1224 TUNICATA. nal tunic or the thorax, which had been smaller than the abdominal or posterior por- tion, was much increased, and far more dia- phanous, and the part occupied by the whitish anterior spot was somewhat elevated in the form of a nipple, marking the future position of the mouth. The obscure circle that sur- rounded the base of the buccal region was now replaced by a very narrow yellow band ; and on the inferior part of this thoracic portion of the body there were observed two yellow lines, vertically dividing it into three nearly equal lobes. The abdominal portion of the internal tunic was, on the contrary, much straitened; the pericardial spot was more dis- tinct; and another less distinctly limited spot, situated more in front, presented apparently the first indication of the stomach. Towards the middle of the second day, the middle lobe of the thorax was much enlarged, and in certain positions of the animal appeared to be formed by a new interior cylindrical sac, which in front united with the anterior wall of the thorax at the point occupied by the yellow ring before described, whilst laterally it was separated from the internal tunic by the spaces corresponding to the lateral lobes already men- tioned. One of these lobes became very much narrowed, and seemed destined to form the great vascular sinus: subsequently, traversing the anterior surface of the thorax, the other lateral lobe appeared to correspond to the future cloaca; and the middle lobe was evi- dently the branchial sac, from the base of which arises the digestive tube. A few hours after, the anterior nipple-like prominence was more salient, and seemed to be contractile. The situation of the stomach and the course of intestine were also distin- guishable in the abdomen {Jig. 784. f). The yellow substance had now in a great degree disappeared, but it was still present in a pretty considerable quantity in the alimentary tube, and appeared to pervade all the interior parts of the young animal. Towards the end of the second day, the bran- chial orifice was easily distinguished at the summit of the thorax, and its margin began to be somewhat crenulated. This orifice, how- ever, was present only in the internal tunic, the tegumentary substance being continued over it without interruption. The nerve-ganglion appeared in the form of a minute tubercle. The yellow line encircling the summit of the thorax appeared as the superior margin of the branchial sac. All the thoracic portion of the body contracted itself from time to time. Lastly, the anal orifice began to be visible. On the third day, the heart was seen to pulsate, and pellets of fecal matter were visi- ble in the intestine. The following day, the mouth opened externally, and the water passed through it to the branchial cavity. About the same time, the integument was perforated also by the anal orifice, from which fecal matter was discharged, provided without doubt by the digestion of nutritive matter furnished by the vitelline mass {fig. 784. g). On the following days, the growth of the young animal was more rapid, its organs became more distinct, and soon afterwards the spiracles of the branchial sac, disposed in transverse rows, were visible, as well as the vibratile movements of the cilia, with which the stigmata are fringed. The number of these rows, however, was but four, the adult animal having ten. The young Amarouchim was now provided with all its necessary organs except those of generation, of which no trace was yet visible, and the future situation of which was occupied by other organs, the heart being close up to the intestinal tube. The general form of the body resembled more that of aDidemnian than of a Polyclinian, for it had as yet no post- abdomen, and the loop of the intestine was folded up against the inferior extremity of the thorax. Lastly, during the succeeding days, the abdomen very much lengthened itself {Jig. 784. h), and at the end of the second week there was present, between the heart and the intestine, a granular mass, which by its ap- pearance and position could readily be re- cognised as the generative organs. With regard to the development of the integument of this, at first solitary, but sub- sequently compound, Ascidian, and which is evidently the analogue of the polypary of the Polypifera, we have mentioned that at first it is a gelatinous layer, surrounding the yolk. An inner membrane, immediately in- vesting the yolk, and regarded as the blasto- derm, becomes the internal tunic of the animal. Whilst the larva goes through its early changes, there appears no connection at all between the inner tunic and the integu- ment. Indeed, says M. Milne-Edwards, the larva may be seen sometimes to be entirely turned round in the cavity of the tegumentary envelope; and sometimes, when it abandons its original position, it forms a kind of hernia on the exterior of this envelope, by distending it at a weak spot {Jig. 784. g). The learned professor does not, however, regard this en- velope as being either a deposit produced by secretion, or as an organised body that had ceased to live since it had ceased to be attached to the interior parts of the animal; because, as he observes, it continues to grow and gives un- mistakable signs of vitality. Thus, not only does its bulk rapidly increase, but it frequently gives rise, as in Amarouchim Nordmanni, to lobe-like expansions, frequently changing their form, contracting and dilating very gently, and appearing to have some analogy to the proteitbrm expansions of the Amcebas and other inferior animals. Of these changes Professor Milne-Edwards has given an inte- resting series of figures. It is only when the mouth and the anus open externally, that an attachment is estab- lished between the integument and the inter- nal tunic of the animal; and then, as through- out its future existence, it is around the two orifices only that organic continuity exists be- tween the two parts, one only of which is in direct relation with the organs of animal life. It is consequently probable that the nutrition