692 SLEEP. was never perceived in the sleep-talking state; and if the interlocutor addressed to her any questions or observations that did not fall in with her train of thought, they were completely disregarded. By a little adroitness, however, she might be led to talk upon almost any subject; a transition being graduallymade from one to another by means of leading questions. The well-known case of the officer, narrated by Dr. James Gregory, is one of the same in- termediate class; rather allied, in our appre- hension, to somnambulism than to ordinary dreaming. This gentleman, who served in the expedition to Louisburgh in 1758, was in the habit of acting his dreams ; and their course could be completely directed by whispering into his ear, especially if this was done by a friend with whose voice he was familiar; so that his companions in the transport were in the constant habit of amusing themselves at his expense. At one time they conducted him through the whole progress of a quarrel, which ended in a duel ; and when the parties were supposed to be met, a pistol was put into his hand, which he fired, and was awakened by the report. On another occasion they found him asleep on the top of a locker or bunker in the cabin, when they made him believe he had fallen overboard, and exhorted him to save himself by swimming. He imme- diately imitated all the motions of swimming. They then told him that a shark was pur- suing him, and entreated him to dive for his life. He instantly did so, with such force as to throw himself entirely from the locker upon the cabin-floor, by which he was much bruised, and awakened of course. After the landing of the army at Louisburgh, his friends found hini one day asleep in his tent, and evidently much annoyed by the cannonading. They then made him believe that he was engaged, when he expressed great fear, and showed an evident disposition to run away. Against this they remonstrated ; but, at the same time, in- creased his fears, by imitating the groans of the wounded and the dying; anil when he asked, as he often did, who was down, they named his particular friends. At last they told him that the man next himself in the line had fallen, when he instantly sprung from his bed, rushed out of the tent, and was roused from his danger and his dream together, by fallingover the tent- ropes. After these experiments, he had no distinct recollection of his dreams, but only a confused feeling of oppression and fatigue; and used to tell his friends that he was sure they had been playing some trick upon him. This is another point of Conformity with somnam- bulism ; one of whose most distinctive pecu- liarities it is, that neither the trains of thought nor any of the events of the somnambulistic state are remembered in the ordinary waking condition, though the impression of the feelings strongly excited during that state, is some- times continued. Both the trains of thought and the events of the somnambulistic state, however, are frequently remembered with the utmost vividness on the recurrence of that state, even at a very distant interval: and of the interval, however long it may have been, there is no consciousness whatever. The same thing, but more rarely, occurs in dreaming ; the dreamer sometimes recollecting a previous dream, and even taking up and continuing its thread, although he could not in the least retrace it in his waking state. A remarkable case of spontaneous somnam- bulism, which occurred within our own ex- perience, will serve to illustrate many of the most characteristic features of the condition in question. The subject of it was a young lady of highly nervous temperament; and the affection occurred in the course of a long and trying illness, in which almost every form of hysteria, simulating tetanus, epilepsy, coma, and paralysis, had successively presented itself. Although natural somnambulism ordinarily arises out of ordinary sleep, yet in this instance the patient usually passed into the somnam- bulistic condition from the waking state; the transition being immediately manifested by the peculiar expression of the countenance. In this condition her ideas were at first entirely fixed upon one subject — tne death of her only brother, which had occurred some years pre- viously. To this brother she had been very strongly attached ; she had nursed him in his last illness ; and it was perhaps the return of the anniversary of his death about the time when the somnambulism first occurred, that gave to her thoughts that particular direction. She talked constantly of him, retraced all the cir- cumstances of his illness, and was unconscious of anything that was said to her which had not direct reference to this subject. On one oc- casion she mistook her sister's husband for her lost brother ; imagined that he was come from heaven to visit her; and kept up a long conversation with him under this impression. This conversation was perfectly rational on her side, allowance being made for the funda- mental errors of her data. Thus, she begged her supposed brother to pray with her ; and on his repeating the Lord's Prayer, she interrupted him after the sentence " forgive us our tres- passes," with the remark, " But you need not [•ray thus; your sins are already forgiven." Although her eyes were open, she recognised no one in this state, not even her own sister, who, it should be mentioned, had not been at home at the time of her brother's illness. On another occasion, it happened that, when she passed into this condition, her sister, who was present, was wearing a locket, containing some of their deceased brother's hair. As soon as she perceived this locket, she made a violent snatch at it, and would not be satisfied until she had got it into her own possession, when she began to talk to it in the most endearing and even extravagant terms. Her recognition of this locket, when she did not perceive that her sister was the wearer of it, was a very curious fact, which may be explained in two ways, each of them in accordance with the known laws of somnambulism. Either the concen- tration of her thoughts on this one subject caused her to remember only that which was