TONGUE. 1137 Circumvallate papilla seen in vertical section, a, Truncated surface, or base of the cone; b, cir- cumvallation; c, raised border. (Mag. 16 diam.) cone is attached. At the attached portion the nerves and vessels enter, and the free trun- cated surface, or base, of the cone is covered with small secondary papilla?, concealed by the epithelium (fig. 754. a) ; the free border is also surmounted by secondary papilla?, so that it is, in fact, a circular compound papilla (c). The circumvallate papilla? possess the utmost irregularity as to size, number, shape, and arrangement. Their number has been much overstated by some anatomists; Cruveilhier gives it as from sixteen to twenty, Marjolin from nine to fifteen, Soemmering from twelve to fourteen, and Meckel from three to twenty. I think the number given by Messrs. Todd and Bowman, as from eight to ten, is much nearer the truth ; certainly, if ten can be counted, they must be considered well deve- loped ; frequently the number is below this — I have seen as few as five, or even four. In size they vary from that of an ordinary fungi- form papilla to upwards of £th of an inch in diameter. They always assume more or less of the V-shaped arrangement, but the per- fection with which the linear series is main- tained, the straightness of the lines that form the angle, and the size of the angle so formed, all vary very much ; I have seen them stretch- ing across from side to side of the tongue, almost in a straight line, with a third arm projecting back from the centre, something like the form of a tripod ; it is not uncommon to find a stray one or two scattered to a great distance beyond the prescribed line; the cen- tral one is frequently thrown back half an inch, and sometimes a lateral one is found Fig. quite at the edge of the tongue. In shape, the varieties are chiefly owing to the relative size and development of the central tubercle and the circular ridge surrounding it. Sometimes one of these parts is suppressed, and then you either get what appears to be a large fungiform papilla, or a set of ridges having something of a circular or quadrilateral ar- rangement, not to be distinguished from the fused rows of conical papilla? which surround the circumvallate on all sides, and which are, in fact, continuations and prolongations of their calices. Haller mentions having seen the circumvallate papilla? in two rows on each side ; I have met with a similar arrange- ment on one side. This appearance may in some degree be accounted for by the supposi- tion that the rows of conical papilla?, among which the large fungiform immediately in front of the circumvallate are planted, have attained a circular or calyx-like arrangement around them ; for a large fungiform papilla?, situated in a calyx so formed, would produce a very perfect papilla circumvallata. This change is just the reverse of that which reduces a cir- cumvallate papilla to a fungiform by the sup- pression of its surrounding ridge, and both, no doubt, are sources of irregularity. These papilla? are supplied by branches from the glosso-pharyngeal nerve, which may be dis- tinctly traced to them ; their vascular supply is abundant, and their epithelium thin and fine, so that during life, and when injected, they appear very red. The fungiform papilla?, as their name indi- cates, have more or less of the form of a sphere supported on a pedicle; this is their typical form, but they often deviate from it ; in size they vary from J„th to 3^th of an inch. They are scattered over the sides and tip of the tongue, and on the dorsum in front of the circumvallate. They may be dis- tinguished from the filiform, among which they are implanted, by their red colour, in which, in the thinness and smooth- ness of the epithelium investing them, and in the abundance of their vascular and nervous supply, they resemble those last de- scribed. When examined microscopically, they are seen to be covered on their sides and summit with secondary papilla? {fig. 755. A), to 755. A, Fungiform papilla, showing the secondaiy papilla? on its surface, and at a the epithelium covering them over. (Mag. 35 diam.) B, Another, with the capillary loops of its simple papillae injected, a, artery; v, vein. The groove around the base of some of the fungiform papilla? is here represented, as well as the capillary loops, c c, of some neighbouring simple papilla?. (Mag. 18 diam.) {After Todd and Bowman.) 4 D