TERATOLOGY. 965 peculiar and sarcastic wit to this absurd aetiology, and gives the very ludicrous ac- count of a surgeon who supposed that the Sireniform monster had been formed during a very difficult delivery. If it is, on the contrary, an original malformation, it may be asked, what can be its remote cause ? Is it the original want of one of the umbilical ar- teries ? I should not think so ; for one of these arteries is also wanting in the variety in which all the parts of the two extremities arc present, and we know that one of them may lie wanting in a completely well-formed child. (See p. 9-18.) Another question is, whether sympodia can be attributed to the coalescence of the inferior extremities (Meckel, Kanim, Boerhave, and Cruveilhier). Neither am I in- clined to adopt this cause. 1. I cannot imagine a coalesence of bones so complete, that through these could be formed one single extremity. 2. It is impossible to explain by it the im- perfect condition of the leg and of the foot in the majority of cases. 3. From such a fusion or coalescence can- not be derived the imperfect state of the rectum, and of the sexual and uropoietic or- gans. It seems to me more probable that sym- podia is due to some original malformation of the pelvis and its viscera, of which the cause remains unknown. The formation of a head solely, of an incomplete trunk without the lower limbs, or of a single inferior ex- tremity, is certainly to be attributed to nothing else but impeded developement. It shows, moreover, that the different parts of the body are quite independent of each other in their original formation. e. Original defective formation of the pelvis. In a well constituted body the pelvis may be originally malformed, as is proved by the ob- liquely narrow pelvis of Nazele, and by the transversely narrow pelvis of Robert; of which malformation the cause is to be found in the imperfect formation of the sacrum. f. Defective developement of the spinal column. This has been principally observed in calves. It is too short, defective, more or less incurvated, and some of the vertebra; fused together. The head is situated at a short distance from the thorax ; the tail and the anus are reflected to the dorsal surface; the pelvis is too narrow, and turned upwards at its posterior part. VII. Defective Formation of the Extremities. The origin of many malformations of the limbs may be referred to the early periods of embryogenesis. But for some of them this is impossible. 1. Want of all the extremities is an arrest of developement at that period, in which the limbs are not yet formed, and in which small tubercles occupy their places. Sometimes the superior extremities only are wanting, which urges the inferior extremities to acquire a sort of dexterity by which they may in some mea- sure supply the place of the superior limbs. Of all the examples which are known of it, that of Thomas Schweicker is the most me- morable. The inferior limbs only are rarely Fig. 624. 3 a 8