823 SUBCLAVIAN ARTERIES. 3 g 4 and the mammary gland. In both these latter situations the arteries in question communi- cate freely with the external thoracic branches of the axillary, thus forming an important connection between the circulation of the in- terior and that of the exterior of the thorax. The terminal branches of the internal mam- mary artery are two in number, viz. internal terminal branch (Ramus ahdominalis) and an external (Arteria musculo-phrenica, Haller). 4. The internal, or the abdominal branch, is the smaller of the two, yet in direction it represents the parent trunk. Having communi- cated with the artery of the opposite side be- hind the xiphoid cartilage, it escapes from the thorax through a small triangular interval between the fibres of the diaphragm, and then immediately enters the sheath of the rectus abdominis, descending between the muscle and the posterior lamina of the sheath. Having arrived opposite the umbilicus, it be- comes distinctly continuous with ascending branches of the internal epigastric artery ; it likewise furnishes many branches to the sub- stance of the rectus muscle, and others which, piercing the sheath, are widely distributed to the broad muscles of the abdomen. 5. The external terminating branch (or the arteria musculo-phrenica), is larger than the internal, from which it separates nearly at right angles, passing almost transversely out- wards in a curved course along the superior line of attachment of the diaphragm to the false ribs. In this course the artery gives off, a. numerous phrenic branches of large size, which enters the diaphragm all along its cos- tal attachment; and b. anterior intercostal branches, which supply the lower intercostal spaces in precisely the same manner as those from the mammary trunk supply the upper, and which have been already described. Varieties. — The mammary artery presents but few varieties either of origin or position ; in 290 out of 297 examinations, this artery occupied its normal position. In one in- stance it arose beneath, in six instances ex- ternal to the scalenus muscle, and in one only of the six was it derived from the axillary artery (Quain). Much more rarely still does the mammary artery deviate in the opposite direction, i.e. inwards; it has, however, been seen to spring from the arch of the aorta, and also from the arteria innominata. Occasionally too it arises in common with the thyroid axis. Two veins (one on either side of it) accom- pany each internal mammary artery ; they are formed by branches corresponding to those given off by the artery, with the exception (according to Cruveilhier) of the vein accom- panying the arteria comes nervi phrenici, which on both sides terminates separately. On the right side the mammary veins open into the commencement of the vena cava; on the left side, they are connected with the corre- sponding vena innominata. " The mammary arteries are remarkable for the number of their inosculations, and for the distant parts of the arterial system which they serve to connect : they anastomose with each other, and their inosculations with the thoracic aorta encircle the thorax. On the parieties of this cavity their branches connect the axillary and subclavian arteries ; on the diaphragm they form a link in the chain of inosculations between the subclavian artery and abdominal aorta ; and in the parieties of the abdomen they form an anastomosis most remarkable for the distance between those vessels which it serves to connect, namely, the arteries of the superior and inferior extremities."* III. Thyroid axis. — This artery springs from the anterior aspect of the subclavian trunk, close to the inner edge of the scalenus anticus muscle, and consequently from the very last portion of the artery in its first stage. The thyroid axis forms a trunk only a few lines in length, which projects forwards and a little upwards : the phrenic nerve is applied against the outer surface of this artery, and still retains the same relation to it, even where the artery arises more externally than usual, as if in such cases the nerve were drawn outwards by the artery. This arrangement was observed where the thyroid axis arose from the third stage of the subclavian. The thyroid axis usually terminates in three branches:— 1. Inferior thyroid artery.—From the thy- roid axis, this branch passes a little upwards, and then turns inwards and backwards, tie- scribing a curve, of which the concavity looks forwards and downwards, corresponding to the carotid sheath. The artery next descends, but soon afterwards inclines upwards and in- wards until it reaches the thyroid body, thus forming a second curve the reverse of the former one, for the concavity of this second curve looks upwards and backwards, and is crossed anteriorly by the recurrent nerve. The anterior relations of this artery are the following :— It is crossed in its first curve, opposite the sixth cervical vertebra, by the sympathetic nerve, which more frequently on the right than on the left side however, joins the middle cervical ganglion in this situation. The inter- nal jugular vein, vagus nerve, and carotid artery, contained in their common sheath, are the next parts which cross the artery ; and lastly, the recurrent nerve, sub-hyoid muscles, and thyroid gland, lie in front of it. The recurrent nerve lies in front of the second curve of the artery. The inferior thyroid artery is posteriorly in relation with the vertebral artery, the longus colli muscle, and the vertebral column ; and, on the left side, with the oesophagus and tho- racic duct. The thoracic duct very frequently passes up behind the inferior thyroid artery to the level of the sixth cervical vertebra, where, bending downwards and forwards, it arches over that vessel and descends in front of it, to terminate in the subclavian vein. * Har rison's Surgical Anatomv of the Arteries. 4th Edition, p. 141. Dublin.