1227 TUNIC ATA. pying the common mass, of which it becomes a new inhabitant. The communication be- tween the mother and the young animal be- comes obliterated ; but for some time yet, all the young individuals growing from the same branch remain united by their pedicle, and it is this union, apparently, that determines their mode of grouping into " systems." * In Di- demnum gelatinosum, the buds growing on these proliferous stolons are very different in appearance from the ova expelled by the animals; for not only did they differ in aspect and form, but their bulk is at first twenty or thirty times less than that of the vitelline mass of the ova. In the Amaroucium proUferum, Milne-Edwards has frequently found on the surface of a rounded mass, formed by a colony of these animals, many little filiform twigs, simple or branched, formed by a prolongation of the common tegumentary substance, and consisting of a tube closed at the end, and enclosing, in its interior, one or more embryos in different states of develop- ment. These young individuals terminated inferiorly by a peduncle, prolonged in form of a slender tube into the common mass, and springing apparently from the abdominal tunic of an adult individual. This mode of propa- gation by buds, which the compound Ascidians possess in common with the Polypifera, is, as we have above described, found in the Clavel- linidce; the only important difference being, that in the latter the tegumentary envelope of the young is not so largely developed as in the Botryllidce, and does not become fused with that of the adults; whence it results that the individuals springing from the same stem remain isolated, instead of being united into a common mass. Anatomy of Pvrosoma. — The common tegumentary mass of Pyrosoma is semitrans- parent, subcartilaginous, toughish, and some- what extensile. The exterior of the hollow, conical, or cylindrical body, formed by the ag- gregation of the individual Pyrosomata, is co- vered with numerous elongated tubercles, of a rather firmer consistence than the rest of the mass. Each of these constitutes one extremity of an individual member of the living group. The opposite extremity opens into the cavity of the cylinder, and is not free, but, like the trunk of the individual's body, is closely connected by the common mass with the similar parts of other individuals lying above, below, and on * M. Savigny figures a nascent system, originated apparently by this grouping of the buds; and Professor Van Beneden coincides -with M. Milne- Edwards in the above view of the subject, but M. Steenstrup expresses his opinion that the mode in which the colonies and systems of the Botryl/idte are formed, is not sufficiently explained by this hypo- thesis; and, although (following Milne-Edwards) lie considers M. Sars to have been misled in re- garding the ova of the Botrylli as producing groups of animals, yet he is inclined to consider this grouping to be really a foetal condition, but occur- ring in some hitherto unnoticed " aggregate " form of animal, produced from the "solitary" larvaj de- scribed by Milne-Edwards, just as the solitary Salpce bring forth Sulpa-chains. either side of it. In some species the animals are arranged much more regularly than in others, and appear to form piled-up rings or circles of individuals, more or less analogous to the otherwise disposed circular systems of some of the Botryllidce. In Pyrosoma atlan- ticum the tubercles are simply conical, and are perforated terminally. In P. elegans, also, the external orifice of the individual opens at the extremity of the tubercle, and through it the water contained in the great cylinder has been seen to escape freely in little jets, when the Pyrosome has been taken out of the sea. In P. giganteum the tubercles are of various sizes, some being short and indistinct, and others, on the contrary, very much deve- loped. The largest are conico-cylindrical flat, and lanceolate at the extremity, with the minute branchial orifice on the inferior aspect. This lanceolate extremity is crenulated on its sharp edges, and presents on its inferior aspect, between its point and the aperture, a slightly prominent keel. The branchial orifice is sometimes surrounded by a slight, free, crenu- lated membrane. The interior of the great cavity is generally smooth. Its walls are perforated by the numerous minute anal orifices of the com- ponent individuals ; and, at a slight depth, its surface is studded with a great number of yellowish, rose-coloured, or carmine spots, which are the hepatic and other visceral organs of the numerous animals. The ter- minal aperture of the large, conical, compound body of the Pyrosoma has, according to Le- sueur and Savigny, a membranous border, which can be sometimes drawn together so as to close the cavity ; and Mr. F. D. Bennett observed that, when first removed from the sea, the broader extremity of the cylinder pre- sented a wide and circular orifice, forming nearly a continuous surface with the central tube ; but when the animal was kept in a vessel of sea-water, or much handled, this orifice was closed by the contraction of a smooth, dense membrane at its margin, and which either obliterated the aperture, or left but a minute central orifice; water at the same time being contained in the barrel or tube of the body. Besides the common envelope or test, each individual animal has an inner tunic or man- tle. This is a very thin, delicate membrane, attached apparently at four points only, two of which are at the extremities; that is, at the branchial and anal orifices ; and the other two are at two rounded, compressed bodies, one on either side, just beyond the anterior mar- gin of the branchice, and regarded by Savigny as ovaries. The branchice line the inner surface of this inner tunic. They are oval in form, and their dorsal borders meet each other, and are at- tached along the dorsal aspect of the mantle ; but they are separated, at their anterior and ventral borders, by a considerable space, which is partly occupied by the ventral sinus {Jig. 786. i,i). The branchial tissue is traversed by numerous vessels anastomosing with each