VARIETIES OF MANKIND. 1318 several races, and in the extraction (so to speak) of their respective mental and moral characters, from their habits of life, their languages, and their religious observances. It is his business to inquire how far one com- mon psychical character can be inferred from such diverse manifestations ; that is, how far the differences which he cannot but observe in intellectual capacity, and in moral and even instinctive tendencies, are fixed and per- manent, or are liable to spontaneous variation, or to alteration from the modifying influence of education and other external conditions. The physical geographer lends his aid, by bringing to bear upon the inquiry his know- ledge of the outward circumstances under which these variations in bodily and mental constitution are most constantly found. And it is from the materials which he contributes, that the physiologist and the anatomist have to determine the degree in which these cir- cumstances can be justly considered as the causes of variation; and, more especially, whether the coincidences between particular bodily configurations or mental constitutions, and certain combinations of climatic and geo- logical conditions, are the result of induced differences among the human races which are respectively subject to the latter, or are to be attributed to the implantation of originally dissimilar stocks in the respective localities in which their descendants are now found. But in order to carry on these researches, the information of the historian is continually needed, on the actual descent, migrations, conquests, &c. of the nations whose physical and mental characters we are comparing. The question of the fixity of all or any of the characters by which the races of mankind are at present distinguished from each other, requires for its solution a comparison of the present with the past. No valid proof of their permanence can be drawn from the limited experience of a few generations; and no evidence of change can be reasonably looked for, except under the long-continued agency of modifying causes. The required information is sometimes supplied by direct historical testimony ; but this is frequently insufficient, and recourse must be then had to the philologist, who derives from the compara- tive study of the languages of different tribes, most important evidence as to their degree of filiation, and thus extends, combines, and con- firms the indications, which the historian had drawn from other sources. Independent of the aid which philological research affords to other departments of ethnology, it directly bears upon the great problem of the unity or identity of mankind ; for it not only answers a common purpose with historical testimony, in establishing the genealogical relations of tribes long since dispersed from their original centres, and separated at present by strongly- marked physical and psychical differences ; but it also affords important evidence as to the fundamental similarity, if not identity, of the primitive stocks. It is obviously impossible to enter at any length into any one of these topics of inquiry, within the limits of the present article ; and all that will be here attempted, will be to place before the reader a general resume of the whole subject, carrying out those portions into some- what more of detail, in which the anatomist and physiologist are most concerned. The question at issue has usually been con- sidered under the simple aspect of specific unity or diversity; — that is, in the first place, whether all the existing races may be sup- posed to be the descendants of one pair of "protoplasts ;" all their diversities in physical conformation, in language, in mental character, and in social condition, having since arisen ; — or whether, secondly, the existing races must be regarded as having sprung from several distinct pairs of protoplasts ; which originally presented differences amongst themselves, nearly the same with those which now exist amongst the races that seem most remote from each other. Now the first of these suppositions requires that evidence should be given of a very considerable amount of vari- ability from the original type (whatever that may have been) amongst the descendants from the common ancestry : whilst the second is based on the idea, that the leading characters which now separate the different races are per- manent, and must have been presented by their original progenitors. A third supposition, which has been put forward within the last few years, regards the existing races as not all proceeding from one pair of " protoplasts," but from several; but considers that these, though scattered over the globe, were funda- mentally similar in corporeal and mental con- stitution, and differed only in the adaptation of certain of their physical characters to the different circumstances of their several abodes, — thus being all comprehensible within the limits of one species,— and all possessing, too, a certain capacity for variation, which has been manifested in the production of subor- dinate diversities, and has even proceeded, in some instances, under the prolonged influence of change of climate, civilization, &c, to soften down, if not entirely to obliterate, the original differences. On the general bearing of the last of these hypotheses, a few remarks seem called for. Although the same affinity or blood-rela- tionship would not exist between the de- scendants of several distinct pairs of " proto- plasts," as between those of a common ancestry, yet the moral relations between them would be as close as on the supposition of their consanguinity. For, as has been justly observed, " the moral rights of men depend on their moral nature; and while Africans have the hearts and consciences of human beings, it could never be right to treat them as domestic cattle or as wild fowl, if it were ever so abundantly demonstrated that their race was but an improved species of ape, and ours a degenerate kind of god."* This view has recently been very forcibly * New Quarterly Review, No. XV. p. 131.