THORAX. 10G6 anteriorly, left white, — the reserve volume, or latitude of movement appropriated for dis- placing that air left in the lungs at the end of an ordinary expiration; the black stripe next anteriorly represents the mobi- lity for commanding the volume of breathing air; and lastly, beyond this another white stripe shows the extreme limit of inspiration or thoracic mobility commanding the com- plemental volume of air. These last three — viz. the complemental, breathing, and reserve volumes conjointly—we style vital capacity. The absolute capacity may be considered as all the divisions combined in one. Whatever limits the mobility of the thorax must modify the volume of air respired. This applies to any or all of the above movements. Therefore the measure of the volume of air displaced becomes a measure of the thoracic mobility ; and as disease affects the mobility of the chest, the measure of the volume of respired air becomes a measure of disease. The residual volume is entirely independ- ent of the will, and always present in the chest. The reserve volume, to use a simile, is a " tenant at will.'' The breathing volume is constantly passing out and in, many times a minute. The complemental volume is seldom in the chest, and then only for a very brief period. Whatever be the breathing volume ne- cessary for our well-being, the mobility demanded to maintain it is an intermediate mobility, just as the dark stripe in fig. 703. is intermediate between the white stripes ; so that at both ends of the ordinary breathing mobility there exists a spare mobility, which we can command into action according to the necessities required. This reserve and com- plemental mobdity may be looked upon as a broad, spare margin which encompasses our breathing ; so that any sudden exertion may not (as it otherwise would) produce painful dyspnoea and premature death. This spare mobility, therefore, is always ready to admit of irregularities in the ordinary breathing, such as frequent or infrequent,quick or slow, regular or irregular, great or small, equal or unequal, easy or difficult, complete or incomplete, long or short, abdominal or costal; as in coughing, running, laughing, crying, sing- ing, sighing, and vociferating, many of which arc but extensions or modifications of the or- dinary mobility, infringing upon this margin — the complemental or reserved mobility. This spare mobility is not only ready for such exigencies as above mentioned, but it becomes a reservoir for "times of need." Thus a man can take from 230 to 300 cubic inches of fresh air into his kings, and live upon it without inconvenience for two minutes with- out breathing. * The knowledge of this fact * It is better to inspire and expire forcibly five or six times, cleansing the lungs of the old air, and then give one deep inspiration, and there hold. For the first lo seconds a giddiness will be ex- perienced ; but when this leaves us, we feel not the would be of much use towards rescuing a fellow creature from suffering amidst dense smoke or in an irrespirable atmosphere, as is found sometimes in mines and wells. A variation of this condition was once wit- nessed when Mr. Brunei descended to ex- amine the breach which the river had made in the Thames Tunnel. Having lowered the diving-bell nearly 30 feet to the mouth of the opening, this was found too narrow to admit the bell; so that no further observation could be made upon the workings, which were about 8 feet or 10 feet deeper: Mr. Brunei, therefore, laying hold of a rope, left the bell, and dived himself down the opening. His companions in the bell, being alarmed at the length of his stay, now about two minutes, gave the signal for pulling up ; and the diver, unprepared for the signal, had hardly time to catch the rope, which he had let go, and was surprised to find, on coming into the bell, that he had remained below so long. On descending again, he found that he could with ease remain fully two minutes under water. In this case the atmosphere, under a pressure of 30 feet of water, charged the lungs with nearly a double volume of air compressed into the same bulk as one volume at the surface of the water. Our ordinary breathing volume can only supply us for from three to five seconds ; for if we suddenly stop breathing for that time, we experience a degree of inconvenience. Of the volumes of air expelled from the lungs. — A knowledge of this is of incalcu- lable value to the physician and to the surgeon ; for disease cannot attack the lungs or the thoracic boundaries, without diminishing the respiratory volume, which change ultimately leads to the variations of the respiratory murmurs, first noticed as a diagnostic sign of disease by Laennec. Many experimenters have measured the different volumes of re- spired air, not primarily in reference to disease, but merely as collateral to the ob- servations of the chemist: hence experiments have been few, and deductions highly dis- crepant. (a) Residual volume.—Dr. Hales notices this volume, but assigns no measure for it*; Allen and Pep}s estimate it at 108 cubic inches in stout men of 5 feet 10 inchesf ; Davy at 41 cubic inches J ; Goodwyn, by the mean of seven experiments, at 108 cubic inches; Kite, who writes expressly upon submersion, is obscure upon this point §; Dr. Bostock allows 120 cubic inches || ; Duuglison gives Menzie's estimate of 179 cubic inches ; Jurin estimates it at 220 cubic inches ; Fontana at 40; and Cuvier at from slightest inconvenience for want of air; and two minutes of time can be passed through without breathing. The most expert pearl-divers cannot re- main under water for a longer time. * Stat., vol. i., p. 239. t Phil. Tr., 1809., vol. xcix. pp. 404. 428. { Chem. and Phil. Remarks, p. 410. § Essays and Obs. Physical and Med. 1795, p. 8, || E. Phys. 3d. Ed. p.'318.