SLEEP. 687 equally injured by it ; in fact, being possessed with the belief that they are not suffering from the exertion, they frequently protract it until a sudden and complete prostration gives a fearful demonstration of the cumulative effects of the injurious course in which they have been persevering. Those, consequently, who are earlier forced to give way, are fre- quently capable of accomplishing more in the end. In regard to the degree of protraction of sleep which is consistent with a healthy state of the system in other respects, it is difficult to speak with certainty. Of the numerous well-authenticated instances on record*, in which sleep has been continuously prolonged for many days or even weeks, it is enough here to state that they cannot be regarded as examples of natural sleep ; the state of such persons being more closely allied to hysteric coma. An unusual tendency to proper sleep generally indicates a congested state of the brain, tending to apoplexy; and it has been stated that apoplexy has been actually induced by the experimental attempts to ascertain how large a proportion of the diurnal cycle might be spent in sleep. This effect may be readily explained, if we regard it as a general law of the capillary circulation, that its rate is increased by functional activity, and diminished by inactivity ; for whilst congestion of the brain arising from other causes will tend to produce sleep, through the augmented pres- sure it occasions, mental inactivity, if en- couraged and persisted in, will itself tend to produce congestion. Thus, on either side, inattention to the dictates of Nature in respect to the amount of sleep required for the renovation of the system, becomes a source of disease, and should therefore be carefully avoided. DREAMING. We have hitherto spoken of sleep in its most complete or profound form, — that is, the state of complete unconsciousness. But with the absence of consciousness of external things, there may be a state of mental activity, of which we are more or less distinctly conscious at the time, and of which our subsequent remem- brance in the waking state also varies in com- pleteness: the impression being sometimes vivid, definite, and enduring; sometimes shadowy and evanescent; sometimes not amounting to more than the feeling that we have dreamed ; and sometimes not even this being preserved, not- withstanding that there may be positive as- surance that the sleep has been thus disturbed. This state, known as dreaming, is one of the highest interest to the psychologist; but the limits imposed upon us forbid our doing more than enumerate its leading phenomena. The chief feature of the state of dreaming appears to be, that there is an entire absence of voluntary control over the current of thought; so that the principle of suggestion—one thought * Such, for example, as that of Samuel Chilton (Phil. Trans., 1694), and that of Mary Lyall (Trans, of Roy. Soc. of Edinb., 1S18). calling up another, according to the laws of asso- ciation—has unlimited operation. Sometimes the train of thought thus carried on is remark- ably consistent. We witness scenes that have occurred during our waking hours, and seem to hear, see, move, talk, and perform all the actions of life. We may experience every kind of mental emotion, and may even compare, reason, judge, and will, during our sleep; and our reasoning processes have frequently a re- markable clearness and completeness, — the data on which they are founded being sup- posed to be accurate. This consistency is usu- ally the greatest, when the mind simply takes up a train of thought on which it had been engaged during the waking hours, not long previously ; and it may even happen that, in consequence of the freedom from distraction occasioned by the suspension of ordinary sen- sations, the intellectual operations may be carried on during sleep with uncommon vigour and success. Thus, to name only two instances, Condorcet saw, in his dreams, the final steps of a difficult calculation, which had puzzled him during the day; and Condillac states that, when engaged with his " Cours d'Etude," he frequently developed and finished a subject in his dreams, which he had broken off before retiring to rest. The imagination, equally with the reasoning processes, sometimes moves in a consistent course. Thus, Dr. Good relates the case of a friend who composed a little ode of about six stanzas, and set the same to agreeable music, in his sleep, the impression remaining so vividly that he was able to write down both the words and music on awaking in the morning ; and Coleridge relates of himself that his fragment, entitled " Kubla Khan," was composed during sleep, which had come upon him whilst reading the passage in " Purchas's Pilgrimage" on which the poetical description is founded, and was written down immediately on awaking. The images, he says, " rose up before him as things, with a parallel production of the correspondent expressions, without any sensation or con- sciousness of effort." It would seem ne- cessary, in most cases of this kind, that the results should be committed to paper imme- diately on waking, before the train of thought, continued from the dream, has been disturbed by any other. Thus, Coleridge tells us that, after having written for some little time, he was interrupted by a person on business, who continued with him above an hour; and on the departure of his visitor, he found, to his surprise and mortification, that "though he still retained some vague and dim recollection of the general purport of the vision, yet, with the exception of some eight or ten scattered lines and images, all the rest had passed away like the images on the surface of a stream into which a stone had been cast; but, alas ! without the after-restoration of the latter." In other cases, a strong general impression of what has passed through the mind in sleep may remain on waking, without power of recalling the par- ticulars. This was the case in the well-known instance of the musician Tartini, to whom the