1121 TONGUE. terior surface of the epiglottis, the sides of the pharynx, and upwards to the soft palate and posterior parts of the cheeks. As we proceed forwards we find it investing the sides, and gradually more and more of the under surface, reflected thence over the hyoglossi and ge- nioglossi muscles, the sublingual glands, vessels, and nerves, and much areolar tissue, which separate it from the mylohyoid muscle, to the inner surface of the alveoli of the lower jaw, where it becomes continuous with the mucous membrane covering the gums. At certain points where this membrane leaves the tongue it forms distinct folds, which, from their being constant, have received par- ticular names, and which act to a certain ex- tent as ligaments or frena of the tongue, not so much by virtue of their being folds of mucous membrane, as from their containing within their reduplications a certain amount of a more or less unyielding tissue ; in some this tissue is a mixture of white and yellow fibre, in others it is muscle. Of the first sort are three folds, a middle and two lateral, passing from the base of the tongue to the epiglottis, called the glosso- epiglottid folds, of which the central, which is always present, and has been called the pos- terior franum of the tongue, and frcenum epi- glottitis, is much the most considerable (fig. 745. d.) : they serve rather to check the move- ments of the epiglottis than as lingual liga- ments. From the sides of the base of the tongue, passing thence to the soft palate, are seen four more folds, two on each side, which, from their position, have been called the pillars of the fauces. They are formed by the raising of the mucous membrane from the general surface by two muscles: the posterior, the least considerable, by the palato-pharyn- geus; the anterior, more marked, by the palatoglossus. The interval between these two is called the amygdaloid fossa, from its being occupied by the amygdalae, or tonsils : the anterior pair taken together constitute the constrictor of the fauces, and the narrowing caused by the whole apparatus has received the name of the isthmus faucium. From the basis of these folds being muscular their pro- minence is liable to constant variety. But the most considerable of these folds, which is called,par excellence, the frcenum oftkc tongue (frcenum, frenulum linguce), is placed beneath the anterior free extremity, which it connects with the lower jaw. It consists of a prolonga- tion forwards, beyond the free border of the genioglossi, of the median fibrous lamina, which raises into a prominent fold the mucous membrane passing from the under surface of the anterior part of the tongue to the neigh- bouring alveoli of the lower jaw: it forms a strong ligament, and limits the backward movement of the anterior extremity of the tongue. Sometimes an extreme shortness of this ligament is a congenital malformation, preventing the free movement of the organ, and so impairing speech, mastication, &c, as to necessitate the operation known as cutting the tongue. VOL. IV. Before entering into the specialities of the anatomy of the tongue, let us examine its Human tongue viewed on the upper surface or dorsum. (After Soemmering.') general configuration and external characters, taking its surfaces, extremities, &c, in the order above enunciated. Superior surface.— On regarding the upper surface of the tongue, we see first that it is divided into two symmetrical portions by a median longitudinal furrow (fig. 745. c), com- mencing at the tip, and extending back about two thirds the length of the organ. It is superficial when present, but in many cases does not exist : it is the representative, in this part, of that median line which symmetrically divides all those organs of animal life that are situated in the middle vertical plane. It is very generally, but very incorrectly, stated* that this furrow terminates posteriorly in the foramen cacum. The two have no relation; the one often exists without the other ; and in every case that I have seen, the foramen has been separated from the posterior ter- mination of the furrow by the ridge of the circumvallate papillae, sometimes by a long interval. This median furrow seems partly formed by the action of muscles, and partly by a deficiency of papilla. Another con- spicuous character of the upper surface is, that the roughnesses with which it is covered are arranged in lines (fig. 745.), with a direction obliquely forwards and outwards, so * Bichat, Traite d'Anatomie, t. ii. p. 594. 4 c