1419 VESICULA PKOSTATICA. projects very far,behind the urinary bladder. It has the form of a flask, and in its anterior half, which is compressed somewhat flat, it lias a breadth of five to six lines. Its base is bi- lobed, as if drawn out into two lateral short and rounded horns. Its mouth in the uro- genital canal is wide (about one line), yet not round or linear, but rather placed across, and somewhat arched in shape, as if bent around the swelling of the verumontanum. In new- born individuals the organ is much smaller, scarcely three lines long; but it is otherwise exactly similar. In the male hare it is al- ways smaller. In one example it measured five lines, and was devoid of horns at the base ; but these are sometimes little developed in the rabbit also. But the most extraordi- nary circumstance about the utriculus of these animals is this, that it receives the ejaculatory ducts. In all other instances, these open in- dependently, by its sides, into the uro-genital canal ; but here, departing from this rule, they open into the undermost part of the Weberian organ, at a short distance (in the new-born rabbit half a line, in the adult two lines) above its orifice previously described. They occupy the anterior wall of the organ, on which they course downwards, and each terminates in a small papilla. In Lagemis the same arrangement seems to occur. At least Pallas * states of the Lagomis ogstona that the two ejaculatory ducts open together by a common tube, which must doubtless be regarded as a Weberian organ, f Another very remarkable form of Weberian organ is possessed by the beaver. The first information concerning it we owe to Brandt and KatzeburgJ, who compared this struc- ture, on account of its form, to the uterus bicornis of the female individual, yet without recognising any nearer relation between the two. They regarded it as a kind of sup- plementary seminal vesicle. Its correct inter- pretation is due to the acuteness of Weber The Weberian organ is simple only at its lower end, or that which usually opens be- tween the orifices of the two vasa deferentia. Very soon it is split into two horns, which ascend in the peritoneal fold between the two seminal ducts, and finally, after they have dwindled to the form of threads, are apposed to these. Brandt and Ratzeburg were able to follow the terminal threads to the testicles; while in the example which Weber inves- tigated, where the horns measured 2j inches, they ceased much earlier. The lower half of the horn is of very considerable thickness, as * Xov. Spec, quadruped, e, glirium ordine. Erlau- geu, 1778, p. 07. f According to Kymer Jones (loc. eit. p. 393.), the two vasa deferentia in the Agouti also open by a common duct into a cavity of the verumontanum. But since this at the same time receives the excre- tory ducts of the seminal vesicles, it certainly is not the cavity of the Weberian organ. Probably the same structure is repeated here which I formerly* (loc. cit. p. 130.) described iu the Cavia, and have recently found in the Dipus. J Medizinische Zoologie. Band I. S. 137. § Amtlicher Bericht., &c, loc. cit. much as four lines, and it encloses a spacious cavity. Edentata. — The sloth (Bradi/pua tridfic- tyhts), the only animal of this class of Mam- malia whose genitals I was able to examine, is completely devoid of this organ. Paehi/dcrmata—Duvernoy * mentions the Weberian organ in the elephant as a deep, blind sac, which lay concealed in the veru- montanum. In the swine it lias been de- scribed by Weber. It consists here of a hotly, which is nine lines in length anil almost a line in thickness, and which lies in the peritoneal fold between the two ejaculatory ducts. At its upper end it passes on either side into a yet longer but thinner horn. Leydig, who also mentions the opening of this body into the uro-genital canal, states that, when in the inflated condition, it has the thickness of a goose quill. In an adult boar with hypospadias, I found this organ of yet larger size. The opening, which lay between the points of aperture of the two ejaculatory ducts, and hail a length of I-i lines, led into a cylindrical body, which, gradually dilating to some extent as it passed upwards, finally, after a course of fourteen lines, split into two horns. These were placed against the seminal ducts, and, as cords of areolar tissue, could be followed with the cover- ings of those tubes to the testicles. In other instances the Weberian organ of the pig ex- perienced a more considerable reduction. Thus in a new-born individual whom I ex- amined, I found only a single solid cord in the middle line of the peritoneal fold between the vasa deferentia; it had neither cavity nor opening into the uro-genital canal SoUdungula. — The Weberian organ of the horse, w hich is generally of very considerable size, was known to Cuvier f, who referred it to the vesicula seminulis. It has also been fre- quently described and figured by Guilt J as a median seminal vesicle. The first who re- cognised its morphological importance was Hausmann.§ With a reference to the older researches of Weber upon the vesicula pro- statica of man and the beaver, but before this author had published his later observations on the horse, he explained it as the male uterus. And independently of him, Adams || was led to the same result. The Weberian organ of the horse is a wide tube, which opens into the uro-genital canal by a large opening between the two vesiculae seminales, the ejaculatory ducts of which it receives by the constricted neck of its lower extremity. In particular instances this open- ing is, as Leydig observed, divided by a median biidge into two apertures, which lie close to * Cuvier, Lecons d'Anatomie compare'e, nouv. edit. t. viii. p. 210. t Cuvier, Lecons d'Anatomie compare'e, nouv. edit. t. viii. p. 176. % Anatomie der Hussahugethieren, Berlin, 1834, Th. II. S. 99. Anatom. Abbildungen der Haus- siiugethieren, Berlin, 1844, Tab. C9. § According to the communication of Ber-rmnnn. Op. cit. || Loc. cit. p. 152.