TUNIC AT A. 1199 and brown pigment-granules, are round, having a diameter of 0-005'" to 0-01'", or elon- gated, with a diameter of 0-006'" to 0-008'"; others are of a pale colour, and, from the double nuclei and the included cells (2 to 7) seen in some of them, strongly resemble the cartilage-cells of the superior animals. This resemblance is rendered the more strik- ing by the round or elongate form of these cells, by the peculiar arrangement of the en- closed cells, and by the union of some of the mother-cells, in this case generally round and smaller, into groups of two or four. This resemblance, however, is only external, and due only to the fact that the cells increase by formation in the interior, as in cartilage; because more exact observations show that these cells, by further transitions, become identical with the simpler pigment- cells described above, and are only the more developed forms of the latter, the pigment having disappeared by degrees on account of the condition of their growth. The third layer is formed of a yellowish, horny epidermis. The thin hairs which cover the surface of the Cynthia papillata are formed by this and the exterior fibrous layer. At certain spots a bundle of fibres springs up from the plane surface of the latter, which, being coated with the horny epidermis, rises on the surface as small needle-shaped bodies. Where the test of the Cynthia attains a thick- ness of i to \\"' and more, its composition often changes in a remarkable manner {fig. 776.). In this case the epithelium is succeeded Fig. 776. Transverse section of Cynthia papillata, magnified 100 times. {After Liiwig and Kiillilter.') 1, Internal layer of epithelium; 2, second layer, homogeneous, with pigment-cells; 3, third layer, composed of alternate layers of radiating til ires and fibres parallel to the surface of the test; 4, fourth layer, fibres parallel to the surface of the test; 5, spines; a, the thin yellowish outer surface; b, fibrous nuclei. by a clear, homogeneous, structureless mass, of a moderate thickness, with scattered pigment- cells and nuclei. Next is a fine fibrous tissue, composed of a great number of thin layers of circular fibres, without cells or nuclei, and of radiating fibres that unite these layers ; this parses externally into an irregular fibrous tissue, covered with a horny epidermis. Where this peculiar stratification of fibres exists, the test is not separable into laminae, because the radiating fibres firmly connect the thin layers of circular fibres. Treated with hydrochloric acid and with soda, the test of Cynthia is rendered quite white. The pigment-cells, the coloured epi- dermis, the mother-cells, the crystals, the epithelium, the nuclei, and the granules are dissolved, and there remain only the fibres and the homogeneous substance that exists here and there. These two elements, then, are composed of cellulose. The structure of the thick test of the Cyntliia Cunopus is very similar to the above. Interiorly there is an epithelium, then a thick layer of longitudinal and circular fibres, some- what indistinctly stratified, in which, towards the exterior, crystals and largish round bodies, composed apparently of groups of cells, are disseminated; lastly, a thin layer of solid, whitish epidermis, with little conical papillae, usually accompanied by processes from the fibrous layer. The thick fibrous layer, only, resists the action of hydrochloric acid and of soda ; all the rest is dissolved without any residue. Cynthia pomaria presents, as the chief ma- terial of its test, a layer of fibres similar to those previously described, having chiefly a longitudinal direction. Between the fibres are crystals, round pigment-cells, measuring OOOV'to 0-006"', and further, here and there, peculiar elongated cells, filled with yellow granules, measuring 0-008'" and more. In- ternally, and adhering to the fibrous layer, is a simple epithelium, with polygonal cells that have diameters of 0-006'" to* 0-008'". This adheres to the inner tunic by means of mus- cular fibres. Externally the fibrous layer is covered by a yellowish, solid layer of unde- termined structure. In the interior parts of the fibrous layer occurs a somewhat large number of peculiar cells, apparently not ana- logous to any other of animal or vegetable structure. These cells are primitively similar to pigment-cells, and round, but possessing a thicker membrane, and without any apparent nucleus. Subsequently they grow, preserving their shape, to the size of 0-01'". The mem- brane at the same time continues to thicken, so much so that the cavity of the cell increas- ing but slightly, the membrane attains a thick- ness of 0-004'". Lastly, the size of the cell increases to 0-02'" and the thickness of the membrane to 0-006'". Whilst this develop- ment is going on, fine lines are observable in the thickened cell-membrane, and ultimately the membrane is transformed into fibres, so that one may see the moderately sized cells in their cavities, and yet occupied by pigment