SPLEEN. 790 penis. Special cells or cavities do not exist. So far J. Miiller. If we now ask ourselves the reason of these important differences be- tween these two authors cited, one of whom affirms the continuation of the tufts in the pulp, and a connection of Malpighian cor- puscles with arteries and venous interstices only ; while the other denies all this, we shall find it not very difficult to give an answer. Giesker, in his description, limited himself to the appearances met with in the human subject, while J. Miiller made the pig and the ox the basis of his delineation. This circumstance will at least partially explain the want of corre- spondence in the two descriptions ; for 1 find that between the spleen of man and that of the animals mentioned considerable differences exist. In man, at least generally, the arteries to- gether with the veins pass deeply into the substance of the spleen, lying in the same sheath with them, and exactly following their course. According to Giesker, the two classes of vessels accompany each other even to their final ramifications; but this is not correct. In every spleen instances occur, which are easily seen, where small veins and arteries lie very close to each other ; and Giesker has evidently allowed himself to regard these par- ticular instances as the rule, and has ex- tended it as a description to the smallest branches of vessels. But if an arterial and venous primary branch be successively fol- lowed to their minutest ramifications, it will be seen that, sooner or later, every artery and vein, without exception, separate from each other, and follow their special path. It is not at all unusual to find this even with arteries from \ to 1 line in diameter, but it is always the case with those of from 1-10th of aline. In such an instance the artery, setting out alone, does not perforate the sheath in which it hitherto lay, but takes with it a distinct yet often inseparable covering of the same; so that from this point forwards a special and se- parate venous and arterial sheath exist. And in man the Malpighian corpuscles lie only on these isolated arteries ; a state which Mal- pighi and Miiller had already described in Mammalia. As regards the other circumstances of the arteries, I have found them exactly as Miiller describes them in the lower animals. After the smaller branches of the arteries are connected with the Malpighian corpuscles, they enter into the red spleen substance, and immediately upon this each small trunk spreads out in the shape of a tuft into a large number of yet finer arte- ries (Jig. 523, d.) ; and these tufts or pencils of arteries, lying in great numbers close to each other, give to the terminations of the arterial trunks a very beautiful appearance, which may be best compared to the broad crown of a (pollard) tree. These separate tufts, dividing and diminishing in size yet more, terminate by an immediate transition into the true capillaries ; which, in a more and most minute form of 3 to 5-1000ths of a line, constitute a close and beautiful network in the separate portions of the pulp, and in those parts of it which sur- round the Malpighian corpuscles ; although they do not form a special vascular covering for the same. Many authors seem to deny the existence of capillaries in the spleen : thusEngel* has lately altogether denied them; but this is quite erroneous. They may easily be seen in the pulp of the human spleen, by the aid of the microscope, both empty and filled with blood, and exhibit themselves as in no way different from the capillaries of other organs ; and the finest of them have a dia- meter of only 3-1000ths of a line. J. Miiller is also in error when he describes the arteries as coursing through the coats of the Mal- pighian corpuscle, since they always pass on its exterior. Finally, Giesker is wrong in describing the arterial pencils as spreading themselves out on the Malpighian corpuscle, and here becoming continuous with the veins ; even in man it is not difficult to discover that the pencils only begin beyond the corpuscles, that they lie in the pulp, and that it is here they first break up into capillaries. Giesker at least partially agrees with this statement when he says f that the pulp con- sists of nothing but the minutest arteries and veins united by fibrous tissue. The sheaths of the vessels above described are just as much more delicate as are the vessels themselves, and they are finally lost as distinct coats on the capillaries ; here they form delicate fibrous membranes which connect the capillaries to- gether, and under this form they pass through the whole of the pulp. As to the veins, I must first, with Giesker, express myself in the most decided manner against all the more ancient and modem ana- tomists who suppose and describe venous spaces (sinus venosi) in the human spleen. I have bestowed the greatest attention to the dilated commencements of the veins in ques- tion, and it was only my own researches that led me to renounce the opinion that these dilatations really exist; indeed I have never been able to discover anything special or ex- traordinary about these veins. Firstly, as to the larger veins, which are as yet accom- panied by the arteries, there is nothing very remarkable about them, with the exception of their considerable size, which has been already mentioned. They all have a membrane which is continuous with that of the smaller veins, and is least separable on that side with which the artery is in contact; this membrane is only distinguishable from the sheath of the vessels by its greater delicacy, and in com- pany with this sheath it gradually diminishes its thickness. Orifices of the smaller veins, constituting the so-called stigmata Malpighi, are present in very small numbers in the larger veins ; while, on the other hand, they are somewhat more frequent in the smaller of the vessels in question. When the veins * Zcitschrift der Gesellschaft der Aerzte in Wien, 1847. t Loc. cit. S. 166.