U92 VOICE. clora of motion to inferior ligaments. Voice acute. Fig. 904-. I, 2. 1. Larynx- of the Ralibit laid open. 2. Side view of the same, externally, a, epiglottis ; b, thyroid; d, cricoid; e, crico-thy- roid ligament; e, trachea. Hystrix cristnta. Porcupine.—Vocal liga- ments absent. Ventricles of Morgagni none. Voice mute. Castor Fiber. The Beaver.—Larynx : II. 0-4.5 in. Epiglottis triangular, having a vertical raphe upon its posterior surface terminating in a sac bordered by the vocal ligaments. Arytenoids small and conical. Vocal cords : L. 0 25 in. Trachea 22 rings. Voice acute. Mus Rattus. See details by Wolff. Edentata. Ornithorynchus paradoxus.— (Fig. 905.) Larynx : H. '6 in. Thyroid : wings united at an obtuse angle ; body partly cartila- ginous, and partly osseous ; supports laterally two transverse osseous processes f f, at the bases of which are two curved cartilaginous appendices. Cricoid elliptical. Arytenoid triangular. Ventricles not deep. A sulcus, d d, lies between superior ligament and cri- coid cartilage.* Epiglottis : apex acute, a. Trachea 15 rings. Armadillo,—Epiglottis bilobed. Voice mute. Bradypus tridactylus or Sloth.— Larynx: Cart, of Santorini and superior vocal cords absent. Ventricles a mere impression. Infe- rior vocal ligaments free. Trachea convoluted. Voice a plaintive melody, consisting of an ascending and descending scale of the hexa- chord.f Pachydermata. Equus.—H. 1-85. Thy- roid: wings united at an acute angle, and notched below to the pomum. Cricoid: margins, superior deflected inwards. Crico-thy- roid chink inclined both vertically and horizon- tally. Arytenoids large; bases deflected from each other, by which the glottis is always kept open. Cart, of Santorini curved or hook-like * This is described by Blainville, but Meckel seems not to have observed it. f Bingley, An. Biog. bases fixed to the arytenoids. L. 2 in. Supe- rior vocal ligaments not prominent. Ventricles of Morgagni oval, deep, cc(fig. 906) Epiglottis Fig.. 905. A view of the internal mechanism of the Larynx oj Ornithorynchus paradoxus. a, epiglottis; b, superior vocal cords; c, inferior vocal cords ; d, sulcus ; f, -transverse osseous processes; g, spines of transverse processes; e, trachea. triangular, a; at the base two processes* con- nect it with the arytenoids. Between the com- missure of vocal ligaments and epiglottis there is an oval cavity, c; and on the posterior sur- face of the epiglottis a groove, furnished at its base with a semilunar membrane.\ Trachea 52 rings. Voice, the nei<ih, which is well known, but not easily described. Herrissant has exaggerated, as Cuvier states, the office of the semilunar membrane in the production of this singular sound. Asinus vulgaris.—Larynx : H. 1-95 in. Thy- roid : wings united at an obtuse angle. Cricoid elliptical. Crico-thyroid chink not large. Epi- glottis : apex obtuse a (fig. 906.) ; at its base an arched cavity, 6, in which the vocal ligaments are inserted. On each side of this cavity c, c, are two circular apertures, which lead to two large sacs situated behind the mucous mem- brane between the vocal ligaments and inter- nal surface of the thyroid. L. T275 in. Tra- chea: rings spiral. Voice : quality discordant; range about 5 tones. The bray is well known. J Mule.—Laryngeal cavities similar to those in the ass. Voice, a species of bray resem- bling the voice of the ass, rather than that of the horse. * These are the horns of the epiglottis of Casse- rius. t The semilunar membrane of Herrissant. | According to Herrissant, the edge of the arched cavity causes the peculiar timbre of the voice of the ass, and acts like the semilunar membrane in the neigh of the horse ; both these hypotheses, how- ever, are extremely doubtful ; the sac mentioned in the text doubtless contributes largely to the produc- tion of the braying of the ass. During the bray an acute sound accompanies the inspiratory movement of the thorax.