779 SPLEEN. the greatest quantity, and are most easily seen. The constant and essential elements of the splenic vesicles are cells, with a single nucleus of a spherical shape, and from 3 to 5-1000ths of a line in diameter: besides these, free nuclei, and larger cells of G-1000-ths of a line in diameter, and with one or two nuclei, also occur (Jig. 529.). The cells are in general pale and faintly granular; their nuclei are from 16 to 25-10000ths of a line in size, spherical, apparently homogeneous, and with a rather dark margin ; or frequently vesicular, with a more or less distinct nucleolus and other granules. It is not infrequent to see Fig. 529. Elements of the Malpighian corpuscles of the Ox, mag- nified 350 diameters. a, smaller cells ; h, larger cells ; c, free nuclei. single cells provided with dark fatty granules, and in particular instances blood discs are present, either changed or unchanged, free or included in cells. The free nuclei are of the same size as those contained in cells, and are also, in other respects, quite similar to them. In the ordinary method of examining the Malpighian corpuscles, the quantity of thcW nuclei seems larger than it really is, since many of the cells burst, and allow their nu- cleus to escape. Yet it is very remarkable that their number is very variable in the most cautious examination, a fact which appears to me partly to account for the very different statements of different observers. In many cases it has happened to me to find only a few free nuclei, often none at all, while in other instances they constitute a half or more of the elements of the corpuscles. This fact, taken together with the often very different size of the cells present, sepms to prove that a continuous process of cell-growth exists in the Malpighian corpuscles ; in such wise, that new nuclei and cells continually arise, and old cells perish. But hereof more will be said in speaking of the pulp, in which the same pro- cess obtains. If, after these remarks, we take a glance at the import of the Malpighian corpuscles, we shall be compelled especially to ask ourselves, first, whether they are the beginnings of the lymphatics, or in any other way connected with them ? and, secondly, whether they have the import of glandular vesicles ? A connection of the Malpighian corpuscles with the lymphatics was a belief of many anato- mists in earlier times, and in our own days has been recently upheld by Giesker, Huschke, Gerlach, and Poelmann. The acceptors of such a theory rest mainly on conjecture, but partially also on facts. Amongst the latter, there may be mentioned — 1. The cor- respondence of the cells in the Malpighian corpuscles with the lymph corpuscles. But we must remember that cells which cor- respond with the lymph corpuscles occur in many other situations where no such connec- tion with the lymphatics can be imagined, as in the spleen-pulp itself, in the pancreas, in the salivary glands, the glands of mucous mem- brane, the thymus, thyroid, &c. 2. Huschke adduces the similarity of the spleen vesicles with the whitish granules of the lymphatic glands, which are dilatations of the lymphatic vessels themselves. Against this it need only be objected, that this latter is a pure fiction of Buschke's, and that even were it as he states, no conclusion concerning the nature of the Malpighian corpuscles could fairly be deduced from it. I have yet further to men- tion, that, according to an oral communica- tion of Ecker which was made to me many- years ago, and recently repeated, concerning the splenic vesicles of the mammalia, processes and pedicles exist which are neither blood- vessels nor partitions, and, therefore, may be lymphatics, — a view with which Poehnann's and Gerlach's recent statements are some- what in unison. The former of these two* says that he followed the thoracic duct even to the Malpighian corpuscles, with which it became connected; but he does not specify more exactly the nature of this connec- tion. The latter says that it has often seemed to him as if the neighbouring Mal- pighian corpuscles communicate with each other through .special tubes; that he has been led to this belief by the circumstance that when the vesicles are compressed, their con- tents are expelled in definite directions, which a closer examination shows to be canals, the coats of which tolerably resemble in texture those of the Malpighian corpuscle ; and that it is thence clear that the corpuscles communicate with a system of tubes which can scarcely be imagined to be any thing else than the lymphatics. And thus, if the Mal- pighian corpuscles are dilatations of the lymphatics, they may possibly be commenced as simple varicose swellings, or, what is more probable, as lateral productions of these vessels. I acknowledge that I am unable to verify this fact last adduced, or to subscribe to this connection of the Malpighian cor- puscles with the lymphatics. In my researches I have given an attention to this point con- formable to its great importance ; and although I have not seen the commencement of the lymphatics in the spleen, yet I have so far come to a positive conclusion, that I am con- vinced of the complete closure of the Mal- pighian corpuscles. What Gerlach states of the tubes into which the contents of the cor- puscles are forced, is altogether erroneous; such tubes nowhere exist. Gerlach appears to have been misled to this opinion by the fact, that when a corpuscle is burst by pres- sure, the contents rush out at several points, * Annates et Bulletin de la Socie'te' de Medicine de Gaud, 184G, p. 2G7.