1389 VEIN. of the bodies of the vertebrae remarkable plexuses exist. (Fig. 87 I.) Fig. 871. Diploic Veins in a Vertebra, a, great anterior spinal veins,; b, posterior spinal veins ; c, transverse branches ; d, vena? basis ver- tebrarum; e, vein on the surface of the body of the vertebra. {After Breschet.) Fig. 872. Parietal Bone of Foetus at nine months, exhibiting the veins. {After Breschet") IV. Function of Veins. — In function veins may be considered as having a triple office : they are passive organs of circulation ; they are diverticula or reservoirs for blood ; and they are agents of absorption. Circulation in the veins consists of the passive and equable transmission of blood along their tubes. " When we consider the great size of the veins, compared with the arteries, we must conclude that the blood flows but slowly in the venous system ; that, from the narrowness of the trunks of the veins near the heart, the blood must be ac- celerated as it approaches the heart ; and that receiving the impulse from the ventricle, it must take a rapid course through the arteries, until, again approaching the extreme branches of the arteries, and passing into the veins, its motion becomes more languid and slow. In youth, as the size of the veins is not in so great a proportion to the arteries as in advanced life, the blood must be in more rapid circulation : but in old age, owing to the largeness of the veins and the accu- mulation of blood in them, it moves slowly through the venous system, and is almost stagnant in the dilated veins and in the sinuses. " There is no pulsation to be observed in the veins, but what they receive from con- tiguous arteries. There is no pulsation in the veins because they are removed from the heart ; because they do not receive the shock of the heart's action in their trunk, but only by their widely-spread branches ; because the contraction of the heart and of the arteries so alternate with each other, as to keep up a perpetual and uniform stream of blood into the veins." (Sir C. Bell's Anatomv, vol. ii. p. 284.) As diverticula and reservoirs of blood the veins must be considered as performing a most important service in the ceconomy of the cir- culation. There are numerous circumstances both in health and disease which either tem- porarily or permanently disturb the balance of, the circulation, and thereby displace and choke up large quantities of blood ; and, were it not for the reservoirs, diverticula, and lateral compensating channels, which are afforded by large, bulging, and dilatable veins, by the enor- mous area of the common venous cavity, and by the numerous and elaborate inosculations and plexuses which these vessels every where exhibit, such interruptions might lead to consequences, permanent, irremediable and destructive. The whole subcutaneous system of veins must be looked upon as a series of compen- satory channels. The cavities of the deep veins are quite sufficient to return the blood that is sent to them by vessels of smaller aggregate calibre- But during muscular ex- ertion, &c, these deep vessels are impeded by pressure, and then the blood finds a colla- teral route by means of the subcutaneous veins. So again, when from cold, or other causes, the skin-muscle contracts and presses on the cutaneous veins they are more or less emptied, and their office is resumed by the deep veins : they thus keep up a mutual reciprocation of function. The large internal veins of the body; the