722 80LIPEDA. spreads downwards over the fascia lata to the hind leg. In describing the other parts of the mus- cular system, it will be necessary to divide them into their appropriate regions, and in so doing, we shall follow the arrangement usually adopted in describing the human sub- ject, beginning with the Proper muscles of the spine. — The long muscles of the spine, — viz. the spinalis and semi-spinalis dorsi, longissimus dorsi and sa- cro-lumbalis— present a disposition very simi- lar to what occurs in the human subject. The spinalis dorsi takes its origin from the spinous processes of the lumbar and posterior dorsal vertebrae, as well as from the broad fascia of the loins, and running forwards is in- serted by distinct tendons into the spines of the anterior vertebrae of the back. Its con- tinuation, the spinalis cervicis, is in the horse of great strength and importance: its origin commences from the second spine of the back, which origin is continued for about one third of the way down that spine towards its root: it arises likewise from the third dorsal spine and the ligamentum nuchas ; from these origins it runs forward to be implanted by strong and distinct tendons into the spines of the anterior cervical vertebras. The longissimus dorsi is situated immedi- ately external to the spinalis, taking its origin from the common mass of muscle that arises beneath the lumbar fascia, as well as from the spinous processes of the loins and sacrum, whence it runs forward to be inserted by a double set of tendons into the transverse pro- cesses of tlie loins and back, and also into the posterior ribs near their angles. Its continua- tion, the transversa/is colli, is likewise of con- siderable strength, but offers nothing worthy of remark. The sacro-lumbalis arises, in conjunction with the latissimus dorsi, from the back of the sacrum, and also by flat tendons about Fi«. 501. Myology of the Horse. (After Shibbs.) Head.— n, Levator anguli oris; o, orbicularis oris; t, anterior dilator of the nostril; w, masseter; k, septum narium; 4, vena angularis. 12, Anterior cartilage of the external ear. Neck.— a, Coraco-hyoideus ; g, transversahs cervicis; I, trachelo-mastoideus, or complexus minor; m, complexus; y, the longus colli. Shoulder.— c, Triceps extensor cubiti; k, tendon of the biceps flexor cubiti. Forearm and anterior extremity.— a,b,c, Extensor carpi radialis; h, extensor digitorum communis ; q, analogue of the extensor minimi digiti; 6, 9, ligaments; t, vena plantaris interna; u, nervus plantaris interims. Trunk.— d, serratus minor posticus; h, serratus major posticus; I, serratus major anticus; o, external intercostals ; p, internal intercostals ; q, rectus abdominis ; -v, obliquus internus. Hinder extremity.— b, glutseus medius ; h, rectus femoris; n, vastus externus; u, w, 21, 2G, 24, extensor digitorum pedis; 6. plantaris and gastrocnemius.