1215 TUNICATA. sac. The spaces circumscribed by the narrow elongated meshes, supported by the vertical filaments, and bordered with vibratile cilia, are not occupied by a membrane, but form openings, somewhat like a button-hole, called branchial stigmata. These chinks or spiracles, through which the water passes from the branchial sac in the thoracic chamber to es- cape outwards by the anal orifice, are conse- quently disposed in the same manner as the vertical filaments that circumscribe them, that is, parallel to each other and in transverse ranks, thirteen in number. Lastly, each of these vertical filaments is perforated by a canal, opening by its two extremities in other similar but larger canals, that occupy the in- terior of the transverse fillets. The latter vessels in their turn empty themselves by one of their extremities into the great dorsal or branchial sinus, and by the opposite extremity into the vertical fold of the ventral wall of the thoracic chambers, which is circumscribed by two parallel, vertical, yellow lines, and which places the respiratory organs in relation with the great thoracic sinus, lying between this chamber and the ventral portion of the internal tunic of the body. These two sinuses communicate also one with another by the vessels that surround the branchial orifice, and from which spring other vessels that de- scend towards the abdomen. The pharyngeal portion of the thoracic chamber, tapestried with the branchial net- work, opens externally at its upper extremity, by the branchial aperture, winch occupies nearly the whole of its diameter, and is furnished with a kind of radiating net-work of tentacular filaments. This cavity is cylindrical, and at its inferior extremity has a large trans- verse slit, the opening of the oesophagus, oppo- site to the external oral aperture. The oeso- phagus is large, and descends vertically into the abdomen terminating in the stomach {Jig. 768. V), which is ovoid and swollen. The intestine(711) springs from the inferior extremity of the stomach, and at first running vertically down- wards, and then bending forwards and upwards, so as to form a loop, it ascends towards the thorax by the side of the stomach and oesophagus, slightly covering them on the right side. Arrived at the superior part of the abdomen, it is again bent, passes by the side of the oesophagus, ascends rather behind the branchial sac, and terminates at the inferior part of the cloaca («), at about the level of the antepenultimate row of the branchial stigmata. Throughout its length the intestine preserves nearly an equal calibre, but varies in its ap- pearance, and is divisible into three portions. The first part, the duodenum, succeeding to the stomach and forming the intestinal loop, is colourless and transparent. The next por- tion, placed on a level with the stomach, but on the ventral side of the body, is on the contrary of a dull-yellow colour, and the tissue of its walls has a glandular appearance. This M. Milne-Edwards considers to be the hepatic portion of the alimentary canal, and comparable to the organ known in insects as the chylific ventricle. Lastly, in its third portion, the intestine again becomes mem- branous and colourless : here the faecal matter is collected into brownish pellets, and from its functions and position this portion of the tube is termed the great intestine, or rectum. To the right of the intestinal loop is placed a glandular mass, the chief part of which is formed by the ovary, recognised by its vesicles, and by the eggs of different degrees of development contained in it. Below the ovary is the testicle, a mass of whitish and ramifying fila- ments, spread out in some degree on the intestine. From this glandular mass arises a milk-white filiform canal, which ascends be- tween the stomach and the intestine, passes on the left side of the oesophagus, and opens into the cloaca, near the orifice of the rectum. This canal contains a silvery white fluid, crowded with spermatozoa, and must be con- sidered as a vas deferens. There being no other visible duct leading from the ovary, this canal perhaps serves also as an oviduct. The eggs are minute, circular, and of agreenish yellow colour. The heart is situated at the inferior part of the abdomen, lying against the intestine and the ovary, to the right and in front of the former, at the posterior part of the cavity of the mantle, between the tunic and the intestine, and much resembles that of Ascidia intestinalis. It is enclosed in a membranous sac or pericardium, and is cylindrical in form ; its superior extremity is on a level with the centre of the stomach, and its lower ex- tremity, turned up a little behind, passes some- times a little beyond the intestinal loop. The Perophora, first described by M. Lister in Phil. Transact. 1834, p. 378., as a " small Ascidia" is parasitic on Confervse, Sec, and appears to the eye like minute lumps of pellucid jelly, with a spot of orange and grey. The group consists of several individuals, each having its own circulatory, respiratory, and digestive systems, but fixed on a pedicle that branches from a common creeping stem, and all are connected by a circulation that extends throughout. They are very trans- parent, and their interior is easily seen. The two orifices are very short tubes ; the bran- chial is at the summit, and the anal is a little lower down. The longest diameter from the peduncle to the space between the openings is about '085 inch (see fig. 30(5. a and is, p. 623. Vol.1. Cilici). The test is subcartilaginous and tough, more pliable near the orifices. It is lined internally with the soft mantle, in which a ramifying circulation is very distinct. A great part of the interior is occupied by the branchial sac, which is subcylindrical, flattened at the sides, and has its axis vertical. It is united to the mantle above and behind ; the juncture, beginning in front of the oral open- ing, extends backwards on each side of it, and then downwards in two lines ; between these, along the middle of the back, is a vertical compound stripe. At the bottom, the branchial sac appears to be in contact with the mantle, but at its sides and front a vacant space is left between them, communicating