703 SPINAL NERVES. anterior part of the laxec and leg, viz. the in- ternal saphaenus. The internal cutaneous nerve (internal mus- culocutaneous) directed along the inner bor- der of the sartorius muscle, perforates the fascia at the lower third of the leg, occa- sionally perforating the sartorius before so doing. Having given off several cutaneous branches, which form a connexion with the cu- taneous branch of the obturator in this situa- tion, it continues its course towards the lower and inner part of the thigh, having previously communicated with a branch perforating the sartorius, and coming from the internal sa- phsenus. From the thigh it passes along the inner edge of the patella, describing a curve, and sending some terminal filaments from its concavity upwards to unite with the middle cutaneous : others, from its convexity down- wards, to communicate with the reflected branch of the saphaenus itself, and also its accessory branch. The accessory saphcenus nerve (Cruveilhier) takes its origin from the internal cutaneous ; from the anterior crural in company with the latter ; or from the trunk of the saphaenus it- self. It soon divides into a superficial internal branch, which passes from within the sheath of the sartorius muscles over the femoral vessels, and adductor longus, and at the junc- tion of about the upper with the middle third of the thigh meets with the internal saphoena vein, which it accompanies as far as the knee- joint, in which situation it communicates with the internal saphoanus and cutaneous branch of the obturator. The external branch, situ- ated behind the level of the superficial, is directed inwards to the femoral artery, runs along its outer part in close contact with it, and accompanies the vessel in Hunter's canal to its lower extremity. It then quits the artery, is directed in front of the tendon of the adductor magnus, to the upper part of the internal condyle of the femur, where it bocomes cutaneous, anastomosing with the internal cutaneous above, with the reflected branch of the saphaenus below, and sending cutaneous branches over the inner and middle part of the patella. This blanch has been termed by Cruveilhier the satellite nerve of the femoral artery: and the superficial branch might with equal propriety be denominated the satellite neive of the saphcena vein. The accessory saphaenus is subject to considerable variation, both as to size and origin. The middle cutaneous nerve perforates the fascia three or four inches below Poupart's ligament, crosses the sartorius muscle, and is directed over the inner part of the rectus to terminate in the cuticle over the front of the patella, anastomosing above with the external cutaneous nerve, and below with the internal cutaneous and accessory saphaenus. It fre- quently divides about the middle of the thigh into two branches, which run parallel with each other. The internal and middle cuta- neous nerves not unfrequently perforate the sartorius muscle before becoming cutaneous, the first at the middle, the second at its upper part. They are consequently described also as the inferior perforating cutaneous, and the superior perforating cutaneous. . The nerve to the femoral vessels is very de- licate, and arises internal to the internal cu- taneous, sometimes however coming off from the lumbar plexus. It is directed downwards and inwards to the femoral vessels, and di- vides into a series of filaments, one or two of which are directed through the cribriform fascia to the saphaena vein, along which they pass in a tortuous manner till lost by com- municating with the internal branch of the accessory saphaenus, about the middle of the thigh. The remainder pass, some behind and some in front of the femoral vessels, and ter- minate at the lower third of the thigh, by uniting with the external branch of the acces- sory saphaenus. The branches to the pectinccus are directed inwards behind the femoral vessels, and in their course to this muscle generally send a few filaments to the psoas. The deep-sealed muscular branches arise ex- ternal to the internal saphaenus nerve, and behind the superficial already described : and are from within outwards : Branches for the vastus intern us and crurasus : branch for the rectus : and branches for the vastus extcrnus, which are the deepest of all. The branch for the vastus interims (short saphaenus), taking its origin in close contact, with the internal saphaenus, from which it not unfrequently arises, is directed in com- pany with, but external to it, along with the femoral artery. It separates a little below the middle of the thigh from the vessels, and is directed to the external aspect of the vastus interims, to enter it at its lower one third ; but before so doing gives off a superficial ar- ticular branch, which passes in front of the outer border of Hunter's canal ; in this situa- tion occasionally communicating either with the cutaneous branch of the obturator, or the outer branch of the accessory saphaenus; crosses through the superficial muscular fibres of the vastus to its aponeurotic termination, which it perforates. It is then reflected for- wards, upwards, and outwards, and terminates in two or three filaments, one of which passes behind the ligamentum patella, entering the anterior part of the knee-joint ; the others pass in front of the patella, to supply the periosteum and skin over it. The nerve for the crurceus, shorter than that for the vastus interims, enters the upper and inner part of the muscle, extends as far as its lower part, and gives off filaments to the deep-seated portion of the muscle (the sub- cruraeus) to the periosteum and upper part of the synovial capsule. The branch for the rectus enters the upper part of its posterior aspect, and divides into a superior branch which passes transversely out- wards, and a long vertical branch which passes along its inner side to the lower portion. The branch for the vastus externus frequently arising in company with that for the rectus, is directed downwards and outwards between