999 TESTICLE (ABNORMAL ANATOMY). 3 s 4 I have searched for them. They were found in had begun to enlarge, subjects of various ages from 30 to 75, and in cysts of all sizes from that of a filbert to the largest which the hydrocele attains. The fluid in some instances contained these bodies in remarkable abundance; in others they existed sparingly. When very numerous, they give to the fluid an opaline opacity, or an appear- ance resembling cocoa-nut milk which is so characteristic as to enable the surgeon to pre- dicate their presence from the appearance of the fluid alone without minute examination. If the fluid be allowed to remain at rest in a glass vessel, the spermatozoa subside to the bottom, rendering the lower portion more opaque than the upper. The fluid also ex- hibits slight traces of albumen, when tested in the usual way, which is not the case with the ordinary pellucid colourless fluid of encysted hydrocele. The spermatozoa were often as lively as in fresh semen. They were observed more frequently in the larger cysts than in the smaller. I once found them in fluids removed from two distinct cysts connected with the epididymis of a man about sixty years of age. 1 have detected them in the fluid from en- cysted hydroceles tapped for the first time, and also in the examination of small cysts connected with testicles removed after death. 1 removed from an old man aged 75, who had had encysted hydrocele for eight years, and •which had never been tapped before, as much as thirty-two ounces of fluid, which contained an abundance of spermatozoa. They were also detected in fluid taken from a man aged 54, who stated that the tumour had existed for eight years, and had never been operated on. Various opinions have been broached to account for the existence of spermatozoa in the encysted form of hydrocele of the testicle. The explanation which seems to me the most reasonable and probable, is that which I offered shortly after the occurrence of sper- matozoa in encysted hydroceles was first dis- covered*, viz. that their presence is probably owing to the accidental rupture of a seminal canal, and the escape of its contents into the cyst of an existing hydrocele. The close proximity of the efferent tubes, the slight tex- ture of the ducts and delicate walls of the cyst, and the liability of the part to contusion and injury, when a swelling even of moderate size exists, seemed to me to favour this view. The circumstance that spermatozoa are never found in very small cysts show that they are not originally formed there, but are a subsequent addition to their contents. Since my attention has been drawn to this subject I have investigated the history of the cases of encysted hydrocele containing spermatozoa, which came under my notice. In nearly all instances the patients assured me that the swelling had gradually formed after an injury to the tesricle ; and in two cases it was clear that a small cystic swelling had long existed in a stationary state, but after a slight blow * Practical Treatise on Diseases of the Testis. Appendix, p. 541. I strongly suspect that, in these cases, a duct had been ruptured by the contusion, and that the irritation con- sequent on the injury, and perhaps on the addition of such lively bodies as spermatozoa to the fluid contents of the cyst, had led to its further development. I have, it is true, failed in establishing the fact of a communica- tion between the duct and the cyst by ana- tomical examination. In two instances of large encysted hydrocele containing sperma- tozoa, which I had an opportunity of examin- ing, I injected the vas deferens with coloured size, but the duct was so clogged with semen that the fluid could not be made to reach the head of the epididymis, to which the cyst was attached. In a preparation of large encysted bilocular hydrocele containing spermatozoa, shown me by Mr. Busk, the vas deferens had been injected with mercury, but none of the metal reached the upper part of the epididymis. The cyst evidently arose from the head of the epididymis, and was embedded a little in its substance. In these cases no opening com- municating with a duct could be discovered on examination of the cysts, but this is not surprising, since the communication must be extremely minute, so as readily to escape detection, or it may even have been obliter- ated. Spermatozoa are stated to have been found in some two or three instances in fluid re- moved from the tunica vaginalis. It is not improbable that these cases may have been encysted hydrocles mistaken for simple. The diagnosis is sometimes very difficult, and in the case of the cyst examined by Mr. Paget,* this error was made before death by a hospital surgeon. I have, however, found spermatozoa in the sac of the tunica vaginalis, and the fol- lowing case will account for their presence. A man aged fifty-four died in the London Hospital of disease of the kidnej s, of one of the ureters, and of the bladder, which appeared to be consequent on a severe blow on the loins about six weeks before. The tunica vaginalis of one of the testicles contained two ounces and a half of slightly opaque fluid, in which a few spermatozoa were found. There were three small cysts containing fluid immediately connected with the epididymis, and also at one spot an irregular ragged membranous appear- ance, evidently caused by the rupture of a cyst. It is most probable that the spermatozoa had escaped from this cyst, which may indeed have been burst at the time of the injury. I have examined the fluid from the tunica vagi- nalis in a large number of instances without finding these bodies, and I believe their occur- rence in the common form of hydrocele to be extremely rare. Diffused Hydrocele of the Spermatic Curd.— Mr. Pott has given an admirable account of this affection, under the denomination of hy- drocele of the celts of the tunica communis.f It has likewise been particularly described by * Medico-chirnrgical Trans., vol. 27. p. 398. ■\ Vide his Treatise on Hydrocele.