VESICULA PROSTATICA. 1121 Fig. 879. Weberian Organ of the Deer, t, a, vasa deferentia; b, b, se- minal vesicles; c, Weberian organ. Weberian Organ of the Goat. seminal ducts; b, b, seminal vesicles; c, Weberian organ. in the majority of he-goats a less complete development of the Weberian organ occurs. According to my observations the organ consists of a cylindrical body, which ascends between tlie two seminal ducts, and is strongly united to these by areolar tissue, especially in its inferior half. After a course of an inch and a half it splits into two horns, which are apposed to the seminal ducts, and continue with these to the testicles, where they pass into the covering of the epididymis. In two instances the lower third of the body was dilated into a longish vesicle of about three lines in diameter, while the part above this measured scarcely one line. At the seat of bifurcation it was again dilated, though less considerably. In one individual the middle portion was obliterated so as to form a solid cord. The point of opening into the uro-genital canal is a small linear fold, which is separated by a short interval from the orifices of the vasa deferentia, and is usually placed below, but, in one instance, above them. The genitals examined were those of either new-born individuals, or of such as were but a few weeks old. In two instances, which were in no way distinguished by a special development of the Weberian organ, the uro- genital canal was wider and shorter than normal, measuring from 2 to 2A inches long only, instead of about 4 inches, while the penis was smaller, and twisted into numerous zigzags or spirals. But in other respects the male organs were quite perfectly developed; the urethra opened at the extremity of the penis, and the testicles had descended into the scrotum. In the sheep there is no Weberian organ. Even in the new-born individual, neither its opening nor any other indication of it can be found. But in the bullock I found immediately under the orifice of the vasa deferentia a small and scarcely noticeable roundish aperture, through which a probe penetrated about two lines in depth, evidently into the tubular cavity of a small Weberian organ, which was covered by the heart-shaped mass of the pro- state. Fie. 881. Weberian Organ of the Monodon. a, verumontanum: b, b, orifices of the vasa de- ferentia ; c, orifice of the Weberian body. Cetacca.— Some time ago* I described the Weberi an organ in the ucirichut and dolphin* It lies in the prostate, beneath the conspicuous * Zur Anatomie, &c, S. 100.