1455 VISION. being quite unconscious that this was red. He had a collection of engravings, some coloured and others plain, but the only dif- ference he could perceive was, that some were clearer than others. When criticising a picture he would discuss the composition of the design, the light, shade, and perspective ; but, as to the colours, he was silent. When walking with others in a garden, he affected to speak of the beauty and size of the flowers, their regularity and perfume, but to his eyes they, like the pictures, were all grey. The case of a shoemaker named Harris, described in the Philosophical Transactions* has been ge- nerally quoted as a well-marked example of this form of achromatopsy, but on carefully con^-idering the remarks made upon it by Dr. Dalton f, we are doubtful whether it really was as supposed, and are inclined rather to refer it to the second class. The case of M. Collardeau j has been described as of this nature. This gentleman was an amateur artist, but the imperfection of his vision gave rise to the strangest pro- ductions. So long as he confined himself to the pencil, or to sketching in one colour, he designed with much skill, but his paintings in colours were the reverse of happy. For in- stance, wishing to work up a scene in which he had drawn a dog, he unfortunately mistook the colour, and painted red all those pints which should have been deep blue. He has been known to confound on the canvass yel- low with blue, and red with green, regarding his work with the complaisance of a man who felt that he had achieved success. The following interesting cases are of a character forming a connecting link between the two classes of achromatopsy. The first is related by D'Hombres Firmas. § Count of Alais, aged thirty -eight, married, and the father of a family, possessed excellent vision in every repect, except the perception of colours ; but yellow, and the shades be- tween black and white, were the only tints he could recognise. On a number of dif- ferent roses being placed in his hands, he merely saw that white flowers were brighter than purple; yellow flowers he distinguished, but red, blue, violet, and white blossoms all appeared more or less dark though he dis- tinguished the yellow centres. This gen- tleman was fond of geology, but found it im- possible to judge of the colours which marked various formations in the map of M. Dumas. Lacustrine formations and the lias were the only ones which he distinguished, all the others appearing to him tinted in grey; and he would have confounded them together, if his excellent sight had not enabled him to follow the dotted lines and letters by which they were indicated. He drew with taste in crayon, Indian ink, and sepia ; but only on * Phil. Trans, vol. lxvii. p. 260. f Memoirs of the Literary and Philosophical So- ciety of Manchester, vol. v. part i. p. 38. i Observations sur la Physique et l'Histoire Na- turelle, vol. xiii. p. 87. § Op. cit. p. 73. one occasion attempted a scene in colours, of a peasant and a bouquet of flowers. The re- sult was so very unsatisfactory to ordinary eyes, that he was not tempted to repeat the experiment: The second case has been recorded by Dr. Deconde.* A soldier applying for his discharge on the ground of the formation of cataract, attracted particular attention on account of the cyanic colour of his sclerotica ; and on investigating his power of distinguishing co- lours, it was found that all those of the spec- trum were confounded in two fundamental hues, yellow and blue. Dark red, bright red, rose, orange, yellow, green in which yel- low predominated, and grey white, all ap- peared as different shades of yellow : whilst blue, green, and white with a blueish shade, were perceived as blue. All the very deep colours were regarded as black, and all the very light ones had a whitish appearance, though the man did not seem to have cogni- zance of white, properly so called. Light, de- composed by a prism, appeared to him of uni- form blue. His sight was feeble and easily fatigued. Numerous trials always led to the above results. Class II. (Polychromatic Daltonism of Wartmann.)—This form includes the vast ma- jority of cases of insensibility to colours, and presents a very remarkable diversity of phe- nomena. The colour, which, of all others, is the stumbling-block, is lilac, and next to it rose, indigo, and violet; on the othei hand, yellow and blue are most commonh recog- nised. A very general form is that first de- scribed by the illustrious Daltonf, who has given his name to the affection; and the following are the chief features of his case. He was not conscious of any peculiarity of vision until the age of twenty-six, when, a dis- cussion arising as to the colour of the flower of Geranium zonale, it was discovered that he and his brother differed materially from other people in their ideas upon the point. About two years afterwards he entered upon an in- vestigation of the subject, and the following are the principal results at which he arrived. The solar spectrum appeared composed of three colours, yellow, blue, and purple, the red being little more than a shade or defect of light. Orange, yellow, and green were shades of yellow, whilst green and blue were strongly contrasted. Of ordinary colours, crimson and dark blue were identical; the colour of a florid complexion being a dull opaque blackish blue, upon a white ground ; blood seemed bottle green ; the face of a laurel leaf was a good match for a stick of sealing wax ; and the back of the leaf an- swered to the lighter red of wafers. Green baize appeared a dark brownish red .: and a light drab was not to be distinguished from a light green ; browns were very diversified, some having a great affinity for green, others * Annales d'Oculistique, torn. xx. p. 52. % Mem. of the Lit. and Phil. Society of Man- chester, vol. v. part i.