1491 VOICE. Phoca vitulina, or Common Seal.—Larynx: H. 1-2 in. Thyroid : wings united by a small cartilaginous plate ; cornua parallel to axis of Fig. 902. Larynx, Tongue, and Trachea of the Cat. a, tongue ; b, epiglottis ; c, superior vocal cords ; d, infinferior vocal cords. vocal tube. Cricoid : depth of anterior to pos- terior surface as 2 to 5. Crico-thyroid chink rhomboidal. Epiglottis triangular, fixed to the thyroid by cartilage. L. 0-675in. Trachea 78 rings.* Voice, nearly the pitch of a soprano; melody, a melancholy moaning. * According to Wolff, the first twelve rings are complete circles, the rest overlap each other. Marsupialia. Kangaroo.—Thyroid: mar- gins, superior a notch in front. Arytenoids large. Cuneiform Cart., ventricles and su- perior ligament absent. Vocal cords mem- branous, fold upon themselves, so that they cannot be stretched* by the arytenoids. Voice, when in pain, moans piteously. -f- Phalanger.\ —Vocal cords: membranes sub- stituted for vocal ligaments, but, as in the kangaroo, do not fold on themselves. Com- mon Phalanger : vocal ligaments absent. Didelpkis Opossum.—(Fig. 903.) Larynx : H. 0-288 in. Superior ligament absent. Ventricles Fig. 903. I. 2. 1. A lateral view of the Larynx of Didelpkis Opossum. a, thyroid cart.; b, cricoid; c, crico-thyroid ligament; d, trachea. 2. A posterior view of the same, c, cricoid cart.; e, laryngotracheal ligament; d, trachea. very small. Inferior ligament : L. 0176 in. Voice consequently acute; purrs like the cat. § Trachea 20 rings. Rodent ia. Paca.—Epiglottis nearly semi- circular ; at its base a blind sac. Ventricles not deep. Vocal cords but little salient. Cavia capybara. Larynx similar to that of the paca. Voice grunts like a pig. Lepus cnniculus. The Rabbit. — (Fig. 904.) Larynx: H. 0-4 in. Thyroid: wings united at an obtuse angle; margins oblique and parallel. Crico-thyroid chink large. Arytenoids small, pyramidal. Cuneiform cart, curved. Vocal curds: superior thin and delicate ; inferior pro- minent. L. 0-26in. Epiglottis a obtuse; apex slightly notched, at the base of which are 4 conical cartilaginous bodies or tubercles in- clined towards each other: between them, b b, is a triangular space ; and a vertical groove passes between the insertion of the vocal ligaments from b to c. On each side a ligamentous filament descends, which acts on the tubercles above mentioned. The infe- rior tubercles give attachments to superior vocal ligaments and roof of the ventricles. Office of tubercles — to open the ventricles, stretch the superior ligaments, and give free- * Cuvier. f Bennett's Wanderings in New South Wales, i The Phalanger of Cook. § Cuvier describes two small vibrating mem- branes at the base of the epiglottis, which is denied by Wolff. 5 C 2