VARIETIES OF MANKIND. 362 must be admitted to have taken place, unless every island is supposed to have had its own independent stock, has led Dr. Latham to the conclusion that the Micronesian group was peopled before the Polynesian area. — The proper Po'ynesian branch presents such a wide diversity in physical characters, that if it were not for the unquestionable community of lan- guage, usages, &c, it might be thought to con- sist of several races, as distinct from each other as they are from the Malayan branch. Thus the Tahitians and Marquesans are tall and well made; their figures combine grace and vigour ; the skulls are usually as symmetrical as those of most Europeans ; and their physiog- nomy presents much of the European cast, there being only a slight flattening of the nose, expansion of the nostrils, and thick- ening of the lips, to indicate a degradation, which is rather in the Negro than in the Mongolian direction (fig. 850.). The com- ing. 850. Tahitian Female. (From a portrait by an officer of " L'Artemise.") plexion, especially in the females of the higher classes, who are sheltered from the wind and sun, is of a clear olive, or brunette, such as is common among the natives of Southern Eu- rope ; and the hair, though generally black, is sometimes brown or auburn, or even red or flaxen. Among other tribes, as the Sandwich Islanders, the New Zealanders, and the Tonga and Friendly islanders, there are greater di- versities of hue and conformation (fig. 851.) ; some being of a copper-brown colour; others, nearly black; others, olive ; and others, almost white ; the fairer races are generally taller and more vigorous, whilst the darker are inferior in stature and figure. Many of these varieties present themselves in a single community, Fig. 851. New Zealander. (From a portrait by Earle.') such as that of New Zealand, and are so strongly marked as to have led to the idea that the difference is due to an intermixture of races; but the unity of language, and the ab- sence of any other indication, prevent such a supposition from possessing the least claim to reception. It is a most remarkable fact that the Madecassians, or natives of Madagascar, speak a language which is obviously derived from the Malayan stock, being most nearly allied to that of the Philippine Islands ; and some of the multiform population of that island bear a striking resemblance to Malays, whilst others seem more allied (as might be expected) to the African nations of the main- land. At present, the character and origin of the Madecassian population is one of the doubtful questions of ethnology. The Negrito race presents a marked ap- proximation to the physical characters of the true Negro. The skull is of the prognathous type ; the nose is flattened, the nostrils ex- panded laterally, the lips thickened, and the complexion a deep brown, or even black. The character of the hair varies considerably ; for in some cases it is long and straight ( fig. 827.); and in others, crisp and frizzly ; and in others, even woolly (figs.805,806.).' By Dr. Prichard and others a distinction was drawn between those with straight, and those with woolly hair; but the validity of this can scarcely be maintained, since it appears that the very same people may present one or the other kind of hair, according, as it would seem, to the climatic and other conditions under which they exist. The Negrito race not only inhabits the area which 'is more exclusively its own, but is also believed to exist in