706 SOFTENING AND INDURATION. the state of the fluids of the tissue, and the presence of effused or infiltrated matters, it may be bright or dark red, grey, yellow, and sometimes almost black. Induration presents several degrees of re- sistance to pressure or to the knife ; much depends on the ordinary cohesion of the af- fected organ. Generally speaking, the first degree is characterised by a slight increase in the resistance to pressure; the second finds the tissue denser, cutting with a cracking noise; and the third comprehends increased cohesion, amounting to a cartilaginous or bony hardness. Softening of the brain may be ascribed to inflammatory action, or to a defective state of the circulating apparatus of the organ ; it may be an effect of a defective or perverted state of the body generally, and it is frequently caused by post mortem agencies. Now these four varieties of softening, although, as re- gards their external appearances they have much in common, differ considerably from each other, each having peculiar attributes. The first and second varieties are generally found in the most, and the third in the least, vascular parts of the brain. Post mortem softening occurs, lor the most part, in the immediate neighbourhood of the ventricles, is usually very diffused, is found on both sides at once, and is, of course, never preceded by symptoms. Softening of the brain may be partial or general, and may present various degrees: the least change of consistence is only to be recognised by the microscope; in a more ad- vanced degree the softening is obvious to the unassisted senses, at first to the touch and then to the eye, the diseased part being pul- taceous, and readily removed by a stream of water, a cavity surrounded by healthy struc- ture being made evident. In a more advanced degree still, the cere- bral substance instead of being pultaceous is quite diffluent, and occasionally a perfect so- lution of continuity is found. The softened portion of brain presents various alterations of colour. In inflammatory softening, the colour mainly depends upon the previous quantity of blood in the part; it may be of a deep red colour, with or without effused clots of blood, and frequently merges at the edges into at first a deep, and then a pale, yellow colour. Sometimes the yellow colour is central and the reddened portion external, resembling a collection of pus, so much so that Lallemand described it as such. A dull red ochre colour with more or less hardening in the neighbouring structure, is indicative of chronic disease of long standing; as is also a chalky milk appearance, and a bright vermilion, of a recent effusion of blood into a previously softened part. In com- mencing softening, a diffused blush, with or without spots of blood, is generally found. A deep grey colour and fawn and dirty white tints accompany inflammatory softening, but much more frequently that which is produced by a deficient supply of blood. No alteration of colour takes place in post- mortem softening. These distinctions of colour indicate no essential differences, as far as structure is concerned, for all coloured softenings may present the same histological characters. As a general rule, the red varieties are indicative of acute inflammation, yellow of subacute, and white or grey of deficient nutrition of the affected part; but this rule is by no means invariable. Universal softening of the brain, accom- panied by a smell of sulphuretted hydrogen, is found in children suffering from general de- bility, and occasionally in infants stricken with induration of the subcutaneous cellular tissue. Softening from a defective state of the cir- culatory apparatus is found, for the most part, in persons advanced in life, and consti- tutes what is termed tvhite softening. It de- pends on the presence of osseous, cartila- ginous, or atheromatous matter in the walls of the arteries, nearly or quite blocking up their entire caliber, and affecting vessels of all sizes. It may supervene upon occlusion of the common carotid from ligature, and, indeed, upon any circumstance retarding or diminishing the quantity of blood to the brain ; intense inflammation may disorganise the ves- sels, carrying blood to a remote portion of the brain, and thus cause softening; or a severe blow, or the presence of a tumor of greater or less density and magnitude, may act in the same manner. The very fact of adventitious products being found within the arteries, hints at a perverted state of the brain and system gene- rally ; absorption does not progress in the diseased portions of the brain, which, having lost their supply of blood, are in a state ana- logous to that of an extremity attacked with gangrena senilis. The softening of the brain which is pro- duced by post mortem agencies is of very frequent occurrence. It may exist alone, or may complicate the other varieties, and is caused by the decomposition natural to or- ganised bodies after death, or by the infil- trating action of fluids, which, either during life or in the agony of death, were effused into the ventricular cavities, and sub-arachnoid spaces. Softening of the spinal cord is of not un- common occurrence. It presents the same cha- racters as those pertaining to the like affec- tion of the brain, is produced by the same causes, and offers the same pathological cha- racters. Softening of the whole cord may occur, but most frequently parts of it only are affected ; it is found softened most fre- quently in the lumbar region, and not unfre- quently in the cervical. Induration of the brain may be general or partial, and presents three degrees of consist- ence. In its first degree, the affected part is nearly of the consistence of a brain which has been left some time in dilute nitric acid ; in the second degree, the indurated part is of a cheesy, and in the third of a waxy, fibro-