730 SOLIPEDA. biceps (ileo-rotulien), the vastus interims, the vastus externus, and the cruralis — offer in all quadrupeds the same general disposition as in man, the three last forming one great common muscle (trifemoro-rotidieu). The anterior mar- gin of the thigh in the horse and in other quadrupeds is formed by the sartorius [iieo- pretibieii), which here, from its position and office, has been named by hippotomists the " long adductor of the thigh." Fig. 503. Deep muscles of the thigh and ligaments of the, pos- terior extremity of the Horse. a, b, c. A muscle named by Stubbs " muscuhis parvus in articulatione femoris situs : it arises by a flat tendon (ft), from above the tendon of the rectus cruris (d), and is inserted tendinous into the os fe- moris (c) ; /, k, 1, iliacus internus. The small numerals indicate the principal ligaments of the limb. The biceps (jsclvo-peronien) in the horse and the greater number of quadrupeds, not even excepting the quadrumana, arises by a single origin, which is derived from the ischium, and the neighbouring ligaments and fascial expan- sions. This muscle covers a large proportion of the outer surface of the thigh : its principal insertion is into the head of the fibula, but it likewise throughout its whole length contracts extensive and important attachments with the fascia lata, so that it also becomes a powerful extensor of the thigh. There is moreover, in the horse and in the Ruminantia, a distinct portion of the biceps derived from the sacro- sciatic aponeurosis, the fibres of which are directed obliquely from before backwards, which, meeting the ischiatic portion at an angle, form with it a kind of raphe, which is prolonged for some distance. This muscle is called by Bourgelat the " vastus longus" of the thigh. The gracilis (jmbio-pretibieii) is in all quad- rupeds a very considerable muscle, more especi- ally in such as have the thigh much shortened, as is the case in the horse, and the ungulata generally. It is called by Bourgelat the " short adductor of the thigh," whilst he gives the name "gracilis" to the semitendinosus. The semimembranosus (ischio-sous-tibien) and the semitendinosus (ischio-pretibien) have in all quadrupeds the same origin and general ar- rangement as in man; but both of them are in the lower animals inserted into the tibia by a broad aponeurosis. It must also be remarked that their insertion extends much lower down than in the human subject, a circumstance which causes the leg to be permanently kept in a semiflexed condition; and is one of the great obstacles to their walking in an upright position. Even in the Quadrumana these muscles have their insertions very low down in the leg. The poplitceus has nothing remarkable in its disposition. Muscles implanted into the font. The gas- trocnemii (bi-femoro-calcanieii) and the sola?us (tibio-calcanien) are less considerable muscles, as regards their comparative size in quadru- peds, than in the human race : nevertheless their general disposition is invariably the same as in man. In the Solipcda, the solceus is remarkably slender and feeble. The plantaris (femori-calcanien).—In the Solipeds this muscle is remarkably developed, so much so indeed as apparently to repre- sent the flexor sublimis. In the horse this muscle arises under the external head of the gemellus from a large fossa in the os fe- moris above the external condyle : its tendon is continued downwards, and runs over the extremity of the os calcis, where it is en- closed in a sheath formed by strong liga- ments, which prevent it from slipping out of its place; passing on from this point, it di- vides, to be inserted upon each side of the posterior surface of the great pastern bone towards its inferior extremity, here giving passage between its two insertions to the ten- don of the long flexor of the toe, which it serves to bend down closely to the pastern when the fetlock joint is bent, thus seeming to perform the functions both of the plantai is and of the short flexor of the toes. The tibialis anticus. — In the Ruminantia and in the Solipeds, the tibialis anticus is im-