TERATOLOGY. 961 Fig. 616. Human Acephalus, born along with a well-formed child. a, the right foot with five; b, the left, with three toes; h, the female genitals; i, the anus; c, tumor formed by the umbilical cord; d, e,f, g, eminences covered by the skin. Fig. 617. Tlie same Acephalus with dissection of the skeleton. a, a, the only obvious inferior dorsal vertebra, with a pair of ribs; 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, lumbar vertebra;; b, sacrum ; c, c, d, iliac bones; e, femur; /, bones of the foot. Third Type.—Acephali in which the trunk is more developed, without a head and thoracic or superior extremities, but composed of an in- complete trunk, with an imperfect inferior extre- mity.— In the lowest grade of this monstrosity may be ranked an acephalus observed by Ruysch, consisting only of a leg. Somewhat more perfect is the acephalous inferior ex- tremity of a goat, mentioned by Hayn. It consisted of a pelvic bone, with the other bones of the inferior extremity, some muscles, the vessels and nerves of the femur, which were probably connected with the umbilical cord of the perfect goat born at the same time as the acephalus. Fourth Type. — Acephali in which the trunk is more developed, without a thorax and without superior limbs, and composed of an ab- domen, genital organs, and two inferior limbs. — The hypogastrium and the two inferior limbs are, then, more or less completely formed parts. With exception of one, all VOL. IV. the observations which we know of it are ot twins, and in one case of three children born at one birth. In many it is proved that the mother of the acephalus has been often fecun- dated. They are rarely full-grown at birth, and they have in most instances a placenta common to them and the well-formed child, but with a separate cord ; the fcetal membranes also appear to be common to both. The cord of the acephalus contains sometimes two, sometimes three or four vessels (T. II. Kalck). The integuments of the monster, truncated at its upper part, are irregularly tumified, by a large quantity of thick, pale, or yellowish subcutaneous cellular tissue. Interiorly there are lumbar vertebra?, with a pelvis, and the bones and muscles of inferior limbs, besides the spinal marrow and its nerves ; the lumbar and sacral parts of the sympathetic nerve ; blood-vessels without a heart, of which the arteries are connected with the umbilical ar- teries, and the veins with the umbilical vein ; a loop of intestines ; uropoietic, and genital parts. All the other parts are wanting. Fifth Type. —Acephali in which the trunk is much more developed, with an imperfect tho- rax, composed of some dorsal vertebra; and ribs. IVte superior limbs are wanting.— The only difference between this and the preceding type is in the more complete trunk, there being a thorax superadded to the abdomen. In all the other points the structure re- sembles that of the fourth type; they are Fig. CI8. Human Acephalus born along with a ivell-formed child, a, cutaneous fissure in the lower part of the thorax; b, umbilical hernia, under which arc the male external genital parts. X Q