1254 URETHRA. elephant; they have a similar structure as the prostate, but are comparatively larger; they are reddish in colour, very irregular exter- nally, and present a lobular appearance. They are divided into two portions ; a smaller, near the bulb, and another large portion. In the centre of the first there is a considerable cavity, which receives the fluid poured into it by smaller cavities, and these communicate with still smaller cellules. From the prin- cipal cavity a canal arises, which, communicat- ing with that of the other portion of the gland, forms a single common canal. The ex- cretory duct is formed of two branches; it passes a short distance in the walls of the urethra, before it opens into the bulb. The glands are covered by a thick muscular layer, the fibres of which converge to a tendon, which is fixed to each corpus cavernosum. In the wild boar the gland is elongated and cylindrical, formed of a firm substance com- posed of minute cells, which uniting form larger cells, and these communicate with a common central cavity, from which an excre- tory duct arises; this opens on the side of a cul-de-sac in the commencement of the bulb of the urethra. They are each completely surrounded by a muscle. In Solipeds they form an oval swelling on each side of the pelvic portion of the urethra. They are sur- rounded by muscular and tendinous fibres : each opens by a dozen orifices, ranged in rows, into the adjacent part of the urethra. Amongst the Ruminants, in the chamois, they are of the shape and size of a pigeon's egg; its canal terminates in the usual situation. They are similar in all ruminants where they exist. Amongst the Marsupialia they are remark- able for their number : thus, there are as many as six in the Mexican opossum, phalangers, phdscotymus, and giant kangaroo ; four in the sarigue and kangaroo-rat. In the giant kan- garoo two are placed, one by the side of the other, over the urethra, just behind the crura penis; two others are situated on each side behind the crura, and are larger than the others. They are all invested by a muscular and aponeurotic envelope, and are composed of canals passing lengthways : they resemble in structure the prostate. In the echidna and ornithorijnchus, amongst the Monotremata, there is a gland on each side of the cloaca, small, and of an oval shape, containing within it a central canal opening into an excretory duct: this pene- trates the constrictor cloacae, and joins a small seminal canal detached from the urethra, near its termination in the cloaca. The gland is surrounded by a thick muscle, the action of which is forcibly to throw forwards the fluid along the long excretory canal with which it is provided. Cowper's glands are altogether wanting in birds. They are not found in reptiles gene- rally ; but in the amphibious Urodeles the genitourinary opening is surrounded by a glandular apparatus in some respects ana- logous. In fishes they are wanting. They belong to the class of glands desig- nated by Cuvier as supplementary to the male organs of generation, and their use is to pour out a fluid to lubricate the spongy portion of the urethra, and by blending with the seminal and other fluids, to assist in the general distension of the canal. Bloodvessels of the Urethra. — The urethra is a highly vascular membrane, and its arteries are derived on either side from that branch of the pudic which enters the corpus spongiosum at the bulb, and is known by the name of the arteria corporis spongiosi urethrce vel arteria bulbi. This artery divides into small branches, many of which are distributed on the cells of the corpus spongiosum, whilst others pass through this body, and penetrating the elastic tunic of the urethra are distributed upon its mucous sur- face, forming intricate plexuses between and at the basis of its columns : others are des- tined to the lacuna? over which they form a delicate network, which conveys to these crypts a cellular appearance. They all freely anastomose on the general surface of the urethra, and at the meatus communicate with those minute branches of the arteria dorsalis penis, which, having reached the prepuce, are reflected over the cutaneous surface of the glans penis. The veins either communicate with those of the spongy body, and empty themselves into the dorsal vein of the penis, or terminate at once in the prostatic plexus by means of those already described in the membranous portion. Nerves. — The nerves are exceedingly small; they accompany the arteries of the bulb, but cannot be traced into the urethral membrane, although the high sensibility of this structure even in health, and especially under disease, indicates at once a considerable nervous supply. The nerves are derived partly from the pudic nerves, which give minute branches, taking the course of the arteries of the bulb, and partly from the plexus situated beneath the neck of the blad- der formed by some small branches of the sacral nerves and sacral ganglion of the sym- pathetic. The lymphatics — join the superficial and deep lymphatics of the penis, and either ter- minate in the inguinal glands, or, passing into the pelvis with the pudic vessels, join the ganglion situated around the internal iliac artery. Function. — The office of the urethra is to give exit to the urine from the bladder, and the secretions of the testes and their ap- pendages the vesiculae seminales, the prostate and Cowper's glands. For the free discharge of the urine, the urethra is in a passive con- dition, and the penis relaxed, and as free as possible of blood ; the muscles surrounding the membranous portion together with the slightly resisting urethra yield to the efforts of the detrusor urina?, and the urine passes in a stream varying in size and force ac-