SPLEEN. 783 surrounds itself with a part of the bloody (plasma and globules), and, finally,'-Eon— Fig. 532. Cells containing blond corpuscles, from the spleen of the Frog (Rana temporaria and esculenta), magnified 350 diameters. 1, cells with one or more blood globules of an intense yellow colour, diminished in size, yet mostly not yet destroyed; 2, cells with blood globules coloured brown, orange, or black, still more diminished and dissolved (coloured granule cells); 3, cells with blood globules much diminished or quite dissolved, and undergoing discolorization (pale-coloured granule-cells) ; 4, cells with completely dissolved and discolorized blood globules (colourless gra- nule-cells); 5, coloured granule-cells (like those in 3) in different stages of their transition into black pigment-cells. In 1—5 tlie letters import, as in fig. 351. b, the nuclei of the blood globules. ditieoales the development of a membrane on the surface of the sphere thus commenced. Or one might regard the formation of spheres consisting of some blood plasma and blood globules as the primary phenomenon ; and that then a nucleus begins in each sphere; and that, finally, a membrane is thrown around these. In corroboration of this opinion, Hasse and myself* have observed in the pigeon the occurrence of inflammatory globules, which are without nuclei or membranes, but contain blood globules ; and to this may be added, that in the splenic extravasations blood cor- puscles are often grouped together in heaps without being contained in cells. Be this as it may, in any case thus much is certain, that as soon as the cells with their included blood globules are visible, the nuclei are never absent ; and this fact, taken in conjunction with what is already known of the import of nuclei in the process of cell development, speaks strongly for their formation preceding that of the membrane of the said cells. These cells containing blood corpuscles * Zeitschrift fur Ration. Mcdicin, Band. iv. S. 1. behave themselves so far alike in all creatures, that their blood corpuscles by degrees dis- appear and fall to the ground ; and, ulti- mately, they all seem to be converted into colourless cells, although the methods by which this change occurs are different in different animals ; whence it will be well to go through them one by one. a. In mammals the cells with unchanged blood corpuscles are not very easily seen, on account of the small size of the latter, anil the facility with which they lose their colour ; yet one can easily get a sight of them, pro- vided the examination be made at the right time, and the application of water forborne. 1 have seen them plainly in man, the rabbit (fig- 531. 1.), guinea-pig, sheep, calf, and dog ; and have found that in these creatures the number of the included blood globules is from 1 to 12, on an average from 2 to 6, and the size of the cells from 5 to 16-1000ths of a line; while their vesicular nuclei have a length of 36-10000ths, and a breadth of 28-10000ths of a line. By the shrinking up and falling to pieces of the blood globules, which immediately renders them darker in colour, coloured granule-cells begin from these cells. They are of a golden yellow, or rusty or brownish yellow, or even blackish colour ( fig. 531.2.), and gradually experience a trans- ition into cells, with slightly coloured, more numerous, and smaller granules; and, finally, they take the form of altogether colourless cells, part of which are even poor in granules {Jig. 531. 3.). In man, the rabbit, and the guinea-pig were found, besides the cells just described, free granules and heaps of granules, of a golden yellow, brown, or blackish colour; together with altered blood globules, con- cerning which it seemed to me very probable that they were originally free, and were never included in cells. In other vertebrata, as in the hedge-hog, the cat, and the bat (Vesperiilio myatis and p'vpislreUus), the cells with the unchanged blood globules were not observed, although all other stages, from the golden yellow to the altogether colourless granule- cells, were seen. Finally, in others, as in the horse and ass, were seen uncommonly nu- merous, diminished, and highly coloured blood- globules, both isolated and aggregated ; and the metamorphoses of these into golden, brown, and blackish-yellow heaps of granules, although no definite indication of cell struc- ture could be detected around these heaps. b. Amongst birds, I have found the round cells in Falco albicillus, Cuculus canorus, Turdus varius, Perdix saxatilis, and Sylvia hortensis. They were in larger or smaller quantity, from 4 to 10-1000ths of a line in size, with dark golden yellow granules which were evidently nothing but metamorphosed blood globules. This was very distinctly shown in Turdus musica, since here the cells occurred with unchanged blood globules. Everywhere these cells experienced a trans- ition, partly into brown and black granule- cells, partly into colorless granulated cells. c. Amongst the ReptUia. In the scaly