URINE. 1209 4 M 3 hope of obtaining some fixed law whereon to base a knowledge of the peculiar influence of the several circumstances on which the varia- tions depend. The chemical analysis of this complex fluid was undertaken by Berzelius, who, with his accustomed accuracy, produced a result in which the various improvements and advances in chemistry have rendered it necessary to make but little change. The number of constituents of healthy urine has been but little increased by discovery since Berzelius wrote, one or two only having to be added to his list. It will be our object to enumerate these constituents, and describe such as may require especial notice, before proceeding to consider the quantitative analysis of the urine. The following, then, may be regarded as a list of the constituents of healthy urine : — Water. Urea. {Of four kinds, dif- fering in their reactions and solubility in men- strua. f Of two kinds, brown, Colouring matter. -J (or hcemaphceiri), and (_red (or woerythrin). Mucus. Uric acid. Hippuric acid. Carbonic acid. Lactic acid. Sulphuric acid. Hydrochloric acid. Phosphoric acid. Silicic acid. Hydrofluoric acid. Soda. Potash. Lime. Magnesia. Ammonia. Oxide of iron. Other acids, peculiar to urine, have been described by authors, but their qualities are not sufficiently determined to admit of their being yet classified as constituents. Urea. — This constituent of the urine has been supposed by some to form during the evaporations necessary for its extraction. This, however, is not the case, as I have been able to obtain it by agitating the officinal rectified ether with urine in the natural state, and then allowing the ethereal solution, which separates above the urine, to evaporate spontaneously. The urea so obtained is free from lactic acid, showing that the view of MM. Cass and Henry, who consider urea to exist in urine in the form of lactate, is in all probability erroneous. Urea possesses the following ultimate con- stitution:— C2, N2, 114, 02. Its chemical properties are as follows: — When heated on platinum foil it fuses, and on the heat being urged, it yields fumes of carbonate of ammonia. It is very soluble in both cold and warm water. A concentrated solution of urea will bear a heat of 212° Fahr. without decomposition, but it quickly decomposes at that temperature when in dilute solution. Alcohol of specific gravity 0*816 dissolves one-fifth of its weight of urea at 60° Fahr. ; boiling alcohol dissolves nearly its own weight. Urea is slightly soluble in ether. The caustic alkalies boiled with urea de- compose it into carbonate of ammonia. The nitric and oxalic acids combine with urea, forming more or less insoluble salts, and on this fact the processes for the extraction of urea, from its combinations, chiefly de- pend. Urea possesses neither an acid nor alkaline reaction. Its crystalline form is that of a four-sided prism. Extractive matters of Urine. — There are four of these extractives; one soluble in alcohol as well as in water, and three soluble in water, and not in alcohol. That which is soluble in alcohol may be ob- tained from the urine by digesting alcohol of specific gravity 0'833 on an extract of urine, and after crystallising the urea by means of nitric acid from the products of the alcoholic solution dissolved in water, separating the un- ervstallisable matter, and neutralising it with carbonate of baryta : the mass must then be dried, and alcohol must be used to separate the extractive from the barytic salt. Its chemical properties are as follow : — When heated, it swells much, and leaves a copious alkaline carbonaceous mass.* It red- dens litmus paper. Neither bi-chloride of mercury, nor the acetate of lead, is capable of precipitating its watery solution.")" Both acid and alkaline solutions are inca- pable of effecting any precipitation of this ex- tract from its solution in water. Protochloride of tin, nitrate of silver, and di-acetate of lead, produce precipitates. It may be well to mention, that if anhy- drous alcohol be digested on this extractive, which has been called osmazome, it is capable of being divided into two portions; the one soluble and the other insoluble in that fluid. The property of being precipitated by the di-acetate of lead, nitrate of silver, and pro- tochloride of tin, belongs peculiarly to that part of the extractive matter which is soluble in anhydrous alcohol. Animal extractive soluble in water only. — This may be procured by dissolving in water an extract of urine, which has been digested with alcohol of specific gravity 0-833. By the re-solution we separate any vesical mucus, lithic acid, earthy phosphate, or silica, which may be contained in the mass. The solution * It contains an alkaline lactate. f If these salts produce a precipitate, it is because alcohol has been used of higher specific gravity than 0 833.