THORAX. 1060 inflate tliem by expanding them (removing the external atmospheric pressure), and allow the air to drop into the air vesicles by its own gravitation (as in living respiration), when they would in all probability collapse freely to their original position. When they are in- flated by expansion (the natural way of life) the delicate cells of the lungs can safely resist a force of from 3 to 9 inches of mercury, or from 40 to 121 inches of water (see next column) ; but when expanded by inflation, their collapsing power was damaged so that it could sustain only 17 or 20 inches of water. This is worthy of notice in resuscitating the apparently asphyxiated person, at which times we have long been of opinion that bellows and pumps are highly dangerous instruments to use for maintaining artificial respiration. Of the muscular contractility of the lungs. — In the trachea transverse muscular fibres extend across posteriorly, connecting the tips of the incomplete rings of cartilage. In the smaller bronchi they encircle the whole tubes, and there appears to be little doubt but that these circular fibres are to be found in every part of the air tubes as far as the terminal air vesicles. Physiologists have disputed whether these fibres are muscular or not; if muscular, they are important agents in respiration, acting as a series of little expiratory muscles. Dr. C. J. B. Williams lately read a paper at the meeting of Glasgow (September 1840), upon the subject.* He experimented upon the lungs of some of the lower animals, — several dogs, a rabbit, a bullock, a horse, &c, — as soon as possible after death, submitting their lungs to galvanic stimuli, and securing a haemadynamometer with a stop-cork to the trachea. He found that, upon applying this stimulus, the fluid in the bent tube rose from 1 to 2 inches, and it immediately fell on break- ing contact. This effect could only be pro- duced by muscular contraction. Kolliker, a very accurate observer, confirms these views. \ He found in man, in the larger and finer bronchial tubes, a coat formed of annular fibres, in one or more layers according to the size of the tube, consisting of unstriped muscular fibres ; and over this coat a thin layer of fibro-cellular tissue with nucleus-fibres. He found no mus- cular fibres directed longitudinally. He ob- serves, " In former observations I thought I had convinced myself of the existence of unstriped muscular fibres in the air-cells; but in my resumed examination of the lungs of man and mammalia, I can with certainty see nothing distinctly characteristic as such mus- cular tissue." Our knowledge of these cir- cular muscular fibres was first chiefly derived from the researches of Reisseissen. Laennec considered spasmodic asthma to be assignable * The Pathology and Diagnosis of Diseases of the Chest, 8vo. by Dr. C. J. B. Williams, 1840, Lon- don, p. 320. ■f Beiti-age zur Kenntniss der glatten Muskeln in the Zeitschrift fur Wissenschaftliehe Zoologie, H. i. S. 40. 8vo, 1848. to a spasm of these circular fibres. We are as yet ignorant of the possible extent of contrac- tion of these fibres. The discharge of air is paramount, and that from the most remote vesi- cle ; and we know that by no mechanial means can we obtain this, and therefore a molecular power is necessary, which we readily imagine can be obtained by these tissues acting so as to give a peristaltic motion, and thus dis- placing from every individual vesicle the de- licate stream of air necessary to be dis- charged. We do not need these tissues for inspiration, because the atmosphere, by its mere weight, can penetrate into the most remote air-cell, overcoming all the friction against the sides of the air-tubes. The in- spiratory volumes of air are but for one pur- pose, to aerate the blood ; but the expiratory volumes are for the voice and other purposes sometimes requiring great force to aid in cer- tain expulsive efforts. Of Respiratory Muscular Power.— Young falls into an error in supposing " that in muscles of the same kind the strength must be as the number of fibres, or as the extent of the surface which would be formed by cutting the muscle across ; and it is not improbable that the contractile force of the muscles of a healthy man is equivalent to about 500 lbs. for every square inch of the section." * When we examine men we find no such calculations are to be relied upon. It is very common to find two men of cor- responding dimensions produce very different effects upon any dynamic instrument. The respiratory power may or may not cor- respond with the general development of mus- cular force. We have submitted 1.500 men of various classes to an experiment upon the inspiratory and expiratory power. The resistance to this power was a column of mercury,—theheemady- namometer, or bent tube, first used by Dr. Hales. He observes, " A man, by a peculiar action of his mouth and tongue, may suck mercury 22 inches, and some men 27 or 28 inches, high ; yet I have found by experience that, by the bare inspiring action of the dia- phragm and dilating thorax, I could scarcely raise the mercury 2 inches." -j- Hales appa- rently never tested the expiratory power. We connected the column of mercury with the index on a dial plate, which represented the inches and tenths of inches of mercury lifted. A tube was adapted to fit the nostrils through which the inspiratory or expiratory effort was made. By the former the index was moved in one direction, and by the latter in the con- trary direction; each half of the dial plate representing, respectively, inspiratory and ex- piratory power, with expressive words at- tached, as follow : — (See top of next page.) It will be observed that the figures on each side of the same word differ in their value, those ofthe expiratory side ranging about one- third higher than those on the inspiratory side. * See Nat. Phil. Lond. 8vo, 1845, p. 99. t Stat., vol. i. p. 267.