SLEEP. C88 arch-fiend appeared in his sleep, and was challenged by him to a trial of skill : the dreamer lay entranced by the transcendent performance of his visitor, which surpassed anything he had ever heard or conceived ; on awaking, however, he could not reproduce the succession of notes, although he imme- diately seized his violin, and endeavoured to do so ; but, under the strong general impres- sion of what he had heard, he produced a new composition, which retains the name of the " Devil's Sonata." But, although dreams may possess a re- markable coherence, whether as regards pro- cessses of reasoning, or the new combinations of the imagination, the general fact is, that such coherence is altogether wanting, and that there is a complete incongruousness in the thoughts and images which pass through our minds. All probabilities, and even possibilities of" time,place, and circuinstance"are violated; the dead pass before us as if alive and well ; even the sages of antiquity hold personal con- verse with us ; our friends at the antipodes are brought upon the scene, or we ourselves are conveyed thither, without the least per- ception of distance ; and the strangest combi- nations of reality and fancy are presented, either as objects passing before our con- sciousness, or as affecting our own condition. But of this incongruity we are seldom in the least aware. We are not capable of testing the probability or possibility of the phenomena by our ordinary experience. And, as a conse- quence of this, nothing surprises us in dreams ; the feeling of surprise being the result, and indeed the measure, of our perception of the unlikelihood of a phenomenon. Not only is there usually a want of congruity in the in- tellectual processes, but a great disturbance in the ordinary play of the emotions. " Thus, in our dreams we may walk on the brink of a precipice, or see ourselves doomed to imme- diate destruction by the weapon of a foe or the fury of a tempestuous sea, and yet feel not the slightest emotion of fear ; though, during the perfect activity of the brain, we may be naturally disposed to the strong manifestation of this feeling. Again, we may see the most extraordinary object or event without surprise, perform the most ruthless crime without com- punction, and see what in our waking hours would cause us unmitigated grief, without the smallest feeling of sorrow."* This is, how- ever, by no means uniformly the case. In fact, our emotions in the dreaming state are often highly wrought; and it frequently seems that the excitement of some particular emotion gives the direction to the whole train of thought, and causes it to possess an unusual coherence and probability. This is most remarkable, perhaps, when the emotion in question has greatly occupied the mind in the previous waking hours. Thus, a female, whose husband is at sea, and for whose safety she naturally feels anxious, especially in stormy weather, is very apt to dream of shipwreck and all its at- * Prof. Wheatstone, quoted in Elliotson's Phy- siology, p. 621. tendant circumstances; or, on the other hand, a man in love dreams of his mistress, of married life, and of its various enjoyments. Even here, however, the congruity is frequently in- terrupted by the intervention of some strange occurrence; the oddity of which may be per- ceived by the dreamer as being discordant, not with the intellectual but with the emotional state. In simple dreaming, as there is a loss of voluntary control over the current of thought, so is there an absence of control over the muscular system. Movements expressive of emotions, however, may still take place, and may afford to the by-stander an indication of what is passing in the mind of the dreamer. The indications of fear, horror, or disgust, or of hope, rapture, or desire, — laughter or weeping, smiles or frowns,— may all display themselves, when there is an absolute cessation of all vo- luntary movements. This is remarkably the case in attacks of incubus, or nightmare ; in which the dreamer is oppressed by intolerable distress, from which he makes vain attempts to free himself. His distress may be expressed by moans, or by the agitation of his coun- tenance ; but none of his fancied efforts are indicated by any respondent movements. This condition may subside into a state of tranquil slumber, or the agitation may increase to such a pitch as to awake the sufferer ; and as the first act of the waking state is usually to cry out or kick violently, it has been supposed that the return of volition has been the cause, instead of being the effect, of the cessation of the op- pressive dream. There are cases, however, in which the dreamer executes movements in consonance with ideas passing through his mind, — such as would, in the waking state, be termed voluntary ; but these must be con- sidered as belonging rather to the category of somnambulism than to that of simple dreaming. The direction of the current of thought in dreaming is often given by impressions on the organs of sense, which influence the mental operations, by calling up associated ideas, without being recognized and perceived as distinct sensations. Thus, Dr. James Gre- gory, having applied a hot bottle to his feet on going to bed, dreamt that he was walking up Etna and finding the ground intolerably hot. On another occasion, he dreamt of spending a winter at Hudson's Bay, and of suffering much distress from the intense frost; this evidently the consequence of his having thrown off the bed-clothes in his sleep, and of his having been reading, a few days before, a very particular account of the state of the colonies in that country during winter. Dr. Keid, having a badly-dressed blister on his head, dreamt that he was being scalped by Indians ; and a man in a damp bed, that he was being dragged through a stream. A gouty man, when beginning to feel his pain in his sleep, may dream he is on the rack before inquisitors. The sound of music may excite delightful dreams. M. Girou de Buzarein- gues* made some curious experiments on * Journal de Physiologic, torn. viii.