STATISTICS. known, that both posture and time of day have a remarkable influence on the number of the pulse. Or, to take another case, we wish to ascertain the influence of some employment upon health (say that of the letter-press printer); but we overlook the important fact, that in every printing office, two or three very distinct occupations are carried on, of which the most important are those of the com- positor and pressman. Not being fully aware of this fact, and of the wide difference exist- ing between the two employments, we pro- ceed to extract from some mortuary register the ages at death of printers as a class, calcu- late the average age at death, and then proceed to group the whole class of printers with that large class of occupations carried on in-doors, with little bodily exertion, to which the com- positor alone properly belongs, but from which the pressman is, by the nature of his employment, excluded. In this case, we should have been misled by the common name borne by men following two really dis- tinct occupations, and our facts would again cease to be comparable facts. A third and apt illustration is afforded by the Asiatic cholera. We wish to compare two different remedies or plans of treatment ; but we administer the one remedy, or adopt the one plan, at the onset of the epidemic, and the other during its decline. Here, again, our facts are not comparable facts; for it is one of the well- known characteristics of this disease, that it is more severe on its first occurrence than during the period of its decline. The same sort of error would be committed, if one remedy were administered in an early, and the other in an advanced, stnge of the attacks themselves. The principle which these illus- trations are intended to enforce, is the ne- cessity of selecting, as the elements of the same average, facts strictly comparable, or, in other words, brought about by the same com- bination of causes. Over the intensity with which each cause acts in individual instances, the observer can exercise no control. His province is to ascertain that the same com- bination of causes is at work to bring about each phenomenon or event. If from ignor- ance or oversight he fails in this duty, he im- pairs the value of his facts, and vitiates his inferences in proportion to the number and force of the conditions that he has overlooked or omitted. In the observation and collection, therefore, of the individual phenomena or events which are to serve as materials for our average re- sults, the first precaution to be observed if, that those phenomena or events should be strictly comparable ag regards the combination of causes by which they are brought about; or, as the French statists express it, we must ensure " I'invariabiliie de V'ensemble des causes possibles." The frequent omission of this most necessary precaution has given birth to the dogma of Morgagni — Kon numeranda; sedper- pendenda; stint obseivationes — and to the most valid objections urged against the applica- tion of the numerical method in medicine. For the collection, arrangement, and classifi- cation of the facts which are to form the ma- terials of our averages, no concise rules can be laid down. The tabular forms must adapt themselves to the exigencies of each individual inquiry ; and must be more or less compli- cated as the subjects of investigation con- sist of few or many particulars. In reporting cases, for instance, and in collecting and analyzing those recorded by others, tabular forms embracing many particulars are re- quired ; and the preparation of such forms demands unusual skill and care.* The same remarks apply to the collection and classifi- cation of recorded experiences and opinions bearing on particular subjects of inquiry \ ; a numerical summary of authorities favourable and adverse to particular doctrines, consti- tuting what may be not inaptly termed the statistics of opinion. 2. Of the average and, extreme results de- duced from observation. — The observer having exercised all due care in the observation of his facts, having grouped together only those events which owned the same combination of antecedents or causes ; and having further correctly performed the work of enumeration, has thus obtained certain average and extreme results, which are to constitute standards of comparison and data for reasoning ; the question naturally arises — are these average and extreme results sound and trustworthy standards and data, or not; and what are the circumstances which render them the one or the other ? Common sense and experience combine to give an authoritative answer to this question. Our average and extreme re- sults are more or less sound and trustworthy, as the individual facts from which they have been calculated are more or less numerous. Where the facts upon which it is attempted to found a general principle, or to establish a standard of comparison, are very few, we are at once conscious of their insufficiency ; and the more readily when an attempt is made to apply the principle or standard in question to some important practical purpose. A better illus- tration of the futility of such an attempt can scarcely be found than the well-known test of Ploucquet. That author proposed to deter- mine whether or not a child was still-born by referring every doubtful case to a standard of comparison, founded upon three observ- * On this subject the late Dr. Todd, of Brighton, has written a very able work, which may be safely recommended to all who desire to enter upon such complicated investigations. The title of this work is: — The Book of Analysis, or a New Method of Experience, whereby the Induction of the Novum Organon is made easy of Application to Medicine, Physiology, Meteorology, and Natural History; to Statistics, Political Economy, Metaphysics, and the more complex Departments of Knowledge. By Tweedy John Todd, M.D., of the Royal College of Physicians of London, &c. &c. 1831. t Reference may here be made to a paper pub- lished in the 3rd volume of the Journal of the Statistical Society of London, " On the best Method of Collecting and Arranging Facts, with a proposed Now Plan of Common - Place Book." By the Author of this Essay.