VARIETIES OF MANKIND. 1329 nations are composed of an assemblage of tribes inhabiting a mountainous country, speak- ing languages almost unintelligible to each other, and remarkably isolated from the na- tions which inhabit the countries border- ing on theirs. The beauty of form and feature, and the delicacy of complexion, which charac- terise individuals and families among these Fig. 826. Portrait of a young Circassian, belonging to the suite of the Persian Ambassador. (From a portrait taken in Paris by M. A. Colin.) tribes, are well known {fig. 826.) and have led to a regular consignment of the youth of both sexes to the Turkish market, the females to be introduced into the harems, whilst the youths are valued for their superior energy and intelligence, and are frequently adopted as sons. But these attributes are for the most part confined to the families of the chiefs; and they are carefully cherished by exemp- tion from labour, and by seclusion from undue exposure. The common people, who are en- gaged in the cultivation of the soil, are de- scribed by travellers as being for the most part coarse and unshapely.—Now from a careful comparison and analysis of the lan- guages of these races, Dr. Latham and Mr. Norris have independently arrived, on different grounds (the one from the ivords and the other from the grammar), at the same result; namely, that they are aptotic, or destitute of inflexions, like the Chinese ; and that the people must have been of Mongolian origin, but separated from the common stock at a very early period ; the perpetuation of the low development of their language being fa- voured by the peculiar characters of the VOL. IV. country in which they located themselves, whilst these same characters tended to modify their physical conformation. For the area which they occupy is at once temperate, mountainous, and wooded ; " in other words," as Dr. Latham remarks, " the reverse of the true Mongol areas." And thus, if this view should be confirmed, we must regard the very people which has been selected as fur- nishing the type of the most perfect con- formation, as an improved race of a decidedly inferior stock. The Negro type is one which is not unfre- quently cited as an example of the perma- nence of the physical characters of races, and especially of types of cranial conformation. The existing Ethiopian physiognomy is said to agree with the representations transmitted to us from the remotest times in Egyptian pictures ; and this physiognomy, it is further maintained, continues to be transmitted un- changed from parent to child, even where the transportation of a Negro population to tem- perate climates and civilised associates (as in the United States of America) has entirely changed the external conditions of their ex- istence. Now it is perfectly true that the Negro races which continue to inhabit their original localities, and maintain their barba- rous habits of life, retain the prognathous type ; and this is precisely what we should expect. But it is not true that no modifica- tion has taken place in them, either under the influence of civilisation, or from a change in the physical conditions of their existence. For the most elevated forms of skull occurring among the African nations, are fouad in those which have emerged in a greater or less degree from their original barbarism; their civilis- ation having been due to external influences brought to bear upon them. We shall here- after see that there is strong evidence that even the Syro-Arabian or Semitic nations may be referred to the African stock; at any rate, there are numerous tribes in the interior of Africa, whose affinity with the true Negroes cannot be disputed, and which yet present a far superior cranial organisation ; so that we must either regard the one form to be the result of improvement, or the other to have preceded from degeneration. In regard to the transplanted Negroes, it is obvious that the time which has elapsed since their re- moval, is as yet too short to justify us in ex- pecting any considerable alteiation in cranial configuration. Many of the Negroes now living in the West Indian islands are natives of Africa ; and a large prt:p jrtion of the Negro population, both there and in the United States, are removed by no more than one or two descents from their African progenitors. The climate, too, of the southern states of the North American Union, as of the West Indies, is not very different from that of the Guinea Coast, in regard to temperature ; and the low undrained character of much of the soil which they are employed in cultivating, still further tends to keep up the correspond- ence. Still, according to the concurrent 4 Q