URINE. 1280 portion of water diminished. Specific gravity less than in a. Solid matters also less in the twenty-four hours. Uric acid in normal proportion. All other constituents absolutely but not relatively diminished. This urine is then less concentrated than that of health. It is deeply coloured, often turbid from deposit of uric acid. It occurs in adynamic fevers. y. Febrile urine containing tlie natural pro- portion of water. — Urea and fixed salts dimi- nished in proportion. Uric acid and other organic matters normal. Specific gravity low. Colour deep. No sediment. 2. Anaemic urine. — a. True ancemic urine.— Warer in the twenty-four hours nearly normal. Solids discharged much less than in health. Urea, uric acid, and fixed salts diminished. Other organic matters decreased in slighter Urine in disease may not only show a degree than the above. Specific gravity low. tendency to deposit matters of an insoluble Colour light. No sediment, character in the form of urinary deposits or 0. — Concentrated ancemic urine.—Water in calculi, but it may also contain in solution an twenty-four hours diminished, although the excess or deficiency of any one or more of its solids are then relatively increased, still they normal constituents. There may likewise be are absolutely diminished. Urea, uric acid, present in solution matters altogether foreign ami fixed salts especially diminished. Other to the healthy constitution of the fluid. The organic matters less so. Urine of livid or urine in disease may then, so far as its dis- greenish tint. solved matters are concerned, be considered 3. Alkaline urine.—Distinguished by alkaline in two points of view, viz. 1. Excess or defi- reaction on test paper. Odour ammoniacal: cieney of normal constituents ; 2. Presence occurs in acute and chronic nephritis, diseases of matters not existing in healthy urine. of the bladder with secretion of pus, and in I shall proceed to notice the state of the certain cerebral diseases; occasionally in the urine in those forms of disease in which it " morbus Brightii." has received attention, and shall quote from 4. Urine nearly normal. — Nearly that of the work of Franz Simon, who not only health. Occurs in mild disorders unaccom- laboured long and well on the subject, but panied by fever. collected much valuable information relating With respect to this classification of Bec- to it. Before doing this, however, I must querel, it may be observed that the heads of notice the ingenious attempt made by Bee- arrangement by no means embrace all the querel to classify all diseased conditions of forms of diseased urine met with in practice, urine under four heads, viz. 1. Febrile urine ; —an end, indeed, which will scarcely be com- 2. Anaemic urine ; 3. Alkaline urine ; 4. Urine passed by any attempts of the kind. There but slightly varying from the conditions of appears no advantage in making such clas- health. sifieations; and indeed much evil must result I will shortly notice the principal cha- from the necessary endeavour which will be racters of these four varieties. made in such a table to place diseases under 1. Febrile urine. — a. Febrile urine, strictly headings which either imperfectly or incor- speaking.—The proportion of water passed rectly express their real character. The table, in the twenty-four hours less than in health, however, is of some value, as showing the Solid matters slightly diminished in propor- general results obtained in fevers and in tion. Urea and inorganic salts deficient, anaemia ; but further than this the student Uric acid increased in proportion. Colour need not regard it. high. Specific gravity above the normal The following introductory remarks by Franz standard. Often turbid from lithates. Some- Simon are extremely valuable, and will well times contain albumen. repay the reader for the trouble taken in their This latter statement of Becquerel's must careful perusal. I transcribe them from Dr. be received with some reservation. Thus I Day's translation for the Sydenham Society: — have several times known a deposit produced " In inflammatory affections, and in those in urine in adynamic forms of fever on the diseases which are accompanied by that form addition of nitric acid, which proved, on ex- of fever which is termed sthenic or synochal, animation, to be lithic acid and not albumen. the urine differs greatly in its properties from The following are the conditions in which, normal urine. In speaking of the probable according to Becquerel, the urine assumes cause of the changed constitution of the blood the febrile character ; viz., in chronic and acute in the phlogoses, I showed that it is not to be inflammations; in diseases of the liver, heart, referred to the diseased organ, but to the re- and lungs; in haemorrhages, and in organic action which manifests itself throughout the degenerations of organs resulting from fever vascular system. If the change in the Con- or long functional derangement. stitution of the blood bears an accurate and /8. Febrile urine, with debility. — The pro- inseparable relation to the fever, there can be Under 10 years of age Between 10 and 20 20 and 30 - 3') and 40 - 40 and 50 - 50 and (50 - 60 and 70 - 70 and 80 - 136 65 35 34 37 28 18 83 281 106 48 48 47 96 70 500-| 192 104 94 112 145 97 12 355497 7044256 J O -a a