VARIETIES OF MANKIND. 1301 provement is manifested in the species at large. One of the most important aids in the use and development of the human mind, is the capacity for articulate speech; of which, so far as we know, man is the only animal in possession. There is no doubt that many other species have certain powers of com- munication between individuals; but these are probably very limited, and of a kind more allied to the " language of signs," than to a proper verbal language. In fact it is obvious that the use of a language composed of a cer- certain number of distinct sounds, combined into words in a multitude of different modes, requires a certain degree of that power of abstraction and generalisation, in which (as elsewhere remarked*) it appears that the lower animals are altogether deficient. The correspondence between the psychical endow- ments of the Chimpanzee and those of the Human infant before it begins to speak, is extremely close ; and those who have perused the interesting narrative given by Dr. Howe, of his successful training of Laura Bridgeman, will remember how marked was the improve- ment in her mental condition, from the time when she first apprehended the idea that she could give such expression to her thoughts, feelings and desires, as should secure their being comprehended by others. Now, this capacity for progress is con- nected with another element in Man's nature, which it is difficult to isolate and define, but which interpenetrates and blends with his whole psychical character. " The soul,'' it has been remarked, "is that side of our nature which is in relation with the infinite ;" and it is the existence of this relation, in whatever way we may describe it, which seems to con- stitute the most distinctive peculiarity of man. It is in the desire for an improvement in his condition, occasioned by an aspiration after something nobler and purer, that the main- spring of human progress may be said to lie; among the lowest races of mankind, the capa- city exists, but the desire seems dormant. When once thoroughly awakened, however, it seems to " grow by what it feeds on ;" and the advance once commenced, little external stimulus is needed; for the desire increases at least as fast as the capacity. In the higher grades of mental development, there is a con- tinual looking upwards, not (as in the lower) towards a more elevated human standard, but at once to something beyond and above man and material nature. This seems the chief source of the tendency to believe in some unseen existence ; which may take various forms, but seems never entirely absent from any race or nation, although, like other innate tendencies, it may be deficient in individuals. Attempts have been made by some travellers to prove that particular nations are destitute of it ; but such assertions have been based only upon a limited acquaintance with their habits of thought, and with their outward observances ; for there are probably none * See Art. Instinct, vol. iii. p. 2. who do not possess the idea of some invisible power, external to themselves, whose favour they seek, and whose anger they deprecate, by sacrifice and other ceremonials. It re- quires a higher mental cultivation than is commonly met with, to conceive of this power as having a spiritual existence ; but wherever the idea of spirituality can be de- fined, it seems connected with it. The vulgar readiness to believe in demons, ghosts, &c. is only an irregular or depraved manifestation of the same tendency. Closely connected with it, is the desire to participate in this spiritual existence, which has been implanted in the mind of man, and which, developed as it is by the mental cultivation that is almost necessary for the formation of the idea, has been regarded by philosophers in all ages as one of the chief natural arguments for the immortality of the soul. By this immortal soul, Man isconnected with that higher order of being, in which Intelligence exists, un- restrained in its exercise by the imperfections of that corporeal mechanism through which it here operates; and to this state, — a state of more intimate communion of mind with mind, and of creatures with their Creator, — he is encouraged to aspire, as the reward of his improvement of the talents here committed to his charge. II. Of Species and Varieties, zoologi- cally CONSIDERED. The meaning which the scientific Na- turalist attaches to the term Species, is not always defined in the same manner, although the notions which the various definitions are intended to convey, are for the most part essentially similar. Thus a species has been described as " a race of animals or of plants, marked by any peculiar character which has always been constant and undeviating ;" it being obvious, from this definition, which carries us backwards from the present to the past, that the first parents or " protoplasts " of such a race must have been distinguished by the same characters as those by which their descendants are now recognised. But, again, this community of parentage is made by Cuvicr to constitute the leading idea con- veyed by the term ; for he defines a species to be " the collection of all the beings de- scended the one from the other, or from com- mon parents ; and of those which bear as close a resemblance to these, as they bear to each other." "We are under the necessity," he elsewhere remarks, " of admitting the exist- ence of certain forms, which have perpetuated themselves from the beginning of the world, without exceeding the limits first prescribed; all the individuals belonging to one of these forms, constitute what is termed a species." And M. De Candolle, in like manner, ob- serves that " we unite, under the designation of a species, all those individuals which mu- tually bear to each other so close a resem- blance, as to allow of our supposing that they may have proceeded originally from a single i o 3