834 SUPRA-RENAL CAPSULES. object is fulfilled by this united condition of the nerve fibres. In Birds, the structure of these vascular glands is even more uniform than in the pre- ceding classes. No separation into cortical and medullary substance appears to occur in any bird. A single observation of Meckel's states that in the Cassowary the two kinds of substance are to be distinguished ; but this statement is contradicted by the numerous negative observations of Cuvier, Ecker, Bar- deleben, and Nagel, on all the animals of this class which they have examined, and hence it requires a confirmation. The supra-renal capsules of birds appear of a darkish or clearer yellow colour, which, by the varying amount of blood they contain, tends more or less towards red. They are also enclosed in a sheath of areolar tissue, and exhibit a basis which consists of fibrous tissue and blood- vessels. In this matrix the gland-vesicles lie imbedded throughout the whole thickness of the organ, and they are devoid of any regular arrangement. They are of roundish, oval, pear-shaped, or irregular form. Their size varies from 44 to 56-1000ths of a line, and in the Falco tinnunculus some of them even attain the size of 22-100ths of a line. Their membrana propria is very delicate. The structure here specified may be best wit- nessed in the supra-renal capsules of large birds ; nevertheless, with some care, we may succeed in recognising the gland-vesicles in the smaller members of the class, as, for instance, in the Pigeon. The contents of their gland-vesicles closely resemble those of the Mammalia. There are the same fine pulverulent molecules of a pro- tein compound ; and fatty granules, which are usually in very large quantity, have a yel- lowish colour, and give rise to the tint pos- sessed by the whole organ. Not unfrequently larger yellow drops of fat are visible. Besides these, we come upon the granular nuclei pre- viously mentioned, possessing a size of 22 to 31-10,000ths of a line. Some of these nuclei are also enveloped in a fine granular mass, and exhibit a transition to cells in the mode which we witnessed in the Mammalia. Not unfrequently the nuclei are completely buried in fatty granules, through which they are only visible as clear spots. In the golden Eagle Ecker remarked complete cells filled with fatty granules ; these were probably caused by the usually finely granular cells becoming gradually filled with fat. In many of the gland-vesicles, on the contrary, the fat is re- markably diminished in its proportion to the finely granular substance ; and it has been conjectured by Ecker, and with great pro- bability, that this difference in the amount of fat depends upon the different stages of deve- lopment of the gland-vesicles. In a very young Pigeon I have found scarcely any fat molecules, a fact which has some connection with this statement. The minute anatomy of the supra-renal capsules of the Reptilia is as yet insuffi- ciently known. In the supra-renal capsules of Lacerta agilis, Ecker was with some difficulty able to re- cognise the same condition as that seen in the higher Vertebrata; but the presence of a membrana propria around the gland-vesicles was especially indistinct. He only remarked masses of a darkish substance. These masses consisted of fatty granules of the nuclei al- ready described, and of granulated globules, which contained a nucleus, and possessed a size of 31 to 44~10,000ths of a line. In the Adder, the obscurity of the contents uncommonly aggravates the difficulty of ex- amining their lobulated supra-renal capsules ; but in the foetal Adder of three inches length, Ecker was able to verify the separate gland- vesicles in the usual manner. Here also nuclei were seen; and, besides these, kirge pale gland-cells, which could not long resist the action of water. Other cells were com- pletely buried in fatty masses, just as they were seen to be in the carnivorous Mammalia. The arrangement of the vessels of the supra-renal capsules is peculiar in the Snakes, inasmuch as the greater part of the blood is not brought to the organ by means of ar- teries, but by veins. In consequence of this, the supra-renal capsules have a kind of portal venous system, such as is possessed by the kidneys of Reptilia and the liver of Verte- brata. The afferent supra-renal veins arise by two branches from the wall of the body, and from the plexus venosus of the vertebral canal ; and after a tolerably long and isolated course they reach the supra-renal capsules. On an average, the right supra-renal capsule receives two or three branches ; but the left, which is wont to be smaller, only one or two. The arterial blood is brought to the supra- renal capsule by one or two vessels which are branches from the aorta. Both kinds of vessels ramify in the sub- stance of these organs, so as to form a fine capillary network. The efferent supra-renal veins arise from this network in the form of numerous small trunks. They pass from the right supra-renal capsule immediately into the vena cava posterior; but from that of the left side into the inferior cava, and also into the efferent renal vein. In his examinations of the Testudo grasca, Ecker found certain bodies, which he regards as the supra-renal capsules of the Chclonian reptiles. By microscopic examination, they appear as yellow granules which are grouped together in heaps. Each of these is en- closed in a membrana propria, and thus con- stitutes a gland-vesicle. Their contents are altogether identical with those of the Batra- chia, to which we shall next apply ourselves. In the tailless Batrachia, the yellow lobules already described consist of groups of vesicles. Their form varies ; sometimes it is round, sometimes oval, sometimes elongated or irre- gular. The vesicles are always closed, and it is only when they are grouped together that they appear at first sight like blind sacs. Fatty granules constitute the greater part of their contents ; but besides these, the fine