848 SYMMETRY. and ordinarily well-developed state of the subject attested the insignificance of this trans- position in respect to the well-being of the individual. Such cases are most interesting from this consideration,—that all the unsym- metrical organs are transposed. There is, I believe, no instance on record of one, or two, or less than the whole of the unsymmetrieal organs occupying the side which is not their usual one. This prompts the belief that the side which these organs shall respectively oc- cupy is determined by a single impulse first given to one of them. Abnormal deviations from symmetry are of extremely frequent occurrence. The blood- vessels of the body are very rarely perfectly symmetrical. In the adult subject the two sides of the body rarely match exactly in ex- ternal form. The right hand is usually larger than the left. Accidental circumstances oc- curring to an individual frequently disturb the symmetry, but it is by no means uncommon to meet with evidence of hereditary trans- mission of aberrations from symmetry. Such monstrosities as supernumerary fingers and toes are sometimes symmetrical, but just as frequently, perhaps more frequently, the mon- strosity exists on one side alone. Comparative Anatomy.—I pass on now hastily to notice such deviations from sym- metry as are met with in the normal conditions of the lower animals belonging to the ver- tebrate sub-kingdom, and to examine the question of symmetry in the other sub-king- doms. In all Mammalia there is much the same departure from symmetry in the viscera of the chest and abdomen as is found in the human subject ; but in no other mammal is the lateral displacement so great as in man, for in all others there is a greater proportionate antero- posterior depth of chest and belly. The only other notable instances of a-symmetry known to exist in the mammalian class are the fol- lowing : — In the male narwhal or sea-unicorn the left front incisortooth attains the enormous length of eight or ten feet, while the right one is found as a rudiment that never pierces the gum. Spirals in the middle line are departures from symmetry ; consequently' the spiral penis of the boar, &c. must be regarded as instances of a-symmetry; a slight excess in length of one of the halves is sufficient to produce this spiral form. The left nostril of most of the Ce- tacea is constantly much larger than the right. In Birds there is much the same want of symmetry in the viscera of the trunk as is met with in mammals. The right one of the se- cond pair of embryonic aortic arches however is retained instead of the left, so that the adult aorta arches over the right bronchus. But notwithstanding this, the left ventricle is the systemic one, and presents the same excess over the right, in the thickness of its walls, as in Mammalia. Both of the ductus Cuvieri are retained and form two superior vence cava. The liver is situated mesially, that is to say, its great fissure and falciform ligament are in the middle line ; but its left lobe is usually the larger, and in the common fowl presents a fissure which is not repeated in the right. The oesophagus diverges slightly towards the right, but the cardiac orifice of the stomach is to the left of the pyloric. The long loop described by the duodenum, and the pancreas which is surrounded by it, are found extending diagon- ally across the abdomen in front of the other bowels, their extremity resting in the left iliac fossa, but they are not fixed in this position. The gall bladder is situated as in Mammalia. There being no great omentum, the spleen occupies its typical position behind the sto- mach. There is usually a disparity in the length of the pair of caeca met with in this class. But the most remarkable exception to sym- metry in the class Aves is that which exists in thefemale generative organs. The left ovary and oviduct alone are functionally evolved, whilst the right, becoming atrophied at an early period, are barely traceable in the adult ani- mal. A few instances are on record where these right lateral homologues of the ovary and oviduct have been found evolved in func- tional size as a testicle and vas deferens, thus forming lateral hermaphrodism. The male generative organs of birds are all symmetrical except the penis, when it exists, which is spiral. Another instance of want of symmetry is presented by the beak of some birds, as the cross-bill, &c. Reptiles. — The heart of reptiles is situ- ated in the middle line, but it is not symme- trical in form, nor do the great blood-vessels enter and quit it in a perfectly symmetrical manner ; they however approach more nearly to symmetry in this class than in any of those which have been previously considered. In all reptiles there are at first two aortae, sym- metrically disposed, arching over the right and left bronchi respectively, and uniting with one another to form one trunk on the spine. The vessels given off from these are, however, most generally not symmetrical, the head and front limbs being supplied frequently from the right arch alone, and the chylopoietic viscera from the left alone. The pulmonary arteries arise behind the origin of the aortas. The lungs of reptiles are usually two symmetrical organs, but in the Ophidia the left lung, when it exists, is much shorter than the right, and in some, as Coluber thiringicus, it is wanting altogether, the only vestige of it being a caecal depression on the left side of the lower end of the trachea ; this absence of the left lung entails, of course, the loss of the left pulmonary vessels. The stomach and bowels of the Chelonia, owing to the flattened form of the animals, are nearly as much laterally displaced as in the human subject. In the other reptiles they are not much out of symmetry, yet in none are they exactly symmetrical. The car- diac end of the stomach tends, though often but a little, towards the left ; the pyloric is free, and can be brought without violence to the middle line, but yet it is always found