SLEEP. 682 moderate degree of warmth favours sleep ; perhaps by increasing the energy of the heart's contractions, at the same time that the walls of the vessels are more relaxed than usual, and thus yield to the impulse. A moderate degree of cold usually has the opposite effect, more especially when the cold is sufficient to produce uneasy sensa- tions. But cold of great severity produces drowsiness, sopor, and even complete coma ; apparently by producing a contracted state of the superficial vessels of the body, and thus occasioning an increase of sanguineous pres- sure on the encephalic centres. Again, the circulation of blood charged with narcotic substances through the brain, is one of the most powerful of all hypnotising agencies; and this, again, may produce every gradation of effect, between simple sleep, from which the patient may be easily aroused, and the profoundest coma. One of the most com- mon instances of the operation of this cause, is the production of drowsiness by a deficiency of ventilation ; the carbonic acid which accu- mulates in the blood, when not freely carried off in the air, having the properties of a pow- erful narcotic. Phenomena of ordinary Sleep. — The state of perfect sleep is characterised by negative rather than by positive phenomena. As al- ready stated, it essentially consists in the complete suspension of the sensorial powers, and of all those movements in which the nervous system participates, except the simply reflex: with this is conjoined a partial or complete suspension of the functional activity of the cerebrum. According to the more or less potent operation of the. soporific causes, will be the degree of insensibility to impres- sions upon the afferent nerves. No ordinary cause, as we have already shown, is so power- ful as previous fatigue. Of the profoundness of the sleep which may result from it, — in combination, perhaps, with two other agents, warmth, and an atmosphere somewhat charged with carbonic acid, — the following remark- able example may be cited from the "Journal of a Naturalist." It may be proper to men- tion that, the correctness of the statement having been called in question, it was fully confirmed by Mr. Richard Smith, the late senior surgeon of the Bristol Infirmary, un- der whose care the sufferer had been. " A travelling man, one winter's evening, laid him- self down upon the platform of a lime-kiln, placing his feet, probably numbed with cold, upon the heap of stones, newly put on to burn through the night. Sleep overcame him in this situation ; the fire gradually rising and increasing, until it ignited the stones upon by " a state of contraction of certain mnscles of the neck." (See his Observations in Medicine, second series, p. 27.) He does not, however, offer the least proof of this hypothesis, nor does he even name the muscles or veins to which he refers. We presume that the platysma myoides and the external jugular are meant. If so, why should not a slight com- pression of the vein by any other means have the ell'ect of producing sleep at will ? which his feet were placed. Lulled by the warmth, the man slept on; the fire increased until it burned one foot (which probably was extended over a vent-hole) and part of the leg above the ancle entirely off, consuming that part so effectually, that a cinder-like fragment was alone remaining, — and still the wretch slept on ! and in this state was found by the kiln-man in the morning. Insensible to any pain, and ignorant of his misfortune, he attempted to rise and pursue his journey, but missing his shoe requested to have it found ; and when he was raised, putting his burnt limb to the ground to support his body, the extremity of his tibia crumbled into frag- ments, having been calcined into lime. Still he expressed no sense of pain, and probably experienced none, from the gradual operation of the fire, and his own torpidity during the hours his foot was consuming. This poor drover survived his misfortunes in the hos- pital about a fortnight ; but the fire having extended to other parts of his body, recovery was hopeless." It may be added that cases are recorded by medico-legal writers, in which defloration of a virgin, followed by concep- tion, has been effected whilst she was in a state of ordinary sleep, rendered unusually profound by previous fatigue; but such state- ments are obviously liable to considerable doubt, and scarcely appear entitled to cre- dence. Besides the suspension of the sensorial functions, however, there is usually a slight diminution in the activity of the functions of organic life. The heart's contractions are less frequent, but the pulse is fuller. So likewise the respiratory movements are diminished in number; but the inspirations are deeper. Less carbonic acid is produced than during a similar bodily inactivity in the waking state. As might be expected from these differences, the amount of heat generated in the body is diminished, and there is much less power of resisting the effects of cold. So remarkable is this abatement, that when the body is exposed to intense cold (as in the well-known attempt of Sir Joseph Banks and Dr. Solander to explore Terra del Fuego), " to sleep is to die." There would seem, too, to be a dimi- nution in the power of resisting other mor- bific agencies. Thus all authorities agree that sleeping in a malarious atmosphere is much more liable to engender the diseases produced by it, than spending the same length of time in the same place, but in the waking state. As a general rule, it would seem that the secreting processes go on with diminished activity during sleep ; but to this the cuta- neous transpiration is an exception, so that, in debilitated states of the system, a profuse sweating often occurs as soon as the patient falls asleep. From this diminished activity of the organic functions it happens that hun- ger is not renewed so speedily after sleep as when the same number of hours have been passed in watching; a fact well known to those who are liable to suffer habitually or occasionally from the want of food. In this