853 SYMPATHY. 3 I 3 supposition of some such similar consent between different or even distant parts in the same person. Motions or sensations caused in certain parts, in consequence of a primary irritation of other and distant parts, are of, the sym- pathetic kind. These motions or sensations are produced in, as it were, an indirect or circuitous manner, or one different from that in which they are ordinarily excited. Thus a stimulus to the olfactory membrane causes a peculiar affection of the sense of smell, and occasions that depression of the heart's action, from which results a state of syncope. Or another affection of the same sense causes a suddenly increased action of the salivary glands. If we analyse any one of these examples of sympathetic actions, it will appear that three circumstances may be noticed in the produc- tion of the phenomena: 1st, the primary exciting cause, which may be an object pre- sented to the mind through one of the organs of sense, or causing an impression upon any sensitive nerve, and therefore upon some part of the centre of sensation; 2ndly, the part affected directly by this primary stimulus ; and, 3rdly, the action or sensation resulting from the affection of this part. Many other sensations or motions may be enumerated besides those above referred to, whether occurring in health or in disease; and we shall give examples of these before we discuss this subject further. The examples of sympathetic sensations which may be adduced are chiefly of the mor- bid kind. Pain is felt at a certain part, in consequence of an irritation in another part distant from it, and apparently altogether unconnected with it. A familiar instance of this is pain in the knee from disease of the hip-joint. So marked in some instances is the pain in the knee, and so much has it ab- sorbed the patient's attention, that the real seat of the disease has been overlooked, and the remedies been applied exclusively to the knee. Pain in the right shoulder, from disease of the liver, is a sympathetic sensa- tion of similar kind; and sometimes the hepatic irritation causes pain over a more extensive surface. Whytt mentions, that, in two cases of suppuration of the liver, he had seen the patients " affected with a numbness and debility of the right arm, thigh, and leg." Sometimes both shoulders are the seat of pain, from hepatic irritation. The peculiar sensations felt in the teeth from a noise which grates upon the ears, is sympathetic of the irritation of the auditory nerve. Practitioners are well aware how many morbid sensations in parts remote from the intestinal canal may be cured by the removal of scybala or other accumulations from it. Painful affections of the nerves of the face, and of other parts, are often due to a cause of this kind. The irritation of a stone in the bladder gives rise to pains in the thighs, or to itching at the end of the penis ; and uterine irritation, whether from disease or from the enlargement of that organ in con- nection with the early stage of pregnancy, causes similar pains in the nerves of the thighs. Headache and defective vision are fre- quently produced by disordered stomach. A draught of very cold water, or ice, taken quickly into the stomach, may occasion acute pain in the course of either frontal nerve. This same nerve on one side is frequently the seat of pain after the imprudent use of acid wines or other fermented liquors. Movements, excited by the operation of a stimulus applied at a distance, form a large proportion of the instances of sympathetic phenomena. All the ordinary physical ner- vous actions in which motions are excited by stimulating a sentient surface, may be regarded as examples of sympathetic actions.* The contraction of the iris upon the application of the stimulus of light to the retina, or of the pharyngeal muscles by stimulating the mucous membrane of the fauces, are instances in point where the stimulus acts indirectly upon the contracting fibre. Nothing is more sure than that in these instances the change wrought by the stimulus in certain sentient nerves, travels by a circuitous route through a nervous centre to the muscles which are called into action. Akin to these actions are the forcible respira- tory movements which may be excited by ir- ritation of the tracheal membrane, as coughing ; or sneezing, by stimulating the nasal mem- brane ; or vomiting, by irritating the fauces. Spasmodic affections are often instances of morbid actions in sympathy with intestinal irritation, or the irritation of teething in chil- dren. Partial or general convulsions are very frequently due to either or both these causes. We have known the most violent opisthotonos co-existing for a considerable time w ith the pre- sence of lumbricoid ascarides in the intestine ; but ceasing immediately on the removal of the worms. Vomiting is commonly sympathetic of diseased kidney, or of the passage of a calculus along the ureter; or of the passage of a gall-stone along the gall duct; or it may be induced by the introduction of a catheter into the urethra. The consentaneous action of symmetrical parts is no doubt due to a similar cause to that by which most of the sympathetic actions are excited, and more especially in those parts where symmetry of action is constant, al- though liable to be interrupted by the influence of the will. A distinct class of sympathetic actions con- sists of those in which certain parts enlarge or become developed simultaneously with, and to a certain extent in effect of, the increase * It has been remarked, that the term " sympa- thetic actions" involves a contradiction. J3ut it may be observed, that the contraction of the mus- cles, on which the action depends, is only the natural mode in which that class of vital organs can manifest their consent with certain states of nervous centres, or of sensitive nerves. The action is the result of the state which the muscle assumes in sympathy with the stimulated nerve. The con- tradiction is therefore apparent, not real.