758 SPINAL NERVES. the inner part of the coronoid process of the ulna, and then takes a vertical course down the fore arm, covered over by the flexor carpi ulnaris, and between it and the flexor digi- torum profundus. It gradually inclines to the surface, and at the lower third of the fore- arm becomes sub-aponeurctic, and passes from between the flexor carpi ulnaris and inner tendon of the flexor sublimis to the lower part of the anterior surface of the annular ligament, passing along it in a distinct sheath with the artery, in close contact with, and external to, the pisiform and unciform bones, and divides into its terminal branches. In the upper part of the arm the ulnar nerve is in relation with the axillary artery, which is placed between it and the median, nearer however the latter. In the upper part of the fore-arm it is about half an inch or more dis- tant from the artery, but gradually inclines, so as to come in close relation with, but internal to it, in the two lower thirds of the fore-arm, and in the palm of the hand. The ulnar gives off" no branches in the arm ; and the first that comes oft' from it, is when the nerve is placed between the two heads of the flexor carpi ulnaris. There are several small articular filaments which enter the inner part of the joint, and three or four which are distributed to the above muscle. In the upper third of the fore-arm some filaments are again given oft" to the flexor carpi ulnaris, and others for the supply of the inner half of the flexor digitorum profundus. About the mid- dle a small branch is given oft', which, after sending satellite filaments to accompany the ulnar artery, perforates the fascia, and be- comes cutaneous to communicate with the internal cutaneous. The largest branch, how- ever, given off from the ulnar, comes away about two inches above the wrist-joint, and is named, its dorsal branch (dorsalis carpi ulna- ris : internal dorsal nerve). This winds down- wards and inwards, and having passed be- tween the tendon of the flexor carpi ulnaris and the bone, perforates the fascia at the back of the fore-arm, and becomes cutaneous a little above the styloid process. It runs then along the inner edge of the carpus ; and on the posterior annular ligament terminates in two branches. The inner branch passes along the inner and back part of the metacarpal bone, and phalanges of the little finger, supply- ing the integument as far as its extremity, and sending in its course some small filaments to the abductor minimi digiti. The outer branch crosses obliquely the tendon of the extensor minimi digiti, and on the fourth interosseous space sub-divides. The inner sub-division at the extremity of the space bifurcates in order to supply the opposed sides of the little and ring finger. The outer sub-division at the lower extremity of the third interosseous space having communicated with the dorsal branch of the radial, similarly bifurcates for the supply of the integument of the opposed sides of the middle and ring finger. The dorsalis carpi ulnaris, independently of the above branches, sends numerous filaments to the inner and back part of the wrist and hand, and communicates above with the external or posterior cutaneous. The terminal branches of the ulnar nerve are two in number, a sup>erficial external, and deep internal.—The former, after a very short course, divides into two branches, a small internal, and large external. The internal branch passes along the ulnar side of the little finger to its extremity, giving filaments in its course to the muscles of the little finger. The external passes obliquely across the flexor tendons for the ring finger, gives a filament to the fourth lumbricus, and one of communication with the median, and over the fourth inter- osseous space at a variable distance from its inferior extremity bifurcates : the divisions of the bifurcation being distributed in a similar manner with the median to the opposed sur- face of the ring and little finger. The deep branch is directed backwards and outwards between the abductor minimi digiti, and the flexor brevis to the posterior aspect of the adductor minimi digiti, having first given off on the palm a small branch which sends filaments to these three muscles. It passes downwards in a curved manner, the convexity of the curve looking downwards and inwards, and after a short course passes at an acute angle behind the deep palmar arch of arteries. No branches come oft'from its con- cavity. From its convexity and back part and outer termination are derived filaments which supply the two inner lumbricales, the palmar and dorsal interossei, the adductor and flexor brevis pollicis. The deep or per- forating interosseous branches can be traced through the two layers of interossei to the skin on the back of the hand, where they com- municate with the dorsal cutaneous from the radial and ulnar nerves. The muscu/o-spiral nerve (radial) slightly larger than the median, arises from the inner and back part of the plexus, and is formed particularly by the three inferior cervical and first dorsal nerves. The trunk from which it arises also gives origin to the circumflex nerve. It passes at first from before back wards, running behind the ulnar, and in front and below the circumflex nerve, and having crossed the con- joined tendons of the teres major, and latissi- mus dorsi, inclines downwards, backwards and outwards to the posterior surface of the hu- merus, between it and the long head of the triceps. It continues gradually inclining more outwards, till it reaches the lower third of the arm where it gains the outer aspect of the bone, and here it passes forwards in company with the superior profunda artery, to the an- terior and outer aspect of the arm lying in- ternal to the outer head of the triceps which it perforates. It is now directed between the supinator longus and brachialis anticus, and then between the latter and extensor carpi radialis longior, and, having reached the outer and anterior part of the elbow- joint, divides into an anterior and posterior terminal branch. The brandies given off from the musculo-