691 SLEEP. Y Y 2 shall pass rapidly into rage, dislike to hatred, and the desire of vengeance and the calmest affection to the most transporting passion. Fear becomes terror, courage is developed into rashness which nothing checks, and which seems not to be conscious of danger, and the most unfounded doubt or suspicion becomes a certainty. The mind has a tendency to exag- gerate everything, and the slightest impulse carries it along. Those who make use of the hachisch in the East, when they wish to give themselves up to the intoxication of the fan- tasia, take great care to withdraw themselves from everything which could give to their de- lirium a tendency to melancholy, or excite in them anything else than feelings of pleasurable enjoyment. They profit by all the means which the dissolute manners of the East place at their disposal. It is in the midst of the harem, surrounded by their women, under the charm of music and of lascivious dances executed by the Almees, that they enjoy the intoxicating dawamesc ; and with the aid of superstition, they find themselves almost transported to the scene of the numberless marvels which the Prophet has collected in his Paradise."* SOMNAMBULISM. Our history of sleep would be incomplete without some account of a state which is closely allied to it, though differing from it in several important particulars. The pheno- mena of somnambulism are so varied, that it is very difficult to frame any definition capable of including them all ; and we prefer charac- terising the state by saying that it may be con- sidered as an acted dream,—differing from or- dinary dreaming in the two following points. In the first place, the train of thought is more under the direction of sensations derived from without; and, secondly, the muscular system is so completely under the control of the mind, as not merely to give expression to its emotional states, but also to act in respon- diiice to its volitions. As in dreaming, there would seem to be, in true somnambulism, a complete want of voluntary control over the current of thought, but there is not the same degree of mental activity; and in particular the operation of the associative principle is so much more restricted, that there is little or * The celebrated oriental scholar, M. Sylvestre de Sacy, appears to have made it pretty plain that our word assassin is derived from Hachischin, in the following manner. It is well known that the term was originally employed in Syria, to designate the followers of the " Old Man of'the Mountain," who were accustomed to devote themselves with blind obedience to the execution of the orders of their chief, sacrificing themselves or others with equal readiness. Their education tended in every way to impress upon them this duty; and as a reward for its performance, they were promised after death all the sensual pleasures they could imagine,—a foretaste of these being every now and then given to them by intoxicating them with hachisch, in the midst of scenes in which everything was provided to gratify their senses. In this manner, a sort of fanaticism was gradually induced, which rerjdered them fit agents of the murderous designs of their master. none of that incoherence or incongruity in the ideas brought up, which is so peculiar in ordi- nary dreaming. On the contrary, reasoning processes are often carried out with extraor- dinary clearness and correctness; the mind being intently fixed upon them to the exclu- sion of all other considerations. This exclu- siveness, indeed, is one of the most remarkable characteristics of the condition. Whilst the attention of the mind remains fixed upon any object, either perceived by the senses or brought up by the act of conception, nothing else is felt. Thus there may be complete in- sensibility to bodily pain, the somnambulist's whole attention being given to that which is passing within the mind. Yet, in an instant, by directing the attention to the organs of sense, the anaesthesia may be succeeded by the most acute sensibility. So, again, when the attention is fixed upon a certain train of thought, whatever is spoken in harmony with it is heard and appreciated by the somnam- bulist ; but whatever is in discordance with it is entirely disregarded. The character of the intellectual operations partakes of this pecu- liarity. As just now stated, the reasoning processes are usually accurately and definitely carried on, so that the conclusion will be sound, provided that the data have been cor- rect. Thus, a mathematician will work out a difficult problem, or an orator will make a speech appropriate to a given subject. But the usual defect of the intellectual operations carried on in this condition is, that, owing to their very intensity, the attention is drawn off from the considerations which ought to modify them ; and thus it happens that the result is often palpably inconsistent with the teachings of ordinary experience, and will be admitted to be so by the somnambulist when the former are brought to his mind. The state of somnambulism may pass, on the one hand, into that of ordinary dreaming, so that it is difficult to draw the line between the two. Thus, the ordinary." talking in the sleep" may be referred to one or the other condition, according to the definition of each that we may adopt. In our own arrangement, they fall under the second head: because the vocal movements are expressions of the intel- lectual processes that are taking place in the mind ; and because, in most cases of this kind, the sleep-talker hears and comprehends what is said to him, provided lhat this harmonises with what is going on within, and will answer rationally, so as to sustain a conversation. Thus, we knew a young lady at school, who frequently began to talk after having been asleep an hour or two ; her ideas almost always ran upon the events of the previous day ; and if encouraged by leading questions addressed to her, she would give a very distinct and co- herent account of them ; frequently disclosing her own peccadilloes and those of her school- fellows, and expressing great penitence for the former, whilst she seemed to hesitate about making known the latter. To all ordinary sounds, however, she seemed perfectly insen- sible. A loud noise would awake her, but