836 SUPRA-RENAL CAPSULES. the Petromyzon, Ecker only remarks, that the microscopic constituents do not afford any foundation for the view that they are supra- renal capsules. III. Development. — The supra-renal cap- sules begin at a very early date of foetal life. In the human subject they appear simul- taneously with the kidneys in the seventh week. The mode of their commencement is not yet understood with certainty. Never- theless there is scarcely any doubt that the statement of Arnold, according to which the supra-renal capsules are formed by a projec- tion of the Wolffian bodies, is erroneous. Most embryologists. as Valentin *, Bischofff, and others, find that another method of begin- ning obtains, namely, that these organs are developed from an independent blastema, which certainly lies very close to the Wolffian bodies, but has nothing at all to do with them. According to Meckel's observations, both supra-renal capsules constitute at first only a single mass ; and Valentin's researches on the embryo of the Dog and Sheep harmonise with this statement. But, nevertheless, this opinion may be founded on an error. Muller found that the supra-renal capsules of a large human foetus at the eighth week were plainly double, only they lay very closely together at their inferior part. Bischoff's extensive re- searches on the embryo of Man and other Mammalia, confirm this statement of Muller, and explain the error of Valentin and Meckel. The embryonal form of the supra-renal capsules in man is distinguished from the later condition by its being composed of large lobes; and thus, to a great extent, it resembles its permanent condition in some animals. It is highly singular that the human supra- renal capsule in the earlier period of foetal life, is not only much larger in proportion to the size of the body than it is at a later stage, but that it also considerably exceeds the kidney in size {Jig. 543.). This is shown by Fig. 543. From an embryo of 8 lines in length, a, Supra-renal capsule ; b, Kidney; c, Sexual gland ; d, Wolffian bodies. numerous observations of Meckel, Miiller, and others. In a human embryo of the ninth week, Ecker has recently made the same ob- servation. In the embryo of the tenth to the twelfth week, which measures about two inches in length, the kidneys and supra-renal * Handbuch der Entwicklungsgeschickte des Menschen, Berlin, 1835. t Entwieklungsgeschichte der Saugethiere und des Menschen, 1842, S. 291. capsules are for the first time of pretty equal size. While, on the other hand, in the sixth month the kidneys are,as was found by Meckel, already about double the size of the supra- renal capsules, and their weight is to that of these latter as five to two. And as this com- parative diminution of the supra-renal cap- sules proceeds further, the proportions by weight are in the mature embryo as three to one. And even beyond this time, they expe- rience a continual diminution, so that finally, in the adult, the supra-renal capsule is only l-28th the size of the kidney. Strange to say, this extraordinary size of these organs during the foetal period, does not obtain in the other Mammalia. In the earliest period of their embryonal life, the kidneys have always been found considerably larger than the supra-renal capsules. In them both organs appear to grow in precisely equal pro- portion to each other, so that their (compa- rative) weight remains the same in the adult animal as in the foetus. According to Ecker, the supra-renal glands of the new-born kitten are l-5Cth to 1 -60th the size of the urinary glands. So also the other classes of Vertebrata seem to accord with the Mammalia in this re- spect. At least Ecker observed, in the em- bryo and adult animal of the Coluber natrix, the same relative proportion of size between the kidney and supra-renal capsule. If we regard the situation of the supra-renal capsules in the animal kingdom, we shall find a different condition in the different classes. It is well known that the Wolffian bodies begin in the embryo at a very early period, and that these, from their structure and func- tion, must be regarded as the kidneys of the embryo ; so that the name of " primordial or original kidneys," may be applied to them with all accuracy. Now these primordial kidneys have a very different duration in the different classes of Vertebrata. In Fishes they remain as the urinary glands during the whole of life ; since in them, as Baer and Rathke found, an organ similar to the kidneys of the higher Vertebrata is never developed. The kidneys of Fishes are, therefore, pri- mordial kidneys. But in the three higher classes of Vertebrata the fact is found to be otherwise. Here the primordial kidneys pertain to only a part of the foetal life, and then make way for the true kidneys, which are situated beneath the supra- renal capsules. Therefore, the supra-renal capsules of fishes are placed on the Wolffian bodies, while in the other Vertebrata they are in connection with the kidneys. In Man, in whom the supra-renal capsules are at first uncommonly large, the primordial kidneys disappear remarkably early, so that in the second month they have vanished even to the smallest relics. The development of the tissues of these organs is as yet most incompletely known ; at present we have only a single statement of Ecker's respecting it. In a human embryo of twelve weeks, this anatomist found a very