74-2 SOLIPEDA. ■Fig. 518. Base of the Brain o f the Horse, showing the origin of the Cerebral Nerves. Organs of Generation. Male Generative Organs.— The external organs of generation in the male solipeds are remarkable for their great development, and in nearly equal pro- portion are these animals conspicuous for their vigorous and fruitful generative powers, which, however, are only called into full ac- tivity at a certain season of the year, namely, in this climate, from the beginning of April till the latter end of June, during which period he will efficiently serve fifteen or eighteen mares. The scrotum is suspended between the thighs at a distance of about nine inches be- neath the anus, whence it is prolonged for- wards, to terminate in the prepuce (£g. 518. a,f,e). The penis (Jig. 518. 6, c, d) is full a foot in length even in its undistended state, measur- ing from the bifurcation of the corpora caver- nosa (6) to the extremity of the glans (r), w hich latter organ is itself nearly half a foot in length, and four inches in circumference ; its shape is cylindrical, and it is covered with a soft and smooth skin. Fig. 518. Organs of generation of the Stallion. (After Daubenton.~) a, the scrotum ; b, e, d, the penis ; e, the prepuce ; /, /', the rudimentary mamma;; g, the left testicle removed from the scrotum ; /), the. epididymus ; i, h, the upper margin of the testis; m, vas deferens; n, vas deferens from the opposite side; o, o, enlarge- ments of the vas deferens before their termination; p, 7, tendinous bands derived from the root of the tail, these, after embracing the end of the rectum, r, run along the penis, s, as far as the prepuce, t, where they terminate ; v, the urinary bladder; x, x, vesiculue seminales; y, y, Cowper's glands. The testicles (one of which only (g) is repre- sented in the figure) are of an ovoid flattened form, each being about three inches long by two inches broad, and one inch and a half thick : the epididymis (h) issues from its anterior part, and is composed of large tubes of a yellowish colour, bound up together in