1356 VARIETIES OF MANKIND. Fid. 839. Fie. 840. Fie. 84-1- Cranium of Bushman. (From a specimen in the Museum of the Royal College of Surgeons.") compared with the parietal, and in the breadth and expansion of the malar bones. The ethnological position of the Hottentot race is not altogether clear. There is evidence that it once occupied a more extensive area than it does at present, and that this was much encroached on by the Kaffres, previously to the European colonisation of the Cape. This fact lends weight to a suggestion offered by Dr. Latham, in order to account for the abruptness of the transition between the two races : — " Let two divisions of a certain class pass into each other by imperceptible degrees, and let one of the central portions of either class spread itself at the expense of the parts belonging to its circumference ; the effect which follows is, that those portions of the area which represent the phenomena of transition are overlaid or overlapped ; and that, instead of two populations coming into contact by im- perceptible degrees, they meet as separate classes, with as broad a line of demarcation between their respective representatives, at the peripheries of their respective areas, as there was between their central or typical portions. North-western America illustrates this. The more southern Algonkins have overlaid both the Algonkins of their own section which ap- proached the Esquimaux, and the Esquimaux of the opposite section, which approached the Algonkin. Hence the two populations meet as widely-separated and broadly-distinguished varieties of mankind."* So, it may be sur- mised, the bold and warlike Kaffres have over- spread themselves through a region whose aboriginal population exhibited a transition between the Hottentot and Kaffre types. " The language of the Hottentots," says the same learned ethnologist, " can be shown not to be more different from those of the world in general, than they are from each other;" it has not yet, however, been sufficiently studied to enable its true affinities to be known, though some philologists affirm that it is a degraded Kaffre tongue.f * Varieties of Mankind, p. 498. f The author thinks it worth while still to repeat a suggestion which he made some years since; namely, that the Hottentot race is the remnant of an earlier migration from High Asia, than that which was the stock of the great bulk of African nations; and that it has been driven down into the remotest corner of the coutinent,just as the aboriginal Turanian population of south-western Europe seems Passing now to the valley of the Nile, we find a group of nations whose physical charac- ters and languages present a complete and almost uninterrupted gradation from those of the proper African tribes to those of the Semitic group. Under the general designation of Nilotic nations may be included the Gallas, the Nubians, the Bishari, and many subordi- nate groups. These come into close ap- proximation, both locally and physically, with the Eastern Negroes of the first division, and Fie. 842. Souakiny Cliief,—Eastern Nubia. (From a portrait given in " Salt's Travels.") with the northern Kaffres of the second. The colour of the Gallas varies from a deep black to have been driven back by the Indo-European immigration, and at last to have been limited to the Basque provinces. For anything yet known to the contrary, the structure of the Hottentot lan- guage may, like their physical conformation, be more closely related to that of the Turanian stock than to the Semitic, with which the languages of Northern Africa are obviously connected.