SOLIPEDA. 718 head is in a very material degree supported ; posteriorly, the spinous processes of the dor- sal region become gradually shorter, and their extremities broad and flattened, so as gradu- ally to approximate in their shape those of the lumbar region. The vertebra' of the loins are, in the Soli- peda, usually six in number: such is the case in the horse, zebra, and quagga; but in the ass there are but five lumbar vertebra;. This portion of the vertebral column is, in the class under consideration, possessed of great strength ; the bodies of the vertebrae are broad and firmly bound together ; the trans- verse processes of remarkable length and power; the articulating apophyses strong and broadly connected with each other, while the spinous processes, which are of great breadth, are either quite straight or inclined forward. The sacrum in all the Solipeda is composed of five vertebras consolidated into one piece, and, with that exception, scarcely different from the vertebral pieces that immediately precede and follow it. In the horse, as in most quadrupeds, the sacrum is much nar- rower in proportion than in the human sub- ject, and forming, moreover, a continuous straight line with the rest of the spinal column, allows of much more freedom of motion in this part of the skeleton than is possible in the human subject; and this is much increased by the obliquity of the junction between the sacrum and the iliac bones. The articulation, moreover, between the last lumbar vertebra and the sacrum, still further adds to the mobility of these parts ; for in the horse, the oblique processes of that vertebra are con- nected with the sacrum by means of articu- lating surfaces of very large size, so that from the combination of all these circumstances, there is a springiness given to this region of the vertebral column, the importance of which, in galloping or leaping, is at once conspicuous. The caudal vertebra; in the solipeds vary in number from seventeen to twenty-one ; but of these, the upper ones only resemble true vertebrae. Even in the first caudal vertebra, the inferior oblique processes become ob- literated, and as we descend, all the vertebral apophyses rapidly disappear : at the second bone of the tail, the spinal lamina? no longer rise high enough to enclose the spinal canal ; but resemble two short processes; and at about the fifth or sixth, all vestiges of them are lost, nothing remaining but the bodies of the vertebras of a cylindrical shape and slightly enlarged at each extremity, until we approach the last, where all regularity of form is lost. Thorax. — The sternum of the solipeds is considerably compressed towards its anterior extremity, which is moreover prolonged to some extent beyond the insertion of the first rib, so as to give to the whole chest a cate- nated appearance, which forcibly reminds the anatomist of the thorax of a bird. Posteriorly, the carinated form disappears, and the sternum becomes broad and flattened where it receives the cartilages of the posterior true ribs. The sternum of the horse is composed of several osseous pieces bound together by strong liga- mentous and cartilaginous connections. The ribs are eighteen in number, so that the thorax is prolonged very far backwards towards the pelvis. The anterior ribs are broad and massive; but of these, eight only are attached to the sternum: the posterior or false ribs gradually become more slender as they recede backwards to expand over the cavity of the abdomen. Anterior extremity.—The frame-work of the shoulder in the Solipeda, as in all ungulate quadrupeds, is composed of the scapula only ; the coracoid apparatus being dubiously repre- sented by a rudimentary apophysis, and the clavicle is totally wanting in circumstances which allow of the close approximation of the shoulder blades to the sides of the chest, and thus cause the weight of the body to be trans- mitted perpendicularly to the ground. The shape of the scapula (Jig. 498. o) is al- most that of an isosceles triangle, the spinal costa, which is about half the length of the other two, having its angles rounded off. The spine of the scapula is prominently deve- loped, and towards its upper third, projects posteriorly, so as to form a considerable re- curved process (i) ; as it approaches the neck of the bone, however, the scapular spine be- comes quite obliterated, spreading out upon the margin of the glenoid cavity (h), so that no acromion process exists in these quadru- peds. The humerus (Jig. 498. e, b,lc) is short, but of great strength, and the muscular imprints strongly marked. The forearm is almost exclusively formed by the radius (fig. 498. o,r), the strength of which is in accordance with the enormous weight it has to sustain, while the ulna is reduced to a mere appendage (fgAQS.s, t, u), which in the adult animal is completely consolidated with its posterior surface, the line of demarcation between the two being only indicated by a fur- row which, towards the upper extremity of the forearm, deepens into a slight fissure. The olecranon process is, however, of large size, and, by its projection posteriorly, affords a powerful purchase to the massive extensor muscles inserted into this portion of the limb. From the above arrangement of the bones of the forearm, it is manifest that all movements of pronation and supination are here out of the question; the limb must remain constantly fixed in a state of pronation, in which con- dition it is anchylosed, and thus acquires a firmness and steadiness which would be quite incompatible with more extensive movements. The carpus in the Solipeda consists of seven bones arranged in two rows, — of which four are situated in the first, and three in the second. The upper series consists of the representa- tive of the os scaphoid.es of the human subject (.fig- 498. tv) ; of the os lunare (x) ; of the cunciforme (y) ; and of the os pisiforme (z). In the lower series, the os trapezium, which supports the thumb of the human hand, does not exist in the horse; but the trapezoid (not