1339 VARIETIES OF MANKIND. and great varieties present themselves within the limits of any one tribe. Here, too, the influence of external conditions shows itself in a very marked degree ; for it is among the inhabitants of the lower levels bordering on the sea, between the tropics, who are most exposed to the vertical rays of the sun, their climatic conditions being nearly allied to those of the Negro, that the "woolly" character most remarkably shows itself; whilst in other tribes of the same race, which are not less prognathous, but live in higher and drier situa- tions, the hair is only " frizzled," or even becomes long and wavy. Even if, as Dr. Prichard justly remarks, the hair of the Negro were really analogous to wool, it would by no means prove the Negro to be a peculiar and separate stock, unless the peculiarity were constantly presented by all the nations of similar descent ; and were restricted to them alone ; for, as already pointed out, there are breeds of domesticated animals which bear wool, whilst others of the same species, under different climatic influences, are covered with long straight hair. It is not unimportant to notice, that wool is occasionally borne by the dog, ox, and hog, to neither of which it is natural ; whilst the sheep, whose ordinary covering is composed of it, occasionally ex- change it for long straight hair. These facts so unequivocally prove that the texture of the hair is peculiarly liable to be influenced by external conditions, that it could only be on the strictest proof of invariability, that such a character could be properly adopted as a basis for specific distinction. As examples in which there is historical evidence of alteration in the texture and mode of growth of the hair, it will be sufficient to refer to the case of the Barabras already cited, whose hair, originally woolly, has be- come longer and straighter, only retaining a slight crispness ; and to that of the Western Turks, whose chins are furnished.with flowing beards, in which their Eastern relatives are almost entirely deficient. The greatest peculiarity in the growth of the hair is exhibited by the Hottentot race. The following account of its appearance in a young Bushman, who recently died in the United States, is given by Dr. Parsons* : — " His hair lay in little distinct, compact, curly tufts, twisted spirally ; and in the intervals of these tufts, the skin was distinctly seen. The filaments were very fine, some of them five inches long, and black. They contained a distinct cortex and granular medulla. The transverse section of a filament resembled that of the Negro's, except in being concave on one of the two longer sides of the ellipse," or reni- form. Thus, in the texture of the hair itself, the Hottentot seems allied to the Negro, whilst its sparseness reminds us of the scanti- ness by which the Mongolian races are gene- rally characterised. We shall hereafter see, that there is strong reason for regarding the Hottentot race as of kin to the Negro ; and * Transactions of the American Medical Associa- tion, vol. iii. p. G2, for attributing the modification which it has undergone to the external conditions of its existence. The peculiar character of the chcvelurc of the Papuans, which will be no- ticed in the account of that race, seems to be chiefly due to its artificial treatment. From the Anatomical portion of our inquiry, then, we are led to the general conclusion, first, that no such difference exists in the ex- ternal conformation or internal structure of the different Races of Men, as would justify the assertion of their distinct origin ; and, secondly, that although the comparison of the structural characters of races does not furnish any positive evidence of their descent from a common stock, it proves that even if their stocks were originally distinct, there could have been no essential difference between them, the descendants of any one such stock being able to assume the characters of an- other. Of the next subject for investigation, the Physiological conformity or diversity of the several races of mankind, a much briefer sum- mary will be sufficient. This part of the in- quiry has been pursued with great diligence and success by Dr. Prichard *, who lays it down as a general axiom (the truth of which must be admitted by all who are competent to form an opinion on the subject, its validity being confirmed by the careful study of those races of domesticated animals which are re- markable for the greatest amount of anatomi- cal variation), that the great laws of the vital functions, such as those expressing the periods and duration of life, the economy of the sexes, and the phenomena of parturition and repro- duction, are, with slight deviations resulting from external agencies, constant and uniform in each particular species; whilst there are usually decided differences in regard to the same peculiarities among races of animals, which, though nearly resembling each other, are yet specifically distinct. Now, taking the average duration of life as the first point of comparison, it has been shown by Dr. Prichard, that, whilst there is a marked difference in this respect between man and the highest apes — the full term of exist- ence of the chimpanzee being stated by M. Lesson at not more than thirty years, and that of inferior species being less, — there is absolutely no difference among the several races of mankind, the extreme age of the Negro and American races being at least as great as that of the European, with the same average duration of life under the same cir- cumstances as regards climate, mode of life, &c. The age at which the body attains its full development, also, appears to be the same amongst different races ; or, at any rate, does not differ more than among the different indi- viduals of the same race. The inquiry into the epoch of the first menstruation has been most industriously prosecuted by Mr. Ro- * Physical History of Mankind, vol. i.