SPINAL NERVES. 709 outwards beneath the exterior brevis, supplies this muscle, and gives off from its anterior part several delicate filaments, which running close to the tarsus reach the three outer interosseous spaces, and expand in the sub- stance of the interosseous muscles. The museulo-cutaneous nerve (the external peronaeal), commencing its course below and behind the anterior tibial, and running more superficial and external than it, is directed, first obliquely then vertically downwards in the substance of the peronseus longus; it is then situated behind the fascia, and at a vari- able distance from the ankle, generally at the lower third, perforates the fascia, between the extensor communis, and peronseus tertius. Subcutaneous in the remainder of its extent, it follows the course of the extensor com- munis, and after running for a greater or less distance parallel to it, divides into an internal and external branch which diverge consider- ably from each other. This bifurcation is sub- ject to variation, taking place sometimes while the nerve is situated behind the fascia, at others over or very near the annular liga- ment, and occasionally the two divisions re- unite over the annular ligament, and form an irregular oval space between them. While passing deeply between the muscles of the leg this nerve sends two filaments to the peronseus longus, the inferior of which, given oft* about the upper fourth of the leg, can be traced running in the subtance of the muscle, to within two or three inches of the ankle. The upper part of the peronaeus brevis also receives a small branch. Shortly after perforating the fascia, the museulo-cutaneous sends off' its malleolar branches directed down- wards and outwards to the skin over the outer ankle, and anastomosing with cutaneous branches either from the external saphaenus, or the termination of the peronaeal cutaneous. The internal terminal branch, passing over the annular ligament giving a few branches to it, and some to communicate with the internal saphaenus and anterior tibial, is di- rected along the inner border of the foot to the inside of the great toe as far as its ex- tremity. The external branch, having passed over the annular ligament, divides into three branches which are directed along the three outer interosseous spaces, and near their an- terior extremities, each branch again sub- divides into two filaments supplying the op- posed sides of the four outer toes, the most external filament anastomosing with the ex- ternal saphaenus. Both terminal branches, in their course from the annular ligament to the toes, send off numerous filaments to the skin on the dorsum of the foot. Such is the usual distribution of the museulo-cutaneous nerve ; but frequently the outer branch does not sup- ply the inner side of the little toe, and occa- sionally gives filaments only to the opposed sides of the second and third toes. In these instances an extension of the external sa- phaenus nerves compensates for the deficiency. The tibial nerve (tibial-sciatic, internal po- plitaeal) much larger than the peronaeal or external poplitaeal, is in a direct line with the sciatic nerve. It passes through the centre of the poplitaeal space, rather nearer the semi- membranous than the biceps, then between the two heads of the gastrocnemius to the lower border of the poplitaeus. It perforates the tendinous arch of the solaeus, reaches the front of that muscle, and passes down the leg between it on the one hand and the deep- seated muscles on the other. At the lower third of the leg it runs from beneath the inner border of the solasus, and continues its ter- minal superficial course, anterior and internal to the tendo Achillis, as far as the lower extre- mity of the tibia, and, on a level with the base of the external malleolus, divides into the internal and external plantar. In the upper part of the poplitaeal span, the tibial nerve is superficial and external to the po- plitaeal vessels in the middle immediately be- hind, and at the lower part is placed internal to them. This last relation the nerve holds as far as the lower third of the leg, when it crosses the posterior tibial artery again to its outer side. It continues very gradually to separate from the vessel; sc that in the in- terval between the heel and malleolus the nerve is a quarter of an inch nearer the os calcis than the vessel. The branches given off from the tibial are muscular, articular, and cutaneous. The majority of the muscular branches arise from the posterior part of the trunk, and we observe, first, two branches for the two heads of the gastrocnemius entering their an- terior surface. The inner branch arises fre- quently from a trunk common to it and the tibial saphaenus ; the outer, from a trunk com- mon to it and a large branch for the solaeus, which enters, usually, the posterior surface of that muscle. When the outer branch is small, one or two others are given off' lower down, to enter its anterior aspect. The small branch for the plantaris is derived, in the majority of in- stances, from the trunk of the tibial ; but sometimes from the inferior internal articular nerve. The nerve for the poplitcEiis, given off op- posite the knee-joint, is directed forwards to the poplitaeal vessels, descends external to them, and terminates at the lower border of the muscle by entering its substance. The nerve to the tibialis posticus comes off from the above, descends along the back of the muscle, gives numerous filaments to it, anil terminates by entering below the middle. The nerve for the flexor communis digitorum and the longus pollicis take their origin together somewhat below the preceding ; that for the latter muscle being the larger, and descend- ing to within a short distance of the ankle joint, in company with the fibular artery. The articular branches are three in number, and correspond with the internal and anterior articular branches of the poplitaeal artery. " The superior internal articular, very small, arises above the articulation, descends on the outer side of the poplitaeal vessels, passes beneath them, and runs with its artery to the 3 D