SLEEP. 683 respect, then, even the ordinary sleep of the warm-blooded animal may be regarded as an incipient hybernation. Some writers have spoken of the organic functions as performed with increased activity during sleep ; a doc- trine so inconsistent with obvious facts, that it could never have been sustained except on the basis of a preconceived idea with regard to the antagonism between the relative ac- tivity of the functions of organic and animal life, which idea is in itself fallacious. The actual renovation of the nervous and mus- cular tissues by the nutritive processes, pro- bably takes place with peculiar energy during the functional inactivity of those parts ; but the preparation of the nutritive materials, which is the office of the digestive and as- similative apparatus, seems to go on more slowly during sleep ; and it is quite certain that less oxygen is then taken into the sys- tem, and less carbonic acid generated and set free. The access of sleep is sometimes quite sudden ; the individual passing at once from a state of mental activity to one of complete torpor. More generally, however, it is gradual; and is marked by phenomena which are par- ticularly worthy of attention. " While the mind remains poised, as it were, between sleep and the oppositecondition,"says Dr. Macnish*, " it is pervaded by a strange confusion, which almost amounts to wild delirium; the ideas dissolve their connection from it, one by one ; those which remain longest behind are faint, visionary, and indistinct; and its own essence becomes so vague and diluted, that it melts away in the nothingness of slumber; as the morning vapours are blended with the sur- rounding air by the solar heat." In this passage there is an attempt made to depict the result of the loss of that power of voluntary control over the current of thought, the possession of which is the especial characteristic of the human mind in its state of normal activity. It is the complete suspension of this power, as we shall presently see, which, taken in- connection with the entire want of sensibility to external objects, constitutes the state of dreaming; and the same suspension, occurring before the mind is altogether withdrawn from connection with the external world,constitutes that curious intermediate state betwixt sleeping and waking, which may readily pass into either condition. Thus, if the torpor of the sen- sorial centres be allowed to increase, sleep is produced ; but if it be dissipated by some sen- sory impression of unusual strength, wakeful- ness is brought back again, a dreamy impression remaining, both of what had been passing in the mind itself, and of that which had been taking place around. Now, it appears to be by suspending the mind's attention to its own proceedings, and by drawing off the attention of the sensorium from all other impressions upon the organs of sense, that the monoto- nous sensations already referred to favour the access of sleep. And it maybe further affirmed that all the successful plans for vo- * Philosophy of Sleep, p. 21. luntarily producing sleep have some such modus operandi; their success being dependent upon the intentional fixation of the thoughts upon some one class of sensory impressions (as in the method of Mr. Gardner), or upon some very simple and uniform mental process (such as counting, repeating a French or Greek verb, &c); and when the attention has been once thus fixed, the monotony of the impression serves to retain it there, so that it abandons, as it were, all control over its operations, and allows itself to be gradually wrapped in repose under the influence of that continued recurrence of similar impressions, which seems even more potent as a soporific than the suspension of all sensational stimuli. The gradual loss of consciousness l^Ttd? <)X voluntary control over the muscular system during the invasion of sleep is thus described by Dr. Macnish : — " Previous to the acces- sion of sleep, a feeling of universal lassitude prevails ; this sensation heralds in the phe- nomena of slumber, and exhibits itself in yawning, heaviness of the eyes, indifference to surrounding objects, and all the characteristics of fatigue. If the person be seated, his head nods and droops, and, in all cases, the muscles become relaxed, and the limbs thrown into that state most favourable for complete mus- cular inaction. The lying position is, con- sequently, the best adapted for sleep, and the one which is intuitively adopted for the pur- pose. The organs of the senses do not re- lapse into simultaneous repose, but suspend their respective functions gradually and suc- cessively ; sight, taste, smell, hearing, and touch, parting with sensation in the order in which they here stand, and gliding insensibly away. In the same manner the muscles do not become simultaneously relaxed; those of the limbs giving way first, then those of the neck, and lastly the muscles of the spine. Nor do the external senses, on awaking, re- cover all at once their usual vigour; we, for some seconds, neither hear, nor see, nor smell, nor taste, nor touch, with our usual acuteness. Ordinary sights dazzle our eyes; ordinary sounds confuse our ears; ordinary odours, tastes, and sensations, our nose, our tongue, and our touch : they awake successively, one after another, and not in the same instant." * The power of being aroused by impressions made upon the organs of sense, is, as already remarked, one of the chief distinctions be- tween sleep and stupor. The strength of the impression requisite to produce this effect depends upon two circumstances, which re- quire separate consideration : first, the pro- foundness of the slumber; and, second, the relation of the impression to the habitual condition of the mind. It is a familiar fact that most persons are much more easily- aroused towards the morning, when the slum- bers are lighter, than they are during the early part of the night, when the sleep is more profound. In fact, the spontaneous awaken- ing which takes place when our repose has been sufficient for the restoration of mental Op. cit. p. 22.; „