STATISTICS. 807 3 f I ations of the relative weight of the lungs and body ; of which three observations, one was made upon the body of an immature infant, so that the subjects of the observations were not strictly comparable. Though Ploucquet, in this procedure, offended against two of the most obvious statistical rules, his test con- tinued to be treated with undeserved respect, till comparatively recent investigations on a larger scale had demonstrated the little re- liance to be placed upon it. The most common attention to the ordinary daily occurrences of life would suffice to caution us against such errors as that into which Ploucquet fell. Coincidences of the most startling character are constantly happening to put us on our guard against them. One which occurred to the writer of this article deserves to be put on record. Two cases of congenital absence of the larger pectoral muscle on the same side of the body, oc- curred, on the same day, among the out- patients of the King's College Hospital. This defect he has never happened to observe within the wards of that Hospital or else- where, either before or since. A similar coincidence, though of a less striking cha- racter, presented itself in the same institution while the writer was noticing with some care and interest the complexion and physiognomy of patients suffering from pulmonary consump- tion. His own previous experience, in con- formity with the general opinion, had pointed out the fair complexion as that of the great majority of phthisical patients ; but the almost exclusive occurrence for several days together of the olive complexion, among patients labouring under that disease, had almost led him to discard his former opinion and that of the best authorities, and to embrace one which, as farther observation convinced him, would have been erroneous. Games of chance are constantly furnishing striking examples of these coincidences, in the shape of what is familiarly known as a run of good or ill-luck ; the same event, favourable or unfavourable, occurring many times in suc- cession, contrary not only to reasonable ex- pectation, but to the results of unerring cal- culation. On the other hand, the success of the bank, with only a slight calculated chance in its favour, but with a capital sufficiently large to await the inevitable change in the run of luck, vindicates the sufficiency of large numbers of facts. The great annual fluctu- ations, too, which take place in the balance of the receipts and expenditure of assurance offices, but the ultimate safety of their trans- actions, when extending over a long term of years and embracing a large number of in- surances, serve to enforce the same truth. The sufficiency for all practical purposes of large numbers of facts, may also be inferred from the remarkable uniformity observed to take place in the annual summaries of events brought about by the continued operation of the same combination of causes. The annual reports of the Registrar-General supply many illustrations of this principle. The illustration best suited to our present purpose, is one drawn from an event removed, by the very nature of the case, beyond the reach of ex- ternal influences, or only very remotely and indirectly amenable to them ; namely, the proportion of male and female births in suc- cessive years. In the eighth annual report of the Registrar-General (p. lxi.), a table is given, in which the number of males and females born, to every hundred living males and females respectively, is recorded for the seven years 1839-45. If we substitute 100,000 for 100, the table will read thus. Year. Males. Females. Excels of Males. 1839 6,498 6,211 287 1840 (5,539 6,250 289 1841 6,580 6,289 291 1842 6,564 6,273 291 1843 6,597 6,305 292 1844 6,676 6,381 295 1845 6,622 6,329 293 The largest excess of male over female births, therefore, in these seven years is 295, and the least 287, the average being 291 ; so that the extreme fluctuation amounts to only 8 births in about G500, or considerably less than 1 in 800 ; while the excess or defect above or below the average of 291 is only 4 births, or less than 1 in 1600. If the causes which determine the births of males and females re- spectively could be assumed to be constant and uniform, these fractional fluctuations would express the divergences due to the insufficiency of the number of observations to express an absolutely true result. The close approximation actually obtained must be held to prove the sufficiency for every prac- tical purpose of results based upon large numbers of observations. Having thus shown, by two opposite ex- amples, the total insufficiency of small num- bers of facts, and the sufficiency, at least for practical purposes, of large numbers of ob- servations, it will be necessary to enter into a more detailed examination of the relative value of numbers of observations intermediate between these two extremes. From what has been already stated, it must be obvious that the degree of confidence to be reposed in results based upon different collections of facts must vary with the num- ber of those facts ; and that, other things being equal, the value of the results must increase with every addition made to that number. But it is only by actual observation, or by mathematical calculations based upon indisputable data, that the precise value of any particular number of facts can be deter- mined. Observation, indeed, is altogether unequal to give more than a vague and general idea of the relative values of small and large collections of facts ; so that we must ulti- mately resort to the mathematics both for authoritative decisions and safe guides. As, however, the large majority of mankind is destitute of that mathematical knowledge and