THYROID GLAND. 1112 the limitary tissue is discoverable nowhere, not even surrounding those curious spherical masses of nuclei the white corpuscles of Mal- pighi. The only circumstance I know of, which seems to indicate that even in the spleen a kind of secretor}7 action does occasionally take place, is, that there frequently occur, in the parenchyma, some peculiar yellow cor- puscles, which are most abundant in fishes, and of which I gave a detailed account some years ago. The very presence, however, of these (for they are by no means constant), as well as their condition, argue strongly that secretion is not the appointed function of the splenic parenchyma. From this, the last and lowest of the ductless glands, we descend to erectile tissue, in which the venous portion of the sanguiferous system is even more highly de- veloped than in the spleen, and where the intervening parenchyma is still further reduced in quantity; yet, from the phenomenon of afflux of blood to the part, it must be regarded, I think, as exerting an attractive force, as is unquestionably the case in the spleen.* Returning from this digression to the con- sideration of the thyroid, we may lay it down as fully established, that it is a gland whose secretion is formed, and collects, in closed cavities. Now from this fact we are able easily to deduce another, viz., that the secre- tion when formed is capable of being absorbed from the receptacular cavities ; for otherwise these would go on enlarging and distending themselves indefinitely, as in fact they do under certain morbid conditions. But, though there may be various causes concerned in the production of bronchocele, yet I think it must be regarded as proved, by Mr. M'Clellan's inquiries, that certain waters are adequate of themselves to produce this disease ;—it would appear that when they are drunk, some in- gredient or principle is supplied to the blood, which, being in excess, is straightway elimi- mated by the epithelium of the glandular cavities of the thyroid, and thus collects in, and distends them. If a patient in whom this has occurred be removed from using this unwholesome water, and if the natural ab- sorbing power be aided by the influence of iodine, then, the supply of the substance for which the thyroid has a special attraction being cut off, the excess collected in the receptacular cavities returns speedily to the circulating current, which now, being in a minus condition as to this principle, readily resumes it. In such cases there seems, in fact, to take place a very analogous process to that which occurs in ordinary fattening and emaciation ; if an excess of oily matter exist in the blood, old fat vesicles enlarge, and new ones are formed ; if the reverse is the * The well marked variation in size of the spleen at different times proves, I think beyond doubt, that it exerts an actively attracting force on the blood which traverses it; else what possible reason can be given for its containing much more blood at one time than at another ? No contractile tissue exists here which can be supposed to obstruct the returning current by the splenic vein. case, the oil in the fat cells is readily absorbed into the blood circulating in the capillary loops around them. The condition in which the epithelium of the thyroideal cavities is usually found is worth observing, and seems susceptible of a probable interpretation. It may be stated as a pretty well established fact, that the nucleus of a cell is the essential part, that in it resides that influence, or is developed that force, which produces all the phenomena of growth and assimilation ; that, so long as the nucleus persists, the energy of the cell, if one has been formed, continues to be manifested; but, if it has disappeared, the active life of the cell is at an end. It is also certain that the comple- tion of a cell, i.e. its being surrounded by an envelope, is by no means an essential circum- stance ; that all the purposes of cell life may be effected by the mere aggregation of granular matter around a nucleus ; that, in fact, the cell wall or envelope is of no importance, or but very little, in the metabolic changes which are produced, and that its presence, when it exists, seems merely to denote a certain per- manence of duration in the particle. Many examples of the correctness of these state- ments, will occur to every one who is in the habit of examining the glandular organs in man or the lower animals. I believe we may also advance a step beyond these doc- trines, and regard it as very probable that, when we find an epithelial structure con- sisting principally of bare nuclei, with but a scanty interposed quantity of granular matter, the secreting action there effected is of a rapid and simple kind; the destined pro- duct being quickly formed and thrown off, and not slowly evolved within the chamber of a cell. The following instances may be re- ferred to, as illustrating the extreme varieties of secretory action in reference to this par- ticular. The cells in which the spermatozoa are formed must be of considerable per- manence, the development of the filaments taking place gradually, and in one instance, as Mr. Goodsir has shown, only being completed in the spermatheca of the female. The biliary cells of various annelida are at first filled with pale granular contents; but gradually these are replaced by the characteristic molecules with which the cell becomes at last distended, and thus remains, often for a long time. The cells of the kidney of the common snail, which are very perfectly formed, enclose, within a well marked envelope, an opaque white mass of uric acid, which, after a long time, may increase to such a degree as com- pletely to fill the cell. These cells are very permanent.* In contrast to these instances, wherein complex and elaborate products are formed in complete cells by a secretory action of a slow and deliberate character, we may refer to (1) * I preserved some snails in a box for about a year—they remained in a perfectly torpid state, and took no food. The renal cells at the end of that time were almost all fully distended with uric acid, while usually they are not more than half full.