SUPRA-RENAL CAPSULES. 833 a network of capillaries, while it includes within its interior, glandular contents in very diverse forms. These contents consist, in general, of elementary granules, of an albu- minous material, of fatty granules and small drops of fat, and of nuclei and cells in the most variable quantities. Cells, which are the highest development of glandular contents, are not always found : more frequently only nuclei are noticed. It will be recollected that in speaking of the contents of the supra-renal capsules, we have stated that the development of cells occurs by the method of circumposition of a globular membrane, and the same method obtains in a number of the glands. The first two of the three forms of glands frequently occur isolated, and thus exhibit microscopic glandules of the greatest sim- plicity ; as for instance the stomach glands of Mammalia, the glands of Lieberkuhn, the cu- taneous glands of the Frog. In other instances, glandular tubes or sacs are connected to each other in very variable number, and thus form the larger glands. In this way the kidneys and testicles originate from tubes ; while from sacculi are formed the multitude of clustered glands, as those of Brunner, the salivary glands, and the pancreas. The first two forms of glandular structure have no further interest as regards our present object; but the case is very different with re- spect to the third or vesicular form. The gland-vesicles have a very diverse size, ranging from microscopic dimensions to a quarter, a half, or even a whole line or more. Their shape is always spherical, so that their membrana propria encloses a globular cavity, which contains, suspended in a fluid, all the different constituents of gland-contents pre- viously spoken of. In very numerous experi- ments I have never found vesicles of this kind further divided by ensheathing membranes. Generally the united gland-vesicles are in- laid in the fibrous tissue of the particular mucous membrane of the body; they are sometimes in greater, sometimes in smaller quantity, so that great differences, both in- dividual and generic, may be noticed in this respect. In many places they occur with greater frequency, so as to constitute the rule, and have therefore received a special name. For instance, the glandulse solitariae of the intestine, and the lenticular glands of the mucous membrane of the stomach, belong to this category ; while in other cases more than one or even many vesicles of this kind are grouped together to form a glandular body of some extent. Amongst such aggregations may here be enumerated the Peyerian vesicles, which form a single layer of this kind in the mucous membrane of the intestine. We find the same grouping in the ovary, where these vesicles are called " Graafian," in honour of their discoverer. But here they are some- what more widely separated from each other by the thickness of a solid fibrous basis, or by the so-called stroma; and they enclose, beside the usual glandular contents, a peculiar body, the primitive egg or ovum. The physiological relations of the gland- vesicles, and especially their duration and origin, are as yet little known. The facts may probabiy be stated as follows. The gland-vesicles arise from cells which enlarge, so that the cell-membrane becomes the wall of the vesicle, and its contents form those of the vesicle also. At least I have ob- served exactly this occurrence to take place in formation of vesicles in a fish of very low development which inhabits our brook (Ammoccetes branchialis). In this fish a num- ber of glands of this kind may be found at the dilated part of the intestinal canal, on both sides of it near the spiral fold : these remain tolerably small, although they experience con- siderable variations of diameter. They are densely filled with large, pale, smooth nuclei, of oval or roundish form, the number of which is greater or smaller according to the size of the vesicle. Beside these are seen in the tissue of the wall of the intestine separate cells, which enclose two nuclei in no way distin- guishable from those of the gland-vesicles. From these cells they pass, by all intermediate gradations, to the large vesicles. If one may generalise on this observation, it may be stated therefrom, in accordance with the proposition mentioned above, that the shut gland-vesicles proceed from cells. The gland-vesicles in the mucous membranes of the Mammalia are very unfavourable objects for examination ; so that, unfortunately, in spite of many attempts, I have not been so lucky as to observe their de- velopment. So also I am unable to state in what way the multiplication of nuclei takes place, whether by a fission of the nuclei already present, or whether new nuclei arise inde- pendently of the old ones in the fluid of the gland. But I conjecture that the latter is the case. By their further increase of size, the gland- vesicles come to lie more on the surface of the substance in which they are imbedded. But the membrana propria does not possess an unlimited extensibility, so that a period arrives when it can no longer withstand the contents, and is burst by them. This rending occurs at the place of least resistance, namely, at the upper and most external part, and en- gages not only the membrana propria of the gland-vesicle, but also the thin layer of fibrous tissue present superficially to this. By the occurrence of this so-called dehiscence of the gland-vesicles, its fluid contents become effused amongst the other constituents. This process has long been known to occur in the Graafian follicle of the ovary; but it may also be seen with the greatest distinctness in the vesicles of the mucous membranes, as well in the separate as in the Peyerian glands. The burst gland-vesicle is thus brought into connection with the outer world, and now resembles a wide-bellied and short-necked flask : it has thus suddenly become converted into a small sac, such as we have already found as a constituent of the glands treated of as belonging to the second variety. After their dehiscence, the gland-vesicles