939 TEETH. I had the tusk and pulp of the great ele- phant at the Zoological Gardens longitudinally divided, soon after the death of that animal in the summer of 1847. Although the pulp could be easily detached from the inner surface of the pulp-cavity, it was not without a certain resistance, and when the edges of the co- adapted pulp and tooth were examined by a strong lens, the filamentary processes from the outer surface of the pulp could be seen stretching, as they were withdrawn from the dentinal tubes, before they broke. They are so minute that, to the naked eye, the detached surface of the pu'p seems to be entire, and Cuvier was thus deceived in concluding that there was no organic connection between the pulp and the ivory.* As the learned professor who has contributed the article " Pachvder- m at a " adopts Cuvier's description of the formation of the teeth of the elephant by deposition and transudation of the tissues from free surfaces of the formative organs, I have the more valued the rare opportunity of testing and confirming, by examination of the recent animal, the account of the processes of conversion of those organs into the dental tissues, which I gave in my " Odontography." Each molar of the elephant is formed in the interior of a membranous sac—the capsule, the form of which partakes of that of the future tooth, being cubical in the first molar, oblong in the last, and rhomboidal in most of the intermediate teeth ; but always decreasing in vertical extent towards its posterior end, and closed at all points, save where it is penetrated by vessels and nerves. It is lodged in an osseous cavity of the same form as itself, and usually in part suspended freely in the maxillary bone ; the bony case being destined to form part of the socket of the tooth. The exterior of the membranous capsule is simple and vascular, as shown at in. 5. fig. 592. ; its internal surface gives attachment to numerous folds or processes, as in most other Ungulate animals. The dentinal pulp rises from the bottom of the capsule, or that part which lines the deepest part of the alveolus, in the form of transverse parallel plates extending towards that part of the capsule ready to escape from the socket. These plates adhere only to the bottom of the capsule ; their opposite extremity is free from all adhesion. This summit is thinner than the base ; it might be termed the edge of the plate: but it is notched, or divided into many digital processes. The tissue of these digitated plates is identical with that of the dentinal pulp of simple Mammalian teeth ; it becomes also highly vascular at the parts where the formation of the dentine is in active progress. Processes of the capsule descend from its summit into the interspaces of the dentinal pulp-plates, and consequently resemble them in form ; but they adhere not only by their * Annales du Museum, torn. viii. (180G), p. 94. The account is repeated verbatim in the posthumous edition of the "Ossemens Fossilcs," 1830. VOL. IV. base to the surface of the capsule next the mouth, but also by their lateral margins to the sides of the capsule, and thus resemble partition-walls, confining each plate of the dentinal pulp to its proper chamber ; the margin of the partition opposite its attached base is free in the interspace of the origins of the dentinal pulp plates. The enamel organ, which Cuvier appears to have recognised under the name of the internal layer of the capsule, is distinguishable by its light blue sub-transparent colour and usual microscopic texture, adhering to the free surface of the partitions formed by the true inner layer of the capsule. Although the enamel-pulp be in close contact with the dentinal pulp prior to the commencement of the formation of the tooth, one may readily conceive a vacuity between them, which is continued uninter- ruptedly, in many foldings, between all the gelatinous plates of the dentinal pulp, and the partitions formed by the combined enamel- pulp and the folds of the capsule. According to the excretion-view, this delicate apparatus must have been immediately subjected to the violence of being compressed in the unyielding bony box, by the deposition of the dense matters of the tooth in the hypothetical vacuity between the enamel and dentinal pulps j a process of absorption must have been con- ceived to be set on foot immediately that the altered condition of the gelatinous secreting organs took place ; and, according to Cuvier's hypothesis, the secreting function must be supposed to have proceeded, without any ir- regularity or interruption, while the process of absorption was superinduced in the same part to relieve it from the effects of pressure produced by its own secretion. The formation of the dentine commences immediately beneath the membrana propria of the pulp: a part which Cuvier distinctly recognised, and which he accurately traced as preserving its relative situation between the dentine and enamel throughout the whole formation of the dentine, and discernible in the completed tooth " as a very fine greyish line, which separates the enamel from the in- ternal substance " or dentine. The calcification and conversion of the cells of the dentinal pulp commence as usual at the peripheral parts of the latnellif'orra pro- cesses furthest from the attached base. It may readily be conceived, therefore, that, at the commencement, there is formed a little cap upon each of the processes into which the edges of the pulp-plates are divided. As the centripetal calcification proceeds the caps are converted into horn-shaped cones; when it has reached the bottom of the notches of the edge of the pulp-plate all the cones be- come united together into a single transverse plate ; and, the process of conversion having reached the base of the pulp-plate, these plates coalesce to form a common base to the crow n of the tooth, which would then present the same eminences and notches that charac- terised the gelatinous pulp, if, during the period of conversion, other substances had 3 o