1299 VARIETIES OF MANKIND. 4 o 2 of a change of habits, provided such change could be induced. Thus we find that in dogs, the general form of the cranium, and the sagittal crest, undergo considerable modifica- tion ; the brain acquiring a very large size, in several of the domesticated races, at an early period of life; and the parietal bones being expanded over it so as to form a smooth dome, instead of rising up to meet in a ver- tical ridge. But the prominence of the supra- orbital ridge does not seem to be in any way connected with the relative development of the cerebrum and of the muscular system ; and as Prof. Owen remarks, " We have no grounds from observation or experiment to believe the absence or the presence of a pro- minent supra-orbital ridge to be a modifiable character, or one to be gained or lost through the operation of external causes, inducing particular habits through successive genera- tions of a species. It may be concluded, therefore, that such feeble indication of the supra-orbital ridge, aided by the expansion of the frontal sinuses, as exists in man, is as much a specific peculiarity of the human skull, in the present comparison, as the ex- aggeration or suppression of this ridge is respectively characteristic of the chimpanzees and orangs." The same may be said of nearly all the other distinctive characters which have been so minutely enumerated ; for they serve to distinguish the great chimpanzee from all the varieties of the human race, — from the most degraded African, as well as from the most elevated European. The shape, size, and construction of the " pre- maxillary " bones (" inter-maxillaries " of the ordinary nomenclature) are peculiarly distinc- tive ; for they not only differ from those of Man in their vastly greater proportional size, their greater prominence, and the longer per- sistence of their sutures, but also in their upward extension around the nostrils, so that they completely exclude the maxillary bones from their borders, and form the bases of support for the nasal bones (Jig. 800.) It is to be remembered that the apparent defi- ciency of the inter-maxillary bone in the human subject is the result of its early coalescence with the maxillary ; and that this coalescence maybe prevented by an arrest of development, so that the two bones remain permanently distinct.* Having dwelt thus fully on the distinctive features of the Osteology of Man, it will be sufficient to pass over his other peculiarities of conformation more cursorily, referring to the article Quadrumana for more minute details. In his Myology, the most charac- teristic difference is the much greater de- velopment of those muscles of the trunk and limbs, which contribute to the maintenance of the erect posture. Thus the gastrocnemii and the other muscles which tend to keep the leg erect upon the foot, form a much * A very definite account of the early embryonic state of the intermaxillary bone, is given by Dr. Leidy in the Proceedings of the Academy of the Natural Sciences of Philadelphia for 1*48. more prominent "calf" than is seen in any other animal. So, again, the extensors of the leg upon the thigh are much more powerful than the flexors ; a character which is pecu- liar to man. The glutaei, by which the pelvis is kept erect upon the thigh, are of far greater size than is elsewhere seen. The superior power of the muscles tending to draw the head and spine backwards, has been already referred to. Among the differences in the attachment of individual muscles, we may no- tice that the flexor longus pollicis pedis pro- ceeds in man to the great toe alone, on which the weight of the body is often supported ; whilst it is attached in the chimpanzee and orang to the three middle toes. The latissi- mus dorsi of man is destitute of that pro- longation attached to the olecranon, which is found in most of the lower Mammalia, and which exists even in the chimpanzee, pro- bably giving assistance in its climbing movements. The larger size of the muscles of the thumb is, as might be expected, a characteristic of the hand of man, though the number of muscles by which that digit is moved is the same in the chimpanzee as in the human subject. The existence of the extensor digiti indicis, as a distinct muscle, however, is peculiar to man. The visceral apparatus of Man presents very few characteristic peculiarities, by which it can be distinguished from that of the higher Quadrumana ; among the most re- markable is the absence of the laryngeal pouches, which exist even in the chimpanzee and orang-outan, as dilatations of the laryngeal ventricles. Of the anatomy of the last-named animals in their adult condition, however, we know as yet too little, to enable its resem- blance to that of man to be confidently pro- nounced upon. The conformation of the brain of Man does not differ so much from that of the chimpanzee and orang, as the superiority of his mental endowments might have led us to anticipate. The following are the principal differences which it seems to present:— 1. The mass of the entire brain is considerably larger in proportion to that of the body, and in proportion also to the diameter of the nerves which are connected with it. 2. In the external configuration of the cerebrum, we notice that the posterior lobes are more developed, so as to project further beyond the cerebellum than they do in any of the quadrumana ; the convolutions are more nu- merous, and the sulci are deeper. 3. On ex- amining the internal structure, it is found that the peripheral layer of grey matter is thicker, the corpus callosum extends further backwards, and the posterior cornua of the lateral ventricles are relatively longer and larger than they are in any Quadrumana. 4. The cerebellum, also, is proportionally larger. — The great size of the cranial portion of the skull in Man, as compared with the facial, produces a marked difference between his facial angle, and that of even the highest Quadrumana. According to Camper, who first