955 TERATOLOGY. length of the under jaw. These distortions give to such monstrosities a certain brute-like aspect which induced the Germans to call them Katzenkopfe and the French teles de crapaud. If the cervical part of the spinal column is in the meantime cleft, the cervix is so shortened, that the head seems to be fixed on the shoul- ders, and the chin rests on the breast, as is represented in fig. 606. The malformation of the bones of the skull and of the face is very great; but as its de- scription would take too much room here, I refer the reader to my handbook and my plates, and also to fig. 607., which will give a clear idea of it. Fig. 607. Skull of a new born Child with Acrania. a, a, frontals; b, nasals; c, c, very convex zygoma- tic bones ; d, small ensiform processes ; e, sella turcica; f,f, alse majores ossis sphenoidei; g, g, petrous bones; h, basal part of the sphenoid bone; i, i, condyloid parts of the occipital bone; /, 7, depressed squamous parts of the occipital bone; m, small osseous lamina?, representing the parietal bones. Second Type.— The denuded surface of the basis cranii occupied by a spongij substance, instead of brain. — In most cases vesicles, filled with a serous liquor, were observed to occur in this spongy substance, and with these occasionally also medullary corpuscles, which may be considered as rudiments of brain. There is sometimes a rudiment of the cerebellum, together with a rudiment which is continued into the spinal medulla, as though it were a medulla oblongata. The cerebral nerves are sometimes quite separated from, sometimes united with, the spongy substance. Sometimes they have the form of complete or lacerated bags, which extend along the superior surface of the skull and the posterior surface of the spinal column. The spinal co- lumn is either perfect, or partially, and some- times entirely, cleft. The last of these con- ditions is represented in Jig. 608.q]**^ To this form of monstrosity Geoffroy St. Ililaire gives the name of anencephalus. Spe- cimens of it were found amongst the Egyptian mummies in the sacred sepulchres of the Cy- nocephali and Ibis, which is a very interesting fact as regards monstrous births in those times. Third Type. — The surface of the basis cranii only partially denuded, — a spongy tumour occupying the place of the brain. The skull may be closed at its posterior part, and remain open at its summit. A more or less malformed cerebral substance appears on the summit of the skull, just as if it were Fig. 609. Section of the Head of a Child with Acrania, to shoio the union of the malformed brain with the spinal cord. a, b, cellular sacs, taking the place of the brain; c, occipital bone ; d, spinal cord.