1178 TOUCH. gained, the individual becomes able, by a fur- ther period of diligent application, to recog- nise the combination of letters in syllables and words, without forming a separate idea of each letter, just as we see to take place in the child learning to read by eyesight ; and the pupil in time acquires the power of read- ing line after line, by passing the point of the finger consecutively over each, with consider- able rapidity. Now when this power has once been thoroughly acquired, it is found that the size of the type may be gradually diminished, so that at last it may be reduced to one but little larger than that of an ordi- nary folio Bible, which is read at least as rapidly as the words can be spoken.* As an instance of the readiness and nicety of dis- crimination which is frequently acquired by those who are chiefly dependent upon this sense for their knowledge of the outward world, we may advert to the well-known case of Laura Bridgman ; who, though destitute of sight, hearing, and smell, is able to recognise individuals with whom she has once been well acquainted, by feeling their hands, even after a long distance of time. It is related of Carolan,the celebrated blind Irish bard, that on accidentally grasping, at an interval of some years, the hand of a female to whom he had been formerly attached, he at once exclaimed, with strong emotion, " This is the hand of Bridget Cruise." A lady, who became blind, and soon afterwards deaf and dumb, in conse- quence of an attack of confluent small-pox, and whose case is recorded in the Annual .Register for 1758, seems to have very speedily acquired a remarkable exaltation of the sensibility she retained. Like James Mitchell (see Smell, p. 702.), she could distinguish strangers from acquaintance by the smell; but she required the further help of the touch to distinguish one friend from another. " When they came in, they used to present their hands to her as a means for making themselves known. The form and the warmth of the hand generally furnished the differences which she distin- guished ; but sometimes she would span the wrist and measure the fingers. A lady with whom she was well acquainted,coming in upon a very hot day after having walked a mile, presented her hand as usual; she examined it longer than ordinary, and seemed to doubt to whom it belonged; but at length she said, — ' I think it is Mrs. M.; but she is warmer to-day than I ever felt her before.'" f * It is worthy of remark, that, when the idea of teaching the blind to read from raised characters was first being carried into practice, it was thought requisite by many to adopt a new alphabet of sim- pler forms, instead of the ordinary letters, in order that they might be more readily discriminated. This plan, however, was subject to the disadvantage that the teacher as well as the pupil was compelled to learn this new alphabet; and as it was soon found that the ordinary Roman capitals, reduced to their simplest forms, could be discriminated by the blind with very little more trouble than the best set of new signs that could be devised, the idea of a spe- cial alphabet for their use has been given up. ■j- " Lost Senses," vol. ii. p. 81. Of this lady it is positively affirmed that she was able to distinguish colours by the touch. " A lady, who was nearly related to the sufferer, having an apron on, which ac- cording to the fashion of the time, was em- broidered with silk of different colours, asked her if she could tell her what colour it was; and after applying her fingers attentively to the figures of the embroidery, she replied that it was red, blue, and green ; but whether there were other colours in the apron, the writer of the account does not remember. The same lady having a pink ribbon on her head, and being desirous still further to satisfy her curiosity and her doubts, asked her what colour that was ? After feeling it for some time, her cousin answered that it was a pink colour. This answer was the more surprising, as it showed that she was not only capable of distinguishing different colours, but different shades of the same colour."* It is probable that in this and similar cases, the difference of hue is indicated by some diffe- rence of surface, which becomes appreciable to a refined touch. Of course, it can only be to a person who has once enjoyed sight, and who can therefore form ideas of colour, that such ideas could be suggested by the sense of touch ; and a new set of associations must be formed by habit between the tactile qualities of the surface, and the visual conception called up by its designation. Those who have been born blind must be utterly incapable of forming any such conceptions, and distinc- tions of colour can be to them nothing more than names ; yet even such have been able to discriminate by the touch between stuffs of different hues, which were similar in other respects. That such a power should be attained seems the less difficult of belief, when it is .borne in mind that all colour depends upon the molecular arrangement of the par- ticles of the surfaces of bodies ; so that there is no great improbability—much less an im- possibility — in the asserted discrimination of these by a touch rendered delicate by con- stant practice, and by the habit of attending to its minutest indications. It is well known that Dr. Saunderson, the celebrated blind pro- fessor of mathematics at Cambridge, not only acquired a very accurate knowledge of medals", but could even distinguish genuine medals from imitations, more certainly than most connoisseurs in full possession of their senses ; and this power must have depended on pecu- liarities of their surface, too minute to be ap- preciated by an ordinary touch, and not dis- tinguished by the sight. Not only does the sense of touch, in its simplest form, undergo this remarkable exalta- tion, but also the muscular sense, which is em- ployed in combination with it in the acquire- ment of information respecting the forms, di- mensions, distances, &c. of objects. Of this, the case of the lady just cited affords an apt illustration : " To amuse herself in the mourn- ful solitude and darkness to which she had * Op. cit. p. 79.