1082 THORAX. exist in the breathing movements; the only difference being that these movements are more limited. (f) Of the deep expiratory position. — In figs. 711. and 712. the margin of the shade is the position of the thoracic boundaries in deep expiration. We have supposed the figures above men- tioned as standing with the back fixed, for the purpose of making clearly manifest the relative position of these several breathing movements. In fig. 716. the body is quite free, and wholly alters its position in performing expiration and inspiration. This should al- ways be considered in noticing the breathing movements in diagnosis. Fig. 716. Respiratory Movements. Male, standing. Expiration, dotted line. Inspiration, continuous line. {d) Of the change of position by extreme breathing. — In expiration the head is pro- truded and lowered (see figs. 713. and 714.). Therefore, by inspiration the body is raised, and the more erect the more can be inspired ; by expiration it is lowered, so much so that we have seen men when displacing their vital capacity volume stoop themselves to one-half their natural height, to one-sixth frequently: we speak from a large number of cases,— nearly 4000. Physiologists have reasoned that, as upon the principle of a bladder becom- ing longer when empty than when inflated, so the chest is shorter when inflated than when empty. But this example in no way corresponds. The bladder expands, because it is inflated; the chest is inflated because it expands. We have given the position of the breath- ing parts (the body fixed) : we shall describe the movement of these parts relatively in time and order to each other, and the peculiar character of these movements in health, and some of their modifications by disease. Ordinary breathing.—In men this is sym- metrical, and very limited, and commences with an advancing and receding of the abdo- men at and above the umbilical region, accom- panied with a slight lateral enlargement, and immediately followed by a bulging outwards at the cartilages of the 7th, 8th, 9th, and 10th» ribs, and that part of the abdomen contiguous to them, with a slight advance of the lower third of the sternum. This is abdominal breathing, because the abdomen moves first; and is confined to motion of the base of the thorax. In women it is likewise symmetrical, commencing with a gentle heaving of the upper part of the thorax, more or less apparent ac- cording to the fulness of the mammae. This expansion commences with the 1st and next three ribs following each other in succession, accompanied with a slight elevation of the shoulders and a slight lateral enlargement of the chest, which is immediately followed by a bulging outwards of the abdomen. So quick is this motion of the diaphragm after the mo- tion of the ribs, that at times they appear to be synchronous, especially when the individual examined is conscious of the observation, though it is only an accommodating movement of the diaphragm. This is costal breathing, because the ribs move first, and the motion is chiefly confined to the apex of the thorax. Therefore that which is a healthy respiratory movement in women is pathological in men. Of the extraordinary breathing in both sexes (Inspiration). — This, like ordinary breathing, is symmetrical: the clavicles, shoulders, sca- pula, and superior ribs are raised, the sternum advances, the infra-clavicular region swells re- markably upwards and outwards (particularly in females) like a rolling wave, the supra-cla- vicular region is raised but this sometimes ap- pears comparatively deepened (merely by the action of the sterno-cleido-mastoideus), the whole apex of the thorax is rendered more ob- tuse, particularly in the antero-posterior dia- meter. The lower ribs, at their cartilaginous extremities, spread outwards, increasing both the lateral and the antero-posterior diameter of the base of the thorax, the cartilaginous (go- thic) arch formed by the junction of the 6th, 7th. 8th, 9th, and 10th ribs below the sternum, becomes more obtuse by their lateral motion, the abdominal space within this arch, down to the umbilicus, sinks inwards. Therefore this breathing is costal, commencing, with the superior ribs, and terminating over the ab- domen. The peculiar character of healthy breathing (and it is impossible to lay too much stress upon the movements of deep inspira- tion, because they are so indicative of thoracic disease) is that the ribs expand in succession. There is an indescribable undulating roll, pro- duced by the consecutive action of the re- spective ribs, which always commences with a superior rib ; — in costal breathing, a lower