1371 VEIN. free margin of valves I have occasionally seen, as noticed above, a clear, structureless rim, which I have imagined to be this membrane reduplicated, the membrane being extremely thin, and the interposd fibrous lamina not reaching quite to the margin. It is said by Henle and others only to exist in a few places, and certainly it is not always to be found, though it is not perhaps right to limit its existence to those spots only where it has been recognised, as its extreme tenuity and firm adhesion to the next coat might ac- count for its not being generally seen.* The tissue in question is best seen by slit- ting up a vein and pinning it out on cork. The inner surface is then scratched with a needle after it has been moistened. The fenestrated membrane retracts, and its edges may be ruffled up and a small portion removed by the points of very fine forceps, and thus ob- tained for examination, which is best done without any superimposed glass, as that flattens the coils and folds, and it is impossible to unravel them. Fig. 855. Transverse vertical Section of the Wall of the Subclavian Vein of an Ox, exhibiting the relative Thickness of the Three Coats. a, internal coat; b, middle coat; c, the entire ex ternal coat. (Magnitied 40 diameters.) Internal tunic of longitudinal fibres. — The internal tunic of longitudinal fibres is ex- tremely thin, and occupies but a very small amount of the thickness of the vessels' walls. This is well seen in fg.Hbb.o, which is a trans- verse section of the subclavian vein of,an ox, made vertical to the surface, and displaying * It appears to me that there are sufficient grounds to acknowledge the existence of a limitary membrane beneath the epithelium in the blood- vessels, and no sufficient reason to question its uni- versal distribution. It must be recollected that there are certain regions, even in the mucous mem- brane (the nasal fossa, for instance), where no base- ment membrane lias been found, and I am not aware that, in the skin, it has ever been separated from the chorion, and yet in neither case is its existence doubted. To exhibit the limitary membrane well, some peculiar mechanical arrangements of the sur- face is necessary, as papillajor crypts, and such are not presented on the surface of blood-vessels. It is not to be wondered at, therefore, that there is here great difficulty in displaying the limitary mem- brane. the relative thickness of the three elementary fibrous coats. Specimens for displacing the profile views of the walls of veins are best obtained by slitting up the vessel, pinning it out upon cork, and suffering it to get dry. Sec- tions are then to be made vertical to the surface, either parallel to, or at right angles with, the axis of the vessel. Thin shavings may then be removed with a very flat knife (and for this purpose, a Beer's cornea knife is the best), and when placed on a slip of glass, moistened, and covered with a square of thin glass, are ready for observation. The accom- panying drawings were made from sections thus obtained. When a longitudinal section of the in- ternal tunic is examined with a high power, as in jig. 856. a, it is seen to consist of very fine yellow elastic tissue, which is peculiarly pale and indistinct, having mainly a longi- tudinal d'rection, but being much interlaced and matted together, so that its longitudinal course is, in many situations, obscure. This coat is seen to be fine, and dense, and in strong contrast to all the other structures, from which it is separated by a distinct line of demarcation. When thus viewed, the fibres of this tunic are seen to present a succession of waves, not unlike those of white fibrous tissue, but finer and smaller : whether these undulations are from its own inherent pro- Fig. 850. Longitudinal vertical Section of Wall of Subclavian Vein of an Ox. a, internal coat rather thicker than common ; b, mid- dle coat; c, part of external coat. (Magnitied 200 diameters.) perties, or whether they are produced by its adhesion to the next tunic, whose elastic con- traction is greater than its own, thus throwing it into folds and waves, I am unable to sav. The identity of these fibres with yellow elastic tissue is shown by the action of acetic acid, which does not destroy them, but renders' them even more distinct, while the contiguous