SUBCLAVIAN ARTERIES. 826 clavian artery, but a small opening was found in the carotid from which the haemorrhage had proceeded." In this instance the innominata was healthy ; but, a little to the left of the origin of that vessel, the ancurismal tumour, which was of a pyriform shape, sprung from the arch of the aorta, and thence passed upwards into the neck, in front of, and overlapping the arteria innominata. It is an extremely interesting circumstance connected with this case, " that the tumour was filled with a firm coagulum." This is the only instance, as far as the writer knows, in which a ligature placed on the sub- clavian artery, in its first stage, became detached without the supervention of secondary hecmor- rhagc. In none of the cases where this artery alone was secured dill this circumstance occur, much less in any of these instances did "per- fect union," the result of adhesive inflamma- tion, follow the application of the ligature.* Until very recently it was thought that the ligature of the subclavian artery internal to the scaleni was feasible on the right side only, and this opinion of British surgeons originated perhaps in Mr. Colles' statement, that " this operation, difficult on the right, must be deemed impracticable on the left subclavian artery." Dr. Rodgers, of New York, has, however, lately succeeded in securing the left subclavian artery in its first stage. The result of this case does not verify the opinion of Velpeau, that " the operation would be much less dangerous on the left side than on the right," as the patient died of secondary hae- morrhage on the fifteenth day. British anatomists will be little disposed to agree with Velpeau in such a prediction, and still less will they concur with him in thinking that it would be easier to tie the left sub- clavian artery than the right; on the contrary, the great depth of the left subclavian trunk from the surface, the short distance to which it rises out of the thorax, and the close con- nection of the veins and nerves with its anterior surface, must entitle this operation to the distinction of being one of the most difficult, whilst the peculiar and unseen risk of wound- ing the thoracic duct must ever render it one of the most dangerous, in surgery. Second stage. — The subclavian artery has been tied between the scaleni muscles in a few instances. This operation was first per- formed by Dupuytren, in 1819, in a case of traumatic axillary aneurism ; the result was successful; yet there is nothing in this opera- tion to recommend it, provided there be the option of tying the artery in the supra-clavi- cular space. Dupuytren did not (as some have supposed) intend it to supersede the latter operation ; he advised it in those cases only, where the depth of the vessel in its * The full details of this interesting case, which occurred in the practice of Dr. Hobart, of Cork, will be found in the forthcoming edition of " Flood's Sur- gical Anatomy of the Arteries," edited by Dr. Power, one of the lecturers at the Richmond Hospital School, to whom the writer is indebted for the facts already quoted. third stage is unusually great, in consequence of some peculiarity of development, or the unnatural elevation of the clavicle produced by an aneurismal tumour. The anatomical objections to this innovation, which is sanctioned by the authority of Dupuy- tren, are the following, and they are suffi- ciently important to justify the conclusion that, where a choice exists, the third stage of the artery should always be selected for the application of a ligature. 1st That in order to expose the subclavian artery in its second stage, the division of two muscles is required, viz., the clavicular portion of the sterno-mastoid, and the scalenus anticus. 2d. That considerable risk of injuring the phrenic nerve is incurred. 3d. That the ligature must be in close proximity to the branches usually furnished by the subclavian artery between the scaleni, viz., the cervicalis profunda, and superior intercostal; and, 4th. That from its close connection with the artery, the cone of the pleura is en- dangered. These theoretical objections to the ligature of the subclavian between the scaleni, are not the less deserving of notice because they were originally passed over in silence, and they go far to disprove the "innoeuite" of the operation, an advantage which has been claimed for it by Dupuytren.* The objections which have just been enu- merated, are not however of sufficient weight to forbid a repetition of the operation in any case where insuperable difficulties are en- countered in attempting to tie the artery in its third stage ; under such circumstances, the surgeon would evince both skill and dexterity by dividing, as far as necessary, the scalenus anticus muscle, and thus accomplishing the object of the operation; and in so doing he would follow the example of the late Mr. Liston, who, in a parallel case, thus succeeded in securing the artery between the scaleni. Where the outer edge of the muscle alone is divided, and where proper caution is used, the safety of the phrenic nerve is not neces- sarily compromised; but without very great caution in passing the needle, the pleura will suffer injury, as it is placed in close con- tact with the back of the artery. It should also be borne in mind, that the phrenic nerve has in a few instances been seen to pass down beneath the clavicle, lying on the outer edge of the scalenus anticus muscle ; should such an anomaly occur in a person subjected to Du- puytren's operation, the nerve could scarcely escape from injury. This irregularity in the cervical stage of the phrenic nerve, has usually been seen in connection with a variety of origin of the axis thyroideus, which has been already adverted to.f * Vide " Leeons Oracles," torn. iv.; and M. Marx account of the operation in the " Repertoire Gc'nerale d'Anatomie," No. 2. t It may be presumed that the phrenic nerve was thus unusually placed in a case which occurred in the practice of Mr. Bransby Cooper, and which he