1143 TONGUE. while its posterior extremity unlike terrestrial species, is furnished with a strong retractile muscle. In some other marine gasteropoda, as the limpet, a very small portion only of the tongue is included in the head, whilst the rest of it lies folded up in the abdominal cavity,between the intestines and the muscular foot, but perfectly free ; and in some cases it is nearly twice as long as the entire length of the animal. Of the uses of this curious apparatus it is difficult to speak with certainty. The short thick tube of the terrestrial gasteropods ap- pears adapted for the trituration of food pre- paratory to its passing into the oesophagus : these species are furnished with a large, strong, horny plate, fixed in the mouth at the upper part of the head, and, consequently, the flat end of the tongue acts as an under jaw working against this horny plate. It is not easy, however, to imagine that the long nar- row tube of the whelk tribe can be used in the same way for triturating food, though the envelope of strong muscles would fa- vour that idea, while the consideration of the still longer and perfectly free tube of the limpet renders this use of the tongue among the marine gasteropoda still more improbable. It is well known that the Bucrinum undatum and its allies use the flat- tened portion of the tongue as a file, with which they bore holes through the shells of other species and then feed upon them, and the muscular apparatus by which this is ef- fected is an admirable piece of mechanism. It consists of a protractor muscle, over the anterior extremity of which the curved por- tion of the tongue is flexed, which, by its self-elongation, probably by intrinsic trans- verse contraction, projects this recurved por- tion of the tongue from the mouth, and keeps it there; when the tongue is thus pro- truded, the retractor muscle, already alluded to, attached to its posterior blind extremity, contracts rhythmically, and so pulls the re- curved portion with a sawing motion over the extremity of the protractor muscle, which acts as a pulley for it: thus the teeth which cover the outer or free surface of this reflected portion are brought into the relation, with the objects on which they are to act, the most ad- vantageous for filing them away. But this gives us no clue to the determination of the manner in which the tubular part of the tongue is employed, nor am I aware of any probable conjecture having been advanced upon the subject. Professor Loven, of Stockholm, has pro- posed a system of classification of gasteropoda founded upon the forms of the tongue-plates and their arrangement; and it is probable that conchologists will find the suggestion a valu- able one, not so much for the sole foundation of an arrangement as for a check upon classi- fication on other bases.* * For much of the above detail I am indebted to Mr. Thomson, of King's College, as well as for the specimens from which the drawings were made. Cephalopoda. Hitherto, in the insects among the Articulata, and the gasteropods among the Mollusca, we have only seen in the tongue an instrument for facilitating, mediately or immediately, the prehension of food : in the Cephalopoda we have the first structural indication of the sense of taste, and apparently in a perfection consistent with the high orga- nisation of the animal in other particulars. In both the tetrabranchiate and dibranchiate or- ders of cephalopods we meet with tongues of very similar structure, possessing in both an anterior and posterior soft papillose part, and an intermediate portion invested with a horny lamina, beset with rows of recurved spines. It is hardly possible to help seeing in this dis- tribution of parts the strong analogy it pre- sents to the mammalian tongue, in which the gustatory papilla? are situated near the tip and base, while the centre of the dorsum is occu- pied by a rough indusium, subserving the same double office as the spiny lamina of the cephalopod, protecting the organ and facili- tating deglutition. In the Nautilus the tongue is supported by an oblong horny substance, probably analogous to the basis of the hyoid bone, free at its posterior extremity, but em- braced anteriorly by two retrahent muscles which arise from the posterior margins of the lower mandible. The anterior free extremity of the tongue itself is divided into three soft, fleshy, papillar caruncles, of which the central or anterior one is the largest. Behind them the surface is invested with a thin horny plate, on which are set four longitudinal rows of recurved spines, twelve in each row, each spine being about two lines in length. Be- hind this the tongue is again soft and sensory, but the papillae are coarser ; a fleshy fold pro- jects forward from each side of the fauces, likewise covered with papillae. In the di- branchiate order the papillary structure is less perfectly developed, and the central horny lamina, instead of being in one plane, is bent at right angles into a vertical and horizontal portion, the incurved spines being set only on the vertical part. The rows of spines are seven throughout, but in the Onychoteuthk, as they descend towards the base of the plate, the outer rows merge in those next them to- wards the centre till there are only three rows. The method in which the cephalopods appro- priate their food, by tearing off piecemeal, by means of their strong and sharp mandibles, portions of the prey they have seized and are holding in contact with their mouth, renders the possession of the sense of taste of high importance to them, as the immediate contact of their food prevents their testing its nature by the sense of sight: at the same time, the full enjoyment of this sense is permitted by the nature of their food, its partially commi- nuted condition, and their protracted method of taking it. Vertebrata. — In the Invertebrata the defini- tion of a tongue depends, with few exceptions, on little more than locality and function — the requisitions of a tongue and the possession of an organ of any sort that fulfils those requi- 4 n 4