747 SPINAL ACCESSORY NERVE. the posterior and anterior spinal nerves at their origin. The spinal accessory in its course within the spinal canal frequently forms communi- cations with the posterior root of the first cervical, and much more seldom with the posterior root of the second cervical nerve.* When these communicating filaments come from the second cervical, they are generally few in number. This communication between the spinal accessory and the posterior root of the first cervical is, according to Lobstein, more frequently present than absent.f When the posterior root of the first cervical joins itself, either in whole or in part, to the spinal accessory, a branch of equal sizegenerally leaves the accessory, either at the point where it is joined by the posterior root of the first cervi- cal, as figured and described by Asch J, or a little above this junction, as figured by Hu- ber§, and described by Bellingeri.|| This branch, alter leaving the accessory, proceeds outwards, approaches the anterior root of the first cervical, and takes the place of the posterior root of that nerve.H When the posterior root comes from the accessory, it generally presents a ganglion in the usual position. Sometimes, however, though rarely, this ganglion is found on the accessory where the posterior root of the first cervical leaves it to join itself to the anterior root. This ganglion was first pointed out by Iluber ; its existence has been denied by Lobstein, Asch, Haller, and Scarpa, and it has again been described by Bellingeri. I have seen this gan- glion twice, and it was present on one side only. It becomes an interesting question in a physiological point of view to know, whether or not the whole of the filaments of the pos- terior roots of the spinal nerves which join themselves to the accessory, again leave it to form the posterior root of the first cervical. Bellingeri answers this question in the affirm- ative. " The filaments," he says, " coming from the posterior roots to the accessory are not intermixed, but only approximated, so that they can be separated by slight traction."** * Scarpa states (opus cit. p. 305.) that in a great number of bodies he examined with a special refer- ence to this point, he found a communication be- tween the accessory and the posterior root of the second cervical only in two instances. f Circa harum radicularum, qufe pro radicibus posticis primi paris habenter, communicationem illud notamus, quod soepius accessorium subire, quam eundem intactum relinquere observenter. Opus cit. p. 223. J De Primo Pare Nervorum Medullas Spinalis, tab. x. fig. 2.; et explicatio, p. 335. Ludwig Scrip. Nevr. Min. Sel. torn. i. § Opus cit. || Opus cit. p. 80. Monro secttndus has also given a representation of this communication between the accessory and posterior root of the first cervical. Observations on the Structure and Functions of the Nervous System, tab. x. fig. 2. 1783. ^[ Bischoff states (opus cit. pp. 34. 82.) that in none of the numerous instances in which he dis- sected the accessory in the lower animals, did he ever observe any filaments of the posterior roots of the spinal nerves join themselves to it. ** Opus cit. p. 81. And in another place he says, " I believe that the filaments from the posterior roots, which join the accessor}', leave it again to proceed to the posterior root of the first cervical."* From this he concludes that the accessory contains no sensiferous filaments. Miiller, on the other hand, has adduced some unusual anatomical arrangements in this nerve, which may be regarded as favouring the opinion that it contains sensiferous filaments independant of those which it may receive from the pos- terior roots of the spinal nerves. He men- tions an instance^, which he elsewhere J describes at considerable length, where the posterior root of the first cervical nerve on the right side was not present, and where its place was supplied by two bundles of fila- ments from the superior part of the spinal accessory. The upper of these bundles, at least, came from the medulla oblongata. Upon the posterior root of the first cervical thus constituted, a ganglion was formed while it was still within the Ihcca vcrtcbralis. The upper fibres of the posterior root of the second cervical of this side joined themselves to the accessory, but no nervous filaments were attached to the spinal chord in the usual position of the posterior root of the first cervical. On the left side, the posterior root of the first cervical presented its usual appearance, and was connected to the spinal accessory by some filaments of communi- cation. The filaments of the accessory arising from the medulla oblongata did not, as on the right side, divide themselves into two parts, one of these becoming the substitute of the posterior root of the first cervical: but the whole ran upwards into the accessory nerve.|| Miiller also states that Hyrtl has often seen a ganglion upon the accessory nerve opposite the entrance of the vertebral artery into the in- terior of the cranium ; and that Remak showed him an instance of a ganglion upon the spinal accessory at its passage through the foramen lacerum. " I do not, however, affirm," Miil- ler remarks in reasoning from these cases, " that the spinal accessory always contains originally sensiferous filaments, but leave it doubtful." " But in the case," he continues, " where the nervus accessorius forms an inti- mate connection with the posterior root of the first cervical, or any other nerve, we may suppose an interchange ; and this, in the same degree, will render probable the idea of Monro, * Ibid, p. 70. f Arehiv. filr Anat. und Physiol. 1834, p. 12. \ Idem opus, 1837, pp. 279—281. § Arnold (Bemerkungen fiber den Ban des Hirns und Kiickenmarks, &c, S. 181—183 ; Zurich, 1838) has published remarks upon this anomalous instance in the origin of the posterior root of the first cervical from the accessory, the object of which is to en- deavour to show that Miiller had misinterpreted the facts observed. Among other things urged with this view, is the circumstance that the pos- terior root of the first cervical does not arise usually in the same line with the posterior roots of the other spinal nerves, but somewhat anterior to these. We cannot, however, believe that so experienced and accurate an anatomist as Miiller is, could full into any such mistake as is here insinuated.