TUNICATA. 1204 referred to, by producing, and being traversed by, the ciliary currents that bring the food to the oesophageal aperture; and that the ten- tacula of Bryozoa are essentially members of the alimentary apparatus is shown by the fact, that animalcules, &c. are frequently caught and detained by the action of the tentacles, one or more of which, and sometimes even the whole, bend suddenly inwards, and secure such particles as come within their reach, thus taking the character of prehensile labial or oral appendages.* The cavity of the branchial sac is often the habitation of parasitical Entomostraca. The buccal or branchial orifice of the Asci- dians terminates, as we have already noticed, by a valvular opening in the large delicate membranous sac, which in some respects ap- pears to be a kind of crop, and in others a respiratory cavity. Opposite to it, and in the lower part of this cavity, is the commence- ment of the oesophagus (Jig. 778. d), which leads to the stomach and thence to the in- testine. The viscera are always more or less Anatomy of Dendrodoa glandaria, magnified about 3 times. (After MacLeay.} a, summit of the test open and thrown back; b, upper part of the branchial sac opened and thrown back with the test, so as to expose its inner surface and the circlet of tentacles surrounding the inside of the branchial orifice; e, the ventral sinus ; d, oesophageal aperture ; e, stomach ; f, intestine; g, anus; h, inner aspect of the external anal orifice; i, nerve-ganglion, situate between the two external orifices, and cut through in opening the animal; j, part of the test or external envelope; k, h, branched ovary, single, and on the left side. The mouth, or (esophageal orifice, is at the base of the branchial sac ; so that when the latter extends to the bottom of the cavity of the mantle, the mouth is also at the base of the mantle. When the branchial sac stops short at the middle of the muscular sac, or when it is bent upon itself, the mouth also is near the middle. In the species that have an oblong, transverse cavity, the mouth is at the postero-inferior angle of the branchial sac. The mouth is either a simple round hole or a slit, or it is an aperture divided up by slight folds or ridges. It is always destitute of lips lateral, except in Chelyosoma, where they are disposed flatwise, below the branchial sac. The convolutions of the intestine are placed between the respiratory sac and the muscular envelope or mantle, and are either unattached, except by slight filamentous processes arising from the external surface of the branchial sac, or buried in the substance of the liver and * Mr. A. Hancock, on the Anatomy of the Fresh- water Bryozoa, Annals and Mag. Nat. History, 2d series, vol. v. p. 176. See also Lister and Farre, loc. cit.