VENOUS SYSTEM. H14 from the diaphragm, and correspond accu- rately to the phrenic arteries from the aorta. The hepatic veins may be considered as forming an adjunct to the portal venous system, in connection with which they will be briefly noticed. Port al venous system.—One remarkable class of the veins of the abdomen, those of the chylopoietic viscera, do not terminate directly in the vena cava, but unite to form a large trunk—vena porta, which enters the liver, and, branching out like ail artery (hence the name vena arteriosa), forms a capillary system in the substauce of that organ. The trunk of the vena porta: is formed by the coalescence of several large veins, which return the blood from the stomach, spleen, pancreas, and from the entire of the intes- tinal tract, with the exception of the lower part of the rectum, many of the veins of which open into the internal iliac vein, as has been already mentioned. The veins which form the porta are the following: — the superior kind inferior mesen- teric, the splenic, gastric, duodenal, and pan- creatic, veins. All these are destitute of valves. 1. Inferior mesenteric vein.— The veins of the upper portion of the rectum (superior hemorrhoidal veins), sigmoid flexure of the colon, and descending colon, unite to form this vein, which ascends behind the inferior transverse portion of the duodenum and the pancreas, and opens into the splenic vein. By means of the free communications which exist between the inferior hemorrhoidal veins and the hemorrhoidal and vesical plexuses, the system of the vena porta? is connected with that of the general systemic circulation. 2. The splenic vein arises in the spleen, and, accompanying the splenic artery (which lies superior to the vein), follows a transverse direction from left to right, and passes behind the pancreas to unite with the superior me- senteric vein. Besides its proper splenic roots the splenic vein receives the veins which correspond to the " vasa brevia,1' as also the epiploic, pancre- atic, and inferior mesenteric veins. The gastric veins, of which the coronary (coronaria ventriculi) is the most considerable, likewise terminate in the splenic vein. 3. The superior mesenteric vein (grande mesaraique, Cloquei) receives the venous ca- pillaries from the duodenum and all the small intestines, also from the ascending and trans- verse portions of the colon, and passes behind the pancreas, where it unites with the splenic vein. The superior mesenteric vein corre- sponds to the artery of the same name, and is placed anterior and to the right of it. The trunk of the vena porta:, formed by the union of these two great veins (splenic and superior mesenteric), is placed at first behind the head of the pancreas, to the right of the spinal column, and a little to the left of the inferior vena cava : it next ascends, with an obliquity backwards and to the right side, between the layers of the gastro hepatic omentum to the transverse fissure of the liver ; after becoming slightly enlarged (sinus of the vena porta?), it there divides into two branches, which pass horizontally into the right and left hepatic lobes respectively. Its principal anterior relations are the follow- ing : the head of the pancreas and the duode- num, the hepatic artery, and the ductus cho- ledochus; to the two latter vessels it is related, whilst traversing the gastro-hepatic omentum ; it is surrounded by branches of lymphatic vessels and of the hepatic plexus of nerves. The portal veins, and their subdivisions in the liver, surrounded by a prolongation from the capsule of Glisson, are contained within the " portal canals," and are each accompanied by a branch of the hepatic artery, and by a branch of the hepatic duct. From these arise the vaginal and interlobular branches,which, by their inosculations, form plexuses which are similarly named. The interlobular veins sur- round the lobules on their capsular surfaces, and ultimately, having been joined by the terminal branches of the hepatic artery, enter the lobules (forming the interlobular veins), and terminate by inosculating with the intralobu- lar (hepatic) veins: "this plexus interposed between the interlobular portal veins and the intralobular hepatic vein constitutes the venous part of the lobule, and may be called the lobular venous plexus." — (Kiernan.) " The portal vein collects the venous blood from the chylopoietic viscera, and then circu- lates it through the lobules : it likewise re- ceives the venous blood, which results from the distribution of the hepatic artery to the struc- tures of the liver: these two sources of supply constitute the two origins of the portal vein, the abdominal origin and the hepatic origin." * The blood conveyed to the liver by the branches of the vena porta; is conveyed back again into the general circulation by the he- patic veins. Hepatic veins. ■— These veins arise in each lobule, from the lobular venous plexus, by a vein termed, from its position, intralobular. The intralobular veins unite with others termed sublobvlar, which, by their coalescence from the venae cava? hepaticae, these latter, usually four in number, leave the liver at its thick margin, and open into the vena cava inferior, where that vein passes between the Spigelian and right lobes of the liver. C. Cardiac Veins. The proper veins of the heart form a sepa- rate system of small extent, which communi- cates with the right auricle of the heart by the great cardiac vein. Their principal trunks are thus distinguished : ]. Great cardiac vein (anterior or great co- ronary vein). — This vein commences on the anterior surface of the heart, near its apex, and ascends in the anterior interventricular groove, as far as the base of the ventricles, where, bending abruptly to the left, it gains the back of the heart by passing round the left margin of the organ in the deep horizontal groove between the left auricle and the left * Vide Vol. III. p. 168., Art. Liver.