TONGUE. 1156 coriated, chapped, and in parts superficially ulcerated. He told nie that at one time the left side had been diseased in a similar way. The lymphatic glands behind and beneath the jaw and down the neck were enlarged and indurated, and had been so from the first. The free application of lunar caustic to the tongue lessened the affection, and the lymphatic glands became smaller and softer; but the other side became afterwards diseased, and was relieved by the same treatment; the tongue was, however, never restored to a healthy state, though, when I last saw him, there was no ulceration. There was profuse secretion of saliva ; but, with this exception, the man was remarkably healthy. Mr. Lawrence, in his Clinical Lecture, al- ready referred to, describes this condition of tongue. (Loc. cit., p. 799, case ii.) Gangrenous ulceration.—The tongue is liable to a peculiar gangrenous ulceration, called " Glossanthrax " or " Malignant pustule." It commences as a vesicle containing bloody serum ; it gradually becomes black and bursts, and the lingual tissues beneath and around it are seen to be gangrenous; this may proceed till the whole tongue is in a state of mortifi- cation : when it exists to this degree, there is fever of a profound typhoid character, with delirium, and the patient soon dies. Auilral has given an account of this disease in his Pathological Anatomy. Heyfelder narrates the case of a Prussian butcher, who, when slaughtering a diseased sheep, put the knife and held it for some time between his teeth. In two or three days the margin of his tongue was covered with black pustules. The part swelled alarmingly, and most painfully ; vio- lent fever set in, and the patient was carried off' in the course of sixty hours. I once saw a patient in low fever, who had enormous sloughing of the dorsum of the tongue, which proceeded in successive por- tions till a large deep excavation, that would have received half a walnut, was produced. Syphilitic ulceration.—Hunter* strangely fell into the error of thinking that venereal ulcer- ations of the tongue are uncommon, whereas they are the most common to which the organ is liable ; and the tongue, next to the tonsils, is more frequently attacked, in the constitu- tional forms of this disease, than any other portion of the mucous surface.. A small, circular, superficial ulcer is the most common syphilitic affection of the tongue; it begins exactly like the little ulcers of dyspep- tics, from which it cannot be distinguished. These ulcers are situated principally at the tip and along the edges of the tongue. As in almost all instances of ulceration of the tongue, the ulcer is the second part of the process, and follows the deposition of fibrinous matter under the basement membrane ; in this case in a single papilla, or a few contiguous ones, as I have already described. These ul- * Speaking of ulceration of the tongue, Hunter observes, "these are commonly supposed to be vene- real ; but I believe they seldom are." (Hunter's Trea- tise an the Venereal Disease. Page 337. 2nd Ed. 4to.) cers generally do not extend, hut yield to the most simple treatment ; sometimes, however, they do extend, and form various sized un- healthy ulcers, deep in proportion to their extent, cupped and indurated at the base. At other times they show a tendency to run in one direction, and remain superficial: I saw an example of this in a patient who had a very narrow superficial ulcer an inch in length, originating in a small circular ulcer, and ex- tending along the under surface of the tongue, on the left side, just at the point where the mucous membrane is reflected from that organ to the jaw: it was very superficial, and, as it progressed, it attacked the healthy membrane in its course. Iihagades or fissures in the tongue are not uncommon: they are ulcerated clefts, which extend down, often to a considerable depth, into thesubstanceofthetongue. Mr.Lawrence describes one three quarters of an inch deep ; though sometimes they only form a chap in the mucous membrane: he also describes one extending the whole length of the tongue, just in its centre, in the long axis ; this was deep, and with irregular ulcerated edges. When seen in the fore part of the organ, they are generally in the middle line, or nearly so ; but those further back are scattered about, and just in front of the cireumvallate papilla?, which is their most usual situation. They are commonly associated with an indurated and irregularly tuberculated surface of tongue — these tubercular lumps being sometimes like large fissured warts, at others glossy and smooth. The rhagades are generally red, while the surrounding tubercles are grey, or whitish, or, at other times, red and excoriated. The glossy tubercle, to which I have re- ferred, is a remarkable disease : it often forms with great rapidity, and as quickly disappears. It seems to consist in an effusion of lymph into the cellular tissue underlying the mucous membrane ; this effusion is very dense, and raises and distends the surface of the tongue at the affected part above the surrounding por- tions ; the effect is, that the complications of the membrane, which constitute the papillae, become unfolded, and the papillae are, as it were, opened out, — they form now one smooth extent, and stretch over a large surface, the faintest indications only of the papilla; being apparent, and sometimes they are totally ob- literated. That this is the true explanation of these smooth tubercles is evident from the fact, that as they form, and in proportion to the distension of the membrane, the papillae diminish and shorten ; and-as, under the influ- ence of medicines, the swelling decreases, they reappear exactly in the same ratio. These tubercles have little sensation or pain, unless the surface be excoriated ; they are dense, almost as hard as schirrus; their base is felt pretty deep in the substance of the tongue ; their surface is polished, glossy, and whitish— they remind me of the tongue of a fish ; they are nenerally oval or round, when smallish and single, and "they are most frequently situated on the dorsum of the tongue, about half an