TONGUE. 1129 longest; hence we see the fasciculi in these situations much larger and more densely packed than in the intermediate positions, so that they more than equal the longi- tudinal fibres that they transmit. The ex- treme lateral fibres, on the other hand, that spread out and interlace, having little more for their office than to support the longitudi- nal fibres, are very small and scanty, many of them consisting of only a single fibre, and hence at these points the preponderance of the longitudinal over the vertical and hori- zontal fibres is the greatest. Fifthly, the most deep-seated of the longitudinal fibres of the upper and under surface are underlaid by a definite floor of transverse fibres, and simi- larly the deepest of those at the side are under- laid by a floor of vertical fibres; therefore in these situations there is a strong line of de- marcation, the discs are abundant down to the bottom of the cortical layer, and there they terminate suddenly {fig. 751); but in the in- termediate positions there is no definite floor, no line of demarcation, but the discs of lon- gitudinal fibres dip down at irregular distances (figs. 748, 749, 750.). This is the general plan and rationale of the arrangement, but it is rather an exposition than a description, and it must be understood as merely referring to a transverse vertical section of the tongue, made at the most pos- terior part of the free portion of the tongue : there are often irregularities that make it difficult to recognise the plan, and, in some situations, certain disturbing forces, and su- peradded parts that quite upset its symmetry. For example, behind the anterior third of the tongue, the genioglossus is seen entering its inferior surface, and displacing all longi- tudinal fibres (fig. 747. d) ; further back, this displacement is more considerable, and we have similar infringements from other Muscles; and the intermixture of fat towards the base of the tongue tends materially to upset the regularity of the muscular arrange- ment. Yet, in spite of this, it may always be detected, ami the average of appearances will be such as I have described. The muscular fibres are neither straight nor parallel ; those of each system maintain their general direction, but their course is wavy and tortuous, and characterised by the utmost irregularity ; as the fibres pass out- wards they branch and sometimes re-unite (figs. 750, 751.), though their branchings are much more frequent than their re-unions, and hence the fasciculi are smaller and more numerous near the periphery than towards the centre (Jig. 751.) ; by these branchings of the fasciculi each set of fibres, the vertical or transverse, possesses what may be called an intrinsic network, imperfectly marked cer- tainly, but sufficient in some parts to mask their parallelism and to break up the rows of longitudinal fibres that are packed between them. The number of fibres in each of the vertical or transverse fasciculi, varies according to the part of the section viewed, and the situation in the tongue irom which it is taken ; some- times one single fibre constitutes the fasci- culus, if one may say so, sometimes many dozen. Some of the largest are the most superior of the horizontal,— those that curve up on each side towards the upper surface (fig. 750.). The same variety of size exists in Fig. 750. Portion of cortical layer of the right svpra-lateral region of the tongue, showing the interlacement of a, a, the horizontal with h, h, the vertical fibres, the longitudinal fibres filling the intervals having been removed. Magnified 30 diameters. the discs of longitudinal fibres cut across; the number of fibres in them may be counted, from two or three to thirty or forty: those nearest the surface are certainly the smallest, and they do not completely fill the meshes of the muscular network through which they pass (Jig- 751.), but a certain quantity of fibrous tissue dips down among them: this, however, only for a little way. The shape of the longi- tudinal bundles is as various as their size — circular, polygonal, triangular, elliptical, in fact, every conceivable shape (fig. 751.); they seem moulded by the fibres among which they lie, or, more correctly, they and the others among which they lie, mutually regu- late each other's shape and direction. The peculiarity, then, of the arrangement of the intrinsic muscles of the tongue is this: — that there are three sets of fibres passing through the same area, and acting in three different directions; that these three direc- tions are, in the main, at right angles the one to the other, in fact, that they coincide with