TERATOLOGY. 950 3. Fissure of the anterior abdominal Wall. a. Complete ectopia of the abdominal viscera. —The abdominal cavity is in general the last closed. When it alone remains open, the abdominal viscera only lie out of the body. The fissure is mostly extended from the ensi- form process of the sternum to the pubic bones. One of the umbilical arteries is in ge- neral wanting. Commonly this malformation is complicated with adhesion of the membranes of the ovu.m or of the placenta to the divided integuments of the abdomen, with a cloaca, with defective generative or uropoietic organs, and with an incomplete pubic articulation. b. Congenital umbilical hernia. — In a less degree of deformity, the fissure is limited to the epigastric region, above the insertion of the umbilical cord, because this part of the abdomen remains longest open. This gives origin to congenital umbilical hernia. — The umbilical cord passes under the viscera, which lie exposed, or are only covered by the peri- toneum. In the last case a sort of hernial sac is formed, which has a cylindrical or glo- bular form, and is produced by the two coats of the ovum. The external coat is th.it part of the amnion which is the covering of the umbilical cord; the internal, the peritoneum, which is con- sidered by Meckel as a continuation of the chorion from the umbilical cord. All these facts prove that congenital umbilical hernia is caused by an arrest of developement at that stage, in which a part of the abdominal viscera are contained in the sheath of the umbilical cord. The size of the tumor is variously modified by the number and by the volume of the viscera contained in it. When it contains the liver, it is of a bluish colour. The viscera lying in it, are always in an imperfect con- dition. Only four cases are known, in which the life of the malformed child lasted for any time after birth (Meckel, Cruveilhier, Ribke, Van der Voort) ; in the case of Van der Voort for eight, in that of Ribke for twelve months. In all these cases the external coat of the hernial sac has mortified, and the tu- mor has become gradually covered by the skin. An accurate diagnosis of this malformation is of great value. In two cases, in which it was rot accurately recognised, a ligature was put round the tumor, and it was cut off. One of these cases was the subject of an interesting law proceeding. c. Congenital ventral hernia. — The abdo- minal cavity may also remain open, below the umbilical cord (Fried, Hasenest, Bouchard). This produces congenital ventral hernia. The viscera lie exposed, or are covered by the peritoneum. d. Acquired umbilical hernia.— Hernia in the umbilical cicatrix ought to be distinguished from all these forms of ectopia. It is not a congenital deformity, but is produced after birth by an expansion of the umbilical cicatrix to a globular, a cylindrical, or a conical tumor. It is often observed in adults. If we adopt for these the name of acquired, and for those of new-born children that of congenital hernia, it would be better to give to the true con- genital umbilical hernia the name of hernia funiculi umbilicalis (Seiler). 4. Fissure of the pubic and hijpogastric Regions. It sometimes happens that the pubic region alone remains open. For a correct idea of the malformations produced by it, it should be borne in mind that in the Mammalia, and, as re- cent observations teach, also in Man (Bischoff, Wagner, A. Thompson, Coste, Sevres, Ar- nold), the urinary bladder is formed by the allantois. This is originally in communication with the inferior part of the intestinal canal, so as to form for both a common outlet, called a cloaca, from which arc evolved at a later period the peripheral openings of the in- testinal tube, and of the uropoietic and ge- nerative organs. The pubic bones are formed later than the iliac (Meckel) and the pre- viously existing ischiatic bones. Their forma- tion proceeds from the outside to the inside ; therefore they are at first separated from each other by a large interval, and subsequently ap- proach each other, in a gradual manner, for the formation of an amphiarthrosis. The fetus may be arrested at this period of incomplete pubic articulation. In an observation of Walter, there was a fissure in the pubic region, though the genital and uropoietic organs were not malformed. This is the normal condition of some mammalia, and of the majority of birds. An arrest of deve!opement may also take place at the period when there exists a fusion between the rectum and the allantois. Of this various forms occur. a. Formation of a cloaca.— A cloaca is said to exist, when the generative and urinary organs and the rectum have a common outlet. This is often complicated with ectopia of the tho- racic and abdominal viscera. The cloaca may also exist alone. In its highest degree, the ureters, the imperfect organs of generation, and the opening of the rectum, are situated close to each other in a circular depression (Petit). In other cases, which approach more to the natural condition, there is a primordial urinary bladder, formed of two se- parate parts (Mery), or merely constituted by its bare posterior wall. Fig. 602. shows how the fissured urinary bladder may be complicated with the formation of a cloaca. In most of the cases which I have pub- lished, the opening through which the fasces are evacuated, is formed by the ileum, and the rectum is closed or wanting. This con- firms the original formation of the intestinal tube by a mouth- and anus-gut. In a case men- tioned by Jung these two portions are quite separate, and have each its separate open- ing on the prolapsed posterior wall of the urinary bladder. When these two openings are fused, the cloaca persists, but approaches more to the natural condition. This may take place in different ways:— 1. The orifices of the ureters only may be found on the posterior wall of the bladder, or in the so-called in- verted bladder, while the rectum still coheres