1180 TOUCH. years ago."* A case of tlie same kind has been long under the writer's observation ; the subject of it being a gentleman who became blind from amaurosis soon after the age of twenty. His attention having been directed to geology and conchology, he gradually acquired a very complete knowledge of shells both recent and fossil; being not only able to re- cognise every one of the numerous specimens in his own cabinet, but also to mention the nearest alliances of a shell previously unknown to him. He has occupied himself, moreover, in freeing his fossil shells from their matrix, with a hammer and chisel, knife, &c. ; and has frequently done this with a perfection that could scarcely be surpassed, rarely injuring the specimen with his tools, and generally clearing it completely from its incrustation, where this was practicable. In this way he has succeeded in forming a very valuable col- lection of the fossils of the interesting locality in which he resides. A similar exaltation may manifest itself, under the like circumstances, in the general tactile sensibility, both of the surface and in- terior of the body, especially as affected by the vibrations transmitted through solid sub- stances ; whereby a deficiency in the sense of hearing is in some degree supplied. Thus the visitor to a school for the deaf and dumb remarks with surprise that a slight rap given by the master on the table or floor is sufficient to excite the attention of the pupils ; and finds on examination that this is not heard, but is felt by them. A minute account of his personal experience on this head is given by Dr. Kitto ; and as it involves several interest- ing physiological considerations, the principal facts mentioned by him will be here brought under the notice of the reader.—" In the state of entire deafness," he remarks, " a peculiar susceptibility of the whole frame to tangible percussions supplies the only intimations which have the slightest approximation to those which hearing affords. I was about to call this a peculiar susceptibility of the sense of touch ; but this would unduly limit a kind of vibration, which, in certain of its develop- ments, seems to pervade the whole frame, to the very bones and marrow. I do not at all imagine that there is in this anything essen- tially different from that which is experienced by those who are in possession of their hear- ing ; but it would seem that the absence of that sense concentrates the attention more exclusively upon the sensation which is through this medium obtained; and the in- timation of which, being no longer checked and verified by the information of higher organs, assume an importance which does not naturally belong to them." This sense of percussion is but little excited in the human body by the vibrations of air ; obviously be- cause there is no expanded surface adapted to receive their influence. Thus Dr. Kitto mentions that the loudest thunder makes no impression upon him, unless it shakes * " Lost Senses," vol. ii. p. 215. the house in which he is ; in which case it communicates a sensation resembling that produced by the removal of a piece of fur- niture in an adjoining room.* In like man- ner, he is utterly unconscious alike of the sound of bells, and of the vibration produced by their percussion, unless the latter be pro- pagated through solid bodies, as when he places himself in direct contact with a tower in which a powerful peal is being rung. " I re- member," he says, " that once when I was showing a young friend from the country over St. Paul's, we happened to be up examining the great clock, at the very time it began to strike. The sensation which this occasioned was that of very heavy blows upon the fabric in which I stood, communicated to my feet by contact with the floor, and by the feet diffused over the whole body. So," he con- tinues, " guns — even powerful cannon — make no impression upon this sense, unless I happen to be very near when they are fired ; in that case, I can compare the effect to no- thing better than the sensation produced by a heavy blow upon the head from a fist co- vered with a boxing glove. This effect could only be produced by the tangible percussion of the air, and by the percussion upon the ground transmitted by the feet." So, again, Dr. Kitto states that he is not conscious of even a very loud knock at the door of the room in which he is, unless the door be in such connection with the floor that the per- cussion is communicated through the latter, or unless he be himself in contact with some part of the wall to which it is hung. But, on the other hand, he states, — "The drawing of furniture, as tables and sofas, over the floor above or below me, the shutting of doors, and the feet of children at play, distress me far more than the same causes would do if 1 were in actual possession of my hearing. By being to me unattended by any circumstances or preliminaries, they startle dreadfully; and by the vibration being diffused from the feet over the whole body, they shake the whole nervous system, in a way which even long use has not enabled me to bear. The moving of a table is to me more than to the reader would be the com- bined noise and vibration of a mail coach drawn over a wooden floor ; the feet of children, like the tramp of horses upon the same floor; and the shutting of a door like a thunder-clap, shaking the very house. It is by having once heard, that I am enabled to make such comparisons as these, for the illustration of a sensation which one who has never heard, and one who is not deaf, would be alike unable to describe." The fact that the shutting of a door is felt with painful distinctness (as Dr. Kitto elsewhere mentions), even when upon a different floor, whilst the loudest ordinary knocking at the same door is not perceived, very curiously * The writer of this article, residing near a rail- way tunnel, has frequently noticed that the emer- gence of a train is indicated by the succussion of the windows of his house, before it becomes audible.