TONGUE. 1140 to be partly fibrous, partly granular : cer- these are conical and of the form the'most re- tainly something like yellow fibrous tissue moved from the filiform type, that is, their can be detected, particularly on the addition epithelium is the least abundant of all the non- of acetic acid; but those specimens that I gustatory papilla?. Secondly, becausethe struc- have examined have appeared to be more ture ot the filiform papilla? is the most incompat- granular than fibrous, and in some cases, ible that could be devised for the possession of a where there has been a fortuitous rupture of sense of touch in any perfection. And, thirdly, the papilla, there has been an abundant escape because we do find, in fact, that the centre of of a finely granular material: the exact na- the dorsum of the tongue, where the filiform ture of this granular material I have not been papilla? exist in the greatest abundance, is the able to ascertain ; it is not fatty. The me- least sensitive part of any. Therefore, unless thod of termination of vessels is sufficiently we assign the sense of touch to the gustatory conspicuous, and has been already indicated, papilla?, which the lowness of its condition at With regard to the termination of nerves I the back of the tongue, where the gustatory must confess, that, after long-continued and papilla? are so abundantly developed, seems to careful search, I have been unable to find any negative, we are driven to the conical as the thing I can construe into a looped termina- only ones that can possess it. The filiform tion. I have traced the nerve for some little papilla? remain for the third office—that of way into the simple papilla, and then, its out- clothing and protecting the exposed dorsum line becoming less and less definite, it has of the tongue ; their pilose investment ad- ceased to be visible, apparently from the loss mirably adapts them for this, and at the same of the strong refraction of the white substance time it imparts to the surface a certain pre- of Schwann. If I might hazard an opinion, I hensile power, enabling it to take hold of should say that the axis was probably de- and move readily what is placed on it, while muled of this investment, and, thus laid bare, the backward direction of the hairs adds yet underwent some specific peripheral modifi- more a special facility for transmitting food cation. In a paper by Dr. Waller, recently towards the pharynx. published in the " Philosophical Transactions Mucous glands.—These are largest and most of the Royal Society," a method of nervous abundant at the base of the tongue, where termination by open mouths is suggested : con- they occupy the space behind the circum- sidering the solid nature of the nerve-axis, this vallate papilla?, and lie immediately beneath appears to be an opinion that requires either the surface, which they raise in nodular emi- some modification, or the confirmation of re- nences. The most anterior of them form a peated and varied observations, before it can V-shaned ridge, the counterpart of that formed be received as certain. At present our means by the circumvallate papilla?, from which they of examining the termination of nerves, either are separated by a corresponding furrow, in the organs of sense or elsewhere, are im- These structures, which are true mucous perfect, and until they are less so we can hope glands, analogous to the buccal and labial, to make but little advance in this, at present, are of an oval or roundish lenticular shape : obscure subject. in front of the epiglottis they are gradually Functions of the different papilla;.—Three lost. Each gland is surmounted by a distinct offices are to be discharged by the papilla? — orifice, most conspicuous in the most posterior thev are to exercise the sense of taste, the of them, opening into a little crypt, generally sense of touch, and to form a suitable cloth- closed and collapsed, but dilatable so as to ing and protection to the tongue. Thestruc- be large enough to contain a mustard-seed, ture of the circumvallate and fungiform pa- and into the bottom of these crypts the pilla?, their shape, their position, the nature minute ducts of the glands open. Some of of their epithelium, all point them out as the these crypts I have found extending into organs that are to discharge the first-men- long and capacious canals, branching in dif- tioned function, and their nervous supply, ferent directions, and undermining the surface, which may be demonstrated with facility, I have traced some of them half or three- makes that probability a certainty. To detail quarters of an inch before they have termi- the evidence on which this conclusion is based nated in their blind extremities : their surface would merely be to repeat what the reader is quite smooth, and the orifices of the ducts will find given at length under the ''articles of neighbouring glands might be seen termi- Fiftu Nerve, Eighth Nerve, and Taste, nating in different, parts of it. They probably to which I therefore refer him. By what pa- act as reservoirs, and permit some accumula- pilla?,then, is the sense of touch exercised? I tion of the secretion, and also prevent the think by the conical, and by them in coniradis- orifices of the glands from infarction by the tinction to their non-gustatory congeners, the matters passing over the surface. Similar filiform. My reasons are, first, that the sense glands, but smaller, are seen along the sides of touch is only possessed in any perfection by of the tongue, particularly near the base ; and the papilla? at the tip of the tongue.* Now under the tip a small aggregation of them, * There can be no doubt about this fact; and it is what we might antecedently expect, because it is the most movable part, and therefore has the widest range of application ; because it is the most capable of movement, and therefore the best adapted for that which is an essential condition of touch; because we find it is the tip that we do apply to parts that we want to feel; because the tip is capa- ble of receiving a pointed form, and therefore loca- lising the impression more perfectly; and because the tip receives the most abundant supply of twigs from the fifth nerve.