TERATOLOGY. 942 The joints connected with the maxillary apparatus of some of the animals belonging to the three lower sub-kingdoms are, as was stated in the beginning, not homologous with this joint, although identical in function. For description of these parts see the articles Annelida, Arachnida, Cephalopoda, Cir- rhopeda, Crustacea, Echinodermata, Entozoa, Insecta, Myriapoda, and Roti- FERA. (S. R. Pittard.) TERATOLOGY. — Under this name, which we owe to Geoftroy St. Hilaire, we un- derstand the doctrine of congenital deformi- ties* In a scientific sense, it constitutes a part of Pathological Anatomy, and demands our interest as much as the knowledge of those other deviations from the normal state, which is ordinarily regarded as constituting that science. In fact, pathological anatomy comprises all the anomalies of the organiza- tion ; those which occur during intra-uterine life are called congenital, and those which arise during extra-uterine life acquired. We refer to the former the imperfections of the primitive formation, or what we call mon- strosities. They are those deviations of the organism which can be formed only in the earliest periods of gestation, or, at least, pre- viously to the termination of the foetal con- dition. The opinions now held with respect to these malformations differ widely from the absurd notions which influence the descrip- tions given of them by Aldrovandi, Ambrose Pare, Licetus, Palfin, and Rueff. Formerly, indeed, each monstrosity was considered as the presage of some misfortune, the warrant of divine vengeance, the effect of witchcraft, &c. Lycosthenes used to go so far as to add to the description of each monster the picture of some calamity w hich was to be its sequel. To that opinion they owe their name, derived from the Latin verb monstrare. Their aetiology was not less strange and in- correct. Rueff) in 1580, devoted a whole chapter to the inquiry, " An homines ex dae- monibus et rursus daemones ex hominibus in- fantes concipere possunt'?" and Casparus Schottns treated the subject in about the same style.f They both give negative answers to the ques- tion, trusting to have proved by this means that monsters are not procreated by sexual intercourse of women with the devil. Other writers have endeavoured to explain the cause from copulation with brute animals, or with pregnant or menstruating women. Notwith- standing our more enlightened modern ideas on this subject, the origin of monstrous births remains still very mysterious. The opinions concerning it may be reduced to two main * From Ts'^a?, monster; and hiyos, science. f I. Ruefl'us de Coneeptu et Generatione Hominis. Erancof, ad M. 1580. P. Casparus Scbottus e Soeietate Jesu, Physica curiosa, aucta et correcta, sive Mirabilia Naturae et Artis. Lib. i. § xxii. points: 1. To the original malformation of the germ ; 2. To the subsequent deformation of the embryo by causes operating on its development. I. Original malformation of the germ. — If, according to the opinions generally adopted at the present time, the germ may be considered as a product of secretion by the female organ- ism, upon which the male sperm acts with its material and vital influence, we may suppose that this germ may be originally malformed, owing to some influence proceeding either from the female or from the male sex. 1. Such a primitive malformation of the germ seems to exist in those cases in which the same kind of monstrosity is repeatedly procreated by the same parents. The cause may be ascribed : — a. To the mother. — It is a very important fact that, in such cases, various degrees of the same species of deformity are fre- quently produced in successive progression, so that the first born child is the most de- formed; and in the following children the deformity progressively decreases, and finally disappears in the last born (G. Vrolik, Vering). Sometimes a deformity of the mother is com- municated to her offspring ; for instance, con- genital luxation of the femur. b. To the father. — Experience proves that a well-formed man may procreate with dif- ferent women children with the same mal- formation (Meckel, Luber), and that a de- formity of the father may be transmitted to the child (Burdach, Osiander). The last is however rare. 2. A second proof in support of the pro- bability of an original malformation of the germ is found in hereditary deformities ex- tending over more than one generation, viz. hare-lip, excessive number of fingers, hypo- spadias, &c. 3. A third proof may be deduced from the possibility that the ovarian ova in man and in the lower animals may be already mal- formed (Bischoff). II. Deformation of the originally well-formed germ.— ). It is said that this may be produced by mental impression of the pregnant woman, or what the German authors call das Versehen. But for this opinion no positive proof can be afforded. According to the observations pub- lished thereupon, and of which a great deal may be found in the learned article Generation of this Cyclopa-dia, all the supposed mental impressions, which have been considered as the cause of malformations, took place, with few exceptions, in the last stage of preg- nancy.* And even in those cases in which an earlier period may be certified, we could object that the post hoc must not always lead to the conclusion ergo propter hoc. It is of some im- portance to appreciate the correctness of this * See my publications in Tijdscbrift v. Natimr- lyke geschiedenis en Pbysiolog-ie, d. iv. bl. 221, en tolgy. en Handb. d. Zieluch. Ontlurh. d. i. bl. 339.