876 TEETH. their sides instead of their summits (Scarus*); in Pimehdus, however, where the teeth are thus attached, the crown is bent down in the upper teeth, and bent up in the lower ones, at right angles to the fang, so that they oppose each other by the normal surfaces. Certain teeth of recent and fossil cartilagi- nous fishes have their base divided into processes like fangs, but these serve for the attachment of ligaments, and are not set in bony sockets like the true fangs or roots of the teeth of the Mammalia. Some Sharks have two divaricating fangs ; some fossil teeth referred to my genus Petalodus by Agassiz, with the specific name " radicans," have the base divided into several fangs or processes, indicating a generic distinction. The base of anchylosed teeth is, at first, attached to the jaw-bone by ligament; and in the Cod- fish, Wolf-fish, and some other species, as calcification of the tooth progresses towards its base, the subjacent portion of the jaw- bone receives a stimulus, and developes a process corresponding in size and form with the base of the tooth : for some time a thin layer of ligamentous substance intervenes, but anchylosis usually takes place to a greater or less extent before the tooth is shed. Most of the teeth of the Lophius retain the primitive ligamentous connection ; the ligaments f of the large internal or posterior teeth of the upper and lower jaws, radiate on the corre- sponding sides of the bone, the base of the tooth resting on a conformable alveolar pro- cess. The ligaments do not permit the tooth to be bent outwards beyond the vertical posi- tion, but yield to pressure in the contrary direc- tion, by which the point of the tooth may be directed towards the back of the mouth ; the instant, however, that the pressure is remitted, the tooth returns through the elasticity of the bent ligaments, as by the action of a spring, into its usual erect positions (Jig. 512, c. c. Vol. III. p. 978. art. Pisces) ; the deglutition of the prey of this voracious fish is thus facili- tated, and its escape prevented.% The broad and generally bifurcate bony base of the teeth of Sharks is attached by ligament to the semi- ossified crust of the cartilaginous jaws §; but they have no power of erecting or de- pressing the teeth at will. The small and closely crowded teeth of Rays are also con- nected by ligaments to the subjacent maxillary and mandibular membranes. The broad tes- selated teeth of the Myliobates have their attached surface longitudinally grooved to afford them better hold-fast, and the sides of the contiguous teeth are articulated together by serrated or finely undulating sutures, a structure unique in dental organisation.|| The teeth of the Sphyrccna are examples of the ordinary implantation in sockets, with the addition of a slight anchylosis of the base of the fully-formed tooth with the alveolar pa- * Odontography, pi. 49 ; and art. Pisces, Vol. III. fig. 516, p. 079. f See art. Pisces, Vol. \\\.,fig. 512 d, p. 978. % Odontography, p. 154. 8 Art. Pisces, Vol. III., fig. 510, p. 976. [[ Odontography, p. 46. pi. 27 c. rietes ; and the compressed rostral teeth of the Saw-fish are deeply implanted in sockets. In the latter the hind margin of their base is grooved, and a corresponding ridge from the back part of the socket fits into the groove, and gives additional fixation to the tooth. Some implanted teeth in the present class have their hollow base further supported, like the claws of the feline tribe, upon a bony process aris- ing from the base of the socket ; the incisors of the Balistes, e.g., afford an example of this double or reciprocal gomphosis. In fact, the whole of this part of the organisation of fishes is replete with beautiful instances of design, and instructive illustrations of animal me- chanics. The vertical section of a pharyngeal jaw and teeth of the Wrasse {Labriis *) would afford the architect a model of a dome of unusual strength, and so supported as to re- lieve from pressure the floor of a vaulted chamber beneath. The base of the dome- shaped tooth is slightly contracted, and is implanted in a shallow circular cavity; the rounded margin of which is adapted to a cir- cular groove in the contracted part of the base; the margin of the tooth which imme- diately transmits the pressure of the bone, is strengthened by an inwardly projecting con- vex ridge. The masonry of this inner but- tress, and of the dome itself, is composed of hollow columns, every one of which is placed so as best to resist or transmit in the due direction the external pressure. The floor of the alveolus is thus relieved from the office of sustaining the tooth : it forms, in fact, the roof of a lower vault, in which the germ of a successional tooth is in course of develop- ment ; had the crushing tooth in use, rested, as in the Wolf-fish, by the whole of its base upon the alveolus, the supporting plate, gra- dually undermined by the growth of the new tooth, must have given way, and been forced upon the subjacent delicate and highly vas- cular and sensitive matrix of the half-formed tooth. But the superincumbent pressure is exclusively sustained by the border of the alveolus, whence it is transferred to the walls dividing the vaulted cavities containing the germs of the new teeth ; the roofs of these cavities yield to the absorbent process consequent on the growth of the new teeth without materially weakening the attachment of the old teeth, and without the new teeth being subjected to any pressure until their growth is sufficiently advanced to enable them to bear it with safety ; by this time the sus- taining borders of the old alveolus are under- mined, and the old worn-down tooth is shed. The singular and powerfully developed dental system of the Wolf-fish (Anarrhi- c/tas Litpus) has been a subject of interest to many anatomists. The general character and physiological relations of the teeth in this species had not escaped the attention of Hunter. In his paper on the Gillaroo trout, read before the Royal Society in 1774, he ob- serves that " the teeth of fishes which subsist * Fig.5U; and art. Pisces, Vol. lll.,fig. 513, p.978„