VOICE. 1490 Epiglottis broad. L. 0'375 in. Voice more acute than in woman. Meles Europwa.—Thyroid: margins notched in front. Crico-thyroid chink triangular. Ary- Fig. 900. Anterior view of the Larynx of Ursus Malayanus. a, tubercle; b, notch of thyroid cart.; e, notch of cricoid cart. Showing the Sesamoid Cart, d d, of Ursus Ma- layanus. tenoids small. Epiglottis triangular. Ven- tricles deep, leading to two sacs, one of which lies under the root of the tongue, the other between the thyroid and cricoid cartilages.* Mustela Furo. See Wolff, Ventricles lead to sacs. Lulra Vulgaris. — Thyroid : superior and in- ferior margins parallel and inclined upwards, superior terminating in a round apex, in- ferior hollowed out in front b {fig. 901.), and protuberant; Cricoid, (c) inferior margin, so widely separated in front, as only to be slightly united at the inferior margin of the thyroid. * Cuvier was of opinion that the posterior part of the vocal ligaments produced the vocal sounds. Epiglottis, oval but not la>ge. Cart, of San torini absent. Fig 901. a, Ohlique view of the Larynx of Lutra Vulgaris, a, epiglottis; 6, thyroid; c, c, cricoid. Cants familiaris. Thyroid : margins inclined upwards ; wings unite at an obtuse angle. Cornua : superior furnished with a transverse ligament running to the thyroid as in the hyaena. Cricoid : superior margin depressed in front. Arytenoids curved, and inclined from each other. Cart. Santorini and C. Cuneiform present. Ventricles deep. Epiglottis trian- gular, having a vertical furrow at its base. L. (and consequently the pitch of the voice) varies in almost every species; modulation expressive of emotion. Feiis Leo.—Larynx : H. 3-14 in. Thyroid : margins parallel, and inclined forwards and upwards ; wings united at an obtuse angle; notch large below the pomum. Cricoid el- liptical, ridge of Galen prominent. Crico- thyroid : space large, rhomboidal, traversed in front by muscular fibres. Arytenoids rhom- boidal. Cart. Santorini absent. Vocal liga- ments : superior prominent. Ventricles deep, forming a sac between the vocal ligaments. Epiglottis : apex obtuse. Trachea 50 rings.* Voice grave, very intense ; roar terrific. F. Tigris. — H. 1-8 in. L. 1 in. The superior ligament very prominent. In other respects the larynx resembles that of the lion. Voice more acute than the lion. Purrs like the cat. F. Ijeopardus and Catus. — Larynges differ only in magnitude. The whole of the Feline order are remarkable for the prominence of the superior ligaments, by which the purring is most probably produced. c {fig. 902.)f Voice a mewing, which is well known ; also a melancholy cry by night. * Vicq. D'Azyr and Cuvier state that the rings of the trachea are not entire. Perrault, on the con- trary, describes them to be complete circles; but this is an error. t Vicq. d'Azyr ascribed the purring of the cat to two thin membranes situated beneath the inferior ligaments; but we were unable to detect them : nor could Cuvier, Wolff, Casserius, and others, succeed in finding them.