VEIN. 1373 veins, the cerebral sinuses, Bresehet's veins of the bones, and the venous cells of the corpora cavernosa. External coatof longitudinal fibres.—The ex- ternal coat consists of a mass of areolar tissue, adhering together with more or less compact- ness, and running in a longitudinal direction. This tunic occupies full two-thirds of the entire thickness of the whole wall of a vein. Its internal boundary is irregular at the union vvith the equally irregular outer limit of the middle coat, and its external boundary is the Fig. 858. Transverse vertical Section of Subclavian Vein of Ox. a, internal coat; b, middle coat; c, part of external coat. (Magnified 200 diameters.) loose cellular tissue into which it degenerates, and which constitutes the "sheath" of the vessel. This coat, like the preceding, gradu- ally diminishes in density and compactness as it is examined further and further from its inner limit, though its density is everywhere inferior to that of the middle ; indeed, it may be said that the tissue of which the vessel is composed becomes looser and looser in pro- ceeding outwards from the inner boundary of the middle coat, — this quality passing gradu- ally from one coat to the other. The textural arrangement of this tunic must be examined, like the preceding, from longitudinal and transverse sections. In the former it is seen that bundles of rods of yel- low elastic tissue are disposed in alternate laminae with white fibre, or rather, that the former are embedded in a mass of the latter, and that they are a continuation of the longi- tudinal fibres of the middle coat, which gradu- ally become arranged more and more in strata, and at increasing distances. (Fig. 850. c.) The characters of the white fibrous tissue between the bundles of yellow, become more conspicuous as the laminae are wider apart. The stratified arrangement of the fibres, and their correspondence with the longitudinal rods of the middle coat are very well seen in the specimen treated with acetic (fig- 857.). When this tunic is viewed in transverse section, the relative thickness and proportion of the lamellae are better seen than in a longi- tudinal cut: the yellow element is seen to occupy but a small relative thickness in com- parison with the white. When viewed with a high magnifying power the divided extremities of the rods of yellow fibrous tissue form undulating, and somewhat imbricated lines of discs, while the white fibrous tissue, cut across, shows slight, indis- tinct, wavy indications. (Fig. 858. c.) Seen with a low power, the ends of the yellow fibrous tissue appear as scries of dark undulating dots on a field of white. Minute veins. — When very small veins, a few removes from capillaries, are examined microscopically, they merely present faint stri- ations in the longitudinal direction. When, however, these vessels are treated with act-tic acid, nuclei and fibres are distinctly displayed, whose long axis may be assumed to indicate the direction of the tunic (or set of fibres) which they represent, in which they are em- bedded, and of which they form a part. Henle was, I believe, the first to point out this mode of textural dissection of vessels, and nothing can be more satisfactory than the analysis that it makes. By this means small vessels alone can be examined, but the scru- tiny may be carried up to those the third of a line in diameter, which are sufficiently trans- parent, when entire, to exhibit the nuclei. Small vessels may be conveniently obtained from the pia mater and mesentery ; they are there free from other structures, and their form is not interfered with. I have found, however, that it is in the pia- mater somewhat difficult to trace the small veins; the arteries about them are more de- finite and conspicuous, and less injured by manipulation, and generally catch the atten- tion of the observer. It has been more con- venient to obtain isolated cerebral veins from the surface of the ventricles of the brain ; the small veins on the corpus striatum may l e raised and torn away with the points of fine forceps, and sufficient capillaries will generally be found attached to their extremities to ex- hibit the structure of these vessels of all size1". The accompanying figures were made from specimens thus obtained, about whose venous character there could be no mistake. Small veins vary in structure in different regions, and according to their size ; some ap- approach the structure of arteries #, whilst * It may be convenient here to give a brief out- line of the anatomy of capillary, and minute, arteries. Their structure is more definite than that of veins; their walls are thicker and their cavity less in pro- portion. The larger ones exhibit both a longitu- dinal and a transverse striation. When treated with acetic acid the nuclear corpuscles are numerous, sharply defined, and obvious in their direction. Capillaries, up to about 1-lGCOth of an inch in