SUPRA-RENAL CAPSULES. 810 is filled with a more or less clear fluid. Never- theless, in Man, the gland-vesicles are generally completely filled with the morphological con- stituents of their contents. As regards the thymus, we have lately had Simon's researches extended by Ecker, Ger- lach, and Schaffher. The gland-vesicles here likewise enclose similar contents. The quan- tity of the elementary granules seems to be very variable, and nuclei form the greater part of the contents. In general, cells occur but very sparingly. According to Simon, their number is increased by involution of the organ, in which case, also, fat molecules are wont to appear in place of the elementary granules. As to the gland-vesicles, they deviate from those of the vascular glands hitherto described. In the embryo of the Adder and of Eirds, Ecker saw many completely shut gland-vesicles, which everywhere passed into sacculi by pouchings of their membrana propria. In the human thymus, and that of Mammalia generally, only a few vesicles of this kind were found, and the tunics of these exhibited the same condition. Thus the thymus gland exhibits a similarity with the clustered glands ; but is distinguished from these by the want of an excretory duct. And these differences of the gland-vesicles, toge- ther with the great number of the nuclear structures, somewhat distinguish the thymus from the supra-renal and thyroid glands. The structure of the spleen is even more different, — if it be allowable to decide upon this organ, which is so uncommonly diffi* cult of examination, from a few observations of a somewhat contradictory tendency. It is only the well-known Malpighian corpuscles which can be regarded as glandular struc- tures. In fact, this opinion would seem to be correct, since Ecker found a delicate mem- brane enclosing the vesicles. Nevertheless, lately, an opinion has been put forth on many sides, and based on continuous research, that the Malpighian corpuscles are not closed vesicles, but stand in connection with the lymphatics, so as to constitute only vesicular dilatations of these vessels. This view, which is maintained by Gerlach and Schaffher, is especially corroborated by the fact, that the contents of the splenic vesicles differ from those of the other vascular glands, and closely approximate to those of the lymphatic ves- sels. Thus we remark in their contents, cell nuclei in very predominant quantity, the dia- meter of which amounts to 2-1000ths of a line. These nuclei appear sometimes smooth, sometimes granular ; they often exhibit one or two nucleoli, whde in other instances they have none. Roundish cells of i to 5-1000ths of a line, and closely surrounding a nucleus, may also be remarked in sparing quantities. The above-mentioned relation of the Malpi- ghian corpuscles to the lymphatic vessels is probably supported by another circumstance. Another cell formation may be found in al- most every spleen, and certainly in the splenic vesicles also. They are large, globular cells, measuring from 5 to I0-1000ths of a line, and with contents of a very different kind; so that from this fact one might conjecture that they form a number of very different struc- tures, which, however, are connected with each other by transitional forms. Thus a part of these cells contain more or less dark elementary granules; another part enclose larger yellowish, or yellowish brown and tuberculated corpuscles ; while finally, other cells contain, with the latter corpuscles, one or many completely developed blood corpus- cles. This group of cells is susceptible of a double interpretation. In the first place, effused blood corpuscles may be enclosed by a cell membrane, and may be broken up into elementary granules in its interior. This view has been taken by Kolliker*, and is supported by pathological appearances. But the process may be exactly the reverse ; the blood corpuscles may be developed in the interior of the cells, and then, after the burst- ing of the cell wall, become free. And should this latter view, which is especially maintained by Gerlachf, ultimately turn out to be correct, then we shall have in the Malpighian vesicles of the spleen a new development of blood corpuscles, just such as occurs after another scheme, in the other district of the lymph and chyle system. So that the spleen would be an organ especially serving for the develop- ment of blood corpuscles, and the old ex- planation set forth by Hewson would be the correct one. But if the process be that which Kolliker supposes, the spleen will exercise the function of destroying the blood corpuscles. In any case, it is worthy of notice, that no such cells containing blood corpuscles occur in the other vascular glands. Gerlach could not discover them in the thymus gland, and they would scarcely have escaped Ecker*s careful observations of the supra-renal capsules. So likewise, in a number of examinations of supra-renal capsules, it is impossible to find the least trace of their presence. Therefore by all this the spleen is greatly distinguished from the other vascular glands. Such great differences of structure and contents will not allow us to attribute a like function and a like secretion to all these organs. Certainly we cannot at all state of what kind these differ- ences of secretion are, since the materials prepared by these vascular glands are, as far as regards their composition, completely ne- glected : but that such differences must exist, I think microscopic research will quite warrant us in saying. In this respect the thyroid gland and supra-renal capsule agree most nearly together, since in general terms, there is a great correspondence in their struc- ture. And, as the spleen is the widest se- parated from them, so it is not unlikely that future research may remove it from amongst the vascular glands. Since the chemical constitution of the se- cretion is unknown to us, we are unable to * Vide Landis's Dissertation, apparently under Kcilliker's direction, Beitrage zur Lehre tiber die Verriehtungen der Milz, Zurich, 1847. See also the article Spleen, f Loc. cit.