1243 TUNICATA. There have been certain organic remains* figured and described as belonging to the Tunicate family, but which (with the exception of the obscure and indeterminate Ischadites Koenigii) have been found to belong to the family of the Cystidea of Von Buch, closely allied to the crinoidean family of the Radiata. At first sight there is considerable resem- blance between many of these cystidean forms and the ascidian genus Bvltenia, the body being globose or subcylindrical and pedun- culated. In the Cystidea there are two more or less terminal orifices, and a third lateral aperture. The whole animal is coated with hex- agonal plates variously ornamented; the stem, perforated throughout and giving evidence of quinary arrangement. " The mouth," says Von Buch, " is planted in the central part of the upper surface, generally in a moveable proboscis, covered with minute plates ; the anal orifice is small, close to the mouth, per- forating a plate, not surrounded by separate valvules; and the third aperture, probably the ovarial orifice of the animal, is placed further towards the middle, but almost inva- riably on the upper half of the body on which the mouth is placed. It is round or oval in form, not connected with the mouth, and often covered by a five or six-sided pyramid, which seems to be composed of as many little valves." We have introduced this description that we may here point out the general similarity of the external form of these obsolete radiate animals to some of the ascidian group, and that we may in particular point out the very similar armature of ornamented hexagonal plates present in Chelyosoma, with its valve- surrounded orifices. With regard to the ad- ditional orifices, we have but to lengthen out the oviduct or efferent vessel of the Aseidia, and continue it to the surface, as in the mal- formation noticed and drawn by John Hunter, and a very similar arrangement of parts will apparently exist. There are several points of analogy between some forms of Aseidia? and of Zoophyta asci- doida (Bowcrbankia, &c.) and the Radiata: into this subject we must not now enter ; we can only allude to the observations of Messrs. Forbes and Goodsir on the Pelonaia (see p. 1239.), and leave the subject open to further investigation. Bibliography. — Besides the works, connected with the subject, that are referred to in the text, the following are some of the most important ;— Peron, Memoire sur le Noveau Genre Pj'rosoma. Annales du Museum d'Histoire Naturelle, t. iv. 1804. Lesueur, Me'moire sur reorganisation des Pyrosomes, et sur la Place qu'ils doivent occuper dans une Classification Naturelle. Lu a la Societe Philo- matique de Paris, le 4. Mars, 1815. Journal de Physique, Juin, 1815, t. lxxx. Desmarest et Lesueur, Memoire sur le Botrylle e"toile (Botryllus stellatus). La a la Socie"te Philomatique de Paris, le 22. Avril, 1815. Journal de Physique, Juin, 1815, t. lxxx. Desmarest et Lesueur, Extraits de deux Me'moires lus a la Societe' Philomatique de Paris, en Mars et Avril, 1815, sur 1' Organization de deux * Leucophthalmus, Kcenig (Spha:ronites~), Sa- conites, Raiinesque, &c. Animaux Marins place's jusqu'ici dans la Classe des Radiaires, et qui doivent etre rapportes k celles des Mollusques, &c. Bulle'tin de la Societe Philoma- tique de Paris, livraison de Mai, 1815. Cuvier, Blemoire sur les Thalides (Thalia, Brown), et sur les Biphores (Salpa, Forskaohl). Annales du Muse'um d'Histoire Naturelle, t. iv. 1804. Cuvier, Memoire sur les Ascidies et sur leur Anatomie. Me'moires du Museum d'Histoire Naturelle, t. ii. 1815. Chiaje, S. delle, Memoria sulla Storia e Notomia degli Animali senza Vertebre del Regno di Napoli, 4 vols. 4to. Napoli, 1823—1829. Ibid. Figure, 4to. 1822—1828. Savigny, J. C, Me'- moires sur les Animaux sans Vertebres, pt. i. and fasc. 1. de pt. ii. Recherehes Anatomiques sur les Ascidies Composees, et sur les Ascidies Simples, 8vo. Paris, 1810. Fleming (Dr.), British Animals, 8vo. Edinburgh. Supplem. Encyclop. Brit. art. Molluscs. Quoy et Gaimard, Voyage de l'Astro- labe, Zoologie, t. iii. Quoy et Gaimard, Voyage de POranie, t. ii. BlainviUe, Dictionnaire des Sciences Naturelles, art. Mollusques. Chamiso, Dissertatio de quibusdam Animalibus e Vermium Classe Lin- naeana. Fasc. 1. De Salpa. Berolini, 1819, 4to. MacLeay, Anatomical Observations on the Natural Group of Tunicata, with the Description of three Species collected in Fox Channel during the late Northern Expedition. Read June 15. 1824. Trans. Linn. Soc. vol. xiv. 1825. Meyen, Beitriige zur Zoologie, gesammelt auf einer Eeise urn die Erde. Erste Abtheilung, uber die Salpen. Nova Acta Acad. Cks. Leop. Car. Natur. Curios, t. xvi. pars prior, 1832. Eschricht, Anatomisk-physiologiske Undersogelser over Salperne. Royal Danish Trans- actions, vol. viii. 1841. Eschricht, Anatomisk Beskrivelse af Chelyosoma Mac-Leayanum. Royal Danish Transactions, vol. ix. 1842. Sars, Beskri- velser og Iagttagelser oder Nogle Masrkelige eller nye i habet bed den Bergenske Kyst lebende dyr af Polypernes, Acalephernes, Radiathernes, An- nelidernes og Molluskernes Classer, 4to. Bergen, 1835. Sars, Fauna littoralis Norwegian, 1st part (Salpce). Dahell, A singular Mode of Propagation among the lower Animals (Ascidia and Aplidium'). Edinb. New Philos. Journ. vol. xxvi. 1839; and Isis, viii. 1839. Dahell, On some of the rarer Animals on the Coast of Scotland, &c. Home (Sir E.), Lectures on Comparative Anatomy, vol. ii. (Satpa). 4to. London, 1814. Carus, Beitrage zur Kenntniss des inneren Baues und der Entwicke- lungs Geschichte der Ascidien. Nov. Act. Nat. Cur. vol. x. Carus, Beitrage zur Anatomie und Physiologie der Seescheiden. Meckel's Archiv. f. Physiol. B. ii. H. iv. Carus, Anatomie Compar. vol. ii. Eysenliardt, Ueber einige merkwurdige Lebens- erscheinungen an Ascidien. Nov. Act. Nat. Cur. t. xi. Lister, Phil. Trans. 1834, part ii. Milne Ed- wards, Observations sur les Ascidies Compose'es, qui se trouvent aux Cotes de la Manche. Mem. Acad, des Sciences, t. xviii. Milne Edwards, Sur la Circula- tion du Sang chez les Pyrosomes. Comptes Rendus de l'Acad. des Sciences, t. x. 1840, p. 284.; Sur la Circulation et sur 1'Existenee d'un Systemes Ner- veux chez les Salpes. Ibid. p. 408. Annales des Sc. Nat. 2de series, t. xiii. Milne Edwards, Recherehes Zoolog. faites pendant un Voyage en Sicile. Comptes Rendus, 1844, t. xix. p. 1137. Milne Edwards et Audouin, Resume des Recherehes faites aux Res Chaussey. Ann. Sc. Nat. t. xv. Gervais, Suppl. Diet. Sc. Nat. lme vol. art. Asci- dies. Coste, Recherehes sur l'Appareil respira- toire des Ascidiens. Comptes Rendus, 1842, t. xiv. Broderip and Sowerby, Observations on New Mol- lusca, &c. (Chelyosoma) Zoolog. Journal, vol. v. Johnson, Mag. Nat. Hist. 1834 (Aplidium). Penny Cyclopaidia, articles Salpacea and Tunicata. Van Beneden, Recherehes sur 1' Embryoge'nie, l'Ana- tomie, et la Physiologie des Ascidies Simples. Me'moires de l'Acade'mie Royal de Belgique, t. xx. 1847. Forbes (E ), Forbes and Hanley's History of British Mollusca, 8vo. London, parts i. and ii. 1848. (jf. Rupert Jones.)