TEETH. 913 The dentition of the Weasel tribe {Muster lidee) is illustrated (in fig. 580, IV.) by that of the Otter, Mustcla Lutra of Linnaeus, and which is essentially a great aquatic Weasel or 3 3 ] ,1 Polecat; its dental formula is i. g^g> c. j , 4, 4, j j p. -—-, m. -—- : = 36. In the Martin cats (Mustela martes, L.), the little homotype of p. 1 above is present in the lower jaw ; in the bloodthirsty stoats and weasels, p. 1 is absent in both jaws; as it is likewise in the great sea- otter (Enhydra)% in which also the two middle incisors are wanting in the lower jaw. In this animal the second premolar {p. 3) has a strong obtuse conical crown, double the size of that of p. 2 ; the third premolar (p. 4) is more than twice the size of p. 3, and represents the upper carnassial or sectorial strangely modi- fied ; the two lobes of the blade being hemi- spheric tubercles. The last tooth, in. 1, has a larger crown than the sectorial, and is of a similar broad crushing form. In the lower jaw the molar series are not separated by any interspace: the first and second premolars have oblique obtuse conical crowns. The third premolar (p. 4) is more than twice the size of the second (p. 3) and supports a large anterior hemispheric protuberance with a small internal tubercle and a posterior basal ridge. The first true molar has an oblong quadrate crown with an anterior small tubercle, a larger and more prominent inner one, and the rest of the broad horizontal surface un- dulating. The second true molar has a trans- versely elliptical crown depressed in the centre. When the teeth are in apposition, the anterior third of the first true molar below is applied to the inner tubercle of the last premolar above ; the rest of its crown plays upon that of its homotype, the first true molar in the upper jaw, leaving a small part of that tooth to receive the appulse of the second true molar below, which has no corresponding tooth in the upper jaw. The Mustelidcc present great constancy in regard to the number of their true molar teeth; with one exception, the Ratel (Melli- vora), in which m. 2 is absent below, they have one true molar on each side of the upper jaw, and two on each side of the lower jaw; the second of these has always a broad tubercular crown, like the one above. The upper true molar is supported by one inner, and sometimes by one (Putorius, Gulo), sometimes two {Mustela, Lutra, Melphilis), outer fangs. The second true molar below is also tubercular, but has a single fang. The crown of the first true molar below offers many gradations from the sectorial type, as manifested in Putorius and Gulo, to the tuber- cular type, as in the Taira, Ratel, and sea- otter. The principal varieties occur, as usual, in the comparatively less important premolars : in the Martins and Gluttons, they are as numerous as in the dog; the first, in both jaws, being implanted by a single fang ; the rest by two, with the exception of VOL. IV. the last above, which has three roots. In the otter, we find the first premolar removed from the lower jaw; and the second (now the first) shows its true homology by its double implantation, as well as by the position of its crown behind the first in the upper jaw (p. 1). In the Stoats, Skunks, and Ratels, the premolar series is further reduced by the loss of the anterior tooth (/;. 1) in both jaws, and by the diminution of the size of p. 2, which thus becomes the first in both jaws, and which is also now implanted by a single fang. In a South American Skunk, the second premolar disappears in the upper jaw, leaving there only the homologues of the third and fourth of the typical formula, p. 4 being always the sectorial in the Mustelidcs, as in other terrestrial Carnivora. This tooth, under all its modifications, retains the blade with the lobe, corresponding to the middle one in the feline sectorial, generally well developed and sharp-pointed ; the differences are principally manifested by the proportions of the inner tubercle, and the relative size of the third root supporting it. But the upper sectorial, being a premolar, and therefore requiring less modification of the crown to adapt it for its special functions, manifests a more limited extent of variety than the lower sectorial, which, being a true molar, requires greater modification of the typical form of its crown to fit it for playing upon the sectorial blade of p. 4 above-t Mclidcc.-^-In this sub-family I comprise the European Badger (Meles),, the Indian Badger (Arctonyx), and the American Badger (Taxidea) ; which, with respect to their den-» tition, stand at the opposite extreme of the, Mustclidcc to that occupied by the predaeeous Weasel, and manifest the most tuberculate and omnivorous character of the teeth. The „ . . . 3—3 1—1 3—3 formula »:—1. ^ ; c, ^ j p. ^ 5 1—1 m. : ~ 30, The canines are strongly developed, well pointed, with a posterior trenchant edge ; they are more compressed in Arctonyx than in Aides. The first lower premolar (p. I) is very small, single-fanged, and, generally, soon lost. The first above, corresponding with the second in the dog, is also small, and implanted by two connate tangs. The second upper premolar (p. 3) has a larger, but simple, sub-com pressed conical crown, and is implanted by two fangs: the third (p. 4) re- peats the form of the second on a larger scale, with a better developed posterior talon, and with the addition of a tri-tuberculate low flat lobe, which is supported by a third fang : the outer pointed and more produced part of this tooth represents the blade of the sectorial tooth and the entire crown of the antecedent premolars. The true molar in Metes (in. ]) is of enormous size compared with that of any of the preceding Carnivora: it has three external tubercles, and an extensive horizontal surface traversed longitudinally by a low 3 N