12G6 URETHRA. calculi or foreign bodies from the bladder, and thus becomes paralysed, and never after- wards recovers its normal tone. This is an unfortunate condition, as it admits of no remedy. The female urethra is occasionally the seat of inflammation: this is almost invariably of the catarrhal form, and may arise spontane- ously or as the consequence of gonorrhoea. The follicles at the meatus are especially liable to inflammation, in conjunction with the fol- licles of the vulva and margins of thenymphse. The disease is described by Dr. Oldham under the head of the " Follicular Inflammation of the Vulva." It consists of a number of slightly raised vascular points, clustering around the elevated border of the orifice of the urethra, and skirting the margins of the nymphse. The points are isolated and small ; but, as the disease progresses, several of them coalesce, and here and there a minute speck of ulcera- tion may be seen in their centre ; but little or no swelling accompanies it. Dr. Ashwell has recognised the same dis- ease, and concludes that the same is alluded to by Dr. Churchill, where he speaks of " a more circumscribed inflammation which may attack any portion of the vulva, and is often seen merely surrounding the orifice of the urethra, and occasionally confined to the clitoris." * Specific inflammation of the urethra is usually the consequence of gonorrhoea. The disease seldom attacks the female urethra until after the vagina has been some time affected. It is easily recognised by a swelling or pouting of the meatus; and on pressing upwards against the pubis the true gonorrhoeal dis- charge appears. It is accompanied with a sense of scalding on micturition and pain ; but the symptoms, for obvious reasons, are much milder than in gonorrhoea of the male. It is amenable to the same treatment. Tumours of various kinds are occasionally found connected with the meatus and the urethra itself; the former have their seat especially in the inferior labium of the ure- thral orifice. The most common is the simple vascular tumour, first described by Morgagni as " a red fungous excrescence, the size of a bean, sometimes to be observed [attached to the orifice of the urethra." It has since been recognised by others; and has been well de- scribed by Sir Charles M. Clarke. Sir C. Clarke describes it as a vascular tumour, arising from the meatus urinarius. " Its texture is seldom firm ; it is of a florid scarlet colour, resembling arterial blood, and if violence is offered to it, blood of the same colour is ef- fused. It is exquisitely tender to the touch, and if an accurate examination of it be made, it appears to shoot from the inside of the urethra. Its attachment is so slight that it appears like a detached body lying upon the parts." It is sometimes connected higher up with the urethra, and can then only be brought into view by introducing a catheter or * Ashwell, on the Diseases of Women. probe, and separating forcibly the walls of the urethra, when it will be found attached to the mucous membrane. Mr. Hughes, of Stroudwater, described a tumour " of a red colour, and of a soft, spongy texture, with an irregular, jagged surface, connected with the meatus." fie removed the meatus, which completely included the disease. Carcinomatous tumours are also met with in connection with this part. They have been described by Boivin and Duges. They are frequently associated with similar diseases of the uterus. They are generally of the ence- phaloid character, present a lobulated ap- pearance, and are exceedingly painful. If un- accompanied by disease of other organs, they can be successfully removed. Fungoid tumours of the malignant class spring occasionally from the mucous membrane of the urethra. After excision they have a great tendency to recur. They are occasion- ally associated with a similar disease of the bladder. The urethra sometimes becomes thickened along its whole extent. According to Clarke, this thickening exists principally in the cellu- lar membrane surrounding the urethra, and is accompanied by a varicose state of the cir- cumjacent veins. On examination, a bulbous tumour will be found behind the pubis, and if much pressure is made upon it, pain will be produced, but not of a severe kind."* It is accompanied with a mucous discharge from the urethra and vagina. The vessels on the surface of the tumour become so large as to admit of being opened with a lancet. When the patient is erect the size of the vessels increases, and they diminish in the recumbent position. Sometimes a pouch forms in the urethra, in which a few drops of urine are lodged : this can be emptied by pressure with the finger. The mucous membrane covering the tumour is sometimes thick, occasionally thin and shining. The disease occurs princi- pally in married women who have had child- ren ; and, according to Clarke, in those with red or auburn hair and fair complexions. The disease seems to consist of an enlargement of the veins of the part, with hypertrophy of the cellular membrane. The female urethra is rarely the seat of stricture. I have made inquiries of some of the most experienced accoucheurs in London, and they agree that stricture of the female urethra is very rare. The circumstance clearly depends on two causes; the first is the ex- treme natural dilatability of the urethra in women ; and the second is, that, although it is liable to gonorrhoeal inflammation, the dis- ease does not persist long in the canal, and consequently its tissues are not involved in protracted chronic inflammation, as is so com- mon in the male. Sir Benjamin Brodie, however, met with a case of stricture in the female urethra: it commenced at the extremity of the canal, * C. M. Clarke, on some of the Diseases of Fe- males.