TEETH. 906 of an elongated conical form, pro- jecting considerably beyond the rest, and of uninterrupted growth, are called "tusks ;" such are the incisors of the Elephant and Dugong, the canines of the Boar and Walrus : the long and large incisors of the Rodents have been termed, from the shape and structure of their cutting edge, scalpriform or chisel-teeth, " denies scalprarii" The inferior in- cisors of the flying Lemurs (Galeo- pithecus) have the crown deeply notched like a comb, and are termed " dentes pectinati." Tile canines of the Baboons are deeply grooved in front, like the poison-fangs, " dentes canaliculati" of some serpents. The compressed conical crowns of the molar teeth of the small clawed seals (Stenorhynchus) are divided either like a trident, into three sharp points, or like a saw, into four or five points ; the molars of the great extinct Zeuglodon had a similar form ; such teeth have been called dentes serrati. But the philosophical course of the knowledge of nature tends to explode needless terms of art, invented for unimportant vari- eties, and to establish and fix the meaning of those terms that are the signs of determinate species of things. The Cuviers divided the molar series of teeth, according to their form, into three kinds: "false mo- lars," " carnassials," and " tubercu- lar molars ; " and, in giving the ge- neric characters of Mammalia, based the dental formulae on this system : thus the genus Felis is characterised 2 2 as having " fausses molaires ' 2—2 carnassieres 1—I' tuberculeuses 1—1 . _ 8 „ # 0—0 * — 6 The uninterrupted line marked " Cuvier" in V. Felis of Jig. 580., intersects the teeth in each jaw called carnassieres; those anterior to them being the teeth called " fansses molaires ;" the single tooth behind in the upper jaw is the " tu- berculeuse." Most Zoologists, both at home and abroad, have adopted the Cuvierian system of formalising the molar teeth. It seems a very natural one in the case of the Cat * " Les Dents des Mammiferes consi- derees comme Caracteres zoologiques," 8vo. p. 77. In the original the numbers 4 2 2 are given f. m. ^; c. ^; t. ^, the teeth of each side being clubbed together; they are distinguished into right and left in the text, to facilitate the comparison with the formula} used in this Article. Fig. 580. Cuvier. De SI. Homologies of the teeth in Diphyodout Mammals.