1151 TONGUE. the tongue in birds. A, is that of, the snipe (Scollopax gallinagd), which is seen to be linear; B, of the fieldfare (Turdus pilaris), the epithelium breaking up into a leash of filaments at its extremity ; C, that of the king-fisher (Al- cedo ispidci), so short that it hardly projects from the surface at the bottom of its long bill; D, is the tongue of the common goose, furnished with a linear series of spines on each side, forming a serrate margin, which, with a corre- sponding serration in the upper mandible, con- stitutes a sort of sieve, through which the bird sifts and strains, as it were, the mud and water which it palpates in search of food. In the back part of the tongue, both in this and in the other figures, there is seen to be a peculiar armature of recurved spines, whose arrange- ment in the different species is constant and characteristic. Some good representations of different varieties of tongues are given in the article Aves. Mammalia,—The tongue of mammals differs not in any material point from that of man. The proportion of the different parts of its muscular structure differ more or less widely from the human type, and we find certain muscles that have no place in the tongue of man: to enter into the minutiae of these diver- sities would not, however, comport with the scope of the present article ; they must be soughtin monographs especially devoted to this part of the subject. The coincidence of the size and form of the tongue with that of the inferior maxillary arch is very general ; in the rodents this is very conspicuous, the tongue being of the same wedge shape as their cuneiform jaw. In some animals, as in the ant-eater and giraffe, the tongue admits of great elongation, and becomes an important organ of prehension. The different elements of the tegumentary sys- tem are merely modifications of those found in man : the three orders of papillae are gene- rally sufficiently conspicuous, and in most in- stances they are more regularly arranged, and their structure is more typical than in the human subject; for instance, the circumvallate papillae are symmetrical, they present a greater contrast to the rest in number, being fewer than in man, and none of the fungiform ap- proach them in form ; the shape of the fungi- form too is not liable to any variety, and they are implanted with great regularity among the conical. The conical papillae are generally true cones, and are arranged with mathemati- cal precision in lines in different directions, accordingly as they are viewed. All these papillae may be well seen in the dog. In the felidce the conical papillae of the centre of the dorsum are converted into recurved spines of great size and strength, which the animal uses in scraping the meat from the bones when feeding, and in combing its fur. Functions of the Tongue.— The phy- siology of the tongue, like its organisation, is double, all its functions being referable either to those sensory or muscular endow- ments which it possesses in so remarkable a degree. Naturally, these are intimately associated, its sensibility being necessary for the direction of its muscular action, and its movements necessary for the perfection of its sensibility; a systematic consideration of them, however, necessitates their separation, and those functions that are referable to the tongue as an organ of sensibility, have already been treated of in the articles Taste and Touch, to which the reader is referred ; it only remains for me to consider those that it possesses as an organ of motion. These are prehension, mastication, insaliva- Hon, deglutition, speech, and one or two unim- portant and non-essential offices in which it is engaged, which may be called the accidents of its physiology, as despidlion or spitting, 'whistling, &c. Of these the four first-men- tioned belong to the tongue as an organ of digestion ; they are, in fact, the first four stages of that process; all four exist in all mammalia, the first and the last in all vertebrata; speech and the other non-digestive motor functions are peculiar to man. Prehension. — The tongue is not, properly speaking, in man, an organ for the prehension of solid food, that office being performed by the hand, for which the opponent arrange- ment of thumb and fingers eminently fits it, so that the human tongue has not those ad- ditional qualifications which we find in other animals to adapt it for an organ of pre- hension. And this, I may remark, is an in- stance of a very general law—that the ascent in the animal scale is not a passage from animals with simple organs to animals with complex organs, but from simple individuals with organs of complex function, to complex individuals with organs of simple function, the addition as we ascend being, not of functions, but of parts to discharge those functions, and the advantage gained, not another thing done, but the same thing done better. Thus in man, instead of having one office more, the tongue has one office less than in many animals below him ; and the delicate and extended prehen- sion supplied by his hands, diminishes by one item the complexity of function, and, there- fore, of organisation of his tongue. So that in judging of the elevation of animals by their individual organs, supposing such a method to be admissible, we must not look to complex- ity of structure of those organs, but to the perfection of the resulting function. But to return. In the prehension of liquids, or suction, the tongue in man is engaged; constituting a movable wall of the oral cavity, it acts as a piston, and draws the liquid into the mouth by the formation of a temporary vacuum. Bichat enumerates three methods of the pre- hension of liquids, by suction, by drinking from a vessel, and by infusion into the throat; in the first two the tongue is concerned ; in the last, which seems to me hardly to deserve the name of prehension, it is not. In suction, which is peculiar to the infant, the nipple is seized by the lips, which are compressed around it by the orbicularis oris; the velum palati is elevated so as to close the posterior nares; the tongue forms, by the contraction