VEIN. 1385 Holler * denies that they are endowed with irritability. It is now placed beyond all ques- tion that veins are endowed with vital contrac- tility, and that it exists in them in two distinct and entirely separate forms — first, as a rhyth- mical contraction, similar to what occurs in the cardiac cavities ; and secondly, as that peculiar slow and prolonged contraction which is known as tonicity, and which in so striking a degree exists, and exists alone, in arteries,— the former occurring in a small portion of the venous track, the latter pervading nearly the entire venous system. To the establishment of this last physiological fact, we are mainly indebted to Professor Kolliker. Venous rythmical contraction in man and mammalia generally occurs only in the im- mediate neighbourhood of the heart, but in cold-blooded animals it extends a considerable distance along the venous trunks. Flourensf was the first to describe it in the frog, where it has frequently been since witnessed ; and Miiller has observed that the venous trunks of the frog continue to contract even after the removal of the heart and the auricle. Nysten has witnessed contraction of the upper part of the vena cava in fish ; and Wedemeyer has observed the same in other cold-blooded animals. According to Miiller the rhythm of the veins in frogs occurs just previous to that of the auricle, and the rhythm of the auricle before that of the ventricle, and the rhythm of the aortic bulb follows the ventricular: there are four successive con- tractions, of which that of the veins is the first. In mammalia the venous contraction is almost synchronous with the auricular. I have frequently witnessed it in vivisect animals—rabbits, kittens, &c. ; and it exists in the pulmonary veins as well as in the cava;. It is only in the immediate neigh- bourhood of the auricles that the veins contract, doubtless just so far as the cardiac muscle is prolonged into the venous tissues. The rhythm appears to commence upon the vein and pass forward upon the auricle. This vascular rhythm, existing in a high degree in the lower vertebrata, and diminishing in the higher, would appear, in man, to be the last remnant of the tubular heart seen in the invertebrata. It appears very probable that the contrac- tion of the veins close to the auricles may be of assistance in the economy of the heart's action. If it be recollected that the auriculo- venous orifices are not guarded by valvular apparatus, it will be difficult to explain how, when the auricles contract, the blood is pre- vented from flowing back into the patent veins: may not this be prevented to a certain extent by the contraction of the veins, which thus constitute a sort of sphincter? This rhythmical action of the veins must in no way be confounded with that peculiar venous * Sec. Mem. sur les part, sensibles et irritables : and Elem. Phys. lib.ii. p. 12(5. and lib. vi. p. 125. •(• In Annales des Sciences Natur. torn, xxviii. p. 65. pulsation which exists in certain forms of disease. Venous tonicity has lately been esta- blished by Kolliker*, and his physiological ex- periments have been based upon and fortified by the most conclusive anatomical discovery —viz. the demonstration of unstriped muscu- lar fibre in the walls of veins. Professor Kolliker's experiments were made upon the veins of a leg immediately after amputation; and the agent of muscular excitation was an electromagnetic apparatus. " The vena saphena minor was touched in the fossa poplitea, on the lower part of the leg and on the foot; the vena saphena magna on the lower part of the leg and dorsum pedis. A few seconds after the application of the wire, contraction took place ; at the end of a minute the parts touched contracted so much, that the blood that they contained in large quantities was pressed out, until the vessel had the appearance of a white cord. On smaller veins of the skin, the effect was not so rapid or so powerful." " Three applications of the wire had no effect on the vena poplitea, but it was already very flaccid and empty before the experiment. The vena tibialis postica was empty by con- traction in a minute." The irritability endured in the veins for an hour and fifteen minutes, being somewhat longer than in the arteries and lymphatics, and shorter than in the muscles. This contractile power in veins is of that peculiar character which has long been known to exist in arteries : it is slow, gradual, and persistent, and by it the vessel is braced up and set at a given calibre. This contractility, combined with the elasticity of the vessel's walls, is the antagonist to the distending force of the blood within the vessel. I have frequently noticed in animals ex- amined during life, that the large venous trunks are of greater calibre than when viewed after death : that whilst the blood flows on through the vessel, it is distended to a larger size than when from exudation and other causes the quantity of distending fluid is diminished; just as at each jet of blood pass- ing through an artery the tube is distended, in opposition to its contracted state after death,—the explanation being undoubtedly this, that immediately after death the vein- muscle becomes affected with cadaveric rigidity, and this being unopposed by the distending blood, contracts the vessel to a calibre less than that which it could hold whilst the contraction was opposed by the distending force of the circulating fluid. The same thing occurs more distinctly in arteries, and, whilst the rigor mortis remains in ac- tivity, forms a powerful opponent to injections. III. General Remarks upon Veins Origin ; Course ; Anastomoses ; Plex- uses, &c.— General considerations of veins are to be made principally in relation to arte- * Kolliker and Siebold's Zeitschrift. 1849.