1205 TUNICATA. 4 h 3 or tentacles, unless we except the peculiar longitudinal row of tentacles passing forward from the oesophageal aperture along the wall of the branchial sac in Chelyosoma and other genera. The oesophagus, sometimes obsolete, is always very short, and is more or less pli- cated longitudinally. The stomach is simple, generally merely a slight dilatation of the alimentary tube {Jigs. 777. j, and 778. e). In A. mammillata it is strongly plicated, and the pyloric extremity narrowed by little fleshy papilla;. It is some- times bent upon the intestine and adherent to it, and is often enveloped in the liver, with which it is intimately adherent. Its walls are very unequal, internally forming various la- cuna;, through which the bile penetrates, as in the Bivalves ; the little bile-ducts are guarded with valvules. In Boltenia reniformis the sto- mach is destitute of any internal folioles or lacunas ; but in Ascidia intestinalis, Cynthia papillata, C. canopus, and others, internal plica; are present; and in C. ampulla the sto- mach is almost filled up with longish folioles, and is of a light yellow colour from numerous yellowish granules contained in its tissue. In Dendrodoa the stomach is striated ex- ternally (Jig. 778. <?). In Cystingia it is very large, extending almost the whole length of the bod}', and bears externally a deep longi- tudinal depression, and is marked internally with faint transverse stria;. In Cynthia poly- earpa and C. pomaria, a little coecum occurs just anterior to the pylorus. The intestine is usually short, simple, and without cceca. In several species of Ascidia its internal surface is traversed throughout nearly its whole length by a semicylindrical, hollow, ridgelike plication, the " intestinal rib" of Savigny, having the appearance of an inva- ginated intestine. In its course, the intestine generally makes one or two folds. Its walls are thickened frequently by a glandular tissue, probably supplying some fluid necessary to digestion ; and its internal surface sometimes bears biliary lacuna;. The rectum leaving the peritoneum floats unattached, and opens oppo- site to the second or anal orifice of the mantle, so that the excrements falling into the cloaca! cavity are carried away by the current of water leaving the body. In the stomach and intestines is usually found a mass of finely divided matter, chiefly, if not wholly, derived from diatomaceous plants. Towards the posterior extremity of the intestines the ex- crements are usually moulded into little earthy-looking filaments, as in most of the Molluscs. The faeces appear to be formed into these vermiform cords in the sulcus along the side of the longitudinal intestinal fold. In A. mammillata the duodenum has several slight transverse stria;. In Cynthia ampulla the intestinal walls are internally hollowed into lacuna; and little folds, which, like the coats of the stomach, pour out a yellowish fluid like bile. In Dendrodoa the intestine is of con- siderable length. In Boltenia reniformis also the intestine is long, mounting up as high as the base of the pedicle, then descending nearly- parallel with itself and terminating in an as- cending conical rectum, the anus having a scalloped margin. In this species there are twelve subcubical bodies, separate from each other, adherent to the upper and inner surface of the rectum, having the free edge of a part of the ovary between them and the liver. In size they differ among themselves, the largest lying towards the anus, and the smallest in the opposite direction; they have no apparent communication either with the intestines, with each other, or externally. Under the micro- scope their structure appears to consist of a very fine homogeneous colourless membrane, enclosing an infinite number of excessively minute nucleated cells, readily separable from the tissue, which have much the appearance of blood globules. In Chelyosoma the digestive apparatus is large, and, from the shape of the animal, is arranged flatwise. The oesophagus commences at the posterior left corner of the branchial sac, between the two chambers of the heart. Advancing obliquely forwards, it enters the stomach, around which are clus- tered the biliary cceca. The intestine goes on to make a single bend, and, coming back to the left posterior corner, proceeds towards, and terminates abruptly at a very short dis- tance from, the anal orifice. The liver of the Ascidiadce generally occurs in a very degraded form ; it is either absent, as in Ascidia, Dendrodoa, and some Cynthia;, or its place is supplied by lacuna; and folioles on the inner coats of the intestinal canal, oc- curring, in Cynthia ampulla, both in the sto- mach and duodenum ; or, on the other hand, it is more or less amply developed, as in Bol- tenia, where it appears as an irregularly lobu- lated body, coating the stomach externally behind the right ovary, and passing from the lower extremity of the body, hall-way up, in the cavity of the mantle. The lobes differ in size: the largest are placed towards the pyloric or highest end of the stomach, and are more distinctly separated from each other than the smaller ones ; they are more or less rounded and granulated, their surface being minutely papillated and composed of minute round bodies, at first sight resembling ova. In Cyn- thia the liver is greenish, granulated, foliated, or, as in C. Dionc, caniculate. It is sometimes formed of clustered groups of flask-shaped cellular bodies, the individual cells being fixed by their larger ends, and having a radiate ar- rangement. It is intimately adherent to the external surface of the stomach, which fre- quently is totally enveloped by it. The bile enters the stomach by distinct holes at the bottom of the cavities of the little lacunae before-mentioned. In C. microcosmus, and others, the liver is divided into masses, one of which is situated on the left of the bran- chial sac and quite free of the abdomen. The liver in Ascidia intestinalis has the appearance of somewhat salient glandular bodies, situated as well on part of the intestine as on the sto- mach. In Chelyosoma this organ is represented by a cluster of short coecal tubes lying all over the external surface of the stomach. The