1308 VARIETIES OF MANKIND. and the nasal cavity, though elongated, is much contracted, especially at its upper part, so that the sense of smell is less acute in this breed than in most others. The shep- herd's dog, which Buffon very erroneously considered as the breed least modified by domestication, is distinguished by its remark- ably capacious cranium ; the temporal bones not beginning to arch over the cavity, until they have risen perpendicularly to halt* their height. In the spaniel and Newfoundland dog, the capacity of the cranium is yet greater than in the preceding ; and they are also dis- tinguished by the remarkable size of their frontal sinuses, which causes the forehead to rise almost perpendicularly from the nasal bones. The bull-dog, on the other hand, is distinguished by the shortness and extraordi- nary breadth of its muzzle ; while its cranium is less capacious than that of the shepherd's dog. The varieties in general conformation are not less remarkable than those in cranial configuration. Thus, the relative length of the tail is subject to great variation, even the number of its vertebrae differing so widely as from 16 to 21. Some races have an addi- tional claw on the hind foot; and many have an additional false molar on one or both sides. The nature of the hairy covering, too, varies in regard to its closeness or scantiness, its length, its colour, the fineness or coarseness of its texture, &c. &c. ; so that, as M. Fred. Cuvier remarks, the dog-kind presents all the varieties, in respect to the nature of the hairy covering of the body, that are to be found in the entire class of Mammalia. The form of the ears, too, is another marked feature of distinction ; these organs being short and erect in some, long and pendulous in others. The differences in habit and psychical cha- racter, also, are almost as characteristic as those of form. The greater number of dogs track their prey by scent; and this quality may be developed by care in breeding*, so that it attains its greatest excellence in the highest-bred fox-hounds, blood-hounds, and pointers. But the greyhound hunts almost solely by sight ; and, in breeding it, every care is taken to obtain swiftness and " wind," and power of enduring sudden and violent bursts of exertion. In the degree and nature of their attachment to man, again, which is the most marked psychical feature common to them all, we observe a very striking diversity. Perhaps the bull-dog is, of all the domestic- ated races, that which is least prone to seek the society of man ; yet, notwithstanding its obsti- nacy and ferocity, it does form attachments to human beings, and especially to those' whose savage nature is most akin to its own. On the other hand, the pug, which seems like a dwarf- variety of the bull-dog, is remarkably timid ; and, though possessing but little sagacity, is tolerably good tempered. The mastiff", again, * The principal mode in which the influence of man is exerted in modifying the characters of the races_ under his control, consists in the selection of those* individuals only for propagation, which display the desired attributes in the greatest perfection. possesses the determined courage of the bull- dog, but is greatly influenced by kindness, and shows a generous and intelligent nature. The setter, with a considerable degree of sagacity and intelligence, is remarkable for its affectionate and grateful nature, for its docility, and for its humble and anxious solicitude to please. Of all the races of dogs, the spaniel is the one most distinguished for attachment to man; the most timid, fond, and affec- tionate ; the most patient under ill treatment: it is, however, by no means distinguished for courage ; and though very docile, is not re- markable for native sagacity. It is perhaps in the shepherd's dog that the attribute of intelligence is most strikingly displayed, in combination with courage, fidelity, and per- severance : he lives in habits of constant familiarity with his master, learns to interpret his looks and words with an intuitive com- prehension, and allows no difficulty or danger to prevent him from carrying his directions into effect. The Newfoundland dog, perhaps, combines more than any other breed the qualities which render the race most generally serviceable toman ; although this combination is not such as fits him for any of those special uses, to which other breeds are particularly adapted. Now these differences are far greater than those which exist among the acknowledged species of the feline race * ; and therefore, at first sight, might be considered as amply jus- tifying the erection of specific distinctions among the several breeds of the canine. But the endeavour to do so would be attended with insuperable difficulties ; for, in the first place, it has been shown by M. Fred. Cuvierf, who has paid particular attention to this question, that if we assume the varieties to be permanent races, or originally distinct species, and predetermine that these races are susceptible of few or no modifications, it will be requisite to institute at least fifty different species of dogs, all distinguished from each other by recognisable characters, — a hypo- thesis which cannot for a moment be enter- tained. Moreover, every one who has much intercourse with the canine races becomes im- pressed with the feeling, that, notwithstanding the diversities of the greyhound and the bull- dog, the blood-hound and the spaniel, the Newfoundland and the terrier, they are all clogs; and there is obviously an instinctive recognition of this fact among the animals themselves, as is seen by the readiness in which the individuals of the most dissimilar breeds will fraternise together. Further, as already remarked, there is a marked ab- sence of tendency to variation in the cha- racters of the feline races, the limits of each • The writer has been assured by Mr. S. Stutch- bury, who was formerly sub-curator of the museum of the Royal College of Surgeons, that even Cuvier proved himself unable to distinguish the cranium of a lion from that of a tiger. f Recherches sur les Caracteres Oste'ologiques, qui distinguent les principal.es Races du dueii do- mestique. Annales du Bluse'um, torn, xviii.