864 TEETH. wholesome food, and to afford pleasure in the reception of it, whilst it deters from the use of such as would be deleterious. This is more obvious in the lower animals than it is in man, who is frequently led by habit and fashion to a preference for substances which are high- flavoured over those which are most whole- some, and who is still more frequently induced to gratify his gustative sense by the reception of an amount of food which appetite alone would not incite him to take in. Of the pernicious results of such excess, this is not the place to speak. The only ulterior purposes which the sense of taste appears to perform in the economy, are to aid in exciting the flow of saliva, and in certain cases to excite the act of vomiting. Although the secretion of saliva is greatly affected by other causes, — as, for example, by the movement of the jaws, tongue, &c,—yet it is much influenced by the sapid qualities of the food introduced into the mouth, being greatly increased by the taste of savoury food. It is also augmented by the sight or odour of sucli food ; but it is probable that the latter sensations influence it not so much directly as indirectly, namely, through the ideas which they call up, for the idea alone, if called up with sufficient vividness, is sufficient to make " the mouth water." The sense of nausea, as already remarked, seems intermediate between taste and touch ; but it is connected most closely with the former. We experience more or less of difficulty in swallowing all substances whose taste is peculiarly repugnant to us, and we find ourselves compelled to regurgitate them when the impression becomes of a certain intensity. This is one of the auto- matic actions in which it appears requisite that a sensation, not a mere impression, should participate. ( William B. Carpenter.} TEETH.—Comparative Anatomy. (Sing. a tooth; Tunth, Teut.; Dens, Lat.; Dente, Ital.; Bent, Fr.; Tand, Dan. ; Tain, Old English ; Zn/in, Germ. ; Dant, Welsh ; Dend, Erse ; ooovc-icovTOQ, Gr.; Dantis, Lithuanic; Dantas, Sanscrit.*) A tooth is a hard body attached to the mouth or commencement of the alimentary canal, always exposed, save where its develop- ment is permanently arrested, as in the rudi- mental tusk of the Narwhal; commonly cal- cified, the exceptions being few, e. g., the horny teeth of the Lamprey and Platypus. Teeth vary not only in their tissue, but still more in number, size, form, structure, position, and mode of attachment, in different animals : they are principally adapted for seizing, tear- ing, dividing, pounding, or grinding the food ; in some they are modified to serve as wea- pons of offence and defence ; in others as aids in locomotion, means of anchorage, instru- * These synonyms are cited as illustrative of the coincidence in one of the primary words of a natural class of languages that prevails from the East Indies, through the west of Asia and across Europe, and as indicative of the unity of stock of the great Indo- European family of mankind. ments for uprooting or cutting down trees, or for transport and working of building materials; they are characteristic of age and sex ; and in man they have secondary rela- tions subservient to beauty and to speech. Teeth are always most intimately related to the food and habits of the animal, and are therefore highly interesting to the physiolo- gist : they form for the same reason most important guides to the naturalist in the classification of animals ; and their value, as zoological characters, is enhanced by the facility with which, from their position, they can be examined in living or recent animals ; whilst the durability of their tissues renders them not less available to the palaeontologist in the determination of the nature and affi- nities of extinct species, of whose organisation they are often the sole -remains discoverable in the deposits of former periods of the earth's history. Although there are many analogous struc- tures in the inverterbrate classes, true calcified teeth are peculiar to the Vertebrata, and ma}' be defined as bodies primarily, if not perma- nently, distinct from the skeleton, consisting of a cellular and tubular basis of animal matter containing earthy particles, a fluid, and a vascular pulp. In general, the earth is present in such quantity as to render the tooth harder than bone, in which case the animal basis is gela- tinous, as in other hard parts where a great proportion of earth is combined with animal matter. In a very few instances among the vertebrate animals, the hardening material exists in a much smaller proportion, and the animal basis is albuminous ; the teeth here agree, in both chemical and physical qualities, with horn. True teeth consist commonly of two or more tissues, characterised by the proportions of their earthy and animal constituents, and by the size, form, and direction of the cavities in the animal basis which contain the earth, the fluid, or the vascular pulp. The tissue which forms the body of the tooth is called "dentine," (Dentinum, Lat.; Zahnbein, Zahnsubstanz, Germ.; F Ivoire*, Fr.) The tissue which forms the outer crust of the tooth is called "cement" (ceemcntuin, crusta jietrosa, Lat.). * The learned author of the article " Secretions," in the "Dictionnaire Universel d'Histoire Naturelle," 8vo, 1848, adopts the term " Dentine" in preference to Cuvier's name " ivoire," and after denning its properties, observes, " Sur ces divers rapports, le mot dentine, par lequel M. R. Owen les de'signe, me parait tres heureux." The term " ivory " unavoid- ably recalls the idea of the peculiar modification of " dentine," which characterises the tusks of the ele- phant, mammoth, and mastodon; but, besides this objection to its more general application, the word is used in a still wider sense in the " Leeons d'Ana- tomie Comparee: " " Les lines (dents), en effet, ont la partie enfonce'e dans l'alve'ole de'nue'e d'e'mail; cette partie, ou la racine, ne se compose generalement que de Vivoire inte'rieure, recouvert tres rarement tVivoire exte'rieure (les dents de cachalot) ;" torn. iv. Ed. posth. 1836, p. 200. The example cited of the tissue here denominated " ivoire exte'rieure " is the " cement." See my " Odontography," p. 355, pi. 89.