SOLIPEDA. 736 terminate where the rectum begins, the last- small size, in which the feeces become moulded named division of the alimentary canal pre- into balls preparatory to their expulsion, senting only a few pouches of comparatively When in a state of moderate distension, the Fig. 512. Colon of the Mare in Situ. small intestines of an ordinary size are found to measure about fifty-six feet in length from the pylorus to the caecum, with a circumference varying according to the state of contraction of the bowel from two inches and a half to six inches. The caecum is about two feet and a half long, and about two feet in circumfer- ence at its broadest part; but towards its blind termination it assumes a conical form, and terminates in a point (Jig. 511.6). Above the ileo-caeeal junction, the intestine forms a cul-de-sac (fig. 511. e), which is bent upon itself so as almost to resemble a second caecum separated from the rest of the colon by a deep contraction, and there is, moreover, sometimes a third globular cavity, situated as shewn in fig. 511. f: but this is not constantly present. The enormous colon (fig. 512. a, b, c, rf), which seems of itself to occupy the whole abdominal cavity, is divided into two por- tions : — the first (a, b) is about 2 feet 3 inches long, and, at least, two feet in circumference ; the second portion (c, d) is ofnearlvthe same dimensions ; but towards its termination, its circumference diminishes to 10 inches, and the continuation of the bowel retains that size for the length of a couple of feet, when it again enlarges to a cir- cumference of 2 feet 4 inches before its ter- mination in the rectum. The entire length of the colon and rectum taken together is 21 feet, which, added to the length of the small intestines, gives a total length of 77 feet for the intestinal canal, ex- clusive of the caecum. Liver. — This viscus in the horse is divided pretty equally between the left and the right sides of the body. It is divided into four lobes, measures about a foot and a half in its greatest diameter, and weighs between four and five pounds. There is no gall-bladder ; but the hepatic duct is extremely capacious, and evidently forms a receptacle for the biliary secretion. JSplecn. — The spleen of the horse has the shape of an elongated triangle, situated, ob-