VARIETIES OF MANKIND. 1340 berton ; and its results, published from time to time, as they were obtained, have been lately collected in a form which admits of easy comparison.* It appears, from the evidence which he has brought together, that there is no considerable difference either in the average period of puberty, or in the earliest date of menstruation, among the greater number of tribes who are scattered over the whole of the habitable globe, from the equatorial to the polar regions , and that neither has a cold climate that influence in retarding it, nor a warm one in accelerating it, which is popu- larly attributed to these agencies respectively. The only well-marked exception to this general rule, occurs in the case of the Hindoo females, among whom the first menstruation occurs on the average about two years earlier than in this country. But this only arises from the fact, that a larger proportion of first menstru- ations among Hindoo females, takes place in the earlier years of that period, over which the commencement of puberty is distributed in European females, the distribution in the latter being more equable, as will be seen by the following table, furnished by Mr. Rober- ton: — Ages. Hindustan. England. 8 3 9 8 14 10 18 55 11 80 77 12 145 142 13 139 263 14 105 396 15 45 417 16 24 340 17 18 215 18 5 138 19 3 65 20 1 33 21 2 9 22 4 23 1 1 597 2169 For whilst the average age of puberty in the Hindoo female is thirteen years, and in the British, fourteen years eleven months, the per-centage of menstruations under eleven years is nearly the same in the two countries, so that the current idea of the very early pu- berty of Hindoo females is quite incorrect ; and the difference in the average solely arises from the fact, that the greatest number of first menstruations occur among Hindoo females in the twelfth, thirteenth, and fourteenth years, whilst among the females of this country the larger proportion presents itself in the four- teenth, fifteenth, and sixteenth years. Now this difference, as Mr. Roberton justly re- marks, cannot be attributed to climate, for Demerara and the West Indian Islands have a higher mean annual temperature than Cal- * Essays and Notes on the Pfysiology and Dis- eases of Women, and on Practical Midwifery. 8vo. London, 1851. cutta and the Dekhan; and yet we know that the Negresses in these colonies are not earlier than the peasant women in England. A more probable cause, however, lies in the peculiar habits of the natives of that country, which tend, in more ways than one, to force forward the period of puberty. " It is the law of the Shastras, that females shall be given in mar- riage before the occurrence of menstruation, and that, should consummation not take place until after this event, the marriage is a sin. Accordingly, it is the custom in Lower Ben- gal to send the girl at the age of nine years to the house of her husband, unless the latter be so distant that it cannot be done ; and two ancient Hindoo sages are of opinion, that if the marriage is not consummated before the first appearance of the catamenia, the girl becomes 'degraded in rank.' At Bangalore it would seem that this revolting custom does not obtain, the husband refraining from taking his wife to his own house till not less than sixteen days have elapsed subsequently to puberty."* Now, it can scarcely be ques- tioned that such a premature sexual excite- ment will have a tendency to accelerate the epoch of puberty; and that, when this is con- stantly acting through a long succession of generations, an early puberty may come to be a character of race. But besides this modus operandi of the custom in question, the fol- lowing has been pointed out by Mr. Ro- berton : — "When it is recollected that the consummation of marriage among the Hindoos has taken place, at the latest, on the arrival of puberty, during a lapse of more than three thousand years, and that the practice is sanc- tioned by ancient laws and consecrated by custom, it is easy to conceive that those females who were latest in reaching puberty, would be the least sought after for wives,—that such women would not be unlikely, in many in- stances, to remain unmarried,—and that thus (owing to the origination of a preference on this ground in the selection of their wives, operating through a long period of time) Hindoo women would gradually come to con- sist, in a proportion different from that in Europe or elsewhere, of such as by constitu- tion are early nubile. To me there seems no- thing extravagant or far-fetched in this sup- position. The production of a like state of things in England, in any particular district, is quite conceivable. Nothing is better esta- blished, than that early (or late) puberty is a family peculiarity. Let us, then, only sup- pose families, possessing this kind of consti- tution, to intermarry, and the peculiarity in question would be propagated, extended, and transmitted ; and so a race, distinguished by it, would be produced."-)- It is a justification of this view, that the mean age of puberty should differ in Bengal and the Dekhan, to the extent of nearly a year, being twelve years six months in the former province, and thirteen years five months in the latter, notwithstand- ing its warmer latitude ; for, as just stated, * Op. cit. p. 131. t Op. cit. p. 129.