]510 WRIST-JOINT (Abnormal Anatomy). As to this case of Deborah O'Neil, no am- biguity existed. At the time the writer thus laid her case before the meeting, accompanied by casts of her forearms, she was, and had been for many years previously, an inmate in the House of Industry, under the constant observation of the whole medical staff of the institution. The history of her life was known. Left Forearm. It was stated that she never met with any accident, and that the peculiar deformity observable in each forearm and wrist-joint had existed from her birth. The writer, in continuation, observed, that while congenital malformation was known very frequently to affect simultaneously both sides of the body, yet it would, on the other hand, be very difficult for any one to suggest what pro- bable accidental causes could be imagined capable of dislocating the bones of both wrist- joints, in opposite directions, as in the case of O'Neil: besides, the mere displacement of the bones of both forearms at the wrist-joint, con- stituted only a part of the abnormal state of things noticed, because both of the forearms were so short as to measure only half the length of the arm, and did not exceed in length the measurement of the long axis of the hand. The history of her case, then, from her birth—■ the negative evidence as to the existence of any previous accidental cause adequate to ac- count for the appearances, and the actual abnormal condition of both the upper extre- mities of O'Neil — all taken together, suffi- ciently proved her case to offer a curious spe- cimen of congenital malformation of both wrist-joints and forearms." When the writer presented this case to the meeting of the Pathological Society, he laid before the members two casts of the mal- formed extremities of the patient, and when the drawing of Cruveilhier's case (pi. 2. liv. ix.), was placed along side of the cast of the right forearm of O'Neil, every one pre- sent agreed in the opinion that the cast pre- sented an exact counter-part of Cruveilhier's drawing (Jig. 921.). Deborah O'Neil, five years subsequently to this date, died suddenly of apoplexy, in the Government Asylum, Island Bridge. Dr. R W. Smith, the surgeon of the institution, made a post mortem examination of the affected arti- culations. The result fully proved, as had been anticipated, that her right wrist-joint in every respect resembled the remarkable case brought forward by Cruveilhier. Post Mortem Examination.—Upon the 15th 'ig. 926. Case of O'Neil. of December, 18i3, Mr. Smith exhibited be- fore a meeting of the Dublin Pathological Society, the skeleton of the limb in this case. The right extremity presented an example of luxation of the carpus forwards, while in the left was afforded an instance of displace- ment of the carpus backwards. Bight Extremity. — The upper arm and hand, as already mentioned, bore a just pro- portion to each other, and to the stature of the individual, but the forearms were scarcely one half the usual length. The first range of the carpus was articulated with the anterior aspect of the radius, which bone was only Fig. 927. Skeleton of Right Forearm. Case of O'JVeil. {After Smith.) four inches and a half in length (Jig. 927.). The ulna, six inches in length, was prolonged below the radius nearly half an inch, its lower