SPLEEN. 794 instance, in the hilus of a large calf I found only four trunks of lymphatics, which toge- ther possessed a diameter of only 176-1000ths of a line; while the interior of the spleen is also poor in lymphatics, for, so far as I have seen, the numerous plexuses of lymphatic trunks in the coats of the spleen have no rela- tion with the interior of the organ, but at least the greater number of them belong solely to the subserous areolar tissue. As to the distribution of the lymphatics in the spleen, it may easily be seen, by observ- ations on oxen, that they only follow the course of the arteries, lying with these in- side the sheaths; while the veins, which take a solitary course, and (as was before mentioned) possess no sheath, are also devoid of these companions. I have not seen the commencement of the lymphatics, yet I can state for a certainty, that they have nothing to do with the Malpighian corpuscles, since these corpuscles are completely closed, as was before mentioned. And, I will add, in support of this my view, that the small arte- ries which pass to the Malpighian corpuscles are no longer accompanied by lymphatic vessels; at least microscopic examination detects no trace of such vessels within their sheaths. Just as little does the pulp possess any lymphatics ; for if these, like the nerves (see below), pass from the sheaths of the arteries into the pulp, they would in such a case be visible. And from what has been said, I conclude that the lymphatic vessels of the interior of the spleen belong wholly and solely to the sheaths of the arteries, and not in the least to the pulp or the Malpighian corpuscles ; and thus that here they play pre- cisely the same rather subordinate part which they do in the liver, where they pertain to the capsule of Glisson, and not to the glandu- lar substance ; or as in the kidneys, in the interior of which they only accompany the bloodvessels. Concerning the structure of the lymphatic vessels, I can only state thus much ; that in the calf they possess, at least in their main trunks, three membranes : — 1. An epithelium similar to that of the arte- ries ; 2. A circular fibrous membrane, com- posed of two or three layers of very distinct unstriped muscular fibres ; 3. An outer mem- brane of white fibrous tissue. Valves occur in the deep as well as in the superficial lymph- atics. 8. Nerves. — The nerves of the spleen arise from the splenic plexus, and accompany the splenic artery as two or three interlacing trunks, and divide in such wise at the giving oft'of its branches, that each artery receives one, or very frequently two nerves, which accompany it, and here and there anastomose with each other. The thickness of the primary nervous trunks varies very much in different creatures. Thus in the sheep, and especially in the ox, they are of really a colossal size, and taken all together, their diameter equals that of the empty and contracted splenic arteries; while in man and the pig they are no way remarkable in size, and are many times smaller than the arteries. These differences, which led the earlier authors to speak of the splenic nerves in similarly different expressions, were at first altogether inexplicable to me, since I could not understand why the spleen of one animal should possess so much larger nerves than another. On a more careful examin- ation, the microscope gave a very simple and unforeseen explanation. The uncommon size of the splenic nerves of Ruminantia depends solely on this, — that the white fibrous tissue of these nerves is disproportionally developed in the shape of the so-called " fibres of Remak," while it is much less prominent in the same nerves of other animals. A com- parison of the splenic nerves of the pig and calf has taught me that if we limit our inquiry to the number of primitive nerve fibres, scarce any difference exists between the two sets of nerves. But, on the other hand, the primi- tive nerve fibres of the pig lie very closely together, so that they cannot be numbered without- considerable trouble ; while as an example of their condition in the calf, I will adduce the following: — The trunks of the nervesenteringthe hilus were seven in number, with a diameter of -57, "2, -048, -6, '48, -48, •6 (line); and they contained respectively only 28, 7, 6,9, 13,9, 22 primitive nerve fibres. In the lower animals, the nerves may be followed with the knife for a considerable distance into the spleen, much further than in man; and with the help of the microscope, I have very frequently followed them even on the arteries which go to the Malpighian corpuscles. I have been just as little able as Remak to find any ganglia on the arteries in the interior of the spleen. Concerning their mode of termi- nation, I am only able to say thus much ; that the nerves also pass into the pulp, and may even be easily seen on the pencils of arteries, and finally that they disappear as very small branches of not greater size than the smallest capillaries ; but I am unable to decide whether they terminate by means of Fig. 539. A. very small nerve from the Spleen of the Calf, with- out any visible primitive nerve fibres, and apparently consisting only of yienrilemma (or fibres of Remak). Magnified 350 diameters.