THORAX. 1037 same characters in both sexes. There is little difference in the height of the two apices. The elevation of the liver on the right side does not necessarily cause the right apex to be the higher. The right lung is more shallow than the left; but this is not because it is " pushed up," but because, in order to ac- commodate the liver, there is less lung- substance on the right side. If the mean of a series of observations represents the right side of the thoracic cavity as equal to 151, the left may be given as 182. The same may be said of both sexes. (b) Posterior region. — If we examine this region upon a cast of the thoracic cavity, we observe in the middle line a deep fossa, formed by the projection, to the very centre of the thoracic cavity, of the bodies of the dorsal vertebrae. This fossa is wider towards the base of the thorax, as may be seen by comparing the dif- ferent sections of the cast (compare the notches, 10, 11, and 12, with those of 3,4, and 5 in fig. 668.). Fig. 668. iili rffliiliL, ! Ill '"iffliii lie IP ill IP u i llllll; llii ''UlilP1 Sections of a cast of the thorax showing the space encompassed by each pair of ribs respectively. The bodies of the thoracic vertebras, form almost a complete septum ; they are certainly a central column of support for the whole trunk of the body, bearing an equal distri- bution of the superincumbent weight in all directions. There is no part of the skeleton which more strikingly demonstrates that man was destined for the erect posture, than this central position, together with the increasing dimensions from above downwards, of the vertebral column. These conditions exist only in the human subject. The groove in the cast formed by the dorsal vertebrae is directed upwards and forwards, so that at the apex of the thoracic cavity it completely divides the lungs, producing two little cones laterally for the lungs, forming the right and left apex. At the base of the thorax this perpendicular column again completely divides the lower lobes of the two lungs. The shape of the posterior part of the cast is that of a curve directed upwards, and sharply forwards, near the apex {fig. 6C7.). This curve near the apex is, like the form of the apices, very various. An inflated lung assumes the same shape as this cast, giving even the marks of the ribs. The student, in order to have a correct idea of the lungs, should remove them from the body with the heart attached ; then inflate them to their utmost, when their shape, their lobes, and relative mass before and behind, are clearly seen. If now we inspect the cavity of the thorax itself, we find that the bodies of the vertebrae by their projection as above described, divide the posterior portion of' the chest into two vast lateral grooves, which lodge the posterior portions of the lungs; these two grooves, partaking of the form of the thorax, are consequently conical in their configuration. They lodge fully one half of the entire lungs. This is worthy of remembering in reference to diagnosis, particularly when pneumonia is sus- pected ; in such cases auscultation of the dorsal region demands as much attention as that of the anterior region. Though less vulnerable to phthisis pulmonalis, yet it may lodge disease in parts comparatively remote, and where in- flammation may insidiously gain serious ground upon the patient, particularly in children. (c) Lateral region. — This precisely corre- sponds with the external lateral view of the thorax (compare fig. 667. with Jig. 680.); it presents indentation of the ribs, resembling a diagonal, curved, grate. (d ) The base of the thoracic cavity has been described above. Conformation as affected by age and sex. — Age alters the conformation of the chest. In the earlier periods of existence the thorax is the smallest of the three great cavities, probably from the inactivity of the lungs. In the foetal thorax the antero-posterior dia- meter exceeds the transverse diameter, the sternum projecting forwards, and the heart and thymus gland filling up the middle of the cavity. The ribs in fcetal life are less curved, and conse- quently those deep grooves, seen in the interior of the chest on each side the spine, formed by the angle of the ribs, so conspicuous in after life, are almost wanting ; the vertical depth also is much less at this period, because the lungs are unexpanded and unemployed, while the abdominal viscera, particularly the