TUNICATA. 1212 fluid layer, another thin transparent membrane, an organised layer forming the periphery of the vitellus, and lastly of the soft yolk in the centre, the vitelline membrane and the blas- toderm forming one with the vitelline mass. The external membrane and the albuminous layer beneath it appear to be formed exter- nally to the ovum by the oviduct or the ovary; and as they envelop the ovum after its com- plete development, they may be considered only as accessory parts. It being uncertain whether the ova in which these changes take place, have been subjected to fecundation whilst still in the ovary or ovi- duct, there arises the interesting question as to what extent of modification, even to the disappearance of Purkinje's vesicle, and the mulberry-like condition of the vitellus, can take place before the ovum has received the stimulus of the seminal element. During the changes of the ovum in this first period of its development, the colour of the egg is occasionally subject to certain modifica- tions. In Ascidia grossulavia, the ova become of a bright red colour, and in some species no change of colour takes place. In Arnaroucium^ a compound Ascidian, the ova change from a pale to a deep yellow. The second period of development is marked by the prolongation of one side of the yolk to form the caudal appendage. The ovum has now a chorion, albumen, and yolk, the two latter being separated by a fine membrane. The vitelline or embryonic mass becomes con- tracted about its middle, and is somewhat bean-shaped. From this time there are ob- servable two extremities, one lengthening it- self, as the other becomes more and more globular; and respectively representing the caudal appendage and the body (Jig. 781. e). Development of Cynthia ampulla. (After Van Beneden.") A, ovum, with the vesicles of Purkinje and Wagner, b, the same further advanced, with surrounding vitelline globules, c, the central vesicles have disappeared, owing to the development of the vitellus; the ovum presents the appearance of an agglomeration of ova, or the mulberry-like aspect, d, further developed ovum, with double external membrane and intervening transparent liquid, e, the yolk elongated, partially divided in the middle; the larger portion becoming the trunk, and the narrow portion the tail, of the larva. F, the embryo at the full term of incubation : a, anterior process ; b, eye; c, integu- ment. G, the same, further advanced; the caudal portion entirely absorbed, leaving the tegumentary elongation empty; a, anterior process. H, the same, further advanced; superficial appendages still present; internal organs more distinct. I, embryo nearly perfect; a, branchial orifice with tentacles; b, anal orifice; e, eye; d, oesophageal collar; e, (?); //, ciliated circles, rudiments of respiratory organs; g, g, g, muscular bands. The former of these becomes more and more elongated, following the outline of, and fold- ing itself around, the body, which is included in the ovum, as in many reptiles. In Arnaroucium, according to Milne-Ed- wards' observations, the tail is formed by the marginal portion of the yolk being condensed, at the same time that the body is flattened, and then separated from it throughout its length. Van Beneden, however, remarks, that in the simple Ascidians, as we have stated above, the tail is rather an elongation of one part of the yolk, and that, like the exterior organs of all other animals, it is formed by extension and not by division or separation. The body part of the embryo has an in- ternal cavity, and is formed of the yolk; it is surrounded by the membrane, which becomes the skin of the body and tail. The caudal appendage is hollow, and communicates with the central cavity ; it does not in Ascidia: pre- sent the spiral or zigzag cavity observed in the BotryUidee. There is soon formed within the embryo another layer distinct from the exterior, and which is destined to become the parietes of the intestinal tube. There exist then two layers, internal and external, from which all the organs are derived. In the thickness of the external layer, near the middle of the body, and rather superiorly, occurs a black pigment- cell, which Van Beneden regards as a rudi- mentary eye. In Arnaroucium, Milne-Edwards has observed one or two blackish oculiform points towards the posterior extremity of the body. The chorion is now ruptured, and the larval embryo appears with a pellucid membrane covering its body and tail (Jig. 781. f). This membrane has been already mentioned as in- vesting the ovum at a late stage of the first period of its development, immediately after