TASTE. 857 suit of the impressions made upon the senso- rium through a refined and acute touch, and by the effect of their odorous emanations upon the organ of smell. After making full allow- ance, however, for all such as can be thus ac- counted for, there remains a large class of pure sapors, of which we take cognizance without the assistance of smell, and which are alto- gether dissimilar to any tactile impressions : such are the bitter of quinine, the sour of tar- taric acid, the sweet of sugar, the saline of common salt, &c. The smell can give us no assistance in distinguishing small particles of these bodies, since they are either entirely inodorous, or so nearly so as only to be recognizable through its means when in large masses ; and the most refined touch cannot afford any indication of that kind of difference among them, of which we are at once rendered cognizant by taste. Still the gustative sensa- tions scarcely differ more from the tactile than some of these last differ among each other,— the sense of heat and cold, for example, from the simple sense of contact or resistance ; and we shall find that the analogy between these two senses is so strong, both as to the con- ditions under which they are respectively ex- ercised, and the structure of the apparatus through which the impressions are received, that they must be regarded as much more nearly related to each other than either of them is to the other senses, or than the latter are amongst themselves. The seat of the sense of taste is always at the entrance to the alimentary canal; and its purpose is obviously to afford a means of dis- crimination among the substances introduced into the mouth as food. The surface of the tongue is undoubtedly the special organ of taste in the higher animals ; but there is ade- quate evidence that the sense is not entirely restricted to that organ, even in man ; and it would seem improbable, considering the ob- vious purpose of the sense, that it should be wanting in that very large proportion of the animal kingdom in which no tongue exists, or in which the surface of that organ is so hard and horny as to forbid our attributing to it the possession of gustative sensibility. Without affirming (with Magendie) that the specific gustative sensibility extends over the teeth, the gums, the palate, and the pharynx, we feel justified in stating that in most persons it is distinctly present on the surface of the soft palate, especially in the neighbourhood of the uvula, and on that of the arches of the palate and of the fauces; and in a less degree on the surface of the anterior part of the soft palate. In making experiments upon this point, as well as upon many others connected with the sense of taste, it is important to bear in mind that if aromatic substances be em- ployed, the impressions derived through the sense of smell may confuse the result; and also that if the sensory surface be too much exposed to cold air, its sensibility will be greatly diminished. Further, it should be borne in mind that a considerable amount of individual difference may not improbably exist, both as to the extent of the gustative surface, and the relative acuteness of the sense in different parts. Conditions of the Sense of Taste. — In order that gustative impressions may be communi- cated to the sensorium, the first requisite is an afferent nerve, endowed with the power of receiving and transmitting them. The gusta- tive surface in man and the higher animals being supplied by two afferent nerves, — the glosso-pharyngeal, and the lingual branch of the fifth pair,— we shall have to inquire whether both of these are subservient to the sense of taste, as well as to that of touch ; or whether, as in the case of the organs of smell, sight, and hearing, there is one nerve of special and another of general sense. The peripheral extremities of both these nerves are in relation with a papillary apparatus, in which they are elevated above the general surface, and come into close proximity with capillary loops ; and here, as elsewhere, it appears certain that the neighbourhood of cir- culating blood is an essential condition for the reception of sensory impressions. For the gustative nerve-fibres to be impressed by the distinctive properties of sapid substances, it would further seem requisite that these sub- stances should be brought into immediate relation with them, and that they should pene- trate, in the state of solution, through the investments of the papilla2, into their sub- stance. This would seem to be proved by the two following facts: first, that every sub- stance which possesses a distinct taste is more or less soluble in the fluids of the mouth, whilst substances which are perfectly insoluble do not make their presence known in any other way than through the sense of touch ; and, second, that if the most sapid substance be applied in a dry state to the papillary sur- face, and this be also dry, no sensation of taste is excited. Hence it may be inferred that, in the reception of gustative impressions, a change is produced in the molecular condi- tion of the nerve-fibres, or, to use the lan- guage of Messrs. Todd and Bowman, their polarity is excited, by the direct agency of the sapid matter itself. This change may be in- duced, however, both by electrical and mecha- nical stimulation. If we make the tongue form part of a galvanic circuit, a peculiar sen- sation is excited, which is certainly allied rather to the gustative than to the tactile, and which does not seem to be due (as at one time supposed) to the decomposition of the salts of the saliva. And, as Dr. Baly has pointed out*, "if the end of the finger be made to strike quickly, but lightly, the surface of the tongue at its tip, or its edge near the tip, so as to affect not the substance of the organ, but merely the papillae, a taste some- times acid, sometimes saline, like the taste produced by electricity, will be distinctly per- ceived. The sensation of taste thus induced will sometimes continue several seconds after the application of the mechanical stimulus." * Translation of Milller's Physiology, p. 1002, note.