VISION. 1452 covers, and is inserted into, the anterior one- eighth of an inch of the choroid membrane, which is in this part tougher and firmer than elsewhere, and united in a very special manner to the lens by the ciliary processes, through the medium of a firm tough membrane, and of a strong elastic fibrous membrane proceed- ing from it to the margin of the lens, and yet not quite to its margin, for an elegant arrange- ment exists, the canal of Petit, by which traction is made, not on the vitreous around the lens, nor on the edge of the lens itself, so much as on its anterior surface. I confess it seems to me very difficult to doubt that this complicated system of parts is intended to advance the lens towards the cornea, so as to bring forward, up to the retina, the focus of a near object, which would otherwise fall be- hind the nervous sheet. It is possible also, I think, from the peculiar direction taken by the ciliary muscle, that it may compress the front of the vitreous, and thus help to throw for- ward the lens." * An ingenious theory has been suggested by Sturm, and supported by Matteuci, founded on the results of Chossat's measurement of the eye of an ox, to the effect that in place of comparing the optical apparatus of the eye to a system of spherical lenses whose axes are blended, we ought to consider the organ as composed of several refracting media, sepa- rated by surfaces which are neither exactly spherical, nor even of revolution or symme- trical about a common axis. Reasoning from this, he argues that a peculiar refraction of the rays of light takes place, whereby tne retina is placed in what he terms a focal in- terval, which focal interval will change its position according as the external luminous point recedes from, or approaches to, the eye and that the retina will be always met by the concentrated fasciculus around the axis in the focal interval; the surface of intersection of this fasciculus and of the retina being very slightly modified, in order that the impression may not be sensibly altered, or the perception rendered indistinct. This theory is, however, decidedly open to objection, and is rendered unnecessary by that of. Mr. Bowman. Magnifying lens. — It has been already stated that the apparent magnitude of an ob- ject depends upon that of the angle of vision under which it is seen, and this increases in proportion as the object is brought nearer to the eye ; but the magnitude of the angle of vision being limited, we are obliged to resort to artificial means to enlarge it further than, in its natural condition, is admitted of. The pin-hole aperture affords some assistance, but the convex lens more. The following is the mode in which it acts : — Let cd be a convex lens, and ab an object lying within the focal length of the glass, then all the rays passing from a point of the object ab will diverge after their passage through the lens, exactly as if they came from the corresponding point of the image ab ; an eye * Lectures on the Parts concerned in the Opera- tions on the Eye, p. 60. Fig. 889. a behind the lens would be able to see the ob- ject distinctly through the lens if the image ab were at the distance of distinct vision. In this case, however, the object being much nearer the eye, it could not be seen without the lens. The magnifying power of the lens therefore depends essentially on the means it gives us of bringing the object very near the eye, and thus increasing the angle of vision. Abnormal Vision. In the consideration of abnormal vision, we propose to divide the subject into 1. Abnormal Vision resulting from defec- tive action of the retina or sensorium ; as Achromatopsy, Hyperchromatopsy, and Anorthopia. 2. Abnormal Vision arising from faulty con- figuration of the eye, or from changes in the refractive media ; as Myopia, Pres- byopia, and Cylindrical Eye. Amaurosis, C/impsia, and other morbid conditions, do not fall within the scope of this article. Achromatopsy (a not, xp^na colour, dty the eye), or insensibility of the eye to colours, is an affection which has been recognised nearly two hundred years; but, although cases have been from time to time published in the Phi- losophical Transactions and other scientific works, our knowledge of the phenomena of this singular condition is of recent date, and is chiefly due to the labours of Wartmann, Seebeck, Szokalski, Purkinje, Himly, &c. Various names have been proposed for this imperfection of vision ; but the majority are exceedingly unmanageable. By Sommer ami Szokalski the term chromato-])scadopsis has been employed; Goethe proposed to call it akyano-blepsis, whilst Purkinje divided the disorder into four varieties,—aehromalopsis, chromato-dysopsis, akyano-blepsis, and anery- thro-blcpsis ; others again have been satisfied with the simple term chroma!o~metablepsis. Jiingken employs indifferently the denomina- tions of achromatopsy, chromatopscudopsy, and ckromatonietablepsy. Many writers, however, have adopted the term Daltonism, proposed by Prevost, and supported by Wartmann ; and, although objectionable as perpetuating the in- firmity of an individual, it has the merit of simplicity and easy inflection. The term achromatopsy is, perhaps, that most usually employed, although, strictly speaking, it is only applicable to one class. Still, being ex- tensively recognised, we shall adopt it to de- signate this imperfection of vision ; occasion-