VARIETIES OF MANKIND. 1303 4 o 4 degree of change which does take place in the several races of mankind, between infancy and old age, there is seldom much difficulty in collecting information. 2. The influence of external conditions in modifying the conformation both of Plants and Animals, is a question of fundamental importance in the determination of the value of specific characters. In this respect there is a very extraordinary diversity among the several races of living beings, even among those which are most nearly allied to each other ; for whilst some possess such a capacity for variation, that they are easily influenced by changes in external conditions, and can, in consequence, readily adapt themselves to these, to others this capacity seems altogether denied. It is from this circumstance that we find particular species, of plants, as well as of animals, restricted to particular conditions in regard to climate, food, &c, their constitu- tions not being able to adapt themselves to any considerable change ; whilst others are more widely dispersed, simply because their constitutions can accommodate themselves to alterations in these conditions. Hence a change of food or climate, to which the latter soon become habituated, is fatal to the former. We see this difference well marked in the Feline tribe ; for whilst the greater part of the larger species, such as the lion and tiger, are inhabitants of tropical regions, and cannot endure the winter's cold, even in the temperate zone, the domestic cat follows man in almost all his wanderings, and can sustain extremes of heat and cold as well as he can himself. This accommodation is effected by a change in the organism itself, of which evident indications are frequently presented, even within the course of a short time: thus, sheep transported from this country to the West Indies soon loose their covering of thick wool, and acquire in the place of it a short, fine hair, shining and smooth, like that of the goat in his best state, so that after a few years the sheep can scarcely be distinguished from the goats, save by their general con- formation ; and in this, too, from the usual absence of any considerable accumulation of fat in the bodies of the sheep, there is not nearly so much difference between the two races, as there is in temperate climates. The continued action of the same cir- cumstances for a few generations, gives in- creased permanence to the new characters of the breed, so that acquired peculiarities of conformation become congenital. Thus, Sir C. Lyell mentions* that some Englishmen engaged in conducting the mining operations of the Real del Monte Company in Mexico, carried out with them some greyhounds of the best, breed, to hunt the hares which abound in that country. The great platform, which is the scene of sport, is at an elevation of about 9000 feet above the level of the sea, and the mercury in the barometer stands habitually at the height of about 19 inches. * Principles of Geology, seventh edit. p. 568. It was found that the greyhounds could not support the fatigues of a long chase in this attenuated atmosphere, and before they could come up with their prey, they lay down gasping for breath ; but these same animals have produced whelps, which have grown up, and are not in the least degree incommoded by the want of density in the air, but run down the hares with as much ease as the fleetest of their race in this country. In fact, it can- not be reasonably questioned, if the history of the domesticated races of animals be fairly considered, that changes in external condi- tions are capable of exerting a very decided influence upon the physical foim, the habits and instincts, and the various functions of life, in species possessing this adaptiveness. The variations thus induced extend to con- siderable modifications in the external aspect, such as the colour, the texture, and the thickness of the external covering; to the structure of limbs and proportional size of parts ; to the relative development of the organs of the senses and of the psychical powers, involving changes in the form of the cranium, and to acquired propensities, which, within certain limits (depending, it would appear, on their connexion with the natural habits of the species) may become hereditary. Of the changes in psychical characters thus induced by external circumstances, the fol- lowing are trustworthy examples. We are informed by M. Roulin (to whose researches on the changes which the domesticated races, introduced by the Spaniards into South Ame- rica, have subsequently undergone, we shall frequently have occasion to refer), that a race of dogs employed for hunting deer in the platform of Santa Fe, in Mexico, is distin- guished by the peculiar mode in which they attack their game. This consists in seizing the animal by the belly, and overturning it by a sudden effort, taking advantage of the moment when the body of the deer rests only upon the fore-legs; the weight of the animal thus thrown over, being often six times that of its antagonist. Now, the dog of pure breed inherits a disposition to this kind of chase, and never attacks a deer from before while running; and even should the deer, not perceiving him, come directly upon him, the dog steps aside, and makes his assault upon the flank. On the other hand, European dogs, though of superior strength and general sagacity, are destitute of this instinct; and for want of similar precautions, they are often killed by the deer on the spot, the cervical vertebra; being dislocated by the violence of the shock.* A new instinct has also become hereditary in a mongrel race of dogs, employed by the inhabitants of the banks of the Magda- lena almost exclusively in hunting the white- lipped peccari. The address of these dogs consists in restraining their ardour and attach- ing themselves to no individual in particular, but keeping the whole in check. Now, among these dogs, some are found, which, the very * Annales dei Sciences Naturelles, 1?29, torn, xvi. p. 16.