1397 VEIN. Phlebectesis — Varix. — Dilatation of veins is not only the commonest morbid change in veins, but is the most frequent single patho- logical condition that occurs in the human body. Varix is a condition of vein which occurs in every possible variety of degree, and in va- rious localities, and is generally developed by the superaddition of some mechanical exciting cause upon a constitutional predisposition, — by the operation of some local physical in- fluence upon veins, which, in common with the other veins of the body, already possessed an abnormal laxity or softness of texture that favours their dilatation. The structure of veins, already described, pre-eminently favours their dilatation: — a structure consisting almost solely of longitu- dinal fibres, with comparatively few in a cir- cular direction to brace up its calibre, pre- sents little to restrain its dilatation beyond the lateral adhesion of the contiguous fibrous rods and their matting together by a certain amount of lateral branching. The coats of veins moreover are very thin, and the amount of distending force applied to them often very considerable. The anatomical relations of certain veins give them, when in a state of varix, consider- able peculiarities, and various distinctive ap- pellations have been conferred upon such local affections, — varicocele, hccmorrhoids, &c.: their pathological identity is, however, indisputable. Though varicosity of the veins is, for the most part, confined, in one individual, princi- pally to one locality, it nevertheless appears to depend upon a vice pervading the entire venous system, the effects of which are more particularly called out in one locality by the existence of some mechanical excitant there present. 1 cannot at all agree with Hasse and Landouzy, " that the full development of this disposition in one locality 'prevents its out- break in another." This doctrine has, how- ever, been supported by a show of argument. Thus it may be truly said that haemorrhoids, varicocele, and varicose subcutaneous veins very seldom exist together in the same indivi- dual : the concurrence of either two of them is unusual, and much less frequent than their solitary development ; and moreover the dif- ferent forms are met with, as a rule, in different classes of society : — thus haemorrhoids are most frequent in the affluent, varicocele in the sensual, and varix of the lower extremities in the labouring classes. Again, the different forms appear at different periods of life, —> varicocele about or soon after puberty; haemor- rhoids and other varix usually about man- hood. But all these arguments fail, when it is recollected that in each of these suggested instances there is some special circumstance, which, acting as an excitant, superadded to a previous constitutional disposition, might ac- count for the particular locality in which the disease makes its appearance, and the parti- cular time at which it occurs. If in all these instances obstruction to the circulation cannot be made out, there is some cause of greater vascular activity, which is also seen to be efficient in the production of phlebectesis. Haemorrhoids are most frequent in the af- fluent, because their mode of life leads to greater vascular activity in the alimentary canal, and to frequent portal obstruction: varicocele in the sensual, from the greater stress of blood upon the spermatic veins ; at puberty also, from the same cause: the la- bouring classes likewise are afflicted with saphenous varix on grounds similarly expli- cable. It is because there is particular em- phasis laid on one particular organ in each of these cases that the specific form of phlebec- tesis is assumed in the separate examples. And where such influences have been compound, other effects have followed, combining more or fewer forms of varix. It cannot therefore be said that one form of phlebectesis prevents another, or even diminishes the chance of its formation ; the truth is, that the same indivi- dual is not liable to be exposed to the exciting cause of more than one form,— that the pre- disposing condition of the veins may be uni- versal, but in one set alone is the morbid change called forth.* Phlebectesis may conveniently be divided into several forms. Andral has made the fol- lowing division : — " First species. Simple dilatation, unat- tended by any other alteration, either affect- ing the whole length of the vein, or existing only at intervals. " Second species. Dilatation of the veins, either uniform or at intervals, with thinning of the parietes at the dilated points. " Third species. Uniform dilatation of the veins with increased thickness of the parietes. " Fourth species. Dilatation of the veins at intervals with thickening of the parietes at the points where the dilatations exist. " In these two latter species, the vessel in- creases in length as well as in breadth, and in consequence becomes quite tortuous in its course. " Fifth species. Dilatation of the veins, with the development of septa or partitions, which divide the interior of the vessel into small compartments, that allow the blood to stag- nate or to coagulate, &c. " Sixth species. Dilatation of the vein, its in- terior being divided into a number of separate compartments, as in the preceding species, and in addition its parietes drilled by a number of minute holes, which allow the blood to pass from the vein into the surrounding cel- lular tissue," &c. These include all the forms of phlebectesis as far as systematic division is concerned. * This may be very pointedly illustrated by in- stancing the two spermatic veins in varicocele re- spectively. It cannot be said that varix of the left prevents varix of the right spermatic vein; for both, not nnfrequently, occur together. It cannot be said that there is any difference in structure or constitution between the two veins in the same in- dividual. Then, why should the left, and the left alone, be, in nine out of ten cases, affected ? Simply because a strong mechanical influence operates on one and not on the other vein. i v 3