983 TESTICLE (NORMAL ANATOMY). 3 r 4 arise from" the nearest largest trunks, and enter the substance of the gland at its pos- terior part. The artery of the vas deferens, from which the gubernaculum is chiefly sup- plied, is nearly as large as the spermatic. The long course taken by the arteries and veins of the testicle when in the scrotum is thus ex- plained by the original site of the organ, to which circumstance must also be ascribed the sharp turn upwards of the vas deferens from the epididymis, the two being continuous in a direct line, whilst the testicle is in the ab- domen. Fig. 636. Diagram of the gubernaculum and testicle previous to its descent. 1, the kidney; 2, the testicle; 3, 3, the peritoneum' 4, vas deferens passing down into the pelvis by the side of the bladder; 5, the bladder; G, the abdo- minal ring; 7, 7, Poupart's ligament; 8, pubic por- tion of the cremaster; 9, fibres of the cremaster arising from Poupart's ligament; 10, portion of the gubernaculum attached to the bottom of the scro- tum. Between the fifth and sixth month of fetal existence, sometimes later, the testicle begins to move from its situation near the kidney towards the ring, which it usually reaches about the seventh month. During the eighth month it generally traverses the inguinal canal, and by the end of the ninth arrives at the bottom of the scrotum, in which situation it is commonly found at birth. The testicle, both during its passage to the ring and through the inguinal canal, carries along with it its original peritoneal coat, adhering by the reflexion of this membrane, during the whole of its course to the parts behind, in the same manner as whilst situated below the kidney. The testicle therefore does not pass directly and abruptly into a pouch prepared to receive it, but carries the peritoneum with it, con- tinuing to be connected to the parts behind by the reflexion of the membrane, between the folds of which the vessels and nerves join the gland. In the passage of the testicle from the abdomen to the bottom of the scrotum, the gubernaculum, including its peritoneal investment and muscular fibres, undergoes the same change as that which takes place in certain of the rodenlia at the access of the season of sexual excitement; the muscle of the testicle is gradually everted, until, when the transition is completed, it forms a mus- cular envelope external to the process of peri- toneum, which surrounds the gland and front of the cord. As the testicle approaches the bottom of the scrotum, the gubernaculum di- minishes in size, owing to a change in the dis- position of its areolar elements ; the muscular fibres, however, undergo little or no diminu- tion, and are very distinct around the tunica vaginalis in the recently descended testicle. The mass composing the central part of the gubernaculum which is so soft, lax, and yield- ing, as in every way to facilitate these changes, becomes gradually diffused, and after the arrival of the testicle in the scrotum, contri- butes to form the loose areolar tissue which afterwards exists so abundantly in this part; the middle attachment of the gubernaculum, which may be traced to the dartos at the bottom of the scrotum, gradually wastes away and soon becomes indistinct, though slight traces of this process often remain to the latest period of life. Thus, after death, in dragging the testicle of an adult out of the scrotum by pulling the cord, the lower part of the gland, which is uncovered by serous membrane, is often found connected to the bottom of the scrotum by a band of firm and dense areolar tissue, which requires division with the scalpel. This band is the remains of the middle attachment of the gubernaculum. In cases in which the testicle has been re- tained in the groin, I have traced a cord of dense tissue from the gland to the lower part of the scrotum. After the arrival of the tes- ticle in the scrotum, the peritoneum with which it is closely invested, its original en- velope, becomes the inner layer of the tunica vaginalis ; whilst the pouch around, which is continuous with it, forms the outer layer, or vaginal sac. Immediately after the arrival of the testicle in the scrotum, this bag commu- nicates with the abdomen, and in quadrupeds continues to do so during life; but in the human subject it soon begins to close, and when the fetus is ushered into the world, the abdominal orifice is often shut, and the whole canal from the ring to the upper part of the gland is, in general, completely obli- terated in the course of the first month after birth. The obliteration is effected by an intimate union of the surfaces of the serous membrane. It sometimes does not take place at all*, or is delayed or only partially com- Fig. 637. Diagram of the testicle immediately after its arrival in the scrotum, the cremaster being everted. 1, the testicle; 2, the shortened gubernaculum ; 3,3, the peritoneum; 4, portion of the cremaster arising from Poupart's ligament; 5 pubic portion of the muscle. * The communication constantly remains open in quadrupeds, the chimpanzee, according to Professor