TONGUE. 1150 movement, and, in an instant, the tongue has been shot out, has again disappeared, and with it its prey has disappeared too, the whole being performed with a velocity that startles one afresh every time it is witnessed. Aves.—The tongue of birds may be stated, in general, to be, like that of reptiles, prehensile and non-gustatory. Taste and mastication, or, at any rate, taste and some delay of the food in the mouth, always go together; in birds the food experiences no delay in the mouth, but, in almost all cases, is bolted at once. In most instances, true prehension, or the seizing of the food, is performed by the bill, in some few by the tongue ; in nearly all, however, the securing of it when in the mouth is effected bj the tongue, which is armed near the base with numerous spines, directed back- wards (Jig. 763. ABD), that prevent the regress of the prey, whether alive or dead, and which, with a similar structure at the roof of mouth and throat, must greatly assist the first stage of deglutition. The structure of the tongue of birds is generally such as not to admit of intrinsic elongation ; its protrusion therefore can only be effected by the move- ment of the organ en masse ; and this is pro- duced to a surprising extent by a particular arrangement of the hyoid bone and its muscles, which I will now describe. The general cha- racter of the hyoid bone of birds, as already stated, is elongation — longitudinal extension, and to this add the fact of the suppression, entire or partial, of osseous or ligamentous attachment of the hyoid elements to the skull, such attachment being inconsistent with the required free movements of the organ. From the posterior part of the body of the hyoid bone project back the slender posterior cor- nua forming, by their divergence, an acute angle, embracing in its apex the upper part of the larynx : as they pass beneath the occiput they curve upwards, and are surmounted by slender pieces, frequently cartilaginous (ccralo- branchial), having a still greater curvature; so that the whole greater cornua, as thus consti- tuted, embrace the back of the skull, to the shape of which their curve is moulded, and on which they are made to glide backwards and forwards by the muscles that regulate the protrusion and retraction of the tongue. The principal of these muscles are two pair ; the first the analogue of the stylo hyoid, which retracts the tongue, and the second pai which Cuvier has called the analogue of the genio hyoid — the conical muscle of Vicq d'Azyr, — which draws the tongue forwards : the obliquity and length of these muscles, and the free unattached suspension of the hyoid apparatus, render the movements of the tongue very free, and their range exten- sive. The retrahent muscle, the stylo-hyoid (fig. 762. a.), arises from the posterior part of the lower jaw, and passes forward to be in- serted into the upper surface of the junction of the cornua and body of the hyoid : in some birds it is more voluminous than in the species figured, and has a more extended insertion ; it retracts the tongue. The pro- trusor ( b), which Cuvier has named, with apparently insufficient reason, the analogue of the genio hyoid, arises from the inner Fig. 762. Muscles of the Tongue of the Fieldfare (Turdus pilaris). a, retractor; b, protrusor; c, cerato-glossal. side of the lower mandible, passes downwards and a little backwards to the posterior cor- nua, which it embraces in its fibres from the point where it comes in contact with it to its extremity : the fibres become increasingly oblique as they pass back, and embrace the cornua in a muscular cone, which, by its con- traction, causes the cornua to slide forwards in it, and so protrude the tongue . in the wood- pecker, in which the hyoid cornua pass com- pletely round the head and into the upper mandible, this muscle is of proportionate length. Besides these, there is a mylo hyoid, a thin layer passing from the lower mandible to a median fibrous line, and a cerato-hyoid pass- ing from the posterior cornua to the uro-hyal, approximating these, and so directing the apex of the tongue to the opposite side. Fig. 762. c. is a small muscle, which I cannot find de- scribed ; it passes from the under surface of the basi- or glosso-hyal to the greater cornua, into which it is inserted within the sheath of the conical muscle. I would suggest the name of cerato glossal for it ; its action is to in- crease the curvature of the cornua, and there- by draw the tongue back. Fig. 763. represents some different forms of ,/ M if