695 SLEEP. Y V 4 may be determined to particular muscles, as Mr. Braid lias shown, either by a suggestion (so to speak) applied directly to themselves, or by the induction of such a mental state as shall be most fitted to call them into energetic operation. Thus the extensor muscles of a limb may be excited to contraction by gently rubbing or pressing the surface above them ; and this contraction may not merely raise the limb, but may keep it fixed in a cataleptiform manner for a much longer time than anv voluntary effort could accomplish. This con- traction may be caused to give way at any moment, by gently wafting a current of air over the same surface, which seems to call off the attention from the muscles to the skin. In order to throw an extraordinary degree of power into a group of muscles by a mental process, all that is required is to suggest the action, and to assure the somnambulist that it can be accomplished with the greatest facility if he will only determine to do it. Thus, we have seen one of Mr. Braid's hypnotised sub- jects, a man remarkable for the poverty of his muscular development, lift a twenty-eight pound weight upon his little finger alone, and even swing it round his head, — upon being assured that it was as light as a feather. We have every reason to believe that the personal character of this individual placed him above the suspicion of deceit ; and it is obvious that if he had practised such a feat (which very few, even of the strongest men, could accomplish without practice), the effect would have been visible in his muscular development. The same individual declared himself altogether unable to raise a handker- chief from the table, after many apparently strenuous efforts; having been assured that its weight was too great for him to move. Of course, there was not an equal proof of the absence of deception in this second case as in the first; but if the reality of the first be ad- milted, there need be no difficulty in the re- ception of the second, since both are manifes- tations of that mental condition which has been shown to be so characteristic of this state,—the possession of the mind by a dominant idea, which, when infused into it (as it were) by the principle of suggestion, directs the bodily movements, and is not cor- rected by the teachings of ordinary experience, or even by present sensations, if the mental assurance be strong enough to cause these to be disregarded. Of the causes of somnambulism, no very definite account can be given. In some persons this state recurs frequently, or even habitually; in others occasionally. In the case formerly detailed, its access might gener- ally be traced to some strong mental emotion. Those in whom it presents itself spontaneously are said to be natural somnambulists; but it may be induced, not merely in them, but in others who have manifested no predisposition to it, by certain artificial procedures. In many cases this may be effected through the mind alone, the simple expectation of the result being sufficient to bring it about. Thus the Abbe Faria was accustomed to induce somnambulism by placing his patient in an arm-chair, and then, after telling him to shut his eyes and collect himself, pronouncing in a strong voice and imperative tone the word " dormez," which generally produced on the individual an impression sufficiently strong to give a slight shock, and occasion warmth, transpiration, and sometimes somnambulism. — The following case is another illustration of the effect of this state of expectation, acting in concurrence with a fixed position. The subject of it was a lady who hail pre- viously shown great susceptibility to the " mesmeric " and " hypnotic " processes. " We now requested our patient to rest quietly at the fire-place, to think of just what she liked, and look where she pleased, except at ourselves, who retreated behind her chair, saying that a new mode was about to be tried, and that her turning round would disturb the process. We very composedly took up a volume which lay on the table, and amused ourselves with it for about five minutes ; when, on raising our eyes, we could see, by the excited features of other members of a little party that were assembled, that the young lady was once more magne- tised. We were informed by those who had attentively watched her during the progress of our little stratagem, that all had been, in every respect, just as before. The ladv herself, before she was undeceived, expressed a distinct consciousness of having felt our unseen passes streaming down the neck."* Perhaps the most effectual of all modes of inducing somnambulism is that discovered by Mr. Braid, and practised extensively by him under the designation of hypnotism.f The following is his description of his mode of in- ducing it, and of the phenomena attending its production. " Take any bright object (I gene- rally use my lancet-case) between the thumb and fore and middle fingers of the left hand ; hold it from about eight to fifteen inches from the eyes, at such position above the forehead as may be necessary to produce the greatest possible strain upon the eyes and eyelids, and enable the patient to maintain a steady fixed stare at the object. The patient must be made to understand that he is to keep the eyes steadily fixed on the object, and the mind riveted on the idea of that one object. It will be observed that, owing to the con- sensual adjustment of the eyes, the pupils will be at first contracted ; they will shortly begin to dilate, and after they have done so to a considerable extent, and have assumed a wavy motion, if the fore and middle fingers of the right hand, extended and a little separated, are carried from the object towards the eyes, most probably the eyelids will close invo- luntarily, with a vibratory motion. . . . After ten or fifteen seconds have elapsed, by gently elevating the arms and legs, it will be found * Brit, and For. Med. Rev.,, vol. xix. p. 477. f Neurypnology, or the Rationale of Nervous Sleep, considered in relation with Animal Magnetism, &c., by James Braid, M. R. C. S. E., &c.