SOLIPEDA. 721 nates by forming as many tendons as there are caudal vertebras without transverse pro- cesses. These tendons are received into sheaths resembling those upon the upper sur- face of the tail, and are inserted successively into the base of each caudal vertebra, be- ginning about the seventh. 3. The interspinales inferiores (sub-caudales, iutcr-coccygeus of Vicq d'Azyr). These are situated beneath the mesian line of the tail. They commence underneath the articulation between the first and second caudal vertebra?, and form an elongated fleshy belly, which, in some quadrupeds that have the tail largely developed, become first of all implanted into V-shaped hones derived from the fourth, fifth and sixth vertebras of the tail: they receive, moreover, from time to time additional fleshy slips, which go on continually diminishing in size, and give off tendons to be inserted suc- cessively into the inferior aspect of the base of each caudal vertebra. 4. The pubo-coccugeus (pubo-soiis-caudien). This is a thin muscle, derived from the whole extent of the upper margin of the pelvis, and having the appearance of a fleshy membrane, the fibres of which are gradually collected into one point to be inserted beneath the tail into tubercles situated upon the base of the fourth and fifth vertebras. The action of this muscle will produce an effect similar to that of the ileo-coccygeus. The muscles adapted to move the tail later- ally are arranged in two sets. 1. The iscl/io cocci/geus externus (ischio- caudien) arises from the posterior or internal surface of the ischium, a little below and be- hind the cotyloid cavity, from which origin it runs backwards to be inserted into the trans- verse processes of the anterior caudal vertebra?. This muscle is improperly called by Stubbs the levator ani, because in the horse a few fibres of it are connected with the termination of the rectum. 2. The intertransversales (intertransversal of Vicq d'Azyr) extend in the form of mus- eulo-aponeurotic layers over all the transverse processes that are developed in the caudal region, their tendons of insertion being most distinctly seen upon the upper surface of the tail. In animals that have the muscular appa- ratus of the tail completely developed the muscles are found to consist of eight distinct sets,—viz., two superior, two lateral, and two inferior. In the horse some of these are de- ficient, or exist only in a rudimentary con- dition. To see them in their full state of*de- velopment they must be examined in animals provided with long and mobile tails, such as the prehensile-tailed monkeys, the opossums, the lion, and, more especially, in the kangaroo and beaver. Muscles derived from the spinal column which serve wvmedialely for the movements of the cranium.—These have nearly the same origins as in the human subject, but are comparatively of much greater strength, owing to the inclined position of the head with respect to the ver- tebra! column. They may be divided into such as proceed, 1st, from the atlas ; 2nd, from the axis ; and, 3rd, from the posterior cervical vertebrae and ligamentum nucha?. To the first set belong — 1. The rectus capitis posticus minor, or rather medius, arising, as in the human subject, from the atlas ; from this origin it runs to be in- serted by a short and broad tendon into the occiput. The other muscles belonging to the atlas — namely, the rectus anlicus, the rectus lateralis, and the ob/iquus superior—offer the same position as in the man. The muscles derived from the axis — viz. the rectus posticus major and the ob/iquus in- ferior— are likewise similarly disposed in all quadrupeds. " The muscles arising from the other cervical vertebra? are The complejcus, which, commencing from the upper oblique process of the third ver- tebra of the neck, continues its origin from all the oblique processes of the neck below that point, as well as from the upper oblique process of the first vertebra of the back, also by a pretty strong tendon from the transverse processes of the second and third dorsal ver- tebra? ; from these origins it runs forwards to be inserted by a strong round tendon into the occiput close to its fellow of the opposite side : in this course it is connected by numer- ous tendinous processes with the ligamentum nucha?. That portion of the complexus usu- ally distinguished by the name of digastricus colli is in the horse undistinguishable as a distinct muscle. The trachelo-mastoideus, or complexus minor, arises from the oblique processes of the third, fourth, filth, sixth, and seventh cervical and first dorsal vertebra?, and from the transverse processes of the second and third vertebra? of the back ; it runs forwards external to the last-mentioned muscles to be inserted by a strong tendon into the mastoid apophysis of the temporal bone. The above muscles are overlapped by the Splenitis capitis ^cervico-mastoiden), which, arising by strong tendinous processes from the spinous processes of the two superior dorsal and two last cervical, and also exten- sively from the ligamentum nucha?, runs for- ward to be inserted into the transverse pro- cesses of the fifth, fourth, and third cervical vertebra, and into the transverse ridge of the occipital bone. It is remarked by Cuvier that in carnivorous quadrupeds the splenitis is not inserted into the transverse processes of the cervical vertebra? as it is in herbivorous animals and in the human subject, in which the latter portion is sometimes sufficiently distinct to obtain the name of splenius colli in contra- distinction to the splenius capitis. It is like- wise remarkable that in the camel, if the splenius exists at all, it is extremely thin and difficult to display by dissection. Muscles of the ribs and sternum. — The mus- cles derived from and inserted into the ribs and sternum are found in all quadrupeds to