VEIN. 1380 margin of the valve. The fibres are singularly regular, and present the most beautiful and equal undulations, as if each fibre were of exactly the same size and extent; and the un- dulations of all succeeding fibres are precisely similar, as far as the tenuity of the structure towards its attached margin is sufficient to allow of its examination. These fibres may be looked upon as a portion of the circular coat protruded into the cavity of the vein. Fig 865. Small Portions of the Valves from a Sheep. a, The valve showing a line of epithelial nuclei at the extreme margin a a'; a', detached nuclei; b, small portion of face of valve, exhibiting wavy fibres, epithelium and muscle. B, the same treated with acetic acid, a a, margin. On the face of this valve are seen two sets of nuclei; and fine threads of elastic fibre. {Mag- nified 200 diameters.) Running at right angles to these, and placed upon a different plane, are to be seen fibres or elongated corpuscles of a spindle shape, and of very variable distinctness. These cor- puscles are apparently muscular fibre-cells: they are very conspicuous in some specimens, and very indistinct in others; whilst in others they cannot be discovered at all. On treating a valve with acetic acid, two sets of nuclear corpuscles are to be discovered, running at right angles to each other. Those which are parallel with the wavy fibres of the fibrous lamina are mainly oval, interspersed with a few more elongated ; and those, cutting the former at right angles, and being parallel with the muscular fibre-cells, are club-shaped and spindle-shaped, having a strong resem- blance to the nuclei of muscular fibre-cells. The former, as it appears to me, are mainly persistent nuclei of areolar tissue, and belong to the wavy fibres, whilst the latter are evi- dently muscular nuclei. Small threads of yel- low fibre are occasionally seen. They are very fine, detached and scattered ; and fre- quently exhibit a spiral form. In examining these structures it is necessary that, when removed from the body, they should not be allowed to dry before the observations are completed ; for the characters both of the fibrous lamina and nuclei are impaired per- manently if they have once been dry. Sinuses. — There is yet another item in the valvular apparatus of venous canals,—the oc- currence of sinuses in the walls of the veins. These consist of small pouches or dilatations in the walls of the veins immediately in front of the valves. By these, the cylindrical form of the vessel is lost at that spot, two bulgings being apparent on it. These bulgings pro- duce a certain amount of attenuation at these points, the thinness being in direct proportion to the increased area produced. The sinuses vary in dimensions, and do not bear any exact proportion to the size of the valve. Lateral dilatations maybe seen in the walls of veins where no valves are present. (SeeJig.'863., b',g, e', h.) When the valves are in action, these distended sinuses present knots along the course of the vessel; an appear- ance first described and figured by Fabricius: he observes of them, " non dissimilem for- mam exterius pra? se ferentes, ac nodi in plan- tarum ramidis, et caule apparent."* The supply of valves in the venous system is only partial, and is irregular. Valves are only found (in the human subject) in those veins which are subjected to muscular pressure, and are, therefore, most abundant in the veins of the limbs : and it has been well laid down by Cruveilhier, " that their pre- sence and their number, their proximity and their distance from each other are directly influenced by the degree of opposition to the onward progress of the blood in any set of veins." f Of the veins of the head and neck, the ex- ternal jugular is the only one with valves : it possesses two, which however are not suffi- ciently compact to oppose injection. There are none in the cerebral sinuses or veins, and none in the internal jugular. The veins of the upper extremity are abundantly supplied with valves, which appear to be somewhat more numerous near the upper part of the arm. There are valves in the axillary vein, but none in the subclavian, vena innominata, or superior cava. They are abundant in the lower extremity, but most numerous at its lower part; in this respect differing from the superior extremity. The branches of the internal iliac vein are supplied with valves, while the external and internal iliacs them- selves, the common iliac, and the inferior cava, have none. The spermatic veins (male) have valves, while the ovarian (female) are desti- tute of them. In the azygos veins, Cruveil- hier denies the existence of valves, but they are occasionally found in an imperfect state of development. The spinal veins are destitute of valves, as are, also, those of the portal system, the he- patic veins, those of the heart, kidney, uterus * Loc. cit. For figures of these " nodi," see Fa- bricius, Opera omnia, tab. II. p. 157. ; also Harvey, De Motu Cordis et Sanguinis in Animalibus, Ana- tomica Exercitatio. Lugd. Bat. 1639, p. 187. f Cruveilhier. Anatomie Descriptive.