873 TEETH. les coquilles." And the editor (M. Duvernoy), in order to obviate any possibility of miscon- ception, has himself subjoined a note to that passage, as follows: " L'ivoire a ete aussi appette sicbstance osseuse,& cause deson analogie de composition chimique et de durete avec les os. Mais la nature inerte et inorganique de cette substance, mieux appreciee dans ces derniers temps, surtout par les travaux de M. Cuvier, ne permet plus de la designer, avec justesse, par cette seconde expression. Du moins est-il necessaire de premunir le lecteur contre l'idee fausse qu'il pourrait en tirer, qu'elle serait organisee, qu'elle se deVelop- perait a la maniere des os."—Tom. cit. p. 201, (1836). In the same spirit in which M. Du- vernoy sees (in 1848) that a true idea, instead of a false one, may be drawn from casual expres- sions and similies loosely applied in the old Le- 90ns of 1800 and 1805 ; others have sought to depreciate the value of the establishment of the truth by citing the doubts, or tentative approxi- mations made by Purkinje and Schwann to my theory, interpreting such approximations by the light of the established truth. So far from finding such a resting-place for doubt in Cuvier's early simile, cited by M. Duvernoy in 1848, or in the interrogatories of Schwann, nothing short of the investigation of the whole of this vast subject, zootomically, develop- mentally, and microscopically, as narrated in my " Odontography," sufficed to settle my own doubts ; and nothing short of the evidence and illustrations given in that work appeared to me adequate to convert anatomists from the excretion-hypothesis to the intussuscep- tion theory. That the dentine is the ossified pulp is an older notion than that it is an inorganic secretion from such pulp. But an hypo- thesis, to be of any value in science, must be proved. Almost every true theory has been indicated, with various degrees of approxi- mation, before its final establishment : but he has ever been held, in exact philosophy, to be the author of a theory, by whom it has been first rightly enunciated and satisfactorily established. When time has dissipated the mists of individual or national rivalries and jealousies, the name of the true discoverer is clearly seen by the inextinguishable light of true and impartial history : and to that period I look forward with calm and confident hope. I proceed now to briefly point out the leading characteristics of the teeth in the dif- ferent classes of the vertebrate animals. Dental System of Fishes, The teeth of fishes, whether we study them in regard to their number, form, substance, structure, situation, or mode of attachment, offer a greater and more striking series of varieties than do those of any other class of animals. As to number, they range from zero to countless quantities. The Lancelet, the Am- mocete, the Sturgeon, the Paddle-fish, and the whole order of Lophobranchn, arc eden- tulous. The Myxinoids have a single pointed tooth on the roof of the mouth {fig. 559., a), and two serrated dental plates (b) on the Fig. 559. 3Iyxine. (Mi'dler.) tongue. The Tench (fig. 514. Vol. III. p. 979. art. Pisces) * has a single grinding tooth on the occiput (<:•), opposed to two denti- gerous pharyngeal jaws below (dd). In the Lepidosiren a single maxillary dental plate (fig. 560., a) is opposed to a single mandibular Lepidosiren. one (b), and there are two small denticles on the nasal bone (c). In the extinct Sharks with crushing teeth, called Cemtodns and Cte- nodus, the jaws were armed with four teeth, two above and two below.f In the Chimarcc, two mandibular teeth are opposed to four maxillary teeth.J From this low point the number in different fishes is progressively multiplied until, in the Pike, the Siluroids (fig. 561.), and many other fishes, the mouth becomes crowded with countless teeth. With respect to form, I may first observe, that as organised beings withdraw themselves more and more, in their ascent in the scale of life, from the influence of the general polarising forces, so their parts progressively deviate from geometrical figures: it is only, therefore, in the lowest vertebrated class that we find teeth in the form of perfect cubes, and of prisms or plates with three sides (Myletes), four sides (Scarus), five or six sides, Mylio- bates (fig. 562.). The cone is the most com- mon form in fishes : such teeth may be slender, sharp-pointed, and so minute, numerous, and closely aggregated, as to resemble the plush or pile of velvet; these are called " villiform teeth" (denies vilitformes, dents en velours§) ; all the teeth of the Perch are of this kind : * And Odontography, pi. 57. fig. 5. t See Odontography, pi. 22, figs. 2. 6, 7. t lb., pi. 28, figs. 1, 2. 4. G. § The French terms are those used by Cuvier and Valenciennes in their great " Histoire des Pois- sons," 4to.