1332 VARIETIES OF MANKIND. if we make allowance for the projection of the jaws, and consider only its relation to the cranial portion of the skull, the position of the foramen magnum is found to be the same in the Negro as in the European; whilst in the adult forms of the highest apes, as shown by Professor Owen, it is removed very much further back, although in the young it is nearer the centre of the base. Again, it was stated by White, and has been generally believed, that the length of the fore arm in the Negro is so much greater than in the European, as to constitute a real approximation to the quadrumanous type. But an extended com- parison proves, that only a very slight differ- ence exists between the average length of this part in the two races ; and that this difference is by no means greater than that which may be observed on comparing the individuals of which any single race or nation is composed. On the other hand, a constant and decided difference exists, as already pointed out, be- tween all races of mankind and the highest Quadrumana. Again, it has been supposed that the Negro races are characterised by that peculiar curved form of the bones of the leg, ■which gives rise to what is popularly desig- nated as the "cucumber-shin;" also by the great elongation of the heel; and by the breadth and flatness of the foot. Such pecu- liarities are doubtless to be observed among individuals, and may be said to be general among the inferior Negro tribes ; but they are scarcely discoverable in the higher, among which a remarkable degree of symmetry in the conformation of these parts is often dis- cernible. And it should not be forgotten that the increased development of the heel, and the flattening of the foot, are characters which remove the Negro from the anthropoid apes, still more widely than the European, instead of being a character of approximation. It has been further asserted, that the inferior races generally are characterised by slender, elongated, and mis-shapen limbs, and by a great deficiency of physical power, as compared with Europeans. This is undoubtedly true of such as are habitually ill-fed, and live in a condition of squalid ignorance. But it is scarcely less true of those individuals among any of the higher races, who are subjected to the same conditions. Thus, although the extreme of this condition is witnessed among the Bosjesmans and Alfourous, yet approaches to it may be seen among the lowest grades of the population in the most civilised nations. The accompanying figure {fig. 827), which represents a group of Australians looking at a Fig. 827. mirror that had been presented to one of their tribe, who had been clothed by the sailors of the Astrolabe, might almost be supposed to be intended for a set of half-starved Irish. More- over, among the races which are considered to exhibit this character in its most decided form, individuals are often found, who, having grown up under more favourable conditions, exhibit the most complete symmetry, and the greatest vigour. Such, for example, are not wanting among the Australian races, which present" a remarkable variety in this particular. Among most savage races, the families of the chiefs "exhibit a higher grade of physical de- velopment than the ordinary population ; and this is quite sufficiently accounted for by the