1111 THYROID GLAND. 4 b 4 pseudobranchia was absent, I found, by the aid of the microscope, between the first and second basibranchials, a small mass, which consisted in great part of fat, but contained also some large vesicles closely resembling those of a real thyroid. Their diameter varied from -j-i^ to Jg. inch. They had an ho- mogeneous envelope lined by an epithelium, consisting of small non-nucleated pellucid cor- puscles, and surrounding a cavity filled by a transparent somewhat refracting fluid. In & Pleuronectid I found the pseudobranchia quite free, uncovered by mucous membrane, and projecting a series of small distinct leaf- lets into the branchial cavity. It differs essen- tially from that of the cod or whiting, and showed no tendency to assume a solid glan- dular form, but was manifestly a real though minute gill. In a Carp I found the pseudobranchia with some difficulty. It was situated very deeply between the anterior part of the upper ex- tremity of the first branchial arch, and the posterior border of the pterygoid muscle. Its structure was entirely that of a gill, consisting of parallel folds of a membrane, arranged transversely to a median axis, and overlaying a vascular plexus. These folds were covered with a kind of scaly epithelium, which was often detached in large pieces, and mingled with some circular cells, closely resembling mucous globules. I could find no trace of the sublingual nor of other adjacent gland. From the few facts now detailed I think it may be concluded, (1) That there is no evi- dence from their structural characters to prove that the pseudobranchia? are the representa- tive of the thyroid. (2) That in some in- stances organs which seem to be of a totally different kind are found, which resemble very closely the structure of the thyroid when it unquestionably exists. Mr. Simon lays stress upon the circumstance, that the pseudobranchia? and the sublingual gland re- ceive their vascular supply from the same source, viz. the 1st branchial vein ; this, how- ever, is not constantly the case, the pseudo- branchia? in osseous fishes, according to Pro- fessor Owen, serving only as diverticula to the ophthalmic, and not to the cerebral circulation; so that on this ground they cannot be sup- posed to have similar functions. For a philo- sophical discussion, however, of the analogy and homology of the pseudobranchia to the thyroid, I would refer to Professor Owen's Lectures, vol. ii. p. 270. note. Morphology. — The preceding details are abundantly sufficient to prove the glandular nature of the thyroid. This truth, which elder anatomists saw clearly, though rather afar off, we, by more intimate and minute scrutiny, are enabled to confirm and establish in every par- ticular. Let us take in order the several parts of the secretory apparatus of the thyroid as we have described them, and see whether they do not exactly correspond to homologous parts in any undoubted gland. The recep- tacular cavities, enclosed by envelopes of homogeneous membrane, manifestly represent the tubes of the kidney or testis, or the ter- minal vesicles of the salivary gland. The limitary tissue is identical in appearance in each ; but disposed in the one so as to form shut sacs; in the others to ensure a pervious canal or outlet, for the secretion. In the true glands the limitary tissue or basement membrane supports, on its interior, a layer of epithelium, essentially consisting of nuclei and granular matter. The same tissue in the thyroid is lined internally by a similar layer, which differs only in the smaller quantity of granular matter interposed among the nuclei, and in both cases the formation of perfect cells (i. e. with envelopes) is uncom- mon. The exterior of the limitary tissue is ill contact, in all the true glands, with a capillary plexus, from which the materials for the nutrition and growth of the epithelium are furnished. The same disposition exists in the thyroid. A certain amount of fibrous tissue, or some modification of it, penetrates more or less extensively among the elementary parts of the true glands, and serves to pack ansl unite their component parts together ; this also we have had occasion to describe in the thyroid. With respect to a supply of lym- phatic vessels and nerves, it is sufficient to state, that as far as ordinary dissection can go, the thyroid is similarly circumstanced with the other glands ; and there is no reason to doubt that the actual arrangement of these parts in all is the same. The parallel, thus exactly sustained in every particular, warrants us in regarding the thyroid as the Trapacay/xa of the class of ductless glands, and it may be not without advantage, if we take occasion to note, in the other organs belonging to the same class, how gradually the strongly marked characters are laid aside, till the glandiform organ passes into a modification of vascular structure. In the supra-renal capsules the limitary membrane, though described by an eminent anatomist as usually forming tubes of various length, enclosing celloid epithelial particles, is, according to my observation (which is however but limited,), very faint, or entirely absent. I have never been able to discover it in the human adult or foetal sub- ject ; and in the sheep the cortical structure has seemed to consist simply of rows of celloid nucleated particles, without any enclosing membrane. Conceding, however, that in these organs the limitary tissue does exist, there can be no doubt that it is much more feebly de- veloped than in the thyroid, while, as a set off, the epithelial particles are more perfectly formed. In the case of the thymus the limitary tissue is well marked, and resembles very much, in its arrangement, that of the con- glomerate salivary gland ; but the epithelium is remarkably modified. The nuclei exist, but almost alone. No granular matter of any pecu- liar properties is formed around them, prepa- rative to, and evidencing the existence of, secretory action. In the spleen both these alterations coincide. The epithelium is reduced to mere nuclei aggregated in masses round prodigiously developed venous radicles, and