VENOUS SYSTEM. J4I0 1. The anterior superficial spinal (or rachi- dian) veins, include, according to this au- thority, the vena azi/gos major, the vena azi/gos minor, the trunk of the right and left superior intercostal veins, the lumbar and ilin-lumbar veins, and the lateral and middle sacral veins. 2. The posterior superficial spinal veins, "form an exceedingly complicated network, the meshes of which surround the spinous processes and lamina;, and the transverse and articular processes of all the vertebra;." B. The deep or intraspinal veins comprise the following : — 1. The veins of the bodies of the vertebra; ; 2. The great anterior longitudinal veins or sinuses (Willis) ; 3. The posterior spinal veins and plexuses; all these are external to the " theca verte- bralis :" and 4. The veins of the spinal cord itself; in- ternal to the theca vertebralis. Superficial spinal veins. — The anterior super- ficial spinal veins have been already described as constituting a part of the azygos system. The posterior superficial spinal veins (the dorsi-spinal veins of Dupuytren and Breschet) are derived from the muscles which fill the vertebral grooves, and thus cover the lamina; and the spinous and transverse processes with a series of anastomosing vessels. In the neck they form a complicated plexus, from which proceed two large veins (posterior jugular, Cruveilhier), which communicate freely with the vertebral veins, and join the venae in- nominata;. From the numerous venous circles and plexuses formed by the "dorsi-spinal " veins, communicating branches are given off) which perforate the ligamenta subHava, or pass through the intervertebral foramina, and unite freely with the deep spinal veins. Deep spinal veins. — 1. Veins of the bodies of the vertebra: (veines basi-vertebiales, Bres- chet), [vide Fig.'SG). Vol. III. p. C30.], are contained in bony canals in the bodies of all the vertebra;, and are analogous to the diploic veins of the cranium. The basi-vertebral veins originate in the canallated tissue of the bone, and form larger trunks, which converge towards the posterior surfaces of the bodies of the vertebras, where the orifices of the bony canals in which they are contained are very apparent; on emerging from the vertebra; these veins form a plexus (transverse plexus) interposed between the bones and the pos- terior common ligament of the spine, and from which veins pass laterally to terminate in the anterior longitudinal sinuses. Some of the smaller venous canals pass forwards to cpen on the anterior surface of the vertebral column, where they anastomose with the su- perficial veins. 2. The anterior longitudinal sinuses, Willis : (grandes veines rachidiennes longiludinales an- terieures, Breschet), [vide Fig. 360. p. 630.] —These extend the entire length of the ver- tebral column, under the form of two longi- tudinal veins situated within the spinal canal, along the external margins of the posterior common ligament, and consequently between the bodies of the vertebrae and the dura mater, (hence sometimes termed meningo- rachidian veins). Opposite every vertebra these longitudinal vessels are connected to each other by the transverse plexus of the basi-vertebral veins, whilst externally they communicate, by means of branches which pass through the series of intervertebral fora- mina, with the numerous veins which ramify on the exterior of the spinal column, viz., the vertebral, azygos, intercostal, lumbar, sacral, &c. These longitudinal venous channels are neither parallel to each other, nor are they of uniform dimensions; opposite the bodies of the vertebrae they are most closely approxi- mated, whilst corresponding to the interver- tebral foramina they are widely separated, as if drawn outwards by the branches which are here connected with them. Each longitudinal sinus, or " venus plexus," (for occasionally two or more veins enter into the formation of these channels on each side,) might therefore be described as formed of " a series of plexi- form arches, which embrace the pedicles of each vertebra, have their concavity directed outwards and their convexity inwards, ami the extremities of which anastomose together opposite the intervertebral foramina, wliere they communicate with the branches on the outside of the spine."* According to Bres- chet, interruptions occasionally occur in dif- ferent parts of these longitudinal channels, a circumstance which still further authorises this description, in which each venous arch is regarded as a separate trunk, communicating with its fellows of the opposite side, and also with similar branches above and below. 3. The posterior deep spinal veins (veines longitudinales rachidiennes posterieures, Bres- chet) are likewise situated in the interior of the spinal canal, between the posterior sur- face of the dura mater and the front of the laminae. They there form a close interlace- ment of vessels (posterior intraspinal plexuses) which is most remarkably developed in the upper part of the canal. These veins and plexuses are joined by the posterior superficial spinal veins (dorsi-spinal veins), and they com- municate with the anterior longitudinal sinuses by numerous small lateral branches. 4. The'proper veins of the spinal cord (mc- dul/i spina/cs, Breschet) are small tortuous vessels, which form an irregular plexus upon both surfaces of the medulla spinalis between the pia mater and the arachnoid membrane ; they communicate through the foramen mag- num with the petrosal sinuses or cerebellar veins, and give off small branches which pass through the foramina with the spinal nerves to establish communications with the several e.r/ra-spinal veins. The veins of the spinal cord are apparently the " venae comites " of the proper spinal arteries. " The veins of the spine may be regarded, in reference to the general circulation, as es- tablishing an unbroken communication be- * Oruveilhier's Descriptive Anatomy, vol. ii. p. 808.