861 TASTE. undergo a kind of erection when sapid sub- stances are brought into contact with them. This inference is in complete harmony with the relative acuteness of the senses of taste and touch, in the portions of the surface on which the one or the other class of papillae is most abundant; thus the sides and back part of the tongue are unquestionably the parts where the gustative sensibility is the greatest, and it is there that the fungiform, circumvallate, and simple papillae are most thickly set; whilst the apex and central part of the dorsum, over which the tactile sensi- bility is predominant, is that on which we meet with the largest number of filiform papillae. Whether there be any difference among the simple isolated papillae, and among those which are aggregated into the com- posite bodies that are termed fungiform and circumvallate, we are scarcely in a con- dition even to form a guess, until it shall have been determined whether the gustative and tactile nerve-fibres are identical or diverse in their endowments. If the former, it will be reasonable to suppose that every papilla through which a gustative impression can be made in virtue of the penetration of sapid matter into its tissue, may also be subservient to the reception of tactile impressions from mechanical stimulation. On the other hand, if it should be proved that the gustative sense depends on a special set of fibres, we should still have to inquire whether the same papilla may not contain fibres of both classes, so as to minister to both functions ; or whether some of the papillae are purely gustative, whilst others are purely tactile. At present there is no adequate reason to suppose that there is any essential difference of function among the papillae covered with a soft thin epithelium, whether these be solitary or aggregate. An attempt was made by Horn * to establish some such diversity ; but the results of his experiments would rather lead to the supposition that there is a dif- ference in the gustative sensations excited by the same substance, according as it is applied to different regions of the tongue, than to different papillae. Thus he found that more than three-fourths of the substances which he applied to the circumvallate papillae excited a bitter taste, or one in which a bitter was associated with some other flavour, especi- ally an alkaline or saline ; whilst the majority of the substances applied to the filiform papillae tasted acid, or acid with a mixture of bitter and sweet. But since, as we have seen, mere mechanical stimulation produces different gustative sensations according to the part of the tongue to which it is applied, it is probable that the difference in Horn's results is not to be set down to the account of the papilla5, but rather to that of the nerves by which they are respectively supplied. Exercise of the Sense. — The simple appli- cation of a sapid substance to the gustative surface is usually sufficient to excite the sen- * Ueber den Geschmacksinn des Menschen. Hei- delberg, 1825. sation ; and if this application be restricted to one particular spot, we are able to recog- nise its place more or less distinctly. In this respect, then, the gustative impression resem- bles the tactile ; for whilst we cannot, by our own consciousness, distinguish the parts of the retina or of the auditory apparatus on which visual or auditory impressions are made, we can make this distinction in regard to the surface which is supplied by the nerves of general sense. This determination is most precise when the impression is made on the parts of the tongue of which the gus- tative sensibility is most acute ; namely, the apex, sides, and posterior part of the dorsum; being probably aided, however, near the tip, by the acuteness of its tactile sensibility. The impressibility of the middle portion of the dorsum is greatly inferior; but still, when the gustative sensation has been excited there, it is referred to the spot on which the sapid substance was laid. The contact of sapid substances much more readily excites a gustative sensation, when it is made to press upon the papillae, or to move over them. Thus there are some substances whose taste is not perceived when they are simply applied to the central part of the dorsum of the tongue, but of whose presence we are at once rendered cognizant by pressing the tongue against the roof of the mouth. The full flavour of a sapid substance, again, is more readily perceived when it is rubbed on any part of the tongue, than when it is simply brought in contact with it or pressed against it. Even when liquids are taken into the mouth, their taste is most completely discri- minated by causing them to move over the gustative surface: thus the "wine-taster" takes a small quantity of the liquor into his mouth, carries it rapidly over every part of its lining membrane, and then ejects'it. It is not improbable that this exaltation of the usual effects is simply due to mechanica causes ; the sapid particles being brought by the pressure or movement into more rapid and complete operation on the nerve-fibres, than they would be if simply placed in con- tact with the papillae. As in the case of the other senses, so do we find with regard to that of taste, that continual attention to its indications greatly increases its acuteness. Thus the "tasters" of wine, tea, &c, acquire a power of discrimi- nation which is truly wonderful to those who have not exercised themselves in the same manner. Thus we have been informed that the " taster " to one of the extensive cellars of sherry wines at Cadiz or Seville has not the least difficulty in distinguishing the butt from which a given sample may have been drawn, although the number of different va- rieties of the same kind of wine under his keeping may not be less than five hundred. So we are informed by Dr. Kitchener that many London epicures are capable of saying in what precise reach of the Thames'the salmon on the table has been caught; and the Parisian gourmet is said to be able to distin-