TONGUE. 1157 4 u 3 inch or an inch in front of the circumvallate papilla?, and on one side of the mesial line. Sometimes they form over the whole surface of the tongue. Iam acquainted with a gen- tleman who, at the time he was suffering from syphilitic psoriasis, got an attack of dyspepsia ; in less than thirty-six hours the whole of his tongue was one mass of these tubercles, and not a papilla was to be seen; in a few days (under the influence of iodide of potassium) every papilla had reappeared, and the tongue was in every way natural. This influence of disordered stomach being the immediate and exciting cause of the manifestation of the syphilitic poison on the tongue, I have fre- quently noticed ; a person who has a taint of lues venerea can scarcely sustain the least dis- order of the stomach or bowels without its showing itself upon the tongue. These tu- bercles of the tongue, when left to themselves, are very apt to become fissured and form rhagades; the space between two of them is liable to be the seat of an ulcerated fissure. Deep circular ulcers sometimes form on these tubercles. Phagedenic syphilitic ulcers are seen occa- sionally on the tongues of feeble debilitated people. All these forms occur as the result of the constitutional taint of lues venerea, at various periods after the primary symptoms. I have known the glossy tubercle and rhagades occur fifteen years after the primary sore. Cancer of the tongue. — The tongue is liable to be affected with scirrhus, having all the properties of genuine cancer. Mr. Travers has given a very graphic description of cancer of the tongue, which I shall take the liberty of quoting in extenso. — " This is not a smooth and firm rounded tubercle, such as is often met with in this organ, but an irregular rugged knob in its first stage, generally situated in the anterior third, and midway between the raphe and one edge. It sometimes, but seldom, extends across the middle line, although it often extends alongside of it. The hardness is unyielding, inelastic, and the mucous surface puckered and rigid. It also gives to the finger and thumb of the surgeon the sensation of solidity, or of its penetrating the entire mus- cular substance, being perceived equally on either surface. Sharp shoots of pain are felt through the side of the affected organ, towards the angle of the jaw and ear. The disease tends to run backwards towards the base or posterior edge. It sometimes acquires great bulk before ulceration takes place, so as to project the tongue from the mouth. In this state a female patient of mine was seen some time ago in St. Thomas's Hospital, in whom the permanent projection of the diseased organ, beyond the widely distended lips, was from three to four inches. The ulceration often extends from the edge of the tongue to the membrane of the mouth anil gums, when the elevated and distended membrane at length gives way, and ulceration is rapid. The sur- face of the ulcer is very uneven ; clean and bright granulations appearing in parts, and in others deep and sloughy hollows. The dart- ing pain is very acute, but only occasional. There is a dull aching alwajs present, and as constant a spitting as in deep salivation. It happens to strong and hitherto healthy per- sons, for the most part males from the age of forty onwards. There is generally an evening paroxysm of pain, and the nights are much disturbed by the secretion accumulating in the throat, which excites cough. Often the patient is roused by a painful compression of the tongue falling between the jaws. Speech is much affected and painful./ : " Towards the fatal tenniriatixrtf"oT the dis- ease, occasional profuse haemorrhages take place at shortening intervals, and alarm and weaken the patient, who ultimately dies tabic! and exhausted, generally with symptoms of more extensive disease of the mucous mem- brane in other parts. " The period at which the sublingual and contiguous lymphatic glands become affected, and the extent of their change, are very vari- able. I have known them form the base of the tumor, the cauliflower fungus occupying half the tongue, i. e. two or three inches long and one broad ; after death the jaw was found covered with fungus.'- (Mcclico-Chiruigical Transactions, vol. xv. part i. p. 245.) The scirrhus is not infrequently at the very margin of the tongue. Louis mentions a case where there was a little circumscribed tubercle of scirrhus, about the size of a filbert, at the edge of the tongue : it was ulcerated. It occasionally shows itself early in life : Arnott mentions a case where it was present in a girl of fifteen. In a subject who died of lingual cancer, dissected by myself, I found that the whole of the right side of the tongue, right tonsil, the upper part of the pharynx on the right side, and the mucous membrane, extending from the tongue to the epiglottis on the same side, were removed by ulceration, and the inner surface of the lower maxilla laid bare. The other half of the tongue was healthy, and only the ulcerated edge was scirrhous. The lymphatics were enlarged, and of a greenish-yellow colour : they con- ained pus. Tumours of the tongue. — A variety of tu- mours have been met with in the tongue. Fatty tumours have been found by Mr. Lis- ton on the under surface of the tongue. Mr. Hale Thomson exhibited to the Westminster Medical Society, in 1839, a fatty tumour which he removed from the side of the tongue. It consisted of fat contained in a cyst. Encysted tumours. — Many of the so-called instances of ranula* have been abundant Im- proved by Dupuytren, Breschet, and Malgaine to be simply serous cysts, and not obstructed salivary ducts. They consist of dense mem- branous cysts, containing a thick albuminous * The consideration of ranula belongs to the mor- bid anatomy of the salivary glands, and not of the tongue.