684 SLEEP. vigour, may generally be traced to some sen- sory impression of a trivial nature, such as the striking of a clock, which would have pro- duced no effect at a previous time. Some persons, however, always sleep so heavily, that they require a strong impression to arouse them, even when they have had an ample allowance of repose. It is through the hearing and the touch that the awakening im- pressions are ordinarily conveyed ; but either of the other senses may serve as their channel. Thus, although the closure of the eyelids destroys the acuteness of the perception of light, the eyelids are sufficiently transparent to allow of an impression being made by a light of moderate intensity ; so that those who sleep in a room whose window has an eastern aspect, and is not furnished with sufficient means of excluding the sun's rays, are liable to be aroused by their ingress some time before the natural amount of repose has been taken. So, again, the sleeper may be awakened by unusual odours; thus the inmates of a burning house are sometimes first aroused by the smell of fire. The introduction of sub- stances possessing a strong taste into the mouth, will also usually put an end to the state of slumber ; but when the slumber is very profound, such substances may be re- ceived, and even swallowed, without the sleeper being thereby awakened. The variety of modes in which the oper- ation of sensory impressions on the sleeper is modified by the previous habitual state of mind, is one of the most remarkable points of the whole subject. The general rule is, that habitual impressions of any kind have much less effect in arousing the slumberer, than those of a new or unaccustomed character. An amusing instance of this kind has been related to the author, which, even if not literally true, serves extremely well as an illustration of what is unquestionably the or- dinary fact. A gentleman who had taken his passage on board a ship of war, was aroused on the first morning by the report of the morning gun, which chanced to be fired just above his berth ; the shock was so violent, as to cause him to jump out of bed. On the second morning he was again awoke, but this time he merely started and sat up in bed; on the third morning the report had simply the effect of causing him to open his eyes for a moment, and turn in his bed: on the fourth morning it ceased to affect him at all, and his slumbers continued to be undisturbed by the report as long as he remained on board. It often happens that sleep is terminated by the cessation of an accustomed sound, especially if this be one whose monotony or continuous repetition had been the original inducement to repose. Thus, a person who has been read or preached to sleep, will awake, if his slum- ber be not very profound, on the cessation of the voice ; and a naval officer, sleeping be- neath the measured tread of the watch on deck, will awake if that tread be suspended. In this latter case, the influence of the simple cessation of the impression will be augmented by the circumstance next to be alluded to, which has received too little attention from writers on this subject, but which is of pe- culiar interest both in a physiological and psychological point of view, and is practi- cally familiar to almost every one. This is, that the influence of sensory impressions is greatly modified by our habitual state of mind in regard to them. Thus, if we are accustomed to attend to these impressions, and our perception of them is thus increased in acuteness, we are much more easily aroused by them than by others which are in them- selves much stronger, but of which we have been accustomed to entertain an utter dis- regard. Thus, most sleepers are aroused by the sound of their own names uttered in a low tone, when it requires a much louder sound of a different description to produce any manifestation of consciousness. The same thing is seen in comatose states ; a patient being often capable of being momentarily aroused by shouting his name into his ear, when no other sound produces the least effect. The following circumstance, commu- nicated to the author by a naval officer of high rank, is a most apposite illustration of this principle. When a young man, he was serving as signal-lieutenant under Lord Hood, at the time when the French fleet was con- fined in Toulon harbour; and being desirous of obtaining the favourable notice of his com- mander, he devoted himself to his duty — that of watching for signals made by the look- out frigates — with the greatest energy and perseverance, often remaining on deck nine- teen hours out of the twenty-four, with his attention constantly directed towards this one object. During the few hours which he spent in repose, his sleep was so profound, that no noise of an ordinary kind, however loud, would awake him ; and it used to be a favourite amusenient with his comrades, to try various experiments devised to test the soundness of his sleep. But if the word " signal" was even whispered in his ear, he was instantly aroused, and fit for immediate duty. It is not requisite, however, that the sound should be one habitually attended to during the hours of watchfulness ; for it is sufficient if it be one on which the attention has been fixed as that at which the slumberer is to arouse himself. Thus the medical man, even in his first profound sleep after a fatiguing day's work, is aroused by the first stroke of the clapper of his night-bell; and to those who are accustomed to rise every morning at the sound of an alarum-clock, the fre- quency and regularity of the occurrence do not diminish, but rather increase, the readi- ness with which it produces its effect, pro- vided that the warning be promptly obeyed. On this usually depends the efficiency of the awakening sound ; if it be disregarded as a thing to which there is no occasion to give heed, it very soon ceases to produce any effect, the entire peal not being sufficient to awake the sleeper; whilst, on the other