912 TEETH. and consists almost entirely of a blade divided by a vertical fissure into two sub-equal com- pressed pointed lobes: the points are less produced than in the Felines, but the lower sectorial of the hyaena is better distinguished by the small posterior basal talon, from which a ridge is continued along the inner side of the base, and is slightly thickened at the fore-part of the crown. According to the relative po- sition of the crowns of the premolars the third below ought to be the last, being analogous to the fourth in the Viverridce, and the sec- torial should be first true molar : we shall find this view confirmed by the test of the mode of succession of the permanent teeth. But the mode of implantation of the premolar and molar teeth may first be noticed. The first upper premolar has but one fang; the second and third have each two ; the sectorial tooth has three, the two anterior ones on the same tranverse line, the inner one supporting the tubercle. The lower premolars and sectorial have each two fangs, there being none truly answering to the first above : the anterior root of the lower {p. 1) sectorial tooth is very strongly developed in the great extinct Cave-Hyaena. 3 3 The deciduous teeth consist of:—i. TjZ^s' I I 3 3 c. ——m. g g, = 28. The figure of the skull of the young Hycena crocuta in the posthumous edition of the " Ossemens Fos- siles," 8vo. 1836, pi. 190, fig. 3, shows that stage when the correspondence with the formula of the genus Felis is completed by the appearance, in the upper jaw, of a small pre- molar in the interspace between the canine and first molar of the deciduous series : but this appearance is due to the apex of the first permanent premolar which cuts the gum before any of the normal deciduous teeth are shed : whether it is preceded, as in the dog, by a deciduous germ-tooth in the foetus, I know not. The first normal deciduous molar is two-fanged, and has a more compressed and consequently more carnivorous crown than that of the second permanent premolar by which it is succeeded. The second deci- duous molar is the sectorial tooth : the inner tubercle is continued from the base of the middle lobe, and thus resembles the permanent sectorial of the Glutton {Gulo) and many other Mustelida; the deciduous tubercular molar is relatively larger than in the adult Hyana, and offers another feature of resem- blance to the permanent dentition of the Glutton. It is also worthy of remark that the exterior incisor of the upper jaw is not only absolutely, but relatively smaller in the immature than in the adult dentition of the hyaena, and again illustrates the resemblance to the more common type of dentition in the Carnivora. The first and second deciduous molars be- low have more compressed conical crowns than their successors : the third deciduous molar is the sectorial tooth, and, again, as in Gulo, has a better developed hinder tu- bercle than the permanent sectorial; it is not displaced by this tooth, but, as in other Car- nivora, by a premolar of more simple cha- racter. The permanent sectorial is deve- loped posteriorly, and rises, like other true molars, without displacing a deciduous pre- decessor. The permanent dentition of the Hycena, as of other genera or families of the Carnivora, assumes those characteristics which adapt it for the peculiar food and habits of the adult, and mark the deviation from the common type, which alwa} s accompanies the progress to maturity. The most characteristic modifi- cation of this dentition is the great size and strength of the molars as compared with the canines, and more especially the thick and strong conical crowns of the second and third premolars in both jaws, the base of the cone being belted by a strong ridge which defends the subjacent gum.* This form of tooth is especially adapted for gnawing and breaking bones, and the whole cranium has its shape modified by the enormous development of the muscles which work the jaws, and teeth in this operation.f Adapted to obtain its food from the coarser parts of animals which are left by the nobler beasts of prey, the hyaena chiefly seeks the dead carcass, and bears the same relation to the lion which the vulture does to the eagle. In consequence of the quantity of bones which enter into its food, the excrements consist of solid balls of a yellowish white colour, and of a compact earthy fracture. Such specimens of the sub- stance, known in the old Materia Medica by the name of " album graecum," were dis- covered by Dr. Buckland in the celebrated ossiferous cavern at Kirkdale. They were recognised at first sight by the keeper of a menagerie, to whom they were shown, as resembling both in form and appearance the foeces of the spotted Hyaena; and, being analysed by Dr. Wollaston, were found to be composed of the ingredients that might be expected in fecal matter derived from bones, viz. phosphate of lime, carbonate of lime, and a very small proportion of the triple phosphate of ammonia and magnesia. This discovery of the coprolites of the hyaena formed, perhaps, the strongest of the links in that chain of evidence by which Dr. Buckland proved that the cave at Kirkdale, in York- shire, had been, during a long succession of years, inhabited as a den by hyaenas, and that they dragged into its recesses the other animal bodies, whose remains, splintered and bearing marks of the teeth of the hyaena, were found mixed indiscriminately with their own. * An eminent civil engineer, to whom I showed the jaw of a hyajna, observed that the strong conical tooth, with its basal ridge, was a perfect model of a hammer for breaking stones for roads. f " The strength of the hya?na's jaw is such that, in attacking a dog, he begins by biting off his leg at a single snap." Buckland," Keliquia: DiluvianaV' p. 23.