1181 TOUCH. illustrates the necessity for the transmission of the vibrations along a solid medium. "The valve of the door on which the percussion is made by knocking, is a detached frame of wood hung upon hinges, and the vibration is therefore comparatively isolated and not pro- pagated throughout the frame of the house, as is the case when, in shutting the door, the valve itself strikes the door-post, which is identified with the framework of the build- ing." In illustration of the acuteness of this sense in his own person, Dr. Kitto states that the lightest footfall upon the same floor is quite sufficient to attract his attention, or even to arouse him from sleep. " If any small article," he continues, " such as a thimble, a pencil, a penknife, or even a more minute object, falls from the table to the floor, I am often aware of it, even when other persons sitting at the same table have not been apprised of it by the ear. The greater the number of my points of contact with the floor, the stronger are the impres- sions I receive : hence they are more vivid and distinct when I sit than when I stand ; be- cause, in the former case, not only my own two legs, but the four legs of my chair, are concerned in conveying the percussion to my sensorium. And when the chair itself on which I am seated has been subject to the percussion, the sensation is such as baffles description. For instance, a few days since, when I was seated with the back of my chair facing a chiffbniere, the door of this re- ceptacle was opened by some one, and swung back so as to touch my chair. The touch could not but have been slight, but to me the concussion was dreadful, and almost made me scream with the surprise and pain, the sensa- tion being very similar to that which a heavy person feels on touching the ground, when he has jumped from a higher place than he ought. Even this concussion, to me so violent and distressing, had not been noticed by any one in the room but myself. * * * If these per- ceptions are so acute in carpeted rooms, it will be easily understood by how much more intense they become upon a naked wooden floor. The sensation then amounts to torture — as every movement or concussion, in any part of the room, then comes with an in- tensity of effect, far more than proportioned to the difference in the impression which would, under the same circumstances, be pro- duced upon the auditory sense." It is interesting to remark that, notwith- standing this acuteness of the sense in ques- tion, it does not seem to convey (in Dr. K.'s case at least) any information of the direction or distance of the percussions, except such as is afforded by their relative intensity. Thus he says ; — "I am unable to determine from the information of the sensation itself, whether it has occurred upon the floor above, or in that below me, or in the passage or room ad- joining that in which I may be at the time. I am not aware that the impression is more distinct from the floor above than from that below; but it certainly is more distinct in another room of the same floor, than from either the one above or below; whence I am much in the habit of referring to the next room the percussions which make the strongest impression on me. In this I am not seldom mistaken. * * * The information is equally defective, even in the very room I may happen to occupy. If a book or other object falls in any part of the room, the sen- sation is painfully distinct, the percussion being upon the very boards on which I stand ; but even in this case, 1 am at a loss for the quarter in which the circumstance has oc- curred, and generally look for it in the wrong direction, and have to scan the whole room with my eye before I can make it out." It is probable that the want of power to estimate direction arises from the circumstance that the communication of the percussions takes place, in this and similar cases, through the same channel (the floor) to the same parts of the solid mass of the body, through which the vibrations immediately spread in every direction. It can easily be conceived that if the percussions were transmitted through a liquid medium, its vibrations, being propagated in a more determinate direction, might affect one or another part of the surface in such a manner as to suggest the direction of their source ; and that in this mode aquatic animals endowed with a nervous apparatus at their surface, specially adapted to be impressed by such vibrations, might communicate with each other through great distances. This appears to be the case with regard to the Spermaceti Whale, and probably others of the Cetacea. It has been observed by the whale-fishers, that when a straggler from a " school" is attacked, even at a distance of several miles from it, a number of its fellows bear down to its assistance, in an almost incredibly short space of time. It can scarcely be doubted that this communication must be made through the medium of the vibrations of the water, excited by the struggles of the animal, or per- haps by some peculiar instinctive movements especially adapted for this purpose, and pro- pagated through the liquid medium to the large cutaneous surface of the distant whales. And this idea is confirmed by the fact, that the nerves which proceed to the surface of the body pass through the layers of blubber (which form the inner part of the true skin) with scarcely any division, and then spread out into a network of extreme minuteness as soon as they approach the exterior of the in- tegument. The expanse of such a network over a thick layer of elastic tissue, whose meshes are distended with oleaginous fluid, obviously affords a condition peculiarly fa- vourable to the reception of impressions ori- ginating in percussion. After the details which have been given in proof of the degree of exaltation of which the general tactile sensibility is capable in the human subject, we shall have less difficulty in understanding that even the vibrations of air,