1338 VARIETIES OF MANKIND. rieties of hair as they do of complexion ; its hue ranging through black and brown to red and even flaxen : and precisely the same is true of the Tahitians and Marquesans among the Oceanic race, as well as among many other nations. The texture and mode of growth of the hair, however, are characters on which it would appear, at first sight, that more re- liance may be placed. The pilous covering may be described as " woolly," " crisped" or "friz- zled," "flowing " or "wavy," and "straight." The African and Oceanic Negroes alone are characterised by " woolly" hair ; the Austra- lians, Abyssinians, and many African nations, usually have the hair more or less " crisped" or " frizzled;" among the lndo-Europeans, the " flowing" or " wavy" character prevails ; while a peculiar straightness most commonly presents itself among nations of Mongolian descent. It is obvious, however, that these several terms express little more than differ- ences in degree. For if " straight" hair has a slight tendency to curl, it becomes " wavy;" if this tendency be increased, it is commonly termed " curly ; " the " crisped " or " friz- zled" hair is little else than hair with a pecu- liarly stiff and close curl; and the " woolly " covering of the head of the Negro is by no means so different from the crisped hair of other dark races, as the designation given to it would imply, the chief difference consisting in its closeness of texture and its tendency to mat together. As Dr. Prichard has correctly stated, it is clearly shown by microscopic ob- servation that the hair of the Negro is not really " wool," and it presents no constant structural difference from the jet-black hair which is not uncommon among Europeans. It has lately been asserted, however, by Dr. P. A. Browne, of Philadelphia, that the following definite structural differences do exist: —" The hair of the white man presents an oval section ; that of the Choctaw and some other American Indians is cylindrical ; that of the Negro is eccentrically elliptical or flat. The hair of the white man, besides its cortex and intermediate fibres, has a central canal, which contains the colouring matter, when present. The wool of the Negro has no central canal, and the colouring matter is diffused, when present, either throughout the cortex, or this and the intermediate fibres. In hair the enveloping scales are comparatively few, smooth of surface, rounded at their points, and closely embrace the shaft; in wool they are numerous, rough, sharp-pointed, and project from the shaft. Hence the hair of the white man will not felt; the wool of the Negro will."* Now, upon this it may be remarked that neither of the characters speci- fied by Dr. Browne will stand the test of extensive observation. The form of the shaft, as shown in transverse section, varies greatly in the hairs of the same race, and even in those of the same individual ; for not only is it sometimes round, sometimes oval, and (though more rarely) eccentrically elliptic or * Transactions of the American Medical Associa- tion, vol. iii. p. 02. nearly flat ; hut it may be even l'enifoi'm, or channelled on one side, a variety of which Dr. Browne takes no notice, except as oc- curring in the Hottentot. The central canal of the hair, which is occupied by medullary cells, is an extremely variable character; being often undistinguishable in the hair of the white races. Moreover, the pigmentary matter is sometimes almost exclusively con- fined to the cells of the central canal ; some- times it is equally diffused through the whole fibrous substance forming the shaft of the hair: and sometimes we have even seen it in greatest abundance towards the periphery, the centre being pale. Hence the elliptical section, the absence of " central canal," and the diffusion of pigmentary matter through the hair, are not in the least degree peculiar to the Negro, and cannot be regarded as characteristic of his hair. So, again, the writer takes upon himself to assert that there is not a greater difference in the degree of serration on the surface (which is due to the imbricated arrangement of the scales forming the cortical layer) between the hair of the Negro and that of other races, than exists among the individuals of any one race ; and that the Negro's hair does not approximate more closely to wool in this respect, than the Negro's cranium does to that of the chim- panzee. The only constant peculiarity of the Negro's hair is the tendency to a close curl; and this seems connected with its form. As a general rule it may be stated that the roundest hairs curl least, and that those which show most flattening are the most disposed to curvature in their growth. But that there is something also in the nutrition of the hair which influences its mode of growth, appears from the following fact stated by Mr. Erasmus Wilson as the result of extensive observa- tions : — "I have collected several instances in which the hair, naturally possessing a strong curl, becomes lank and straight if its pos- sessor be out of health ; the straightness of the hair becoming as certain an index of a disordered state of the economy, as a yellow eye-ball or a white tongue."* Now if we attempt to apply the texture of the hair to the discrimination of races, we find that although it has a certain value as affording a character of general applicability, yet that this will not bear being carried too minutely into particulars. Thus, among the African nations, there are many whose affinity to the Negro race cannot be questioned, and which yet have merely " crisped" or " friz- zled" hair, instead of a woolly covering; and there are others which cannot be shown on any other grounds to have a different descent, among whom the hair is long and flowing. On the other hand, we not unfrequently meet with individuals among the Anglo- Saxon race, in whom the hair is not merely curly, but " frizzled," and almost " woolly " in its texture. Among the Oceanic races, again, there is every gradation of the same kind ; * On the Management of the Skin, 3d ed. p. 77.