964 •TERATOLOGY. surrounding an amorphous mass of cellular tissue, and only a single well-formed organ. I have given a fuller account of this case in my Tab. lxii. figs. 4, 5, 6. Therefore we may conclude that each part is formed sjionte sua, and that it is in its evolution quite indepen- dent of the rest of the body. b. A less degree of malformation is when the superior part of the body is formed without the inferior limbs. Fig.597. gives a represen- tation of this monstrosity, of which a succinct account is to be found in my Handbook, D. ii. Bl. 100, and Tab. lxiii. c. In a more perfect developement of the trunk one of the extremities may be wanting. We call this malformation monopodia; in it one of the inferior half-parts of the body has not been formed. It makes a transition to those monsters, in which the inferior ex- tremity of the body tapers gradually into a tail-like form, which has given to them the name of monstra Sireniformia. d. Sympodia or Siren-like form is the fourth species of defective formation of the trunk. The single inferior extremity is corn- Fig. 622. Uromelia. Fig. 623. Sympodia. posed of the elements of two, and arti- culates with a pelvis, which is not formed, as in monopodia, by one bone, but by a coalescence of two. In most of them the partially double, partially single inferior ex- tremity terminates in a caudal point ; on account of which the name of Sirencs has been adopted. To this imperfection are added closed anus, defect of external genital parts, and the existence of but one artery in the umbilical cord. The malformed inferior ex- tremity has not always the same form. There- fore we admit three varieties:—1. Without a foot, Sirenomelia of J. G. St. Hilaire; 2. With a single foot, more or less complete, Uromelia of J. G. St. Hilaire ; 3. With a double foot. Fig. 622. represents the second, and fig. 623. the thiid variety. By this survey of the four types of de- fective formation of the trunk is proved that they form a very natural series, in which we are gradually inducted, from the total want of a trunk to monsters in which inversion of the inferior extremities is the only deviation from the natural form. The same regularity is here to be observed as in every other class of monstrosities. It is therefore impos- sible to ascribe their origin to accidental ex- ternal causes. Meckel has opposed hi.s own