SYMMETRY. 845 fluid, but must look upon it merely as present in excess in the diseases above alluded to. ((?. Owen Roes.} SYMMETRY (aw—ptrpov). In its general acceptation this word means a just and har- monious proportionment of parts to one another and to their whole ; in anatomy, how- ever, it has a different and more restricted meaning. With its anatomical signification alone I have now to deal, and that may be defined as follows : — Symmetry is a word used to express an idea that would be more correctly represented by a verb than a noun, for it is the idea of not a thing but a fact — the fact, namely, that one half of an animal is usually an exact reversed copy of the other— the right side is a reversed copy, or repetition, of the left. To this there are numerous ex- ceptions, even in the human subject; of which hereafter. That unreversed serial copying or repetition which is observable, for instance, between the scapular and pelvic limbs, is enunciated by the analogous expression serial homology. The point on which a distinction may be made between symmetry and homology, is that of the reversing of the copy or repetition as characteristic of the latter. This characteristic seems to impress one with the notion that the two halves are parts of a whole, whereas an unreversed serial recurrence of similar parts inclines one to accord a kind of separate in- dividuality to each repetition. A clear dis- tinction between these two styles of repetition ought undoubtedly to be firmly impressed and maintained on the mind. I have, however, for want of a convenient inflection of the word under consideration, at the risk of some confusion, been long accustomed to use the expression lateral homology in reference to symmetrical repetition-—and in that sense I shall have to use it in this article. Whether the word symmetry should be applied to that antero-posterior repetition which is met with in caudal vertebrae of fishes, for instance, is not yet determined by usage, and it will be sufficient for me hereafter simply to make my remarks upon the apparent exist- ence of it. In so doing I shall use the ex- pression anteroposterior homology in a sense precisely parallel to that of lateral homology. Lateral Repetition.—That the right hand and foot, and the right side of the head and trunk, are the exact counterpart of the left is a fact so obvious, that merely to assert it seems an unnecessary truism. It should, however, by no means be regarded as a matter of course. It might have been otherwise. The human skeleton is, normally, perfectly symmetrical in all its details, and so are the skeletons of all vertebrate animals, with the exception of the Pleuronectidaa, or flat fishes, noticed hereafter. The archetype or abstract ideal figure of an osseous vertebral segment, as that of Prof. Owen, at vol. iii. p. 824., is a symmetrical form. But it is doubtful whether any single bone in the skeleton should be re- garded as primordially mesial and symmetrical — whether any ossific point is originally in the middle line. The ideal archetype of the above illustrious author contains three mesial azygos elements, viz. the haemal and neural spines and centrum; but it has always ap- peared to me that each of these elements should be represented in the ideal by a pair of pieces, because each of them is occasionally represented in nature by a pair of bones : Prof. Owen, for instance, regards the two parietal bones as the neural spine of a ver- tebra. Though there is no difficulty in con- ceiving the coalescence of any number of pieces into one, and though it is easy to con- ceive that this coalescence may have occurred before the commencement of ossification, so that two or more of the points destined to be- come the centres of the ossifying process may be brought so close together as, when manifest by the earthy deposit, to appear but as one, yet it is not possible to conceive that two pieces can be developed from one ossific point. The single azygos condition may proceed from the double, but the double cannot proceed from the single ; therefore the double condition must be re- garded as the primordial, and should hold place in the abstract type. There are occasionally met with certain monstrosities which seem to show in a remarkable manner that a vertebra is composed of two lateral halves that are primordially separate. Thus, in double-headed monsters, wherein there are two vertebral columns above, which coalesce and form one below, the half of each of the two columns which is adjacent to the other seems to be lost at the point of coalescence, and the single column below this point seems to be com- posed of the right half of the one and the left half of the other of the two columns. In the skeleton of the Boa Constrictor preserved in the Hunterian Museum, there are two ver- tebrae that are double on the right side and single on the left, bearing two ribs on the right side and only one on the left; or rather there are two specimens of right halves of vertebrae, existing independently, which are anchylosed, the one to the vertebra in advance of it, the other to the one behind it. This anchylosis alone justifies the expression "vertebrae double on the right side ;" but in neither instance is it so complete as by any means to mask the real nature of the independent half vertebra. Such facts as these, especially the existence of one half of a vertebra without the other, even seem, in contradiction to the impression stated above, to claim for each half of a vertebral segment the importance of a separate indi- viduality, such as is accorded to each ver- tebral segment itself. They seem to show that a vertebra is as much a compound of two lateral parts symmetrically repeating one an- other, as the human spinal column is a com- pound of thirty-three serial repetitions of ver- tebras. The fact of the lateral halves being reversed copies of one another, I am disposed to regard as proof of their being parts only of a whole, and as disentitling them to an indi- viduality like that which we are accustomed to assign to unreversed serial repetitions; it