SLEEP. 677 x x 3 SLEEP.—This term is employed to desig- nate that state of suspension of the sensory and motor functions, which appears to alternate, in all animals, with the active condition of those functions, and which may be made to give place to it by the agency of appropriate impressions upon the sensory nerves. Although this may seem a complex de- finition of a state which seems to be in itself so simple, yet it will not be found easy to alter its character without rendering it less stringent. We more especially desire to ex- clude from it the abnormal condition of covin, in all its forms ; whether resulting from the influence of pressure or effusion within the cranium, or consequent upon the poisoning of the blood by narcotic substances, or occurring as part of that inexplicable series of phenomena which are termed hysterical. The state of coma, where not so intense as to affect the movements of respiration and deglutition, is identical with profound sleep as regards its obvious manifestations; but there is this im- portant difference, that simple sleep may be made to give place to activity by the ap- plication of appropriate stimuli to the sen- sorial system ; whilst in complete coma, no impressions on the sensory nerves have any power of bringing back the consciousness. Between these two conditions, however, every gradation may be seen; as in the heavy sleep produced by an over-dose of a narcotic, in in- complete hysteric coma, or in the torpor resulting from slow effusion within the cra- nium. The necessity for sleep seems to arise from the fact, that the exercise of the animal functions is in itself destructive of the sub- stance of the organs which minister to them ; so that, if the waste or disintegration pro- duced by their activity be not duly repaired, they speedily become incapacitated for further use. This doctrine is now so generally ad- mitted, that it does not seem requisite to adduce proofs in its support. The substance of muscles is regenerated during the sus- pension of their action in simple repose ; and it is not essential that, for this purpose, a state of unconsciousness should intervene. As the substance of the nervous centres and trunks, more especially the former, under- goes a similar disintegration as a necessary consequence of its activity, this too requires a period of repose for its regeneration ; but the repose, or suspension of functional acti- vity, of the sensorial portion of the nervous system, necessarily involves unconsciousness ; and it appears to be on the nutritive regene- ration which takes place during true sleep, that its refreshing power depends. No such refreshment is experienced from the uncon- sciousness of coma, however prolonged ; and there are some forms of ordinary slumber in which it is more or less deficient. The or- ganic functions are not affected in any con- siderable degree by the suspension of the sen- sorial ; for we find that not only are the operations in which these functions essentia!/// consist uninterruptedly carried on, but that the muscles, nerves, and nervous centres also which are concerned in maintaining them, are enabled to sustain an unintermitted action. Thus the movements of the heart are not, in warm-blooded animals at least, normally suspended, from the first development of that organ until the close of life ; the respiratory motions, in like manner, are kept up uninter- ruptedly from birth to death ; and the pro- pulsion of food along the alimentary canal during sleep by the peristaltic contraction of its muscular coat, the sustained action of the sphincters, the peculiar position of the eyes, and the active state of the extensor muscles of the legs in animals which sleep standing, are additional evidences that the state of con- tinuous repose is not required for the reno- vation of the powers of certain parts of the nervous anil muscular apparatus. To use Dr. Marshall Hall's phraseology, " the true spinal system never sleeps ;" and, whatever we may think of the existence of his " true spinal " system of nerve-fibres, as distinct from those which minister to the functions of the ence- phalon, there can be no longer any doubt that the ganglionic portion of the spinal cord is a distinct centre of nervous action, which re- tains its power of actively responding to im- pressions made upon it, during the profoundest repose of the other centres ; whilst, from the complete suspension of its functions, even for a very brief period, death inevitably results. In following out our inquiry into the nature of sleep, and of certain conditions allied to it, we shall find it convenient to regard the encephalon as composed of four leading or primary divisions : 1. The medulla oblongata, which essentially consists of a prolongation of the spinal cord, including the centres of respiration and deglutition; and also having incorporated with it, without properly form- ing part of it, the ganglia of hearing and of taste; 2. The ganglia of sensation, including, with the olfactive, optic, auditory, and gus- tative centres, the corpora striata and thalami optici, which are probably, when taken to- gether, to be regarded as the ganglia of tac- tile sensation*: 3. The hemispheric ganglia (i^olly), or peripheral portion of the cerebral hemispheres: and 4. The cerebellum. The first of these divisions really belongs to the spinal cord, and, like it, is constantly active. — The second appears collectively to form the true sensorium, to which external impressions must be conveyed, in order that they may be felt (each class of sensations being received through the medium of its own ganglion), and from which proceeds the stimulus to those automatic movements which can only be excited by a sensation. Such are the truly instinctive actions.— The third division, of which scarcely a rudiment exists in the lowest fishes, although it constitutes by far the largest proportion of the encephalon in man, seems to be the instrument through which ideas are generated, by which they are retained and made the subjects of intellectual * See British and Foreign Medical Review, vol. xxii. p. 510.