880 TEETH. and anchylosed to, the processes of the sup- porting bone, this likewise enters into the formation of the masticatory surface when the tooth is worn down to a certain point. The proof of the efficacy of the complex masticatory apparatus above described is afforded by the contents of the alimentary canal of the Scari. Mr. Charles Darwin, the accomplished naturalist and geologist, who accompanied Captain Fitzroy, R. N., in the circumnavigatory voyage of the " Beagle," • dissected several Parrot-fishes soon after they were caught, and found the intestines laden with nearly pure chalk, such being the nature of their excrements ; whence he ranks these fishes among the geological agents to which is assigned the office of converting the skeletons of the Lithophytes into chalk. Development.—As might have been antici- pated from the discovery of the varied and pre- dominating vascular organisation in the teeth of fishes, and the passage from non-vascular dentine to vascular dentine in the same tooth, the true law of the development of dentine "by centripetal metamorphosis and calcifica- tion of the cells of the pulp," was first defi- nitely enunciated and illustrated from observ- ations made on the development of the teeth of fishes.* It is interesting to observe in this class the process arrested at each of the well-marked stages through which the development of a mammalian tooth passes. In all fishes the first step is the simple production of a soft vascular papilla from the free surface of the buccal membrane: in Sharks and Rays these papillae do not proceed to sink into the sub- stance of the gum, but are covered by caps of an opposite free fold of the buccal membrane ; these caps do not contract any organic con- nection with the papilliform matrix, but, as this is converted into dental tissue, the tooth is gradually withdrawn from the extraneous protecting cap, to take its place and assume the erect position on the margin of the jaw (Jig. 510, b, a, art. Pisces, Vol. III. p. 976.). Here, therefore, is represented the first and transitory " papillary " stage of dental develop- ment in Mammals ; and the simple crescentic cartilaginous maxillary plate, with the open groove behind containing the germinal papillae of the teeth, offers in the Shark a magnified representation of the earliest condition of the jaws and teeth in the human embryo. In many fishes, e. g. Lophius, Esox, the dental papillae become buried in the membrane from which they rise, and the surface to which their basis is attached becomes the bottom of a closed sac : but this sac does not become inclosed in the substance of the jaw ; so that teeth at different stages of growth are brought away with the thick and soft gum, when it is stripped from the jaw-bone. The final fix- ation of teeth, so formed, is effected by the * In my Hunterian Lectures, delivered at the Royal College of Surgeons, May, 1839. See also, Compte Rendu de l'Academie des Sciences, Dec. 1839, p. 784.; and Odontography, Introduction, and part i. passim. development of ligamentous fibres in the sub- mucous tissue between the jaw and the base of the tooth, which fibres become the medium of connection between those parts, either as elastic ligaments, or by continuous ossifi- cation. Here, therefore, is represented the " follicular" stage of the development of a mammalian tooth ; but the " eruptive " stage takes place without previous inclosure of the follicle and matrix in the substance of the jaw-bone. In Batistes, Scants, Sphyrcsna, the Sparoids, and many other fishes, the formation of the teeth presents all the usual stages which have been observed to succeed each other in the dentition of the higher Vcrtebrata: the papilla sinks into a follicle, becomes surrounded by a capsule, and is then included within a closed alveolus of the growing jaw (fig. 516. c, Vol. III. p. 979. art. Pisces), where the de- velopement of the tooth takes place and is followed by the usual eruptive stages. A distinct enamel-pulp is developed from the inner surface of the capsule in Batistes, Scarus, Sargus, and Chrysophrys. The most formidable dentition exhibited in the order of osseous fishes, is that which cha- racterises the Sphyroena, and some extinct fishes allied to this predatory genus. In the great Barracuda of the southern shores of the United States (Sphyrana Barracuda, Cuv.), the lower jaw contains a single row of large, compressed, conical, sharp-pointed, and sharp- edged teeth, resembling the blades of lancets, but stronger at the base. The two anterior of these teeth are twice as long as the rest, but the posterior and serial teeth gradually increase in size towards the back part of the jaw; there are about twenty-four of these piercing and cutting teeth in each preman- dibular bone. They are opposed to a double row of similar teeth in the upper jaw, and fit into the interspace of these two rows when the mouth is closed. The outermost row is situated on the intermaxillary, the innermost on the palatine bones ; there are no teeth on the vomer or superior maxillary bones. The two anterior teeth in each premaxillary bone equal the opposite pair in the lower jaw in size: the posterior teeth are serial, numerous, and of small size ; the second of the two an- terior large premaxillary teeth is placed on the inner side of the commencement of the row of small teeth, and is a little inclined backwards. The retaining power of all the large anterior teeth is increased by a slight posterior projection, similar to the barb of a fish-hook, but smaller. The palatine bones contain each nine or ten lancet-shaped teeth, somewhat larger than the posterior ones of the lower jaw. All these teeth afford good examples of the mode of attachment by im- plantation in sockets, which has been denied to exist in fishes.* The loss or injury to which these destruc- tive weapons are liable in the conflict which the Sphyrcena wages with its living and * Cuvier, Histoire Naturelle dos Poissons, torn. i. p 492.