1307 VARIETIES OF MANKIND. increases with great regularity, constituting the Madrep'ora verrucosa of Fabricius. If it cluster round the cylindrical and branching stem of a Fucus, it increases irregularly, and assumes the form of the Millepora tubulosa of Ellis. If its development in any direction be checked by a mechanical obstacle, the form of the mass will again be changed, and its tubes will be recurved backwards; a character on which Lamouroux founded his genus Obelia. Sometimes on the very same polypidom, we find one portion whose disposition corre- sponds with that of MiUepora tubulosa, and another which, if detached, would be con- sidered a specimen of Obelia tubulifera.* Many similar cases might be quoted ; all of them showing, not that there is any real con- fusion amongst species and genera, but that naturalists have too often assumed variable and non-essential characters as the basis of their systematic distinctions, in ignorance of those which are fixed and determinate. Thus, in the case in question, it is on the structure of the animal, not on the form of the poly- pidom, that the modern Zoophytologist places his chief reliance ; and a knowledge of this would have prevented the assignment of the varieties of coral, formed by one and the same kind of animal, to three different genera. So among Mollusca, it has been shown by Mr. Gray f that a large number of species have been formed, in consequence of the variations pre- sented by the shells of the same species at different periods of life, or developed under different circumstances. The change from salt or fresh water to brackish, or from brackish to salt or fresh, which many species are able to sustain, appears to have a con- siderable influence on the form of their shells ; thus Professor E. Forbes has shown that certain Paludincs and Naticce, which are found in successive tertiary strata in the island of Cos, associated in some cases with decidedly fresh-water, and in others with decidedly marine, testacea, are probably to be regarded as varieties of the same species, notwith- standing that they would be regarded by conchologists as distinct; gradations being- traceable between one form and another, and the changes being of a kind which are known to take place among fresh-water mol- lusca. J As an example of the mode in which the philosophic zoologist proceeds in his exami- nation of a doubtful case of unity or diversity of species, in a group more closely related to man, we shall consider the question of the relations of the several races of Dogs to each other. Every one is familiar with the fact that numerous breeds of dogs exist in almost every part of the world inhabited by civilised man, distinguished from each other by well-marked peculiarities, which appear to be transmitted continuously from parent * Memoire sur les Tubulipores, in Ann. des Sci. Nat., 2eme serie, Zool. torn. viii. t On the Structure of the Shells of Mollusca, Philosophical Transactions, 1833. % Travels in Lycia, vol. ii. p. 199. to offspring, and thus to possess a claim to rank as specific distinctions. These dif- ferences extend to stature, form, proportions, swiftness of foot, colour and texture of hair, acuteness of sensations, intelligence, and at- tachment to man ; and they are particularly well marked in the conformation of the cra- nium, the part to which the anatomist first looks for his distinctive characters, t The changes in the conformation of the cranial portion of the skull, which distinguish the domesticated races of the dog from those which have been less modified by the \ in- fluence of man, partly consist in the obli- teration of the sagittal crest, which rises up on the line of junction of the parietal bones, and of its continuation on the occipital bone. In the large deer-hound, we are assured by Prof. Owen, these cristas are as strongly developed as in the wolf; whilst in the smaller spaniel or pug, they are entirely wanting, the cranial dome being smooth and round. But " such modifications," as Prof. Owen remarks, " are unaccompanied by any change in the connections, that is in the dis- position of the sutures, of the cranial bones ; they are chiefly due to arrests of develop- ment, — to retention of more or less of the character of immaturity; even the large pro- portional size of the brain in the smaller va- rieties of house-dog, is in a great degree due to the rapid acquisition by the cerebral organ of its specific size, agreeably with the general law of its development, but which is attended in the varieties cited by an arrest of the gene- ral growth of its body, as well as of the par- ticular developments of the skull in relation to the muscles of the jaws." Such an altera- tion is considered by this eminent anatomist as fairly referable to the influence of domes- tication ; since, as he remarks, " no other domestic animal manifests so great a range of variety in regard to general size, to the colour and character of the hair, and to the form of the head, as it is affected by different propor- tions of cranium and face, and by the inter- muscular crests superadded to the cranial parietes." " Yet under the extremest mask of variety so superinduced," he continues, " the naturalist detects in the dental formula, and in the construction of the cranium, the un- mistakable generic and specific characters of the Cards familiaris." * Generally speaking, the cranial cavity of the domesticated dogs is relatively increased in capacity; the facial por- tion, on the other hand, is oftener shortened. The skull of the Australian dingo differs but little from that of a wolf. In both, the arch formed by the temporal and parietal bones is much depressed, so that the cranial cavity is small, and the head flat. The Danish dog and the mastiff resemble the dingo in the shape of their heads, and display as little of intellect or sagacity. The terrier and the hound have the parietal bones more arched, and, consequently, possess a larger cranial cavity. The greyhound has a longer muzzle, and smaller frontal sinuses than the hound ; * Zoological Transactions, vol. iii. p. 415.