SWEET DISHES. 197 strained into the yolks of two new eggs well beaten. iStir the whole into a quart of very good cream, and set it over the fire; stir it till hot, but not boiling hot; pourit into a deep dish, and let it stand twenty-four hours. Serve it in a cream-dish, to eat with fruits. Many people prefer it without any flavour but that of the cream ; in which case add a quart of new milk and the cream, or do it as the Devonshire scalded cream. When done enough, a round mark will appear on the surface of the cream, the size of the bottom of the pan it is done in, which in the country they call the ring; and when that is seen, remove the pan from the fire. A Froth to set on cream, custard, or trifle, which looks and eats well. Sweeten half a pound of the pulp of damsons, or any other sort of scalded fruit, put to it the whites of four eggs beaten, and beat the pulp with them until it will stand as high as you choose; and being put on the cream, &c. with a spoon, it will take any form; it should be rough, to imitate a rock. A Carmel cover for Sweetmeats. Dissolveeight ounces of double-refined sugarinthree or four spoonfuls of water, and three or four drops of lemon-juice ; then put it into a copper untinned skillet; when it boils to be thick, dip the handle of a spoon in it, and put that into a pint-bason of water, squeeze the sugar from the spoon into it, and so on till you have all the sugar. Take a bit out of the water, and if it snaps, and is brittle when cold, it is done e’nough: but only let it be three parts cold, when pour the water from the sugar, and having a copper form oiled well, run the sugar on it, in the manner of a maze, and when cold you may put on the dish it is to cover; but if on trial the sugar is not brittle, pour off the water, and return it into the skillet, and boil it again. It should look thick like treacle, but of a bright light gold-colour. It is a most elegant cover. Calf's Feet Jelly. Boil two feet in two quarts and a pint of water till tho