250 DOMESTIC COOICEUY. off, and mix all together. A pound and a half of hops should be infused in water, as in the former receipt, and be put into the tub for the first running. Boil the hops with the wort an hour from the time it first boils. Strain off and cool. If the whole be not cool enough that day to add to the yeast, a pail or twoofwort may be prepared, and a quart ofyeastputto it overnight. Before tunning,all the wort should be added together, andthoroughlymixed with the lade-pail. Whenthe wort ceases to work, put a bit of paper on the bung-hole for three days, when it may be safely fastened close. In three or four weeks the beer will be fit for drinking. Note. Servants should be directed to put a cork into every barrel as soon as the cork is taken out, and to fasten in the vent-peg, the air causing casks to become musty. To Refine Beer, Ale, Wine, or Cycler. Put two ounces of isinglass shavings to soak in a quart of the liquor that you want to clear, beat it with a whisk every day till dissolved. Draw off a third part of the cask, and mix the above with it: likewise a quarter of an ounce of pearl-ashes, one ounce of salt of tartar calcined, and one ounce of burnt alum powdered. Stir it well, then return the liquor into the cask, and stir it with a clean stick. Stop it up, and in a few days it will be fine. Bx tract of Malt for Coughs. Over half a bushel of pale ground malt pour as much hot, not boiling water, as will just cover it. In forty- eight hours drain off the liquor entirely, but without squeezing the grains ; put the former into a largesweet- meat-pan, or sauce-pan, that there may be room to boil as quick as possible, without boiling over; when it be- gins to thicken stir constantly. It must be as thick as treacle. A dessert-spoon thrice a-day. To Preserve Yeast. "When you have plenty of yeast, begin to save it in the following manner : whisk it until it becomes thin, then take a new large wooden dish, wash it very nicely, and when quite dry, lay a layer of yeast over the inside