DOMESTIC COOKERY. 300 To make Flannels keep their colour, and not shrink. Put them into a pail, and pour boiling water on, letting them lie till cold, the first time of washing. To preserve Furs and Woollen from moths. Let the former be occasionally combed while in use, and the latter he brushed and shaken. When not want- ed, dry them first, let them be cool, then mix among them bitter apples from the apothecary’s, in small mus- lin bags, sewing them in several folds of linen, care- fully turned in at the edges, and keep from damp. To dye the Linings of Furniture Sfc. Luff or Salmon-colour, according to the depth of the hue.—Eub down on a pewter-plate twopenny-worth of Spanish arnatto, and then boil it in a pail of water a quarter of an hour. Put into it two ounces of pot-ash, stir it round, and instantly put in the linen ; stir it about all the time it is boiling, which must be five or six minutes; then put it into cold pump-water, and hang the articles up singly without wringing. When almost dry, fold and mangle it. Fink.—The calico must be washed extremely clean, and be dry. Then boil it in two gallons of soft water, and four ounces of alum; take it out, and dry in the air. In the meantime boil in the alum-water two handful? of wheat bran till quite slippery, and then strain it. Take two scruples of cochineal, and two ounces of argal finely pounded and sifted; mix with it the liquor by a little at a time. Then put into the liquor the calico; and boil till it is almost wasted, moving it about. Take out the ca- lico, and wash it in chamberlye first, and in cold water after: then rinse it in water-starch strained, and dry it quickwithout hanging it in folds. Mangle it very highly, unless you have it calendered, which is best. Blue.—Let the calico be washed clean and dried ; then mix some of Scot’s liquid blue in as much water as will be sufficient to cover the things to be dyed, and put some starch to it to give a light stiffness. Dry a bit, to see whether the colour is deep enough; then set