point. C7 turn it every clay for three weeks ; if a large one, a week longer; but don’t rub after four days. Before you dry it, drain and cover with bran. Smoke it ten days. Another way.—Choose the leg of a hog that is fat and well-led; hang it as above: if large, put to it a pound of bay-salt, four ounces of saltpetre, a pound of the coarsest sugar, and a handful of common salt, all in fine powder, and rub it thoroughly. Lay the rind-down- wards, and cover the fleshy part with the salts. Baste it as often as you can with the pickle; the more the bet- ter. Keep it four weeks, turning it every day. Drain it, and throw bran over it; then hang it in a chimney where wood is burnt, and term it sometimes for ten days. Another icay.—Hang the ham, and sprinkle it with salt as above; then rub it every day with the following, in fine powder; half a pound of common salt, the same quantity of bay-salt, two ounces of saltpetre, and two ounces of black pepper, mixed with a pound and a half of treacle. Turn it twice a day in the pickle, for three weeks. Lay it into a pail of water for one night, wipe it quite dry, and smoke it two or three weeks. Another icay that gives a high flavour.—When the weather will permit, hang the ham three days; mix an ounce of saltpetre, with a quarter of a pound of bay-salt, the same quantity of common salt, and also of coarse sugar, and a quart of strong beer: boil them together, and pour them immediately upon the ham; turn it twice a day in the pickle for three weeks. An ounce of black pepper, and the same quantity of allspice, in fine pow- der, added to the above, will give still more flavour. Cover it with bran when wiped; and smoke it from three to four weeks, as you approve: the latter will make it harder and give it more of the flavour of Westphalia. Sew hams in hessings (that is, coarse wrappers), if to be smoked where there is a strong fire. A method of giving a still higher flavour.—Sprinkle the ham with salt, after it has hung two or three days ; let it drain; make a pickle of a quart of strong beer, half a pound of treacle, an ounce of coriander-seeds, two