PASxitr. 1G3 To prepare Venison for pasty. Take the bones out, then season and beat the meat, lay it into a stone jar in large pieces, pour upon it some plain drawn-beef gravy, but not a strong one, lay the bones on the top, then set the jar in a water-bath, that is a sauce- pan of water over the tire, simmer three or four hours— then leave it in a cold place till next day. Remove the cake of fat, lay the meat in handsome pieces on the dish; if not sufficiently seasoned, add more pepper, salt or pimento as necessary. Put some of the gravy, and keep the remainder for the time of serving. If the venison be thus prepared, it will not require so much time to bake, or such a very thick crust as is usual, and by which the under part is seldom done through. Venison pasty. A shoulder boned makes a good pasty, but it must be beaten and seasoned, and the want of fat supplied by that of a fine well-hung loin of mutton, steeped twenty- four hours in equal parts of rape, vinegar, and port. The shoulder being sinewy, it will be of advantage to rub it well with sugar for two or three days, and when to be used wipe it perfectly clean from it, and the wine. A mistake used to prevail, that venison could not be baked too much; but, as above directed, three or four hours in a slow oven will be sufficient to make it tender, and the flavour will be preserved. Either in a shoulder or side, the meat must be cut in pieces, and laid with fat between, that it may be proportioned to each person, without breaking up the pasty to fiud it. Lay some pep- per and salt at the bottom of the dish, and some butter; then the meat nicely packed, that it may be sufficiently done, but not lie hollow to harden at the edges. The venison bones should be boiled with some fine old mutton—of this gravy put half a pint cold into the dish; then lay butter on the venison, and cover as well as line the sides with a thick crust, but don’t put one under the meat. Keep the remainder of the gravy till the pasty comes from the oven; put it into the middle by