SWEET DISHES. 205 ed but not boiled to a mash, dry it on the shallow end of a sieve before the fire, and either serve it dry, or put it in the middle of a dish, and pour the gravy round, having heated it. Carr ole of Rice. Take some well-picked rice, wash it well, and boil it five minutes in water, strain it, and put it into a stew- pan, with a bit of butter, a good slice of ham, and an onion. Stew it over a very gentle fire till tender; have ready a mould lined with very thin slices of bacon: mix the yolks of two or three eggs with the rice, and then line the bacon with it about half an inch thick; put into it ragout of chicken, rabbit, veal, or of any thing else. Fill up the mould, and cover it close with rice. Bake it in a quick oven an hour, turn it over, and send it to the table in a good gravy or curry sauce. Casserol, or Rice Edging, see page 126. Salmagundy Is a beautiful small dish, if in nice shape, and if the co- lours of the ingredientsare varied. Forthis purposechop separately the white part of cold chicken or veal, yolks of eggs boiled hard, the whites of eggs ; parsley, half a do- zen anchovies, beet-root, red pickled cabbage, ham, and grated tongue, or anything well-flavoured, and of a good colour. Some people like a small proportion of onion, but it may be better omitted. A saucer, large tea-cup, or any other base, must be put into a small dish; then make rows round it wide at bottom, andgrowing smaller towards the top;choosingsuch ofthe ingredientsfor each row as will most vary the colours. At the top a little sprig of curled parsley may be stuck in; or, without any thing on the dish, the salmagundy may be laid in rows, orput into the half-whites of eggs,which may be made to stand upright by cuttingoff a bit at the round end. In the latter case,each half-egg has but one ingredient. Curled butter and parsley may be put as garnish between. Macaroni as usually served. Boil it in milk, or a weak veal broth, pretty well fla- voured with salt. When tender, put it into a dish with-