DISSECTION OF THE NECK. 51 above omo- hyoid ; below, and a small nerve. Define serratus, and nerves piercing scalenus. Boundaries. Is divided by omo- hyoid. Part near clavicle. Extent of the space. Trunks of vessels and nerves, and their relative position. Branches of vessels. cervical plexus, together with the spinal accessory nerve ; the latter will be recognised by its piercing the sterno-mastoicl muscle. The greater number of the branches of the cervical plexus descend to the shoulder ; but the small occipital and great auricular nerves ascend to the head, and the superficial cervical branch is directed forwards, over the sterno-mastoid muscle. Below the omo-hyoid find the large subclavian artery and the brachial plexus, which have a deep position, and run downwards and outwards. Also the following vessels and nerve are to be sought, viz., the suprascapular vessels behind the clavicle ; the trans- verse cervical vessels, which are higher in the neck, taking an out- ward direction beneath the omo-hyoid muscle; and, lastly, the small branch of nerve to the subclavius muscle, which lies about the middle of the space between the clavicle and the omo-hyoid. Underneath the trapezius, where it is attached to the clavicle,, define the serratus magnus muscle ; and behind the brachial plexus, towards the lower part of the space, the middle scalenus muscle appears. Through the scalenus issue two muscular nerves ; one, formed by two or three roots, for the serratus magnus ; the other smaller, and higher up, for the rhomboidei. Limits of the space. The space is bounded in front by the sterno- mastoid muscle (*) ; and behind by the trapezius (2). Its base corre- sponds with the middle third of the clavicle, and its apex is at the skull. In its area are several muscles, which are placed in the following order from above down, viz., splenius capitis, levator anguli scapulae (6), and middle scalenus (5) ; and at the lower and outer angle, somewhat beneath the trapezius, lies the upper part of the serratus magnus. Covering the space are the structures already examined, viz., the skin and superficial fascia, the platysma over the lower half or two-thirds, and the deep fascia. The small omo-hyoid muscle (3) crosses the space near the clavicle, so as to divide it into two, a lower or clavicular, and an upper or occipital part. The clavicular part is the smaller, and contains the subclavian artery. It is triangular in form, with its base directed forwards, and is bounded in front by the sterno-mastoid (*), above by the omo-hyoid (3), and below by the clavicle. This space measures commonly about two inches from before backwards, and about one inch from above down at its base. Crossing the area of this space, rather above the level of the clavicle, is the trunk of the subclavian artery (7), which issues from beneath the anterior scalenus muscle, and is directed over the first rib to the axilla. In the ordinary condition of the vessel the com- panion subclavian vein is seldom seen, owing to its being placed lower down behind the clavicle. Above the artery are the large cords of the brachial plexus (9), which accompany the vessel, and become closely applied to it beneath the clavicle. Behind the artery and the nerves is the middle scalenus muscle (5). And below the vessel is the first rib. Along the lower boundary of the space, and rather beneath the