325 CARPO-METACARPAL ARTICULATIONS. bone is brought in front of the palm;, and as the movement proceeds, the thumb is gradually turned towards the fingers, passing into the state of opposition. In this way the thumb may be made to touch and opposi- the palmar surface of any or all of the fingers, the phalanges of the tl0n' latter being somewhat bent at the same time. Extension of the extending; joint is very free, and by it the metacarpal bone is removed from the palm towards the outer border of the forearm. Abduction and adduction. By these movements the thumb is and lateral placed in contact with, or removed from the fore finger. motion. The metacarpal bones of the fingers receive longitudinal bands from joints of the carpal bones on both aspects, thus :— fingers The dorsal ligaments (fig. 99) are two to each, except to the bone have dorsal of the little finger. The bands of the metacarpal Fig. 99.* bone of the fore finger come from the trapezium and tra- pezoid ; those of the third metacarpal are attached to the trapezoid and os mag- num ; the bone of the ring finger receives its bands from the os magnum and unciform ; and to the fifth metacarpal bone there is but one ligament from the unci- form. The palmar ligaments (fig. 96), usually one to each metacarpal bone, are weaker and less constant than the dorsal. These liga- ments may be oblique in direction ; and sometimes a band is divided between two, as in the case of a ligament passing from the trapezium to the second and third metacarpals. One or more may be wanting. On the ulnar side of the metacarpal bone of the middle digit is lateral band, a longitudinal lateral band, which is attached above to the os mag- num and unciform, and below to a rough part on the inner side of the base of the above mentioned bone. Sometimes this band isolates the articulation of the last two metacarpals with the unciform bone from the remaining carpo-metacarpal joint; but more frequently it is divided into two parts, and does not form a complete partition. This band may be seen by opening from behind the articulation between the unciform and the last two metacarpal bones ; and by cutting through the transverse ligaments joining the third and fourth metacarpals so as to allow their separation. Movement. Scarcely any appreciable antero-posterior movement Very little exists in the articulations of the bases of the metacarpal bones of m0 10n' * Posterior ligaments of the wrist, and carpal and metacarpal bones (Bourgery). 1. Posterior radio-carpal. 2. Carpo-metacarpal capsule of the thumb. 3, 3. Transverse bands between the bases of the metacarpal bones.