365 AZYGOS VEINS. branching. Near the head of the rib it recei ves a contributing dorsal branch, and then joins an azygos vein. The SUPERIOR INTERCOSTAL ARTERY of the Subclavian trunk (p. 71) Superior intcrcosfccLl descends over the neck of the first rib, external to the cord of the sympathetic, and supplies a branch to the first intercostal space : ^ two6S one continuing to the second space, which it supplies in like manner, it spaces, ends by anastomosing with the upper aortic branch. Its intercostal offsets divide into anterior and posterior branches, which are distributed like the arteries from the aorta. The azygos veins are two in number on the left side and one on Three the right, and receive branches corresponding to the offsets furnished veins, by the descending thoracic aorta. The right or large azygos (fig. 109,3) begins in the lumbar veins Large _ on the right side of the spine ; and its origin is described with the right°skie,011 vessels of the abdomen (p. 538). It enters the thorax through the aortic opening of the diaphragm, and ascends on the right side of the aorta and thoracic duct, over the intercostal arteries and the bodies of the vertebrse. Opposite the fifth rib the vein arches for- wards above the root of the right lung, and enters the superior cava and joins as this vessel pierces the pericardium. Its valves are few and very cav|r:101 incomplete, so that the intraspinal and intercostal veins may be injected through it. Branches. In this vein are collected the intercostals of the right branches side with the exception of the first; most of the intercostals of the Jomin° 1 " left side of the thorax, through the left azygos veins ; and some small oesophageal, mediastinal, and vertebral veins, with the right bronchial vein. By means of the right azygos vein the inferior communicates with the superior cava, so that blood may reach the heart from the lower half of the body if the inferior cava should be obstructed. The left lower azygos vein (fig. 109,4) begins in the abdomen in Left lower the lumbar veins on the left side of the vertebral column. Entering the thorax along with the aorta, or through the cms of the begins in diaphragm, the vein ascends on the left of the aorta as high as the aMomen' ninth or eighth dorsal vertebra, where it crosses beneath that ^dsJn vessel and the thoracic duct to end in the right azygos. It receives azygos: the three or four lower intercostal veins of the left side, and some branches, oesophageal and mediastinal branches. The left upper azygos vein (fig. 109,5) is formed by offsets from Left upper the spaces between the superior intercostal and the preceding. vem' Receiving three or four branches, the trunk either joins the lower azygos of its own side, or crosses the spine to open into the right vein. The superior intercostal vein is a short trunk which is formed by Superior the union of the veins from the second, third, and fourth spaces. ^inr?ostal On the right side it descends to join the beginning of the arch of ending of the large azygos vein; but on the left side (fig. 108, i) it is directed nght' forwards across the arch of the aorta, and then turns upwards to and of left. enter the left innominate vein. The highest intercostal vein ascends from the first intercostal space, Jem from first sp3.cc.