145 FACIAL NERVE IN THE BONE. * Connecting branches of the geniculate ganglion.—From the con- vexity of the swelling on the facial nerve three small branches proceed. One is the large superficial petrosal nerve (2), passing to to Meckel's the Vidian (p. 142) ; another is a filament of communication with j^J^nic of the small superficial petrosal nerve of the tympanic plexus (3) ; and giosso-pha- the third is the external superficial petrosal nerve (4), which unites sympa-' &m the ganglion with the sympathetic on the middle meningeal thetic; artery. * The branch of the stapedius muscle arises at the back of the nerve to tympanum, and is directed forwards to its muscle. stapedius, Chorda tympani. This long but slender branch of the facial chorda nerve crosses the tympanum, and ends in the tongue. Arising to Ungual, about a quarter of an inch from the stylo-mastoid foramen, it enters the tympanum below the pyramid. In the cavity (fig. 35,5) the nerve is directed forwards across the handle of the malleus and the membrana tympani to an aperture on the inner side of the Glaserian fissure, through which it leaves the tympanum. Outside the skull the chorda tympani joins the lingual nerve, and continues along it to the submaxillary ganglion and the tongue (p. 98). The auditory nerve will be learnt with the ear. Entering the Auditory ii6rvc internal auditory meatus with the facial nerve, it divides into an upper smaller, and a lower larger part, which are distributed to the membranous labyrinth. Otic ganglion. At this stage of the dissection there is little to otic be seen of the ganglion, but the student should keep in mind that sang 10 ' it is one of the things to be examined in a fresh part. Its situation is on the inner aspect of the inferior maxillary nerve, immediately below the foramen ovale, and it adheres closely to the trunk of the nerve. Dissection (fig. 36). Putting the part in the same position as for ^g^-j?11* the examination of Meckel's ganglion, the dissector should define the Eustachian tube and the muscles of the palate, and then take away the levator palati and the cartilaginous portion of the tube, using much care in removing the latter. When some loose areolar tissue has been cleared away, the internal pterygoid muscle (b) comes into view, with the trunk of the inferior maxillary nerve above it; and a branch (internal pterygoid,5) descending from that nerve to the muscle. If the nerve to the pterygoid be taken as a guide, it will lead to the ganglion. To complete the dissection, saw vertically through the petrous to define part of the temporal bone near the inner wall of the tympanum, Ind^ts" the bone being supported while it is divided. Taking off some branches. membrane which covers the ganglion, the student may follow back- wards a small branch to the tensor tympani muscle ; but he should open the small tube that contains the muscle, by entering it below through the carotid canal. Above this small branch there is another minute nerve (small superficial petrosal), which issues from the skull, and joins the back of the ganglion. A small twig is to be sought from the front of the ganglion to the tensor palati L