QUADRATUS LUMBORUM MUSCLE. 583 hip-joint. The inner margin is overlapped by the psoas ; and the anterior crural nerve lies between the two. The relations of the united psoas and iliacus below Poupart's ligament are given with the dissection of the thigh (p. 629). Action. The iliacus raises the femur with the psoas when the use to bend limb is moveable, and bends forwards the pelvis when the limb is ip'Joint- fixed. The psoas and iliacus may be regarded as two heads of one muscle—the iliopsoas. The quadratus lumborum (fig. 166, g) is a short, flattened Quadratus muscle between the pelvis and the last rib. About two inches wide 0""o!in°! .1' below, it arises from the ilio-lumbar ligament, and from the iliac crest behind, and an inch outside that band ; it generally receives in addition two or three slips from the transverse processes of the upper lumbar vertebras. The fibres ascend to be inserted by insertion: distinct fleshy and tendinous slips into the apices of the transverse processes of the upper four lumbar vertebras, and into the lower border of the last rib for a variable distance. This muscle is encased in a sheath derived from the fascia is contained lumborum. Crossing the surface are branches of the lumbar plexus, 111 a s ea '' together with the last dorsal nerve and its vessels. Behind the quadratus is the erector spinas muscle. Action. Both muscles keep straight the spine (one muscle antago- use of both nising the other) ; and by fixing the last rib they aid in the more luuscles' complete contraction of the diaphragm. One muscle will incline laterally the lumbar region of the spine of one. to the same side, and depress the last rib. Fascia of the quadratus. Covering the surface of the quadratus is Fascia of the a thin membrane, which is derived from the hinder aponeurosis of ciuadratus- the transversalis abdominis (fascia lumborum ; p. 386) ; it passes in front of the quadratus to be fixed to the tips and borders of the lumbar transverse processes, to the ilio-lumbar ligament below, and to the last rib above. A thickened band of this fascia forms the external arched ligament, to which the diaphragm is connected (p. 524). Fascia of the iliacus and psoas. A fascia covers the double flexor iliac fascia of the hip-joint, and is fixed to the bone on each side of the muscle, nio-^soas • The membrane is strongest opposite the pelvis, where it is attached attachments to the iliac crest on the outer side, and to the brim of the cavity on below> the inner side : it receives a strong accession from the tendon of the psoas parvus when that muscle is present. Over the upper part of and above, the psoas it becomes thin, and is fixed on the one side to the lumbar vertebras; while on the other it is blended with the fascia over the quadratus ; and above, it joins the internal arched ligament of the diaphragm. Its disposition at Poupart's ligament, and the part that it takes in the formation of the crural sheath, have been before explained (p. 463). Dissection. The student is now to clean the lymphatic glands Trace the lying along the vertebras, and to trace upwards some lymphatic ty111?11^108* vessels to the thoracic duct.