COMMOX CAROTID ARTERY. 117 with the internal jugular vein. Double valves, like those of the Valves, veins, are present in the interior of the tube ; and a pair guards the opening into the posterior part of the vein. Frequently the Frequent upper part of the duct is divided ; and there may be separate variety- openings into the large veins corresponding with those divi- sions. Large lymphatic vessels from the left side of the head and neck, Branches, and from the left upper limb, open into the upper part of the duct, and sometimes separately into the veins (10). Examine next the brachial and cervical plexuses, using the de- Spiual scription of the right side (pp. 71 to 74). nerves- Common carotids. On opposite sides these vessels have differ- Difference m ences like those between the right and left subclavian arteries ; for rfghtand left carotids. Fig. 28.* the left vessel arises from the arch of the aorta, and is therefore longer than the right, and contained partly in the chest. The description of the artery between its origin and the top of the sternum will be included in the dissection of the thorax. Beyond the sterno-clavicular articulation, the vessels on both in the neck sides so nearly resemble one another that the same description may serve for the two (p. 74). On the left side, however, the difference jugular vein and the pneumo-gastric nerve are nearer to the carotid ^™ein and than on the right side, and are sometimes placed over the artery, in the lower third of the neck.f Parts in the upper aperture op the thorax. The relative parts in the aperture of thorax. * Diagram of the ending of the right lymphatic duct and the thoracic duct in the veins. 1. Upper vena cava. 2. Right, and 3. Left innominate vein. 4. Left, and 5. Right internal jugular. 6. Left, and 7. Right subclavian vein. 8. Thoracic duct. 9. A lymphatic trunk joining the right lymphatic duct, as this is about to end in the subclavian vein. 10. A lymphatic trunk opening separately into the left subclavian vein. ■J* Occasionally these differences will be reversed—the vein and nerve being close to the artery on the right side, and away from it on the left.