EADIAL ARTERY AT WRIST. 313 ends by anastomosing with the carpal and anterior interosseous arteries. It furnishes muscular offsets to the surrounding muscles, and the following recurrent branch :— The recurrent branch (6) springs from the artery near the beginning, its recur- and ascends on or through the fibres of the supinator, but beneath rent branch the anconeus, to supply both those muscles and the elbow-joint : it anastomoses with the superior profunda artery and the recurrent radial. The POSTERIOR INTEROSSEOUS NERVE (3) is derived from the Interosseous musculo-spiral trunk (p. 281), and winds backwards through thenerve: fibres of the supinator brevis. Issuing from the supinator, the nerve is placed between the superficial and deep layers of muscles as far as position to the middle of the forearm. Much reduced in size at that spot, it muscles; sinks beneath the extensor of the second phalanx of the thumb, and runs on the interosseous membrane to the back of the carpus. Finally, the nerve enlarges beneath the tendons of the extensor com- termination munis digitorum, and terminates in filaments to the articulations of ffe^pi'J. the carpus. Branches. It furnishes offsets to all the muscles of the deep layer, its muscular and to those of the superficial layer with the exception of the three b following, viz., anconeus, supinator longus, and extensor carpi radialis longior. Kadial artery at the wrist (fig. 92). The radial artery (d), Radial with its vense comites, winds below the radius to the back of the wris/:^ carpus, and enters the palm of the hand at the first interosseous space, between the heads of the first dorsal interosseous muscle. At first the vessel lies deeply on the external lateral ligament of the relations to wrist-joint, and beneath the tendons of the extensors of the meta- around, carpal bone (e) and first phalanx of the thumb (p) ; but afterwards it is more superficial, and is crossed by the tendon of the extensor of the second phalanx of the thumb (g). Offsets of the musculo-cutaneous nerve entwine around the artery and nerves. (p. 284), and branches of the radial nerve are superficial to it. Its Branches , 77 -i , • •nil-- are small: branches are numerous but inconsiderable m size :— a. The dorsal carpal branch (/) passes transversely beneath the to back_of extensor tendons, and forms an arch with a corresponding offset of carpus' the ulnar artery ; this arch is joined by the interosseous arteries. From the carpal arch branches (#) descend to the third and fourth dorsal inter- interosseous spaces, and constitute two of the three dorsal interosseous osseous '■> arteries: at the cleft of the fingers each divides into two, which are continued along the dorsum of the digits. Below they communicate with the digital arteries ; and above they are joined by the perforat- ing branches of the deep palmar arch. b. The metacarpal or first dorsal interosseous branch (fig. 91, b) metacarpal; gains the space between the second and third metacarpal bones, and receives, like the corresponding arteries of the other spaces, a per- forating branch from the deep palmar arch. Finally, it is continued to the cleft of the fingers, where it joins the digital artery of the superficial palmar arch, and gives small dorsal branches to the index and middle fingers.