EXTERNAL LIGAMENTS OF KNEE. 693 upper and outer part of the head of the fibula. Beneath the liga- ment are the tendon of the popliteus, and the external lower articular vessels and nerve. A second fasciculus is sometimes present behind the other, but occasional it is not attached to the femur ; it is connected above with the gastrocnemius, and below with the styloid process of the head of the fibula. The tendon of the biceps is inserted by two pieces into the head of Tendon of the fibula; and from both of these, fibres are prolonged to the head d^vided.PS 1S of the tibia. The external lateral ligament passes between the pieces into which the tendon is split. The tendon of the popliteus may be followed by dividing the Tendon of posterior ligament. It arises from the fore part of the oblong teus1>opl1" depression on the outer surface of the external condyle of the femur. In its course to the outside of the joint, it crosses the external semilunar fibro-cartilage and the upper tibio-peroneal articulation. When the joint is bent, the tendon lies in the hollow on the condyle ; but it slips out of that groove when the limb is extended. The tendon of the adductor maqnus is inserted into the adductor and of, 3,clcluctor tubercle on the internal condyle of the femur, above the attachment magnus. of the internal lateral ligament. The internal lateral ligament (fig. 213, 3) is attached above to the Internal condyle of the femur, where it blends with the capsule ; but becoming ment^ hga" thicker below, and separate from the rest of the capsule, it is fixed attach- for about an inch into the inner surface of the tibia, below the level ments; of the ligamentum patellse : some of the deeper fibres join the internal semilunar fibro-cartilage. The tendons of the sartorius, gracilis, and semitendinosus muscles is joined by lie over the ligament ; and the tendon of the semimembranosus, ^anosus! and the internal lower articular vessels and nerve are beneath it. To the posterior edge some fibres from the tendon of the semimem- branosus are added. The tendon of the semimembranosus muscle is inserted beneath the Insertion _ internal lateral ligament into the lower part of the groove at the membrano- back of the inner tuberosity of the tibia : between it and the upper sus. edge of the groove is a synovial bursa. The tendon sends a few fibres to the internal lateral ligament, a prolongation to join the fascia on the popliteus muscle, and another to the posterior ligament of the knee-joint. The posterior ligament is wide and membranous, and is formed Posterior in great part by a strong slip from the tendon of the semimem- ,lgamen ' branosus, which is directed across the joint to the outer side. It is fixed below to the head of the tibia behind the articular surface; and above, it is attached to the femur at the upper border of the intercondylar notch in the centre, but on each side it joins the tendinous head of the gastrocnemius. Numerous apertures exist in it for the passage of the vessels and nerves to the interior of the articulation; and the tendon of the popliteus pierces its outer part.