692 DISSECTION OF THE LEG. Bones in the Articulation of the Knee. The knee is the largest joint in knee-joint. ^e \)0^j^ anc[ js formed by the contiguous ends of the tibia and femur, with the patella. The articular surfaces of the bones are covered with cartilage, and are maintained in apposition by strong and numerous ligaments. Oapsui . The capsule (fig. 212) is an aponeurotic covering on-the front of the joint, which closes the wide intervals between the anterior and how formed, the lateral ligaments ; and it is derived from the fascia lata united with fibrous offsets of the extensor and flexor muscles. It covers the anterior and the external lateral ligaments, being inserted below into the heads of the tibia and fibula : and it blends on the inner side arrange ment.i Fig. 212.* Fig. 213.+ The external ligaments. To define the liga- ments how to proceed. External lateral liga- ment is small : with the internal lateral ligament. It is separated from the synovial membrane by the anterior ligament and by fat. Dissection. Four external ligaments, anterior and posterior, inter- nal and external lateral, are situate at opposite parts of the articula- tion. The posterior and the internal lateral ligaments will appear on the removal of the areolar tissue from their surfaces ; but the anterior and the external lateral are covered by the aponeurosis on the front of the joint, and will not be laid bare till this has been cut through. If there is a second external lateral band present, it is not concealed by the aponeurosis. The external lateral ligament (fig. 212,2) is round and cord-like. It is attached to the tuberosity of the outer condyle of the femur, below the tendon of the gastrocnemius, and descends vertically between two pieces of the tendon of the biceps to a depression on the * External aspect of the knee-joint (Bourgery). 1. Anterior ligament. 2. External lateral ligament. 3. Interosseous membrane. 4. Part of the capsule. + Internal aspect of the knee-joint (Bourgery). 1. Tendon of the extensor muscle, ending below in the ligament of the patella, 2. 3. Internal lateral ligament. 4. Inner part of the capsule.