POPLITEAL ARTERY AND BRANCHES. 647 but both above and below, it is concealed by the muscles bounding the hollow. The description of the artery may be conveniently divided into two parts,—one reaching to the lower limit of the ham, and the other being beneath the gastrocnemius. As far as the ham the vessel is inclined obliquely from the inner The part in side of the limb to the interval between the condyles of the femur, the ham: and is then directed along the middle of the space over the knee- course and joint. The artery is overlain by the belly of the semimembranosus relatl0US» muscle to within an inch of the internal condyle; but thence onwards it is situate between the heads of the gastrocnemius, and is covered only by the fascia lata and the integuments. Beneath it is the femur, with the posterior ligament of the knee-joint. In contact with the vessel, and somewhat on the outer side at j^1*1^of first, lies the popliteal vein, so that on looking into the space, the ' arterial trunk is almost covered ; but in the interval between the heads of the gastrocnemius, the vein and its branches conceal altogether the artery. In the lower part of the ham the short saphenous vein (fig. 199, i), and the muscular branches of the artery, are also superficial to the popliteal trunk. More superficial than the large vessels, and slightly external to and of the them in position, is placed the internal popliteal nerve, which, with nerves- its branches, lies over the artery, like the vein, between the heads of the gastrocnemius. In the bottom of the hollow the small obturator nerve runs on the artery to the joint. Dissection. To see the deep part of the artery, the inner head of j^"^^ the gastrocnemius should be cut through and raised. On removing gastrocne- the areolar tissue the vessels and nerves will appear. The lower mius- articular branches of the vessels and nerve are now brought into view;—the inner artery is below the head of the tibia, and the outer, higher up, between the tibia and fibula, each with a vein; and the first has a companion nerve. Beyond the ham. While the artery is beneath the gastrocnemius Artery be-^ (fig. 204) it sinks deeply into the limb ; here it is crossed by a small yond ham' muscle—the plantaris (c), and the ending is concealed by the soleus (b). It rests on the popliteus muscle. Both the companion vein and the internal popliteal nerve change position of their position to the artery, and gradually cross over to it, so as to nerve, lie on its inner side at the lower border of the popliteus. Sometimes the artery is divided as high as the back of the knee- joint ; and then the anterior tibial artery may lie beneath the pop- liteus muscle. Branches (fig. 199) are furnished by the artery to the surround- Branches of ing muscles, to the integuments, and to the articulation;—those aitery- that belong to the joint are five in number, and are called articular, viz., two superior, inner and outer; two inferior, also inner and outer; and a central or azygos branch. a. The muscular branches are upper and lower. The upper set, Muscular three or four in number, arise above the knee, and end in the semi- ' membranosus and biceps muscles, communicating with the perforat- ing and muscular branches of the profunda. The lower set (sural)