551 URETHRA AND PENIS. with a fourth of the spongy part. Its convexity, which is turned where downwards and backwards, is greatest immediately below the srea eh ' triangular ligament in the erect posture of the body ; and from this point it ascends to the bladder, but is directed nearly horizontally forwards to the penis. It is surrounded by voluntary and involuntary muscular fibres : Voluntary thus, above the ligament, by the involuntary muscular tissue of iUntary the prostate; within the ligament by the voluntary constrictor muscles. .. 5 . & J . . J surround it. urethrse, with a thin involuntary layer inside that muscle ; and below the ligament by the voluntary ejaculator urinse. Its size is smallest where the tube pierces the perineal liga- Slze- ment (n), and lies between the layers ; and it is largest in the middle of the prostate. Dissection. The tegumentary covering of the penis may be com- Dissection, pletely removed, to see the components of that body ; and after its removal the spongy part of the urethra will be better seen. The skin should be replaced after the penis has been learnt. The penis is attached to the fore part of the pelvis, and hangs in Consti- front of the scrotum. It is constructed of two firm fibrous bodies situation ot (fig. 170, e) named corpora cavernosa, which are filled with antlieTenis: areolar structure containing blood. Below these is a soft spongy substance (corpus spongiosum) which surrounds the urethra, and forms the head or the glans penis. The legumentary investment, which covers the whole, is noticed at p. 439. The body of the penis is rather prismatic in shape. The upper ^^J.i^ent surface is slightly grooved along the middle line ; and the lower rounded border is formed by the corpus spongiosum, which is received into a larger groove between the corpora cavernosa. Besides the attachment of the corpora cavernosa to the bone, the body of the penis is connected with the front of the symphysis pubis by the suspensory ligament (p. 439). The corpus spongiosum urethrce encloses the urethral canal beyond Corpus the triangular ligament, and forms the head of the penis. It is a spon»losulu vascular and erectile texture, like the corpora cavernosa, but is much less strong. Commencing posteriorly by a dilated part—the surrounds bulb, it extends forwards around the urethra to the extremity of sweiistnto^ the penis, where it swells into the conical glans penis. The bulb (fig. 170, d) is directed backwards below the mem-the bulb, branous part of the urethra, and is firmly united to the under surface of the triangular ligament. The ejaculator urinse muscles cover it. This enlargement presents usually a slight central de- which is pression, with a bulging on each side, forming two lateral lobes. kilobate, The glans penis (fig. 178, I) is somewhat conical in form, and and the covers the truncated ends of the corpora cavernosa. Its base is ^ampenis directed backwards, and is marked by a slightly prominent border —the corona glandis; it is sloped obliquely along the under aspect, from the apex to the base. In the apex is the vertical slit (meatus urinarius), in which the urethral canal terminates ; and below that aperture is an excavation, which contains the fold of skin named froenum prmputii.