650 DISSECTION OF THE THIGH. is superficial to, and another beneath the vessel : they are joined by the deep lymphatic vessels, and by the superficial set with the external saphenous vein. THE BACK OF THE THIGH. Dissect the back of the thigh. Seek out cutaneous nerves, clean mus- cles and nerves. Three mus- cles on back of thigh: situation. Biceps arises by a long and a short head; is inserted into the fibula and tibia; relations; and hip- joints, on pelvis, and femur. Semitendi- nosus is attached to pelvis and tibia: Dissection (fig. 199). After the popliteal space, the student may proceed with the dissection of the back of the thigh. The limb being replaced in the hanging position, the piece of skin between the buttock and the ham should be divided and reflected to the sides. In the fat on the outer side of the limb fine offsets of the external cutaneous nerve of the thigh may be found ; and along the middle some filaments from the small sciatic nerve pierce the fascia. Remove the deep fascia of the limb, taking care of the small sciatic nerve and its artery. Lastly, clean the hamstring muscles ; trace the perforating and anastomotic arteries from the front of the thigh ; and clean the branches of the great sciatic nerve to the muscles. Muscles. The muscles behind the femur are flexors of the knee- joint. They reach from the pelvis to the bones of the leg, and are named hamstrings from their cord-like appearance on the sides of the ham. They are three in number, viz., biceps, semitendinosus, and semimembranosus. The first of these lies on the outer, and the others on the inner side of the popliteal space. The biceps (fig. 199, d) has two heads of origin, long and short, which are attached to the pelvis and the femur. The long head arises from the upper and inner impression on the ischial tuberosity, in common with the semitendinosus muscle. The short head is fixed to the femur below the gluteus maximus, viz., to all the linea aspera, and to the upper three-fourths of the line leading to the outer condyle, as well as to the external intermuscular septum. The fibres end below in a tendon, which is inserted into the head of the fibula by two slips which embrace the external lateral ligament ; and a slight piece is prolonged to the head of the tibia. The muscle is superficial, except at the origin, where it is covered by the gluteus maximus ; it rests on the upper end of the semimem- branosus, on the great sciatic nerve, and on the adductor magnus muscle. On the inner side are the semitendinosus and semimem- branosus as far as the ham. Its tendon gives an offset to the deep fascia of the limb. Action. It can bend the knee if the leg-bones are not fixed, and afterwards rotate out the tibia ; and the long head will extend the bent hip-joint when the knee is straight. The leg being supported on the ground, the long head will assist in balancing and erecting the pelvis ; and the short head will draw down the femur so as to bend the knee in stooping. The semitendinosus (fig. 199, e) is a slender muscle and receives its name from its appearance. It arises from the tuberosity of the ischium with the long head of the biceps, and by fleshy fibres from the tendon of that muscle. Inferiorly it is inserted into the