565 SYMPATHETIC NERVE. the uterus and vagina in the female, and is united with offsets of situation; the third and fourth sacral nerves. Numerous ganglia are found in h°w formed; the plexus, especially at the points of union of the spinal and sympathetic nerves. Offsets. From each plexus offsets are furnished along the branches offsets to of the internal iliac artery to the viscera of the pelvis, and the genital 0f th^ma^e, organs : these form secondary plexuses, and have the same name as viz-> the vessels on which they are placed. The inferior hemorrhoidal plexus is an offset from the back of to the the plexus to the rectum, and joins the sympathetic on the superior hemorrhoidal artery (p. 483). The vesical plexus contains large offsets, with many white-fibred to the or spinal nerves, and passes forwards to the side and neck of the 1' bladder. It gives one plexus to the vesicula seminalis, and another to the vas deferens. The prostatic plexus leaves the front of the pelvic plexus, and to the pro- supplies the substance of the prostate. At the front of the prostate Pe^^Ud an offset (cavernous) is continued onwards to the dorsum of the penis, to supply the cavernous structure. On the penis the cavernous nerves join the pudic nerve. In the female there are the following additional plexuses for the offsets in supply of the viscera peculiar to that sex :— the female' Ovarian plexus. The chief nerves to the ovary are derived from to the the renal and aortic plexuses (p. 483), and accompany the artery of ovrary* that body ; but the uterine nerves supply some filaments to it. Vaginal nerves. The nerves of the vagina are large, and are not to the plexiform, but consist in greater part of spinal nerve-fibres ; they vagma' end in the lower part of the tube. The uterine nerves are furnished to the uterus with only a small and to the admixture of the spinal nerves : they ascend along the side of the 1 uterus, and consist of long slender filaments without ganglia or communications. The Fallopian tube receives its branches from the uterine nerves. Some few nerves surrounding the arteries of the uterus are plexi- form and ganglionic. The LYMPHATIC GLANDS OF THE PELVIS form One chain in front Chain of pel- of the sacrum, and another along the internal iliac vessels : their vic glands» efferent ducts join the lumbar glands. Into these glands the deep lymphatics of the penis, those of the genital organs in the female, entering106* and the lymphatics of the viscera and wall of the pelvis are col- them, lected. Section V. ANATOMY OF THE VISCERA OF THE MALE PELVIS. Directions. The bladder and the bodies at its base, viz., the vesicula} seminales, and the prostate gland, are to be taken first for examina- tion.