BEANCHES OF INTERNAL ILIAC. 559 b. The branches of the anterior portion of the internal iliac artery Branches are the following :— j5£t*erior The superior vesical artery is the imperfectly obliterated portion upper of the foetal hypogastric artery. It divides into three or four vesical, branches, which ramify over the apex and body of the bladder: the lowest of these is sometimes called the middle vesical branch. The inferior vesical artery often arises in common with the branch Lower to the rectum. It is distributed to the base of the bladder, the vesical vesiculse seminales, and the prostate. A small offset from this artery, or from the upper vesical, is furnished to the vas deferens. The vaginal artery (fig. 171, e) of the female takes the place of or vaginal, the inferior vesical of the male. It descends on the vagina, and ramifies in its wall as low as the outer orifice. This branch is often given off by the uterine artery. The middle hcemorrhoidal artery commonly arises from the inferior Middle vesical (or vaginal), or from the pudic trunk. It is spent on the ^j1^" anterior and lower part of the rectum, and anastomoses with the other hemorrhoidal arteries. The obturator artery (fig. 172, k) is directed forwards below Obturator the brim of the pelvis to the aperture at the top of the thyroid courses foramen : passing through that opening it ends in two branches, across which ramify on the membrane closing the thyroid foramen, relvis - beneath the obturator externus muscle. In the pelvis the artery offsets in" has its companion nerve above, and vein below it ; and it gives Pelvis; origin to the following small branches :— The iliac branch enters the iliac fossa to supply the bone and the iliac branch: iliacus muscle ; it anastomoses with the ilio-lumbar artery. The pubic■branch (fig. 143, /) ascends on the posterior aspect ofpuhic the pubis, and communicates with the corresponding branch of the ranc " opposite side, and with an offset from the epigastric artery. Sometimes the obturator takes origin from the epigastric, or the external iliac artery. The sciatic artery (fig. 172, n) is the next largest branch to the Sciatic gluteal, and is continued over the pyriformis muscle and the sacral artery plexus to the lower part of the great sacro-sciatic foramen, where it in the pelvis, issues between the pyriformis and the coccygeus muscles. External to the pelvis it divides into branches beneath the gluteus maximus, and outside and is distributed to the buttock : in the pelvis it supplies the lt- pyriformis and coccygeus muscles. The internal pudic artery (fig. 172, o) supplies the perineum and Pudic the genital organs, and has nearly the same relations in the pelvis ttofpeMs: as the sciatic. It accompanies the sciatic artery, though external to it, and leaves the pelvis between the pyriformis and coccygeus. At the back of the pelvis it winds over the ischial spine of the hip- bone, and enters the perineal space (p. 421). The artery gives some unimportant offsets in the pelvis, and frequently the middle some small hsemorrhoidal branch arises from it. offsets. Accessory pudic (R, Quain). The pudic artery is sometimes smaller An acces- than usual, and fails to supply some of its ordinary perineal branches, branch"*10 especially the terminal ones to the penis. In those cases the