DISSECTION OF THE SUBMAXILLARY REGION. 98 has roots from the fifth, facial and sympa- thetic, gives branches to gland. Chorda tym- pani; destination. Twelfth nerve above hyoid hone. Its branches supply mus- cles of tongue. Wharton's duct opens by frsenum linguae. Sublingual gland forms a pro- minence be- low tongue, on the hyo-glossus muscle immediataly above the deep part of the submaxillary gland, and is attached by two or three filaments to the lingual nerve. Connections with nerves—roots. The fibres of the sensory root are derived from the lingual, and of the motor root from the chorda tympani nerves, both joining the upper part of the ganglion. The sympathetic root comes from the plexus on the facial artery. Branches. From the lower part of the ganglion five or six small offsets descend to the submaxillary gland ; and from the fore part other filaments are given to the mucous membrane of the mouth and Wharton's duct. Chorda tympani. Joining the lingual nerve close below its origin (p. 92), the chorda tympani accompanies that trunk, but can be easily separated from it nearly as far as the tongue. Beyond that point its fibres are mixed with those of the lingual nerve. Near the submaxillary gland an offset is sent to the submaxillary ganglion. The hypoglossal or twelfth nerve in the submaxillary region is directed forwards across the lower part of the hyo-glossus muscle and under cover of the mylo-hyoid. At the anterior border of the hyo-glossus it enters the fibres of the genio-glossus, spreading out and dividing into numerous branches as it disappears. Branches. While resting on the hyo-glossus, the twelfth nerve furnishes offsets to the stylo-glossus, hyo-glossus and genio-hyoid muscles, as well as one or two communicating filaments to the lingual nerve. Its terminal branches, within the genio-glossus, supply that muscle and the intrinsic muscles of the tongue. The lingual branches are long and slender, and some of them may be traced forwards to the tip of the tongue. The glossopharyngeal nerve (fig. 24,4), appearing between the two carotid arteries, courses forwards over the stylo-pharyngeus, and ends under the hyo-glossus in branches for the tongue. (See the DISSECTION CF THE TONGUE.) The duct of the submaxillary gland (fig. 24,3), Wharton's duct, issues from the deep part of the glandular mass turning round the border of the mylo-hyoid muscle. About two inches in length, it is directed upwards and forwards on the hyo-glossus muscle, and over the lingual nerve, to open on the centre of an eminence by the side of the frsenum linguae : the opening in the mouth will be seen if a bristle be passed along the duct. The deep part of the sub- maxillary gland extends along the side of the duct, reaching, in some instances, the sublingual gland. The sublingual gland (fig. 24, n) is an almond-shaped body with its longest diameter, which measures about an inch and a half, directed from before backwards. It lies beneath the fore part of the tongue, between the genio-glossus muscle and the lower jaw, and resting on the mylo-hyoid. Its upper border is covered by the mucous membrane, which is raised into a fold along the floor of the mouth over the gland; and its inner end touches the one of the opposite side behind the symphysis of the jaw.