DISSECTION OF THE EAR. 746 Dissection of them in fresh bone. perilymph, and are themselves filled with a fluid called the endolymph. In them the ramifications of the auditory nerve are distributed. Dissection. The delicate internal sacs of the ear, with their nerves, cannot be dissected except on a temporal bone which has been softened in acid, and afterwards put in spirit. The previous in- structions for the dissection of the osseous labyrinth will guide the student to the situation of the membranous structures within it, but the surrounding softened material must be removed with great care. The utricle (fig. 240, d), or the common sinus, is the Fig. 240. not free in cavity; have ampullse, which re- ceive the nerves. Saccule has com- munications with utricle and cochlea; passag macula and otoliths. larger of the two sacs, and is situate at the posterior and upper part of the vestibule, opposite the fovea hemiellip- tica in the roof. It is trans- versely oval in form, and con- nected with it posteriorly are three looped tubes, which occupy the semicircular canals. At the fore part of the sac is a thickened and more opaque part of its wall—ma- cula acustica (e), where the nerves enter; and opposite this, in the interior, is a small mass of calcareous granules or otoliths. The MEMBRANOUS SEMI- CIRCULAR canals (g) are about one-third of the diameter of the osseous tubes, along the convex border of which they lie, being closely attached to the periosteal lining of the bony wall ; and the remaining space is filled by perilymph. Each is marked at one end by an ampulla, which is relatively of large size and nearly fills the osseous case. Two are blended at one end, like the canals they occupy, so that they communicate with the utricle by five openings. At each ampullary enlargement there is a transverse projection (crista acustica) into the interior of the tube; and at that spot a branch of the auditory nerve enters the wall. The saccule (fig. 240, a) is a smaller and rounder cyst than the utricle, in front of which it is placed, in the hollow of the fovea hemispherica. It communicates with the utricle through the ductus endolymphaticus, and is continous below by a short and small e (canalis reuniens; c) with the canal of the cochlea. Like the other sac, it possesses a macula (6) and otoliths where the nerves enter. * Petrous bone partly removed to show the membranous labyrinth in place (Breschet). a. Saccule; b, its macula, c. Ductus reuniens. d. Utricle; e, its macula. /. Ampullary enlargement of a semicircular canal, g.