SCIATIC AND PUDIC VESSELS. 639 Dissection. The pyriformis may be cut across and raised towards Dissect the sacrum, to allow the dissector to follow upwards the sciatic and chiefves- pudic vessels, and to trace the accompanying nerves to their origin seis and o ii t i nerves. from the sacral plexus. A small nerve to the obturator internus (fig. 197,5) and gemellus andmus- superior (7) is to be sought in the fat at the lower border of the branches, plexus. A branch to the quadratus and inferior gemellus (6) may be found by raising the trunk of the great sciatic nerve ; but this will be followed to its termination after the muscles it supplies have been seen. Sciatic and Pudic Vessels. The arteries on the back of the ^/from* pelvis, below the pyriformis muscle, are branches of the internal the iliac, iliac (p. 559). The sciatic artery (fig. 195, b) supplies the buttock below the Sciatic gluteal. After escaping from the pelvis below the pyriformis, it arteiy- descends with the small sciatic nerve over the gemelli and obturator internus muscles, as far as the lower border of the gluteus maximus r course here the artery gives off many branches with the superficial offsets and ending; of its companion nerve; and much reduced in size, it is continued with that nerve along the back of the thigh. In this course it furnishes the following branches :— branches;— a. The coccygeal branch, arising close to the pelvis, perforates the coccygeal; great sacro-sciatic ligament and the gluteus maximus, and ramifies in this muscle, and on the back of the sacrum and coccyx. b. The branch to the great sciatic nerve (comes nervi ischiadici) is branch to . . ... sciatic very slender, and entering the nerve near the pelvis, ramifies in it nerve; along the thigh. c. Muscular branches enter the gluteus maximus, -the upper muscular; gemellus, and obturator internus ; and by means of a branch to the quadratus, which passes with the nerve of the same name beneath the gemelli and obturator internus, it gives offsets to the hip-joint and the inferior gemellus. d. Anastomotic branch (fig. 195, e). Varying in size, this artery is anasto- directed outwards to the root of the great trochanter, where it motia anastomoses with the internal circumflex and first perforating arteries. The pudic artery (fig. 195, d) belongs to the perineum and the Pudic genital organs : it is smaller than the sciatic, internal to which it artery lies. Only the small part of the vessel which winds over the ischial ?™ssestlie spine is seen on the back of the pelvis, for it enters the perineal spine; space through the small sacro-sciatic foramen, and is there dis- tributed (p. 421). It supplies a small branch over the back of the sacrum, which offsets, anastomoses with the gluteal and sciatic arteries ; and a twig from it accompanies the nerve to the obturator internus muscle. The veins with the sciatic and pudic arteries receive contributing Veins, twigs corresponding with the branches of those arteries at the back of the pelvis, and open into the internal iliac vein. Nerves. The nerves appearing at the back of the pelvis, below Nerves come the pyriformis, are derived from the sacral plexus (p. 562) ; the pi^xus^1^