680 DISSECTION OF THE FOOT. junction with inner plantar; distribution on the toes. Ending of tlie dorsal artery of the foot; its digital branches, on the digits. External plantar nerve ends in the deep muscles : like ulnar Dissection. Transverse metatarsal ligament. Dissect the last layer of muscles. Fourth layer of muscles. The last two are joined by superficial digital branches of the internal plantar at the root of the toes. On the sides of the toes the disposition of the arteries is like that of the digital in the hand. They extend to the end, where they unite in an arch, and give offsets to the sides and ball of the toe ; and the artery on the second digit anastomoses at the end of the toe with a branch from the anterior tibial artery. Near the front of both the metatarsal and the next phalanx, they form anastomotic loops beneath the flexor tendons, from which the phalangeal articu- lations are supplied. The dorsal artery of the foot (fig. 209, e) enters the sole at the posterior part of the first (inner) metatarsal space, and ends by inosculating with the plantar arch. By a large digital artery it furnishes branches to both sides of the great toe and half the next, in the same manner as the radial artery in the hand is distributed to one digit and a half. The digital branch (/) extends to the front of the first inter- osseous space, and divides into collateral branches (h) for the con- tiguous sides of the great toe and the next. Near the head of the metatarsal bone it sends inwards, beneath the flexor muscles, a digital branch (g) for the inner side of the great toe. The arteries have the same arrangement along the toes as the other digital branches ; and that to the second digit anastomoses at the end with a branch of the plantar arch. The deep part of the external plantar nerve (fig. 209, 4) accompanies the arch of the artery, and ends internally in the ad- ductor hallucis. It furnishes branches to all the interossei, to the transversus pedis, and to the outer three lumbrical muscles (Brooks). This nerve corresponds with the deep portion of the ulnar nerve in the hand. Dissection. It will be needful to remove the transverse muscle, to see a ligament across the heads of the metatarsal bones. The transverse metatarsal ligament is a strong fibrous band, like that in the hand (p. 304), which connects together all the meta- tarsal bones at their anterior extremity. A thin fascia covering the interosseous muscles is attached to its hinder edge. It is con- cealed by the transversus pedis, and by the tendons, vessels, and nerves of the toes. Dissection. To complete the dissection of the ]ast layer of muscles, the flexor brevis minimi digiti may be detached and thrown for- wards. Dividing then the metatarsal ligament between the bones, the knife is to be carried directly backwards for a short distance in the centre of each interosseous space, except the first, in order that the two interosseous muscles may be separated from each other. All the interossei are visible in the sole of the foot. The fascia covering the muscles should be taken away if any remains, and the branches of the external plantar nerve to them should be dissected out. Fourth Layer of Muscles (fig. 209). In the fourth and last layer of the foot are contained the interosseous muscles, and the tendons of the tibialis posticus and peroneus longus.