700 DISSECTION OF THE LEG. position to femur. Articulation of tibia and fibula. Dissection of the liga- ments. Upper ar- ticulation, by anterior and poste- rior band. Synovial sac. Lower ar- ticulation has anterior, posterior, inferior, and interof seous liga- Interosse- ous mem- brane be- tween the shafts: attach- ments ; apertures. most part the knee-pan articular surface is raised above the trochlea of the femur, which it touches only at the upper edge by its lower transverse facet. Peroneo-Tibial Articulations. The tibia and fibula are united by ligamentous bands at the extremities where they touch, and by an interosseous membrane between the shafts of the bones. Dissection. The muscles are to be taken away from the front and back of the interosseous membrane ; and the loose tissue is to be removed from a small band in front of, and behind, the upper and lower ends of the tibia and fibula. The upper articulation has very slight movement, and the structures between the ends of the bones are two small bands, anterior and posterior. The anterior ligament extends over the joint from the outer tube- rosity of the tibia to the head of the fibula. The posterior ligament, thinner than the anterior, is attached to the bones behind the joint: it is covered by the tendon of the popliteus muscle and a prolon- gation of the synovial membrane of the knee-joint. The articular surfaces are covered with cartilage ; and the synovial cavity of the articulation is only separated by the thin posterior liga- ment from that of the knee-joint. The lower articulation possesses anterior, posterior, and inferior bands, together with an interosseous ligament (inferior) between the ends of the bones. The anterior ligament reaches obliquely from the lower end of the tibia to the fibula ; and the posterior has attachments behind the articulation similar to those of the band in front. The inferior ligament closes the notch at the back between the contiguous ends of the tibia and fibula, and consists of transverse yellowish fibres distinct from the posterior ligament. It is fixed on one side to the end of the fibula above the pit; and on the other it is inserted into the contiguous part of the tibia, and into the posterior edge of the articular surface, so as to assist in deepening the hollow into which the astragalus is received. This band cannot be seen until the astragalus has been disarticulated after the examination of the ankle-joint. The inferior interosseous ligament consists of strong bundles of fibres passing obliquely downwards and outwards between the adjacent rough surfaces at the lower ends of the two bones. This also may be seen after the dissection of the ankle-joint, by sawing longitudinally the ends of the leg-bones. The interosseous membrane fills the interval between the bones of the leg, and serves as an aponeurotic partition between the muscles on the front and back of the limb. Its fibres are directed for the most part downwards from the tibia to the fibula ; but a few cross in the opposite direction. Internally it is fixed to the outer edge of the tibia ; and externally, to the prominent interosseous ridge on the inner side of the fibula. In its upper part, close to the neck of the fibula, is an oval opening about an inch in length, which transmits the anterior tibial vessels ;