500 DISSECTION OF THE ABDOMEN. cuts may be previously made through the peritoneal coat. The air enters the wall of the intestine where the peritoneal covering is injured, and spreads through the whole gut ; but opposite the solitary glands, and the patches of Peyer, the mucous coat is more closely connected with the contiguous structures, and the subjacent portion will not be distended with the air. The piece of the in- testine may be examined when it is dry. Arteries of Vessels of the intestine. The arteries are derived from the intestinal the intes- tine ; Fig. 155.* A B branches of the superior mesenteric trunk (p. 479), and enter the wall of the intestine at the attached border. They run at first beneath the serous coat, round the side of the bowel, and give oft' numerous ramifications, which anastomose freely together, and per- forate the muscular coat, supplying branches to its substance. Finally, they break up into very minute twigs in the submucous layer, veins; before entering the mucous coat. The veins have their usual resemblance to the companion arteries. absorbents; The absorbents (lacteals) leave the intestine with the vessels and pass to the mesenteric glands (p. 481). and nerves. Nerves of the small intestine come from the upper mesenteric plexus, and entering the coats by the side of the arteries, form plexuses with interspersed ganglia. Two coats Structure of the common bile-duct. The bile-duct consists of an duct*-'blk external, strong fibrous layer, and of an internal, mucous coat. On the surface of the inner membrane are the openings of numerous glands. branched mucous glands, which are embedded in the fibrous coat ; some of them are aggregated together, and are visible with a lens. LARGE INTESTINE. Extent of The large intestine is the part of the alimentary canal between the gut; tlie termination of the ileum and the anus. Its division, and its attachment by peritoneum to the abdominal wall, have been de- scribed (p. 469). * A. A piece of mucous membrane enlarged, with its villi and tubules. Part of a patch of Peyer's gland is also represented with the follicles (a), each having a ring of tubes at the circumference, b. A " solitary gland " of the small intestine, also enlarged, covered by villi (Boehm).