SUPERFICIAL FASCIA OF GROIN. 437 vessels from the tendon of the external oblique muscle. This stratum, like the preceding, is to be traced around the cord to the scrotum ; and as the student follows it downwards, he will find it connected with Poupart's ligament, and blended with the fascia lata close below that structure. The superficial fascia is a single layer over the greater part of the Superficial abdomen ; but in the groin it is divided into a subcutaneous and a .g dividetl deeper stratum by the vessels and the glands. into two The subcutaneous layer contains the fat, and varies therefore in layers- appearance and thickness in different bodies ; for it is sometimes tenuous*0"* divisible into strata, while at others it is very thin, and somewhat j^yer con- membranous near the thigh. It is continuous with the fatty covering of the thigh and abdomen ; and when traced to the limb, it is separated from Poupart's ligament beneath by the superficial vessels and glands. Internally it is continued to the penis and except in scrotum, where it changes its adipose tissue for involuntary mus- ^d scro- cular fibre ; and after investing the testicle, it is prolonged to the turn, perineum. The deeper layer (fascia of Scarpa) is thinner and more mem- Deeper * * lsv^r is tliiu branous than the other, and is closely united to the tendon of the and mem- external oblique by fibrous bands along the linea alba. Like the branous; subcutaneous part, this layer is continued upwards on the abdomen, meters and" and inwards to the penis and the scrotum, through which it is pro- disposition ; longed to the perineum, where it has attachments to the subjacent parts, as before specified (p. 423). Towards the limb, it ends a t-w j t • • ■ • i and ends on little below Poupart s ligament by joining the fascia lata across the fascia lata. front of the thigh. Urine effused in the perineum from rupture of the urethra will Attach- be directed through the scrotum and along the spermatic cord to mine course" the abdomen (p. 424). From the arrangement of the deeper layer u^use'1 of the fascia across the thigh, it is evident that the fluid cannot pass down the limb, though its progress over the front of the abdomen is uninterrupted. In the female the superficial fascia of the groin is separable into Fascia in two layers, and the disposition of each is nearly the same as in the the temale- male ; but the part that is continued to the scrotum in the one sex, enters the labium in the other. In the female the round ligament of the uterus is lost in it. Cutaneous Nerves. The skin of the abdomen is supplied cutaneous mainly by the lower intercostal nerves : thus, the cutaneous branches nerves along the side of the belly are offsets from five or six of those nerves ; and the cutaneous branches along the front are the termi- are derived nal parts of the same trunks. Two other cutaneous offsets from the from two , | , .,. , . . , sources, lumbar plexus, viz., llio-uypogastric and liio-ingumal, appear at the lower part of the abdomen. The lateral cutaneous nerves of the abdomen emerge be- Lateral tween the digitations of the external oblique muscle, in a line with the same set of nerves on the thorax ; and the lowest are the most whiCh posterior. As soon as they reach the surface they divide, with the divide into exception of the last, into an anterior and a posterior branch :—