DISSECTION OF THE FOOT. 672 divides into tendons for four toes: insertion; relations Abductor of the little toe : origin and insertion ; relations use as abductor and flexor. Dissect the next mus- cular layer, and plantar vessels and Two plantar arteries: inner and miter. internal small; course and ending. Branches to muscles toes, where they are inserted into the middle phalanges. In the sheath of the toe the tendon of this muscle lies at first (in this position of the foot) on the long flexor; opposite the centre of the metatarsal phalanx it is slit for the passage of the other, and it is attached by two processes to the sides of the middle phalanx. The short flexor of the toes is contained in a sheath of the plantar fascia, and occupies the middle of the foot. It conceals the tendon of the long flexor of the toes, the accessory muscle, and the external plantar vessels and nerve. Action. It bends the first and second phalangeal joints of the four smaller toes, like the flexor sublimis in the upper limb, and approximates the toes at same time. The abductor minimi digiti (fig. 208, c) has a wide origin behind from the small outer tubercle of the os calcis, from the adjacent part of the inner tubercle, and from the plantar fascia and the external in- termuscular septum. It ends anteriorly in a tendon which is inserted into the outer side of the base of the metatarsal phalanx of the little toe. The muscle lies along the outer border of the foot, and conceals the flexor accessorius, and the tendon of the peroneus longus. On its inner side are the external plantar vessels and nerves. Sometimes a part of the muscle is fixed into the projection of the fifth meta- tarsal bone. Action. Though it can abduct the little toe from the others, as the name signifies, its chief use is to bend the metatarso-phalangeal joint. Dissection. To bring into view the second layer of muscles and the plantar vessels and nerves, the muscles already examined must be reflected (fig. 207). Cut through the flexor perforatus at the os calcis, and as it is raised, notice a branch of nerve and artery to it. Dividing the abductor minimi digiti near its origin, and turning it to the outer side of the foot, seek its nerve and vessel close to the calcaneum. The abductor hallucis can be drawn aside if it is necessary, but it may remain uncut till afterwards. Next, the internal plantar vessels and nerve are to be followed forwards to their termination, and backwards to their origin ; and the external plantar vessels and nerve, the tendons of the long- flexors of the toes, the accessory muscle, and the small lumbricales, should be freed from fat. The Plantar Arteries (fig. 207) are the terminal branches of the posterior tibial trunk, and supply digital offsets to the toes. They are two in number, and are named external and internal from their relative position in the sole of the foot. Of the two, the external is the larger, and forms the plantar arch. The internal artery (a) is inconsiderable in size, and accom- panies the internal plantar nerve, under cover of the abductor hallucis, as far as the middle of the foot, where it ends in four super- ficial digital branches. (Illustrations of Dissections, p. 437.) Branches. The artery furnishes muscular branches, like the nerve, to the abductor hallucis, flexor perforatus, and the flexor brevis