MUSCLES OF THE MOUTH. 25 the central part of the nose is depressed and the chin raised by means of the fleshy slips connected with those parts. The levator labii superioris (fig. 6,6) extends vertically from Elevator of the lower margin of the orbit to the orbicularis oris. It arises from uPPerllP- the upper maxillary and malar bones above the infraorbital fora- men, and blends interiorly with the orbicularis oris. Near the orbit the muscle is overlapped by the orbicularis palpebrarum, but below that spot it is subcutaneous. By its inner side it joins the common Relations, elevator of the ala of the nose and upper lip ; and to its outer side lie the zygomatic muscles, the small one joining it. Beneath it are the infraorbital vessels and nerve. Action. By the action of this muscle the upper lip is raised, and Use. the skin of the cheek is bulged below the eye. The DEPRESSOR LABII INFERIORIS (fig. 6, 12) is opposite the Depressor of elevator of the upper lip, and has much yellow fat mixed with its lower lip* fibres. The muscle has a wide origin from a depression on the front of the lower jaw, reaching outwards from near the symphysis to a little beyond the mental foramen ; ascending thence it is united with the orbicularis in the lower lip. Its inner border joins in the lip the muscle of the opposite side; and its outer is overlapped by the depressor anguli oris. Action. If one muscle contracts, the half of the lip of the same Use. side is depressed and everted; but by the use of both muscles, the whole lip is lowered and turned outwards, and rendered tense at the centre. The levator menti (levator labii inferioris) is a small muscle e evator of on the side of the frsenum of the lower lip, which is opposite the chm' depressor of the ala of the nose in the upper lip. When the lip has been everted and the mucous membrane removed, the muscle will be seen to arise from the incisor fossa of the lower jaw, and to descend to its insertion into the integument of the chin. Its posi- tion is internal to the depressor of the lip and the attachment of the orbicularis. Action. It indents the skin of the chin opposite its insertion, and Use. assists in raising the lower lip. The levator anguli oris (fig. 6, f) has well-marked fibres, Elevator of and is partly concealed by the levator labii superioris. Arising from the anglc the canine fossa below the infraorbital foramen, its fibres spread out towards the angle of the mouth, where they are superficial to the buccinator, and mix with the rest of the muscles, but the greater number are continued into the depressor anguli oris and the lower joins Up depressor. Action. This muscle elevates the corner of the mouth, and acts Use. as an antagonist to the depressor. The depressor anguli oris (fig. 6, 13) is triangular in shape. Depressor It arises from the oblique line on the outer surface of the lower jaw : of angle- and ascending to the angle of the mouth, its fibres join those of the elevator muscle. The depressor conceals the mental branches of the inferior dental vessels and nerve. It is united at its origin with the platysma myoides, and near its insertion with the risorius muscle.