219 THIRD VENTRICLE. thalamus : on it, close to the middle line, are the two choroid and carries plexuses of the third ventricle ; and along each side is the choroid p^si. plexus of the lateral ventricle. The choroid plexus of the lateral ventricle (fig. 64, /) is the red, p^°™*dof somewhat rounded and fringed margin of the velum interpositum, the lateral which projects into the lateral ventricle, extending from the foramen ventl'lcle- of Monro to the extremity of the descending cornu. Its lower part is larger than the upper. The epithelium lining the ventricle is continued over the choroid plexus, but it loses its cilia in this situation. The right and left choroid plexuses are continuous at the anterior extremity of the velum, where they are similarly excluded from the foramina of Monro by the epithelial lining.* Vessels of the velum. Small arteries have been already traced to Vessels of the velum and the choroid plexus from the cerebral and cerebellar the velum- arteries (pp. 184, 185) : they are three on each side, and supply the Arteries; surrounding cerebral substance. The veins of the choroid plexus veins; receive branches from the ventricle, and end in the following. Veins of Galen. Along the centre of the velum are placed two with veins large veins with this name ; they begin at the foramen of Monro, of Galen- by the union of branches from the corpus striatum and the choroid jnexus. Lying side by side in the membrane, they are usually united into one at the posterior part of the velum ; and through this they join the straight sinus. Dissection. When the velum interpositum has been raised and Dissection, thrown backwards, the third ventricle will be opened (fig. 65). In reflecting the piece of pia mater the student must be careful not to detach the pineal body (g) behind, which is surrounded by the membrane. On the under surface of the velum are seen the choroid plexuses of the third ventricle. The choroid plexuses of the third ventricle are two short and narrow cJ*°™ids of fringed bodies below the velum, which resemble the like structures third in the lateral ventricle. ventricle. The third ventricle is the narrow interval between the optic ™^dicle thalami (fig. 65). Its situation is in the median plane of the cerebrum, below the level of the lateral ventricles, with which it is near base • -i • i it ,>ii- t of brain, communicates ; and it reaches to the base ol the brain. Its boundaries and communications are the following :— The roof is formed by the velum interpositum with the choroid Roof. plexuses, above which is the fornix. The floor is very oblique Floor- from behind forwards, so that the depth of the cavity is about three-quarters of an inch in front and half as much behind : its hinder part is formed by the united tegmenta ; and in front of these it corresponds with the parts at the base of the brain, which lie between the crura cerebri (fig. 59), viz., posterior perforated space, corpora albicantia, tuber cinereum with the infundibulum, and the optic commissure. On the sides of the cavity are situate Icirts on tli6 the optic thalami (b) and the anterior pillars of the fornix. In front sides, * Particles of brain-sand, like that in the pineal body, are sometimes pre- sent in the choroid plexus.