323 ARTICULATIONS OF CARPUS. The articulations of the carpal bones with each other Dissection will be prepared by taking away all the tendons from the hand, and °f carpal cleaning carefully the connecting ligamentous bands. Two distinct ligaments from the pisiform bone to the unciform and fifth meta- carpal are to be defined in the palm. At the same time the ligamentous bands uniting the metacarpal and meta- with the carpal bones, and with one another should be dissected. joints! Bones of the first row (fig. 98). The semilunar bone is united to How first the scaphoid and pyramidal by dorsal (d) and palmar transverse united, bands ; as well as by small interosseous ligaments at the upper part of the contiguous surfaces. The pisiform bone is articulated to the front of the pyramidal Separate by a distinct capsule and synovial sac. It has farther two special pliformS 01 ligaments ; one of these is attached to the process of the unciform, bone' and the other to the base of the fifth metacarpal bone. The bones of the second row (fig. 98) are connected together in the {j^J^^f same way as those of the first, viz., by a dorsal (i) and a palmar band of fibres from one bone to another. Between Fig- 98.* the contiguous rough sur- faces of the several bones are interosseous ligaments, one in each interval. Movement. Only a small degree of gliding motion is permitted between the different carpal bones, in consequence of the flat- tened articular surfaces, and the short ligaments uniting one to another; and this is less in the se- cond than in the first row. One row with another (transverse carpal joint; fig. 98). The two rows of carpal bones are connected by an anterior and posterior, and two lateral ligaments. The anterior ligament (p) consists of strong fibres, which for the anterior, most part converge from the three bones of the first row to the os magnum. The posterior ligament is thinner and looser ; and its posterior, strongest fibres are transverse. Of the lateral ligaments the external (k) is the better marked, and and lateral extends between os trapezium and scaphoid bone ; the internal (I) passes from the pyramidal to the unciform bone. ligaments. * Articulations of the carpal bones, the joint between the two rows being opened behind, a. Scaphoid bone. b. Semilunar, c. Pyramidal, d. Dorsal transverse bands between those bones, e. Trapezium. /. Trapezoid, g. Os magnum, h. Unciform, i. Dorsal transverse bands joining the bones, k. External lateral ligament of the intercarpal joint. I. Internal lateral ligament, p. Anterior ligament. T 2