75 COMMON CAROTID ARTERY. trachea and larynx, gradually diverging from the vessel on the opposite side in consequence of the increasing size of the larynx; and its position will be marked by a line from the sterno-clavicular Situation. articulation to a point midway between the angle of the jaw and the mastoid process. Contained in a sheath of cervical fascia with the internal jugular vein and the pneumo-gastric nerve, the carotid artery has the follow- ing connections with the surrounding parts :—As high as the cricoid Parts cover- cartilage the vessel is deeply placed, and is concealed by the common mg 1 ' coverings of the skin, platysma, and fasciae ; and by the muscles at the lower part of the neck, viz., sterno-mastoid (sternal origin), sterno-hyoid, omo-hyoid, and sterno-thyroid. But from the cricoid cartilage to its termination the artery is more superficial, being covered only by the sterno-mastoid with the common investments of the neck. The vessel rests mostly on the longus colli and scalenus beneath it, anticus muscles, but close to its ending on the rectus capitis anticus major. To the inner side of the carotid lie the trachea and larynx, and on its the oesophagus and pharynx, and the thyroid body, the last over- Sldes' lapping the vessel by the side of the larynx. Along the outer side of the carotid sheath is a chain of lymphatic glands. Veins. The large internal jugular vein lies on the outer side of Position of the artery, being closely applied to it in the upper part of its course, s' but separated from it below by an interval about half an inch wide : on the left side the vein is nearer to the artery below, as will be afterwards seen. One or two superior thyroid veins cross the upper end of the arterial trunk; and opposite the thyroid body another small vein (middle thyroid) is directed backwards over the vessel. Near the clavicle the anterior jugular vein passes outwards in front of the artery, but is separated from it by the sterno-hyoid and sterno-thyroid muscles. Arteries. Offsets of the superior thyroid artery descend over the of arteries, upper part of the sheath ; and the inferior thyroid crosses behind it near the lower border of the cricoid cartilage. Nerves. The descendens noni lies in front of the artery, crossing of nerves to from the outer to the inner side, and is joined there by the com- carotld- municating branches from the cervical plexus. The pneumo-gastric lies within the sheath, behind and between the artery and the vein. The sympathetic cord and branches rest on the spine behind the sheath. All the nerves above mentioned have a longitudinal direc- tion ; but the inferior laryngeal or recurrent crosses obliquely inwards beneath the sheath, towards the lower end of the artery. Branches of carotid. As a rule, the common carotid artery does Branches not furnish any collateral branch, though it is very common for the none' superior thyroid to spring from its upper end. At the terminal bifurcation into the two carotids the artery is slightly bulged. The internal jugular vein extends upwards to the base of the internal skull, but only the part of it that accompanies the common carotid ^}3l3X veiQ artery is now seen. Placed on the outer side of the artery, the vein ends below by uniting with the subclavian to form the innominate trunk. Its proximity to the carotid is not equally close throughout, for at