SUPERFICIAL VESSELS AND GLANDS. 601 A small nerve, the ilio-inguinal, is to be sought on the inner side and nerves, of the saphenous vein, close to the pubis ; and a branch of the genito-crural nerve may be found a little outside the vein. Superficial Vessels. The small cutaneous arteries at the top The arteries of the thigh are the first branches of the femoral trunk, they pierce f™™^1}6 the deep fascia (fascia lata), and are distributed to the integuments and the glands of the groin and neighbourhood. The EXTERNAL PUDIC ARTERY (superior; fig. 187, b) crosses the One external spermatic cord in its course inwards, and ends in the integuments of f^ery; the penis and scrotum, where it anastomoses with offsets of the in- ternal pudic artery. Another external pudic branch (inferior ; p. 612) pierces the fascia another lata at the inner border of the thigh, and ramifies also in the the fascia, scrotum. In the female both branches supply the labium pudendi. The SUPERFICIAL EPIGASTRIC ARTERY (c) passes Over Poupart's Superficial ligament to the abdomen (p. 438), and communicates with branches epigast™- of the deep epigastric artery. The SUPERFICIAL CIRCUMFLEX ILIAC ARTERY (d) is the Smallest of Superficial the three branches : appearing as two or more pieces at the upper f^ac. &&* part of the thigh near the iliac crest, it is distributed in the integu- ments : it supplies an offset with the external cutaneous nerve. A vein accompanies each artery, having the same name as its com- Veins join panion vessel, and ends in the upper part of the saphenous vein, nous.aphe with the exception of that with the inferior pudic artery : these veins will be noticed subsequently (p. 602). The superficial inguinal glands (e) are arranged in two lines, inguinal One set lies across the thigh, near Poupart's ligament; and the two sets, other is situate along the side of the saphenous vein. In the lower or femoral group the glands are larger than in the upper, and the lymphatic vessels from the surface of the lower limb enter them, which The upper or abdominal group is joined by the lymphatics of the J^^,® t penis, by those of the surface of the abdomen, and by those of the lymphatics, buttock. The glands vary much in number and size ; and not unfrequently some of the longitudinal set by the side of the vein are blended together. Cribriform fascia. Beneath, and to the inner side of, the internal Cribriform saphenous vein there is a thin layer of areolar tissue on the surface fascia is of the fascia lata, which is sometimes described as a special deeper layer of the superficial fascia. This stratum is continued across the an areolar aperture in the deep fascia (saphenous opening ; fig. 187, /) through ™e™brane which the vein disappears ; and being there perforated by many saphenous large lymphatic vessels, as well as by the saphenous vein, the name openmg • cribriform fascia has been given to this part. The cribriform fascia is closely united to the outer margin of the saphenous opening ; and it is also adherent to the subjacent crural sheath of the vessels in the aperture. In a hernial protrusion through the saphenous open- relation to ing, the cribriform fascia is stretched and pushed forwards by the h™^1 tumour, and forms one of the coverings. Dissection. Now the student has observed the disposition of the Dissection superficial fascia near Poupart's ligament, he may proceed to ex- °£ jJe JSgh.