DISSECTION OF THE PERINEUM. 420 External sphincter origin insertion: layer of involuntary muscle surrounds the anus with radiating fibres. Externally it blends with the subdermic tissue outside the internal sphincter ; and internally it enters the anus and ends in the sub- mucous tissue within the sphincter. Action. This muscle draws upwards and inverts the mucous membrane of the lower end of the gut, after it has been protruded and everted in the passage of the faeces. The external sphincter (sphincter ani externus ; fig. 132, a) is a flat, orbicular muscle, which surrounds the lower end of the rectum. The fibres form ellipses around a central aperture, as in other orbicular muscles. It arises posteriorly by a fibrous band from the back of the coccyx near the tip, and by fleshy fibres on each side from the subcutaneous fatty layer. Its fibres pass for- wards to the anus, where they separate to encircle that aperture ; and they are inserted in front into the central point of the perineum, and into the superficial fascia by a fleshy slip on each side. The sphincter is close beneath the skin, and conceals partly the levator ani. The outer border projects over the ischio-rectal fossa ; and the inner is contiguous to the internal sphincter. Action. The muscle gathers into a roll the skin around the anus, and occludes the anal aperture. Commonly the fibres are in a state of involuntary slight contraction, but they may be firmly contracted under the influence of the will. The internal sphincter (sphincter ani internus ; fig. 132, c) is situate round the extremity of the intestine, internal to the preceding muscle, and its edge will be seen by removing the corrugator and the mucous membrane. The fibres of the muscle are pale, fine in texture, quite separate from the surrounding external sphincter, and encircle the anus in the form of a ring about half an inch in depth. The muscle is a thickened band of the involuntary circular fibres of the large intestine, and is not attached to the bone. Action. This sphincter assists the external in closing the anus ; and its contraction is altogether involuntary. The levator ani (fig. 132, d) can be seen only in part ; and the external sphincter may be detached from the coccyx, in order that its insertion may be more apparent. The muscle descends from its origin at the inner aspect of the hip-bone, and is inserted along the middle line from the coccyx to the central point of the perineum. The hindmost fibres are attached to the side of the coccyx ; and between that bone and the rectum the muscles of opposite sides into rectum, are united in a median tendinous line. The middle fibres are of the blended with the side of the rectum. And the anterior are joined with the opposite muscle, in front of the rectum, in the central point of the perineum. This muscle bounds the ischio-rectal fossa on the inner side, and unites with its fellow to form a fleshy layer (pelvic diaphragm), con- vex downwards, through which the rectum is transmitted. Deeper than the muscle is the recto-vesical fascia. Along the hinder border is placed the coccygeus. Internal sphincter a pale hand, is part of fibres of intestine: Insertion of levator ani into coccyx and tendon in front of it; and the centre perineum relations;