197 STRUCTURE OP MEDULLA OBLONGATA. the median plane to the restiform body, to which this name has been given. The superficial arciform fibres (fig. 58, s) have already superficial, been noticed in the description of the exterior of the medulla oblongata (p. 194). The deep arciform fibres are more numerous, and deep, and are seen over the whole area of transverse sections except in the pyramid. Some of them come to the surface on the inner side of, and through the olivary body, and join the super- ficial set. Others are deep in their whole extent, and pass outwards into the restiform body, and to the nuclei of the cuneate and slender funiculi. Internally, the arciform fibres enter the raphe, through which they are continued to the opposite half of the medulla. There they are thought to become longitudinal, but of their farther course nothing certain is known. The raphe (fig. 58, between h and I) occupies the median plane Raphe, of the medulla oblongata above the decussation of the pyramids, and consists of fibres running obliquely, longitudinally, and from before backwards, which are in part continuous with the superficial and deep arciform fibres, and in part spring from the nuclei in the floor of the fourth ventricle. Formatio reticularis. In the dorsal portion of the medulla Reticular oblongata, behind the pyramid and olivary body (fig. 58, I and k), formation- the longitudinal fibres derived from the anterior and lateral columns of the cord, decussating with the deep arciform fibres, give rise to a structure that is known as the reticular formation of the medulla. In the part of the reticular formation behind the olivary body (&) interspersed grey matter containing nerve-cells is also present. Olivary body (fig. 58, /). On removing a thin slice from the Olivary olivary body, it will be seen to consist of three parts, viz., an body' external investment of white substance, a thin grey layer—the olivary nucleus, and a central white core. The outer white layer consists mainly of transverse fibres, which belong to the superficial arciform group. The olivary nucleus or corpus dentatum is a thin j^aited capsule its nucleus, or bag, having a zigzag outline in section. Towards the surface and behind it is closed, but on the inner side it is open, forming a narrow neck, which is turned towards the raphe, and gives passage to the olivary peduncle. The central white matter fills the grey capsule, and is formed by the spreading out of a tract of white fibres called the olivary and peduncle, which passes inwards through the opening in the nucleus Peduncle- to the raphe. The fibres of the peduncle partly terminate in the cells of the corpus dentatum, and are partly continued through the grey layer to join the arciform fibres. Grey matter of the medulla oblongata. The larger part of the grey Grey mat! ej matter in the medulla is a continuation of that of the cord, but ofmedulla there are in addition some smaller independent masses. Prolongation of grey matter of the spinal cord. At the lower end prolonged of the medulla oblongata the central grey matter resembles that in 10111 the spinal cord (fig. 129), but as it extends upwards it undergoes the following changes :—