LIGAMENTS OF TARSAL BONES. 705 foot free to move, then in inversion the outer part of the os calcis inversion, moves forwards and downwards, and the sustentaculum tali in the opposite direction, while the anterior end of the bone is carried somewhat inwards. As a result of this, aided by corresponding movements of the anterior tarsal bones, the fore part of the foot is depressed, and the arch increased; the toes are moved inwards ; and the outer border of the foot sinks, turning the sole in. In eversion the above movements are reversed. Bversion. In the ordinary mode of standing the foot is everted to the Condition of utmost, or nearly so, by the weight of the body ; if then inversion ^°n^no.. is practised, the inner side of the foot is raised from the ground, effect of and the part is supported on its outer edge. inversion. Astragalus with the navicular bone. The head of the Astragalus astragalus is received into the hollow of the navicular bone, and is navicular united to it by a dorsal ligament; but the place of plantar and bone: external lateral ligaments is supplied by strong bands between the os calcis and the navicular bone, which will be noticed below. The astragalo-navicular ligament (fig. 219, d) is attached to the dorsal astragalus close to the articulation, and to the dorsal surface of the ^ga111611*- navicular bone : its attachments will be better seen when it is cut through. Dissection. The external ligament of the articulation may be seen To lay bare on the dorsum of the foot in the hollow between the os calcis and {j^amenTs. the navicular bone. Supposing the tendon of the tibialis posticus removed, the inferior ligament will be defined in the sole of the foot by cutting some fibrocartilaginous substance from it. The inferior calcaneo-navicular ligament (fig. 221, c) is attached Inferior behind to the fore part of the sustentaculum tali of the os calcis, and and in front, to the hollow on the under surface of the navicular bone. In the upright posture of the body the tendon of the tibialis posticus is beneath it in the sole of the foot ; and on it the head of the astragalus rests. The external calcaneo-navicular ligament (fig. 219, e) is placed external outside the head of the astragalus, and serves as a lateral ligament ugament- to the astragalo-navicular articulation : it is about three-quarters of an inch deep. Behind, it is fixed to the upper part of the os calcis, between the articular surfaces for the cuboid bone and astragalus ; and in front it is inserted into the outer side of the navicular bone. The synovial cavity of this articulation is continued backwards synoviai into the joint between the front of the os calcis and the astragalus. sac- Articular surfaces. The head of the astragalus has two articular surfaees of faces ; a smaller, below, for the os calcis ; and a larger one, elon- bone- gated transversely and broader externally than internally, for the navicular bone. The surface of the navicular bone is hollowed, and is widest externally. Movement. The navicular moves down and in over the head of Movement: the astragalus in inversion, or up and out in eversion. *■ As the bone is forced downwards, the upper and external liga- state of ments of the joint are made tight; and when the navicular is moved hSamei1 in the opposite way, the strong inferior ligament is put on the stretch.