185 CIRCLE OF WILLIS. b. The anterior cerebral artery (2) supplies the inner part of the Anterior cerebral hemisphere. It is directed forwards to the median fissure artery*: between the halves of the large brain ; and as it is about to enter, it is united to its fellow by a short thick branch—the anterior its com- communicating (3). Then passing into the fissure, it bends round municatmg> the fore part of the corpus callosum, and is continued backwards along the upper surface of that body, sending its branches nearly to the posterior extremity of the hemisphere. It is distributed as follows :— Two or three small offsets (central branches) arise near the begin- central, ning of the artery, and penetrate the anterior perforated space at the inner end of the fissure of Sylvius to reach the fore part of the corpus striatum in the interior of the hemisphere. The cortical branches supply the fore and upper parts of the and cortical internal surface of the hemisphere, extending backwards as far as the parieto-occipital fissure ; and some turn round the margin to the adjacent portions of the frontal lobe on both the upper and lower aspects. c. The middle cerebral artery (4) is the largest branch of the carotid, and ramifies over the outer surface of the hemisphere, artery; Entering the fissure of Sylvius, it divides into four or five large cortical branches, which issue from the outer side of that groove, cortical and supply the whole of the parietal lobe, together with the neigh- bouring parts of the frontal and temporo-sphenoidal lobes. A set of small central branches arises from the artery at its origin, and central and passes through the anterior perforated space to the grey matter biancheb- of the corpus striatum. d. The choroid artery (anterior, 5) is small and arises either from Choroid the trunk of the carotid, or from the middle cerebral artery : it aiteiy- passes backwards on the outer side of the posterior communicating artery, and makes its way between the hemisphere and the crus cerebri to the choroid plexus of the lateral ventricle. Circle of Willis. The arteries at the under part of the brain are Circle of united freely both on their own side and across the middle line in an anastomotic ring—the circle of Willis. On each side this ring is formed by the trunk of the internal carotid giving forwards the J^ft that anterior cerebral, and backwards the posterior communicating artery. In front it is constructed by the converging anterior cerebrals, and the anterior communicating artery. And behind is the bifurcation of the basilar trunk into the posterior cerebrals. In the area of the circle lie several bodies corresponding with the floor of the third ventricle. The complete inosculation between the cranial vessels in the Use of tlie circle of Willis allows at all times a free circulation of blood through inosculation, the brain, even though a large vessel on one side of the neck should be obstructed. Beyond the circle of Willis the arteries of the cerebrum communi- ^astomoses cate together only by fine anastomoses. are small. The veins of the brain enter the sinuses of the dura mater, and Veins of the do not form companion trunks to the arteries. bram"