DISSECTION OF FRONT OF FOREARM. 288 Long palmar muscle lies over annular ligament and joins fascia of palm. Use. Flexor carpi ulnaris : origin by two heads : insertion into pisi- form bone. Adjacent parts. Use. Course and extent of the radial artery. Situation in the forearm. Relations to muscles : m upper half, The palmaris longus (fig. 84/) is sometimes absent; or it may- present great irregularity in the proportion between the fleshy and tendinous parts. It arises, like the preceding muscle, from the common tendon, the fascia, and the intermuscular septa. Its slender tendon is continued along the centre of the forearm ; and piercing the aponeurosis, it passes over the annular ligament to end in the palmar fascia, sending a slip to the abductor muscle of the thumb. The palmaris is situate between the flexor carpi radialis and ulnaris, and rests on the flexor sublimis digitorum. Action. Rendering tense the palmar fascia, the palmaris will afterwards bend the wrist and elbow, like the last muscle. The plexor carpi ulnaris (fig. 84,') arises by a narrow slip in common with the other muscles from the inner condyle of the humerus, and from the intermuscular septum between it and the flexor sublimis digitorum ; and by a broad aponeurosis from the inner margin of the olecranon and the posterior border of the ulna for the upper two-thirds of its length. The fibres pass downwards and for- wards to a tendon on the anterior aspect of the muscle in the lower half, some joining it as low as the wrist; and the tendon is inserted into the pisiform bone. One surface of the muscle is in contact with the fascia; and its tendon, which can be felt readily through the skin, serves as the guide to the ulnar artery. To its radial side are the palmaris and flexor sublimis digitorum muscles. When the attachment to the inner condyle has been divided, the muscle will be seen to conceal the flexor profundus digitorum, the ulnar nerve, and the ulnar vessels : between the attachments to the condyle and the olecranon the ulnar nerve enters the forearm. Action. The wrist is bent, and the hand is drawn inwards by the contraction of the muscle. The radial artery (fig. 84,1) is one of the vessels derived from the bifurcation of the brachial trunk, and extends to the palm of the hand. It is placed first along the outer side of the forearm as far as the end of the radius; next it winds backwards below the extremity of that bone ; and finally it enters the palm of the hand through the first interosseous space. In consequence of this cir- cuitous course the artery will be found in three different dissections, viz., the front of the forearm, the back of the wrist, and the palm of the hand. In the front of the forearm,. In this region of the limb the position of the artery will be marked on the surface by a line from the centre of the hollow of the elbow to the fore part of the styloid jDrocess of the radius. This vessel is smaller than the ulnar artery, though it appears in direction to be the continuation of the brachial trunk. It is partly deep and partly superficial; and where it is super- ficial, it can be felt beating as the pulse near the wrist during life. In its upper half the vessel is placed beneath the supinator longus (8) ; and it rests successively on the following muscles,'—the tendon of the biceps (9), the fleshy supinator brevis, the pronator teres (3), and part of the thin origin of the flexor sublimis (fi).