614 DISSECTION OF THE THIGH. the front of the thigh. Follow out sartorius, and fix it, and pre- serve nerves in contact with it. Dissect the adductors, and clean the extensor muscle. Dissect tensor of fascia. Sartorius: course over the thigh ; insertion. Eelations of the first or oblique portion ; front of the thigh, are to be thrown aside. The fascia lata is to be cut along the middle line of the thigh and knee, and to be reflected to each side nearly to the same extent as the skin. Over the knee- joint the student is to note its attachment to the edges of the patella, and its union with a prolongation from the tendon of the extensor muscle of the knee. In raising the inner piece of the fascia, the narrow muscle appear- ing (sartorius) should be followed to its insertion into the tibia ; and to prevent its displacement, it should be fixed with stitches along both edges. Care should be taken of the small nerves in contact with the sartorius, viz., a plexus beneath it at the middle of the thigh from the saphenous, internal cutaneous, and obturator; two branches of the internal cutaneous below its middle,—one crossing the surface, and the other lying along the inner edge of the muscle ; and the trunk of the great saphenous escaping from beneath it near the knee, with the patellar branch of the same perforating it rather higher. Internal to the sartorius some strong muscles (adductors) are inclined downwards from the pelvis to the femur. The student is to lay bare the fore part of these muscles ; and beneath the most superficial (adductor longus), near where it touches the sartorius, he is to seek a branch of the obturator nerve to the plexus before mentioned in the middle of the thigh. On the outer side of the sartorius is the large extensor of the knee. For its dissection the knee is to be bent, to make tense the fibres; and an expansion below from the common tendon to the fascia lata and the knee-joint is not to be removed now,—its arrangement will be noticed after. The little muscle at the upper and outer part of the thigh,—tensor of the fascia lata, is to be cleaned ; and a strip of the fascia, corre- sponding with the width of the muscle, should be left along the outer aspect of the limb. After this slip has been detached, the rest of the fascia on the outer side of the thigh is to be divided by one or two transverse cuts, and is to be followed backwards to its insertion into the femur. The sartorius (fig. 191, a) is the longest muscle in the body, and extends from the pelvis to the leg. It arches over the front of the thigh, passing from the outer to the inner side of the limb, and lies in a hollow between the extensor on the one side, and the adductors on the other. Its origin is tendinous from the upper anterior iliac spinous pro- cess of the hip-bone, and from about half the interval between this and the inferior process. The fibres constitute a riband-like muscle, which ends in a thin tendon below the knee, and is inserted into the inner surface of the tibia,—mainly into a slight depression by the side of the tubercle for an inch and a half, but also, by its upper edge, as far back as the internal lateral ligament of the knee- joint. The muscle is superficial throughout, and is perforated by some cutaneous nerves and vessels. Its upper part is oblique, and forms the outer boundary of Scarpa's triangle ; it rests on the