DISSECTION OF THE UPPER LIMB. 262 to coracoid process. Dissection, and fascia, of sub-> scapularis Subscapn- laris: and inser- tion. Relations. Dissection of the small infra- scapular artery. muscle often end in an aponeurotic arch, which is fixed to the hone ahove and "below. In front of these muscles, and inserted into the base of the scapula along its whole length, is the serratus magnus muscle (fig. 77, d), the upper and lower parts of which are much thickened, and occupy special surfaces on the ventral aspect of the corresponding angles of the bone. The insertion of the small pectoral muscle into the anterior half of the coracoid 2:)rocess a^ its upper and inner part is also seen (fig- 77, f). Dissection. By the separation of the serratus from the sub- scapularis there comes into view a thin fascia, which belongs to the latter muscle, and is fixed to the bone round its margins; after it has been observed, it may be taken away. The subscapularis muscle is to be followed forwards to its in- sertion into the humerus ; and the axillary vessels and nerves, with their offsets to the muscles, should be well cleaned. The subscapularis muscle (fig. 7 7, a) lies beneath the scapula, and is for the most part concealed by that bone when the limb is in its natural position. It arises from the concave ventral surface of the scapula, except near the upper and lower angles, and over the neck; and a thick portion of the muscle is attached in the groove along the axillary margin of the bone : many of the fleshy fibres spring from tendinous septa which are fixed to the ridges on the surface of the scapula. The muscle is inserted by a tendon into the impression on the small tuberosity of the humerus, and by fleshy fibres into the bone for nearly an inch below this mark. By one surface the muscle bounds the axilla, and is in contact with the axillary vessels and nerves, and the serratus magnus. By the other, it rests against the scapula and the shoulder-joint; and between its tendon and the root of the coracoid process is a bursa, which generally communicates with the synovial cavity of that joint. The lower border projects beyond the scapula, and is con- tiguous to the teres major, the latissimus dorsi, and the long head of the triceps ; along this border the subscapular artery runs, the dorsal branch of which, with the posterior circumflex artery and the circumflex nerve, turn backwards below it. Action. It rotates in the hanging limb ; and when the humerus is raised it depresses that bone. Dissection. The subscapularis is to be separated from the scapula, but a thin layer of fibres, in which the vessels lie, is to be left on the bone. As the muscle is raised, its tendinous processes of origin, the connection between its tendon and the capsule of the shoulder- joint, and the bursa are to be observed. A small arterial anasto- mosis on the ventral surface of the bone is to be dissected out of the fleshy fibres. The infrascapular artery is an offset of the dorsal branch of the subscapular vessel (p. 254), and ramifies on the ventral surface of the scapula. Passing beneath the subscapular muscle, it forms an anastomosis with small twigs of the suprascapular and posterior scapular arteries.