165 ARYTENOID CARTILAGES AND EPIGLOTTIS. The two arytenoid cartilages (c) are placed one on each side Arytenoid at the back of the larynx, on the upper border of the cricoid cartil- cartllases- age. Each is pyramidal in shape, is about half an inch in depth, Situation and offers for examination a base and apex, and three surfaces. The base has the form of an elongated triangle, with one of the Base, angles (the postero-internal) rounded off. Its anterior extremity is thin and tapering, and gives attachment to the inferior thyro- arytenoid ligament, whence it is named the vocal process. The external angle is thick, and projects backwards and outwards, form- ing the muscular process, into which the crico-arytenoid muscles are inserted. On the under aspect of the muscular process is an oval, concave articular facet, sloped downwards and outwards, for the cricoid cartilage. The apex of the cartilage is directed backwards, Apex, and is surmounted by the capitulum of Santorini. The inner surface is narrow, especially above, and flat; it is Surfaces: covered by the mucous membrane. The anterior or outer surface is internal, the largest and irregular, being convex above and concave below. Sterna™1 It is marked near the upper end by a tubercle, and lower down, at the junction of the middle and lower thirds, by an oblique ridge. This surface gives attachment to the superior thyro-arytenoid liga- ment and the thyro-arytenoid muscle. At its posterior aspect the and cartilage is concave and smooth, being covered by the arytenoid muscle. Postenor- Cartilages of Santorini, comicula or capitula laryngis. At- Fibro-carti- tached to the apex of each arytenoid cartilage is the small, conical j^ts0°fni fibro-cartilage of Santorini, which is inclined backwards and inwards. The aryteno-epiglottidean fold is connected with it. Cuneiform cartilages. Two other small nbro-cartilaginous Fibro-carti- bodies, one on each side, which are contained in the aryteno- wlisberg. epiglottidean folds, have received this name. Each is somewhat elongated in form, like a grain of rice ; it is situate obliquely in front of the capitulum of the arytenoid cartilage, and its place in the fold of the mucous membrane is marked by a slight whitish projection. These cartilages are often absent. The epiglottis (fig. 43, a) is single, and is the largest of the Epiglottis pieces of yellow fibro-cartilage. In form it resembles an obovate Form and leaf, with the stalk below and the blade above. Its position is Posltlon- behind the tongue, and in front of the orifice of the larynx. During respiration it is placed vertically; but during deglutition it takes a horizontal direction so as to close the opening of the larynx. The anterior surface is covered in its upper part by mucous Surfaces: membrane, which forms the three glosso-epiglottidean folds (p. 152) antenor' between it and the tongue ; its lower part is attached to the hyoid bone by fatty tissue containing glands, and by the hyo-epiglottidean ligament. The posterior surface is entirely covered by closely and adherent mucous membrane, and is for the most part concave ; but postenor' at the lower end there is an elevation known as the tubercle or cushion of the epiglottis. To the sides the aryteno-epiglottidean Sides, folds of mucous membrane are united. After the mucous membrane Glands in it. has been removed from the cartilage, its substance will be seen to be excavated by numerous pits, which lodge mucous glands.