AURICLE OF THE EAR. 33 Blood-vessels of the eyelids. The arteries of the eyelids are Arteries of furnished by the palpebral and lachrymal branches of the oph-llds' thalmic artery :— The palpebral arteries, one for each eyelid, run outwards from Palpebral the inner canthus, lying between the tarsus and the orbicular muscle; and they anastomose externally with the lachrymal artery. From each arch branches are distributed to the structures of the lid. The terminal portion of the lachrymal artery perforates the ^ lachry- palpebral ligament at the outer part of the orbit, and, after having given small offsets to the upper eyelid, divides into two branches which complete the palpebral arches. The veins of the lids open into the angular, facial and temporal Veins, veins. The nerves of the eyelids are supplied from the ophthalmic and Nerves of superior maxillary divisions of the fifth and the facial nerves. The branches of the ophthalmic nerve which give offsets to the from fifth, upper lid are the following : lachrymal, near the outer part; supra- orbital, about the middle ; and supratrochlear and infratrochlear at the inner side. In the lower eyelid there are usually two palpebral branches, inner and outer, of the superior maxillary nerve. Branches of the facial nerve enter both lids at the outer side, and and seventh supply the orbicularis muscle ; they communicate with the offsets of nerve- the fifth nerve. External Ear. The outer ear consists of a broad, projecting Parts of part, named pinna or auricle, and of a tube—meatus auditorius externalear* externus, leading inwards to the middle ear, from which it is separated by the tympanic membrane. The pinna may be now examined on the left side of the head; but the meatus will be described with the anatomy of the ear. The pinna or auricle is an uneven piece of yellow fibro-cartilage, jFer^u^ and which is covered with integument, and is fixed to the margin of the pinna, meatus auditorius externus. It is of a somewhat oval form, with the margin folded and the upper end larger than the lower. The surface next the head is generally convex ; and the opposite ^rked by excavated, but presenting the following elevations and depressions, fossa} and In the centre is a deep hollow named concha, which is wide above emmences- but narrow below ; it conducts to the meatus auditorius. In front of the narrowed part of the hollow is a projection of a triangular shape—the tragus, which has some hairs on the inner surface ; and on the opposite side of the same narrow end, rather below the level of the tragus, is placed another projection—the antitragus. The prominent rim-like margin of the ear, which extends into the Margin, concha, is called the helix; and the depression internal to it is the groove or fossa of the helix. Within the helix, forming the hinder and upper boundary of the concha, is the large eminence of the antihelix, which presents at its upper part a triangular depression, the fossa of the antihelix. Inferiorly the auricle ends in a soft pendulous part, the lobule. Lobule. The special muscles of the pinna, which extend from one part of intrinsic