DISSECTION OF THE THOEAX. 350 Thickness of left ven- tricle, of right, and of septum : owing to the thinness of the wall. Make a vertical cut along the anterior aspect from the root of the pulmonary artery to the apex of the ventricle ; and reflect the several layers inwards and outwards. As the superficial ones are raised, their fibres may be followed into the septum in front, and across the middle line into the wall of the left ventricle at the back. Thickness of ventricular walls. The wall of the left ventricle is in general nearly three times as thick as that of the right. Its thickest part is about one-fourth of its length from the base ; and at the apex it is very thin. The free wall of the right ventricle is of more uni- form thickness than the left. The septum is about as thick as the wall of the left ventricle, except at the upper end, in a small area close below the aortic orifice, Fig. 107. Fibres can he separated into layers by dissec- tion. Direction of fibres: external, middle, and internal. Course of fibres is obscure. where there is a very thin part from which muscular fibres are absent (pars membranacea septi). Arrangement of fibres. It has been shewn by the fore- going dissection that the di- rection of the muscular fasci- culi composing the ventricular Avail varies at different depths from the surface, and that at a given spot a number of layers may be separated, which are characterized by the difference in direction of their fibres. Such a division into distinct layers is how- ever in great measure artifi- cial, for the change in direc- tion is gradual, and many fibres pass across from one layer to another, and have to be cut to effect the separation. Over both ventricles the most superficial fibres are directed very obliquely from base to apex, and from right to left on the anterior surface, from left to right on the posterior surface. Pro- ceeding inwards, the obliquity gradually diminishes ; and in the centre of the wall the fibres are transverse. Within the last, as the cavity of the ventricle is approached, the fibres become oblique again, but in the opposite direction to the external ones ; and the innermost fibres of all are nearly longitudinal. The attempt to trace the whole course of the bundles is, except in the case of the superficial fibres, attended with great difficulty, owing to the interlacement, brandling, and joining of the fasciculi. * A diagram of the arrangement of the fibres in layers in the left ventricle. The dissection is carried through about two-thirds of the thickness of the wall. 1, 2, 3. Outer layers, the fibres of which gradually become less oblique. 4. Middle layer of transverse fibres. 5. Inner set of oblique fibres. The deepest fibres, corresponding to 1 and 2 of the exterior, are not shewn.