DISSECTION OF THE LARYNX. 160 and crico- thyroid membrane. cartilages. Take away in like manner the thyroarytenoid, raising it from before back. By the removal of the last muscle an elastic membrane, crico-thyroid (fig. 44, 6), comes into view ; and it will be seen to be continued upwards into, and give rise to the prominence of the inferior or true vocal cord. Lastly, di ssect off the mucous membrane from the vocal cords on the Vocal cords, construc- tion. Superior cord, and thyro- arytenoid ligament. Inferior cord, Fig. 42. right side, and in doing this the wall of the ventricle and saccule, which are formed mainly by this membrane, will disappear. The vocal cords (fig. 42) are two bands on each side, which extend from the angle of the thyroid to the aryte- noid cartilage, one forming the upper, the other the lower margin of the ven- tricle of the larynx. Each consists of a fold of the mucous membrane supported by a ligamentous structure —the superior and inferior thyro-arytenoid ligaments re- spectively. The superior or false vocal cord (c) is arched with its concavity downwards, and is much softer and looser than the lower. Its free border is thick and rounded. The con- tained superior thijro-arytenoid ligament consists mostly of white fibrous tissue, and is fixed in front to the angle of the thyroid cartilage near the attach- ment of the epiglottis, behind to the middle portion of the anterior surface of the arytenoid cartilage. It is continuous above with scattered fibrous bundles in the aryteno-epiglottidean fold. The inferior or true vocal cord (b) is attached in front to the angle of the thyroid cartilage about half way down below the notch, and behind to the vocal process of the arytenoid cartilage. Between these points, its free margin, by the vibration of which the voice is produced, is straight, sharp and smooth. The cord projects upwards and inwards into the cavity of the larynx, and forms the boundary of the vocal portion of the glottis. It is about seven lines long in * Vocal apparatus, on a vertical section of the larynx, a. "Ventricle of the larynx, b. True vocal cord. c. False vocal cord. D. Sacculus laryngis. e. Arytenoid cartilage, f. Cricoid cartilage, o. Thyroid cartilage, h. Epi- glottis, k. Crico-thyroid membrane. I. Thyro-hyoid membrane.