DISSECTION OF THE ORBIT. 42 attached to tarsus. Relations. Use. Upper rec- tus muscle. Origin. Insertion. Position to other parts. Use. Upper oblique muscle enters a loop. Insertion. Relations. Pulley of the muscle. Dissection. and bends downwards in the upper eyelid to be inserted by a broad tendon into the front of the tarsal plate. By one surface the muscle is in contact with the frontal nerve and the periosteum ; and by the other with the superior rectus muscle. If it is cut across about the middle, a small branch of the third nerve will be seen entering the posterior half on the under surface. Action. The lid is made to glide upwards over the ball by this muscle, so that the upper edge is directed back and the lower forwards, the skin above the lid being folded inwards at the same time. If the eyeball is directed down, the movement of the lid is less free, because the conjunctiva is put on the stretch. The superior rectus (fig. 10, d) is the upper of four muscles that lie around the globe of the eye. It arises from the upper part of the optic foramen, and is connected with the other recti muscles around the optic nerve. In front the fleshy fibres end in a tendon, which is inserted, like the other recti, into the sclerotic coat of the eyeball about a quarter of an inch behind the trans- parent cornea. The under surface of the muscle is in contact with the globe of the eye, and with some vessels and nerves to be afterwards seen; the upper surface is covered by the preceding muscle. The action of the muscle will be given with the other recti (p. 47). The superior oblique muscle (fig. 10, a) is thin and narrow, and passes through a fibrous loop at the inner angle of the orbit before reaching the eyeball. The muscle arises behind from the inner part of the optic foramen, and ends anteriorly in a rounded tendon, which, after passing through the loop referred to (fig. 11), is reflected backwards and outwards between the superior rectus and the globe of the eye, and is inserted into the sclerotic coat behind the middle of the ball. The fourth nerve is supplied to the orbital surface of the muscle and the nasal nerve lies below it. The thin insertion of the muscle lies between the superior and the external recti, and near the tendon of the inferior oblique. The pulley, or trochlea (fig. 11), is a fibro-cartilaginous ring nearly a quarter of an inch wide, which is attached by fibrous tissue to the depression of the frontal bone at the inner angle of the orbit. A fibrous layer is prolonged from the margins of the pulley on the tendon; and a synovial sheath lines the ring, to facilitate the movement of the tendon through it. To see the synovial sheath and the free motion of the tendon, this prolonga- tion may be cut away. For the use of the muscle, see the description of the inferior oblique (p. 49). Dissection. The superior rectus muscle is next to be divided about the middle and turned backwards (fig. 11), when a branch of the third nerve to its under surface will be found. At the same time the nasal nerve and the ophthalmic vessels will come into view as they cross inwards above the optic nerve : these should be traced