710 DISSECTION OF THE LEG. and lateral motion. Joints of four outer toes : dorsal liga- ments ; plantar ligaments : lateral liga- ments ; oblique plantar. Line of the articulation across the foot. Two syno- vial sacs. The joint possesses likewise slight abcluctoiy and adductory move- ment. Articulation of the four outer toes. The three outer tarsal bones of the distal row correspond with four metatarsals,—the middle cunei- form being opposite the second metatarsal bone, the external cunei- form touching the third, and the cuboid carrying the outer two bones. The surfaces in contact are tipped with cartilage, and have longitudinal dorsal, plantar, and lateral ligaments, with some oblique in the sole. The dorsal ligaments (fig. 222) are thin bauds of fibres, which are more or less longitudinal as they extend from the tarsal to the metatarsal bones. Each metatarsal bone receives one ligament, except that of the second toe, to which there are three,—the three bands to the second coming from all the cuneiform bones, one from each. The third bone obtains a ligament from the external cunei- form ; and the fourth and fifth have a fasciculus to each from the cuboid. Plantar ligaments (fig. 220). There is one longitudinal band from each of the outer two cuneiform to the corresponding metatarsal bone ; but between the cuboid and its metatarsal bones there are only some scattered fibres. The lateral ligaments are longitudinal; they lie deeply between the bones, and are connected with the second and third metatarsals : they will be better seen by cutting the transverse bands joining the bases of the bones. To the bone of the second toe there are two bands, one on each side ;—the inner is strong and is attached to the internal cuneiform ; and the outer is fixed to the external cunei- form bone. The metatarsal bone of the third toe is provided with one lateral slip on its outer side, which is inserted behind into the external cuneiform bone. Oblique plantar ligaments. A fasciculus of fibres extends across from the front of the internal cuneiform to the second and third meta- tarsals ; and from the external cuneiform there is another slip to the metatarsal bone of the little toe. Line of the articulation. The line of the articulation between the tarsus and metatarsus is zigzag, in consequence of the unequal lengths of the cuneiform bones. To open the articulation, the knife should be carried obliquely forwards from the tuberosity of the fifth to the outer side of the second metatarsal bone ; then about two lines farther back for the union of the second metatarsal with the middle cuneiform ; and finally, half an inch in front of the last articulation, for the joint of the internal cuneiform with the first metatarsal bone. Two synovial cavities are present in these tarso-metatarsal articu- lations. There is one between the cuboid and the two outer metatarsals, which serves also for the adjacent lateral articular surfaces of the latter bones : this is not always separate from the following. The second is placed in the joint between the external and middle cuneiforms with their metatarsal bones (third and second), and is