29 PAROTID GLAND. lymphatic glands are seated on it; but from the deep part processes are sent into the inequalities of the space between the jaw and the mastoid process. Dissection. By removing with caution the parotid gland, the ^1^°^^ hollows that it fills will come into view : at the same time the dis- parts, sector will see the vessels and nerves that pass through it. An ex- amination of the processes of the gland, and of the number of important vessels and nerves in relation with it, will demonstrate the dangers attending any operation on it. The duct may be opened, and a pin may be passed along it to the mouth, to show the position and the diminished size of the aperture. Two large processes of the gland extend deeply into the neck. Deep part One dips behind the styloid process, and projects beneath the ?™^sbehmd mastoid process and sterno-mastoid muscle, where it reaches also the deep vessels and nerves of the neck. The other piece is situate in front of the styloid process; it passes into the glenoid hollow behind the articulation of the lower jaw, and sinks beneath the ramus of that bone along the internal maxillary artery. Coursing through the middle of the gland is the external carotid Vessels and artery, which ascends behind the ramus of the jaw, and furnishes the posterior auricular, superficial temporal, and internal maxillary branches. Superficially to the artery lies the trunk formed by the junction of the temporal and internal maxillary veins ; and this common trunk, receiving some veins from the parotid, divides near the angle of the jaw into two branches, the anterior of which passes downwards to join the facial vein, while the posterior inclines back- wards over the border of the sterno-mastoid muscle and is continued into the external jugular vein (fig. 15). Crossing the vessels in nerves in the gland from behind forwards is the trunk of the facial nerve, the gland* which divides here into its primary branches. The superficial temporal branch of the inferior maxillary nerve lies above the upper part of the glandular mass ; and offsets of the great auricular nerve pierce the gland at the lower part, and join the facial. In dissecting out the gland it has been seen to consist of a Obvious number of lobules separated by connective tissue septa. From the aiandUlre ° lobules small ducts arise, and these join together so as to give rise to two large tubes, which are placed superficially to the branches of the facial nerve in the gland, and by their union opposite the hinder margin of the ramus of the jaw form the beginning of Stenson's duct. As it crosses the masseter the main duct receives one or more small branches from the socia parotidis. The parotid receives its arteries from the external carotid ; and Vessels and its nerves from the sympathetic, auriculo-temporal of the fifth, facial, and great auricular. Its lymphatics join those of the neck. Two or three small molar glands lie on the surface of the Molar buccinator, and open into the mouth near the last molar teeth by glands* separate ducts. The Nose has the form of a three-sided pyramid, which is External attached to the face by one of its surfaces, while the base is free, parts', The lateral surfaces meet anteriorly in a rounded edge termed the