SUBCLAVIAN ARTERY. 09 Veins. The subclavian vein approaches the artery, not being Position of separated by muscle, but lies commonly at a lower level. The veins> external jugular vein crosses it near the scalenus muscle ; and the suprascapular and transverse cervical branches, which enter the jugular, sometimes form a plexus over this part of the artery. Nerves. The large nerves of the brachial plexus are mostly above of nerves to the artery, but the lowest trunk is still behind and close to the artery- vessel; and the small nerve to the subclavius crosses it about the middle. Superficial to the cervical fascia lie the descending cutaneous branches of the cervical plexus. Peculiarities. The artery may spring as a separate trunk from Peculiarities the arch of the aorta, in which case it takes a deeper course than of onsm> usual to reach the interval between the scaleni muscles. The level of the arch formed by the subclavian artery in the neck level and varies in different subjects (see p. 56) ; and occasionally the vessel course- pierces, or even passes in front of the scalenus anticus muscle. Branches. The chief branches of the subclavian artery are four in Branches of number. Three of these arise from the first part of the arterial subclavian- trunk:—one (vertebral) ascends to the head; another (internal From first, mammary) descends to the chest; and the remaining one (thyroid axis) is a short thick trunk, which furnishes branches inwards and outwards to the thyroid body and the shoulder. These arise commonly near the scalenus muscle, so as to leave an interval at the beginning of the trunk free from offsets. This interval varies in length from half an inch to an inch in the greater number of cases ; and its extremes rauge from less than a quarter of an inch to an inch and three quarters. In some instances the branches are scattered over the first part of the artery. * The fourth branch (superior intercostal) arises beneath the an- second, terior scalenus from the second part of the artery, and gives off the deep cervical branch : a small spinal artery frequently comes from this part of the trunk. If there is a branch present on the third part of the artery, it is and third commonly the posterior scapular : if more than one, the internal part' mammary, the suprascapular, or the thyroid axis may be added. The vertebral artery is generally the first and largest branch of Vertebral^ the subclavian, and arises from the upper and posterior part of the neekf m ^ trunk. Ascending between the contiguous borders of the scalenus anticus and longus colli muscles, this branch enters the foramen in the transverse process of the sixth cervical vertebra, and is continued upwards to the skull through the foramina in the other cervical vertebrae. Before the artery enters its aperture it lies behind the internal jugular vein, and is crossed by the inferior thyroid artery ; it is accompanied by branches of the sympathetic nerve, and supplies small muscular offsets. Its farther course and distribution will be Small n. , branches, given afterwards. * The student is referred for fuller information respecting the peculiarities of the vessels, and the practical applications to be deduced from them, to the original and valuable work on the Anatomy of the Arteries of the Human Body by Richard Quain, F.R.S.