DISSECTION OF FKONT OF FOREARM. 290 Insertion. Relations. Use on fingers. on elbow and wrist. Ulnar artery ends inpahii of hand. Course in upper half; and rela- tions to muscles : in lower half: relations to muscles. Vense comites. Nerves in relation. elbow-joint and the inner margin of the coronoid process of the nlna ; and by a thin layer from the oblique line of the radius, as well as frequently from the anterior border of that bone for a distance of one or two inches below the insertion of the pronator teres. Below the middle of the forearm the muscle ends in four tendons, which are continued beneath the annular ligament and through the hand, to be inserted into the middle phalanges of the fingers, after being perforated by the tendons of the deep flexor. The flexor sublimis is in great part concealed by the other muscles of the superficial group ; and the radial vessels lie on the attachment to the radius. Along the inner border is the flexor carpi ulnaris, with the ulnar vessels and nerve. The tendons of the muscle are arranged in pairs before they pass beneath the annular ligament of the wrist ;—the middle and ring finger tendons being anterior, and those of the index and little finger posterior in position. On dividing the condylar and coronoid attachments, the muscle will be seen to cover two deep flexors (flexor profundus digitorum and flexor longus pollicis), the median nerve, and the upper part of the ulnar artery. Action. This flexor bends first the middle and then the proximal joints of the fingers ; but when the first phalanges are fixed by the extensor of the fingers, the superficial flexor moves the second phalanges alone. After the fingers are bent the muscle will help in flexing the wrist and elbow-joints. The ulnar artery (fig. 85, g) is the larger of the two branches coming from the bifurcation of the brachial trunk, and is directed along the inner side of the limb to the palm of the hand, where it forms the superficial palmar arch, and supplies most of the fingers. In the forearm the vessel has an arched direction ; and its depth from the surface varies in the first and last parts of its course. In the upper half the artery is inclined obliquely inwards from the centre of the elbow to the inner side of the limb. It courses between the superficial and deep muscles, being covered by the pronator teres, flexor carpi radialis, palmaris longus, and flexor sublimis. Beneath it lie the brachialis anticus for a short distance, and the flexor profundus (c). In the loiver half it has a straight course to the pisiform bone, and is covered by the integuments and fascia, and by the flexor carpi ulnaris. To the outer side are the tendons of the flexor sublimis. Beneath it is the flexor profundus (c). Veins. Two veins accompany the artery, and are united across it at intervals. Nerves. The median nerve (1) lies to the inner side of the vessel for about an inch, but then crosses over it to gain the outer side, the coronoid head of the pronator teres being placed between the two. Rather above the middle of the forearm the ulnar nerve (4) reaches the artery, and continues thence on the inner side ; and a small branch (5), sending twigs around the artery, courses on it to the palm of the hand.