719 CHOROID COAT. Vascular Coat of the Eyeball (fig. 224). The next cover- Vascuiai aud mus lar coat. ing is situate within the sclerotic, and is formed in large part ofand "" blood-vessels ; the muscles of the interior of the hall also belong to this coat. It is constructed of three parts,—a posterior (choroid) correspond- Compo- ing with the sclerotic, an anterior (iris) opposite the cornea, and an nents- intermediate ring (ciliary muscle) on a level with the union of the sclerotic and cornea. Dissection. Supposing the cornea of an eye cut through circularly Dissection as before directed (p. 717), it will be necessary to take away the choroid^ sclerotic to lay bare the choroid coat. With the point of the scalpel, portion, or with a shut scissors, detach the fore part of the sclerotic from the front of the choroid by breaking through a soft whitish structure uniting them. Then, the eye being put into water, the outer coat is to be removed by cutting it away piece-meal with the scissors ; in taking it off, the slender vessels and nerves beneath are to be pre- served. The white ring round the eye in front, which comes into view during the dissection, is the ciliary muscle. For the purpose of obtaining a front view of the ciliary pro- To show cesses, which are connected with the anterior termination of the cho- processes5" roid coat, let the cornea be removed as before on another eyeball. Detach next the fore part of the sclerotic from the choroid ; and after three or four cuts have been made in it towards the optic nerve, the resulting flaps may be pinned out, so as to support the eye in an upright position. On removing with care the iris, taking it away by an •from the centre towards the circumference, the ciliary processes be- anterior neath will be displayed. A posterior view of the processes may be and a pos- prepared on another ball by cutting through it circularly with enorview- scissors, about one-third of an inch behind the cornea, so that the anterior can be removed from the posterior half; on taking away the portion of the vitreous mass adherent to the anterior part of the ball, and washing off the pigment from the back of the iris, the small processes will be made manifest. By means of the last dissection the interior of the choroid coat may be seen. If a vertical section is made of another eyeball, it will show the To make a ciliary processes in their natural position, and will demonstrate the section! relative situation of all the parts. This section, which is made with difficulty, should be attempted in water with a sharp large knife, and on a surface of wax or wood, after the cornea and sclerotic have been cut with a scissors. When the eye has been divided, the halves should remain in water. The choroid coat (fig. 223, b) is a thin membrane of a dark colour, Choroid : and extends from the optic nerve to the fore part of the eyeball, extent; When viewed on the eye in which the ciliary muscle is entire, it anterior appears to terminate there ; but it may be seen in the other dissec-termmatlfm; tions to pass inwards behind that muscle, and to end in a series of projections (ciliary processes) at the back of the iris. This covering is rather thicker and stronger behind than in front. Its outer surface is for the most part only slightly attached to the relations of ■sclerotic by delicate bands of areolar tissue, and has a flocculent surface,