DISSECTION OF THE LARYNX. 164 Formed of two alas, each having upper and lower cornua. Cricoid cartilage. Surfaces. Borders. til v i;!!' !'^ the thyro-arytenoid muscles and ligaments. The upper border is notched in the centre. The cartilage consists of two squarish halves or alee, which are united in front. Posteriorly each ala has a thick border, which is continued upwards and downwards in a rounded process or cornu (e and f). Both cornua are bent slightly inwards : of the two, the upper (e) is the longer ; but the lower one (f) is the thicker, and articulates with the cricoid cartilage. The inner surface of the ala is smooth ; the outer is marked by an oblique line for the attachment of muscles, which extends from a tubercle near the root of the upper cornu, to a projection at the middle of the lower border. The CRICOID CARTILAGE (d) is stronger though smaller than the thyroid, and surrounds the lower part of the cavity of the larynx; it is partly con- cealed by the thyroid cartilage, below which it is placed. It is very unequal in depth before and behind,—the posterior part being nearly four times as deep as the anterior, something like a signet ring. Its contained space is about as large as the fore finger. At the back of the cartilage there is a flat and rather square is marked on its posterior surface by a median two oval depressions occupied by the posterior crico-arytenoid muscles. On each side, immediately in front of the square part, is a slightly raised articular facet, which receives the lower cornu of the thyroid cartilage. The inner surface is smooth, and is covered by mucous membrane. The lower border is horizontal, somewhat undulating, and is united to the trachea by fibrous membrane. The upper border of the broad part of the cartilage is slightly excavated in the middle, and is limited on each side by a convex articular facet for the ary- tenoid cartilage, which slopes downwards and outwards. In front of that spot, the border descends raj3idly as it passes forwards to the middle line. portion, which ridge, between * Hyoid bone and laryngeal cartilages cornu. j. Small cornu. A. Epiglottis, b. Thyroid cartilage, coid cartilage. G. Body of hyoid bone. Large c.c. Arytenoid cartilages. D. Cri- E. Upper cornu, and F. Lower cornu of thyroid cartilage.