DISSECTION OF THE ABDOMEN. 466 Width by muscles in wall of abdomen. How excreta expelled. Division of Abdomen proper. Pelvic portion. Abdomen proper here described. Pelvis after. Abdominal cavity is marked out into regions. Three lateral on each and three central. Other sub- divisions. Things in cavity. Viscera seen without displace- ment. General division of The width is lessened by the contraction of the abdominal muscles ; but it is increased, during their relaxation, by the action of the diaphragm forcing outwards the viscera. The greatest diminution of the space is effected by the simultaneous contraction of all the muscular boundaries, as in the expulsion of the excreta. Division of the space. A division has been made of the space into the abdomen proper and the cavity of the pelvis. The abdominal portion reaches from the diaphragm to the brim of the pelvis, and lodges nearly the whole of the alimentary tube and its appendages, together with the kidneys. The pelvic portion is situate below the brim of the pelvis, and contains chiefly the generative and urinary organs. The following description concerns the part of the cavity between the diaphragm and the brim of the pelvis. Towards the end of the dissection of the abdomen, the pelvic portion will receive a separate notice (p. 539). Regions. The upper part of the abdominal cavity is divided into regions by lines drawn through certain points of the parietes. If two horizontal lines are carried round the body, so that one shall be opposite the lowest point of the thoracic wall on each side, and the other on a level with the highest point of the iliac crest, the abdomen will be divided into three zones,—upper, middle and lower. Each of these zones is farther subdivided into three by a vertical line on each side, falling on the centre of Poupart's ligament. The regions marked off, on each side, from the three zones by the vertical ]ine are named respectively, from above downwards, hypo- chondriac, lumbar, and iliac ; while the central parts are designated, from above down, epigastric, umbilical, and hypogastric. In addition, the middle and lower part of the hypogastric space is named pubic region, while the contiguous portions of the hypo- gastric and iliac constitute the inguinal region. Contents and their position. The alimentary tube, the liver, pan- creas, spleen, and kidneys occupy the abdomen proper. Superficial view. On first opening the abdomen the following viscera appear (fig. 144) :—Above and to the right is the liver, which is in great part concealed by the ribs. Lower down, and more to the left, a piece of the stomach is visible ; but this viscus lies mostly beneath the ribs and the liver. Descending from the stomach is a loose fold of peritoneum (the large omentum), which reaches to the pelvis, and conceals the small intestine : in some bodies the omentum is raised into the left hypochondriac region, and leaves the intestine uncovered. The csecum (cce) is usually to be seen in the right iliac region ; and sometimes a part of the sigmoid flexure of the colon comes to the surface in the corresponding situa- tion on the left side. Close above the pubic symphysis is the apex of the bladder (bl), with the urachus (ur) continued upwards from it; and if the organ is distended, a larger part of it is exposed. The alimentary tube presents differences in form, and is divided