DISSECTION OF THE NECK. '60 ANTERIOR TRIANGULAR SPACE. This space (fig. 15) contains the carotid vessels and their branches, with many nerves ; and it corresponds with the hollow on the surface of the neck in front of the sterno-mastoid muscle. Dissection. To define the anterior triangular space and its contents, take away the deep fascia of the neck and the subjacent fat, but without injuring or displacing the several parts. First clean the surface of the muscles below the hyoid bone, leaving untouched the anterior jugular vein. The trunks into which the large carotid artery bifurcates are to be followed upwards, especially the more superficial one (external carotid), the branches of which are to be traced as far as they lie in the space. In removing the sheath from the vessels, as these appear from beneath the muscles at the lower part of the neck, the dissector should be careful of the small descending branch of the hypoglossal nerve on the surface of the artery. In the sheath between the vessels (carotid artery and jugular vein) will be found the pneumo-gastric nerve, and behind the sheath lies the sympathetic nerve. Clean the digastric and stylo-hyoid muscles, which cross the space in the direction of a line from the mastoid process to the hyoid bone, and beneath them look for several nerves. Thus, crossing the carotid arteries just below the digastric is the hypoglossal nerve, which gives one branch (descendens noni) in front of the artery, and another smaller one to the thyro-hyoid muscle. Under cover of the muscles, and taking a similar direction between the two carotid arteries, are the glosso-pharyngeal nerve and the stylo- pharyngeus muscle. Directed downwards and backwards from beneath the same muscles to the sterno-mastoid is the spinal accessory nerve. On the inner side of the vessels, between the hyoid bone and the thyroid cartilage, the dissector will find the superior laryngeal nerve ; and by the side of the larynx, with the descending part of the superior thyroid artery, the small external laryngeal branch. ■Clean gland, Clean then the submaxillary gland close to the base of the jaw ; toemyio-Ve an(l on partly displacing it from the surface of the mylo-hyoid hyoid. muscle, the student will expose the small branch of nerve to that muscle with the submental artery. The interval between the jaw and the mastoid process has been already cleaned by the removal of the parotid gland in the dissec- tion of the facial nerve. Boundaries. Limits of the space. Behind, is the sterno-mastoid muscle Q) ; and in front, the boundary is formed by a line from the chin to the sternum, along the middle of the neck. Above, at the base of the space, are the lower jaw, the skull, and the ear ; and below, at the apex, is the sternum. Over this space are placed the skin, the superficial fascia with the platsyma, the deep fascia, and the ramifi- cations of the facial and superficial cervical nerves, together with the anterior jugular vein. Anterior triangular space. Dissection of anterior triangle. Trace arteries. Seek longi- tudinal nerves, and trans- verse nerves. Spinal accessory. Laryngeal nerves.