.368 DISSECTION OF THE THORAX. Right duet is in the neck : Fig. 109. Branches tojoii spinal to supply viscera. Offsets of upper six ganglia are small : also the lymphatics of the left lung, the left side of the heart, and the trachea and oesophagus. The right lymphatic duct (fig. 28) receives large branches from the viscera of the thorax. It is a short trunk, about half an inch in length, and opens into the angle of union of the subclavian and jugular veins of the same side (p. 71) : its. opening is guarded by valves. Branches. Into this trunk the lymphatics- of the right upper limb and right side of the head and neck pour their contents. In addition, the lymphatics of the right side of the chest, right lung and right half of the heart, and some from the right lobe of the liver, after passing through their re- spective glands, unite into a few large trunks, which ascend beneath the innomi- nate vein to reach the duct in the neck. Cord of the sympathetic nerve. The thoracic part of the gangliated cord of the sympathetic nerve is covered by the pleura, and is placed over the heads of the ribs and the intercostal vessels. The ganglia on it are usually twelve, one being opposite each dorsal nerve, but this number is frequently reduced by the fusion of two adjoining swellings. The first ganglion is the largest ; and the last two are rather anterior to the line of the others, being situate on the side of the bodies of the corresponding vertebrae. Each ganglion furnishes external branches to communicate with the spinal nerves,, and internal for the supply of the viscera. External or connecting branches (fig. 110). Two offsets pass outwards from each gang- lion to join a spinal nerve (intercostal). In the branches of communication both .spinal and sympathetic nerve-fibres are combined ; but one (h) consists almost entirely of spinal, and the other (i) mainly of sym- pathetic fibres. The internal or visceral branches differ in size and distribution,, according as they are derived from the upper or lower ganglia. The offsets of the upper six ganglia are very small, and are dis- tributed to the aorta, and to the vertebra? with the ligaments. From the third and fourth ganglia offsets are sent to the posterior pulmonary plexus. * The thoracic duct, and the azygos veins. 1. Thoracic duct. 2. Ending of the duct in the left subclavian vein. 3. Large azygos vein. 4. Left lower azygos vein. 5. Left upper azygos vein. 6. Vena cava superior. 7. Left internal jugular vein, cut through.