STEUCTUEE OF THE PEOSTATE. 567 Structure. On a section the gland appears reddish grey in colour, structure, is very firm to the feel, and is scarcely lacerable. It is made up of a mass of muscular and fibrous tissues, with interspersed glandu- lar structure ; and the whole is enveloped by a fibrous sheath derived from the recto-vesical fascia (p. 544). Muscular tissue. The firm mass of this body consists mainly of Muscular involuntary muscular fibres, intermixed with elastic and fibrous p^fn—18 tissues. One set of muscular fibres is arranged circularly round the urethral canal,—these are continuous above with the annular circular, fibres of the bladder, and below with a thin layer of circular fibres surrounding the membranous portion of the urethra ; others run transversely behind the urethra, and radiate in each lateral lobe radiating, through the glandular substance ; and over the greater part of the an(j surface is an external stratum, forming a kind of capsule, which superficial; adheres to the fibrous sheath. Along the front and towards the and striped, apex, the superficial part of the organ is composed of striated mus- cular fibres, also disposed transversely, which are continued into the constrictor urethras muscle between the layers of the triangular liga- ment. ^ Glandular substance. This is composed of a number of small Glands in branched glands, which are embedded in the muscular stroma, masses- There are three chief collections,—a small one in the central lobe, and a larger one in each lateral lobe. The ducts of the glands vary ducts open in number from twelve to twenty, and open into the prostatic part of the urethra (p. 573). Blood-vessels. The arteries are small, and are furnished by the Arteries, inferior vesical and middle haemorrhoidal. The veins form a plexus round the gland, which receives in front the dorsal vein of the penis, veins form and is continued behind into the plexus at the base of the bladder. a P^xus. In old men these vessels may give rise to considerable haemorrhage in the operation of lithotomy. The nerves are supplied from the pelvic plexus. The lymphatics Nerves, of this body and of the vesiculas seminales are received into the Lymphatics, glands by the side of the internal iliac artery. Vesicul^e Seminales (fig. 175, e). These vesicles are two mem- seminal branous sacs, which serve as receptacles for, and probably secrete a vesicles: special fluid to mix with, the semen. They are placed at the base definition; of the bladder above the prostate, and diverge from one another so situation: as to limit laterally a triangular space in that situation : their form and relations have been already described (p. 549). Though form; sacculated and bulged above, the vesicula becomes straight and narrowed below (duct) ; and at the base of the prostate it blends with the vas deferens to form the common seminal or ejaculatory duct (g). The vesicula seminalis consists, like the epididymis, of a tube consist of a bent into a zigzag form, so as to produce lateral sacs or pouches, foldecl tul)e; the bends of which are bound together by fibrous tissue ; this cellular structure will be shown by means of a cut into it. When the bends of the vesicle are undone, its formative tube, which is about the size of a quill, measures from four to six inches in length, length and