282 DISSECTION OF FRONT OF FOREARM. ing as if it ended in the triceps, can be followed downwards to the anconeus muscle. anticusllR ^ ^n the outer side of the limb the nrasculo-spiral nerve supplies and muscles the brachialis anticus in part, and two muscles of the forearm, viz., of forearm. • , i -i < supinator longus and extensor carpi radians longior. Directions. Directions. As the dissection of the arm has been completed as far as the elbow, it will be advisable to keep moist the shoulder- joint until it is examined with the other ligaments. Section IV. THE FRONT OF THE FOREARM. Position of the limb. Surface of the forearm. Bony pro- jections. Line of the wrist-joint. Surface of palm of the hand. Position of palmar arch. Surface of the fingers. Dissection Position. The limb is to be placed with the palm of the hand uppermost; and the marking of the surface and the projections of bone are first to be noted Surface-marking. On the anterior aspect of the forearm are two lateral depressions, corresponding with the position of the main vessels. The external is placed over the radial artery, and inclines towards the middle of the limb as it approaches the elbow. The internal groove is evident only below the middle of the forearm, and points out the place of the ulnar artery. The bones (radius and ulna) are sufficiently near the surface to be traced in their whole length : each ends below in a point—the styloid process ; and that of the radius is the lower. A transverse line separates the forearm from the hand, and the articulation of the wrist is about three-quarters of an inch above it. On each side of the palm of the hand is a large projection ; the external of these (thenar) is formed by muscles of the thumb, and the internal (hypothenar) by muscles of the little finger. At the upper end of the latter the prominent pisiform bone is easily felt; and towards the outer side of the wrist, below the end of the radius, the tuberosity of the scaphoid bone is to be recognized. Between the muscular eminences is the hollow of the palm, which is pointed towards the wrist. Two transverse lines are seen in the palm, but neither reaches completely across it : they result from the bending of the fingers at the metacarpo-phalangeal articulations, but the lower one is nearly half an inch above the three inner joints when the fingers are extended. The position of the superficial palmar arch of arteries is marked by the middle third of a line across the palm from the root of the thumb, when that digit is placed at a right angle to the hand. Transverse lines on the palmar asjjects of the thumb and fingers correspond to the articulations of the phalanges ; but while the middle and lower ones are nearly opposite (about a line above) the two interphalangeal articulations, the upper one is fully half an inch below the metacarpo-phalangeal joint. Dissection. With the limb lying flat on the table, an incision is to