DORSAL SCAPULAE, VESSELS. 269 the scapula can be traced by detaching from behind forwards the scapular supraspinatus and infraspinatus muscles, so as to leave a thin layer of vessels- the fleshy fibres with the ramifying blood-vessels on the surface of the bone. In the supraspinous fossa are the suprascapular vessels and nerve, which are to be followed beneath the acromion to the infraspinous fossa ; and entering the infraspinous fossa, beneath the teres minor muscle, is the dorsal branch of the subscapular artery. The anastomosis between these vessels should be pursued in the fleshy fibres and cleaned. The suprascapular artery (a) is derived from the thyroid axis Supra- of the subclavian trunk (p. 70). After a short course in the neck artery81 it crosses over the suprascapular ligament, and passing beneath the supraspinatus muscle, ends in the infraspinous fossa, where it gives ?nds in. offsets to the infraspinatus muscle and the scapula, and anastomoses tus^and^ with the dorsal branch of the subscapular artery and the posterior scapular of the subclavian. Before entering the supraspinous fossa, it gives a small branch to gives sub- the ventral surface of the scapula ; and beneath the supraspinatus sup?aspi-and it furnishes offsets to that muscle, the bone, and the shoulder-joint. nous offsets. The companion vein of the suprascapular artery joins the external Vein, jugular vein. The suprascapular nerve (*) is a branch of the brachial plexus Suprascapu- (p. 73). When it reaches the upper border of the scapula, it enters ar uene ■ the supraspinous fossa beneath the suprascapular ligament. In the fossa it supplies two branches to the supraspinatus; and it is con- branches, tinned beneath a fibrous band to the infraspinatus muscle, in which muscular it ends. The nerve gives some articular filaments to the shoulder-joint, andarticu- and other offsets to the scapula. The POSTERIOR SCAPULAR ARTERY runs along the base of the Posterior scapula beneath the rhomboid muscles, furnishing offsets to them arterj-f* and to the surfaces of the bone. It is more fully noticed with the dissection of the back (p. 388). The dorsal scapular artery (6) is a branch of the subscapular D°k^**£f\ (p. 254), and after giving off its infrascapular offset, turns , round the axillary border of the bone opposite the posterior of the two spaces between the teres muscles. Entering the infraspinous fossa beneath the teres minor, it supplies that muscle and the infraspi- natus, and anastomoses with the suprascapular and posterior scapular arteries. It sends a considerable branch downwards between the teres muscles, towards the lower angle of the bone.