DISSECTION OF THE THORAX. 360 Trachea ends in bronchi. In the neck. Its relations in the thorax. Bronchi lie in the roots ofthe lungs are like the trachea in form. The right differs from the left in size and rela- tions. Remove the lungs. Take away heart and pericardium Surface of lung is smooth; is marked by lobules and small cells. Colour part of the trachea in the thorax, and from the branches into which it bifurcates. The trachea, or windpipe, reaches from the larynx to the lungs, and lies on the front of the spinal column. The tube begins opposite the sixth cervical vertebra; and it ends commonly at the lower border of the fourth dorsal vertebra by dividing into two pieces (bronchi), one for each lung. Its relations in the neck are described on p. 119, and its structure on p. 168. The part in the thorax remains to be studied. - In the thorax the trachea is situate with the great vessels in the superior mediastinum ; and its lower end is usually inclined some- what to the right side. Here it is covered by the arch of the aorta, by the innominate and left carotid arteries, and by the cardiac plexus of nerves. Behind the airtube is the oesophagus, which projects to the left above the arch of the aorta. On the right side are the pleura, the vagus, and the innominate artery for a short distance, after this has passed over the trachea; and on the left side lie the left subclavian artery, and the recurrent branch of the vagus. The bronchi, or the branches of the airtube, are contained in the roots of the lungs, and are surrounded by vessels, glands and nerves. Near the lung each is divided into as many primary pieces as there are lobes. In their structure and form the bronchi resemble the windpipe, for they are round and cartilaginous in front, but flat, and muscular arid membranous behind. Their position behind the other pulmonary vessels has been described at p. 336. The right bronchus is about an inch in length, and is larger than the left; it also forms a more direct continuation of the trachea, from which circumstance a foreign body in the airtube is more likely to enter this bronchus. It passes obliquely outwards, on a level with the fifth dorsal vertebra, behind the upper cava and the light pulmonary artery ; and the azygos vein arches above it. The left bronchus is about two inches long, and reaches to the level of the sixth dorsal vertebra. It is directed obliquely downwards through the arch of the aorta, and crosses behind the corresponding pulmonary artery. It lies in front of the oesophagus and descending thoracic aorta. Dissection. The lungs are now to be removed from the body by cutting through the bronchi and the small vessels of the root. The remains of the heart and pericardium are to be taken away afterwards. For their removal the inferior cava is to be divided, and the pericardium is to be detached from the surface of the diaphragm : in removing the pericardium, the dissector should be careful not to injure the things contained in the interpleural space in front of the spine. Physical characters of the lung. The surface of the lung is smooth and shining, and is invested by the pleura. Through the serous covering the mass of the lung may be seen to be divided into small irregularly shaped pieces or lobules. On looking closely at it, especially at a thin margin, minute cells will be perceived in it. The tint of the lung varies with age. In infancy the colour is a