DISSECTION OF THE CEREBELLUM. 234 Floor : objects in it are a median grove, fasciculus teres, auditory strise, The floor of the ventricle (fig. 70) is constituted by the posterior surface of the medulla oblongata and pons, and is greyish in colour. Along the centre is a median groove, which ends below, near the point of the calamus, in a minute hole—the aperture of the canal of the cord. On each side of the groove is a spindle-shaped eleva- tion, the fasciculus s. eminentia teres (ft). This eminence reaches the whole length of the floor, and is pointed and well defined below, but less distinct above. Its widest part is opposite the centre of the ventricle. Crossing the floor on each side, at the lower border of the pons, are some white lines—the audi- Fig. 70. superior and inferior fovea, ala cinerea, auditory tubercle, nucleus of sixth nerve and locus cseruleus. the tory strice (a st), which vary much in their arrangement: they issue from the median groove, and pass outwards to the auditory nerve (p. 190). The fasciculus teres is limited externally by two small depres- sions—the superior and inferior fovece, separated by the auditory strise. The superior (fs) is the broader, and is connected to the lower one by a faint groove. The inferior fovea (fi) is well marked,, and has the form of the letter V inverted. The triangular portion between the two branches is of a darker colour than the surface on each side, and is named the ala cinerea (fig. 71, ac) : it corre- sponds to the nucleus of the vagus nerve. On the outer side of the fovea the surface is elevated over the principal nucleus of the auditory tubercle (at), which is crossed auditory nerve, forming by the auditory strise. In the upper half of the floor of the ventricle there may be seen, on the inner side of the superior fovea, a rounded elevation of the fasciculus teres, produced by the nucleus of the sixth nerve, with the deep part of the facial arching round it (p. 189). And lastly, above the superior fovea is a narrow, slightly depressed area of a bluish colour (locus cseruleus), caused by a deposit of very dark grey substance (substantia ferruginea) beneath the thin surface-layer. * Back of medulla oblongata and pons, showing the floor of the fourth ventricle. /. Fillet, sp. Superior, nip. Middle, and ip. Inferior peduncle of the cerebellum : attached to the superior peduncle on the left side is the half of the superior medullary velum, covered by the lingula. ft. Fasciculus teres. fs. Superior fovea, fi. Inferior fovea. a st. Auditory striae. rb. Restiform body. cl. Clava. Crossing the restiform body of the right side, below the auditory strise, is the ligula.