DISSECTION OF THE PERINEUM. (superficial perineal) may be seen on the right side, where they lie for a short distance in the fat of the hollow. and dorsal The dorsal nerve of the penis accompanies the pudic artery along nerve of the ^ outer side of the ischio-rectal fossa to the fore part of the penis. r perineum. It is also enclosed in the obturator fascia, but is deeper than the blood-vessels. Offset of The PERINEAL BRANCH OF THE FOURTH SACRAL NERVE (3) reaches ncrveh SaCral ^e ischi°-rectal fossa between the levator ani and coccygeus, or by piercing one of these muscles, near the coccyx, and ends by supply- ing the external sphincter. Perforating The perforating cutaneous nerve is an offset from the lowest nervee°US Par* °^ ^e sacral plexus, and is named from its piercing the great sacro-sciatic ligament in its course to the perineum (fig. 123, 5). Turning upwards round the lower edge of the gluteus maximus, its branches are distributed to the skin of the inner and lower part of the gluteal region (fig. 132, 4). ANTERIOR HALF OF THE PERINEAL SPACE. Urethral half: contents and general position of parts. Incisions to raise the skin. Blow up superficial fascia, and reflect it. Define parti- tion between thigh and perineal space. On right side seek inferior In the anterior part of the perineal space are lodged the crura of the penis, and the tube of the urethra as it courses from the interior of the pelvis to the surface of the body. Placed midway between the bones, the urethra is supported by the triangular ligament of the perineum, and by its union with the penis. Muscles are collected around the urethra and the crura of the penis : most of these are superficial to, but one is within the trian- gular ligament. The vessels and nerve lie along the outer side, as in the posterior half, and send inwards offsets. Dissection (fig. 133). To raise the skin from the anterior half of the perineum, a transverse cut is to be made at the back of the scrotum, and is to be continued for a short distance (two inches) on each thigh. A second incision along the middle line will allow the flaps of skin to be reflected outwards. After the removal of the skin, the superficial fascia which covers the front of the perineal space is to be blown up by means of a pipe introduced beneath it posteriorly. Each side is to be inflated to demonstrate a partition along the mid- dle line, and a septum between the perineal space and the thigh, which prevents the air passing to the limb. The student is next to cut through the superficial fascia on the left side from the scrotum to the ischio-rectal fossa ; and after reflecting it, and removing loose fatty tissue, its line of attachment to the bone externally, and to the triangular ligament posteriorly, will be brought into view. The septum along the middle line should be also defined. To show more completely the attachment of this layer to the hip- bone between the perineal space and the thigh, it will be necessary to take away from the left limb the fat on the fascia lata, external to the margin of the bone. In the fat of the thigh on the right side the student should seek the inferior pudendal nerve, which pierces the fascia lata one inch