LYMPHATICS AND THOKACIC DUCT. 367 Some compound glands (oesophageal) are scattered along the tube, Some and are most numerous at the lower end of the gullet. glands. Lymphatics op the Thorax. In the thorax are lymphatic vessels Lymphatics of the wall and the v iscera, which enter collections of glands, and tnora^c end in one or other of the lymphatic ducts. Besides these, the large thoracic duct traverses the thorax in its course from the abdomen to the neck. Lymphatic glands. Along the course of the internal mammary sternal artery lies a chain of sternal glands, which receive lymphatics from Slauds- the upper part of the abdominal wall, the front of the chest, the mamma, and the fore part of the diaphragm. On each side of the spine, near the heads of the ribs, as well as Intercostal, between the intercostal muscles, is placed a group of intercostal glands for the reception of the lymphatics of the posterior wall of the thorax. Three or four anterior mediastinal glands lie in the fore part of Anterior the interpleural space, and receive lymphatics from the upper surface mediastinaL ■of the liver and the diaphragm. Numerous bronchial glands are situate at the division of the Bronchial, trachea, and along the bronchi; through them the lymphatics of the lung pass. Along the side of the aorta and oesophagus is a chain of posterior Posterior mediastinal glands, which are joined by the lymphatics of the mediastmal- cesophagus, and hinder parts of the pericardium and diaphragm. Along the front and lower border of the arch of the aorta are the Superior superior mediastinal or cardiac glands, which receive the lymphatics mediastinal- of the heart, the pericardium, and the thymus. The thoracic duct (fig. 109,1) is the main channel by which Thoracic the lymph of the lower half of the body, and of the left side of the duct upper half of the body, as well as the chyle, is conveyed into the blood. The duct begins in the abdomen in an enlargement begins in (receptaculum chyli ; p. 534), and ends in the veins of the left side of men and the neck. It is from fifteen to eighteen inches in length, and is ^ndsiu contained in the thorax, except at its origin and termination. It has the following course and relations :— Entering the cavity through the same opening as the aorta, the Relations duct ascends on the right side of that vessel as high as the arch, thorax. Opposite the fourth dorsal vertebra it passes beneath the aortic arch, and is then applied to the left side of the oesophagus, on which it is conducted to the neck under the left subclavian artery. At the lower part of the neck the duct arches outwards, as before described (p. 116), to open into the left subclavian vein at its junction with the internal jugular. In this course the tube is oftentimes divided in two, which unite it may be again ; or its divisions may even form a plexus. Near its termina- dmded > tion it is frequently branched. It is provided with valves at inter- is furnished vals, like a vein; and these are in greatest number at the upper WI va veS ' part. Branches. In the thorax the duct receives the lymphatics of the receives left half of the cavity, viz., from the sternal and intercostal glands ; JS^tics"1"