DISSECTION OF THE ABDOMEN. 516 Three coats to ureter : fibrous, muscular, and mucous The calices also three coats. Structure. The chief part of the wall of the ureter is composed of a muscular coat, in which there is an outer layer of circular, and an inner layer of longitudinal fibres (Henle). This has an external investment of fibrous tissue, and is lined by mucous membrane. The calices resemble the rest of the duct in having a fibrous, a muscular, and a mucous coat. Around the base of the papilla the outer coat of the calyx is continuous with the enveloping tunic of the kidney ; and at the apex the mucous lining is prolonged into the uriniferous tubes through the small openings. Vessels. Vessels. The arteries are numerous but small, and are furnished by the renal, spermatic, internal iliac, and inferior vesical. The veins correspond with the arteries. Lymphatics. The lymphatics are received into those of the kidney. THE SUPRARENAL BODY. Suprarenal capsule: use un- known ; no duct. Situation ; colour; and form. Hilum. Size and weight. Relations. Consists of two parts, with a fibrous capsule. Cortical and medullary parts. This small body, the use of which is unknown, has received its name from its position to the kidney. Its vessels and nerves are numerous, but it is not provided with any excretory duct. One on each side, it is situate on the upper end of the kidney, with an inclination to the inner side ; and without care it may be removed with the surrounding fat, which it resembles. Its colour is a brownish yellow. It is rather triangular in shape, and flattened from before back, but with the upper angle rounded off, and the base or lower part hollowed, where it touches the kidney. On the anterior surface is a transverse tissue, termed the hilum, where the vein issues. In the adult it measures about one inch and a half in depth, and rather less in width ; and its weight is between one and two drachms, but the left is commonly larger than the right. Areolar tissue attaches the suprarenal body to the kidney ; and the vessels and nerves retain it in place. The relations to surround- ing parts are the same as those of the upper end of the kidney. Thus, it rests on the diaphragm on both sides ; while in front of the right is the liver, and in front of the left the pancreas and the stomach. On the inner side of the right capsule are the vena cava and the solar plexus ; and internal to the left are the aorta, with the coeliac axis, and the solar plexus. Obvious structure. A vertical section of a fresh suprarenal body shows it to be formed of an external or cortical layer, and an internal or medullary substance. The whole is surrounded by a thin fibrous capsule, which sends processes into the interior, and along the blood-vessels. The cortical part is of a deep yellow colour, and firm. It forms about two-thirds of the thickness of the whole body, and in the section appears striated perpendicularly to the free surface of the organ. The medullary part is dark brown or nearly black, and very soft and pulpy. If the specimen is not fresh, it may look as if the cortical part enclosed a cavity.