DISSECTION OF MECKEL'S GANGLION. 139 difficult task, in consequence of the nerves and vessels being con- tained in osseous canals which require to be opened. The branches are first to be sought, and these are then to be followed to the ganglion and main trunk. Dissection. The left half of the head is to be used for the dis- Dissection play of the ganglion and its branches ; but the student will derive advantage from first attempting the dissection on the remains of the right side. To lay bare the branches to the palate, detach the soft parts in of palatine the roof of the mouth from the bone, until the nerves and vessels and escaping from the posterior palatine canals are arrived at. Cut off, with the bone forceps, the posterior part of the hard palate to a level with the vessels and nerves ; and cleaning these, trace offsets behind into the soft palate, and follow the main pieces forwards to the front of the mouth. Take away, without injury to the naso-palatine nerve and vessels inches. (already found), the hinder portion of the loose piece of mucous membrane detached from the septum nasi; and separate the mucous membrane from the outer wall of the nasal fossa, behind the spongy bones, as high as the spheno-palatine foramen. In reflecting for- wards the membrane many branches of vessels and nerves will be seen entering it through the foramen ; but these may be left for the present, and directions for their dissection will be subsequently given. When the lining membrane of the nose has been removed behind the spongy bones, the palatine nerves and vessels will appear through the thin translucent palate bone, and may be readily reached by breaking carefully through the latter with a chisel. Afterwards, the tube of membrane containing the palatine vessels and nerves being opened, these are to be followed down to the soft palate and the roof of the mouth, and upwards to the ganglion which is close to the body of the sphenoid bone. To bring the ganglion fully into view, it will be necessary to saw b°^r°fn. through the overhanging body of the sphenoid bone, to cut away san° 10n' pieces of the bones surrounding the hollow in which it lies, and to remove with care the enveloping fat and the periosteum. The ganglion then appears as a flattened reddish-looking body, from which the Vidian and pharyngeal nerves pass backwards. Besides the branches referred to, the student should seek two large nerves from the top of the ganglion to join the superior maxillary trunk, and smaller offsets to the floor of the orbit. To trace backwards the Vidian branch to the carotid plexus and Vidian the facial nerve, the student must lay open the canal which contains nerve' it and its artery in the root of the pterygoid process ; and in doing this he must define the small pharyngeal branches of nerve and artery which are superficial to the Vidian, and lie in the pterygo- palatine canal. At the back of the Vidian canal, a small branch from the nerve to the plexus on the internal carotid artery is to be looked for. Lastly, the prolongation of the Vidian nerve (large superficial petrosal) is to be followed into the skull through the dense tissue in the foramen lacerum, after cutting away the point of