DISSECTION OF THE FACE. 36 beyond parotid, on temple. in eyelids, in the face, on lower jaw. The nerve in the parotid, and muscu- lar branches, Branches outside the skull. Posterior] auricular branch. Branch to digastric. Branch to stylo-hyoid. Division into two. of the nerve is concealed by the parotid gland, but its ramifications are mostly in front of the glandular mass. To expose the branches of the nerve beyond the parotid gland, raise the skin from the face in the same manner as on the left side. The different branches are then to be sought as they escape from beneath the anterior border of the gland, and are to be followed forwards to their termination. The highest branches to the temple have already been partly dissected above the zygomatic arch ; and their junction with the temporal branch of the superior maxillary, and with the supraorbital nerve has been seen. Some still smaller branches are to be traced to the outer part of the orbit, where they enter the eyelids and communicate with the other palpebral nerves ; as these cross the malar bone, a junction is to be found with the subcutaneous malar branch of the fifth nerve. With the duct of the parotid are two or more large branches, which are to be followed below the orbit to their junction with the infraorbital, nasal, and infratrochlear nerves. The remaining branches to the lower part of the face are smaller in size. One joins with the buccal nerve over the iower part of the buccinator muscle ; and one or two others are to he traced forwards to the lower lip, and to the mental branch of the inferior dental nerve. To follow backwards the trunk of the nerve through the gland, the integuments should be taken from the surface of the parotid as on the other side, and the gland should be removed piece by piece. In this proceeding its small branches of communication with the great auricular nerve, and the deep branches joining it from the auriculo-temporal nerve (of the fifth) are to be sought. Lastly, the first small branches of the facial to the ear and to the digastric and stylo-hyoid muscles are to be looked for close to the base of the skull before the nerve enters the parotid. The Facial Nerve outside the Skull (fig. 9,15). The nerve issues from the stylo-mastoid foramen, after traversing the aqueduct of Fallopius, and furnishes immediately the three following small branches :— The posterior auricular branch (fig. 9,4) turns upwards in front of the mastoid process, where it communicates with an offset of the great auricular, and is also joined by a branch to the ear from the pneumo-gastric nerve; it ends in auricular and mastoid offsets (p. 8). The branch to the digastric muscle arises generally in common with the next. It is distributed by several offsets to the posterior belly of the muscle near the skull. The branch to the stylo-hyoid is a long slender nerve, which is directed inwards, arid enters its muscle about the middle. This branch communicates with the sympathetic nerve on the external carotid artery. As soon as the facial nerve has given off these branches, it is directed forwards through the gland, and divides near the ramus of the jaw into two large trunks—temporo-facial and cervico-facial.