709 LIGAMENTS OF METATARSAL BONES. In standing and in progression these bones are separated some- what from each other with diminution of the arch of the foot, and stretching of the transverse ligaments which connect them. Articulation of the metatarsal bones. The bases of the four outer metatarsal bones are connected together by dorsal, plantar, and interosseous ligaments ; and where their lateral parts touch, they are covered with cartilage, and have offsets of a synovial sac. The dorsal ligaments (fig. 222) are small transverse bands from the base of one metatarsal bone to the next. The plantar ligaments (fig. 220) are similar to the dorsal. The interosseous ligaments are short transverse fibres between the con- tiguous rough lateral surfaces : they may be Fig. 222.* afterwards seen by forcibly separating the bones. Lateral union. The four outer bones touch one another laterally ; the second metatarsal lies against the internal and external cunei- forms ; and the fourth is in contact inter- nally with the outer cuneiform. The articulating surfaces are covered with car- tilage ; and their synovial cavities are offsets of those serving for the articulation of the same four metatarsal with the tarsal bones. The metatarsal bone of the great toe, like that of the thumb, is not united to the others at its base by any intervening bands. The distal ends of the five metatarsal bones are united by the transverse metatarsal ligament; this has been described on page 680. Tarsal with metatarsal bones. These articulations resemble the like parts in the hand, as there is a .separate joint for the great toe, and a common one for the four outer metatarsals. Articulation of the great toe. The articular ends of the bones are encased by a capsule, and are provided with an upper and a lower longitudinal band to give strength to the joint : the lower band is placed between prolongations from the tendons of the tibialis anticus and peroneus longus. A simple synovial sac serves for the articulation. The articular surfaces are oval from above down, curved inwards, and constricted in the middle ; that of the metatarsal bone is exca- and joints in standing. Union of the meta- tarsus by dorsal, plantar, and interos- seous liga- ments. Joint of great toe separate from rest: synovial sac. Form of bones. Movement. There is an oblique movement of the metatarsal bone down and in and up and out, like that of the internal cuneiform with the navicular bone ; and this will contribute a little to inver- sion and eversion of the foot. Motion up and down, * Dorsal ligaments uniting the tarsus to the metatarsus, and the metatarsal bones to each other behind (Bourgery).