745 COCHLEAE, PASSAGES. m b) reaches from the lower (tympanic) edge (c) of the lamina includes spiralis to the outer wall of the cochlear tube, where it is fixed by brane*m6m* a fibrous band—ligamentum spirale (4). Its width varies, for near and spiral the base of the cochlea it forms half of the partition across the tube ; ^a™511*- but at the apex, where the lamina spiralis is wanting, it constructs the septum altogether. SCAL^E OF THE COCHLEA (fig. 238). The tube of the cochlea is Scalseof divided by the septum into two primary passages, of which one is fear tube: the scala tympani (s t), and the other scala vestibuli (s v) ; but the latter is rendered smaller by a third canal being cut off from it by membrane. These passages are placed one above another, the scala vestibuli position; (s v) being nearest the apex of the cochlea. Above, they communi- extent; cate through the aperture named helicotrema (/). Below, they end joined differently, as the names express ;—the scala vestibuli opens into above' the front of the vestibule (fig. 236, g) ; but the scala tympani is ^*™*e shut out from the vestibular cavity by the lamina spiralis of the septum cochleae, and is closed below by the membrane of the fenestra rotunda, though in the dry bone it opens into the tympanum. Each has certain peculiarities. The vestibular scala extends into they differ the apex of the cochlea ; while the tympanic scala is largest near antUize; the base. Connected with the last is the small aqueduct of the cochlea, which begins at an opening close to the lower end of the opening in scala, and ends at the lower border of the petrous portion of the ow ' temporal bone : it transmits a small vein from the cochlea. The scalse are clothed with a thin fibrous membrane, continuous lining with that in the vestibule : in the scala tympani it helps to close membrane> the fenestra rotunda, forming the inner layer of the secondary membrane of the tympanum, and joins the fibrous process in the aqueduct of the cochlea. The perilymph fills both scalae. tents. Canal of the cochlea. In the upper division of the cochlear Cochlear tube a fine membrane (fig. 239,1) extends oblicpuely across from the between upper surface of the lamina spiralis, at the inner border of the basilar limbus, to the outer wall of the cavity a little above the spiral membralie ligament. This is called the membrane of Eeissner, and separates a and mem- small cavity named the canal or duct of the cochlea (c c) from the scala Reissner; vestibuli (s v). The canal thus formed extends from apex to base of the cochlea, and contains a fluid—endolymph. Above, it reaches into ^j^^ the cupola and is closed. Below, it is connected by a very small tube saccule (canalis reuniens; fig. 240, c) with the saccule in the vestibule. below; Within the canal of the cochlea, resting on the basilar membrane, is the complicated structure known as the organ of Gorti (fig. 239), in contains which the cochlear branches of the auditory nerve end. Corti! ° Membranous Labyrinth (fig. 240). Lodged in the vestibule The mem- are two membranous sacs, the utricle and saccule, from the former j^yrinlh of which tubular offsets are continued into the semicircular canals, consists of These, together with the canal of the cochlea and the organ of Corti, saccule', which have been referred to above, make up the membranous semicircular . ii- -i canals, and labyrinth. The sacs and their prolongations are immersed in the cochlear canal.