DISSECTION OF THE FACE. 30 and frame- work. Nasal cartilages. Take away tissue from surface. The upper cartilage joins the septal. Fif The lower surrounds aperture ; not inserted into hone. One part outside; accessory- cartilages ; another in- side nostril. Appendages of the eye. Eyebrow. dorsum., the upper part of which is known also as the bridge. The lower and posterior part of each lateral surface is convex and marked off by a curved groove, constituting the ala. The base presents the oval apertures of the nostrils or anterior nares, separated by a short thick partition, the septum narium or columna nasi. The shape of the nose is maintained by a framework consisting of the nasal bones and the nasal processes of the superior maxillary bones above, and of the cartilages of the nose below, in the part corresponding to the anterior nasal aperture of the skull. Cartilages of the Nose (fig. 7). These are five in number, one in the centre, the cartilage of the septum, and two on each side, the lateral cartilage and the cartilage of the aperture. They are all hyaline cartilage, but do not show any tendency to become ossified. Only the. lateral cartilages are learnt in this stage of the dissection. Dissection. The lateral cartilages will be seen when the muscular and fibrous structures of the left side of the nose have been taken away. By turning aside the lateral cartilages the septal one will appear in the middle line. The lateral cartilage (upper lat. cart., fig. 7, 2) is flattened, and triangular in form. Posteriorly it is attached to the nasal and upper maxillary bones; and anteriorly it joins the cartilage of the septum above, but is separated from it by a narrow cleft below. Inferiorly, the lateral cartilage is con- tiguous to the cartilage of the aperture, and is connected to it by fibrous tissue. The cartilage of the aperture (lower lat. cart., fig. 7) forms a ring around the opening of the nose excej)t behind. It has not any attachment directly to bone ; but it is united above to the lateral cartilage by fibrous tissue, and below with the dense teguments forming the ala of the nose and the margin of the nostril. The part of the cartilage (3) which bounds the opening externally is narrow and pointed behind, where it forms two or three vertical folds, and sometimes becomes divided into as many small pieces— cartilagines minores vel sesamoidem ; but it swells out in front where it touches its fellow, and forms the apex of the nose. The inner part (4) is shorter and narrower. It projects backwards in the columna nasi below the level of the anterior end of the septal cartilage, being attached to this and to its fellow of the opposite side by fibrous tissue, and reaches nearly to the superior maxillary bone. The Appendages of the Eye include the eyebrow, the eyelid, and the lachrymal apparatus. Some of these can be examined now on the opposite side of the face. The apparatus for the tears will be dissected after the orbit has been completed. The eyebroiv (supercilium) is a curved eminence just above the * Cartilages of the nose. 1. Septal cartilage. 2. Lateral cartilage. 3. Cartilage of the aperture, its outer part, and 4, its inner part. 5. Nasal bo e.