OBTURATOR. NERVE AND BRANCHES. «27 well as the hip and knee-joints. The nerve issues from the pelvis through the aperture in the upper part of the thyroid foramen ; and is divided it divides in that opening into two pieces, which are named super-1Ilto tw0, ficial and deep, from their position with respect to the adductor brevis muscle. A. The superficial part (*) of the nerve is directed over the adduc- Thesuper- ficial part tor brevis, but beneath the pectineus and the adductor longus, to the femoral artery, on which it is distributed : at the lower border femoral of the last muscle it furnishes an offset or two, which join in a artery, and plexus with the internal cutaneous and saphenous nerves (p. 622), ^^^flf. and often help to supply the integuments.* In the aperture of exit, this piece of the nerve sends outwards an branches are articular twig to the hip-joint. to hip"j°mt' Muscular branches are furnished to the adductor longus, the ad- muscular to ductor brevis, and the gracilis. adductors. B. The deep part (4) of the obturator nerve pierces the fibres of Deep part of 1116 116rV6 the external obturator muscle, and, continuing beneath the adductor brevis, is consumed chiefly in the adductor magnus. The following offsets are supplied by it :— Muscular branches enter the obturator externus as the nerve ^j^£or pierces it; others are furnished to the large, and sometimes to the magnus, short adductor. A slender articular branch (fig. 183,5) enters the fibres of the ^n|^ adductor magnus, and passes through this near the linea aspera to knee-joint, reach the popliteal artery, by which it is conducted to the back of the knee-joint : its termination is seen in the dissection of the pop- liteal space (p. 649). Dissection. To prepare the profunda artery and its branches, as Dissect pro- far as they are to be seen on the front of the thigh, it will be requisite to follow back the internal circumflex artery above the upper border of the adductor brevis, and to trace the perforating branches to the apertures in the adductors near the femur. The profunda (fig. 193, c) is the chief muscular artery of the Profunda thigh, and arises from the femoral about an inch and a half below artery" Poupart's ligament (p. 613). At its origin the vessel is placed on origin, the outer side of the parent trunk ; but it is soon directed inwards course, beneath the femoral vessels to the inner side of the femur, and ends and ending; at the lower third of the thigh in a small branch that pierces the adductor magnus. Where the vessel lies in the triangular space of the thigh it rests Parts J •t 1-. i - --iP-in •• around, on the lhacus muscle. But on the inner side of the femur it is parallel to the femoral artery, though deeper in position; and it is * In some bodies the superficial part of the nerve is of large size and has a distribution similar to that of the inner branch of the internal cutaneous nerve, the place of which it takes : in such instances it joins freely in the plexus. and 4. The deep part. 3. Cutaneous branch of the obturator. 5. Articular branch to the knee from the deep part. 6. Anterior crural nerve. 7. Internal saphenous, and 10. Its patellar branch. 8. Nerve to the vastus internus, and 9. Its articular branch to the knee. s s 2