DISSECTION OF THE CEREBELLUM. 228 together with the position of the anterior commissure will be appa- rent. geniculate Cuts may also be made into the geniculate bodies to show the bodies, grey nucjej within them. andmesen- Finally, by dividing transversely the left half of the mid-brain eephalon. through the superior quadrigeminal body, there will be seen the grey matter of that eminence, the crusta and tegmentum separated by the substantia nigra, the red nucleus of the tegmentum, and the grey matter of the Sylvian aqueduct. Section V. THE CEREBELLUM. Prepare cerebellum. Parts to bi separated from one another. Form and position of cerebellum. Division into two. No groove on the upper surface ; halves joined by upper worm. A hollow below, which is called valley, Dissection. The cerebellum (fig. 59, 6) is to be separated from the remains of the cerebrum by carrying the knife through the optic thalamus, so that the small brain, the corpora quadrigemina, the crura cerebri, the pons, and the medulla oblongata may remain united together. Any remaining pia mater is to be carefully removed from the median groove on the under surface ; and the different bodies in that hollow are to be separated from one another. Lastly, the handle of the scalpel should be passed along a deep sulcus at the circumference, which is continued from the crus, between the upper and under surfaces. The cerebellum or small brain (fig. 68) is oval in shape, and flattened from above down. Its longest diameter, which is directed transversely, measures about four inches. This part of the en eephalon is situate in the posterior fossa of the base of the skull, beneath the tentorium cerebelli. Like the cerebrum, it is incom- pletely divided into two hemispheres ; the division being marked by a wide median groove along the under surface, and by a notch at the posterior border into which the falx cerebelli projects. The narrower part uniting the two hemispheres is known as the worm (vermis). Upper surface. On the upper aspect the cerebellum is raised in the centre, and sloped towards the sides. There is not any median sulcus on this surface ; and the hemispheres are united by a central constricted part—the superior vermiform process. Separat- ing the upper from the under surface, at the circumference, is the horizontal fissure, which extends from the crus cerebelli in front to the median notch behind. The under surface of the cerebellum is convex on each side, where it is received into the lower fossa? of the occipital bone ; and the hemispheres are separated by a median hollow—vallecula (fig. 68), which is widest in front where it lodges the upper end of the medulla oblongata : the hinder end of the vallecula is continued into the notch at the posterior border, and receives the falx