491 EPIGASTRIC PLEXUS. SYMPATHETIC AND VAGUS NERVES. Sympathetic Nerve. In the abdomen, as in the thorax, the General dis- sympathetic nerve consists of a gangliated cord on each side of the nerves.11 °f vertebral column, and of prevertebral centres or plexuses, which furnish branches to the viscera. The chief prevertebral plexuses in the abdomen are the epigastric Two large or solar and the hypogastric. The epigastric plexus is placed ' behind the stomach, and supplies nerves to all the viscera above the eP1sastric cavity of the pelvis : it is continued downwards to the hypogastric and hypo- plexus by the aortic plexus (p. 483). The hypogastric plexus dis- gastnc' tributes nerves to the pelvic viscera, and has already been noticed (p. 483). The knotted or gangliated cord will be met with in a subsequent stage of the dissection ; and only the great solar plexus with its offsets is to be now examined. Dissection. To denude the epigastric plexus, the following dissec- How to lay tion is to be made :—After the air has been let out of the stomach plexus,ar and duodenum, the portal vein, the common bile-duct, and the gastro-duodenal artery are to be cut through near the pylorus ; and the stomach, duodenum, and pancreas are to be drawn over to the left side. On raising the liver, the vena cava appears ; this is to be cut across above the junction of the renal veins with it, and the lower end is to be drawn down with hooks. Beneath the vein the dissector will find the large reddish semi- and the lunar ganglion of the right side ; and mixed up with the nerves of the ganglia!*1 plexus are numerous lymphatic glands (cceliac glands), with a dense tissue, which require to be removed with care. From its inner part he can trace the numerous nerves and ganglia around the coeliac and superior mesenteric arteries, and the secondary plexuses on the branches of those arteries. From the outer part of the ganglion offsets are to be followed to the kidney, the suprarenal body, and the diaphragmatic arteries. At its upper end the junction with the large splanchnic nerve may be seen ; and deeper than the last, one or two smaller splanchnic nerves may be found as they issue through a, fissure of the diaphragm, and throw themselves into the cceliac and renal plexuses. The student should then trace the ending of the pneumo-gastric Follow the nerves on the stomach. The left nerve will be found at the small +?5ln„g°! 1116 VagUS curvature in front, near the oesophagus ; and the right nerve will nerves, be seen at a corresponding spot on the opposite aspect. Branches from the right nerve are to be followed to the plexus of the sympa- thetic by the side of the cceliac axis ; and from the left, to the hepatic plexus. The epigastric or solar plexus is a large network of nerves Solar and ganglia, which lies in front of the aorta and pillars of the plexus: diaphragm, and behind the pancreas and inferior cava : it fills the aPPearance space between the suprarenal capsules of opposite sides, and sur- and extent > rounds the cceliac axis and the superior mesenteric artery. The plexus is connected on each side with the large and small splanchnic