DISSECTION OF THE THORAX. 340 and append- ages. Ventricles : right, and left. Dissect coronary- vessels and nerves, and coro- nary sinus. Two arteries of the heart, viz., right coro- nary, and left coronary: Cardiac veins. Coronary sinus : veins join- ing it; valves. tapering part known as the auricular appendix or auricle proper, so- called from its resemblance to a dog's ear. The ventricles reach unequal distances on the two aspects of the heart ;—thus the right one forms the thin right border and most of the anterior surface ; but the left enters alone into the apex, and constructs the left border, and the greater part of the posterior sur- face of the heart. Dissection. Before opening the heart, the coronary arteries are to be dissected on the surface, with the veins and small nerves that accompany them. The two arteries appear on the sides of the pulmonary artery, and run in the grooves on the surface of the heart, where they are surrounded by fat: one branches over the right, and the other over the left side. With each artery is a plexus of nerves, and that of the right side is to be followed upwards to the superficial cardiac plexus. In the groove between the left auricle and ventricle the student will find the large coronary vein, passing at the back into the dilated coronary sinus : the last should be defined and followed to its ending in the right auricle. The coronary arteries are the first branches of the aorta, and supply the heart, one being distributed mainly on the right side, and the other on the left. The right artery appears on the right side of the pulmonary trunk, and is directed backwards in the groove between the right auricle and ventricle, giving branches upwards and downwards. Two of these are larger than the rest ; one runs on the anterior surface of the right ventricle near the free margin; and the other descends in the posterior interventricular furrow to the apex of the heart. A small branch is continued to the left side of the heart, lying in the hinder part of the left auriculo-ventricular groove. The left artery passes outwards behind the pulmonary trunk to the left side of that vessel, where it divides into two branches. Of these, the anterior is the larger, and descends on the front of the heart in the groove between the two ventricles to the apex ; while the posterior runs backwards between the left auricle and ventricle. The branches of the two coronary arteries communicate on the surface of the heart, but their anastomoses are very fine. The veins of the heart (fig. 103) differ in their arrangement from the arteries, and are for the most part collected into one large trunk—the coronary sinus. The coronary sinus (fig. 103,1) will be seen on raising the heart to be placed in the sulcus between the left auricle and ventricle. About an inch usually in length, it is joined at the one end by the great cardiac vein (4) ; and at the other it opens into the right auricle. It is crossed by the muscular fibres of the left auricle. Inferiorly and at its. right end it receives some branches from the back of the ventricles (+), and at its left extremity another small vein (2), the oblique vein (Marshall), which descends to it along the back of the left auricle. On slitting up the sinus with the scissors the openings of its