740 DISSECTION OF THE EAR. to otic ganglion. Nerves for the muscles. Chorda tympani cavity. Branch of vagus to the outer ear. Labyrinth formed of osseous and mem- branous parts. Constitu- ents of the osseous part. Vestibule : dissection to see it: form and dimensions: apertures before and behind ; in outer wall; crest on inner wall, with fossa in front, petrosal, and is continued forwards through the substance of the temporal bone, to end in the otic ganglion (p. 146). Nerves to muscles. The tensor tympani muscle is supplied by a branch from the otic ganglion (fig. 235, 9); and the stapedius re- ceives an offset from the facial trunk. The chorda tympani (fig. 235, 8) is a branch of the facial nerve (p. 145). Entering the cavity behind, it crosses the membrana tympani, lying on the inner side of the handle of the malleus, and issues from the space by an aperture internal to the Glaserian fissure ; it joins the lingual nerve, and its farther course to the tongue is described at page 92. The auricular branch of the vagus, though not a nerve of the tympanum, may now be traced in the softened bone. Arising in the jugular fossa (p. 110), the nerve enters a special canal, and crosses through the substance of the temporal bone to the back of the ear. Internal Ear or Labyrinth. The inner portion of the organ of hearing consists of a complex chamber surrounded by dense bone, within which are included sacs containing fluid, for the terminal expansion of the auditory nerve. The Osseous Labyrinth comprises the vestibule, the semicircular canals, and the cochlea : in the macerated bone these communicate externally with the tympanum, and internally, through the meatus auditorius internus, with the cranial cavity. The vestibule (fig. 236), or the central cavity of the osseous labyrinth, is placed behind the cochlea, but in front of the semi- circular canals. Dissection. This space may be seen on the dry bone which has been used for the preparation of the tympanum. The bone is to be sawn through vertically close to the inner wall of the tympanum, so as to lay bare the fenestra ovalis leading into the vestibule. By enlarging the fenestra ovalis a very little in a direction upwards and forwards, the vestibular space will appear; and the end of the superior semicircular canal will be opened. Other views of the cavity may be obtained by sections of the temporal bone in different directions, according to the opportunities and skill of the dissector. The vestibular space (fig. 236) is ovoidal in form, and the ex- tremities are directed forwards and backwards. The larger end is turned back, and the under part or floor is more narrowed than the upper part or roof. It measures about one-fifth of an inch in length ; but it is narrower from without inwards. The following objects are to be noted on the boundaries of the space. In front, close to the outer wall, is a large aperture (g) leading into the cochlea ; and behind are five round openings of the three semicircular canals (d, e, /). The outer wall corresponds with the tympanum, and in it is the aperture of the fenestra ovalis. On the inner wall, nearer the front than the back of the cavity, is a vertical ridge or crest (b). In front of the crest is a circular depression, fovea hemispherica (a),