DISSECTION OF THE PELVIS. 550 and sheath Vas deferens: course ; unites with duct from vesicula. Urethra length ; curves; division. Prostatic. Membra- nous : Spongy. Fixed curvi of urethra: extent; with the pouch of the peritoneum the triangular space at the base of the bladder. The vesiculse are contained in a membranous sheath, which is derived from the recto-vesical fascia, and is lined by invol- untary muscular fibres. The vas deferens or the excretory duct of the testis (fig. 170,/) in its course to the urethra enters the abdomen by the internal abdominal ring, and crossing the obliterated hypogastric artery, is directed downwards along the hinder part of the bladder to the base of the prostate, where it forms the common seminal or ejaculatory duct by joining with the duct from the vesicula seminalis. The position of this tube to the external iliac artery has been noticed ; on the bladder it passes internal to the ureter and the vesicula of the same side. By the side of the vesicula the duct is much enlarged, and is sacculated. The urethra is the excretory passage for the urine and semen (fig. 170), and reaches from the bladder to the end of the penis. In length it measures about eight inches, and it presents one or two curves according to the state of the penis. At first the canal is directed downwards and forwards through the triangular ligament of the perineum to the root of the penis, forming a large curve with the concavity to the pubis. Thence to its termination the urethra is contained in the penis ; and while this body remains pendent the canal forms a second bend with the concavity downwards; but if the penis is raised the tube makes but one curve. The canal is divided into three parts,—prostatic, membranous, and spongy. The prostatic part (b) is contained in the prostate gland, and receives its name from that circumstance. Its length is about one inch and a quarter, and in the erect posture of the body it descends nearly vertically to the triangular ligament. The membranous part (c), about three-quarters of an inch long, intervenes between the apex of the prostate and the lower surface of the triangular ligament. It slants forwards in the erect posture to the lower part of the triangular ligament ; and as the bulb of the next portion of the urethral tube is directed backwards below it, the under surface measures only half an inch. This division of the urethra is the weakest; but it is supported by the triangular ligament (n). Surrounding it are the muscular fibres of the constrictor urethras ; and close behind it are Cowper's glands and the rectum. The spongy part (d) is so named from its being surrounded by a cellulo-vascular structure. It is applied to and assists to form the body of the penis, and terminates anteriorly in the orifice named meatus urinarius at the end of the glans. It is the longest part of the urethra, and measures about six inches. At its commencement this division of the excretory canal is covered by the ejaculator urinaa muscle (fig. 133). The curve of the urethra is the fixed bend at the hinder part of the canal which lies behind the pubis. It extends from the bladder to an inch and a half in front of the aperture in the triangular ligament, and comprises the prostatic and membranous portions,