CORPUS STRIATUM. 221 through the foramen of Monro ; and behind is a passage beneath the posterior commissure into the fourth ventricle, which is named aqueduct of Sylvius. In the floor, in front, there is a depression opposite the infundibulum, where the cavity at an early period of foetal life was prolonged into the pituitary body. The ependyma lining the ventricle is continued into the neigh- Lainj"Sof bouring cavities through the different apertures of communication, and its epithelium is continued over the choroid plexuses in the roof. Grey matter of the ventricle. A stratum of grey matter forms the Grey matter lower part of the wall of the ventricle. Portions of this layer ventricle, appearing at the base of the brain constitute the posterior perforated space, the tuber cinereum and the lamina cinerea. It also extends into the corpus albicans, forming the nucleus of that body. At the fore part of each optic thalamus it covers the crus of the fornix, and ascends to the septum lucidum. In the middle of the space it reaches from side to side, and forms the soft commissure (d). The corpus striatum (fig. 63, e) is the large grey body which has Corpus been seen in the floor of the lateral ventricle. The grey matter stnatum' composing it is incompletely divided into two masses—caudate and structure. lenticular nuclei, by a layer of white fibres, named the internal capsule; and it has received its name from the striated appearance of this layer. Dissection. To show the composition of the corpus striatum, the Dissection, upper part of that body and of the optic thalamus should be sliced off on the right side, until a view resembling that in fig. 66 is obtained. The superficial anatomy of the corpus striatum and optic thalamus may be studied on the left side. The caudate or intraventricular nucleus (fig. 65, a) is a long pyriform Caudate mass of reddish-grey substance which projects into the lateral showstn ventricle. Its larger extremity or head (fig. 66, cu) is turned Ventricle forwards, and forms the floor of the anterior cornu of the ventricle. The middle tapering portion is directed backwards and outwards, along the outer side of the optic thalamus, beneath the body of the ventricle, and ends in the tail (fig. 66, cn), which bends downwards and is prolonged in the roof of the descending cornu of the cavity, nearly to its anterior extremity. Numerous veins run over the Veins on surface of the caudate nucleus, and they may be seen to join a surface- larger vessel (vein of the corpus striatum) which lies along the groove between the caudate nucleus and optic thalamus. The lenticular or extraventricular nucleus (fig. 66, In) is entirelv Lenticular . nucleus is surrounded by white matter, and is placed opposite the bottom of 0niy seen in the fissure of Sylvius and the insula (i) of the exterior of the hemi- sections; sphere. It appears lens-shaped in horizontal section, but triangular, with the base turned outwards, when cut transversely. Internally, it is separated from the caudate nucleus and oj^tic thalamus by the surrounded internal capsule ; and externally and below, it is bounded by a capTuie.6 thinner white layer named the external capsule (ec). The internal capsule (fig. 66) is a thick layer of white fibres, which internal is seen in the horizontal section to form a bend—genu (icg), opposite capsue'