INGUINAL HERNIA. 455 the muscle cautiously, the student will be able to separate it from the subjacent transversalis so that it may be turned inwards on the abdomen. The separation of the two muscles just mentioned is often difficult in consequence of their lowest fibres being blended together, but a branch of the circumflex iliac artery serves as a guide to the intermuscular interval. The cremaster muscle is next to be divided along the cord, and Cut the to be reflected to the sides. Let the dissector then clean the surface r' of the transversalis muscle, without displacing its lower arched clean sub- border, and define with care the conjoined tendon of it and the Jacent Parts- internal oblique to show the exact extent outwards. The trans- versalis fascia and the spermatic cord should also be nicely cleaned. Crossing the interval below the border of the transversalis muscle Show the are the epigastric vessels, which lie close to the inner side of the vessels"6 internal abdominal ring, but beneath the transversalis fascia. A small piece of the fascia may be cut out to show the vessels. Inguinal Hernia. A protrusion of intestine or other organ situation of through the lower portion of the abdominal wall near Poupart's he™^1 ligament (answering to the inguinal region) is named an inguinal hernia. The escape of the intestine in this region is favoured by Predis- the deficiencies in the muscular strata, by the passage of the sper- naturally, matic cord through the abdominal parietes, and by the existence of fossae on the inner surface of the wall. The gut in leaving the abdomen either passes through the internal Course it abdominal ring with the cord, or is projected through the part of *ollows- the abdominal wall between the epigastric artery and the edge of the rectus muscle. These two kinds of hernia are distinguished by Two kinds: the names external and internal, from their position to the epigastric artery ; or they are called oblique and direct, from the direction external or they take through the abdominal wall. Thus, the hernia protruding obll(lue > through the internal abdominal ring with the cord is called external from being outside the artery, and oblique from its slanting course ; while the hernia between the edge of the rectus and the epigastric artery is named internal from being inside the artery, and direct direct^ °r from its straight course. External or Oblique Inguinal Hernia leaves the cavity of External the abdomen with the spermatic cord, and traversing the inguinal 01 ° ique' canal, makes its exit from that passage by the external abdominal ring. Anatomy op external hernia. To understand the anatomy of Anatomy this form of hernia, it will be necessary to study the passage which concerned, it occupies in its course through the abdominal wall (inguinal canal), the apertures by which it enters and leaves the wall (abdominal rings), and the coverings it receives in its progress. The inguinal canal (fig. 142) is the interval between the flat Inguinal muscles of the abdominal wall, which contains the spermatic cord a in the male, and the round ligament of the uterus in the female. It extends from the internal to the external abdominal ring, and extent, measures about one inch and a half in length. From its beginning length and at the internal ring, it is directed obliquely downwards and inwards, direction;