28 DISSECTION OF THE FACE. Transverse facial artery. LayJbare the parotid. Parotid lymphatic glands. Parotid gland. Irregular in shape : relations: accessory part. The duct reaches mouth: its length and size. Surface of gland. branch, anterior internal maxillary or deep facial vein, that comes from the plexus in the pterygoid region (p. 89) ; and thence to its termination by veins corresponding with the branches of the artery in the face and neck. The transverse eacial artery (fig. 18) is a branch of the super- ficial temporal, and appears in the face at the anterior border of the parotid gland. It lies by the side of the parotid duct, with branches of the facial nerve, and distributes offsets to the muscles and in- teguments ; some branches anastomose with the facial artery. Dissection. The parotid gland in front of the ear may be next displayed. To see the gland, raise the skin from the surface towards the ear by means of a cut from the base of the jaw to the anterior border of the sterno-mastoid muscle ; this cut may be united with that made for the dissection of the posterior muscle of the ear. A strong fascia covers the gland, and is connected above and behind to the zygomatic arch and the cartilage of the ear, but is continued in front over the face ; this is to be removed, so that the gland may be detached slightly from the parts around. The great auri- cular nerve will be seen ascending to the lobule of the ear; and three or four small lymphatic glands rest on the surface of the parotid. The parotid (fig. 16,10) is the largest of the salivary glands. It occupies the space between the ear and the lower jaw, and is named from its position. Its excretory duct enters the mouth through the middle of the cheek. The shape of the gland is irregular, and is determined by the surrounding parts. Thus inferiorly, where there is not any resisting structure, the parotid projects into the neck, and comes into close proximity with the submaxillary gland, though separated from it by a process of the cervical fascia ; a line from the angle of the jaw to the sterno-mastoid muscle marks usually the extent of the gland in this direction. Above, the parotid is limited by the zygomatic arch and the temporal bone. Along the posterior part the sterno- mastoid muscle extends ; but anteriorly, the gland projects some- what into the face over the masseter muscle, and has connected with it in this situation a small accessory part, known as the socia parotidis. Issuing from the anterior border is the excretory duct—duct of Stenson (ductus Stenonis, fig. 17), which crosses the masseter below the socia parotidis, and perforates the buccinator and the mucous membrane of the cheek obliquely opposite the second molar tooth of the upper jaw. The duct lies between the transverse facial artery and some branches of the facial nerve, the latter being below it. A line drawn from the meatus auditorius to a little below the nostril would mark the level of the duct in the face ; and the central point of the line would be opposite the opening into the mouth. The length of the duct is about two inches and a half; and its capacity is large enough to allow a small probe to pass, but the opening into the mouth is much less. The cutaneous surface of the parotid is smooth, and three or four