432 DISSECTION OF THE PERINEUM. Apertures of anus and vulva. External labia snd com- missures. Clitoris. Internal labia. Prepuce and frsenum of clitoris. Vestibule. Opening of urethra. Aperture of vagina. Hymen and caruncles. Fourchette and fossa navicularis. Boundaries alike in both sexes. Dissection. Take first ischio-rectal fossa. Then ex- amine ante- rior half of perineum. and the surrounding vulva, which occupy the position of the scrotum in the male. Surface-marking.—External organs of generation. In the middle line there are the aperture of the anus and the cleft of the vulva, which are separated from one another by an interval of about an inch. The anus is situate a little farther back than in the male. The cleft or rima of the vulva is bounded at the sides by the labia majora, two prominent folds, thick and rounded in front, but becoming thinner as they pass backwards, which correspond to tin* scrotum of the male. The labia are formed externally by skin, which is provided with scattered hairs, and internally by mucous membrane. They are united in front and behind in the anterior and posterior commissures. Within the rima, at the fore part, is the clitoris, from which two folds of mucous membrane, the labia minora or nymphai, extend backwards, one on each side of the aperture of the vagina. At its anterior end each nympha divides into two smaller folds, the outer of which unites with the one of the opposite side so as to form a kind of hood over the front of the clitoris—the prceputium clitoridis, while the inner one, much shorter and thinner, is attached to the back of the clitoris in contact with its fellow, the two constituting the frcenulum clitoridis. Enclosed by the labia minora, and between the clitoris and the orifice of the vagina, is a median recess about an inch and a half deep, which is called the vestibule. At the hinder part of the vestibule is the orifice of the urethra {meatus urinarius), surrounded by a slight eminence, about one inch behind the clitoris, and near the aperture of the vagina. The orifice of the vagina varies much in size; and in the child and virgin it is often partly closed behind by a thin semilunar fold of the mucous membrane—the hymen. After the destruction of the hymen small, irregularly shaped projections, the carunculrp, myrtiformes, are found in its place. At the back of the rima, within the posterior commissure of the labia, is a narrow transverse fold of the integument called the fourchette or frenulum pudendi; and to the interval between the frenulum and the commissure the name fossa navicularis is given. Beep boundaries. The deep boundaries of the perineum are alike in both sexes ; but in the female the outlet of the pelvis is larger than in the male. Dissection. The steps of the dissection are much the same in both sexes, and the same description will serve, generally, for the male and female perineum. First, the dissection of the ischio-rectal fossa is to be made. Afterwards the muscles, vessels and nerves of the posterior half of the perineal space are to be examined. (See description of the male perineum, pp. 417 to 422). Next, the skin is to be taken from the anterior half of the perineal space, as in the male ; and the transverse incision in front is to be made at the anterior part of the vulva. The attachments of the