INTERNAL ILIAC ARTERY. 557 The branches of the artery are numerous, and arise usually in the branches, following manner :—- From the posterior piece of the trunk three ■arise, viz., the ilio-lumbar, lateral sacral, and gluteal. And from the anterior portion come the upper vesical, lower vesical (vaginal in female), middle hemorrhoidal, obturator, sciatic, and pudic ; and in the female also the uterine artery. Artery in the foetus. In the foetus the hypogastric artery takes Hypogastric the place of the internal iliac, and leaves the abdomen by the fetus, "*the umbilicus. At that time it is larger than the external iliac artery ; and, entering but slightly into the cavity of the pelvis, it is directed on the forwards to the bladder, and along the side of that viscus to the bladder, <ipex. Beyond the bladder the artery ascends along the posterior aspect and beyond; of the abdominal wall with the urachus, converging to its fellow. Finally, at the umbilicus, the vessels of opposite sides come in con- tact with the umbilical vein, and, passing from the abdomen through the aperture at that spot, enter into the placental cord, where they receive the name umbilical. In the foetus, branches similar to those in the adult are furnished branches, by the artery, though their relative size at the two periods is very different. Change to adult state. When uterine life has ceased, the hypo- Transforma- gastric artery shrinks in consequence of the arrest of the current *^ ^°he of blood through it, and finally becomes obliterated, more or less adult, completely, to within an inch or so of its commencement. The part of the trunk which is unobliterated becomes the internal iliac ; and commonly a portion of the vessel remains pervious as far as the bladder, forming the superior vesical artery. Peculiarities. The length of the interna] iliac artery varies from half an Trunk often inch to three inches, its extreme measurements ; but in two-thirds of a large varies in number of bodies it ranged from an inch to an inch and a half (R. Quain). length, Size. In the rare cases where the femoral trunk is derived from the internal rarely in iliac, and is placed at the back of the thigh, this vessel is larger than the size, external iliac. a. The three branches arising from the posterior piece of the Branches of internal iliac may be first examined. partP0Steri°r The ilio-lumbar artery (fig. 172, h) passes outwards beneath the iliolumbar psoas muscle and the obturator nerve, but in front of the lumbo- nas an sacral cord, and divides into an ascending and a transverse branch :— The ascending or lumbar branch, which is beneath the psoas, ascendin," supplies that muscle and the quaclratus lumborum, and anastomoses and with the last lumbar artery : it sends a small spinal branch through the foramen between the sacrum and the last lumbar vertebra. The transverse or iliac branch divides into offsets that ramify in a transverse the iliacus muscle, some running over and some beneath it. At branch- the iliac crest these branches anastomose with the lumbar and cir- cumflex iliac arteries ; some deep twigs communicate with the obturator artery, and enter the hip-bone. The ilio-lumbar vein opens into the common iliac trunk.