270 DISSECTION OF THE ARM. Section III. THE FRONT OF THE AEM. Position, and inci- sions in the skin. Seek super- ficial veins. Position. For the dissection of the superficial vessels and nerves on the front of the arm the limb should lie flat on the table, with the anterior surface uppermost. Dissection. The skin is to be raised from the fore and hinder sur- faces of the arm and elbow. To reflect it, make one incision along the centre of the limb as far as two inches below the bend of the elbow, and at the termination of this, a second cut half round the forearm. Strip now the skin from the limb as low as the transverse incision, so that the fat which contains the cutaneous vessels and nerves may be denuded. Between the skin and the prominence of the olecranon a bursa may be seen. The cutaneous veins (fig. 80) may be sought first in the fat: they are very numerous below the bend of the elbow, as they issue from beneath the integument. One in the centre of the forearm is Trace'cuta- neous' nerves of outer side, and inner side of the limb. Superficial fat. Superficial veins. to this is a small vein (radial) ; and internal to it are the anterior and posterior ulnar veins, coming from the front and back of the forearm. At the elbow these veins are united into two; one (basilic) is to be followed along the inner side, and the other (cephalic) along the outer side of the arm. The cutaneous nerves may be next traced out. Where they per- forate the deep fascia they lie beneath the fat; and this layer must be scraped through to find them. On the outer side of the arm, about the middle, two external cutaneous branches of the musculo-spiral are to be sought. In the outer bicipital groove, in front of the elbow or rather below it, the cutaneous part of the musculo-cutaneous nerve will be recognised. On the inner part of the limb the nerves to the surface are more numerous. Taking the basilic vein as a guide, the internal cuta- neous nerve of the forearm will be found by its side, about the middle of the arm; and a little external to this nerve is a small cutaneous offset from it, which pierces the fascia higher up. Scrape through the fat behind the internal cutaneous, in the lower third of the arm, for the small nerve of Wrisberg; and in the upper third, follow the small nerves which have been already met with in the dissection of the axilla, viz., the intercosto-humeral, and the internal cutaneous of the musculo-spiral. Superficial fascia. The subcutaneous fatty layer forms a con- tinuous investment for the limb, but it is thicker in front of the elbow than in the other parts of the arm. At that spot it encloses the superficial vessels and lymphatics. Cutaneous Veins. The position and relations of the veins in