DISSECTION OF THE TONGUE. 150 of pha- ryngeo- glossus, of chondro- glossus. Palato- glossus in tongue. Stylo- glossus pro- longed to tip of tongue; Hyo- glossus united with palato- and stylo- glossus. Chondro- glossus. Muscular cortex of tongue. between the styloglossus muscles of opposite sides is to be traced. The piece of the constrictor muscle (g) which, is attached to the tongue, and the ending of the genio-glossus will come into view on the division of the hyo-glossus. To lay bare the chondro-glossus (f), which is a small muscular slip attached to the lesser cornu of the hyoid bone, turn upwards the dorsum of the tongue, and feel for the small cornu of the hyoid through the mucous membrane. Then remove the mucous membrane in front of this, and the fibres of the muscle radiating forwards will be visible. The palato-glossus reaches the side of the tongue at the junction of the posterior and middle thirds. Its fibres are directed inwards, in part on the surface, and in part deeply with the transverse muscle to tbe septum. The stylo-glossus joins the body of the tongue below the foregoing, and is continued forwards as a gradually tapering bundle beneath the lateral margin to the tip of the organ, where it becomes united with the inferior lingualis, and meets the muscle of the opposite side. From its upper border fibres are directed inwards over the dorsum of the tongue to the middle line ; and other bundles pass inwards from its lower edge between the fasciculi of the hyo-glossus. The hyo-glossus enters the under surface of the tongue in its middle third, between the stylo-glossus and the inferior lingualis. Its fibres are collected into bundles which turn round the margin and form, with those of the preceding muscles, a layer on the dor- sum of the tongue, the hinder fibres passing almost transversely inwards, the anterior inclining forwards to the tip. The chondro-glossus is a small fan-shaped muscle, which arises from the lesser cornu and the adjacent part of the body of the hyoid bone. Its fibres are directed forwards, spreading out beneath the mucous membrane of the posterior third of the tongue, and are inserted into the submucous layer. Cortex of the tongue. The muscles above described, together with the superficial lingualis, constitute a cortical layer of oblique and longitudinal fibres, which covers the tongue, except below where the genio-glossus and inferior lingualis muscles are placed, and * Muscles on the dorsum of the tongue. A. Superficial lingualis. B. Stylo- glossus, c. Hyo-glossus. d. Palato-glossus. f. Chondro-glossus. G. Pha- ryngeo-glossus. h. Septum linguae. (After Zaglas.)