212 DISSECTION OF THE BRAIN. Dentate gyrus. Form and structure of convolu- tions : grey cortical, and white medullary Cortex com- posed of six layers of white and grey sub- stance alter nately. Outline of cerebrum. Medullary centre ; cortical and central grey masses Cut down to smaller oval centre of the hemisphere. Reflect callosal con- volution. Repeat dis- section on right side. The larger oval centre is deeper. Corpus callosum. hemisphere ends in a projecting notched margin, which is named fascia dentata or dentate convolution (fd). This will be better seen subsequently (p. 217). Structure of the convolutions. Each convolution is continuous with the general mass of the hemisphere on the one side (base), and is free on the other, where it presents a summit and lateral surfaces, which are covered by pia mater. A cross section will show its constitution of a layer of cortical grey substance on the surface, which is continued at the bottom of the sulci from one eminence to another, and a white medullary part in the centre, which appears as a process of the large medullary mass forming the greater part of the substance of the hemisphere. On examining closely the section of a convolution in a fresh specimen, the cortex may generally be seen to consist of three grey, and as many thinner white, layers arranged alternately, the outermost being a thin white stratum, which is most marked over the fore part of the uncinate convolution. Interior of the Cerebrum. Each cerebral hemisphere consists of white and grey substance, the white forming the larger portion of the mass (medullary centre of the hemisphere), while the grey matter is chiefly disposed in a superficial layer (cortex) which covers the medullary centre, except over the region on the inner side whence the corpus callosum issues ; but at the lower part of the hemisphere there are other collections of grey matter more or less surrounded by the medullary substance. In each hemisphere is an elongated cavity, named the lateral ventricle, which communicates with another median space—the third ventricle, placed close to the base of the brain. The student will now proceed to examine the parts in the interior of the hemisphere, carrying the dissection from above downwards. Dissection. Supposing both hemispheres entire, the left is to be cut off to the level of the calloso-marginal sulcus. When this has been done, the surface displays a white central mass of a semi-oval shape (centrum ovale minus), sending processes into the convolu- tions, and surrounded by an irregular grey margin. In a fresh brain this surface would be studded with drops of blood escaping from the divided vessels. Next, the callosal convolution is to be divided about the middle, and the two pieces are to be thrown backwards and forwards. On its under surface will be seen a thin band of white fibres, the covered band of Reil or fillet of the corpus callosum, which bends down before and behind the corpus callosum. A similar dissection is to be carried out on the opposite side; and the hemisphere being removed to the level of the corpus callosum, the transverse fibres of that body are to be defined as they radiate to the convolutions. Now a much larger white surface comes into view (centrum ovale majus), and the white masses in the two hemispheres are seen to be continuous, across the middle line, through the corpus callosum. The corpus callosum reaches from one half of the cerebrum to the other, and forms the roof of the lateral ventricle in each hemisphere.