ANATOMY OF THE LUNGS. pale red ; but in the adult the texture becomes greyish, and presents varies with here and there dark grey spots or lines of pigment, the shade of Accidental which deepens with increasing age, and becomes even black in old colour, people. After death, the colour of the posterior border may be bluish-black from the accumulation of blood. To the touch the lung is soft and yielding, and on a section the Consistence, pulmonary substance appears like a sponge ; but the lung which is deprived of air by pressure has a tough leathery feel. Slight pressure with the thumb and finger drives the air from the con- Crepitation, taining spaces through the pulmonary structure, and produces the noise known as crepitation. If the lung contains serum or mucus, a frothy red fluid will run out when it is cut. The texture of the lung is very elastic, this elasticity causing the and elasti- organ to contract when the thorax is opened, and to expel air that 1 " may be blown into it. The specific gravity of the lung varies with the conditions of ^Pae°^c dilatation and collapse, or of infiltration with fluid. When the ° pulmonary substance is free from fluid, and filled with air, it floats in water ; but when it is quite deprived of air it is slightly heavier than water, and therefore sinks. The weight of the lung is and weight . n -. • n n -i . *? . of the lung, influenced greatly by the quantity of foreign material contained m its texture ; ordinarily it ranges from sixteen to twenty-four ounces, the right lung being about two ounces heavier than the left. In the male the lungs are larger, and together about twelve ounces heavier than in the female. Obvious structure of the lung. The substance of the lung is Lung con- composed of small polyhedral masses or lobules, which are hollow, Ernies, and and again subdivided into minute vesicles called the air-cells. The these of air- . . cells. lobules are visible as little polygonal areas upon the surface of the lung; and by inflating a portion of the organ, the cellular structure may be seen. The several lobules are united together by connective tissue without fat; and each is attached to a terminal branch of the airtube, and receives offsets of the pulmonary vessels. The lung is invested by the pulmonic pleura, except at the hilum, Serous where the vessels enter. The serous membrane is thin and trans- ° parent, and is closely attached to the lung-substance by means of a fine layer of subserous areolar tissue, which is continuous with the interlobular tissue. Both the pleura and the subserous tissue are ami sub- very elastic, so that in the collapsed state the surface of the lung is seiouslavei- still smooth. Arrangement of the airtube and pulmonary artery entering the lung. Relation of It has already been seen that in the root of the lung the pulmonary bronoims, artery lies at first in front of the bronchus ; but before entering the organ the artery crosses over, and gains the posterior surface of the airtube. On the left side the artery passes backwards above the 011 left side' undivided bronchus; but on the right side the bronchus gives off and on right, the branch to the upper lobe of the lung before it is crossed by the arterial trunk, which therefore runs between the upper and middle divisions of the airtube. From this arrangement it would appear that the lower half of the left bronchus and the two lobes of the