26 DISSECTION OF THE FACE. Use. Zygomatic muscles; large and small. Use. Risorius muscle. Use. Buccinator muscle. Origin. Insertion at corner of the mouth. Parts in con- tact with it. Use on aperture, on cheek, in expelling air. Action. The angle of the mouth is drawn downwards and back- wards by it, as is exemplified in a sorrowful countenance. The zygomatic muscles (fig. 6, 7 and 8) are directed obliquely from the malar Done towards the angle of the mouth and the upper lip. One is longer and larger than the other; they are therefore named major and minor. The zygomaticus major (8) arises from the outer part of the malar bone, and is inserted into the angle of the mouth. The zygomaticus minor (7) is attached to the malar bone in front of the other, and blends with the fibres of the special elevator of the upper lip. Action. The large muscle draws upwards and backwards the corner of the mouth, as in laughing ; and the small one assists the levator labii superioris in raising the upper lip. The risorius muscle (Santorini) (fig. 6, 9) is a thin and narrow bundle of fibres, sometimes divided into two or more parts, which arises externally from the fascia over the masseter muscle, and is connected internally with the apex of the depressor anguli oris. Action. The use of this muscle is indicated by its name, as it retracts the corner of the mouth in smiling. The buccinator (fig. 6, 14) is the flat and thin muscle of the cheek, and occupies the interval between the jaws. The muscle arises from the outer surface of the alveolar borders of the upper and lower maxillae, as far forwards in each as the first molar tooth ; and in the interval between the jaws behind it is attached to a tendinous band known as the pterygo-maxillary ligament. From this origin the fibres are directed forwards to the angle of the mouth, where they mix with the other muscles and with both parts of the orbicu- laris ; and as some of the central fibres descend to the lower lip while others ascend to the upper lip, a decussation takes place at the corner of the mouth. On the cutaneous surface of the buccinator are the different muscles converging to the angle of the mouth ; and crossing the upper part is the duct of the parotid gland, which perforates the muscle opposite the second upper molar tooth. Internally the muscle is lined by the mucous membrane of the mouth, and ex- ternally it is covered by a fascia (bucco-pharyngeal) that is con- tinued to the pharynx. By its intermaxillary origin the buccinator corresponds with the attachment of the superior constrictor of the pharynx. Action. By one muscle the corner of the mouth is retracted, and by the action of both the aperture of the mouth is widened trans- versely. In mastication the cheek is pressed by the muscular contraction against the dental arches, while the corner of the mouth is fixed by the orbicularis. In the expulsion of air from the mouth, as in whistling, the muscle is contracted so as to prevent bulging of the cheek ; but in the use of a blow-pipe it is distended over the volume of air contained in the mouth, and drives out a continuous stream by its contraction.