ACTION OF THE DIAPHRAGM. 525 The opening for the vena cava (foramen quadratum ; h) is situ- For the ate between the middle and right divisions of the central tendon ; vena cava- and its margins are attached to the vein by tendinous fibres. There is a fissure (j) in each pillar for the three splanchnic Fissures in nerves ; and through that in the left cms the small azygos vein the pillais- also passes. Action of the diaphragm. By the contraction of the muscular fibres Use in the tendon is moved downwards, and the arch of the diaphragm is iespiratl,m lessened in inspiration; and during their relaxation, the centre of the muscle is elevated, and the height of the vault increased in ex- piration, owing to the elasticity of the lungs, and the pressure of the viscera below, which are forced upwards by the action of the abdominal muscles (p. 442). In the descent of the diaphragm, the parts of the tendon move Central part unequally, in consequence of differences in their relations, and in ™°Jfce.s the length of the fleshy fibres connected with them. Thus, the central lobe, above which the heart is placed, moves least; while the lateral lobes, which are below the lungs, descend more freely, left part the right, however, less than the left, owing to the presence of the ™^age liver. It is estimated that the central lobe of the tendon moves descent in downwards in full inspiration about two-fifths of an inch, the right tion.mSpna lobe twice as much, and the left lobe one inch (Hasse). In forced Height in . • . ' forced expiration the muscle reaches as high as the fourth rib on the right expiration, side, and the fifth on the left, close to the sternum. With the movement of the diaphragm the size of the cavities of Effect on the abdomen and thorax will be altered. By its descent the thorax abdcfmenl1 is enlarged, and the abdomen diminished ; and the viscera in the on viscera, upper part of the latter cavity, viz., liver, stomach, and spleen, are partly moved from beneath the ribs. By its ascent the cavity of the thorax is lessened, and that of the abdomen is restored lo its former size; and the displaced viscera return to their usual place. By the contraction of the fibres the aperture for the oesophagus will and on be rendered smaller, and that tube may be compressed ; but the aPertures- other openings for the vena cava and aorta are not materially changed. The action of the diaphragm is commonly involuntary, but it is Action in- perfectly under the control of the will. voluntary. Dissection. After the diaphragm has been learnt, the ribs that Take away support it on each side may be cut through, and the loose pieces of oTthT Part bone with the fore part of the diaphragm may be taken away, to diaphragm, facilitate the dissection of the deeper vessels and muscles. But the posterior third of the diaphragm, with its pillars and arches, should be left ; and the vessels ramifying on it should be followed back to their origin. The large vessels of the abdomen, viz., the aorta and the vena Clean aorta cava, are to be cleaned by removing the fat, the remains of the branches ; sympathetic plexuses, and the lymphatic glands ; and their branches are to be followed to the diaphragm, to the kidney and suprarenal body, and to the testicle. In like manner the large iliac branches also iliac of the aorta and cava are to be laid bare as far as Poupart's ligament. vessels-