CARTILAGE OF EAR. 35 tragus and antitragus retarding the passage of sonorous undulations to the meatus. Dissection. The remaining skin should now he removed from Clean the the pinna, and the muscles cleaned off to expose the cartilage : in cartllaSe- doing this the lobule of the ear, which consists only of skin and fat, will disappear as in fig. 8. The cartilage of the pinna (fig. 8) resembles much the external ^^ag®rt ear in form, and presents nearly the same parts. The rim of the 0?externai helix subsides posteriorly about the middle of the pinna; while ear- anteriorly a small process projects from it, and there is a fissure near the projection. The part of the cartilage forming the fossa of the helix ends on a level with the lowest part of the concha in a P^^y pointed process which is separated from the antitragus by a deep notch. The antihelix is continued below into the antitragus. On the posterior aspect of the concha is a strong vertical ridge of cartilage. Inferiorly the cartilage is fixed to the margin of the external and at upper auditory aperture in the temporal bone, and forms a portion of the meatus, meatus auditorius ; but it does not give rise to a complete tube, for at the upper and hinder part that canal is closed by fibrous tissue. In the piece of cartilage forming the outer end of the meatus Its fissures, are two fissures (of Santorini) : one is directed vertically beneath the base of the tragus : the other passes from before backwards in the floor of the meatus. Some ligaments connect the pinna with the head, and others pass Ligaments; from one point to another of the cartilage. The external ligaments are two bands of fibrous tissue, anterior extrinsic; and posterior. The anterior fixes the fore part of the helix to the root of the zygoma. The posterior passes from the back of the concha to the mastoid process. The chief special ligament crosses intrinsic, the interval between the tragus and the helix, and completes the opening of the auditory meatus. Vessels and nerves of the auricle. The arteries of the auricle are derived from the superficial temporal (ant. auricular branches) and the posterior auricular branches of the external carotid. The veins have a corresponding termination. The skin of the pinna is supplied on the outer surface mainly by the auriculo-temporal branch of the inferior maxillary nerve, on the inner surface in the upper part by the small occipital, and in the lower part, together with the outer aspect of the lobule, by the great auricular nerve. The auricular branch of the vagus also reaches the back of the concha. The muscles are supplied by the posterior auricular branch of the facial nerve. The facial nerve (fig. 9), or the seventh cranial nerve, is the Outline of motor nerve of the superficial muscles of the head and face. acia neiv~" Numerous communications take place between it and the fifth nerve; the chief of these are found above and below the orbit, and over the side of the lower jaw. Dissection. The facial nerve is to be displayed on the right side Dissection of the face if there is sufficient time before the body is turned; 0 nenc otherwise it is to be omitted for the present (see p. 1). The trunk D 2