FIBRES OF CEREBRUM. 227 which also numerous fibres are given off to the capsule ; but one tract of tegmental fibres, prolonged from the fillet, passes beneath the thalamus into the hinder part of the internal capsule, some of the outer ones inclining to the side and traversing the inner part of the lenticular nucleus as they course upwards. Dissection. A complete systematic view of the ascending fibres Dissection cannot now be obtained on the imperfect brain. At this stage the of them chief purpose is to show the passage of the radiating fibres from the crus through the large cerebral ganglia. To trace the ascending fibres through the corpus striatum, the inthecorpu caudate nucleus of this body should be scraped away (fig. 67) ; S m Um' and the dissection should be made on the left side, on which the striate body and the optic thalamus remain uncut. In this pro- ceeding the internal capsule comes into view, consisting of white fibres with intervening gray matter of the corpus striatum, giving the appearence of the teeth of a comb (pecten of Eeil). On taking away completely the hinder part of the caudate nucleus, others of the same set of fibres will be seen issuing from the outer side of the optic thalamus, and radiating to the posterior and inferior portions of the hemisphere. Arrangement of the ascending fibres. The fibres of the internal Ascending capsule diverge as they pass through the grey matter of the corpus ouTinSpiead striatum, and at the outer margin of that body they enter the hemisphere, medullary centre of the hemisphere, where they decussate with the transverse fibres of the corpus callosum, and radiate to all parts of the hemisphere. The ascending fibres thus form in the hemisphere a part of a hollow cone, named the corona radiata, the apex of forming which is towards the crus cerebri, and the concavity turned down- radiata wards. The base of the cone is at the surface of the hemisphere, where the fibres pass into the grey cortex of the convolutions. From the foregoing description it will be evident that the fibres constituting the corona radiata are of two kinds, viz., those extend- ing without interruption from the cortex to the isthmus cerebri, and those uniting the cortex with the corpus striatum and optic thalamus. The transverse or commissural fibres connect the hemispheres of the Transverse . . fibres, cerebrum across the median plane. They give rise to the great commissure or the corpus callosum (p. 212), and to the anterior commissure (p. 223). These bodies have already been examined. Longitudinal or collateral fibres. These are connecting fibres Longitud- which pass from before backwards, uniting together parts of the ma re&" same hemisphere. The chief bands of this system are the follow- ing :—The fornix, the taenia semicircularis, the pineal stria, the longitudinal stria of the corpus callosum, and the covered band of Reil. Other fibres pass in the medullary centre between adjoining, and more distant convolutions, describing arches beneath the sulci : these are known as the association-fibres. The dissector may now make a transverse section of the remains Make of the left hemisphere at the fore part of the optic thalamus, when lenticular^ the form and relations of the lenticular nucleus and the claustrum, nucleus, Q 2