209 OUTER CEREBRAL CONVOLUTIONS. of the Sylvian fissure, and ends by joining the superior temporo- sphenoidal convolution. The angular convolution (Ang) arises from the hinder part of the and angular foregoing, arches over the upper end of the parallel sulcus (st), and tions. descends behind that furrow to be continued into the middle tempore- sphenoidal convolution : it is joined behind to the middle occipital convolution by the second annectant gyrus (behind Ang). SULCI AND CONVOLUTIONS OF THE OCCIPITAL LOBE. The Occipital occipital lobe is divided into three convolutions, which run forwards eonvoiu- from the posterior extremity of the hemisphere, by two small g^pesri^rre furrows—the superior and middle occipital sulci. The superior middle, and occipital convolution (so) is united anteriorly to the superior parietalinfeiior- lobule by the first annectant gyrus ; the middle (mo) to the angular convolution by the second, and to the middle temporo-sphenoidal conTohi-11* convolution by the third annectant gyri ; and the inferior (10) to tions. the lower temporo-sphenoidal convolution by the fourth annectant gyrus. An inconstant inferior occipital sulcus, at the lower margin of the hemisphere, separates the third occipital convolution from the external occipito-temporal of the under surface. The occipital convolu- tions are very variable, and the sulci are frequently ill marked. SULCI AND CONVOLUTIONS OP THE TEMPORO-SPHENOIDAL LOBE. Temporo- Three longitudinal sulci limit as many convolutions in this lobe. sum :° ° The superior temporo-sphenoidal or parallel sulcus (st) is well upper marked, and runs below and parallel to the posterior branch of the 01 paialle1' fissure of Sylvius, from near the anterior extremity of the lobe, backwards and upwards, into the inferior parietal lobule. The middle temporo-sphenoidal sulcus (mt) takes a similar course at a middle, and lower level, but it is not so constant as the superior ; and the inferior (fig. 62, it), which is also very variable, is placed on the inferior, under surface of the hemisphere near the margin, separating the lower temporo-sphenoidal from the external occipito-temporal convolution. The superior temporo-sphenoidal convolution (inframarginal; st) £io"s ^re forms the lower boundary of the posterior branch of the Sylvian also three, fissure, and is continuous behind with the supramarginal convolu- tion. The middle and inferior temporo-sphenoidal convolutions (mt and it) are commonly united in some part of their extent. The posterior end of the middle one is joined by the angular and third annectant gyri. The inferior forms the lower margin of the lobe, and receives the fourth annectant gyrus. Convolutions op the central lobe (fig. 61, c). The Convoiu- triangular surface of the insula is divided by shallow sulci, con- ya"nsd°Jf verging from the base towards the apex, into five or six small gyri, Reil. which are for the most part concealed by the operculum. Sulci and Convolutions of the Inner Surface of the sulci and Hemisphere (fig. 62). The convolutions of the inner aspect of the hemisphere, with which are included those of the lower surface inner and behind the fissure of Sylvius, are generally well defined ; but some surfaces1 being so long as to reach beyond the extent of a single lobe of the outer surface, they are not usually described as forming lobes like the foregoing.