*9 INFERIOR MAXILLARY NERVE. fossa, only one, the posterior dental, will be now described. The only one remainder will be examined with the superior maxillary nerve and now seeu Meckel's ganglion ; they are infraorbital (p. 101), superior palatine, naso-palatine, vidian, and pterygopalatine (Section XIV). .g ^ The posterior dental branch arises as the artery enters the spheno- posterior maxillary fossa, and descends with a tortuous course on thedental- zygomatic surface of the upper jaw, along with a small branch of the superior maxillary nerve. Its branches mostly enter the canals ■ of the bone and supply the upper molar and bicuspid teeth, as well as the lining membrane of the antrum; but some external offsets are furnished to the gum. The INTERNAL MAXILLARY VEIN is a short trunk, often double, which Internal leaves the hinder part of the pterygoid plexus, and runs backwards ^arises beneath the jaw with the first part of the internal maxillary artery, from to join the temporal vein in the parotid gland. The pterygoid plexus is an extensive network of veins surrounding pterygoid the internal maxillary artery and the pterygoid muscles. Into it plexus ■ the veins corresponding to the branches of the artery empty them- selves, and it communicates with the cavernous sinus in the interior tributaries of the skull through the foramen ovale and foramen lacerum. From the plexus the large internal maxillary vein leads backwards, and another considerable branch, the anterior internal maxillary or an(j outlet deep facial vein, descends to the face to join the facial vein. A prolongation of the plexus into the spheno-maxillary fossa is often distinguished as the alveolar plexus. The inferior maxillary nerve (fig. 22) is the largest of the inferior three trunks arising from the Gasserian ganglion (p. 18). It leaves n^.ellary the skull by the foramen ovale in the sphenoid bone, and divides immediately below that opening into two principal pieces, viz., an anterior smaller part, which is distributed mainly to muscles, and a larger posterior part, ending in branches which are, with one exception, altogether sensory. In addition to these, the nerve of the internal pterygoid muscle arises from the inner side of the primary trunk. Directions. Should the internal maxillary artery obstruct the view of the nerve, it may be cut through. The smaller part receives nearly all the fibres of the motor Anterior root of the nerve, and furnishes branches to three of the muscles of part the jaw, viz., temporal, masseter, and external pterygoid, and the buccal branch to the cheek. The deep temporal branches (3) are three in number, and enter the supplies deep surface of the temporal muscle ; the middle, which is the blanches, largest and supplies the greater part of the muscle, leaves the middle anterior division of the trunk and ascends close to the bone, above the upper border of the external pterygoid ; the posterior is usually posterior, conjoined with the masseteric nerve, and enters the hinder part of the muscle ; and the anterior is given off from the buccal nerve in and front of the external pterygoid. anterior. The masseteric branch (2) takes an outward course above the Masseteric external pterygoid muscle, and through the sigmoid notch, to the