DISSECTION OF THE THIGH. 618 The femoral Splitting of the artery. Occasionally the femoral artery is split into two artery may below the origin of the profunda ; but in all the cases that have been met be divided. ^he branches have united again above the opening in the adductor muscle. Branches:— Anasto- motic : superficial, and deep part. Muscular tranches. Femoral vein. To expose nmscles on front of the femur. Tensor vagina femoris arises from pelvis, ends in fascia lata. Parts around. Use on limb ; on pelvis; on knee. Branches. One named branch—anastomotic, and muscular offsets, spring from this part of the artery. The anastomotic branch (fig. 193, k) arises close to the opening in the adductor muscle, and divides at once into two pieces, superficial and deep :— The superficial offset (n) continues with the saphenous nerve to the lower border of the sartorius, and piercing the fascia lata, ramifies in the integuments. The deep branch (I) is concealed in the fibres of the vastus internus, and descends in front of the tendon of the adductor magnus to the inner side of the knee-joint, where it anastomoses with the articular branches of the popliteal artery. A branch passes outwards from it in the substance of the vastus, and forms an arch at the upper border of the patella with an offset of the superior external articular artery. Muscular branches. Branches for the supply of the muscles come mostly from the outer side of the femoral artery; they enter the sartorius, the vastus internus, and the adductor longus. The femoral vein corresponds closely with the femoral artery in its relations and in its branches. Dissection. The femoral artery and vein are to be cut across below the origin of the profunda, and are to be thrown downwards pre- paratory to the deeper dissection. Afterwards all the fat, and all the veins, are to be carefully removed from amongst the branches of the profunda artery and anterior crural nerve. Unless this dis- section is fully carried out, the upper part of the vastus internus and crureus will not be prepared for learning. The tensor vaginae femoris s. fascia lat^e (fig. 193, l) occu- pies the upper third of the thigh, and is the smallest and most external of the outer set of muscles. It takes origin from the front of the crest of the ilium at the outer aspect, from the anterior superior spine, and from the edge of the notch between this and the inferior spine as far as the attachment of the sartorius. Its fibres form a fleshy belly about two inches wide, and are inserted into the ilio-tibial band of the fascia lata about three inches below, and rather in front of the line of, the great trochanter of the femur. At its origin the muscle is situate between the sartorius and the gluteus medius. Beneath it are the ascending offsets of the external circumflex artery; and a branch of the superior gluteal nerve enters its under surface. A strong sheath of fascia surrounds the muscle. Action. Supposing the limb moveable the muscle abducts the thigh, and may help in rotating inwards the femur. When the limb is fixed it will support the pelvis, and assist in balancing the latter on the femur in walking. The chief function of the tensor vaginae femoris is, however, to