677 THIRD LAYER OF MUSCLES. flexor going to the second and third toes, it will bend those digits and other with the great toe. Dissection (fig. 208). For the dissection of the third layer of J^?^* er muscles, the accessorius and the tendons of the long flexors are of'muscies. to be cut through near the calcaneum, and turned towards the toes. While raising the tendons, the external plantar nerve and artery are not to be interfered with ; and small nerves and vessels to the outer three lumbricales are to be looked for. Afterwards the areolar tissue is to be taken from the muscles now brought into view. Third Layer of Muscles (fig. 208). Only the short muscles of Muscles of the great and little toes enter into this layer. On the metatarsal thlrd layer' bone of the great toe the flexor brevis hallucis lies, and external to this is the adductor hallucis ; on the metatarsal bone of the little toe is placed the flexor brevis minimi digiti. Crossing the heads of the metatarsal bones is the transversus pedis muscle. The fleshy mass between the adductor hallucis and the short flexor of the little toe consists of the interosseous muscles of the next layer. The plexor brevis hallucis (flex. brev. pollicis pedis ; fig. 208, Flexor a) arises behind by two tendinous slips, one of which is fixed to the hallucis • inner side of the cuboid bone, while the other is prolonged from the origin. tendon of the tibialis posticus. Near the front of the first meta- tarsal bone the fleshy belly divides into two heads, which are inserted insertion; into the sides of the base of the metatarsal phalanx. Kesting on the muscle at one part, and in the interval between relations; the heads at another, is the tendon of the flexor longus hallucis. The inner head joins the abductor, and the outer is united with the adductor hallucis. A sesamoid bone is developed in the tendon connected with each head. Action. By its attachment to the first phalanx it flexes the meta- use. tarso-phalangeal joint of the big toe. The adductor hallucis (add. pollicis pedis; fig. 208, b), which ^*^°.r is larger than the preceding; muscle and external to it, arises from . . origin i the sheath of the tendon of the peroneus longus, and from the bases of the third and fourth metatarsal bones. Anteriorly the muscle is united with the outer head of the short flexor, and is inserted with it insertion; into the base of the metatarsal phalanx of the great toe. To the inner side is the flexor brevis ; and beneath the outer relations; border the external plantar vessels and nerves are directed inwards. Action. Its first action will be to adduct the great toe to the use. others, and it will help afterwards in bending the metatarso- phalangeal joint of the toe. The transversus pedis (fig. 208, d) is placed transversely over Transversus the heads of the metatarsal bones. Its origin is by fleshy bundles pedls: from the capsule of the metatarsophalangeal articulations of the origm: three outer toes (frequently not from the little toe), and from the transverse metatarsal ligament. Its insertion into the great toe is insertion; united with that of the adductor hallucis. The cutaneous surface is covered by the tendons and the nerves of relations;