QUADRICEPS EXTENSOR OF KNEE. 619 act with the gluteus maximus in tightening the ilio-tibial band so as to support the extended knee (p. 634). Dissection. After the tensor has been learnt, the slip of fascia P1ut,thr'?ulh , , . . the band of extending from it to the knee may be cut through ; and when it is fascia, detached from the muscles around, the rectus may be followed up- wards to its origin from the pelvis. The QUADRICEPS EXTENSOR CRURIS (fig. 191) Consists of four Gre at ex ten- parts or heads, one long or superficial (rectus), which springs from the pelvis, and three short or deep (vastus internus, crureus, and vastus externus) which arise from the femur : all are united below in a common tendon. The rectus femoris (fig. 192, 13) gives rise to a fleshy promi- has nence on the front of the thigh. It arises from the pelvis by two origin at tendinous heads : one, the anterior, is attached to the anterior in- pelvIS' ferior iliac spine; and the other, posterior, is fixed to a rough mark on the outer surface of the ilium close above the acetabulum : near their origin they join to form a single tendon. The fleshy fibres j^o^om- terminate below in another tendon, which joins the aponeuroses of mon tendon, the other muscles in the common tendon. The rectus is larger in the middle than at the ends ; and its fibres The nuisele • • • . is p6nni- are directed from the centre to the sides, giving rise to the condi- form, and tion called penniform. Its upper end is covered by the tensor exceptCia1' vaginae femoris, iliacus, and sartorius ; but in the rest of its extent above, it is superficial. It conceals branches of the external circumflex artery and anterior crural nerve, and rests on the crureus and vasti. The upper tendon of the rectus reaches farthest on the anterior sur- face ; while the lower tendon is most extensive on the posterior aspect of the muscle. Dissection. To see the remaining muscles, cut across the rectus Cut the near the lower end, and raise it without injuring the branches of ^ddispla vessels and nerves beneath. The muscular mass covering the shaft three deep of the femur is to be thoroughly cleaned, and its three parts defined ^tensor • in the following way :— The division between the vastus externus on the outer side and ^fin* the crureus in front is readily made along the situation of some de- externus; scending vessels and nerves. Then, on turning to the outer side of the thigh, about half-way down, the tendinous edge of the vastus externus will be perceived, with oblique fibres of the crureus appearing behind it: sink the handle of the scalpel between these until it meets the line of division in front. To separate the vastus internus from the crureus, the lower end separate of the rectus must be detached from the others and turned down as vastus* &ml far as possible, when a cleft will be evident in the subjacent tendon internus, above the inner part of the patella. From this interval the division kgfg™ling may be easily carried upwards between the tendons of the two muscles, but at the upper end some fleshy fibres generally need cutting to complete the separation. If the vastus internus is turned and expos- inwards off the crureus, a large part of the inner surface of the surface of femur will be seen to be free from muscular attachment. bone- The vastus externus has a narrow attachment to the femur Vastus externus