DISSECTION OF THE NECK. 56 Variations in the size of the space, also in the depth, both natural and arti- ficial. Departure from the ordinary state of the artery, and its branches. Position of veins. Occipital part of space •contains nerves and lymphatics: also spinal accessory nerve. Serves of the cervical plexus that ascend, viz.— Small occipital. The length of the clavicular part of the space depends mainly upon the extent of the attachment of the trajDezius and sterno- mastoid muscles to the clavicle : in some bodies these muscles occupy nearly the whole length of that bone, leaving but a small interval between them ; and occasionally they meet, so as to cover the subclavian artery altogether. The space also varies in height according to the position of the omo-hyoid, for this muscle some- times lies close to, or even arises from the clavicle, while on the other hand, it may be distant one inch and a half from that bone. In depth the space varies naturally ; and in a short thick neck with a prominent clavicle, the artery is farther from the surface than in the opposite condition of the parts. But the depth may be altered much more by change in the position of the clavicle, as the shoulder is carried forwards or backwards. And lastly, the artery may be concealed entirely in its usual position by forcing upwards the arm and shoulder, as the collar bone can be raised above the level of the omo-hyoid muscle. The position of the subclavian artery itself is also subject to variation, for the vessel may be one inch and a half above the clavicle, or at any point intermediate between this and the bone. In the typical condition there is not any branch arising from the trunk in this part of its course; but the posterior scapular artery (fig. 14) is frequently given off beyond the scalenus, and sometimes there is more than one branch. The subclavian vein occasionally rises upwards as high as the artery ; or in some rare instances, it even lies with the artery beneath the anterior scalenus. The position of the external jugular vein with regard to the subclavian artery is very uncertain; and the branches connected with its lower end often form a kind of plexus over the arterial trunk. The occipital part of the posterior triangle is larger than the other. Its boundaries in front and behind are the sterno-mastoid and the trapezius; and it is separated from the clavicular portion by the omo-hyoid muscle. In it are contained chiefly the ramifications of the cervical plexus ; and a chain of lymphatic glands lies along the sterno- mastoid muscle. The spinal accessory nerve (i0) is directed obliquely across this interval from the sterno-mastoid muscle, which it pierces, to the under surface of the trapezius ; and a communica- tion takes place between it and the spinal nerves in the space. Superficial Branches of the Cervical Plexus. These nerves emerge from beneath the sterno-mastoid muscle about the middle of its hinder border, and are thence directed both upwards and downwards. The ascending set (fig. 14) are three in number, viz., small occipital, great auricular, and superficial cervical. The small occipital branch (fig. 2, 2) comes from the second, and in most cases also from the third cervical nerves, and is directed upwards to the head along the posterior border of the sterno- mastoid muscle. It perforates the fascia near the skull, and is dis-