OSSICLES OF THE TYMPANUM. 735 lining of the tympanum ; an internal, continuous with that lining j[ ^Jee the cochlea; and a central layer of fibrous tissue. Ossicles of the Tympanum (fig. 234). Three in number, they Ossicles of are placed in a line across the tympanic cavity. The outer one is nuni arePa' named malleus from its resemblance to a mallet; the next, incus, three, being compared to an anvil; and the last, stapes, from its likeness to a stirrup. For their examination the student should be provided with some separate ossicles. The malleus (fig. 233) is the longest bone, and is twisted and Malleus has bent. It is large at the upper part (head ; a), and small and pointed below (handle ; c) ; and it has two processes, with a narrowed part Fig. 233.* or neck. The head or capitulum (a) is free in the cavity, is club- head, shaped, and at the back has a depression for articulation with the next bone. The neck (b) is the constricted part between the head neck, and the processes. The handle or manubrium (c) decreases in size handle, towards the tip, and is compressed from before backwards ; but at the extremity it is flattened from within outwards : to its outer margin the special fibrous stratum of the membrana tympani is connected. The short process (e) springs from the root of the handle on the short outer side, and is attached to the upper border of the tympanic membrane where it bridges across the notch of Rivinus. The long and long process (processus gracilis ; d) is during infancy a slender flattened process- piece of bone, which projects from the neck of the malleus at the anterior aspect, and extends into the Glaserian fissure; in the adult this process is most frequently converted into a fibrous band ; and in cases where the osseous process persists, it is joined with the sur- rounding bone, and cannot be separated. The incus is a flattened bone (fig. 233), and consists of a body incus: and two processes. The body (b) is hollowed at the fore part (a) to body; articulate with the malleus. The short process (c) is somewhat *£°£jrsses' eonical. and projects backwards nearly horizontally; its extremity rests against the lower and inner part of the margin bounding the opening into the mastoid antrum. The long process (c£) is almost and long. * The three tympanic ossicles of the right side : the central bone is the malleus, the left-hand one, incus, and the right-hand one stapes. Malleus : a, head ; b, neck ; c, handle; d, long, and e, short process. Incus : a, articular surface for malleus ; b, body; c, short process ; d, long process; e, orbicular process. Stapes : a, head; b, neck ; c, anterior crus ; d, base.