INTERNAL MAXILLARY ARTERY. 37 backward movement is checked by the external lateral ligament and by the meeting of the condyle with the postglenoid process of the temporal bone. The oblique movement is produced by the condyle of one side Oblique advancing on the articular eminence, while the other remains in the howpro- glenoid fossa. If the right condyle advances, the chin moves to the <iuced. left side, and the grinding teeth of the lower jaw are carried obliquely to the left and forwards across the upper set. By the alternate action to opposite sides the food is triturated. Dissection. The condyle of the jaw is next to be disarticulated Dissection and drawn forwards with the attached external pterygoid muscle, so maxillary as to allow the inferior maxillary nerve to be seen (fig. 22). While nerve» cutting through the joint-capsule, the dissector must be careful of the auriculo-temporal nerve close beneath. On turning forwards the pterygoid muscle, and removing some its trunk fat, the dissector will find the trunk of the inferior maxillary nerve. The masseteric, temporal, and buccal branches of the nerve should and be traced to a common origin close below the foramen ovale of the brancnes '> sphenoid bone. The dental and lingual nerves should be cleaned beneath the muscle; and the auriculo-temporal nerve followed for- wards with care from the back of the articulation to its origin from the trunk. The small chorda tympani is to be found joining the of chorda back of the lingual nerve near the skull. tympani, The large meningeal artery and its offsets are to be sought beneath and arteries, the external pterygoid. Sometimes the trunk of the internal maxillary artery lies beneath that muscle, and in that case, it and its branches are now to be cleaned. The INTERNAL MAXILLARY ARTERY (fig. 19, 8) IS One of the ter- Internal minal branches of the external carotid, and takes a winding course artery,^ beneath the lower jaw and the temporal muscle to the spheno- maxillary fossa, where it ends in branches for the face, the interior of the nose, and the palate and pharynx. At first the artery is directed forwards between the ramus of the ^^j^ld jaw and the internal lateral ligament of the joint, and crosses the dental nerve ; it then ascends over the lower portion of the external pterygoid, being placed between it and the temporal muscle; and finally, it turns inwards opposite the interval between the heads of the external pterygoid to gain the spheno-maxillary fossa. The course of the artery is sometimes beneath, instead of over the exter- varies in its nal pterygoid ; and when that is the case, the artery reaches the i)OSltlon- spheno-maxillary fossa by passing between the heads of the muscle, as in the figure. The branches of this artery are numerous, and are classed in three Branches sets : the first set arises beneath the jaw; the second between the fel™three muscles ; and the third in the spheno-maxillary fossa. Two chief branches, viz., the inferior dental and the great Those be- meningeal, leave the internal maxillary artery while it is in contact neath jaw' with the ramus of the jaw. The inferior dental artery descends between the internal lateral inferior ligament and the jaw, and enters the foramen on the inner surface dental