298 DISSECTION OF THE HAND. and arches. Ulnar nerve in the hand divides into deep and superficial parts. Digital nerves are two. Median nerve sup- plies mus- cles and digits. Branch to muscles. Five digital nerves. First two, third, fourth, fifth. On the sides finger and tlie slieath of the tendons ; and twigs are supplied to the phalangeal articulations from small arterial arches on the hones— an arch being close above each joint. On the dorsum of the last phalanx is a plexus from which the nail-pulp is supplied. Palmar part of the ulnar nerve (fig. 87,The ulnar nerve divides, on or near the annular ligament, into a superficial and a deep part. The deep 'part accompanies the deep branch of the artery to the muscles, and will be dissected with that vessel (fig. 88). The superficial part furnishes an offset to the palmaris brevis muscle, and some filaments to the integument of the inner part of the hand, and ends in two digital nerves for the supply of both sides of the little finger and half the next. Digital nerves (2). The more internal nerve is undivided, like the corresponding artery. The other is directed to the cleft between the ring and little fingers, and bifurcates for the supply of their opposed sides : in the palm of the hand this branch is connected with an offset (5) of the median nerve. Along the sides of the fingers the digital branches have the same arrangement as those of the median nerve. Palmar part of the median nerve (fig. 87,3). As soon as the median nerve issues from beneath the annular ligament it becomes enlarged and somewhat flattened, and divides into two nearly equal parts for the supply of digital nerves to the thumb and the remaining two fingers and a half; the outer part also furnishes a small muscular branch to the ball of the thumb. The branches of the nerve are covered by the fascia and the superficial palmar arch; and beneath them are the tendons of the flexor muscles. a. The branch to muscles of the thumb (4) supplies the outermost part of the flexor brevis, the abductor, and the opponens pollicis muscles. b. The digital nerves (5) are five in number. Three of them, which are distributed to the sides of the thumb, and to the radial side of the fore finger, are undivided, and come from the external of the two pieces into which the trunk of the median splits. The other two spring from the inner piece of the nerve, and are bifurcated to supply the opposed sides of the middle and fore, and the middle and ring fingers. The first two nerves belong to the thumb, one on each side, and the outer one communicates with a branch of the radial nerve. The third is directed to the radial side of the index finger, and gives a branch to the most external lumbrical muscle. The fourth furnishes a nerve to the second lumbrical muscle, and divides to supply the contiguous sides of the fore and middle fingers. The fifth also divides into two branches, which are distributed to the opposed sides of the middle and ring fingers : it communicates with a branch of the ulnar nerve. On the fingers. On the sides of the fingers the nerves are super-