681 FOURTH LAYER OF MUSCLES. The interosseous muscles (fig. 209) are situate in the intervals interossei. between the metatarsal bones : they consist of two sets, plantar and -dorsal, like the interossei in the hand. Seven in number, there are three plantar and four dorsal; and two are found in each space, except the innermost. The plantar muscles (o) belong to the outer three toes, and are Three plan- slender fleshy slips. Each arises from the under and inner surface outer toes, of the metatarsal bone ; and is inserted partly into the tibial side of the base of the metatarsal phalanx of the same toe, and partly by an •expansion to the extensor tendons on the dorsum of the phalanx. These muscles are smaller than the dorsal, and are placed more in the sole of the foot. The dorsal muscles (i), one in each space, arise by two heads from Four dorsal . . between the the lateral surfaces of the bones between which they lie ; and are bones. inserted like the others into the side, and on the dorsum of the meta- tarsal phalanx of certain toes :—Thus, the inner two muscles belong to the second toe, one to each side ; the next belongs to the outer side of the third toe ; and the remaining one to the outer side of the fourth toe. The interossei are crossed by the external plantar vessels and Relations, nerve, and their digital branches, and lie beneath the transversus pedis and the metatarsal ligament. The posterior perforating arteries pierce the hinder extremities of the dorsal set. Action. Like the interossei of the hand (p. 305) they will contri- bute to the bending of the metatarso-phalangeal joints, and straighten ^ ^ the two interphalangeal joints, tensors: They can act also as abductors and adductors of the toes. Thus, as adduc- the plantar set will bring the three outer toes towards the second 01S' toe ; and the dorsal muscles will abduct from the middle line of the ductors. second toe,—the two attached to that digit moving it to the right and left of the said line. Dissection. Following the tendon of the tibialis posticus muscle Trace out from its position behind the inner malleolus to its insertion into the tendons? navicular bone, trace the numerous processes that it sends forwards and outwards. Open also the fibrous sheath of the tendon of the peroneus longus, which crosses from the outer to the inner side of the foot. The tendon of the tibialis posticus is continued forwards over insertion of the internal lateral ligament of the ankle-joint, and over the astra- tibialis pos- galo-navicular articulation, to be inserted into the tuberosity of the ticus navicular bone. From its insertion processes are continued to many of the other bones of the foot :—One is directed backwards to the into tarsus sustentaculum tali of the os calcis. Two offsets are directed for- wards ;—one to the internal cuneiform bone ; the other, much the<- largest, is attached to the middle and outer cuneiform, to the cuboid bone, and to the bases of the second, third, and fourth metatarsal and me*a- bones. In other words, pieces are fixed into all the tarsal bones ex- arsus" cept one (astragalus), and into all the metatarsal bones except two (first and fifth). Where the tendon is placed beneath the articulation of the astra-