DISSECTION OF THE ABDOMEN. 450 Last dorsal nerve. Ilio-hypo gastric nerve : iliac part and hypo- gastric part. Ilio-inguinal nerve. Dissection of transver- salis fascia. Transver- salis fascia is best marked in the groin ; pierced by internal abdominal ring. Ending of fascia below Situation of The last dorsal nerve (x) is placed below the twelfth rib, and therefore not in an intercostal space, but it has a similar course and distribution to the foregoing. As it extends forwards to the rectus it communicates sometimes with the ilio-hypogastric nerve. Its lateral cutaneous branch perforates the two oblique muscles (p. 438). The ilio-hypogastric nerve (2) perforates the back of the transversalis muscle near the iliac crest, and divides into iliac and hypogastric branches. The iliac branch pierces both oblique muscles close to the crest of the ilium, to reach the gluteal region (p. 632). The hypogastric branch is directed forwards above the hip-bone, giving twigs to the transverse and internal oblique muscles, and communicating with the ilio-inguinal nerve. It perforates the fleshy part of the internal oblique near the front of the iliac crest, and the aponeurosis of the external oblique near the linea alba, finally becoming cutaneous in the hypogastric region (p. 438). The ilio-inguinal nerve perforates the transversalis muscle near the front of the iliac crest. It afterwards pierces the internal oblique, and reaches the surface through the external abdominal ring (p. 438) : it furnishes offsets to the internal oblique, the trans- versalis, and the pyramidalis. Dissection. To see the transversalis fascia on the right side, it will be necessary to raise the lower part of the transversalis muscle by two incisions :—one of these is to be carried through the fibres attached to Poupart's ligament ; the other, across the muscle from the front of the iliac crest to the margin of the rectus. With a little care the muscle may be separated easily from the thin fascia beneath. The transversalis fascia (fig. 142, g) is a thin fibrous layer be- tween the transversalis muscle and the peritoneum. In the inguinal region, where it is unsupported by muscles, the fascia is considerably stronger than elsewhere, and is joined by some tendinous fibres of the transversalis muscle ; but farther from the pelvis it gradually decreases in strength, until at the thorax it becomes very thin. In the part of the fascia now laid bare is the internal abdominal ring, which gives passage to the spermatic cord, or the round liga- ment of the uterus, according to the sex ; it resembles the hole into the finger of a glove in being visible from within, but not externally, owing to the fascia being prolonged from its margin on the cord. On the inner side of the ring the fascia is thinner than on the outer, and is fixed to the body of the pubis, and to the ilio-pectineal line behind the conjoined tendon, with which it is united. Along the outer half of Poupart's ligament the fascia ends by joining the posterior margin of that band, and it will be afterwards seen to unite with the iliac fascia for the same extent (p. 463) ; but beneath the inner half of the ligament it is continued downwards to the thigh, in front of the blood-vessels, to form the anterior part of the crural sheath around them. Internal abdominal ring (fig. 142). This opening is situate mid-