547 RELATIONS OF THE RECTUM. ilie bladder and the rectum, the place of reflection being lower when those organs are empty, and rising when they are distended. With the bladder and rectum moderately filled, the end of the pouch is commonly about one inch and a half from the tip of the coccyx, and three inches (or the length of the fore finger) from the anus. False liqaments of the bladder. These are parts of the continuous False Hga- 111611 ts Of sheet of peritoneum reflected from the bladder to the pelvic and bladder: abdominal wall. Five ligaments are described, viz., two posterior, two lateral, and one superior. The posterior false ligament (one on each side) reaches from the posterior; upper and hinder part of the bladder to the front of the sacrum, and forms the side-wall of the recto-vesical pouch. Beneath it are the internal iliac vessels, the obliterated hypogastric artery, the ureter, and the pelvic plexus of the sympathetic. The lateral false ligament (also one on each side) is the widest, and lateral; is reflected from the side of the bladder to the iliac fossa and the wall of the pelvis. It is separated from the posterior and superior liga- ments by the obliterated hypogastric artery. The superior false ligament is the portion of peritoneum 'between superior the two obliterated hypogastric arteries, reflected from the upper surface of the bladder over the urachus to the anterior abdominal wall. The rectum, or last part of the great intestine (fig. 170, Jc), Rectum: extends from the brim of the pelvis, near the sacro-iliac articulation j^th ^ of the left side, to the anus, and is about eight inches long. The 1)0wel has a sinuous course, for it first follows the curve of the sacrum conrse and and coccyx, and then inclines backwards to the anus ; and it is supports; supported mainly by the peritoneum., the recto-vesical fascia, and the perineal muscles. For convenience of description it is divided into divisions, three parts :— The upper portion, longer than the others, extends to the centre of First part the third piece of the sacrum. It is almost entirely surrounded by covered by peritoneum, which forms a distinct fold, or meso-rectum, between its peritoneum, 3.ncl move- upper end and the front of the sacrum, so that some degree of move- able; ment from side to side is permitted. Behind it are the sacrum, with relations. the pyriformis muscle and sacral plexus of the left side ; and the left ureter and internal iliac vessels are adjacent to it, but separated by the peritoneum.* The middle portion lies behind the bladder, and reaches to the tip Second part is fixed ■ of the coccyx ; it is about three inches in length, and is covered by peritoneum in front for about the upper half of its extent. Im- mediately below this it pierces the recto-vesical fascia, and receives its sheath from that membrane. Resting on it is the triangular relations, part of the bladder, with the vesiculse seminales and vasa deferentia; and beneath it are the sacrum and coccyx. On each side is the coccygeus muscle. The lower portion is about an inch and a half long, and is curved Third partu largest;. * In some bodies the first part of the rectum is much curved to the right side ; and occasionally this piece of the intestine lies altogether on the right of the sacrum, the lower end of the left colon crossing the spine at the brim of the pelvis. N N 2