528 DISSECTION OF THE ABDOMEN. Renal artery is beneath its vein; gives off- sets ; difference between left and right. Capsular artery. Spermatic artery is remarkable course to the testicle condition in the foetus : in the female. Branches to wall of abdomen. Inferior phrenic : course of left and right; distribu- tion ; small offsets. Other arteries to diaphragm. teric, renal, capsular, and spermatic. Of these, the first three have already been examined. The renal arteries (fig. 166, c) leave the aorta nearly at a right angle, and are directed outwards, one on each side. Near the kidney each divides into four or five branches, -which enter the hilum of the organ between the vein and the ureter. Each artery lies beneath its companion vein, being surrounded by a plexus of nerves, and supplies small twigs to the suprarenal body {inferior capsular), to the ureter, and to the fatty layer about the kidney. The arteries of opposite sides have some differences. The left is the shorter, owing to the position of the aorta : the right crosses the spine, and passes beneath the vena cava. The middle capsular or suprarenal artery is a small branch which runs almost transversely outwards to the suprarenal body : this offset anastomoses with the other branches to the suprarenal body from the renal and diaphragmatic arteries. It is of large size in the foetus. The spermatic artery of the testicle (fig. 166, d) is remarkable for its small size in proportion to its length ; for leaving the cavity of the abdomen ; and for having the part in the abdomen straight, but that in the cord tortuous. From its origin below the renal, the vessel passes downwards along the posterior wall of the abdomen to the internal abdominal ring, where it enters the spermatic cord (p. 452). In its course, beneath the peritoneum the vessel runs along the front of the psoas, crossing over the ureter; and on the right side it passes over the vena cava. It is accompanied by the spermatic vein, and the sper- matic plexus of nerves. In the foetus before the testicle leaves the abdomen the spermatic artery is very short, but the vessel elongates as the testis is removed from its original position. In the female the corresponding artery {ovarian) descends into the pelvis to end in the ovary and the uterus. The parietal branches of the aorta are the diaphragmatic, lumbar,, and middle sacral. The diaphragmatic arteries (inferior phrenic ; fig. 166, a) are frequently united together at their origin, or with the cceliac axis. They course upwards along the posterior part of the under surface of the diaphragm, the left artery passing behind the oesophageal opening, and the right behind the vena cava. Each ends in two branches :—One (internal) passes onwards towards the front of the diaphragm, and anastomoses with its fellow, and with the superior phrenic and musculo-phrenic branches of the internal mammary. The other (external) is larger, and is directed outwards to the side of the muscle, where it communicates with the inter- costal arteries. Branches. Small offsets to the suprarenal body from the external division of this artery are named superior capsular. Some twigs are given by the left artery to the oesophagus, and by the right to the- vena cava. On the under surface of the diaphragm are two branches of the-