DISSECTION OF THE ORBIT. 50 and tempo- ral offsets. Orbitalis muscle. Apparatus for the tears. Dissection. Apertures in eyelids. Canals for the tears. Receptacle of the tears. Situation of the sac, or dilated part. outer part of the cheek : it communicates here with the facial nerve (p. 38). The temporal branch ascends in a groove in the bone on the outer wall of the orbit, and after being joined by a filament from the lachrymal nerve, passes into the temporal fossa through the tempo- ral canal in the malar bone : it is then directed upwards between the temporal muscle and the skull, and perforates the temporal fascia near the orbit (p. 8). Orbitalis muscle. At the lower and outer angle of the orbit this thin layer of unstriped muscle is sometimes well seen. The fibres cross the spheno-maxillary fissure, being attached to the edges, and are pierced by the temporo-malar nerve. Lachrymal Apparatus (fig. 13). The lachrymal gland, puncta, canals, and sac, with the nasal duct, constitute the apparatus by which the tears are formed and conveyed to the nose. The gland has been already described (p. 40). Dissection. A bristle or blunted pin should be introduced into each lachrymal canal through the punctum of the eyelid. The lachrymal sac will appear on removing the tensor tarsi and the areolar tissue from its surface, as it lies on the lachrymal bone. The prolongation from the internal tarsal ligament over the sac should be defined. The puncta lachrymalia (*), one in each lid, are the openings of the lachrymal canals. Each is situate on the free margin of the lid, about a quarter of an inch from the inner canthus, and at the summit of the papilla lachrymalis. The lachrymal canals (canali- culi, fig. 13,2 and3) lead from the puncta, and convey the tears to the lachrymal sac. From the margin of the lid, each canal is directed vertically for about half a line, and then bends inwards, following the course of the inter- nal tarsal ligament. Internally the two canals converge, and they open into the lachrymal sac, rather above its middle, either sepa- rately or by a common orifice. The lachrymal sac and nasal duct extend from the inner side of the orbit to the nose, and convey the tears into the latter cavity. They form one tube, of which the upper dilated end is the sac, and the lower part the duct. The sac (5) is placed in the hollow formed by the nasal process of the superior maxillary and the lachrymal bones. In front, it is crossed by the ligament of the eyelids; and behind, it is covered by * The eyelids and lachrymal apparatus. 1. Puilcta lachrymalia. 2. Upper, and 3, lower lachrymal canal. 4. Caruncula lachrymalis. 5. Lachrymal sac. 6. Nasal duct.