DISSECTION" OF BACK OF FOREARM. 306 as abductors The interosseous muscles also separate and approximate the tors. straightened fingers, the palmar set adducting the index, ring and little fingers towards the middle digit; while the dorsal abduct their fingers from the median line of the hand, the two fixed to the middle finger moving it to either side of that line. Dissection. Dissection. The attachments of the annular ligament to the carpal bones on each side are next to be dissected out by taking away the small muscles of the thumb arid little finger. Before reading its description, the ends of the cut ligament may be placed in appo- sition, and fixed with a stitch. Annular The anterior annular ligament is a broad band, which arches offront* over and hinds down the flexor tendons of the fingers. It is of wrist. attached internally to the pisiform and unciform bones, and ex- ternally to the tuberosity of the scaphoid and the ridge of the trapezium, as well as by a deeper process to the trapezoid bone on the inner side of the groove for the flexor carpi radialis. By its upper border it is continuous with the aponeurosis of the forearm ; and on its anterior surface it is joined by the palmar fascia. Over it lie the palmaris longus tendon and the ulnar vessels and nerve. Dissection. Dissection. Next follow the tendon of the flexor carpi radialis to its insertion into the metacarpal bones, by dividing the overlying part of the anterior annular ligament, flexor car °'f ^e ien<^on °f flexor carpi radialis, in passing from the fore- ratUaiis.arpi arm to the hand, lies in the groove in the trapezium between the attachments of the annular ligament, but outside the arch of that band ; here it is bound down by a fibrous sheath lined by a synovial membrane. The tendon is inserted into the base of the metacarpal bone of the index finger, and sends a slip to that of the middle digit. Section VI. THE BACK. OF THE FOREARM. Position. Position. During the dissection of the back of the forearm the limb lies on the front, and a small block is to be placed beneath the wrist for the purpose of stretching the tendons. Takeaway Dissection (fig. 91). The fascia and the cutaneous nerves and nciai^erves vesse-^s are to De reflected from the muscles of the forearm, and and the from the tendons on the back of the hand ; but in removing the fascia. fascia in the forearm, the student must be careful not to cut away the posterior interosseous vessels, which are in contact with it on the ulnar side in the lower third. A thickened band of the fascia opposite the carpus (the posterior annular ligament) is to be left. Strip Let the integument be removed from the fingers, in order that fingers. ^ tendons may be traced to the end of the digits. Separate The several muscles should be separated from one another up to muscles. their origin, especially the two radial extensors of the wrist.