14 DISSECTION OF THE HEAD. occipital protuberance, along the winding groove on the occipital, parietal and temporal bones, to the jugular foramen, where it ends difference in the internal jugular vein. The sinus of the right side is generally .skies^0 larger than the left, and begins at the torcular Herophili (p. 10), forming the continuation of the superior longitudinal sinus. The left lateral sinus is mainly prolonged from the ending of the straight sinus, but it is also joined by a branch from the lower- end of the superior longitudinal sinus, which crosses obliquely in front of the occipital protuberance. In some cases this arrangement is reversed, so that the torcular Herophili and the larger lateral sinus are placed on the left side ; and occasionally the torcular Herophili forms a common place of meeting (confluence) of the superior longitudinal, the straight and the two lateral sinuses. tarieslibU" ^atera^ smus i-s joined by some cerebral and cerebellar veins, and, opposite the upper edge of the petrous portion of the temporal bone, by the superior petrosal sinus. It communicates with the occipital veins through the mastoid foramen, and often with the deep veins of the neck through the posterior condylar foramen. oftheViSi°n juSu^ar foramerL is divided into three compartments by jugular fibrous bands. Through the posterior opening the lateral sinus foramen. passes ; through the anterior the inferior petrosal sinus; and through the central one the ninth, tenth, and eleventh nerves. Dissection. Dissection. To examine the cavernous sinus on the left side, cut through the dura mater by the side of the body of the sphenoid bone from the anterior to the posterior clinoid process, and internal to the position of the third nerve ; behind the clinoid process, let the knife be directed inwards for about half the width of the basilar part of the occipital bone. By placing the handle of the scalpel in the opening thus made, the extent of the space will be defined. A probe or a blow-pipe will be required, in order that it may be passed into the different sinuses joining the cavernous centre. Cavernous B. The cavernous sinus, which has been so named from the 1 ! " reticulate structure in its interior, is situate on the side of the body of the sphenoid bone. This space, resulting from the separation of the two layers of the dura mater, is of an irregular shape, and extends from the sphenoidal fissure to the tip of the petrous portion of the temporal bone, has nerves The layer of dura mater bounding the sinus externally is of wall1*61 some thickness, and contains in its substance the third and fourth nerves, with the ophthalmic trunk of the fifth nerve; these lie in their numerical order from above down, contains The cavity of the sinus is larger behind than before, and is SrSyand traversed by a network of slender fibrous cords. Through the sixth nerve: space winds the trunk of the internal carotid artery surrounded by the sympathetic, with the sixth nerve on the outer side of the vessel ; but all these are separated from the blood in the space by a thin lining membrane. tributaries The cavernous sinus receives the ophthalmic veins from the orbit munica?" through the sphenoidal fissure, and some inferior cerebral veins, tions. it communicates with its fellow of the opposite side by the inter-