DISSECTION OF FRONT OF FOREARM. 292 metacarpal, d. The metacarpal branch arises from the artery near the lower end of the ulna, and runs along the metacarpal bone of the little finger, of which it is the inner dorsal branch. and carpal. e. The carpal branches (anterior and posterior) ramify on the front and back of the carpus, on which they anastomose with cor- responding offsets of the radial artery, and form arches across the wrist. The origin and course may vary. Peculiarities of the ulnar artery. The origin of the artery may be trans- ferred to any point of the main vessel in the arm or axilla. In one instance R. Quain found the ulnar artery arising between two and three inches below the elbow. When it begins higher than usual, it is generally superficial to the flexor muscles at the bend of the elbow (only one exception, R. Quain), but beneath the aponeurosis of the forearm ; though sometimes it is subcutaneous with the superficial veins. Ulnar nerve in the fore- arm. Its branches are to elbow- joint, to two muscles of forearm, cutaneous branch of palm of hand, cutaneous nerve of back of hand. Median nerve lies between the two groups of muscles. The ulnar nerve (fig. 85,4) enters the forearm between the attachments of the flexor carpi ulnaris to the olecranon and inner condyle of the humerus. Under cover of that muscle the nerve reaches the ulnar artery somewhat above the middle (in length) of the forearm, and is continued on the inner side of the vessel to the hand. On the annular ligament the nerve is rather deeper than the artery. It gives off the following branches :— a. Articular nerves. In the interval between the olecranon and the inner condyle, slender filaments are furnished to the joint. b. Muscular branches arise from the nerve near the elbow, and supply the flexor carpi ulnaris and the inner half of the flexor pro- fundus digitorum. c. Cutaneous nerve of the forearm and hand. A small palmar branch (5) arises about the middle of the forearm, and descends on the ulnar artery, sending twigs around that vessel, to end in the integuments of the palm of the hand : sometimes a cutaneous off- set perforates the aponeurosis near the wrist, and joins the internal cutaneous nerve. d. The dorsal cutaneous nerve of the hand leaves the trunk about two inches above the end of the ulna, and passes obliquely backwards beneath the flexor carpi ulnaris ; perforating the aponeurosis, it is distributed on the back of the hand and fingers (p. 285). The median nerve (fig. 85,*) leaves the hollow of the elbow between the heads of the pronator teres, and runs in the middle line of the limb to the hand. It is placed beneath the flexor sublimis as low as two inches from the annular ligament, where it becomes superficial along the outer border of the tendons of that muscle. Lastly, the nerve passes beneath the annular ligament to the palm of the hand. It supplies the muscles on the front of the forearm, and furnishes a cutaneous offset to the hand. a. Eadial trunk. b. Superficial volar branch. G. Ulnar trunk. d. Its posterior recurrent branch, e. Anterior interosseous. /. Median artery. g. Brachial trunk. Nerves : 1. Median. 2. Anterior interosseous. 3. Cu- taneous palmar branch. 4. Ulnar trunk. 5. Cutaneous palmar branch of ulnar.