278 DISSECTION OF THE ARM. Ulnar nerve is without branch as far as the elbow. Internal cutaneous nerve be- neath the fascia. Nerve of Wrisberg beneath the fascia. Musculo- cutaneous nerve in the arm : its muscular branches. Dissection. Define brachialis. Brachialis anticus : origin; insertion. with, the musculo-cutaneous nerve. Its relations to muscles are the same as those of the artery. The ulnar nerve (4), derived from the inner cord of the brachial plexus, lies at first close to the inner side of the axillary, and then of the brachial artery as far as the insertion of the coraco-brachialis : leaving now the blood-vessel, it is directed backwards through the inner intermuscular septum to the interval between the olecranon and the internal condyle, being surrounded by the muscular fibres of the triceps. There is not any branch from the nerve till it reaches the elbow-joint. The internal cutaneous (2) is a tegumentary nerve of the fore- arm. Arising from the inner cord of the plexus, it is at first superficial to the brachial artery as far as the middle of the arm, where it divides into two branches that perforate the investing fascia and reach the forearm (p. 284). Near the axilla it furnishes a small offset to the skin of the front of the arm. The nerve of Wrisberg (small internal cutaneous ;3) arises with the preceding. Concealed at first by the axillary vein, it is directed inwards beneath (but sometimes through) that vein, and joins with the intercosto-humeral nerve. Afterwards it lies along the inner part of the arm as far as the middle, where it perforates the fascia to end in the integument (p. 272). The musculocutaneous nerve, named from supplying muscles and integuments, ends on the surface of the forearm. It leaves the outer cord of the brachial plexus opposite the lower border of the pectoralis minor (p. 256), and immediately perforates the coraco- brachialis : it is tli en directed obliquely to the outer side of the limb between the biceps and brachialis anticus muscles. At the front of the elbow it becomes a cutaneous nerve of the forearm. Branches. The nerve furnishes branches to the muscles of the front of the arm, viz., the coraco-brachialis as it passes through the fibres, and to the biceps and brachialis anticus where it is placed between them. Dissection. The brachialis anticus muscle will be brought into view by cutting through the tendon of the biceps near the elbow, and turning upwards this muscle. The fascia and areolar tissue should be taken from the fleshy fibres ; and the lateral extent of the muscle should be well defined on each side, so as to show that it reaches the intermuscular septum largely on the inner side, but only for a short distance above on the outer side. Some care is required in detaching the brachialis externally from the muscles of the forearm, to which it is closely ajmlied. As the muscles are separated the musculo-spiral nerve with a small artery comes into sight. The brachialis anticus (fig. 82, h) covers the elbow-joint and the lower half of the front of the humerus. It arises from the anterior surface of the humerus below the insertion of the deltoid muscle ; and from the intermuscular septa on the sides, viz., from all the inner, but from only the upper part of the outer. The fleshy fibres converge to a tendon, which is inserted into the im- pression on the front of the coronoid process of the ulna (p. 295).