LIGAMENTS OF ATLAS AND AXIS. 173 arches of the upper two vertebrae, to which special ligaments are attached. Special ligaments unite the first two cervical vertebrae to each gpeoial^ other and to the occipital bone : some of these are external to, and lo' others within the spinal canal. The ligaments outside the spinal canal are fibrous membranes, JjJjJJJJ which connect the axis to the atlas, and the latter to the occipital vertebra; bone in front and behind. Capsular ligaments also surround the SVone!'1" articulations formed by these bones on each side, but they will be examined more conveniently after the spinal canal has been opened. The anterior atlanto-axial ligament (fig. 46, 3) consists of a mem- ^™t branous layer attached to the anterior arch of the atlas and the body between Fig. 46,* of the axis, and a superficial thickened band in the centre, prolonged atlas and from the upper end of the anterior common ligament, and connect- axi&' ing the ridge on the front of the axis to the tubercle on the anterior arch of the atlas. The anterior occipito-atlantal ligament (fig. 46) resembles the and between foregoing, and passes from the basilar process of the occipital bone, occipital immediately in front of the foramen magnum, to the anterior arch 1)011 e- of the atlas. Its central part is also thickened, and is fixed to the tubercle on the front of the atlas. The posterior occipito-atlantal ligament (fig. 47, l) is a thin broad Posterior membrane, the deep surface of which is intimately united to the between dura mater. It is attached above to the hinder margin of the occipital • • tit l bone and foramen magnum of the occipital bone, and below to the posterior atlas, arch of the atlas. Behind the upper articular process of the atlas it forms an arch over the groove of the bone in this situation, * Externa] ligaments in front between the occipital bone, atlas, and axis. (Bourgery.) 1. Sawn basilar process. 2. Capsule of articulation between occipital bone and atlas, internal to which is the anterior occipito-atlantal ligament. 3. Anterior atlanto-axial. 4. Lateral articulation between the atlas and axis opened.