DISSECTION OF THE NOSE. Next the roof of the mouth is to be turned upwards, and the soft parts are to be divided on the right side opposite the cut in the roof of the nose. Then by sawing through the hard palate and the alveolar process of the upper jaw along the same line, the piece of the skull will be separated into two parts, right and left; the right half will serve for the examination of the meatuses, and the left will show the septum nasi, after the mucous membrane has been removed. The cavity of the nose is placed in the centre of the bones of the face, being situate above the mouth, below the cranium, and between the orbits. This space is divided into two nasal fossse by a vertical partition. Each fossa is larger below than above, and is compressed laterally, so that its diameter from before back or from above down much exceeds that from within out. It communicates with both the face and the pharynx by openings named nares ; and it has also apertures of communication with the sinuses in the surrounding bones, viz., frontal, ethmoid, sphenoid, and superior maxillary. Each fossa presents for examination a roof and floor, an inner and outer wall, and an anterior and posterior opening. The roof is strongly arched from before back, and is formed by the cribriform plate of the ethmoid bone in the centre ; by the frontal and nasal bones, and the cartilages in front; and by the body of the sphenoid, with the sphenoidal spongy bone, and the palate bone, at the posterior part. In the dried skull many apertures exist in it ; most are in the ethmoid bone for the branches of the olfactory nerve with vessels, and one for the nasal nerve and vessels ; on the front of the body of the sphenoid is the opening of its sinus. The floor is slightly hollowed from side to side, and is formed by the palate processes of the superior maxillary and palate bones. Near the front in the dry skull is the incisor foramen leading to the anterior palatine fossa. The inner wall (septum nasi) is partly osseous and partly cartila- ginous. The osseous part is constructed by the vomer, by the perpendicular plate of the ethmoid bone, and by those parts of the frontal and nasal with which this last bone articulates. The angular space in front in the prepared skull is filled in the recent state by the cartilage of the septum, which forms part of the parti- tion between the nostrils, and supports the lateral cartilages. Fixed between the vomer, the ethmoid, and the nasal bones, this cartilage rests in front on the incisor crest of the superior maxillae, and projects between the cartilages of the nostrils. The septum nasi is commonly bent to one side. The outer wall has the greatest extent and the most irregular surface. Seven bones enter into its formation, and they come in the following order from before backwards :—the nasal and superior maxillary ; the small lachrymal bone and the lateral mass of the ethmoid, with the inferior turbinate bone below these ; and posteriorly the ascending part of the palate bone, with the internal