OPTIC THALAMUS. 223 the capsule are collected into separate bundles, between which the grey matter is continued from the caudate to the lenticular nucleus. On the outer side of the external capsule, separating that from ciaustrum. the medullary substance of the convolutions of the insula, is a third portion of grey matter, a thin layer which appears as a slightly wavy line in sections : this is named the ciaustrum (fig. 66, ct). The tcenia semicircularis (fig. 63, f) is a narrow whitish band of Teenia semi- longitudinal fibres, which lies along the groove between the caudate circulans- nucleus and the optic thalamus. In front, the band becomes broader and joins the pillar of the fornix; behind, it is continued with the tail of the caudate nucleus into the roof of the descending cornu of the lateral ventricle, at the lower end of which it joins the cortical grey matter. Dissection. The anterior commissure is next to be exposed in its Anterior course through the cerebral hemisphere. For this purpose the !?u™™s~ remaining fore part of the caudate nucleus, the white fibres, and the dissection lenticular nucleus, on the right side, must be successively scraped to show it; away with the handle of the scalpel, and the rounded band traced outwards from the spot where it is seen at the front of the third ventricle to the medullary centre of the temporo-sphenoidal lobe. The anterior commissure is a round bundle of white fibres about its form, as large as a crow-quill, which is free only for about an eighth of an inch in the middle of its extent, where it lies in front of the position, pillars of the fornix (fig. 65, c). Laterally, it passes outwards beneath the corpus striatum, lying between the lenticular nucleus and course, and the grey matter of the anterior perforated space, and curving back- wards, spreads out in the white substance of the temporo-sphenoidal ending, lobe above the descending cornu of the lateral ventricle. The optic thalamus (fig. 65, b) is an oval-shaped body which takes Optic part in bounding the lateral and third ventricles. Its upper sur- face is marked by a shallow oblique groove, which corresponds to SUrface the edge of the fornix. The part of the surface inside the groove is in contact with the velum interpositum ; but the narrower outer part is free in the floor of the lateral ventricle, and is covered by the ependyma of that cavity : at its anterior end it forms a slight pro- minence known as the tubercle of the optic thalamus. Externally this surface is bounded by the taenia semicircularis, which separates it from the caudate nucleus. The inner surface is for the most part inner free, forming the lateral wall of the third ventricle, but near the ' ' middle it is united to the one of the opposite side by the soft com- missure. Along the line of junction of the upper and internal sur- faces is a narrow white streak—the pineal stria (/), which springs behind from the stalk of the pineal body, and ends in front by join- ing the anterior pillar of the fornix. The under surface is concealed, except at its hindmost part, by the lower and ■cms cerebri, the tegmentum of which joins the thalamus : and on externai suriciccs the outer side it is separated from the lenticular nucleus by the posterior limb of the internal capsule (fig. 66, icp). The anterior end of the optic thalamus bounds the foramen of anterior and Monro. The posterior end is much larger, and projects above the endsT*^ thalamus: