MENINGEAL ARTERIES. 15 cavernous sinuses, and with the pterygoid plexus outside the skull through the foramen ovale and the foramen lacerum. The blood leaves the cavity by the superior and inferior petrosal sinuses. The intercavernous sinuses are two vessels which pass trans- intercavem- versely in the sella turcica between the right and left cavernous circular sinuses, being placed one in front of, and the other behind the sinus. pituitary body. To the venous ring thus formed around the pituitary body the name of circular sinus has been given. The SUPERIOR PETROSAL SINUS (fig. 3,/) lies in a groove in the Superior upper edge of the petrous part of the temporal bone, and extends petrosal- between the cavernous and lateral sinuses. Small veins from the cerebellum are received into it. The inferior petrosal sinus (fig. 3, li) is larger than the superior, inferior and lies in a groove along the line of junction of the petrous part petrosaL of the temporal with the basilar process of the occipital bone ; it is joined by small veins from the cerebellum, and one from the internal ear. This sinus passes through the anterior compartment of the jugular foramen, and ends in the internal jugular vein. The TRANSVERSE SINUS Or BASILAR PLEXUS is a venous network Transverse in the substance of the dura mater over the basilar process of the gfn^sllar occipital bone, uniting the inferior petrosal sinuses. Meningeal Arteries. These arteries supplying the cranium Arteries of and the dura mater come through the base of the skull; they have a^_fiater been named from their situation in the three fossae, anterior, middle, and posterior meningeal. The anterior meningeal are small branches of the anterior Anterior ethmoidal artery (p. 46), which enters the skull by the anterior meninseal- internal orbital canal : they are distributed to the dura mater over and near the ethmoid bone. The middle meningeal arteries are three in number: Middle two, named large and small, are derived from the internal maxillary memnSeal- trunk ; and the third is an offset of the ascending pharyngeal artery. a. The large meningeal branch of the internal maxillary artery Large from appears through the foramen spinosum of the sphenoid bone, and maxillary divides into two principal branches. The larger of these enters 'the deep groove on the anterior inferior angle of the parietal bone, and ends in ramifications which extend upwards to the top of the head and forwards over the frontal bone. The posterior branch is dis- tributed over the hinder part of the parietal and the upper part of the occipital bones. Two veins accompany this artery. As soon as the artery comes into the cranial cavity, it furnishes |^ghes to branches to the dura mater and to the ganglion of the fifth nerve, dura mater One small offset, petrosal, enters the hiatus Fallopii, and supplies the surrounding bone (Hyrtl). One or two branches pass through and bone, the sphenoidal fissure into the orbit, and anastomose with the ophthalmic artery. b. The small meningeal branch is an offset of the large one Smail outside the skull, and is transmitted through the foramen ovale to memngeal* the membrane lining the middle cranial fossa. c. Another meningeal branch from the ascending pharyngeal One from