213 CORPUS CALLOSUM. Its central part, which is exposed in the longitudinal fissure, is very situation, narrow, and measures about three inches in length. It is nearer to extent and the anterior than to the posterior end of the cerebrum, and is some- form- what arched from before backwards. On each side its upper surface is free for a short distance beneath the callosal convolution, from which it is separated by a groove. In front, the corpus callosum is bent downwards (fig. 62), forming Anterior the yenti and Tostvum as before described (p. 203) ; and behind, it posterior ends in a thickened part named the splenium. ends- The fibres of the corpus callosum are for the most part directed Fibres transversely, but on the upper surface there is a somewhat irregular, transverse ; narrow longitudinal band on each side close to the middle line (strise tudinai°ngl" longitudinales or nerves of Lancisi). Between the two bands is a median groove or raphe. Farther out there may be seen other longitudinal fibres belonging to the covered band, if that has not been completely removed. The longitudinal strise are prolonged downwards in front, and form the peduncles of the corpus callosum (p. 203). Dissection. In order to see the thickness of the corpus callosum, Dissection, and to bring into view the parts in relation with its under surface, a cut is to be made through it on the right side about half an inch from the raphe ; and this is to be extended forwards and backwards, as far as the limits of the underlying ventricle. While cutting through the corpus callosum, the student may observe that a thin membraniform structure (ependyma) lines its under surface. The corpus callosum is thicker at each end than at the centre, in is thickened consequence of a greater number of fibres being collected from the at each encL cerebrum ; and the posterior part is the thickest of all. Connected ^^ce with its under surface along the middle is the septum luciduni or partition between the ventricles (fig. 63, b) at the fore part, and the fornix (c) behind. This is the chief commissural body of the halves of the cerebrum, and its fibres pass laterally into the medullary centre of the hemi- sphere, in which they radiate to the convolutions. Dissection. The left lateral ventricle is to be now opened in the Dissection, same way as the right ; and to prepare for the examination of the cavity on the right side, as much of the corpus callosum as forms the roof of the space is to be removed. A part of the ventricle extends down in the temporo-sphenoidal lobe towards the base of the brain; and to open it, a cut is to be carried outwards and down- wards, through the substance of the hemisphere, along the course of the hollow. (See fig. 63.) Ventricles of the brain. Five ventricles are described in the Brain con- brain ; but four of them are subdivisions of one large central cavity, ventricles, and these are lined throughout by a thin membrane named the ependyma, which is covered by epithelium, for the most part ciliated. They are the two lateral ventricles, one in each cerebral hemisphere, the third ventricle close to the base of the brain, and the fourth ventricle between the cerebellum and the back of the pons and medulla oblongata. The fifth ventricle is a small space between Fifth is