477 PERITONEAL FOLDS ON INTESTINE. Behind it are the posterior part of the great omentum, the transverse colon and meso-colon, the pancreas, the left kidney and suprarenal capsule, and the diaphragm. To the right it extends as far as the and extent, inner border of the duodenum (second part), and to the left as far as the spleen. Between the duodenum and the liver it opens into the general cavity or large bag by the foramen of Winslow. The foramen of Winslow is bounded in front by the right portion Boundaries of the small omentum, containing the hepatic vessels ; below are of winslow. the same vessels and the first part of the duodenum ; above is the caudate lobe of the liver ; and behind, the inferior vena cava. The gastro-splenic omentum (fig. 146, gs dm) reaches from the f^j^' back of the stomach to the front of the spleen, and is continued below omentum: into the great omentum. Between its layers are the gastric branches of the splenic vessels. Folds of the large intestine. The disposition of the peritoneum ^g°t^eal round the several portions of the colon has been explained in giv- large 9 ing their relations (p. 469). The following processes pass between mtestme: the large intestine and the abdominal wall :— The transverse meso-colon (fig. 145, m c) extends from the lower transverse iii6so-colon * border of the pancreas to the transverse colon, to the left of the spot where the latter crosses the duodenum, and contains the middle colic vessels. In the adult it is formed by a continuation of the omental layers, but in the fcetus it was a distinct process of peri- toneum (p. 473). The upper end of the left colon has a distinct fold—pleuro-colic or j?^™"00110 eosto-colic, fixing it to the wall of the abdomen. Attached by a wide end to the diaphragm opposite the tenth and eleventh ribs, it passes transversely inwards to the colon, and forms the lower boundary of a hollow in which the spleen rests. The sigmoid meso-colon is a long process of the serous membrane, m|^^lcm. which attaches the loop of the sigmoid flexure to the brim of the pelvis : it contains the sigmoid vessels. The meso-rectum contains the superior hsemorrhoidal vessels, and *g^^s.°" attaches the upper part of the rectum to the front of the sacrum. In some bodies the ascending and descending colon are surrounded ^™scend^ by peritoneum, which meets behind the gut and forms a fold—the ing or ascending or descending meso-colon, between it and the abdominal wall, mesocolon, The caecum may also be provided with a similar fold (meso-ccecum) or meso- attaching it to the right iliac fossa (p. 469). ceecum. Small processes of the peritoneum are attached along the tube of Appendices pniDloicss the great intestine, chiefly to the transverse colon; they are the appendices epiplo'icm, and contain fat. Folds to the small intestine. The small intestine is not enveloped Peritoneal covering or by the peritoneum after the same manner throughout. For while small intes- the jejunum and ileum are attached to the abdominal wall by one tine* process (mesentery), the duodenum has special relations with the serous membrane. Serous covering of the duodenum. The first part of the duodenum ^"^ode^™ has peritoneal relations like those of the stomach, but its posterior num. or left surface is only covered for a short distance by the serous