230 DISSECTION OF THE CEREBELLUM. posterior, and central. Lower lobes are posterior, slender, biventral, amygdaloid, and flocculus. Lower worm includes tuber valvules, pyramid, uvula, nodule, furrowed band, and inferior medullary velum. Dissection. Inferior medullary velum. Furrowed band. vermiform process. The anterior or quadrate lobe is the larger, and its laminse pass without interruption through the vermiform process into the corresponding lobe of the opposite hemisphere. The posterior lobe is semilunar in shape, and is connected internally with the one of the opposite side by a single lamina (folium cacuminis),, which is deeply placed at the bottom of the median notch. Belonging to this surface there is also at the front of the vermiform process a small part, comprising about eight laminse, which overlaps the superior peduncles, and is known as the central lobe (fig. 65). The lobes of the under surface of the hemisphere (fig. 68) are five in number. Beginning behind, there is first the posterior lobe (k), of a semilunar form, like that of the upper surface, from which it is -separated by the great horizontal fissure ; next comes- the slender lobe (between h and i), composed of three or four parallel laminae ; and then the larger biventral lobe, triangular in shape, and subdivided into two chief parts (i and h). The other two lobes,, although smaller, are more distinct; one is the amygdaloid lobe (g)T which lies to the inner side of the biventral lobe, and projects into the vallecula, touching the medulla oblongata ; and the other is a small conical part named the flocculus or subpeduncular lobe (/)r which is placed in front of the biventral lobe and curves upwards round the lower border of the crus cerebelli, being attached to the general mass of the small brain only by a narrow white stalk. Parts of the inferior vermiform process. On the inferior vermiform process there are seen, from behind forwards—first a small eminence, comprising seven or eight narrow transverse lamina? which unite the posterior inferior and slender lobes of the two sides, and named tuber valvule; next a larger, tongue-shaped projection,, which serves as a commissure to the biventral lobes, and is called the pyramid ; and then a narrow elongated part—the uvula, at the anterior extremity of which is the rounded prominence of the nodule. The uvula is connected to the amygdaloid lobe on each side by a grey strip named the furrowed, band, and the nodule to the flocculus by a thin white lamina—the inferior medullary velum, but to see these parts the following dissection must be made. Dissection. The biventral and slender lobes are to be sliced off on the left side, so that the amygdaloid lobe may be everted from the valley (fig. 69). By this proceeding the stalk of the flocculus is exposed, and is seen to be continued into the thin and soft white layer of the inferior medullary velum (6), which joins the nodule internally : beneath the velum a bit of paper may be inserted. The furrowed band (d) is also exposed on the side of the uvula. The inferior medullary velum is a thin white layer which forms a commissure to the flocculi, and is connected to the upper surface of the nodule in the middle. Its exposed part on each side, between the flocculus and the nodule, is semilunar in shape, and the anterior edge is free; but behind, it is continued into the medullary centre of the cerebellum. The furrowed band (d) is a narrow ridge of grey matter, notched on the surface, which passes from the side of the uvula to the con-