BRANCHES OP CERVICAL PLEXUS. 57 tributed between the ear and the great occipital nerve (p. 8). Occasionally there is a second cutaneous nerve to the back of the head. The great auricular nerve (fig. 2, l) is derived from the second auri" and third cervical nerves. Perforating the deep fascia at the pos- terior border of the sterno-mastoid muscle, the nerve is directed upwards beneath the platysma towards the lobule of the ear, and ends in the following branches :— The facial branches are sent forwards to the integuments over the supplies . facial parotid, and a few slender filaments pass into the gland to join the ' facial nerve. The auricular branches ascend to the external ear, and are chiefly auricular, distributed on its cranial aspect, but one or more reach the lower part of the outer surface. On the ear they communicate with branches furnished from the facial and pneumo-gastric nerves. The mastoid branch is directed backwards to the skin over the ancl mastoid mastoid process, where it joins the posterior auricular branch of the facial nerve (p. 36). The superficial cervical nerve (fig. 2, 14) arises from the cervical Superficial plexus in common with the preceding, ancl turns forwards round nerref1 the sterno-mastoid muscle about the middle. Afterwards it pierces the fascia, and ramifies over the anterior triangular space (seep: 59). There may be more than one branch to represent this nerve. The descending set of branches (fig. 2) are derived from the Nerves that third and fourth nerves of the plexus, and are directed towards the escen aie clavicle over the lower part of the triangular space. Their number is somewhat uncertain, but usually there are about three near the clavicle. The most internal branch (sternal) crosses the clavicle near its supraclavi- inner end ; the middle branch (clavicular) lies about the middle of cular" that bone ; and the external (acromial) turns over the clavicular attachment of the trapezius to the acromion. All are distributed to the skin of the chest and shoulder. Derived from the descending set are one or two posterior cutaneous Posterior nerves of the neck, which ramify in the integument covering the cutaneous trapezius above the scapula. The lymphatic glands lying along the sterno-mastoid (glandulae Lymphatic concatenate) are some of the deep cervical glands, and are continuous neaCkds of through the lower part of the posterior triangular space with the glands of the axilla. A chain of superficial cervical glands accom- panies the external jugular vein ; and close to the skull, over the apex of the posterior triangular space, are one or two Small sub- occipital glands; while farther forwards, resting on the insertion of the sterno-mastoid, there are two or three small mastoid glands. Directions. The dissection of the posterior triangle should be re- Directions, peated on the left side of the neck, in order that the difference in the vessels may be observed. Afterwards, the reflected parts are to be replaced and carefully fastened in their natural position with a few stitches, preservative fluid or salt having been previously applied. - The body is now to be turned for the examination of the back ; The back to