DISSECTION OF THE LEG. 704 Astragalus with os calcis by posterior, ligament extend, which will be denned by removing the areolar tissue from the intervals between them (fig. 219). It will be more advantageous for the student to clean all the ligaments before he proceeds to learn any, than to prepare only the bands of one articulation at a time. Articulation op the astragalus and os calcis. These bones form two joints, and are kept together by a strong interosseous liga ment; there are also thin bands at the outer side and behind. The 'posterior ligament (fig. 219, a) consists of a few fibres between the bones, where they are grooved by the tendon of the flexor Fig. 219.* external, hallucis; and the external ligament (b) is connected to the sides of the astragalus and os calcis, near the middle piece of the external lateral ligament of the ankle-joint, andinteros- The interosseous ligament (fig. 219, c) consists of strong vertical mentshSa" an^ oblique fibres, which are attached above and below to the depressions on the contiguous surfaces of the two bones. This band extends across the bones, and its depth is greatest at the outer side. Articular In a subsequent stage of the dissection (p. 707) the articular surfaces; surfaces 0f the bones will be seen, viz., one behind the interosseous cavities1 ligament, and one in front of it, with two synovial cavities. Movement Movements. It is between the astragalus and os calcis that the between as- important movements of the foot known as inversion and eversion o^faicischiefly take place. The motion is one of rotation about an oblique axis of axis, which is directed from the upper and inner part of the head of the astragalus, backwards, downwards, and outwards to the lower and outer part of the posterior extremity of the os calcis. Sup- posing the astragalus fixed between the malleoli, and the rest of the motion. * View of the dorsal ligaments of the tarsus, a. Posterior, b, external, and c, interosseous ligaments between astragalus and os calcis. d. Astragalo- navicular. e. External calcaneonavicular. /. Internal, and g, upper calcaneo- cuboid ligaments, h. Dorsal naviculo cuboid band, i, k, I. Dorsal external, middle, and internal naviculo-cuneiform longitudinal bands, n. Dorsal trans- verse bands between the cuneiform and cuboid bones.