294 DISSECTION OF FRONT OF FOREARM. Long flexor of thumb: insertion. Parts above it. Use Pronator quadratus is deep in position. secondly, the last phalangeal joint; and thirdly, the metacarpo- phalangeal. The flexor longus pollicis (fig. 85, b) arises from the anterior surface of the radius, as low as the pronator quadratus, and from the outer part of the interosseous membrane; it is also joined in most cases by a distinct slip arising in common with the flexor sublimis digitorum either from the internal condyle of the humerus or the coronoid process of the ulna. The fleshy fibres descend to a tendon, which is continued beneath the annular ligament, and is inserted into the last phalanx of the thumb. The greater part of the muscle is covered by the flexor sublimis digitorum ; and the radial vessels rest on it for a short distance and beneath below. It lies on the radius and the pronator quadratus. To the inner side is the flexor profundus digitorum. Action. This muscle is the special flexor of the last joint of the thumb, but it also aids in bending the other joints of that digit and the wrist. The pronator quadratus (fig. 85, d) is a flat muscle, covering the lower fourth of the bones of the forearm. It arises from the anterior surface of the ulna, where it is somewhat widened, and is inserted into the fore and inner parts of the radius for about two inches. The anterior surface is covered by the tendons of the flexor muscles of the digits, and by the radial vessels ; and the posterior surface rests on the radius and ulna with the intervening membrane, and on the interosseous vessels and nerve. Along its lower border is the arch formed by the anterior carpal arteries. Action. The end of the radius is moved inwards over the ulna by this muscle, and the hand is pronated. The anterior interosseous artery (fig. 85, e) is continued on the front of the interosseous membrane, between the two flexors or in the fibres of the flexor profundus digitorum, till it reaches an aperture in the membrane beneath the pronator quadratus. At that spot the artery turns from the front to the back of the limb, and descends to the back of the carpus, where it ends by anastomosing with the posterior interosseous and carpal arteries. Branches. Numerous offsets are given to the deep muscles. One long branch, median (/), accompanies the median nerve, which it supplies, and either ends in the flexor sublimis, or is con- tinued beneath the annular ligament to the palmar arch. Above the middle of the forearm the medullary arteries of the radius and ulna ari^e from the vessel. Where it is about to pass through the interosseous membrane it furnishes twigs to the pronator quadratus ; and one branch is continued beneath that muscle to anastomose with the anterior carpal arteries. The anterior interosseous nerve (fig. 85,2) is derived from the interosseous median, and accompanies the artery of the same name to the pro- nerve tncls in pronator, nator quadratus muscle, the under surface of which it enters. Branches are given by it to the deep flexor muscles. Use. Anterior in terosseous artery. Branches muscular, median, medullary to the bone? and carpal. Anterior