DISSECTION OF THE ARM. 280 Relations of the muscle. Use. Two inter- muscular an inner and an outer. Dissection of vessels and nerve. The triceps is superficial, except at the upper part where it is overlapped by the deltoid muscle. It lies on the humerus, and conceals the musculo-spiral nerve, the superior profunda vessels, and the articulation of the elbow. On the sides the muscle is united to the intermuscular septa ; and the lower fibres are con- tinuous externally with the anconeus—a muscle of the forearm. Action. All the pieces of the triceps combining in their action will bring the ulna into a line Fig- 83.* with the humerus, and extend the elbow-joint. As the long head passes the shoulder, it can depress the raised humerus, and adduct the bone to the thorax. The intermuscular septa are fibrous processes continuous with the investing aponeurosis of the arm, which are fixed to the ridges leading to the condyles of the humerus : they intervene between the muscles on the front and back of the limb, and give attachment to the fleshy fibres. The internal is the stronger,, and reaches as high as the cora- co-brachialis muscle, from which it receives some tendinous fibres. The brachialis anticus is attached to it in front, and the triceps behind ; and the ulnar nerve, and the inferior profunda and anas- tomotic vessels pierce it. The external septum is thinner,, and ceases at the deltoid muscle. Behind it is the triceps ; and in front are the brachialis anticus, and the muscles of the forearm (supinator longus and extensor carpi radialis longior) arising above the condyle of the humerus : it is pierced by the musculo-spiral nerve and the accompanying vessels. Dissection. To follow the superior profunda vessels and the mus- culo-spiral nerve, the middle head of the triceps should be cut across * Dissection of the dorsal scapular vessels and nerve, and of the triceps muscle. Muscles: A. Long head of triceps, b. Outer head, with a bit of whalebone beneath it to mark the extent of its attachment down the humerus. 0. Inner head. d. Anconeus. E. Supinator longus. f. Extensor carpi radialis longior. G. Teres major. H. Teres minor, i. Infraspinatus, cut across. J. Supraspinatus, cut through. Arteries: a. Suprascapular. b. Dorsal scapular, c. Posterior circumflex. Nerves: 1. Suprascapular. 2. Circumflex.