DISSECTION OF THE UPPER LIMB. 254 Subscapular has a dorsal branch, which gives infra- scapular. Anterior and posterior circumflex. Muscular. Axillary vein: extent and relations; branches. Dissection of brachial plexus. Nerves entering brachial plexus. Its situation and rela- tions. The nerves form three cords around the artery, The subscapular branch (fig. 73, c) courses with a nerve of the same name along the subscapularis, as far as the lower angle of the scapula, where it ends in branches for the serratus magnus, and the latissimus dorsi and teres muscles : it gives many offsets to the glands of the space. Near its origin the artery sends backwards a considerable dorsal branch round the edge of the subscapular muscle : this gives an infrascapular offset to the ventral aspect of the scapula, and then turns to the dorsum of that bone, where it will be afterwards dis- sected (p. 269). The subscapular artery is frequently combined at its origin with other branches of the axillary, or with branches of the brachial artery. The circumflex branches wind round the humerus below the sub- scapular muscle. The anterior is small, and passes outwards beneath the coraco-brachialis and biceps. The posterior is much larger, and disappears with the companion nerve between the subscapularis and teres major muscles. They will be followed in the dissection of the shoulder (p. 264). Small muscular offsets enter the coraco-brachialis muscle. The axillary vein (#) continues upwards the basilic vein of the arm, and has the same extent as the axillary artery. It lies to the thoracic side of its artery, and receives corresponding thoracic and shoulder branches. Opposite the subscapular muscle it is joined externally by a large vein, which is formed by the union of the vena? comites of the brachial artery; and near the clavicle the cephalic vein opens into it. Dissection. To follow out the branches of the brachial plexus, cut through the pectoralis minor near its insertion into the coracoid }3rocess, and turn it towards the chest, but without injuring the thoracic nerves. The axillary vessels are next to be divided below the second rib,* and to be drawn down with hooks; and their thoracic branches may be removed at the same time. A dense fascia is to be cleared away from the large nerves of the plexus. The brachial plexus (fig. 74) results from the interlacement of the anterior branches of the lower four cervical nerves and the larger part of the first dorsal; and a slip is added to it above from the lowest nerve in the cervical plexus. It is placed successively in the neck and the axilla, and ends opposite the coracoid process in the nerves of the limb. The part of the plexus above the clavicle is described in the dissection of the head and neck (p. 71). The part below the clavicle has the same relations to surrounding muscles as the axillary artery; and in it the nerve-trunks are disposed as follows :— As the plexus enters the axilla it consists of three cords, inner, outer, and posterior, which lie together in a bundle on the outer side of the artery. Beneath the pectoralis minor the three cords embrace * The student must be careful not to cut the vessels higher than the spot mentioned, otherwise he will injure the dissection of the neck.