653 BRANCHES OF PROFUNDA ARTERY. down; and the branches of arteries and nerves they receive are to be dissected out with care. All the parts are to be cleaned. Adductor magnus muscle (fig. 199, c). At its posterior aspect Posterior the large adductor is altogether fleshy, even at the opening for the adductor^ femoral artery ; and the fibres from the pubic arch appear to form magnus. a part almost distinct from those connected with the tuberosity of the ischium. In contact with this surface are the hamstring muscles and the great sciatic nerve. Ending of the perforating arteries (fig. 199, c, d, e). These Perforating branches of the profunda appear through the adductor magnus close arteries : to the femur, and are directed out through the short head of the course biceps and the outer intermuscular septum to the vastus externus and crureus muscles ; but as the first branch is placed higher than the attachment of the biceps, it pierces the gluteus maximus in its course. In the extensor muscles they anastomose together, and and ending; with the transverse and descending branches of the external circum- flex artery. Muscular branches are furnished by the perforating arteries to offsets to the heads of the biceps ; and a cutaneous offset is given by each ]^e^nd to the integuments of the outer side of the thigh, along the line of the outer intermuscular septum. Anastomotic branches of the profunda (fig. 199,/) pierce Anastomotic the adductor magnus internal to the preceding, and at some distance branches: from the femur (p. 628). Three or four in number, the highest number and appears about five inches from the pelvis, and the rest in a line at course- intervals of about two inches from one another : they are distributed to the hamstring muscles, especially the semimembranosus, and communicate below with offsets of the popliteal trunk. The Hip-Joint. This articulation is a ball and socket joint, the Hip-joint, head of the femur being received into the acetabulum of the hip-howformed; bone. Connecting the bones are the following ligaments ;—one to ^s ]jga_ deepen the receiving cavity, which is named cotyloid; another ments. between the articular surfaces of the bones—the interarticular; and a capsule around all. Dissection. The muscles are to be taken away from the back of Lay bare the hip-joint, and the areolar tissue is to be removed from the upper ^jj\^aPsule and lower attachments of the capsular ligament. Next, the front of the joint should be cleaned with the body and in front, turned over for a short time, if this change in position does not interfere with the other dissections. In the capsule itself the student has to define a wide thick part define its in front, and a transverse band near the neck of the femur behind. nbres- The capsular ligament (fig. 200) is a thick fibrous case, which capsule: encloses the head and the greater part of the neck of the femur. Its upper margin is attached to the circumference of the acetabulum attacb- close to the edge, as well as to a transverse ligamentous band over ments above the notch at the lower part'of the cavity. Its lower margin is ana below; inserted in front into the anterior intertrochanteric line (fig. 200) ; behind, by a very thin piece, into the neck of the femur about a finger's breadth from the small trochanter and the posterior inter-