570 DISSECTION OF THE PELVIS. Middle continuous with pro- state. Submucous layer: fibres; addition to it. Strata joined. Fibrous coat. Open the bladder. Mucous coat The circular fibres (fig. 176,2) are thin and scattered on the body of the bladder ; but around the cervix they are collected into a thick bundle, the sphincter vesicae, and are continuous below with the fibres of the prostate. When these fibres are hypertrophied, they project into the interior of the organ, forming the fasciculated bladder ; and in some bodies the mucous coat may be forced out- wards here and there between them, in the form of sacs, producing the sacculated bladder. The submucous stratum (fig. 176,3) forms a continuous layer over the lower half of the bladder, but its fibres are scattered above. In the lower third of the viscus the fibres are lon- gitudinal, and are continued around the urethra; but they become oblique above that point. At the back of the bladder the layer is increased in strength by the longitudinal fibres of the ureters blending with it. The muscular strata com- municate freely, so that one cannot be separated from an- other without division of the connecting bundles of fibres. In both sexes the disposition of the fibres is similar (Roy. Med. Chir. Trans., 1856). Fibrous or submucous coat. A fibrous layer is placed between the muscular and mucous strata, and is enumerated as one of the coats of the bladder; it is composed, as in other hollow viscera, of areolar and elastic tissues, in which the vessels and nerves ramify. Dissection. The bladder is now to be opened by an incision along the pubic surface ; and the cut is to be continued down the front of the prostate gland. The mucous membrane of the bladder is of a pale rose colour, in the healthy state soon after death. It is continuous above with the lining of the ureters, and below with that of the urethra. It is very * Muscular fibres of the bladder, prostate, and urethra. 1. External or longitudinal fibres of the bladder. 2. Circular fibres of the middle coat. 3. Submucous layer. 4. Muscular layer around the urethra. 5. Circular fibrts of the prostate and urethra continuous with the circular of the bladder. 6, 7. Septum of the corpus spongiosum. 8. Corpus spongiosum. 9. Corpus caver - nosum. 10. Ureter.