DEEP MUSCLES OF BACK. 665 parts around it Use with tibia free ; tibia above the oblique line on the posterior surface, as well as into into tibia; the aponeurosis covering them. The muscle rests on the tibia, and is covered by a fascia derived in great part from the tendon of the semimembranosus muscle: on it lie the popliteal vessels and nerve, and the gastrocnemius and plantaris. Along the upper border are the lower articu- lar vessels and nerve of the inner side of the knee; and the lower border corresponds with the attachment of the soleus on the tibia. The tendon of origin wil] be seen in the dissection of the ligaments of the knee-joint. Action. The leg being free, the muscle bends the knee-joint, and then rotates inwards the tibia. The po- pliteus is used especially in beginning the act of flexing the knee, as it pro- duces the rotation inwards of the tibia (or outwards of the femur) without which that movement cannot take place. The FLEXOR LONGUS HALLUCIS (flex. long, pollicis pedis ; fig. 205, f) arises below the soleus from the lower two- thirds of the posterior surface of the fibula ; from the intermuscular septum between it and the peronei muscles ; and from the aponeurosis over the tibialis. Inferiorly the tendon of the muscle enters a groove in the astra- galus, and crosses the sole of the foot to its insertion into the great toe. Above, the muscle is covered by the soleus ; but below, it is super- ficial, and is in contact with the fascia. It lies on the fibula and lower end of the tibia, and conceals the peroneal vessels. Along the inner side are the posterior tibial nerve and vessels ; and contiguous to the outer margin, but separated by fascia, are the peronei muscles. relations: * Deep dissection of the back of the leg (Illustrations of Dissections). Muscles: A. Popliteus. b. Outer, and c, inner part of soleus, cut. D. Tibialis posticus. E. Flexor digitorum. F. Flexor hallucis. G. Peroneus longus. h. Peroneus brevis. i. Tendo Achillis. Arteries: a. Popliteal. 6. Inferior internal, and c, inferior external articular, d. Anterior tibial. e. Posterior tibial, and /, a communicating branch to peroneal, g. Peroneal. h. Continuation of peroneal to outer side of the foot. Nerves: 1. Internal popliteal. 2. Muscular branch of posterior tibial. 3. Posterior tibial. 4. Cutaneous plantar.