476 DISSECTION OF THE ABDOMEN Chief folds of the peritoneum. Gastric folds: Gastro- hepatic omentum attach- ments : contents. Gastro-colic omentum : formation ; cavity ; fusion of layers. Cavity of small bag : boundaries over the left kidney and the diaphragm to the inferior vena cava, where it forms the posterior boundary of the foramen of Winslow. Here becoming large bag again, it can be followed over the right kidney to the liver, and round the latter to the falciform ligament. On the right side of the falciform ligament the peritoneum simply passes over the liver and diaphragm. Special parts of the peritoneum. After tracing the continuity of the serous sac over the wall and the viscera, the dissector is to study the chief processes or folds of the membrane in connection with the alimentary tube and its appendages. The pieces of peri- toneum in connection with the viscera of the pelvis will be seen in the dissection of that cavity. Folds connected with the stomach. The processes uniting the stomach to other viscera are named omenta, and are three in number, viz.— the small or gastro-hepatic omentum, the large or gastro-colic omen- tum, and the gastro-splenic omentum. The small omentum (figs. 145 and 146, s om) stretches between the liver and stomach, and ends towards the right in a free border, behind which the foramen of Winslow leads into the cavity of the small bag. It is attached above to the liver along the transverse fissure and the posterior half of the longitudinal fissure (fig. 158, so) ; below to the small curvature of the stomach and the first part of the duodenum. At its left or posterior end it is fixed to the diaphragm for a short distance, between the liver and the termina- tion of the oesophagus. The part between the longitudinal fissure of the liver and the small curvature is very thin, and can be sepa- rated into two layers only in the immediate neighbourhood of the viscera; but that extending from the transverse fissure to the duodenum is much thicker, and encloses the hepatic artery, portal vein, common bile-duct, and nerves and lymphatics of the liver. The great omentum (fig. 145, g om) is the largest fold of the peri- toneum, and results from the meeting of two layers which leave the great curvature of the stomach, and the first part of the duodenum. The sheet thus formed descends in front of the intestine, extending farther on the left side than the right, and at the lower part of the abdomen is doubled backwards to join the transverse colon. The fold therefore encloses the lower part of a space (cavity of the small bag), which originally extended to its lower border; but in the adult the anterior and posterior portions of the omentum are usually closely adherent, and the cavity seldom exists below the transverse colon. Between the layers of the great omentum, especially near the stomach, are some branches of vessels, minute nerves, and a variable quantity of fat; but over the greater part of their extent the layers- are inseparably united, and the resulting membrane is very thin, and in places cribriform. Cavity of the small bag or sac of the omentum. By dividing the fore part of the great omentum near the stomach, this cavity will be opened, and the hand may be introduced to ascertain its extent. In front it is bounded by the anterior part of the great omentum, the stomach, the small omentum, and the Spigelian lobe of the liver.