THE CHEEK AND LIPS. 133 Over the whole cavity, but especially on the lips and tongue, are Papilla, papillae for the purpose of touch. The cheek extends from the commissure of the lips to the ramus Cheek; of the lower jaw, and is attached above and below to the alveolar extent, process of the jaw on the outer aspect. The chief constituent of the and struc- cheek is the fleshy buccinator muscle : on the inner surface of this is ture' the mucous membrane ; and on the outer the integuments, with some muscles, vessels, and nerves. The parotid duct perforates the cheek obliquely near the second molar tooth of the upper jaw. The lips surround the opening of the mouth; they are formed Lips, mainly by the orbicularis oris muscle, covered externally by integu- formed by ment, and internally by mucous membrane. The lower lip is the orblcularls» larger and more moveable of the two. Between the muscular structure and the mucous covering lie the labial glands ; and in the substance of each lip, internal to the muscular structure, and at the line of junction of the two portions of the orbicularis, is placed the contain arch of the coronary arteries. arteries. Teeth. In the adult there are sixteen teeth in each jaw, which Teeth, are set in the alveolar borders in the form of an arch, and are sur- aSSement rounded by the gums. Each dental arch has its convexity turned in jaw. forwards; and, commonly, the arch in the maxilla overhangs that in the mandible when the jaws are in contact. The teeth are similar in the half of each jaw, and have received the following names :—the most anterior two are incisors, and the one next behind is the canine tooth; two, still farther back, are the bicuspids ; and the last three are molar teeth. For details as to the form and structure of the teeth reference must be made to a work on syste- matic or general anatomy. Section XIII. DISSECTION OF THE NOSE. To obtain a view of the interior of the nose, it will be necessary Directions, to make a vertical longitudinal section through the nasal cavity. While the student is examining the boundaries of the nose he will derive advantage from the use of a vertical section of a macerated skull. Dissection. Before sawing the bone, the loose part of the lower Dissection, jaw on the right side should be taken away, and the tongue, hyoid bone, and larynx, all united, are to be detached from the opposite half of the lower jaw, and laid aside till the dissector is ready to use them. On the right side of the middle line saw carefully through the Cut through frontal and nasal bones, the cribriform plate of the ethmoid, and ^^saw. the body of the sphenoid bone, without letting the saw descend into the nasal cavity.