114 DISSECTION OE DEEP VESSELS AND NERVES OF NECK. and in jugular foramen ; and with some in the skull. Branches. ascends to the jugular foramen, and divides into two filaments which join the petrous ganglion of the glosso-pharyngeal and the root- ganglion of the vagus. Communications are formed with several other cranial nerves by means of the ascending offset from the ganglion into the carotid canal (p. 19). Branches for distribution. The branches of this set are more numerous than the preceding, and the nerves are generally of larger To internal carotid, which join cranial to external carotid, forming plexuses and ganglia to pharyn- geal plexus to cardiac plexuses ; superficial cardiac nerve. Middle ganglion joined to spinal nerves loop to lower ganglion; The ascending branch, prolonged from the upper part of the ganglion, accompanies the internal carotid artery and its branches. Near the skull it divides into two pieces which enter the canal for the carotid, one on each side of that vessel, and are continued to the eyeball and the pia mater of the brain, forming secondary plexuses on the ophthalmic and cerebral arteries. In the carotid canal communications are formed with the tympanic nerve (p. 108), and with the spheno-palatine ganglion (p. 142) ; with the former near the lower end, and with the latter near the upper opening of the canal. The communications and plexuses which these nerves form in their course to the brain are described at p. 19. Branches for blood-vessels (nervi molles). These nerves surround the external carotid trunk, and ramify on its branches so as to form plexuses on the arteries with the same names as the vessels : some small ganglia are occasionally found on these slender nerves. By means of the plexus on the facial artery the submaxillary ganglion com- municates with the sympathetic; and through the plexus on the internal maxillary artery the otic ganglion obtains a similar communication. The pharyngeal nerves pass inwards to the side of the pharynx, where they join with the branches of the glossopharyngeal and pneumo-gastric nerves in the pharyngeal plexus (p. 110). Cardiac nerves enter the thorax to join in the plexuses of the heart. There are three cardiac nerves on each side, viz., superior, middle, and inferior, each taking its name from the ganglion of which it is an offset. The superior or superficial cardiac nerve of the right side courses behind the sheath of the carotid vessels, and enters the thorax along the innominate artery. In the neck the nerve is connected with the cardiac branch of the vagus, with the external laryngeal, and with the recurrent nerve. In some bodies it ends by joining one of the other cardiac nerves. The middle cervical or thyroid ganglion is of small size, and is situate beneath the great vessels, usually opposite the sixth cervical vertebra, on or near the inferior thyroid artery. Its branches are the following :— Connecting branches with the spinal nerves sink between the borders of the longus colli and anterior scalenus, to join the fifth and sixth cervical nerves. A considerable branch passes between the middle and inferior cervical ganglia, forming a loop (ansa Vieussenii) over the front of the subclavian artery, and supplying it with filaments.