461 UMBILICAL HERNIA. the inner side. Its nature can be ascertained with certainty only after death. Seat of stricture. The constriction of the intestine will take place Stricture at from similar causes, and at the same spots as in the external as external, hernia. Division of the stricture. From an inability to decide always in Division of the living body whether a small hernia is internal or external, the stncture- rule observed in dividing the stricture of the neck of the sac is, to cut down upon the mid-part of the tumour ; and if it is necessary to open the peritoneum, to cut directly upwards, as in the other kinds of inguinal hernia. Umbilical Hernia, or exomphalos, is a protrusion of the intestine Umbilical through or by the side of the umbilicus. It is very variable in ierma \ size, and its course is straight through the abdominal wall. Coverings. The coverings of the intestine are—the skin and super- coverings ficial fascia, a prolongation from the tendinous margin of the aperture in the linea alba, together with coverings of the transversalis fascia, the subperitoneal fat, and the peritoneum. Over the end of the kecome tumour the superficial fascia blends with the other contiguous struc- united over x i -x c x the tumour, tures, and its rat disappears. If the hernia is suddenly produced, it may want the investment changes in ; otherwise derived from the edge of the umbilicus. Seat of stricture. The stricture on the intestine is generally at the stricture, margin of the tendinous opening in the abdominal wall; and it may found, be either outside, or in the neck of the sac, as in the other kinds of hernia. It should be remembered that the narrowed neck is at the upper end and not in the centre of the swelling. Division of the stricture. The constriction may be removed by cutting externally the parts around the neck. Or if the sac is to be opened, the knife may be carried upwards in cutting the stricture ; but there is not any vessel liable to injury in the operation. Other Forms op Hernia. At each of the other apertures in the other parietes of the abdomen, a piece of intestine may be protruded, so hertu^are as to form a hernia. For instance there may be femoral hernia below femoral, Poupart's ligament, with the femoral vessels ; obturator hernia obturator, through the thyroid foramen, with the artery of the same name ; ischiatic. and ischiatic hernia through the ischiatic notch. The femoral hernia, as the most important, will be noticed pre- sently ; but the student may refer to some special treatise for information respecting the other abdominal hernias. Dissection. The abdomen is now to be opened to see the cords and D3is0see^ion depressions on the posterior surface of the wall. A transverse cut abdomen, may be made through the umbilicus across the front of the abdo- men ; and on holding up the lower half of the wall, three prominent fibrous cords, the urachus and the obliterated hypogastric arteries, will be seen ascending to the umbilicus from the pelvis. Cords of the abdominal wall. In the middle line is the urachus, One median which reaches from the summit of the bladder to the umbilicus ; on cord each side is the obliterated hypogastric artery, extending from the g£feon each side of the pelvis to the umbilicus ; and a little external to the last,