DISSECTION OF THE SUBMAXILLARY REGION. 94 fasten tongue, and cut mucous membrane. Define ner vessels, and sublingual Parts be- neath mylo- hyoid ; above hyoid bone, in front of hyo-glossus. The apex of the tongue is to be now pulled well out of the mouth over the upper teeth, and fastened with a stitch to the septum of the nose, while the left half of the jaw is to be drawn down forcibly with hooks. The scalpel should be then passed from below upwards between the sawn surfaces of the bone, for the purpose of dividing a strong band of the mucous membrane of the mouth ; and it should be carried onwards along the middle line of the tongue to the tip. By means of a stitch the hyoid bone may be fastened down, to make tight the muscular fibres. All the fat and areolar tissue are to be removed, and in doing this the student is to take care of the Whartonian duct, of the hypoglossal nerve and its branches, which lie on the hyo-glossus muscle, and especially of its small offset ascending to the stylo-glossus muscle; also of the lingual nerve nearer the jaw. Between the lingual nerve and the deep part of the submaxillary gland the dissector should seek the small submaxillary ganglion with its offsets; and he should endeavour to separate from the trunk of the lingual the small chorda tympani nerve (p. 92), and to define the offset from it to the submaxillary ganglion. At the hinder border of the hyo-glossus clean the lingual vessels, the stylo-hyoid ligament, and the glosso-pharyngeal nerve, all passing beneath that muscle ; and at the anterior border find the issuing ranine artery, which, with the companion vein and lingual nerve, is to be traced on the under surface of the tongue to the tip. Adhering to the mucous membrane of the mouth is the sublingual gland, and this is to be defined, together with the sublingual artery which supplies it. Paris beneath the mylo-hyoicl (fig. 24). The relative position of the objects covered by the mylo-hyoid is now apparent:—Extending from the hyoid bone to the side of the tongue is the hyo-glossus muscle, the fibres of which are crossed superiorly by those of the stylo- glossus. On the hyo-glossus are placed, from below upwards, the hypoglossal nerve, Wharton's duct, and the lingual nerve, the latter crossing the duct; and near the anterior border of the muscle the two nerves are united by branches. Beneath the same muscle lie, from below upwards, the lingual artery, the stylo-hyoid ligament, and the glosso-pharyngeal nerve. Above the hyo-glossus is the mucous membrane of the mouth, with the sublingual gland attached to it in front, and some fibres of the superior constrictor muscle covering it behind near the jaw. Between the chin and the hyoid bone, close to the middle line, is situate the genio-hyoid muscle; above this is a larger fan-shaped muscle, the genio-glossus. Along the outer side of the last muscle lie the ranine vessels ; and a sublingual branch for the gland of the same name springs from the lingual artery at the anterior border of the hyo-glossus. On the under surface of the tongue, near the margin, lies the lingual nerve ; and the hypoglossal nerve enters the fibres of the genio-glossus.