43 THIRD AND NASAL NERVES. forwards to the inner angle, and backwards to the posterior part of the orbit. By taking away the fat between the optic nerve and the external Find len- rectus, at the back of the orbit, the student will find easily fi ganglion, nerves (ciliary) with small arteries lying along the side of the optic nerve ; and by tracing these ciliary nerves backwards, he will be guided to the small lenticular ganglion (the size of a pin's head). The dissector should find then two branches from the nasal and and roots. third nerves to the ganglion : the nasal branch is slender, and enters the ganglion behind; while that of the third nerve, short and thick, joins the lower part. The eyeball is to be fully exposed by dissecting off its investing clean fascia (capsule of Tenon), which will be seen to send processes eyeba11- around the several muscles inserted into the sclerotic. Lastly, the student should separate from one another the nasal, Separate third, and sixth nerves, as they pass between the heads of the nerves- external rectus muscle into the orbit. The third nerve is placed highest in the wall of the cavernous Third nerve sinus (fig. 4, 3) ; but at the sphenoidal fissure it descends below the fourth, and the two superficial branches (frontal and lachry- mal) of the ophthalmic nerve. It comes into the orbit between as it enters the heads of the outer rectus, having previously divided into two ort>it' parts. The upper division (fig. 11, 8) is the smaller, and ends in its upper the under surface of the levator palpebrse and superior rectus branch> muscles. The lower division supplies three other muscles, and will be lower dissected afterwards (p. 47). branch' The NASAL BRANCH OF THE OPHTHALMIC NERVE (fig. 11, l) Nasal nerve. enters the orbit between the heads of the external rectus, lying between the two parts of the third nerve, and is then directed obliquely inwards to reach the anterior of the two internal orbital canals. Passing through this aperture with the anterior ethmoidal General (nasal) artery, the nerve appears in the cranium at the outer margin the face.° of the cribriform plate of the ethmoid bone. Finally, it enters the nasal cavity by an aperture at the front of the cribriform plate; and after passing behind the nasal bone, it issues between that bone and the cartilage, to end on the outer side of the nose. In the orbit the nasal crosses over the optic nerve, but beneath In the orbit, the superior rectus and levator palpebree muscles, and lies afterwards below the superior oblique ; in this part of its course it furnishes the following branches :— The branch to the lenticular ganglion (5) is about half an inch long Branches, and very slender, and arises as soon as the nerve comes into the ^fc^°* of orbit : this is the long root of the lenticular ganglion. ganglion. Long ciliary nerves. As the nasal crosses the optic nerve, it Long ciliary supplies two or more ciliary branches (fig. 11) to the eyeball. branches- These lie on the inner side of the optic nerve, and join the ciliary branches of the lenticular ganglion. The infratrochlear branch (2) arises as the nasal nerve is about infratroch- x ' lear branch.