DISSECTION OF THE ABDOMEN. and adheres closely to the fibrous coat. At certain spots intervals exist between the two, viz., in the fissures occupied by vessels, along the line of attachment of the ligaments, and at the surface touching the gall-bladder. The fibrous covering is very thin, but it is rather stronger where the peritoneum is not in contact with it. It invests the liver, and is continuous at the transverse fissure with the fibrous sheath (capsule of Glisson) surrounding the vessels in the interior. When the membrane is torn from the surface, it will be found connected with fine shreds entering into the liver. Size and form of the lobules. The lobules (fig. 160, 1) constitute the proper secreting substance, and can be seen either on the exterior of the liver, on a cut surface, or by means of a rent in the mass. As thus observed, these bodies are about the size of a pin's head, and measure from -^th. to y^th of an inch in diameter. Closely massed together, they possess a dark central point ; and there are indications of lines of separation between them, though they are to some extent united together. By means of transverse and vertical sections of the lobules, their form will appear flattened on the exterior, but many-sided in the interior of the liver. They are clustered around the smallest divisions of the hepatic vein, to which each is connected by a small twig issuing from the centre, something like the union of the stalk with the body of a small fruit. Vessels of the liver. Two sets of blood-vessels ramify in the liver :—One enters the transverse fissure, and the branches are directed transversely in spaces (portal canals) where they are enveloped by areolar tissue. The other set (hepatic veins) run from the anterior to the posterior border of the liver without a sheath. The ramifications of these different vessels are to be followed in the liver. The capsule of Glisson is a layer of areolar tissue, which envelops the vessels and the ducts in the transverse fissure, and is continued on their branches in the portal canals. In this sheath the vessels ramify, and become minutely divided before their termination in the lobules. If a transverse section is made of a portal canal, the vessels will retract somewhat into the loose surrounding tissue. The portal vein ramifies in the liver like an artery ; and the blood circulates through it in the same manner, viz., from trunk to branches. After entering the transverse fissure the vein divides into large branches ; these lie in the portal canals or spaces, with offsets of the hepatic artery, the hepatic duct, and the nerves and lymphatics (fig. 160, p). The division is repeated again and again, until the last branches of the vein (interlobular) penetrate between the lobules, where they communicate together, and supply the hepatic substance. In the portal canals the offsets of the vena portse are joined by small vaginal and capsular veins, which convey blood from brandies of the hepatic artery. The hepatic artery (fig. 160, c), while surrounded by the capsule,