645 ANATOMY OF THE HAM. of the thigh. When this space has been learnt, the student will return to the dissection of the thigh. Position. The limb should be raised into the horizontal position. Position. Dissection (fig. 198). To remove the skin from the popliteal Take the region, let a longitudinal incision be made behind the knee for the Jverth™ distance of six inches above, and four inches below the joint. At each ham. extremity of this cut make a transverse incision, and raise the skin in two flaps, the one being turned outwards and the other inwards. In the fat are some small cutaneous nerves, viz., one or two twigs Seek the in the middle line of the limb from the small sciatic nerve beneath nerves°US the fascia ; and some offsets of the internal cutaneous nerve towards the inner side. After the subcutaneous fat is removed, the special fascia of the limb will be brought into view. Fascia lata. Where this fascia covers the popliteal space it is Fascia of strengthened by transverse fibres, particularly on the outer side; over'the and it is connected laterally with the tendons bounding that ham- interval. The short saphenous vein perforates it opposite the knee, or a little lower down. Dissection (fig. 198). The fascia over the ham is now to be RemoTe removed without injuring the small sciatic nerve and accompanying fascia> artery, and the short saphenous vein, which are close beneath it. A and take the large quantity of fat may be next taken out of the space, but without h^rom the injury to the several small vessels and nerves in it. In cleaning the space the student will come upon the large inter- Seek the nal popliteal nerve in the middle, and the external popliteal on the ^he^pace. outer side. Both nerves give branches ; and the numerous offsets of the inner will be recognized more certainly by tracing them from above down along the trunk of the nerve, than by proceeding in the opposite direction : in fat bodies the two small nerves from the inner popliteal trunk to the knee-joint are difficult to find. Under cover of the outer boundary, and deep in the space, is an articular nerve from the external popliteal. In the bottom of the space are the popliteal vessels, the vein being clean the more superficial than the artery. The student is to seek an articular vessels '■> branch (superior) on each side, close above the condyle of the femur, and to clean numerous other branches of the vessels to the muscles around, especially to those of the calf. On the upper part of the find obtu- artery, the branch of nerve from the obturator to the knee-joint is and*glands, to be found ; and on the sides of the artery are three or four lym- phatic glands in the fat. After the ham has been cleaned, the sartorius and the gracilis are to be replaced in their natural position on the inner side. The popliteal space, or ham (fig. 198), is the hollow behind The ham : the knee : it allows of the free flexion of the joint, and contains the large vessels of the limb. When dissected, this interval has the situation form of a lozenge, and extends upwards along one-third of the and extent' femur, and downwards along one-sixth of the tibia ; but in the natural condition the muscles on the sides are approximated by the fascia of the limb, and the space is limited almost to the region of the joint.