338 DISSECTION OF THE THORAX. small triangular fold, the vestigial fold of the pericardium (Marshal]), between the pulmonary artery and the upper pulmonary vein : this includes the remains of a left superior cava which existed in the foetus. Vessels. The vessels of the pericardium are derived from the aorta, the internal mammary, the bronchial, the oesophageal, and the phrenic arteries. Nerves. Nerves. According to Luschka the pericardium receives nerves from the phrenic, sympathetic, and right vagus. THE HEART AND ITS LARGE VESSELS. The heart is hollow. Size and weight. Situation in the chest. apex ; surfaces "borders ; right and left halves. Extent of the heart upwards, downwards. to right, The heart is a hollow muscular organ by which the blood is propelled through the body. Into it, as the centre of the vascular system, veins enter ; and from it the arteries issue. Form. The heart is conical in form, but somewhat compressed from before backwards. The anterior surface is convex ; and the posterior or lower is nearly flat. The left border is thick and round; while the right is thin, sharp, and less firm. Size. The size of the heart varies greatly; and it is usually smaller in the woman than in the man. Its average measurements may be said to be about five inches in length, three inches and a half in width, and two and a half in thickness. Its weight is generally from ten to twelve ounces in the male, and from eight to ten in the female. Position and direction. The heart lies behind the lower two-thirds of the sternum, and projects on each side of that bone, but more to the left than the right. Its axis is directed very obliquely, from behind forwards and to the left, as well as somewhat downwards. The base is towards the spine, being opposite the sixth, seventh and eighth dorsal vertebrae, and looks backwards and upwards. The apex strikes the wall of the chest during life in the fifth inter- costal space of the left side, at the junction of the ribs with their cartilages. The anterior surface looks forwards and somewhat up- wards ; while the posterior surface is nearly horizontal, resting on the diaphragm. The right margin is turned to the front ; and the left is placed farther back. In consequence of the oblique position of the heart, the right half and the apex are directed towards the thoracic wall, though mostly with lung intervening; while the left half is undermost and deep in the cavity. Limits (fig. 102). The extent of the heart in relation to the front of the chest may be indicated as follows :—The upper limit is marked by a line across the sternum from the lower edge of the second costal cartilage of the left side to the upper edge of the third cartilage of the right side ; and the lower limit by a line, slightly convex downwards, from the seventh chondro-sternal articulation of the right side to the spot where the apex touches, the latter point being usually about one inch and a half below, and three-quarters of an inch to the sternal side of the nipple. On the right side the