470 DISSECTION OF THE ABDOMEN. relations peritoneum around it. Junction of ileum. Vermiform process. Ascending colon: parts around. Transverse colon: extent and course; splenic flexure; arch of colon ; relations of arch : disposition of peri- toneum. Descending colon : and peri- toneum. empty it may be entirely covered by the convolutions of the small intestine ; but more frequently it is found more or less distended, and resting against the anterior abdominal wall. The caecum is as a rule entirely surrounded by peritoneum, which sometimes forms a small fold (meso-csecum) behind it ; but occasionally it is closely bound down by the peritoneum being reflected off on each side, so as to leave the hinder surface uncovered, and connected to the iliac fascia by areolar tissue. This part of the large intestine is joined at its inner and posterior aspect by the termination of the ileum, which marks the division between the caecum and ascending colon ; and near the blind extre- mity the caecum has attached to it a slender worm-like process—the vermiform appendix. This process is usually directed upwards and inwards, under cover of the caecum, to which it is connected by a fold of peritoneum. The ascending colon reaches from the caecum to the under surface of the liver, where the intestine makes a bend known as the hepatic flexure. It lies against the iliacus and quadratus lumborum, and in its upper part along the outer border of the kidney. In front and to its inner side are the convolutions of the small intestine. The peritoneum fixes the ascending colon to the wall of the abdomen, and surrounds commonly about two-thirds of the circumference; but it may encircle the tube, and form a fold behind (ascending meso-colon). The transverse colon (fig. 144, tr c) begins at the hepatic flexure, and passes across to the left and upwards, along the great curvature of the stomach, as far as the spleen. Here another bend is formed at the junction with the descending colon, sharper than that on the right side, and named the splenic flexure. In this course the transverse colon is deeper at each end than in the middle, and thus forms the arch of the colon, which has its convexity directed forwards. Above the arch are placed the liver and gall-bladder, the stomach, and the spleen ; and below, the convolutions of the small intestine. In passing from right to left, the transverse colon first lies over the right kidney and the second part of the duodenum, and is fixed to these organs by its peritoneum, which is arranged like that of the ascending colon. But beyond the duodenum, it is only loosely attached to the back of the abdomen by a long fold of peritoneum, the transverse meso-colon (fig. 145, mc) ; while the great omentum (g om), which passes between it and the stomach, covers it in front. The descending colon extends from the spleen to the iliac crest, and is longer than the ascending part. At first it is placed deeply in the left hypochondriac region, resting against the diaphragm, and partly concealed by the stomach. Lower down, it has the small intestine in front and the quadratus lumborum behind. Along the inner side, it is closely applied to the outer part of the left kidney. This part of the colon is smaller than either the right or the transverse portion, and is commonly less surrounded by the