319 UNION OF KADIUS AND ULNA. Kind of motion : bendim Radius is joined to ulna, across the bottom of the cavity the cartilage is wanting over a small space between the coronoid and olecranon processes. The head of the radius presents a circular depression with a raised Head of the margin, which plays over the capitellum of the humerus. Movement. This joint is like a hinge in its movements, permitting only flexion and extension. In flexion, the bones of the forearm move forwards, each on its own articular surface, so as leave the back of the humerus un- covered. The movement is checked by the meeting of the arm and forearm ; and the posterior and internal lateral ligaments are stretched. In extension, the ulna and radius are carried back over the articular extendii surface of the humerus until they come into a line with the arm- bone. This movement is checked by the anterior ligament, and the muscles on the front of the joint. Union of the Badius and Ulna. The radius is connected with the ulna at both ends by means of synovial joints, with surrounding ligaments; and the shafts of the bones are united by interosseous ligaments. Upper radio-tjlnar articu- lation. In this joint the head of the radius is received into the small sigmoid cavity of the ulna, and is kept in place by the fol- lowing ligamentous band:— The annular or orbicular ligament (fig. 95, a) is about one-third orbicular of an inch wide, and is stronger behind than before ; it is placed aroundthe around the prominence of the head of the radius, and is attached to head of the the anterior and posterior edges of the small sigmoid cavity of the ' ulna. Its upper border, the thicker, is connected with the ligaments of the elbow-joint ; but the lower is free, and is applied around the neck of the radius. In the socket formed by this ligament and the cavity of the ulna the radius moves freely. The synovial membrane is a prolongation of that lining the elbow- synovial joint ; it projects inferiorly between the neck of the radius and the membrane- lower margin of the annular ligament. Ligaments of the shafts of the bones. The aponeurotic union of the stratum connecting together the bones in nearly their whole length sliafts: consists of the two following parts :— The interosseous membrane (fig. 94,3) is a thin fibrous layer, interosseous which is attached to the contiguous margins of the radius and ulna, membrane and forms an incomplete septum between the muscles on the front * View of the orbicular ligament (a) of the radius, which retains the upper end of the bone against the ulna.