ORIGIN OF CRANIAL NERVES. 187 pairs. In the former classification (that of Willis) all the trunks or twelve entering one aperture in the skull are regarded as constituting one paus" nerve ; and thus the facial and auditory are included in the seventh nerve, while the glosso-pharyngeal, pneumo-gastric and spinal accessory make up the eighth nerve. According to the other arrangement (Scemmering's) each trunk is considered a separate Soemmer- nerve, although it may be associated with others in the foramen of enumeration exit. The classification into twelve pairs is on the whole preferable, ^ep°wed and is the one more generally used. The several nerves may be designated first, second, third, and so ^ignation forth : this numerical mode of naming applies to all. number, But a second name has been derived for some of the nerves from the parts to which they are supplied ; as instances of this nomen- name of clature the terms pneumo-gastric and hypoglossal may be taken. And part' a different appellation is given to others, in consequence of the function conferred on the part to which they are distributed, as the or function, terms auditory, oculomotor and olfactory express. In this way two names may be employed in referring to a nerve:—one being numerical, the other local or functional, as is exemplified below. The first or olfactory nerves are about twenty fine filaments ^j^g017 which spring from the under surface of the olfactory bulb (p. 203). They are very soft, and break off close to their origin when the brain is removed from the skull. The second or optic (fig. 53,2) is the largest of the cranial Second nerves except the fifth, and appears on the crus cerebri as a flat band, "^Jc ;1S which is directed inwards to join the one of the opposite side in a commissure. The part behind the commissure is distinguished as the optic tract, and the name optic nerve is confined to the anterior part called portion, which is round and firm. The destination of the nerve is tract' the eyeball. The optic tract is the flattened band winding round the peduncle Optic tract, of the cerebrum. In front, it ends in the commissure ; and behind, it divides into two pieces which will be subsequently seen to take their origin from the optic thalamus, the corpora geniculata, and the origin now superior corpus quadrigeminum. As the tract passes forwards it is concealedJ attached to the crus cerebri by its outer or anterior edge ; and in- ternal to the crus it is placed between the anterior perforated spot relations, on the outer, and the tuber cinereum on the inner side : it is said to be joined here by additional fibres springing from the latter body. The commissure (chiasma) of the nerves measures nearly half an its commis- inch across, and lies on the olivary eminence of the sphenoid bone, sure: within the circle of Willis. It is placed in front of the tuber cine- situation, reum ; and passing beneath it (in this position of the brain) is the thin lamina cinerea. In the commissure each tract is resolved into three sets of fibres arrangement with the following arrangement :—The outer fibres, few in number, of nbres- are continued straight to the eyeball of the same side. The middle, the most numerous, decussate with the corresponding fibres of the other tract,—those of the right tract being continued to the left