646 DISSECTION OF THE THIGH. boundaries, This hollow is situate between the muscles on the back of the limb ; and the lateral boundaries are therefore formed by the outer muscles of the thigh (hamstrings), and leg. Thus, on tbe outer side, is the biceps muscle (6) as far as the joint, and the plantaris and the external head of the gastrocnemius (8) beyond that spot, and inner; On the inner side, as low as the articulation, are the semimembra- nosus (4) and semitendinosus (5) muscles with the gracilis and sartorius between them and the femur ; and beyond the joint is the inner head of the gastrocnemius (7). The upper point of the ham is formed by the apposition of the inner and outer hamstrings; and at the lower point the heads of the gas- trocnemius touch each other. Stretched over the cavity are the fascia lata and the integuments. In the deep boundary, or the floor, are the following things,—the surface on the back of the femur included between the lines to the condyles (popliteal surface), the posterior liga- ment of the knee-joint, and part of the popliteus muscle with the upper end of the tibia. The popliteal space is widest and deepest immediately above the fe- moral condyles. Above and below it communicates, beneath the muscles, with the back of the thigh and leg. In the hollow are contained the popliteal vessels with their branches, and the ending of the external sa- phenous vein ; the popliteal trunks of the great sciatic nerve, and some of their branches ; together with lymphatic glands, and a large quan- tity of fat. The small sciatic nerve and its vessels are placed superficially in the ham; and a branch of the obturator nerve lies on the artery in the bottom of the space. Popliteal The popliteal artery (fig. 198, l) is the continuation of the artery. femoral, and reaches from the opening in the adductor magnus to extent; the lower border of the popliteus muscle, where it terminates by bifurcating into the anterior and posterior tibial arteries. A portion only a small of the artery lies in the popliteal space, and is not covered by muscle; part in space. * View of the popliteal space (Quain's Arteries). 1. Popliteal vessels. 2. Internal popliteal nerve. 3. External popliteal nerve. 4. Semimembranosus muscle. 5. Semitendinosus muscle. 6. Biceps muscle. 7, 8. Inner and outer heads of the gastrocnemius muscle. The superficial vein on the gastro- cnemius is the short saphenous, which enters the popliteal. Fig. 198*. limit above and below; superficial and deep boundaries ; greatest width and depth ; contents.