INNER CEREBRAL CONVOLUTIONS. 211 The hippocampal or dentate fissure (li) is placed in front of the Hippocam- foregoing, at the inner margin of the lower portion of the hemi- pal lissure- sphere, and separates the uncinate convolution (u) from the taenia hippocampi (th). It corresponds to the hippocampus major in the descending comu of the lateral ventricle, and its relations will be better seen when that body is examined. The collateral fissure (coll) gives rise to the collateral eminence Collateral in the lateral ventricle. It extends from near the posterior extremity of the hemisphere to the fore part of the temporo-sphenoidal lobe, and is frequently broken up into two or three parts by cross gyri. Convolutions. The marginal convolution (m) occupies the space Marginal between the calloso-marginal sulcus and the border of the hemi- tion™ U" sphere. It is much subdivided, and at its posterior extremity a small portion which is marked off by a short vertical furrow is distinguished as the oval or paracentral lobule. The marginal con- Oval lobule, volution is continuous over the border of the hemisphere with the internal orbital and superior frontal convolutions, while the oval lobule is formed by the upper end of the ascending frontal convolu- tion. The callosal convolution (gyrus fornicatus ; Call) is narrower and ^°£v°f £he simpler than the marginal. Beginning below the rostrum of the corpus corpus callosum, this convolution follows the curve of that body, callosum- and turns downwards behind its posterior extremity to end in a thin part which joins the uncinate convolution (u). It is bounded in the greater part of its extent by the calloso-marginal sulcus, but behind the spot where this furrow turns upwards it is continuous with the quadrate lobule (q). Near its ending, it is limited below by the calcarine fissure. The quadrate lobule (q) is placed between the end of the calloso- ^^ate marginal sulcus and the parieto-occipital fissure. Much subdivided by secondary furrows, it reaches the margin of the hemisphere above, where it is continuous with the superior parietal lobule, and joins the callosal convolution below. The cuneate lobule (occipital lobule ; Gun) is triangular in shape, Cuneate the base being formed by the margin of the hemisphere. In front 0 1 e' of it is the parieto-occipital, and below the calcarine fissure. Small irregular sulci divide it into secondary gyri. The uncinate or internal occipitotemporal convolution (u) extends ^^oiution from the posterior extremity of the hemisphere to the Sylvian fissure, being bounded by the calcarine and hippocampal fissures above, and by the collateral fissure below. It is somewhat narrowed in the middle, where the callosal convolution joins it, and enlarged in front and behind. At its fore part is a small piece (uncus) bent backwards over the lower end of the dentate fissure, from which the convolution derives its name. The external occipitotemporal convolution (eot) lies between the External collateral fissure and the inferior temporo-sphenoidal sulcus (it), temporal This is frequently not distinct from the lower temporo-sphenoidal ^J™111" convolution. At the bottom of the hippocampal fissure, the grey cortex of the r 2