LEFT VENTEICLE OF HEART. 347 In the adult the blood enters this cavity from the lungs by the Current of pulmonary veins, and Hows into the left ventricle by the large adult™ opening between the two. In the foetus only a very small quantity jn foetus, of blood passes through the lungs ; and the left auricle receives its pure blood at once from the right auricle through the aperture in the septum (foramen ovale). Dissection. The left ventricle may be opened by an incision along How to both the anterior and the posterior surfaces, near the septum; these ventricle. are to be joined at the apex, but are not to be extended upwards so as to reach the auricle. On raising the triangular flap the interior of the cavity will be visible. The cavity of the left ventricle (fig. 105) is longer and more Form of left ventricle. conical in shape than that of the opposite ventricle; and is oval, or almost circular, on a transverse section. The apex of the cavity reaches the apex of the heart. The base APex- is turned towards the auricle ; and in it are the openings into the Base with aorta (n) and the left auricle (I), openings. The wall of this ventricle is thicker than that of the right, and WalL the anterior boundary is formed for the most part by the septum. Its surface is irregular, like that of the right ventricle, in con- Inner sur- face has sequence of the projection of the columnse carnese; but near the fleshy great artery (aorta) the surface is smoother. There are three sets columils> of fleshy columns in this as in the right ventricle; and the musculi papillares, which give attachment to the tendinous cords of the &nd s^mee valve, are strongly marked : these are arranged in two large bundles, Very ai°e" which spring from the right and left sides of the cavity. The left auriculo-ventricular opening is placed beneath the orifice g^o-y^ntri- of the aorta, but close to it, only a thin fibrous band intervening eular aper- between the two. It is rather smaller than the corresponding tuie" aperture of the right side, being about three inches and a half in ^™u.and circumference, and is longest in the transverse direction. The centre of the opening corresponds to the junction of the fourth costal Pre- cartilage of the left side with the sternum. It is furnished with a membranous valve (mitral) which projects into the ventricle. The mitral valve is stronger and of greater length than the tri- Mitral valve ; cuspid, and has also firmer and more tendinous cords : it takes its name from a fancied resemblance to a mitre. Attached to a fibrous ring round the aperture, it is divided below by a notch on each side into two pieces. Its segments lie one before the other, with their segments; edges directed to the sides, and their surfaces towards the front and back of the cavity. The anterior tongue of the valve intervenes between the auricular and aortic openings, and is larger and looser than the posterior. The mitral resembles the tricuspid valve in its structure and office, structure ; Its segments consist of thicker and thinner parts; and in the notches at the sides there are also thinner pieces between the two primary segments. The chordae tendineee ascend to be attached to the valve attachment in the notches between the tongues ; and they end on the segments in the same way as in the tricuspid valve. Each of the large papil- lary muscles acts on both portions of the valve.