176 DISSECTION OF THE NECK. To fix odontoid process is the transverse ligament, also named cruciform. The transverse ligament of the atlas (fig. 50, l) is a strong arched band behind the odontoid process, which is attached on each side to a tubercle on the inner surface of the lateral mass of the atlas, below the fore part of the upper articular process. The ligament is rounded at each end, but flattened and wider in the middle ; and at this srjot it has a band of longitudinal fibres connected with its tipper and lower margins (fig. 49, 2) so as to produce a cruciform figure : the upper band is inserted into the basilar process, and the lower into the body of the axis. Towards the spinal canal it is concealed by the long occipito-axial ligament. Fig. 50.* Socket for odontoid process. Check ligaments. Suspensory ligament. Articular surfaces of odontoid process, and two synovial Gccipito- atlantal articula- tions are condyloid joints. This ligament forms, with the anterior arch of the atlas, a ring (fig. 50, 2) which surrounds the neck of the odontoid process of the axis, and prevents separation of the bones. The lateral odontoid or check ligaments (fig. 49, l) are two strong bundles of fibres, attached by one end to a flat impression on each side of the head of the odontoid process, and by the other to a rough mark on the inner surface of the condyle of the occipital bone. These ligaments are covered by the long occipito-axial band: their upper fibres are short and nearly horizontal; the lower are longer and oblique. The central odontoid ligament is a small median cord, which passes from the tip of the odontoid process to the anterior margin of the foramen magnum. When the transverse and odontoid ligaments have been cut through, the odontoid process will be seen to have two cartilage- covered surfaces, which correspond to as many synovial sacs. One surface is on the front of the process, and articulates with the anterior arch of the atlas ; the other is the floor of the groove behind the neck of the process, and is in contact with the transverse ligament. The posterior synovial sac is larger than the anterior. Occi/pito-atlantal articulations. A synovial joint is formed between the condyle of the occipital bone and the upper articular process of the atlas on each side. Surrounding the articulation is a capsular ligament of scattered fibres, which is strongest externally and in * Atlas with, the odontoid process removed from the ring formed by the bone and the transverse ligament. 1. Transversa ligament with its offsets cut. 2. Space occupied by the odontoid process.