DISSECTION OF THE LAEYNX. 154 Situation Form; and dimen- sions in male, in female, and in child, Relations. Muscles. extrinsic and intrinsic. Directions. Dissection of the superficial muscles. Crico- thyroid. Origin. Insertion. cartilages before beginning the dissection of the larynx. Their description is given at p. 163. The larynx is placed in the middle of the neck, in front of the pharynx, and in the resting condition opposite the fourth, fifth and sixth cervical vertebrae. It is however very moveable, its con- nections permitting especially a considerable degree of elevation, which comes into play in the act of swallowing. Its form is pyramidal, the base being turned upwards and attached to the hyoid bone, while the apex joins the trachea. In length it measures, in the male, about an inch and three-quarters ; in width, at the top nearly as much, and at the lower end one inch ; while the greatest depth from before backwards is about an inch and a half. In the female, the average length is an inch and a half, and the depth one inch. Before the age of puberty the larynx is relatively very small. On each side the larynx is covered by the depressor muscles of the hyoid bone, the carotid vessels, and the lateral lobes of the thyroid body. The front projects beneath the skin in the middle line of the neck ; and the posterior surface is covered by the mucous membrane of the pharynx. Muscles. The sterno-thyroid and thyro-hyoid muscles, which, together with the stylo-pharyngeus and inferior constrictor of the pharynx, move the larynx as a whole, are frequently called the extrinsic muscles of the larynx. The intrinsic muscles are six pairs and one single muscle. Of these, one paired muscle is exposed on the side of the larynx ; two pairs and the single muscle are seen at the back; and the rest are concealed by the thyroid cartilage. Directions. On one side of the larynx, say the right, the muscles may be dissected, and on the opposite side the nerves and vessels ; and the superficial muscles are to be first learnt, which do not require the cartilages to be cut. Dissection. The larynx being extended and fastened with pins, the dissector may clear away from the hyoid bone and the thyroid cartilage the following muscles, viz., omo-hyoid, sterno-hyoid, sterno- thyroid, thyro-hyoid, and inferior constrictor. Along the side, between the thyroid and cricoid cartilages, the crico-thyroid muscle (fig. 39) will be recognised. To denude the posterior muscles (fig. 40), it will be necessary to turn over the larynx, and to remove the mucous membrane covering- it. On the back of the cricoid cartilage the dissector will find the posterior crico-arytenoid muscle, and above this, on the back of the arytenoid cartilages, the arytenoid muscle will appear, with the crossing fasciculi of the aryteno-epiglottidean muscles on its surface. The crico-thyroid muscle (fig. 39,1) is fan-shaped, and is separated by a triangular interval from the one on the opposite side. It arises from the front and the lateral part of the cricoid cartilage ; and its fibres radiate to be inserted into the lower cornu, and the lower border of the thyroid cartilage as far forwards as a quarter of