475 REFLECTIONS OF PERITONEUM. liver and stomach is known as the small bag of the peritoneum ; while the part in front of those organs, which is much more exten- sive, and reaches into the pelvis, constitutes the large bag. The their con- \ , . , , . . . ° ° tmuity. two bags are however continuous, and their cavities communicate through the aperture termed the foramen of Winslow, as will be apparent by tracing the horizontal circle at a higher level than before, viz., immediately above the pyloric end of the stomach. Horizontal circle at the level of the foramen of Window (fig. 146). foramen" of Beginning in front at the falciform ligament of the liver (/), the Winslow: Fig. 146.* peritoneum may be followed on the left side along the abdominal wall and the diaphragm to the outer part of the left kidney, where it is reflected along the back of the splenic vessels to the spleen, forming one layer of the lieno-renal ligament (Ir). Having fur-covering of nished the investment of the spleen, the membrane passes as the sPleen > outer layer of the gastro-splenic omentum (gs om) to the stomach, and over the front of the latter into the anterior layer of the small omentum (s om). From the front, it turns round the hepatic vessels small to the back of the small omentum ; and at the spot where it passes omentum; behind the vessels it bounds the foramen of "Winslow (w), and the small bag begins. It then forms in succession the posterior cover- foramen of ing of the stomach, and the inner layer of the gastro-splenic omen- ^^mXll turn and lieno-renal ligament, and turning to the right, is continued hag. * Diagram of a horizontal section of the abdomen through the twelfth dorsal vertebra, to show the arrangement of the peritoneum at the foramen of Winslow and round the spleen. I. Liver. -st. Stomach. spl. Spleen. k, k. Kidneys, ao. Aorta ; farther forwards the coronary artery is seen, cut twice, v c. Inferior vena cava. w. Foramen of Winslow. s om. Small omentum, at the right end of which are, from left to right, the hepatic artery, portal vein, and bile-duct, gs om. Gastro-splenic omentum. Ir. Lieno-renal ligament. /. Falciform ligament. In front of the left kidney is the splenic artery, sending its branches to the stomach between the layers of the gastro- splenic omentum.