DISSECTION OF THE THOEAX. 366 in company with the superior intercostal artery, and joins the lower end of the vertebral vein. (Esophagus The cesophagus or gullet is a hollow muscular tube, which extends from the pharynx to the stomach : the cervical portion has been described at p. 119, and the thoracic part is now to be examined, in the Appearing in the thorax to the left of the middle line, the gullet thorax, ^g ^jrec^e(j "beneath the arch of the aorta, and reaches the middle of passes the spine about the fifth dorsal vertebra. From that spot it is diaphragm continued through the interpleural space on the right of the aorta till near the diaphragm, where it takes a position over the aorta, to gain the oesophageal opening of that muscle. Parts As far as the aortic arch the cesophagus lies beneath the trachea, covering itj though it projects to the left of the airtube ; beyond the arch it is crossed by the left bronchus, and is thence in contact with the beneath it, pericardium as far as the diaphragm. At the upper part of the thorax the gullet rests on the longi colli muscles and the vertebra ; but below the arch of the aorta it is separated from the spine by the large azygos vein, the thoracic duct, and the right intercostal arteries, as well as by the aorta near the diaphragm. Laterally it touches the and on left pleura above the arch, and both pleurae below, but the right much sides. more extensively than the left. Below the bronchus the pneumo-gastric nerves surround the cesophagus with their branches ; and above the same spot the thoracic duct is in contact with it on the left. Three coats Structure. If a piece of the gullet be removed and distended with are m it. tow^ y. wj-^ ^e eagy ^0 show a muscular, an areolar, and a mucous coat, from without inwards. A muscular The muscular coat is thick and strong, and consists of two layers of fibres, of which the external is longitudinal, and the internal circular in direction, like the muscular tunic of the other parts of the alimentary tube. In the upper third of the cesophagus the muscular coat is red, and composed of striped fibres ; but below this it becomes gradually paler, and the striped fibres give way to involuntary muscular tissue, external The external layer is formed of parallel longitudinal fibres, which longitudinal form a continuous covering, and end below on the stomach. The fibres begin opposite the cricoid cartilage (p. 131) ; and at intervals varying from half an inch to an inch and a half, they are interrupted by small tendons to y1^ of an inch long) like the fibres of the rectus abdominis muscle, and internal The internal layer of circular fibres is continuous above with the fibres^ fibres of the pharynx ; they are more oblique at the middle than at either end of the oesophagus. Fibrous The areolar or submucous layer is situate between the muscular layer. an(j mucous coats, and attaches the one to the other loosely. Mucous The mucous coat will be seen on cutting open the tube : it is coat. reddish in colour above but pale below, and is very loosely con- nected with the muscular coat, so that it is thrown into longitudinal Papilla; and folds when the cesophagus is contracted. The surface is studded epithelium. minilte papillae, which are however concealed by the thick, laminated, scaly epithelium.