401 INTERSPINOUS AND INTERTRANSVERSE MUSCLES. will extend the spine ; and the muscles of one side can rotate the column in the cervical and dorsal regions, turning the face in the opposite direction. * Dissection. The inultifidus spina? is now to be separated from Dissection, the cervical and lumbar spines to show the interspinal muscles. * The interspinales are arranged in pairs in the intervals interspinal between the spinous processes. They are most developed in the muscles: neck and loins. In the cervical region the muscles are small rounded bundles in neck; attached to the bifurcated extremities of the spines from the axis downwards. * In the dorsal region interspinal muscles are only present in one in dorsal or two of the highest and lowest spaces. region; * In the lumbar region they are thin flat muscles, reaching the in loins; . whole length of the spines, one on each side of the interspinous ligament. Action. These muscles help to extend the spine. their use- * The INTERTRANSVERSA.LES lie between the transverse process of ^*^erge the vertebra? ; but only those in the loins and the back are now muscles: dissected. In the neck they are double, and resemble the interspinal muscles in neck; of the cervical vertebra? (p. 171). * In the dorsal region they are single rounded bundles of smallin dorsal region j size, and are found only between the four or five lower vertebra?. They are represented in the middle spaces by thin fibrous bands, which constitute the so-called intertransverse ligaments (p. 379). * In the lumbar region there are two muscles in each space. The in loins; outer set are thin flat muscles between the transverse processes. The inner muscles are rounded bundles in a line with those of the dorsal region; they are attached to the accessory processes above, and the mamillary processes below ; and the highest is between the last dorsal and first lumbar vertebra?. Action. The intertransverse muscles assist in bending the spine their use. laterally. * Dissection (tig. 123). To see the posterior divisions of the Dissection sacral nerves, it will be necessary to remove the part of the nerves*1 multifidus spina? covering the sacrum. The upper three nerves are split into two each ; their external branches will be found readily on the great sacro-sciatic ligament, from which they may be traced inwards ; the inner branches are very slender and difficult to find. The lower two nerves are very small, and do not divide like the others. They are to be sought on the back of the sacrum, below the attachment of the multifidus spina?. The fourth comes through a sacral aperture, and the fifth between the sacrum and coccyx. The coccygeal nerve is still lower, by the side of the coccyx. * Sacral nerves (fig. 123). The posterior primary branches of Five sacral the sacral nerves are five in number. Four issue from the spinal nerves' canal by the apertures in the back of the sacrum, and the fifth between the sacrum and the coccyx. The first three have the D D