225 MESENCEPHALON. is continued outwards and forwards : the upper brachium passes into the optic tract; while the lower band sinks beneath a small but internal well defined oval prominence, which is placed between the crus cerebri Doay.Ulat9 and the optic thalamus, and is named the internal geniculate body. The quadrigeminal bodies are small masses of grey substance, covered by a white layer. From the grey matter of the upper one fibres of the optic tract take origin. Behind the quadrigeminal bodies are seen the superior peduncles Below of the cerebellum (fig. 65, I; 70, sp) with the valve of Vieussens Meu^seen. (fig. 65, k) between them. Issuing from beneath the transverse fibres of pons, and arching over the cerebellar peduncle, is an oblique, slightly raised band named the fillet (fig. 70, /), which disappears under the lower quadrigeminal body. The fillet is a white fibrous tract, the origin of which is uncertain, Fillet: but which appears in sections of the upper part of the pons between the reticular formation and the deep transverse fibres. At the upper edge of the pons the outer fibres become superficial, and curving round the superior peduncle of the cerebellum, pass to the ^^^j quadrigeminal bodies, in which many of the fibres are lost, while part; others decussate in the lamina quadrigemina, above the aqueduct of Sylvius, with those of the opposite side. The inner fibres of the inner or fillet maintain their deep position, and are continued upwards in deep part' the tegmentum to the cerebral hemisphere. The origin of the optic tract can now be seen. At the outer side Optic tract of the crus cerebri the optic tract forms a bend (genu), and then nates fr°m divides into two parts. The inner and smaller of these springs ^^la^d from the internal geniculate body ; while the outer is continued thalamus, from the external geniculate body and optic thalamus, receiving also the brachium of the superior quadrigeminal body. The posterior commissure (fig. 65, e) is the thin foremost part of Posterior the lamina quadrigemina, which is folded back so as to present a comnnssure- rounded margin in front towards the third ventricle, above the opening of the aqueduct of Sylvius. On each side it joins the optic thalamus, and to its upper part the stalk of the pineal body is attached. It consists mainly of decussating fibres continuous with those of the fillet ; but some are said to be commissural, uniting the tegmenta of the two sides. The pineal body (conarium ; fig. 65, g) is ovoidal in shape, like Pineal^ the cone of a pine, and about a quarter of an inch in length. It lies gland • with its base turned forwards in the groove between the superior quadrigeminal bodies. It is surrounded by pia mater ; and its base is attached by a hollow white stalk, below to the posterior commis- sure, and above to the optic thalamus on each side, along which it sends forwards the thin band already described as the pineal stria (/; P- 223). This body is of a red colour and very vascular. It is not structure, composed of nervous substance, but consists of small follicles lined by epithelium, and containing minute granular masses of calcareous matter (brain-sand) : similar concretions are often found on its surface, and adhering to its stalk.