573 INTERIOR OF THE URETHRA. gallinaginis) : it is formed of erectile substance, with a framework of elastic and muscular tissues. In the crest of the mucous mem- in the crest brane, near its posterior extremity, is a small hollow (e) named 1S a pouch- vesicula prostatica, sinus pocularis, or utricle. The vesicula prostatica (fig. 177, g) is directed backwards in the Vesicula prostate, for a quarter of an inch, passing beneath the middle and thelirostate! between the lateral lobes. Its orifice in the urethra is about a line wide, and its closed extremity is about as large again. Along the and by its wall, on each side, is placed the common seminal duct (f)} which gjaculatoiy terminates on or within the margin of the mouth of the sac ; and if ducts, bristles are introduced into the common seminal duct behind the prostate, they will render the apertures evident. Small glands open on the surface of the mucous membrane lining the utricle. The vesicula is the remains of the united lower ends of the ducts of Miiller in the foetus, and represents the uterus in the female. On each side of the central crest is an excavation, which is named Prostatic the prostatic sinus (fig. 178, /), Into this hollow the greater number f^oor.3 S° of the ducts of the prostatic glands open ; but the apertures of some are seen at the back of the central eminence. The MEMBRANOUS PART OF THE URETHRA (fig. 178, g) is three- Membraii- quarters of an inch in length, and intervenes between the apex of °us part' the prostate gland and the bulb (k) of the corpus spongiosum urethrse. In its interior are slight longitudinal folds. This is the dimensions; narrowest piece of the whole tube, with the exception of the outer -orifice, and measures rather less than a quarter of an inch across. It is the weakest of the three portions of the canal, and is supported parts by a thin stratum of erectile tissue, by a thin layer of unstriated around- circular fibres (p. 429), and outside all by the constrictor urethree muscle. The spongy part (fig. 178, i) reaches to the end of the penis. sP°tn^ It is about six inches in length, and its strength depends upon a surrounding material named corpus spongiosum urethrse. The average size of the canal is about a quarter of an inch in dimensions diameter, though at the vertical slit (meatus urinarius), by which it terminates on the glans penis, the tube is smaller than elsewhere. On a cross section it appears star-shaped, but in the glans, as a vertical slit. Two dilations exist in the spongy portion ;—one is two dilata- along the floor close to the triangular ligament, being contained in one irTbuib the bulb or bulbous part of the urethra, and is named sinus of the one in glans; bulb ; the other is an elongated hollow, situate in the glans penis, and has been called fossa navicularis (n). There are many small pouches or lacunas (o) in the canal, as far lacunse back as the membranous part, which have their apertures turned towards the outer orifice of the urethra. One of these, larger than one iarger the rest, lacuna magna, is found generally immediately within the J;^11 the meatus, in the roof of the fossa navicularis. The ducts of Coivper's glands (fig. 178, h) are two in number, Ducts of glands o" Cowper. and terminate, one on each side, on the floor of the urethra near the eliil|l|s 1 bulb ; but their openings are generally too small to be recognised. Mucous lining of the urethra. The mucous membrane of the urethra Mucous membrane