DISSECTION OF THE ABDOMEN. 506 THE LIVER. Office of the liver. Clean vessels on under surface ; follow left piece of vena portse. Colour and consistence ; weight; measure- ments. Form altered when re- moved ; divisions. Upper sur- face smooth: lower sur- face uneven: hinder sur- face also irregular. Anterior border thin and notched. The liver secretes the bile, and is the largest gland in the body- Its duct opens into the duodenum with that of the pancreas. Dissection (fig. 159). Preparatory to examining the liver, the vessels at the under surface should be dissected out. This proceed- ing will be facilitated by distending the vena cava and vena portse with tow or cotton-wool, and the gall-bladder with air through its duct. The several vessels and the ducts are then to be defined, and the gall-bladder is to be cleaned. On following outwards the left branch of the portal vein to the longitudinal or antero-posterior fissure, it will be found united anteriorly with the round ligament (c) or the remains of the umbilical vein, and posteriorly with the thin fibrous remnant of the ductus venosus (d). The liver is of a red-brown colour and firm consistence, and weighs commonly in the adult from three to four pounds. Trans- versely the gland measures from ten to twelve inches ; from front to back between six and seven inches ; and in thickness, at the right end, about three inches, but this last measurement varies much with the spot examined. The natural shape of the liver when within the body is very different from the form it assumes when removed and placed on a flat surface, as may be seen by comparing fig. 158, which repre- sents the organ hardened in situ, with fig. 159. It has three surfaces—superior, inferior, and posterior,—one well-defined border —the anterior,—and two extremities. The inferior and posterior- surfaces are farther subdivided into lobes by fissures which contain vessels, and marked by fossae and impressions. The position and relations of the liver are described at p. 4717 and the peritoneal ligaments at p. 478. Surfaces. On the upper aspect the liver is smooth, and marked towards the left side by a shallow impression for the heart. The suspensory ligament extends from front to back of this surface, and divides it into two unequal parts, of which the right is the larger. The under surface (fig. 158) is rendered irregular by fissures and fossae ; in contact with it is the gall-bladder ; and a longitudinal sulcus separates the right from the left lobe. The posterior surface, which is also divided into two by a con- tinuation of the longitudinal sulcus, is broad over the right lobe, but narrow on the left. In the centre is a hollow for the spine, to the right of which the inferior vena cava is partly embedded in the liver. On the right of the cava, the surface is rough between the layers of the coronary ligament (fig. 158,*), where it was adherent to the diaphragm ; and close to the vein is a small hollow (suprarenal impression; fig. 158, sr i) into which the right suprarenal body is received. Border. The anterior border is thin, and is marked by two notches : one is opposite the longitudinal sulcus on the under