DISSECTION OF THE BRAIN. 196 vanes m extent. Dissection. Fibres of lateral tract. Direct cerebellar tract. fibres from each side, but the proportion of the pyramidal fibres which decussate in the medulla varies much in different individuals. Dissection. For the purpose of seeing the deeper fibres of the medulla oblongata, the pyramid may be cut across on the right side between the decussation and the olivary body (fig. 57) and raised towards the pons. The lateral tract is composed of the remaining fibres of the lateral column of the cord, after the crossed pyramidal tract has been given off. Most of these pass deeply behind the olivary body, and through the reticular formation to the pons; but one small band, the direct cerebellar tract, is continued superficially from the lateral column to the cerebellum. This band is often visible on the surface of the medulla, as a whiter streak lying along the outer edge of the lateral tract, and inclining backwards above the tubercle of Rolando to join the restiform body, funiculus Posterior funiculi. The white fibres of the cuneate and slender cuneatus, funiculi are the continuation of the posterior, and posterior median ofRoiando'1 COiumns °f the corc^ respectively, and are believed to end entirely in the grey nuclei of the funiculi. The funiculus of Rolando has only a very thin superficial white layer, which is also derived from the posterior column. Formation The restiform body is formed mainly by the arciform fibres of body! 1 °rm the medulla, with the direct cerebellar tract from the lateral column of the cord. Arciform Arciform fibres. In the upper half of the medulla oblongata, fibres> covering its anterior surface and traversing its substance, is an extensive system of fibres, curving outwards and backwards from * Transverse section of the medulla oblongata at the lower part of the fourth ventricle (Clarke), a. Pyramid, b. Olivary body. c. Tubercle of Rolando, d. Restiform body. e. Lateral boundary of fourth ventricle. /. White core of the olivary body, with the roots of the hypoglossal nerve to its inner side. g. Olivary peduncle, h. Deep arciform fibres entering the raphe (a few more are added from a second drawing), k.l. Reticular formation. n. Floor of fourth ventricle, o. Hypoglossal nucleus, p. Glossopharyngeal nucleus. r. Inner auditory nucleus. s. Superficial arciform fibres. t. Remains of the gelatinous substance.