531 BRANCHES OF INFERIOR VENA CAVA. visceral branches from the testicle, the kidney, the suprarenal body, and the liver. The veins belonging to the stomach, the intestinal canal, the except those spleen, and the pancreas, are united to form the vena porta) °£ digestive (p. 489) ; and the blood contained in those vessels reaches the cava by the hepatic veins, after it has circulated through the liver. The spermatic vein (o) enters the abdomen by the internal Spermatid abdominal ring, after forming the spermatic plexus in the cord vem (p. 521). At first there are two branches in the abdomen, which lie on the sides of the spermatic artery ; but these soon join into one trunk. On the left side it opens into the renal vein at a right ends cliffer- angle, and there is generally a small valve over the aperture ; on the ^anT right side it enters the inferior cava below the renal vein. As the right sides; vein ascends to its destination, it receives one or more branches branches: from the wall of the abdomen, and the fat about the kidney. In the female this vein (ovarian) has the same ending as in the vein in the male, and it forms a plexus in the broad ligament of the uterus. female- Valves are absent from the vein and its branches, but commonly there is one at its union with the renal. The renal or emulgent vein (n) is of large size, and joins the vena Renal vein: cava at a right angle. It commences by many branches in the position to kidney ; and the trunk resulting from their union is superficial to arter>'; the renal artery. The right vein is the shorter, and usually joins the cava a little difference on> lower than the other. The left vein crosses the aorta close to the tw0 sules- origin of the superior mesenteric artery ; it receives the left spermatic and suprarenal veins. The suprarenal vein is of considerable size when it is compared Suprarenal with the body from which it comes. The right opens into the cava, f^tiy on" and the left into the renal vein. each side. The hepatic veins enter the vena cava where it is in contact with Hepatic the liver. These veins are described in the dissection of the liver vei_ns> before- , , noticed, (p. 511). The lumbar veins correspond in number and course with the Lumbar arteries of the same name : they will be dissected later (p. 538). v ms" The diaphragmatic veins (inferior), two with each artery, spring Phrenic from the under surface of the diaphragm. They join the cava either as one trunk or two. DEEP MUSCLES OF THE ABDOMEN. The deep muscles in the interior of the abdomen are the psoas, iliacus, and quadratus lumborum. The psoas magnus (fig. 166, f) reaches from the lumbar vertebrse psoag to the femur, and is situate partly in the abdomen and partly in the Magnus = ' r J situation ; thigh. The muscle arises from the front of the transverse processes of origin from the lumbar vertebrae, from the bodies and intervertebral discs of JjJjJjJ^ the last dorsal and all the lumbar vertebrse by five fleshy pieces.— m m 2