314 DISSECTION OF UPPEB LIMB. dorsal arteries of thumb and fore finger. Sheaths of annular ligament from with- out inwards. Bones grooved by the tendons. To see insertion of supinator, interosseous nerve, and inter- osseous muscles. c. Two small dorsal arteries of the thumb (c) arise opposite the metacarpal bone, along which they extend, one on each border, to be distributed on its posterior aspect. d. The dorsal branch of the index finger is distributed on the radial edge of that digit. The different divisions of the annular ligament may be seen more completely by cutting the sheaths of the ligament over the several tendons passing beneath. There are six separate compartments, and each is lubricated by a synovial membrane. The most ex- ternal one lodges the first two extensors of the thumb. The next is a large hollow for the two radial extensors of the wrist ; and a small space for the extensor of the second phalanx of the thumb follows on the ulnar side. Farther to the inner side is the common sheath for the extensor of the fingers, and that of the fore finger ; and then comes a slender compartment for the extensor of the little finger. Internal to all is the space for the extensor carpi ulnaris. The last muscle grooves the ulna ; but the others lie in hollows in the radius in the order mentioned above, with the exception of the extensor minimi digiti which is situate between the bones. Dissection. If the supinator brevis be divided by a vertical inci- sion, and reflected from the radius, its attachment to that bone will be better understood. The posterior interosseous nerve, and the offsets from its gangli- form enlargement, may be traced more completely after the tendons of the extensor of the fingers and indicator muscle have been cut at the wrist. The posterior surface of the dorsal interosseous muscles of the hand may be cleaned, so that their double origin, and their insertion into the side, and on the dorsum of the phalanges, may be observed. Between the heads of origin of these muscles the posterior perforat- ing arteries appear. Section VII. LIGAMENTS OF THE SHOULDEK, ELBOW, WKIST, AND HAND. Directions. Directions. The ligaments of the remaining articulations of the limb, which are still moist, may be examined at once ; but if any of them have become dry, they may be softened by immersion in water, or with a wet cloth, while the student learns the others. Dissection Dissection. For the preparation of the external ligaments of the ligaments of shoulder-joint the tendons of the surrounding muscles, viz., sub- shoulder, scapularis, supraspinatus, infraspinatus, and teres minor, must be detached from the capsule ; and as these are united with it, some care will be needed not to open the joint. Shoulder- The Shoulder-Joint. This ball and socket joint (fig. 93) is outline of. formed between the head of the humerus and the glenoid fossa of the