MEDULLA OBLONGATA. 191 matter, in the medulla oblongata behind and to the outer side of the hypo- glossal nucleus (Darkschewitsch). The ninth, tenth, and eleventh nerves converge below the crus cerebelli, and rest here on a small lobe of the cerebellum (flocculus). From that spot they are directed outwards to the jugular foramen (p. 19). The twelfth or hypoglossal nerve (ninth of Willis,9) appears Twelfth \ * f x x nerve irom on the front of the medulla oblongata, where it is attached by a front of series of filaments (ten to fifteen) along the groove between the Xion^ata: pyramid and the olivary body, in a line with the anterior roots of the spinal nerves. The filaments of origin unite into two bundles, which pierce the dura mater separately, and unite at the outer part of the anterior condylar foramen. Deep origin. The roots of the nerve can be followed through the medulla nucleus near oblongata to a nucleus, which is placed in front of the central canal below, fourtl^ and extends upwards into the lower part of the fasciculus teres in the fourth Ventricle, ventricle. Section III. MEDULLA OBLONGATA AND PONS VAROLII. The medulla oblongata and the pons are interposed between the spinal cord and the brain proper. Directions. On a single brain the student may learn nearly all Directions, the anatomy of the medulla and pons ; but if he can procure one hardened specimen of the medulla oblongata and pons united, and another of a vertical median section through those bodies, he will comprehend much more readily the following description of them. Position. The brain is to remain in the same position as for the Position, examination of the vessels and nerves. The medulla oblongata or bulb is the expanded upper end of Medulla the spinal cord which is contained in the cranium. Its limits are extent^ a' the lower border of the pons in one direction, and the lower margin of the foramen magnum in the other. It is somewhat conical in form, and measures nearly an inch in length, half an inch in form and breadth below, and about an inch at its widest part above. S12e- Its base joins the pons, the transverse fibres of the latter marking Base, its limit; and its apex is blended with the spinal cord. The Apex, anterior surface (fig. 54) is irregularly convex, and is in contact with Surfaces, the hollowed basilar process of the occipital bone. The opposite surface (fig. 55) is somewhat excavated above, where it forms the floor of the fourth ventricle ; and it rests in the groove between the hemispheres of the cerebellum. On the posterior aspect there are not any cross fibres of the pons, as in front, to mark the extent of the medulla.