MYLO-HYOID MUSCLE. sends a deep process round the posterior or free border of that and rela- muscle. In front of it is the anterior belly of the digastric ; and tl0ns behind is the stylo-maxillary ligament separating it from the of submax- paroticl. The gland is covered only by the integuments, platysma, lllary §land- and deep fascia ; and the facial artery winds forwards on its deep surface. In structure the submaxillary resembles the parotid gland (p. 29); structure, and its duct—duct of Wharton-—-issuing from the deep process, extends beneath the mylo-hyoid muscle to the mouth. Dissection. To see the mylo-hyoid muscle, detach the anterior Dissection belly of the digastric from the jaw, and dislodge without injury the submaxillary gland from beneath the bone. The mylo-hyoid mdscle is triangular in shape, with the base at Mylo-hyoid the jaw and the apex at the hyoid bone, and unites along the middle line with its fellow of the opposite side. It arises from the arises from mylo-hyoid ridge on the inner surface of the lower jaw as far back jaw as the last molar tooth ; and its fibres are inserted partly into the inserted front of the body of the hyoid bone, but the greater number end, j^nVand1 with those of the muscle of the opposite side, in a median raphe raPhe- between that bone and the jaw. On the cutaneous surface lie the anterior belly of the digastric d it and the submaxillary gland, the facial artery with its submental offset, and the mylo-hyoid nerve and artery. The fibres of the muscle are frequently deficient near the jaw, and allow the genio- hyoid to be seen. Only the posterior border is unattached, and round it a piece of the submaxillary gland winds. The parts in contact with the deep surface of the muscle will be shown after the undermentioned dissection has been made. Action. The mylo-hyoid assists the digastric and genio-hyoid in Use. depressing the lower jaw or elevating the hyoid bone ; but its principal action is to raise the floor of the mouth and press the tongue against the palate, as in the first stage of deglutition. Dissection. To bring into view the muscles beneath the mylo- hyoid, and to trace the vessels and nerves to the substance of the mylo-hyoid. tongue, the student should first divide the facial vessels on the jaw, and remove them with the superficial part of the submaxillary gland ; but he should be careful to leave the deep part of the gland which turns beneath the mylo-hyoid, because the small submaxillary ganglion is in contact with it. Next he should cut through the small branches of vessels and nerve on the surface of the mylo- hyoid ; and detaching that muscle from the jaw, should turn it down (as in fig. 24), but without injuring the genio-hyoid muscle beneath it. Afterwards the bone is to be sawn through on the right of, but ^g^6^ close to the muscles attached to the symphysis, the soft parts the jaw, covering the jaw having been first cut. The loose side of the jaw (for the ramus of the bone has been sawn before) is to be raised to see the parts beneath, and it may be fastened up with a stitch ; but it should not be detached from the mucous membrane of the mouth.