DISSECTION OF THE UPPER LIMB. 260 intercostal, perforating, musculo- phrenic. Intercostal nerves : course, termina- tion, and branches. Intercostal arteries bifurcate : offsets. At this stage the thorax and back are dissected. twigs pass backwards to be distributed to the remains of the thymus gland and the pericardium. c. Two anterior intercostal branches run outwards in each space, lying along the borders of the costal cartilages, and terminate by anastomosing with the aortic intercostal arteries. d. Perforating branches, one or two opposite each space, pierce the internal intercostal and large pectoral muscles, and are distributed on the surface of the thorax with the anterior cutaneous nerves : the lower branches supply the mamma in the female. e. The musculo-phrenic branch courses outwards beneath the cartilages of the seventh and eighth ribs, and enters the diaphragm : it supplies anterior branches to the lower intercostal spaces. Its termination will appear in the dissection of the abdomen. Two veins accompany the artery ; these join into one trunk, which opens into the innominate vein. The intercostal nerves, seen now in the anterior half of their extent, are the anterior primary branches of the dorsal nerves, and supply the wall of the thorax. Placed at first between the layers of the intercostal muscles, each gives off the lateral cutaneous nerve of the thorax about midway between the spine and the sternum. Much diminished in size by the emission of this offset, the trunk is continued onwards, at first in, and afterwards beneath the internal intercostal muscle, as far as the side of the sternum, where it ends as the anterior cutaneous nerve of the thorax. Branches supply the intercostal muscles, and the triangularis sterni. The aortic intercostal arteries lie with the nerves between the strata of intercostal muscles, and close to the upper rib bounding the space. Near the angle of the rib the artery gives off a branch which is continued forwards along the edge of the lower rib ; and both anastomose in front with the intercostal offsets of the internal mammary artery. A small cutaneous offset is distributed with the lateral cutaneous nerve of the thorax; and other branches are furnished to the thoracic wall. Directions. The dissector of the upper limb now waits the ap- pointed time for the examination of the thorax. But as soon as the body is turned he is to take his share in the dissection of the back, and to proceed with the paragraphs marked for him in Chapter Y. After the back is finished, the limb is to be detached from the trunk by sawing the clavicle about the middle, and cutting through the soft parts connected with the scapula.