418 DISSECTION OF THE PERINEUM. of-external sphincter muscle. Difference in cleaning the ischio- rectal fossae Dissection ofleftischio rectal fossa. On right side, seek vessels and nerves. Situation of fossa; form; dimensions ; boundaries. Pudic ves- sels on the outer wall, of the aims, the superficial sphincter muscles may be injured with- out care, for they are close to the skin, without the intervention of fat. The dissector should trace the external sphincter to the coccyx, and forwards for a short distance beneath the skin, and define a fleshy slip on each side in front and behind to the subcutaneous fatty layer. The next step is to bring into view the ischio-rectal hollow between the side of the rectum and the tuberosity of the hip-bone. On the left side the fat is to be cleaned out of it without reference to the vessels and nerves, but on the opposite side a special dissec- tion is to be made of them. To take out the fat from the left fossa,, begin at the outer margin of the sphincter ani, and proceed forwards and backwards. In front the dissection should not extend farther than the anus, while behind it should lay bare the margin of the gluteus maximus. On the inner side of the hollow the levator ani (sometimes very pale) is to be exposed by the removal of a thin layer of areolar tissue (anal fascia.) On the outer boundary the pudic vessels and the accompanying nerves should be denuded: they lie in a canal formed by fascia, and at some distance from the surface. On the right side it is not necessary to clean the muscular fibres when following the vessels and nerves. If the student begins at the outer border of the sphincter, he will find the inferior hsemor- rhoidal vessels and nerve, which he may trace outwards to the pudic trunks ; some of the branches, which join the superficial perineal and inferior pudendal nerves, are to be followed forwards. In the posterior angle of the space seek a small offset of the fourth sacral nerve ; and external to it, branches of the perforating cutaneous nerve from the sacral plexus, with small vessels, turning round the border of the gluteus. Near the front of the fossa is the superficial perineal artery with a nerve ; and the last, after communicating with the hemorrhoidal nerve, leaves the fossa. A second perineal nerve, with a deeper position, may be found at the front of the hollow. The ischio-rectal fossa (fig. 132) is the interval between the rectum and the ischial part * of the hip-bone. It is a somewhat pyramidal hollow, which is larger behind than before, and dimin- ishes in width as it sinks on the inner side of the hip-bone. Its width is about one inch at the surface; and its depth about two inches at the outer side. It is filled by a soft granular fat. The inner or longest side of the space is very oblique, and is formed by the levator ani muscle (d), together with the coccygeus at the back ; but the outer side is vertical, and is formed by the obturator internus muscle and the fascia covering it. In front it is limited by the triangular ligament (to be afterwards seen) ; and behind are the great sacro-sciatic ligament, and the largest gluteal muscle. Towards the surface it is covered by the teguments, and is overlaid in part by the gluteus (e) and the sphincter externus (a). Vessels and nerves in the space. Along the outer wall lie the pudic vessels (a) and the perineal and dorsal divisions of the pudic nerve,