MEMBRANE OF TYMPANUM. 733 of the small bones (malleus) and some fibres of its anterior ligament, and by the anterior tympanic vessels. Crossing the membrane towards the upper part is the chorda tympani nerve, which issues through a special aperture close to the Glaserian fissure. The roof (tegmen tympani ; fig. 231, tt) is a thin plate of bone The root is separating the tympanic cavity from the cranium. It occasionally perforated, presents one or more apertures, where the mucous lining of the tympanum comes into contact with the dura mater. The floor separates the tympanum from the jugular fossa Floor is (fig. 231, jf), and is more or less excavated by small cells, which cellular- are extensions of the tympanic cavity, and lined by a prolongation of its mucous membrane. An anterior wall is present only to the lower half of the space, in front is which it separates from the carotid canal (fig. 231, cc) ; in the aperture of -i<* • i • -n ?• t Eustachian upper hall is the tympanic orifice of the Eustachian tube. tube. The posterior wall is similarly deficient in the upper half, where Behind are there is a large aperture leading into a space called the antrum antrum mastoideum (fig. 231, am), from which the mastoid cells are given masfc0ldeum off. Below this opening, but near the inner wall, and on a level with the narrow part of the promontorv, is the small conical proiec- and \ pyramid, tion of the pyramid (py). At the summit of the pyramid is a small orifice, from which a canal leads backwards and downwards to the aqueduct of Fallopius : the canal lodges the stapedius muscle, with cana Sometimes there is a slender round bar of bone connecting the of staPedlus- pyramid to the promontory (fig. 231). Some objects that have been referred to above, viz., the membrana tympani, the Eustachian tube, the mastoid cells, and the secondary tympanic membrane, require separate notice. The membrana tympani (fig. 232) is a thin translucent disc ^™Kne between the external auditory canal and the cavity of the tympanum. It is rather elliptical in shape, and its longest diameter, which is form and directed from above down, measures about two-fifths of an inch. size By its circumference it is attached to a groove at the inner end of attachment; the auditory passage. In the fetus it is supported by a separate osseous ring—the tympanic bone (fig. 232,/). The membrane is position; placed very obliquely, so that it forms an angle of about 45° with both a horizontal and a sagittal plane, the outer surface looking downwards and forwards. It is concave towards the auditory canal, is rather being sloped inwards from the circumference to the centre ; and it shaped • projects into the cavity of the tympanum. The handle of the malleus (one of the ossicles ; b) is attached to the inner side of the fixedfto it. membrane from the centre to the upper margin. Structure. The membrane is formed of three strata,—external, °°^t^ts internal, and middle. The outer one is continuous with the integu- neous, ments of the meatus auditorius; and the inner is derived from the andTflbrous mucous membrane of the tympanum. The middle layer is formed layer, of fibrous tissue, and is fixed to the groove in the bone. From its centre, where it is firmly united to the extremity of the handle of the malleus, fibres radiate towards the circumference ; and near the margin, at the inner aspect, lies a band of stronger circular fibres