152 DISSECTION OF THE TONGUE. Superficial lingualis. Use. Lower lingualis. Origin. Ending. Perpendicu- lar muscle. Use. Medulla of tongue. Mucous membrane its epithe- lium. Folds. Crypts, and glands at the base the tongue is made narrower and rounder, and is increased in length. The superior lingualis (fig. 37, a) is a very thin layer of oblique and longitudinal fibres close beneath the submucous tissue on the dorsum of the tongue. Its fibres arise from the frsenum epiglottidis, and from the fibrous tissue along the middle line ; from this attachment they are directed obliquely outwards, the anterior becoming longitudinal, to the margin of the tongue at which they end in the submucous fibrous tissue. Action. Both muscles tend to shorten the tongue ; and they will bend the point upwards. The inferior lingualis (fig. 38, d) is much stronger than the preceding, and is placed on the under surface of the tongue, between the hyo-glossus and genio-glossus. The muscle arises behind from the fascia at the root of the tongue ; and the fibres are collected into a roundish bundle : from its attached surface fasciculi are continued upwards through the transverse fibres to the dorsum ; and at the anterior third of the tongue, where the muscle is overlaid by the styloglossus, some of the fibres are applied to that muscle and distributed with it. Action. This muscle shortens the tongue, and bends the apex downwards. The intrinsic perpendicular fibres are found near the border of the fore part of the tongue, and can be seen only in transverse sections. They pass from the submucous tissue of the dorsum downwards and somewhat outwards, decussating with the cortical and transverse fibres, to the under surface. Action. By their contraction these fibres flatten and render broader the part of the tongue in which they occur. Medullary portion of the tongue. The central part of the tongue, which is thus named, is paler in colour and softer than the cortex. It is composed mainly of the bundles of the transverse muscle crossing the laminae of the genio-glossus internally and the perpen- dicular fibres externally, together with interspersed fat. The mucous membrane of the tongue is a continuation of that lining the mouth, and is provided with a stratified scaly epithelium. It invests the greater part of the tongue, and is reflected off at different points in the form of folds (p. 148). At the epiglottis are three small glosso-epiglottidean folds, connecting this body to the root of the tongue ; the central one of these is called the frmnum of the epiglottis. It is furnished with numerous glands, and lymphoid crypts and follicles. The crypts are depressions of the mucous membrane, which are surrounded by lymphoid follicles in the submucous tissue, like the arrangement in the tonsil ; they occupy the dorsum of the tongue between the circumvallate papilla? and the epiglottis, where they form a stratum close beneath the mucous membrane. The lingual glands are racemose, similar to those of the lips and > cheek, and are placed beneath the mucous membrane on the dorsum of the tongue behind the circumvallate papillae. A few are found