RECTI MUSCLES. 47 The LOWER DIVISION OF THE THIRD NERVE (fig. 12) supplies Lower three muscles in the orbit. As it enters this space, between the heads third nerve of the external rectus, it lies below the nasal, and rather above the sixth nerve. Almost immediately the nerve divides into three branches. One (5) passes to the internal, another (4) to the inferior ^vvites rectus, both entering the muscles on their ocular surfaces ; the ' third (3), the longest and most external, is continued forwards to the inferior oblique muscle, which it pierces at the hinder border. Soon after its origin the last branch communicates with the ^j^8 lenticular ganglion, forming the short root (fig. II,4) of that gan°10U' body; and it furnishes two or more filaments to the inferior rectus muscle. The sixth nerve (fig. 12, 2) lies below the other nerves, and Sixtn nerve, above the ophthalmic veins, in the interval between the heads of the external rectus. In the orbit it first lies against, and then penetrates the inner surface of the external rectus muscle. Eecti Muscles. The internal (fig. 12, d), inferior (c), and straight external recti (b), are placed with reference to the eyeball as their eyeball ° names express. They arise posteriorly from the circumference of Origin, the optic foramen by a common attachment, which partly surrounds the optic nerve. The external rectus differs from the others in having two heads : the upper one joins the superior rectus in the common origin : the lower and larger head blends on the one side with the inferior rectus in the common origin, and on the other side is attached to a bony point on the lower border of the sphenoidal fissure, near the inner end, while some of its muscular fibres are also connected with a tendinous band between the heads. All the Insertion, muscles are directed forwards, the lower also obliquely outwards, and have a tendinous insertion into the ball of the eye about a quarter of an inch from the cornea, and in front of the greatest transverse diameter of the ball. Between the heads of origin of the external rectus, the different ^et^e^ nerves before mentioned are transmitted into the orbit, viz., the outer rectus, third, the nasal branch of the fifth, and the sixth, together with the ophthalmic veins. Action. The four recti muscles, attached to the eyeball at oppo- Use of all. site sides in front of the greatest transverse diameter, are able to turn the pupil in ojDposite directions. The inner and the outer muscles move the ball horizontally inner and around a vertical axis, the former directing the pupil towards the nose and the latter towards the temple. The upper and lower recti elevate and depress the fore part of upper and the ball around a transverse axis ; but as the muscles are directed lower' obliquely outwards, the upper muscle turns the pupil up and in, and the lower muscle turns it down and in. By the simultaneous action of two contiguous recti, the ball will and two be moved to a point intermediate to that to which it would be ° directed by either muscle singly. Dissection. By opening the optic foramen, the attachment of Dissect infe- the recti muscles will be more fully laid bare. To dissect out the rior oWi<iue-