153 NERVES OF THE TONGUE. in front of the circumvallate papillae, where they project into the muscular substance. Some of their ducts open on the surface; others in the hollows around the circum vallate papillae, or into the foramen caecum and the depressions of the crypts. Opposite the circumvallate papillae, at the margin of the tongue, jf^side* is a small cluster of mucous glands. Under the tip of the tongue, and ben'eatt on each side of the fraenum, is another elongated collection of the tip. same kind of glands imbedded in the muscular fibres, from which several ducts issue. Nerves. There are three nerves on the under surface of each ^^hree half of the tongue, viz., the lingual of the fifth, the hypoglossal, and sources, the glossopharyngeal (fig. 24). The lingual nerve sends upwards filaments through the muscular ^|ual of substance to the mucous membrane of the anterior two-thirds of the tongue, and supplies the conical and fungiform papillae. Accompanying this nerve are the lingual fibres of the chorda tympani (p. 98). The hypoglossal nerve is spent in long slender offsets to the mus- twelfth, cular substance of the tongue. The glossopharyngeal nerve divides under the hyo-glossus into two and ninth, branches. One turns to the dorsum, and ramifies in the mucous membrane behind the foramen caecum, supplying also the circum- vallate papillae. The other passes to the side of the tongue, and ends in branches for the mucous membrane, extending forwards to about the middle of the border. Vessels. The arteries are derived from the lingual of each side : Aer-^gieas^d the veins pass to the internal jugular trunk (p. 96). The lymphatics lymphatics, of the tongue for the most part pass backwards to the upper deep cervical glands, and have connected with them two or three small lingual glands on the outer surface of the hyo-glossus muscle; but some descend to the submaxillary lymphatic glands. Section XVI. DISSECTION OF THE LARYNX. The larynx is the upper dilated part of the airtube, in which the voice is produced. It is constructed of several cartilages united General together by ligamentous bands ; of muscles for the movement of of larynx.10 the cartilages; and of vessels and nerves. The whole is lined by mucous membrane. Dissection. The tongue may be removed from the larynx by Dissection, cutting through its root, but this is to be done without injuring the epiglottis. The student will find it advantageous to learn the laryngeal