308 DISSECTION OF BACK OF FOREARM. and rise, radius free, and fixed. Extensor carpi radialis longior: origin; and use. Extensor carpi radialis lbrevior: origin: insertion parts around it and use. Common extensor of fingers : border touches the biceps and the pronator teres ; and the posterior is in contact with both radial extensors of the wrist. Near its insertion the supinator is covered by two extensors of the thumb. Beneath the muscle are the brachialis anticus and the musculo-spiral nerve, the extensors of the wrist, the radial vessels and nerve, and the radius. Action. The chief use of the supinator longus is to bend the elbow-joint; but if the radius is either forcibly pronated or supinated, the muscle can put the hand into a state intermediate between pro- nation and supination. If the radius is fixed, as in climbing, the muscle will bring up the humerus, bending the elbow. The extensor carpi radialis longior (b) arises from the lower third of the external supracondylar ridge of the humerus, from the front of the contiguous intermuscular septum, and from the septum between it and the next muscle. It lies on the short radial extensor, being partly covered by the supinator longus ; and its tendon passes beneath the extensors of the thumb, and the annular ligament, to be inserted into the base of the metacarpal bone of the index finger. Along its outer border lies the radial nerve. Action. The long extensor first straightens the wrist, and then bends the elbow-joint. If the hand is fixed in climbing, it will act on the humerus like the long supinator. The extensor carpi radialis brevior (c) is attached to the outer condyle of the humerus by a tendon common to it and the three following muscles, viz., common extensor of the fingers, extensor of the little finger, and ulnar extensor of the wrist ; it takes origin also from the external lateral ligament of the elbow- joint. The tendon of the muscle is closely applied to the preceding, and after passing with it through the same compartment of the annular ligament, is inserted into the base of the metacarpal bone of the middle finger. Concealed on the outer side by the two preceding muscles, this extensor rests on the radius and two of the muscles attached to it, viz., supinator brevis, and pronator teres. Along the ulnar side is the common extensor of the fingers; and the extensors of the thumb issue between the two. Both radial extensors of the carpus have usually a bursa beneath the tendon, close to the insertion. Action. This muscle acts with its fellow in extending the wrist. The extensor communis digitorum (d) is single at its origin, but is divided below into four tendons. It arises from the common tendon, from the fascia, and from aponeurotic septa between it and Extensor minimi digiti. p. Extensor carpi ulnaris. g. Anconeus, h. Ex- tensor ossis metacarpi pollicis, r. Extensor primi internodii. j. Extensor secundi internodii pollicis. k. Posterior annular ligament. L. Bands uniting the tendons of the common extensor on the back of the hand. n. insertion of the common extensor into the second and third phalanges. Arteries: a. Posterior interosseous 1. Radial. 2. Posterior carpal arch. b. Dorsal interosseous branch. 4. Dorsal branches of thumb and forefinger.