371 UPPER SURFACE OF DIAPHRAGM. muscular offsets, and becomes cutaneous by the side of the sternum. There is not any lateral cutaneous offset from this branch, except when the second nerve is not as large as usual. The second nerve may extend a considerable way on the wall of Second the chest before entering between the intercostal muscles ; and it1,erve- frequently sends upwards a branch to join the first nerve. It is remarkable in having a very large lateral cutaneous branch (p. 244). In front it ends like the others. The lower five nerves resemble the foregoing in their course and Lower five branches in the intercostal spaces : their termination in thenerves- abdominal wall is described on p. 449. Upper surface of the diaphragm. The centre of the muscle is Upper sur- tendinous, and the circumference is fleshy. In contact with the alaphragm. upper surface are the lung with the pleura on each side, and the heart and pericardium in the middle : the phrenic vessels and parts touch- nerves pierce this surface, external to the pericardium. In the dia-ing- phragm are the following apertures ;—one for the oesophagus and ^rftrtures the pneumo-gastric nerves, a second for the vena cava, a third for the aorta with the thoracic duct and the large azygos vein, and a cleft on each side for the splanchnic nerves. Beneath it the sympathetic passes into the abdomen. The arch of the diaphragm towards' the thorax has been before Curve, referred to (p. 331). Directions. The dissector of the thorax now waits while the dtesec- examination of the back is made. Afterwards he is to learn the back is now- ligaments of the ribs and spine : a notice of these will be found in made- the following Section. Section II. LIGAMENTS OF THE TRUNK. The ligaments of the vertebra?, ribs, and sternum are included in this Section. Articulations op the Ems. Each rib is united to the spinal Articuia- column at the one end, and to the costal cartilage at the other. ?ibsS°fthe Between it and the spine there are two synovial joints, and two sets of ligaments, viz., one between the head of the rib and the bodies of the vertebra?, and a second passing from the neck and tuberosity to the transverse processes of the vertebra?. The costal cartilages are connected to the sternum and to one an<i costal another by synovial joints and ligaments. cartilages. Dissection. For the purpose of examining the ligaments between To see the the ribs and the vertebra?, take a piece of the spinal column with b?ai°iiga-te three or four ribs attached. After removing the intercostal and mente> other muscles, and the loose tissue from the surface ©f the bones, the student will be able to define, as below, the ligaments passing B B 2