INTERNAL MUSCLES OF LARYNX. 157 The thyroarytenoid muscle (fig. 41) extends from the thyroid to the arytenoid cartilage ; it is thick below, but thin and expanded above. The muscle arises from the thyroid cartilage near the middle line, for about the lower half of its depth, and from the crico-thyroid membrane. The fibres are directed backwards with different inclinations :—The external (4) ascend somewhat and are inserted into the outer border of the arytenoid car- tilage. The internal fibres (8) are horizontal, and form a thick bundle which is inserted into the margins of the vocal process and the lower part of the outer surface of that car- tilage. A few of the deepest fibres of the muscle pass from the outer'surface of the vocal process of the arytenoid carti- lage to be inserted into the true vocal cord. The outer surface of the muscle is covered by the tigroid cartilage ; and the inner sur- face rests on the vocal cords, arid on the ventricle and pouch of the larynx. A ction. The thyro-arytenoid draws forwards the arytenoid cartilage, and causes the cricoid to move forwards and downwards, thus opposing the crico-thyroid muscle, and shortening the vocal cords. It also moves inwards the fore part of the arytenoid cartilage with the true vocal cord, so as to place the latter in the position necessary for vocalization. The short fibres passing from the arytenoid cartilage to the vocal cord will tighten the fore part, and relax the hinder part of the cord. The thyro-epiglottidean muscle is a thin layer which varies much in its development in different bodies. Its fibres arise from the thyroid cartilage in conjunction with the outer part of the thyro- arytenoid, and are directed upwards, covering the outer surface of the saccule of the larynx, to be inserted into the margin of the Thyroary- tenoid muscle Thyro- epiglotti- dean muscle. * Internal muscles of the larynx. 1. Crico-thyroid detached. 2. Posterior crico-arytenoid. 3. Lateral crico-arytenoid. 4. Thyro-arytenoid, superficial part. 5. Depressor of the epiglottis, consisting of fibres of the aryteno- epiglottidean muscle and others given off from the thyro-arytenoid. 6. Thyro- hyoid, cut. 8. Deep part of thyro-arytenoid.