LIGAMENTS OF CLAVICLE AJND SCAPULA. 267 A capsular ligament, connecting the outer end of the clavicle with the acromion, will be shown by taking away the fibres of the trapezius and deltoid muscles. Another strong band (coraco-acromial) passing transversely and of between the acromion and the coracoid process, and a small fasci-scapula* cuius (suprascapular ligament), placed over the notch in the superior border, are then to be defined. Ligaments of the clavicle and scapula (fig. 79). The outer Union of the end of the clavicle is connected to the scapula by a distinct joint Papula. a"d with the acromion, and by a strong ligament (coraco-clavicular) between it and the coracoid process. The coraco-clavicular ligament consists of two portions, each Coraco-cia- having a different direction and designation. vicular has The posterior piece called conoid from its shape, is fixed by a conical its apex to the posterior and inner part of the coracoid process ; and by its base to the tubercle of the clavicle, at the junction of the outer with the middle third of the bone. The anterior part (2), trapezoid ligament, is larger than the conoid ; and a square it is attached below to the inner border of the coracoid process along piece- the hinder half; and above to the line on the under surface of the clavicle, which extends outwards from the tubercle before mentioned. The two pieces of the ligament are in apposition behind, but are separated by an interval in front. Use. Both pieces of the ligament support the scapula in a state Use of liga- of rest. They serve also to restrain the rotatory movements of that ment- bone ; thus, when the acromion is rotated down, the motion is checked by the trapezoid band ; and when upwards, by the conoid piece. * Ligaments of the clavicle and scapula, and of the shoulder-joint (altered from Bourgery). 1. Conoid ligament. 2. Trapezoid ligament. 3. Coraco- acromial ligament. 4. Suprascapular ligament. 5. Capsule of shoulder- joint. 6. Tendon of long head of biceps, entering the joint. 7. Tendon of subscapularis muscle. 8. Coraco-humeral ligament. Fig, 79.*