THE SPINAL CORD AND ITS MEMBRANES. 414 White The white substance of the cord is composed chiefly of medullated substance, nerve-fibres disposed in longitudinal bundles, which are enclosed by- irregular septa of connective tissue prolonged from the pia mater on the surface. Three larger processes of the pia mater extend into the back of the cord ; these are the posterior median septum already referred to, and the posterior intermediate septum on each side, which passes forwards in the cervical region from the furrow of the same name, and separates the posterior median and postero-external columns. Grey and Modifications in the grey and white substance. The white substance white sub- stance vary. Fig. 130.* Fig. 131. f Crescents alter their shape. Vessels of the spinal canal. Source of the intra spinal arteries. much exceeds the grey in quantity in the cervical and dorsal regions ; but it is less abundant in proportion to the grey matter in the lum- bar enlargement. The grey substance is least in amount in the dorsal region. The cornua of the grey crescents decrease in length from above down, especially the posterior, and towards the end of the cord they blend in one indented or cruciform mass. Intraspinal Vessels. Arteries supply the cord and its mem- branes, and the bodies of the vertebrse. The veins form a remark- able plexus within the canal, but this will not be seen unless they have been specially injected. The intraspinal arteries (fig. 130, a) are derived from the vessels along the sides and front of the spinal column, viz., from the vertebral and ascending cervical in the neck, from the intercostal in * Intraspinal arteries in the loins (Museum of University College, London). a. Branch of a lumbar artery, b. Ascending, and c, descending offset, d. Offset to the body of the vertebra on each side. e. Central artery formed by offsets from the lateral loops. + Intraspinal veins in the loins, a. Branch to join a lumbar vein. b. Anterior longitudinal vein, one on each side. c. Veins from the bodies of the vertebrae.