DISSECTION OF THE BUTTOCK. 636 Parts covered by gluteus at its origin and inser- tion ; and by the intervening piece of the muscle. Trace .sacral nerves. The sacral nerves are united beneath gluteus: cutaneous offsets. Gluteus medius arises from hip-bone, and) inserted into tro- chanter. Relations Parts beneath the gluteus (fig. 195). At its origin the gluteus maximus rests on the pelvis, and conceals part of the ilium, sacrum and coccyx, also the ischial tuberosity with the origin of the ham- string muscles (l) and the great sacro-sciatic ligament (k). At its insertion it covers the upper end of the femur, with the great trochanter, and the origin of the vastus externus (i). Between the muscle and the trochanter is a large, loose synovial membrane ; between it and the vastus externus is another synovial sac ; and occasionally there is a third over the ischial tuberosity. In the hollow between the pelvis and the femur the muscle conceals, from above downwards, the undermentioned parts :— First, a portion of the gluteus medius (a) ; and below it the pyri- formis (b), with the superficial branch (a) of the gluteal vessels between the two. Coming from beneath the pyriformis are the inferior gluteal nerve supplying the gluteus maximus, and the large and small sciatic nerves (3, 6), with the sciatic vessels, which descend to the thigh between the great trochanter and the ischial tuberosity ; and internal to the sciatic are the pudic vessels and nerve (d, 4), and the nerve to the obturator internus muscle (5), which are directed inwards through the small sacro-sciatic foramen. Still lower down is the tendon of the obturator internus muscle (d) with a fleshy fasciculus—the gemellus (c and e)—above and below it. Next comes the thin quadratus femoris muscle (g) with the upper part of the adductor magnus (h) ; at the upper border of the quadratus is the tendon of the obturator externus (f) ; and at the lower border, between it and the adductor, issues one of the terminal branches of the internal circumflex artery (c) with its veins. Dissection. Tracing back the offsets of the sacral nerves which perforate the gluteus, and removing a fibrous stratum which covers them, the looped arrangement of the first three nerves on the great sacro-sciatic ligament will appear. Finally, the nerves may be followed inwards beneath the multifidus spinae to the posterior sacral foramina. Sacral nerves. The external pieces of the posterior primary branches of the first three sacral nerves, after passing outwards beneath the multifidus spina? (p. 402), are joined by loops on the surface of the great sacro-sciatic ligament (fig. 123). Two or three cutaneous offsets are derived from this intercom- munication, and pierce the fibres of the gluteus maximus to be distributed on the surface (p. 632). The gluteus medius (fig. 195, a) is triangular in form, with its base at the iliac crest, and apex at the femur. It arises from the outer surface of the ilium between the crest and the supe- rior curved line above, and the middle curved line below ; and many superficial fibres come from the strong fascia covering the front of the muscle. The fibres converge^to a tendon, which is inserted into an impression across the outer surface of the great trochanter, extending from the tip behind to the root in front. The superficial surface is concealed in part by the gluteus maxi-