362 DISSECTION OF THE THORAX. Airtubes in lung : mode of branching : left lung are represented on the right side by the continuation of the bronchus below the artery and the middle and lower lobes of the lung ; and that the upper lobe of the right lung with its division of the airtube have no representatives on the left side (Aeby). Bronchial branches in the lung. If the primary divisions of the bronchi be followed into the lung, they will be found to give off secondary branches ; and these, together with the smaller offsets of the air-passages, divide for the mo«t part dichotomously. The branches of the airtube within the lung are known as the bronchia structure; section. Their structure resembles that of the bronchi ; but the pieces of cartilage are irregular in shape and occur on all sides of the tube, and the muscular tissue completely surrounds the canal. The and ending, ultimate bronchial tubes are about half a line in diameter ; and each leads to a group of somewhat funnel-shaped dilatations (infundibula), which are beset with air-cells and form the lobules of the lung. Vessels are Vessels op the lung. Two sets of vessels are furnished to the two setslung, viz., the pulmonary, which bring blood to the lung to be aerated, and then return it to the heart, and the smaller bronchial, which convey the blood destined for the nutrition of the lung. The pulmonary artery divides like the bronchus, and within the lung its branches run usually on the posterior surface of the bronchial tubes, which they accompany to the lobules. The arterial branches do not anastomose together; and they end in the capillary network of the air-cells. The pulmonary veins are not so regular in their arrangement as the arteries. They arise from the network of the air-cells ; and the branches from adjoining lobules communicate freely together. The larger branches for the most part lie in front of the airtubes which they accompany. The pulmonary veins have no valves. The bronchial arteries are derived from the aorta, and enter the lung on the airtube, which they also follow in its ramifications. They distribute branches to the bronchial lymphatic glands, to the walls of the larger blood-vessels and bronchial tubes, and to the interlobular connective tissue. Other small offsets ramify on the surface of the lung beneath the pleura. On the smallest bronchial tubes minute branches anastomose with offsets of the pulmonary arteries. The bronchial veins begin by twigs corresponding with the super- ficial and deep branches of the artery, and leave the root of the lung to end in the azygos veins. Many of these veins, however, open into the pulmonary veins, both within the lung and in the root (Zuckerkandl). The lymphatics of the lung are superficial and deep : the latter accompany both the bronchia and the branches of the pulmonary vessels. All pass to the bronchial glands at the root of the lung. The nerves of the lung are derived through the pulmonary plexuses from the vagus and sympathetic, and follow the branches of the airtube. They have minute ganglia connected with their filaments. Pulmonary artery and veins Bronchial arteries Lymphatics, Pulmonary nerves.