460 DISSECTION OF THE ABDOMEN. fascia, and fascia. Lastly it is invested by the superficial fascia and the skin. In number the coverings of an internal hernia are the same as those of an external; and in kind the only differences are that the covering of transversalis fascia is not furnished by the infundibuli- form process, and the conjoined tendon is substituted for the cremas- teric fascia. The taxis. The position of the openings in the abdominal wall, and the straightness of its course, should be kept in mind during attempts to reduce this kind of hernia. How known Diagnosis. This rupture will be distinguished from external hernia n&u eXtei" by ^s straight course through the abdominal wall, and by the neck being placed close to the pubis, impossible When an inguinal hernia has attained a large size, it is impossible if it is large. ^0 by an external examination whether it began originally in the triangular space, or at the internal abdominal ring ; for as an ex- ternal hernia increases, its weight drags inwards the internal ring into a line with the external, and in this way the swelling acquires the appearance of a direct rupture. Stricture : Seat of stricture. The stricture in this form of hernia occurs most frequently outside the neck of the tumour, at the opening that has been formed in the conjoined tendon, though it may be inside from situation ; thickening of the peritoneum ; and it may occasionally be found at the external abdominal ring, to free from Division of the stricture. The neck of the tumour is to be laid stricture; Darej anc[ nDrous bands around it are to be divided without in- jury to the peritoneum; but if, after this has been done, the intes- tine cannot be put back into the abdomen, the sac is to be opened, and the internal constricting band is to be divided directly upwards on a director. ™ large In dividing the stricture on a large rupture appearing to be direct, the cut should be made directly upwards in the middle of the front of the tumour, so as to avoid the epigastric vessels, the position of which cannot be ascertained. Rarer kind Variety of internal hernia. Another kind of internal hernia(superior) hernia™31 occurs through that part of the area of the triangular space which is is oblique in external to the conjoined tendon. The intestine protrudes through wrththe ^e wa^ °^ ^e a^^omen cl°se to tne epigastric artery, and descends cord. along nearly the whole of the inguinal canal to reach the external abdominal ring ; so that the term " direct" would not apply strictly to this form of internal hernia. Coverings Coverings. As the gut traverses nearly the whole of the inguinal are same as canal, it has the same coverings as an external hernia, viz., the in external 7 . . ° . • r • hernia. skm and the superficial fascia, the spermatic and cremasteric lascise, the transversalis fascia (but not the infundibuliform fascia), and the subperitoneal fat with the peritoneum. Diagnosis Diagnosis. This form of internal hernia would be considered fn iife°SSlWe external during life from its course and its form ; and yet it must be remembered that the epigastric vessels are placed on the outer part of its neck, while in the hernia which it simulates they lie on