AUDITORY NERVE. 747 The ductus endolymphaticus is a fine tubular offset of the mem- Endo- branous labyrinth, which occupies the aqueduct of the vestibule, duethatie and ends in a dilated blind extremity (saccus endolymphaticus), and sac; embedded in the dura mater on the posterior surface of the petrous portion of the temporal bone. In the vestibule the duct divides it opens into into two small branches, one of which joins the saccule, and the other the utricle. For an account of the minute structure of the membranous labyrinth, reference must be made to a work on microscopic anatomy. saccule and utricle. Neeve op the Labyrinth. A special nerve, the eighth cranial or auditory (p. 189), is distributed to the labyrinth. Entering the internal auditory meatus with the facial nerve (p. 145), it divides into an upper smaller, and a lower larger piece, each of which again subdivides into three branches. At the bottom of the meatus, the upper piece is marked by a gang- lionic swelling—the intumescentia ganglioformis of Scarpa. The upper division of the nerve sends its branches to the macula of the utricle (fig. 241, c), to the ampulla of the superior vertical semicircular canal, and to the ampulla of the external semi- oircular canal. From the lower division of the Fig. 241. Auditory nerve offset to the lower gives nerve proceed an saccule (a) and a slender branch to the ampulla of the posterior saccule^t0 vertical semicircular canal (b) ; but the greater part is destined for posterior ,, . , v ' ' ° r canal, and tne cochlea. cochlea; Each of the branches of the auditory nerve breaks up into a ending of bundle of filaments, which pass through minute apertures of the branches ; lamina cribrosa, to reach their special part of the membranous labyrinth. The nerves of the semicircular canals enter the ampullae on their outer flattened side, and end in the crista acustica ; while those of the sacs end in the respective macula. The cochlear nerves traverse the canals of the modiolus, and bend cochlear outwards in the passages of the lamina spiralis (fig. 239,2). As they spiral aSa enter the latter, they join a ganglion (ganglion spirale) which occupies ganglion, a winding canal at the junction of the lamina spiralis with the modiolus; and from this thev are continued as fine branches, form- and end|in it i p an organ 01 mg a close plexus, to the organ of Corti. Corti. * Distribution of nerves to the membranous labyrinth (Breschet). a. Nerve to the saccule, b. Nerve entering the ampullary enlargement on the posterior semicircular canal, c. Nerve entering the utricle. The nerve to the cochlea is not represented.