448 DISSECTION OF THE ABDOMEN. Leave the left side. Rectus muscle origin from pubis ; insertion into rib- cartilages ; has cross tendons ; use on trunk, on abdomen. Its sheath : how formed its union with three or more tendinous bands across the rectus will have to be cut through; and near the pubis a small muscle, the pyramidalis, will be exposed. The dissector should leave the nerves entering the outer border of the rectus. On the left side of the body the rectus should not be laid bare below the umbilicus, in order that the special dissection of the parts concerned in inguinal hernia may be made on this side. The rectus muscle (tig. 141, a) extends along the front of the abdomen from the pelvis to the chest. It is narrowest below, where it arises from the pelvis by two tendinous pro- cesses :—one, the internal and smaller, is attached to the front of the sym- physis pubis in common with that of the opposite side; and the external process springs from the pubic crest. Becoming wider towards the thorax, the rectus is inserted by three large fleshy and tendinous slips into the cartilages of the last three true ribs, the outermost slip usually extending to the bone of the fifth rib. Some of the inner fibres are often attached to the ensiform process. The muscle is contained in an aponeurotic sheath, except above and below ; and its fibres are inter- rupted at intervals by ir- regular tendinous lines— the inscriptions tendineai. Action. It will draw down the thorax and the ribs, or raise the pelvis, according as its fixed point may be above or below. Besides imparting movement to the trunk, it will diminish the cavity of the abdomen, and compress the viscera. Sheath of the rectus (d). This sheath is derived from the splitting of the aponeurosis of the internal oblique at the outer edge of the rectus. One piece passes before, and the other behind the muscle ; and the two unite at the inner border so as to complete the sheath. Inseparably blended with the stratum in front of the rectus is the * Rectus muscle of the abdomen, dissected on the right side, and in its sheath, on the left. Close to the pelvis the pyramidalis is exposed, a. Rectus. B. Internal oblique, c. Poupart's ligament, d. Anterior layer of the sheath of the rectus.