INTERIOR OF THE PHARYNX. 125 described with the muscles of the soft palate. Its fibres appear behind those of the stylo-pharyngeus, and descend to the lower part of the pharynx, reaching backwards to the middle line. Dissection (fig. 30). Open the pharynx by an incision along the Dissection, middle, and, after removing the tow from the interior, keep it open with hooks : a better view of the cavity will be obtained by partly dividing the occipital attachment on each side. The interior of the pharynx (fig. 30) is wider from side to side interior of than from before back, and its greatest width is opposite the hyoid Pftarynx bone ; from that spot it diminishes both upwards and downwards, but much more rapidly in the latter direction. In it the following objects are to be noticed. At the top are situate the posterior apertures (o) of the nasal Objects to fossae, which are separated by the septum nasi. Below them hangs be no e' the soft palate, partly closing the opening into the mouth ; and from its free margin a prominent fold of the mucous membrane, the posterior pillar of the soft palate (l), is continued downwards and backwards on the side of the pharynx. Immediately behind each nasal aperture is the trumpet-shaped end of the Eustachian tube; and from the anterior extremity of the prominence formed by the tube, a ridge descends to join the posterior pillar of the palate. Behind the opening of the Eustachian tube the mucous membrane is prolonged into a deep recess, which corresponds to the projection of the aponeurosis of the pharynx seen externally (p. 124). On raising the soft palate, the opening into the mouth—isthmus faucium (h), is exposed, bounded laterally by a mucous fold which descends to the tongue and is named the anterior pillar of the soft palate; while between the anterior and posterior pillars on each side is a hollow containing the tonsil (k). Next in order, below the mouth, comes the aperture of the larynx (n) with the epiglottis, the valve which closes the opening during deglutition, projecting above it. Lowest of all is the opening (o) from the pharynx into the oesophagus. The apertures into the pharynx are seven in number, and have Seven aper- the following position and boundaries :— tures, viz.— The posterior openings of the nasal fossce (g) are oval in form, and Posterior measure about an inch from above down, but only half an inch nares* across. Each is constructed in the dried skull by the sphenoid, with the vomer and palate bones above, and by the palate below; by the vomer internally, and by the internal pterygoid plate on the outer side. The Eustachian tube (f) is a canal, partly osseous, partly cartila- Eustachian ginous, by which the tympanic cavity of the ear communicates with tube' the external air. If the mucous membrane be removed from the tube on the right ^ou^part side, the cartilaginous part is seen to be nearly an inch long. It is fixed above to a groove between the petrous part of the temporal and the sphenoid bones, and ends in front by a wide opening on the inner side of the internal pterygoid plate on a level with the posterior extremity of the inferior spongy bone of the nose. Its