62 DISSECTION OF THE NECK. the depressor muscles of the hyoid bone ; but beyond that spot they are covered by the superficial layers over the sj)ace, and by the sterno-rnastoid muscle which, before it is displaced, conceals the vessels as far as the parotid gland. Bifurcation. For a short distance after its exit from beneath the depressor muscles of the hyoid bone, the common carotid artery remains a single trunk; but opposite the upper border of the thyroid carti- lage it divides into two large vessels, external and internal carotid. From the place of division these arteries are continued onwards beneath the digastric and stylo-hyoid muscles to the interval between the jaw and the mastoid process. Position of At first the trunks lie side by side, the vessel destined for the to oneUnkS internal parts of the head (internal carotid) being the posterior of another. the two ; but above the digastric muscle it becomes deeper than the other. The more superficial artery (external carotid) furnishes Branches, many branches to the neck and the outer part of the head, viz., some forwards to the larynx, tongue, and face ; others backwards to the occiput and the ear ; and others upwards to the head. Changes in But the common carotid does not always divide as here said. SviSonoff -^or ^e Pomt °f branching of the vessel may be moved from the carotid. upper border of the thyroid cartilage, either upwards or down- wards, so that the trunk may remain undivided till it is beyond the hyoid bone, or end in branches opposite the cricoid cartilage. The division beyond the usual place is more frequent than the branching short of that spot. It may ascend as an undivided trunk (though very rarely) furnishing offsets to the neck and head. Jugular In close contact with the outer side of both the common and the internal carotid artery, and encased in a sheath of fascia with them, is the large internal jugular vein, which receives branches in the neck corresponding to some of the branches of the superficial artery. In some position bodies the vein covers the artery ; and the branches joining it above may form a kind of plexus over the upper end of the common carotid. thTarterie^1 Nerves in the space. In connection with the large vessels are the ' following nerves with a longitudinal direction :—On the surface of the common carotid artery, and most frequently within the sheath, lies the descending branch of the hypoglossal nerve; between the lying along artery and jugular vein is the pneumo-gastric nerve ; and behind the sheath is the sympathetic nerve. Along the outer side of the vessels the spinal accessory nerve extends for a short distance, until it pierces the sterno-mastoid muscle. themCr°SSm8 Several nerves are placed across the vessels:—thus, directed transversely over the two carotids, so as to form an arch below the digastric muscle, is the hypoglossal nerve giving off its descending branch (descendens noni). Appearing on the inner side of the carotid arteries, close to the base of the space, is the glossopharyn- geal nerve, which courses forwards between them. To the inner side of the internal carotid artery, opposite the hyoid bone, the superior laryngeal nerve comes into sight ; while a little lower down, with the descending branches of the thyroid artery, is the external laryngeal branch of that nerve.