DISSECTION OP THE UPPER LIMB. 264 Dissection to detach deltoid. Subacromial bursa. Parts covered by the deltoid. Dissection of posterior circumflex and anterior. Two circum- flex arteries anterior posterior, One circum flex nerve. which ends in deltoid : branches, articular, to teres, cutaneous. Dissection (fig. 78). The deltoid is to be divided near its origin, and is to be thrown down as far as the circumflex vessels and nerve beneath will permit. As the muscle is raised a large thick bursa between it and the upper end of the humerus comes into sight. The loose tissue and fat are to be taken away from the circumflex vessels and nerve ; and the size of the bursa having been looked to, the remains are to be removed. The insertion of the muscle should be defined. Parts covered by deltoid. The deltoid conceals the upper end of the humerus, and- those parts of the dorsal scapular muscles which are fixed to the great tuberosity. A large bursa, sometimes divided into sacs, intervenes between the great tuberosity of the humerus and the under surface of the deltoid muscle and the acromion process. Lower down are the circumflex vessels and nerve, and the upper part of the biceps muscle. In front of the humerus is the coracoid process with its muscles. Dissection. By following back the posterior circumflex vessels and nerve through a space between the humerus and the long head of the triceps (g), their connection with the axillary trunks will be arrived at. In clearing the fat from the space a branch of the nerve to the teres minor muscle is to be sought close to the border of the scapula, where it is surrounded by dense fibrous tissue. Arching outwards in front of the humerus is the small anterior circumflex artery ; this is to be cleaned. The circumflex arteries arise near the termination of the axillary trunk (p. 254) ; they are two in number, and are named anterior and posterior from their position to the humerus. The anterior branch is a small artery, which courses beneath the coraco-brachialis and biceps muscles, and ascends in the bicipital groove to the articulation and the head of the humerus : it anasto- moses with small offsets of the posterior circumflex. The posterior circumflex artery (fig. 78, a), much larger than the anterior, winds backwards through a space between the humerus and the long head of the triceps, and is distributed chiefly to the deltoid muscle, in which it anastomoses with the acromio-thoracic artery. Branches are given from it to the shoulder-joint, and to anastomose with the anterior circumflex and superior profunda arteries. It supplies offsets also to the teres minor, the long head of the triceps, and the integuments. The circumflex nerve (fig. 78,1) leaves the arm-pit with the pos- terior circumflex artery (p. 256), and bends round the neck of the humerus, beneath the deltoid muscle in which it ends. Many large branches enter the deltoid; and one or two filaments pierce the muscle and become cutaneous. Branches. As the nerve passes backwards it gives an articular filament to the under part of the shoulder-joint. Behind the humerus it furnishes a branch to the teres minor (3), which has a reddish gangliform swelling on it, and the cutaneous nerve (2) before noticed, which turns round the edge of the deltoid.