454 DISSECTION OF THE ABDOMEN. cremas- teric : muscular; Epigastric veins. Circumflex iliac artery offsets, muscular, and anasto- motic. Circumflex iliac vein. behind Poupart's ligament to the back of the pubis, where it anasto- moses with the similar branch of the opposite side, and with an offset from the obturator artery (fig. 143, /) ; the size of the last anastomosis varies much, but its situation is internal to the crural ring. b. A cremasteric branch is furnished to the muscular covering of the cord. c. Muscular branches are given from the outer side of the artery to the abdominal wall, and anastomose with the intercostal and lumbar arteries ; others enter the rectus. d. Cutaneous offsets pierce the muscle, and ramify in the integu- ments with the anterior cutaneous nerves. Two epigastric veins lie with the artery ; they join finally into one, which opens into the external iliac vein. The circumflex iliac artery arises from the outer side of the external iliac, opposite, or a little below the epigastric. It runs at first over the iliacus, close behind Poupart's ligament, in a fibrous sheath at the junction of the iliac and transversalis fasciae, and then along the inner margin of the iliac crest to about the middle, where it ends by anastomosing with the iliac branch of the ilio-lumbar artery. Branches. Near the front of the iliac crest a branch (fig. 142, b) ascends between the internal oblique and transversalis muscles, supplying them, and anastomosing with the epigastric and lumbar arteries. As the vessel extends backwards it gives lateral offsets, which supply the neighbouring muscles, and communicate on the one side with the ilio-lumbar, and on the other with the gluteal artery. The circumflex iliac vein is formed by the junction of two col- lateral branches, and crosses the external iliac artery nearly an inch above Poupart's ligament, to open into the external iliac vein. Section II. HERNIA OF THE ABDOMEN. Inguinal hernia. The dissec- tion in the left groin. Reflect internal oblique. The lower part of the abdominal wall, which has been reserved on the left side of the body, should now be dissected for inguinal hernia. Dissection. The integuments and the aponeurosis of the external oblique having already been reflected, the necessary dissection of the inguinal region will be completed by raising the internal oblique muscle as in fig. 142. To raise the oblique muscle, let one incision be made across the fleshy fibres from the iliac crest towards the linea alba; and after the depth of the muscle has been ascertained by the layer of areolar and fatty tissue beneath it, let the lowest fibres be carefully cut through at their attachment to Poupart's ligament. By lifting up