levatob.es costarum muscles. 403 tlie ribs, the ilio-costalis and longissimus dorsi, the small levatores costarum will be uncovered. The hinder part of the external inter- costal muscles will be denuded at the same time. * The levatores costarum are twelve small fan-shaped muscles, Levatores which are connected with the hinder parts of the ribs. Each, ex- costarum- cept the first, arises from the tip of the transverse process of a dorsal vertebra, and is inserted, the fibres spreading out, into the upper attach- border of the rib beneath, from the tuberosity to the angle. The ments- muscles increase in size from above down, and their fibres have the same direction as the external intercostal layer. The first is fixed above to the transverse process of the last cervical The iirst. vertebra, and below to the outer border of the first rib. Some of ^°"|£*'r the fibres of the lower muscles are continued beyond one rib to that muscles, next succeeding : these longer slips have been named levatores longiores costarum. Action. These muscles have but little influence in elevating the Use. ribs ; and their principal use appears to be in extending and bend- ing laterally the spine. * The external intercostal muscle is continued backwards Outer along the ribs as far as the tuberosity, where it joins the elevator muscle. & muscle. Beneath the muscle are the intercostal nerve and artery. Dissection. To trace the anterior and posterior primary branches Dissection of the dorsal nerves to their common trunk, the elevator of the rib and the external intercostal muscle are to be cut through in one or more spaces. The intercostal artery with its posterior branch is laid bare by this proceeding. * The dorsal nerves split in the intervertebral foramina into Dorsal nerve anterior and posterior primary branches. has * The posterior branches are directed backwards, internal to the posterior ascending costo-transverse ligament; and their distribution has been seen in the foregoing dissection. The anterior, named intercostal, are continued between the ribs to and anterioi the front of the chest : their anatomy is learnt in the dissection of branches- the thorax (p. 370) and upper limb (p. 260). * The intercostal artery has an almost exact correspondence intercostal with the dorsal nerve in its branching and distribution (p. 364). artery. d d 2