DISSECTION OF THE EAR. form and they are named superior vertical, posterior vertical, aud hori- zontal. it is not circular, but is compressed laterally, and measures about §yh of an inch, though in the ampulla the size is as large again. From a difference in the direction of the tubes, they have been named superior vertical, posterior vertical, and horizontal. The superior vertical canal (a) crosses the upper border of the petrous part of the temporal bone, and forms a projection on the surface. Its outer end is marked by the ampulla, while the inner is joined with the following. The posterior vertical canal (6) is directed backwards from its junction with the preceding to- wards the posterior surface of the temporal bone ; it is the longest of all, and has its am- pulla at the lower end. The horizontal canal (c) has separate apertures, and is the shortest of the three. Deeper in position than the superior vertical, it lies in the substance of the bone nearly on a level with the fenestra ovalis; its dilated end is at the outer side close above that aperture. Lining membrane of the osseous labyrinth. A thin fibrous periosteal membrane lines the vestibule and the semicircular canals, and is continuous with the fibrous process in the aqueduct of the vestibule. On the outer wall of the cavity it stretches over the fenestra ovalis ; and in front it is prolonged into the cochlea through the aperture of the scala vestibuli (fig. 236, g). The space between the periosteum and contains and the membranous labyrinth is occupied by a thin fluid—liquor a fluid. Cotunnii or perilymph, which also fills the scalse of the cochlea. Cochlea. This part of the osseous labyrinth has a position anterior to the vestibule, and has received its name from its resem- blance to a spiral shell. Dissection. To obtain a view of the cochlea it will be needful to cut or file away the bone between the promontory of the tympanum and the internal auditory canal on the preparation before used for displaying the vestibule ; or this section may be made on another temporal bone in which the semicircular canals are not laid bare. For the like dissection in the recent state, a softened bone should be used. The cochlea (fig. 238) is conical in form, and is placed almost horizontally in front of the vestibular space. The base of this body Fibrous membrane lines the labyrinth, Cochlea: dissection for it in dry aud recent bone; form and situation * Representation of the semicircular canals enlarged (from a model in University College Museum), a, Upper vertical ; b, posterior vertical ; and c, horizontal canal, d. Common opening of the two vertical canals, e. Part of the vestibular cavity. /. Opening of the aqueduct of the vestibule.