DISSECTION OF THE PERINEUM. 426 insertion by three parts; surrounds the urethra voluntary and involun tary. Transversus perinei: origin ; ends in central point; Accessory transverse muscle. A triangular space be- tween the three muscles: the knife may enter in litho- tomy. Perineal nerve has cutaneous, muscular, and genital branches. Dissection of triangular ligament. lower surface of the triangular ligament. The anterior fibres, which are the longest and best marked, are inserted into the penis on its outer aspect, in front of the erector ; and, according to .Kobelt, they send a tendinous expansion over the dorsal vessels of the penis. The intervening fibres turn round the urethra, sur- rounding it for two inches, and join their fellows in a common tendon. The ejaculator muscle covers the bulb and the corpus spongiosum for nearly three inches below and in front of the triangular liga- ment. If the muscle be cut through on the left side, and turned off the urethra, the junction with its fellow above that tube will be apparent. Action. The two halves, acting as one muscle, can diminish the urethra, and eject forcibly its contents. During the flow of fluid in micturition the fibres are relaxed, but they come into use at the end of the process, when the passage has to be cleared. The action is involuntary in the emission of the semen. The transversus perinei (fig. 133, c) is a small thin muscle, which lies across the perineum opposite the base of the triangular ligament. Arising from the inner side of the ischial tuberosity at the fore part, it is inserted into the central point of the perineum with the muscle of the opposite side, and with the sphincter ani and the ejaculator urinse. Behind this muscle the superficial fascia curves round to join the triangular ligament. Action. From the direction of the fibres the muscle will draw backwards the central point of the perineum, and help to fix it pre- paratory to the contraction of the ejaculator. Sometimes there is a second small fleshy slip in front of the transversalis, which has been named transversalis alter; this throws itself into the ejaculator muscle. The three muscles above described, when separated from each other by the dissection, limit a triangular space, of which the ejacu- lator urinse forms the inner boundary, the erector penis the outer side, and the transversus perinei the base. In the area of this interval is the triangular ligament of the urethra, with the super- ficial perineal vessels and nerves. The knife entering the posterior part of this space during the deeper incisions in the lateral operation of lithotomy will divide the transverse muscle and artery, and probably the superficial perineal vessels and nerves. The perineal division of the pudic nerve (p. 421) breaks up in the fore part of the ischio-rectal fossa into superficial and deep branches. Its two superficial offsets have been followed to the scrotum (p. 424). The deep branches are muscular to the fore parts of the external sphincter and levator ani, to the transversus jDerinei, erector penis, and ejaculator urinse, and the nerve to the bulb, a long slender branch, which pierces the last muscle and, dividing into filaments, enters the hinder portion of the corpus spongiosum. Dissection (fig. 134). For the display of the triangular ligament, the muscles and the crus penis, which are superficial to it, are to be detached on the left side in the following way ;—the ejaculator urinae