INTERNAL OBLIQUE MUSCLE. 445 split to encase the rectus; but in the lower half of the space between the umbilicus and pubis it is undivided, and lies altogether in front of that muscle. Along the middle line the two layers are united together, as well as with those of the opposite side, in the linea alba. Superiorly it is arranged in the following manner :— for a short distance before it divides, the aponeurosis is fixed to the ninth costal cartilage ; and the posterior layer continues this attach- ment along the eighth and seventh cartilages to the ensiform process; while the anterior layer is prolonged over the chest, being blended with the aponeurosis of the external oblique. Inferiorly its fibres become more distinct and separate from each other, and Fig- 139.* are inserted into the front of the pubis, and into the pec- tineal line for half an inch behind the attachment of Gimbernat's ligament. Relations. The internal is covered by the external ob- lique muscle. It is attached on all sides, except between Poupart's ligament and the pubis, where it arches over the cord, and has the cre- master muscle contiguous to it. The parts covered by the internal oblique will be seen when the muscle is reflected. Action. Both muscles will depress the ribs, and will assist in forcing back the viscera of the belly, which have been protruded by the descent of the diaphragm. One muscle may incline the body laterally ; and con- tracting with the opposite external oblique (the fibres of the two having the same direction) it will rotate the trunk to the same side. The cremaster muscle (fig. 139, d) is a muscular slip which lies along the lower border of the internal oblique, and is named from suspending the testicle. The muscle has attachments, at the inner and outer sides, similar to those of the lowest fibres of the internal oblique. Externally it is fleshy, and arises from Poupart's ligament below, and in part beneath the internal oblique, with which some of the fibres are connected. Internally it is narrow, and is except below ; attachments to chest, and pelvis. Use of both muscles, of one. Cremaster muscle: attach- ments ; external fleshy, * View of the lower part of the internal oblique, with the cremaster muscle and the testicle. A. External oblique, reflected, b. Internal oblique, c. Rectus abdominis, d. Cremaster, with its loops over the spermatic cord and the testicle.