DISSECTION OF UPPER LIMB. Humerus. The fibres diverge, and are inserted in this way :—The anterior, which are the strongest, are fixed to the edge of the eoro- noid process; the posterior are attached to the side of the olecranon; and a few middle fibres join a transverse band over the notch between the olecranon and the coronoid process. The ulnar nerve is in contact with the ligament; and vessels enter Fig. 94.* the joint by the aperture beneath the transverse band. The anterior ligament is thin, and its fibres are separated by intervals in which masses of fat are lodged. By its upper edge the ligament is at- tached to the front of the humerus, and by its lower to the front of the coronoid process and the orbicular ligament. The brachialis anticus muscle covers it. The posterior ligament is much thinner and looser than the anterior, and is covered com- pletely by the triceps muscle. Superiorly it is attached to the humerus above the fossa for the olecranon ; and inferiorly it is inserted into the olecranon. Some few fibres are transverse be- tween the margins of the fossa before mentioned. Dissection. Open the joint by an incision across the front near the humerus, and disarticulate the bones, in order that the articular surfaces may be seen. The synovial membrane of the joint passes from one bone to another along the deep surface of the connecting ligaments. It is continued downwards on the inner surface of the orbicular ligament, and serves for the joint of the head of the radius with the small sigmoid cavity of the ulna. Articular surfaces. The articular surface of the lower end of the humerus is divided into two parts for the bones of the forearm. That for the radius, on the outer side, forms a rounded eminence (capitellum) which is con- fined to the front of the bone. The surface in contact with the ulna (trochlea) is limited internally and externally by a promi- nence, and hollowed out in the centre. On the front of the humerus above the articular surface are two depressions which re- ceive the coronoid process and the head of the radius during flexion of the joint ; and on the posterior aspect is a large fossa for the recep- tion of the olecranon in extension of the joint. On the end of the ulna the articular surface of the great sigmoid cavity is narrowed in the centre, but expanded above and below (fig. 95). A median ridge, which is received into the hollow of the trochlea, extends from the upper to the lower end of the fossa ; and * The ligaments of the elbow-joint, and of the radius and ulna (Bourgery.) 1. Capsule of the elbow-joint. 2. Oblique ligament. 3. Interosseous membrane. 4. Aperture for blood-vessels. 5. Tendon of the biceps.