DISSECTION OF THE BRAIN. 182 from the nervous substance, the intervals between the vessels being closed by connective tissue so as to form a continuous membrane. From its deep aspect minute and very numerous vessels pass into the brain perpendicularly to the surface. Vessels and Vessels and nerves. The arachnoid has no vessels, but various membranes, anatomists have described minute branches of some of the cranial nerves in the membrane. The sources of the vessels of the pia mater are given below, and its nerves, which are probably destined for the vessels, come from several cranial nerves and the sympathetic. Dissection of Dissection. To follow out the arteries, let the brain remain upside arteries down, and let the arachnoid membrane be removed from them. Having displayed the trunks of the vertebral arteries on the medulla oblongata, and those of the carotid near the median fissure of the of large large brain, the student should lay bare on one side the branches to the large brain. Define first the two arteries (anterior cerebral) lying in the median fissure and joining by a short branch ; next, an artery that passes outwards in the fissure of Sylvius (middle cere- bral), and pursue it to the outer surface of the hemisphere. Look then for a much smaller vessel (choroid), which sinks into the brain on the outer side of the crus cerebri. By gently raising the cere- bellum on the same side, the last artery of the cerebrum (posterior cerebral) may be traced back to the inner part of the hemisphere, and of small Two principal arteries pass to the small brain. One on the upper surface (superior cerebellar) may be brought into view with the slender fourth nerve by its side on raising the cerebellum. The other artery (inferior cerebellar) turns backwards from the vertebral to the median groove, and may be easily followed. Arteries of Arteries op the Brain (fig. 52). The brain is supplied with the brain. blood by the vertebral and internal carotid arteries. Vertebral The vertebral artery (12) is a branch of the subclavian trunk (p. 69), and enters the skull through the foramen magnum; directed ends in upwards and forwards round the medulla oblongata, it blends with basilar, ^g fe]jow in a common trunk (basilar) at the lower border of the winds round pons. As the vessel winds round the medulla oblongata, it lies oblongata between the roots of the suboccipital and hypoglossal nerves ; but it is afterwards internal to the latter. Branches Branches. Between its entrance into the spinal canal and its termi- nation, each artery furnishes offsets to the dura mater, to the spinal cord, and to the cerebellum, to dura The posterior meningeal branch leaves the vertebral trunk oppo- mater; sj£e ^he foramen magnum, and ramifies in the dura mater lining the cerebellar fossa of the occipital bone, to spinal The posterior spinal branch is of inconsiderable size, and arises cord, opposite the back of the medulla oblongata : it descends along the posteriorand side of the cord, behind the nerves, and anastomoses with its fellow, and with branches that enter by the intervertebral foramina, anterior; c. The anterior spinal branch (13) is small like the preceding, and springs from the trunk opposite the front of the medulla. It joins the corresponding twig of the opposite side, and the resulting vessel is continued along the middle of the cord on the anterior aspect.