SEREATUS MAGNUS MUSCLE. 257 Fig. 75.' The serratus magnus muscle (fig. 75) extends from the side of the chest to the base of the scapula. It arises from the upper eight or nine ribs by as many slips or digitations, and passes back- wards, diminishing in breadth, to be inserted into the whole length of the base of the scapula on the ventral aspect. From a difference in the arrangement of the slips, the muscle is divided into three parts :— The upper part is formed by the first digitation, which is thicker than the others, and springs from the first and second ribs, as well as from a tendinous arch between them : it is in- serted into an impression in front of the upper angle of the scapula. The middle part is thin, and comprises two digitations, which spread out from the second and third ribs to the verte- bral border of the scapula. The lower part is the strongest, and consists of the remaining five or six slips, which converge from their ribs (fourth to eighth or ninth) to a special sur- face on the ventral aspect of the lower angle of the scapula. The serratus is in great part concealed by the pec- toral muscles, the axillary vessels and nerves, and the scapula with the subscapularis and latissimus dorsi muscles. Its deep surface rests against the ribs and the intercostal muscles. The lower slips interdigitate with like processes of the external oblique muscle. Action. The whole muscle acting, the scapula is carried forwards. But the lower and stronger fibres can move forwards the lower angle, so as to rotate the bone, and turn the glenoid cavity upwards. The lowest slips may raise the ribs in forced inspiration. Dissection. The intercostal muscles will be brought into view by detaching the processes of the serratus from the ribs for a couple of inches, and by taking away the loose tissue on the surface. At the front of the chest a thin aponeurosis is continued forwards from each external intercostal to the sternum; this is to be left in the third space. Some of the lateral cutaneous nerves should be preserved. The intercostal muscles form two layers in each space, but neither occupies the whole length of the interval. The direction of the fibres is different in the two, those of the external muscle run- Serratus magnus: origin ; insertion. Three parts to the muscle. Relations. Use. Dissection of the inter- costal muscles. Intercostal muscles are two layers. View of the serratus magnus muscle, a.