THE OSSEOUS COCHLEA. 743 is turned to the meatus auditorius interims, and is perforated by small apertures ; while the apex is directed to the inner wall of the tympanum, opposite the canal for the tensor muscle. Its length is size; about a quarter of an inch, and its width at the base is about the same. Resembling a spiral shell, the cochlea consists of a tube resembles wound round a central part or axis ; but it differs from the shell in fns™l^g8*1611 having its tube subdivided by a partition. respects. The axis or modiolus (fig. 238, a) is the central stem which sup- Central ports the windings of the spiral tube. Conical in shape, its size j^f1 or Fig. 238.* diminishes rapidly towards the last half turn of the tube, but it enlarges at the tip of the cochlea, forming a second small cone (6), which is bent. The axis is perforated by canals as far as the con- tracted part in the last half-turn, and the central one is larger than the others ; these transmit vessels and nerves in the fresh state. The spiral tube forms two turns and a half round the stem, and terminates above in a closed extremity named the cupola. When measured along the outer side, it is about one inch and a half long. Its diameter at the beginning is about one-tenth of an inch, but it diminishes gradually to half that size towards the opposite end. Of the coils that the tube makes, the first is much the largest ; this projects towards the tympanum, and gives rise to the eminence of the promontory on the inner wall of that cavity. The second turn is included within the first coil. The last half-turn bends sharply round, and presents a free margin (b)—the edge of the axis. In the recent bone the tube is divided into two main passages (scalse) by the septum (fig. 238, c). In the dry bone a remnant of this partition is seen in the form of a thin osseous plate—lamina spiralis, projecting from the axis. Septum of the spiral tube (fig. 239). The partition in the * Section through the cochlea (Breschet). a. Branches of the auditory nerve, contained in the canals of the axis. b. Enlarged* upper end of the axis. c. Septum of the cochlea, e. Membrane of Reissner. /. Hiatus or helicotrema. s.t. Scala tympani. s.v. Scala vestibuli. s.m. Scala media or canal of the cochlea. is conical, and porous A spiral tube, closed at one end, forms 2| turns ; measure- ment ; coils. Tube divided into two. Septum bony and membra-