458 DISSECTION OF THE ABDOMEN. How to dis- tinguish it. The taxis. Stricture: where situate; two kinds. To set free external, and internal stricture. Two varieties. Congenital hernia : how con- stituted ; coverings and course diagnosis ; stricture. Infantile hernia: how con- stituted ; \osis. If the hernia is small, and is confined to the wall of the belly, it gives rise to an elongated swelling along the inguinal canal. If it has proceeded farther, and entered the scrotum, it forms a flask-shaped tumour with the large end below, and the narrow neck occupying the inguinal passage. While efforts are being made to put back a piece of protruded intestine during life, the direction of the canal, and the situation of the internal abdominal ring, should be borne in mind. Seat of stricture. The protruded intestine may be constricted at the internal abdominal ring, in the inguinal canal by the fleshy internal oblique muscle, or at the external abdominal ring. The stricture is placed usually at the internal abdominal ring, and may be produced either by a constricting fibrous band outside the narrowed neck of the tumour, or by a thickening and contraction of the peritoneum itself at the inner surface of the neck. Division of stricture. To set free the intestine, an incision is made down to the internal abdominal ring ; and, all fibrous bands outside the peritoneum being divided, the intestine is to be returned if possible into the abdomen by gentle pressure. Supposing the intestine cannot be replaced in the abdomen after the previous steps have been taken, the surgeon proceeds to lay open the peritoneum, and to divide the internal stricture, from within out, on a director placed beneath it. With the view of avoiding the surrounding vessels, the cut is directed upwards on the front and mid-part of the hernia. Varieties of external hernia. There are two varieties (congenital and infantile) of oblique inguinal hernia, which are distinguished by the condition of the peritoneal covering. Congenital hernia. This kind is found for the most part in the infant and the child, though it may occur in the adult male. In it the tube of peritoneum (processus vaginalis), which receives the testicle in the foetus, remaining unclosed, the intestine descends into a sac already formed for its reception. As it follows the course of the inguinal canal, it will possess the coverings before enumerated for the external hernia ; and it passes at the first to the bottom of the scrotum, instead of being arrested at the top of the testis. With care it may be distinguished, while it is of moderate size, by its position in front of the testicle. For the seat, cause, and division of the stricture, refer to what is before stated for external hernia. Infantile or encysted hernia is much rarer than congenital, and cannot be distinguished from the common external hernia during life. It was first recognised in the young child, and received its name of infantile from that circumstance ; but it may be met with at any period of life. This form of hernia occurs when the foetal processus vaginalis of the peritoneum is closed only in the neighbourhood of the internal abdominal ring, instead of being obliterated from that point down to the testicle, so that a large serous sac will be situate in front of