PER0NE1 MUSCLES. 691 with the peroneus brevis, and is surrounded by a single synovial membrane common to both. The extensor longus digitorum and the soleus are fixed to the fibula in front of, and behind it respec- tively. Action. With the foot free, the muscle extends the ankle ; then use on foot, it can depress the inner, and raise the outer border of the foot in ' the movement of eversion. When the foot rests on the ground, it assists to lift the os calcis and fixed; and the weight of the body, as in standing on the toes, or in walk- on the leS- ing. And in rising from a stooping posture it draws back the fibula. The peroneus brevis (fig. 205, h) reaches the outer side of the Peroneus foot, and is smaller and deeper than the preceding muscle. It attached to arises from the outer surface of the shaft of the fibula for about the fiDula> lower two-thirds, extending upwards by a pointed piece in front of the peroneus longus ; and from the intermuscular septum on each side. Its tendon passes with that of the peroneus longus beneath the external annukr ligament, and is placed next the fibula as it turns below this bone. Escaped from the ligament, the tendon and fifth . . metatarsal enters a distinct fibrous sheath, which conducts it along the tarsus bone ; to its insertion into the tuberosity at the base of the metatarsal bone of the little toe. In the leg the muscle projects in front of the peroneus longus. relations; On the outer side of the os calcis it is contained in a sheath above the tendon of the former muscle ; and each sheath is lined by a prolongation from the common synovial membrane behind the outer ankle. Action. If the foot is unsupported, this peroneus extends the frseeeon foot' ankle, and moves the foot upwards and outwards in eversion. Like the long muscle, it is able if the foot is supported to raise and fixed '■> the heel, and to bring back the fibula as the body rises from stoop- on the leg. ing. Section YII. LIGAMENTS OF THE KNEE, ANKLE, AND FOOT. Directions. In examining the remaining articulations of the limb, Examine the student may take first the knee-joint, unless this has become knee-joint, dry; in that case the ligaments of the leg, ankle-joint, and foot may be dissected while the knee is being moistened. Dissection. For the preparation of each ligament of the knee- Dissection joint, it is sufficient to detach the muscles and tendons from around to see kuee' it, and to remove the areolar tissue or fibrous structure which may obscure or conceal the ligamentous band. A kind of aponeurotic capsule, capsule is to be defined on the front of the joint; and some tendons, and namely, those of the biceps, popliteus, adductor magnus, and semi- membranosus, are to be followed to their insertion, a part of each being left. y y 2