DISSECTION OF THE LEG. 688 position of veins and nerve : brandies :- Muscular. Cutaneous. Recurrent. Malleolar ; internal, and external. Dorsal artery : extent and course : relations ; position of veins and by the fleshy bellies of the contiguous muscles, so that it is at some depth from the surface ; but it is placed in front of the tibia and the ankle-joint in the lower third, and is comparatively superficial between the tendons of the muscles. Vense comites entwine around the artery, covering it very closely with cross branches in the upper part. The anterior tibial nerve approaches the tibial vessels in the upper third of the leg, and con- tinues with them, lying along their anterior aspect : at the lower end of the artery the nerve is on the outer side. Branches. In its course along the front of the leg the anterior tibial artery furnishes numerous muscular and cutaneous branches; and near the knee and ankle the following named branches take origin :— a. The anterior tibial recurrent artery is given off as soon as the vessel appears through the interosseous membrane, and ascend- ing through the tibialis anticus, ramifies over the outer tuberosity of the tibia, where it anastomoses with the other articular arteries. b. Malleolar branches (internal and external) arise near the ankle- joint, and are distributed over the ends of the tibia and fibula. The internal is the smaller, and less constant in origin ; it anastomoses with twigs of the posterior tibial artery. The external communi- cates with the anterior peroneal artery (p. 668). The dorsal artery of the foot is the continuation of the an- terior tibial, and extends from the front of the ankle-joint to the posterior part of the first interosseous space : at this interval it passes- downwards between the heads of the first dorsal interosseous muscle,, to end in the sole (p. 680). The artery rests on the inner part of the tarsus, viz., the astraga- lus, the navicular, and middle cuneiform bones ; and it is covered by the integuments and the deep fascia, and by the inner piece of the extensor brevis muscle. The tendon of the extensor hallucis lies on the inner side, and that of the extensor longus digitorum on the outer, but neither is close to the vessel. The veins have the same position with respect to the artery as in Varieties in dorsal artery. Peculiarities. On the dorsum of the foot the artery is often removed farther- outwards than the line from the centre of the ankle to the back of the first interosseous space. The dorsal artery may also be reinforced or replaced by a large anterior peroneal branch. Branches:— Branches. Small offsets are given to the integuments, and the bones and ligaments of the inner side of the foot ; from the outer side of the vessel proceed two larger branches named tarsal and metatarsal ; and an interosseous branch is furnished to the first metatarsal space. Tarsal. The tarsal branch arises opposite the head of the astragalus, and runs beneath the extensor brevis digitorum to the outer border of the foot, where it divides into twigs that inosculate with the meta- tarsal, external plantar, and anterior peroneal arteries: it supplies offsets to the extensor muscle beneath which it lies.