GREY SUBSTANCE OF CORD. 413 commissural or connecting piece between them. The same cut demonstrates the existence of a mass of grey matter in the interior, which is arranged in the form of two crescents (one in each half), united by a cross piece, and surrounded by white substance. The commissure consists of two parts, viz., a transverse band of The com- , mis sure * grey matter (fig. 128, h), with a white stratum in front. The grey transverse band (posterior or grey commissure) connects the p^tgrey opposite crescents, and is placed rather nearer the front than the with' back of the cord. In its centre is the shrunken canal of the its central spinal cord (fig. 128, i), which is best seen in the foetus. It an reaches the whole length of the medulla, and a cross section of the cord shows it as a round spot. Above, the canal opens on the floor of the fourth ventricle ; and below, it is continued into the filum terminale. It is lined by a columnar ciliated epithelium, and is lined by obstructed by a granular material near the upper end. epithelium, The anterior or white commissure is best marked opposite the en- p^twhite largements on the cord, and is least developed in the dorsal region. The half of the medulla. In the half of the cord, as in the com- The half of missure, grey and white portions exist; the former is elongated from e cor before back, being crescentic in shape as before said, and is quite surrounded by the latter. The grey crescent (fig. 128, gr) has its extremities or cornua directed The grey towards the roots of the nerves, and the convexity to the middle line. The pig. 129.* crescentic masses in the opposite halves of the cord are united by the grey com- iy*% missure. imlK The posterior cornu is long and slender dj k& I <M(f Posterior (fig. 129), and reaches nearly to the cornu: surface along the lateral fissure. It is -H ยฃ^\{~k & ยง rather narrow at its base (cervix ; 7), and hr ^ enlarged towards its extremity (caput; 1), ' ^ its parts where it is surmounted by a semi-trans- parent layer which has been named the substantia gelatinosa (3). There is also on the inner side of the cervix of the posterior cornu a special portion of grey matter containing nerve-cells, the posterior vesicular column of Clarke (8), which is most developed in the lower dorsal region. The. anterior cornu (fig. 129,2) is shorter and thicker than the Anterior posterior, and projects towards the anterior roots without reaching cornu' the surface. Its end has an irregular or zigzag outline. A third smaller projection of the grey matter is seen in the upper Inter- part of the dorsal region of the cord, on the outer side of the crescent, ^olltl between the anterior and posterior horns : this is known as the inter- mediate process (Gowers) or the lateral cornu (fig. 129,6). * Outline of the grey substance in the spinal cord, near the middle of the dorsal region (Lockhart Clarke). 1. Caput cornu posterioris. 2. Anterior cornu. 3. Substantia gelatinosa. 4. Central canal of the cord. 5. Posterior commissure. 6. Intermediate process. 7. Cervix cornu posterioris. 8. Pos- terior vesicular column.