452 DISSECTION OF THE ABDOMEN. spermatic fascia from the external oblique muscle, and lastly the superficial fascia and the skin, in female The round ligament, or the suspensory cord of the uterus, occupies mentis1 fn' mguma^ caiial in the female, and ends in the integuments of the place of groin. Its coverings are similar to those of the spermatic cord, ex- cord' cept that it wants the cremaster. Dissection. Dissection. The constituents of the cord will be displayed by cutting through longitudinally, and turning aside the different sur- rounding layers, and removing the areolar tissue. The dissector should trace branches of the genito-crural nerve and epigastric artery into the cremasteric covering. Constitu- Vessels and nerves of the cord. In the cord are collected together cord °f thC the spermatic artery and veins, which convey the blood to and from the testicle, the nerves and lymphatics of the testicle, and the vas deferens or the efferent duct. Vessel in In the female a branch from the ovarian artery enters the round female- ligament. Vas defe- The vas deferens reaches from the testicle to the urethra, and is rens : placed behind the other constituents of the cord ; it will be recog- nised by its resemblance in feel to a piece of whipcord, when it is situation taken between the finger and the thumb. As it enters the abdomen and course, through the opening in the transversalis fascia (internal ring), it lies on the inner side of the vessels of the testicle ; and as it begins its descent to the pelvis, it winds behind the epigastric artery. Artery and Cremasteric artery and nerve. The cremasteric covering of the cord coverings^ ^as a seParate artery and nerve. The artery is derived from the epi- the cord; gastric, and is distributed to the coverings of the cord. The genital branch of the genito-crural nerve enters the cord by the internal abdo- minal ring, and ends in the cremaster muscle, and cuta- Cutaneous vessels and nerves are supplied to the integuments neous. covering the cord from the superficial pudic artery and the ilio- inguinal nerve. Dissection Dissection. By cutting through the spermatic cord near the pubis, ofdeeP arch and raising it towards the internal abdominal ring, a fibrous band below Poupart's ligament, the deep crural arch, will appear; it passes inwards to the pubis, and is to be defined with some care, and of the The remaining vessels of the abdominal wall, viz., the epigastric thTwaii'of anc^ circnmflex iliac, and the ending of the internal mammary abdomen, artery, are to be next dissected. The epigastric and mammary arteries will be found on raising the outer edge of the rectus, one above and the other below, ramifying in the muscle. The epigastric, with its earliest branches, may be traced by removing the transversalis fascia from it near Poupart's ligament. The circumflex iliac artery lies behind the outer half of Poupart's ligament, and should be pursued along the iliac crest to its ending. Deep crural Deep crural arch. Below the level of Poupart's ligament is a thin arch: band of transverse fibres over the femoral vessels, which has re- ceived the name deep crural arch from its position and resemblance attach- to the superficial crural arch (Poupart's ligament). This fasciculus ments. 0f fibres, beginning about the centre of the ligament, is prolonged