660 DISSECTION OF THE LEG. Take away the skin, seek cu- taneous nerves in the fat. Superficial fascia. Two super- ficial veins. Internal saphenous. External saphenous. Cutaneous arteries. Cutaneous nerves. Internal saphenous: termination. External saphenous: origin; ending; brandies. Branches of table ; and the muscles of the calf are to be put on the stretch by fastening the foot. Dissection. For the removal of the skin, one cut may be made along the middle of the leg to the sole of the foot, where a trans- verse incision is to be carried over the heel. The two resulting flaps of skin may be raised,—the outer one as far as the fibula, and the other as far as the inner margin of the tibia. In the fat the cutaneous nerves and vessels are to be followed. On the inner side, close to the tibia, is the internal saphenous vein with the nerve of the same name, together with twigs of the internal cutaneous near the knee. In the centre of the leg lies the external saphenous vein, with the small sciatic nerve as its companion above, and the external saphenous nerve below the middle of the leg. On the outer side cutaneous offsets of the external popliteal nerve will be met with. The superficial fascia, or the fatty layer of the back of the leg, is least thick over the tibia. Along the line of the superficial vessels it may be separated into two layers. Superficial Veins. Two veins appear in the dissection of the back of the leg, which are named saphenous—inner and outer. The internal saphenous vein (fig. 204, d) begins in an arch on the dorsum of the foot (p. 682). Ascending along the leg in front of the inner ankle, and then behind the inner edge of the tibia, it reaches the thigh (p. 602). In the leg the vein is joined by super- ficial branches, and by deep roots from the tibial veins. The external saphenous vein (fig. 203, c) begins at the outer end of the arch on the dorsum of the foot, and appears below the outer ankle. The vein then courses along the back of the leg to the ham, where it ends in the popliteal vein. It receives large branches about the heel, and others on the back of the leg, communicating with the internal saphenous. Cutaneous arteries accompany the superficial veins and nerves of the leg. Cutaneous Nerves (fig. 203). The nerves in the fat of the back of the leg are prolongations of branches already met with, viz., the internal and external saphenous, external popliteal, small sciatic, and internal cutaneous of the thigh. The internal saphenous nerve (fig. 203,7) accompanies the vein of the same name beyond the knee (p. 623), and terminates at the middle of the inner border of the foot. In the leg the nerve gives off lateral cutaneous offsets, the largest of which turn over the tibia to the anterior aspect. The EXTERNAL 01' SHORT SAPHENOUS NERVE (fig. 203,5) is formed by the union of the tibial and peroneal communicating branches (p. 649), usually about the middle of the leg. It rims with tin- external saphenous vein below the outer ankle, and ends by supply- ing the outer side of the foot and little toe. It furnishes twigs to the skin of the lower part of the back of the leg, and large branches over the heel. Cutaneous nerves of the external popliteal. In