163 HYOID BONE. Section XVII. HYOID BONE, CARTILAGES AND LIGAMENTS OF THE LARYNX, AND STRUCTURE OF THE TRACHEA. Dissection. All the muscles and the mucous membrane are to be Dissection, taken away so as to denude the hyoid bone, the cartilages of the larynx, and the epiglottis ; but the membrane joining the hyoid bone to the thyroid cartilage, and the ligaments uniting one cartilage to another on the left side, should not be destroyed. In the aryteno-epiglottidean fold, of mucous membrane, a small cartilaginous body (cuneiform) may be recognised; an oblique whitish projection indicates its position. The hyoid bone (fig. 43) is situate between the larynx and the Hyoid bone, root of the tongue. Resembling the letter U placed horizontally, Form, and with the legs turned backwards, it offers for examination a central part or body, and two lateral pieces or cornua on each side. The body (g) is elongated transversely, in which direction it Body measures about an inch, and flattened from before back. The anterior surface is convex, and marked in the centre by a tubercle, on each side of which is an impression for muscular attachment. The posterior surface is concave and smooth. To the upper border the hyo-glossal membrane, fixing the tongue, is attached. The cornua are two in number on each side—large and small. Cornua, The large comu (h) continues the bone backwards, and is joined to large the body by an intervening piece of cartilage, or in old persons by continuous bony union. The surfaces of this cornu look rather upwards and downwards; and the size decreases from before back- wards. It ends posteriorly in a tubercle. The small cornu (j) is and small, directed upwards from the point of union of the great cornu with the body, and is joined by the stylo-hyoid ligament: it is seldom wholly ossified. It is united to the body of the bone by a synovial joint, with a surrounding capsule. Cartilages op the Larynx (fig. 43). There are four large in larynx cartilages in the larynx, by which the vocal cords are supported, fourlar»e viz., the thyroid, the cricoid, and the two arytenoid. In ad- dition there are some yellow fibro-cartilaginous structures, viz., and some the epiglottis, a capitulum to each arytenoid cartilage, and a small f™es! °artl" ovalish piece (cuneiform) in each aryteno-epiglottidean fold of mucous membrane. The thyroid cartilage (b) is the largest of all: it forms the Thyroid front of the larynx, and protects the vocal apparatus as with a shield. eai'tllase The upper part of the cartilage is considerably wider than the lower, and in consequence of this form the larynx is somewhat funnel-shaped. The fore part is prominent in the middle line in is convex in front, forming the subcutaneous swelling named pomum Aclami, and frout' concave behind, where it gives attachment to the epiglottis, and to concave > ° r 6 ' -behind. m 2