345 EIGHT VENTRICLE OF HEAKT. three pendent cusps or tongues, whence the name tricuspid is given to it. Into the cusps are inserted small fibrous bands—the chordae tendinese, which unite them to the muscular wall of the ventricle. The three cusps are thus placed ;—one (right) is against the anterior the cusps wall of the ventricle ; another (posterior) touches the septum ; and right, ^os-16 the third (left or infundibular), the largest and most moveable, is teviov .and placed between the auriculo-ventricular opening and the infundi- bulum. The tricuspid valve consists of a duplicature of the lining mem- ^™*ure of brane of the heart, enclosing fibrous tissue. The central part of each tongue is strong, while the edges are thin and notched ; and between the main pieces there are often thinner intermediate points. The chordae tendinece, which keep the valve in place, ascend from attachment the musculi papillares in the intervals between the cusps, and are co1.dSn;dmoas connected in each space with the two pieces of the valve bounding it.* They end on the surface of the cusps turned away from the opening, a few reaching the attached upper margin ; but the greater number join the central thickened part, and the thin edge and point of the tongue. As the blood enters the cavity the valve is raised so as to close its use. the opening into the auricle ; and its protrusion into the latter cavity during the contraction of the ventricle is arrested by the small tendinous cords. The closure of this valve assists in producing the first sound of the heart. The mouth of the pulmonary artery (g) will be seen when the Pulmonary incision in the anterior wall of the ventricle is prolonged into it. 011 The opening is circular, with a diameter of about an inch. It . occupies the summit of the funnel-shaped portion of the ventricle, and is placed opposite the upper edge of the third costal cartilage of the left side, close to its junction with the sternum. Pulmonary valve. Guarding the orifice of the pulmonary artery is y^,™1^ °f. a valve consisting of three semilunar or sigmoid flaps. Each flap is attached to the side of the vessel by its convex border, and is free at the opposite edge, in which there is a slightly thickened nodule— the corpus Arantii. In the wall of the artery opposite each flap is dilatation of a slight hollow—the sinus of Valsalva. artery. This valve resembles the tricuspid in structure, being formed of ^™gtureof fibrous tissue with a covering of the lining membrane. In each flap the fibres have this arrangement : there is one band along the attached margin ; a second runs along the free edge, and is con- nected with the projecting nodule ; and a third set of fibres is directed from the nodule across the flap, so as to leave a semilunar interval named lunula on each side near the free edge. The use of the valve is obvious, viz., to give free passage to fluid and use. in one direction, and to prevent its return. While the blood is entering the artery the flaps are separated ; but when the elasticity * The papillary muscles are collected into two principal groups, an anterior sending its tendons to the right and left cusps, and a posterior, to the right and posterior cusps. In the interval between the left and posterior segments of the valve the tendinous cords are very small, and spring from the septum.