431 PARTS ENDANGERED IN LITHOTOMY. and possibly the superficial perineal vessels and nerves, will be cut in this first stage of the operation. In the subsequent attempt to reach the staff, when the knife is ^ieres^ing introduced into the front of the wound, the hinder part of the triangular ligament and constrictor urethra?, and the fore part of the levator ani will be divided ; and when the knife is placed within the groove of the staff, the membranous part of the urethra will be cut, with the muscular fibre about it. Lastly, as the knife as pushed along the staff into the bladder, it and in run- incises in its progress the membranous portion of the urethra, part ai0ng staff. of the prostate with large veins around it, and the neck of the bladder. When the last two parts are being cut, the handle of the knife is to be raised, and the blade depressed ; and the incision is to be made downwards and outwards, in the direction of a line from the urethra through the left lateral lobe of the prostate, above the level of the ejaculatory duct. Parts to be avoided. In the first incision in the ischio-rectal fossa, Parts to be the rectum may be cut if the knife is turned inwards across the rJctnm, ^ intestine, instead of being kept parallel with it ; and if the gut is not held out of the way with the fore finger of the left hand. The J^els pudic vessels on the outer wall of the ischio-rectal fossa may be wounded near the anterior part of the hollow, where they approach the margin of the triangular ligament ; but, posteriorly, they are securely lodged inside the projection of the ischial tuberosity. While making the deeper incisions to reach the staff, the artery artery of of the bulb lies immediately in front of the knife, and will be bulb' wounded if the incisions are made too far forwards ; but the vessel must almost necessarily be cut, when it arises farther back than usual, and crosses the front of the ischio-rectal fossa in its course to the bulb of the urethra. In the last stage of the operation the neck of the bladder should fogcfavesica not be incised to a greater extent than is necessary for the extraction of the stone, lest the recto-vesical fascia separating the perineum from the pelvis should be divided, and the abdominal cavity opened. Too large an incision through the prostate may Avound also anand acces- , ° 1 . J sory pudic unusual accessory pudic artery on the side of that body. artery. Directions. When the dissection of the perineum is completed, Directions. the flaps of skin are to be fastened together, after a preservative has been applied, and the limbs are to be put down for the examination of the abdomen. Section II. PERINEUM OF THE FEMALE. The perineum in the female differs from that in the male more Perineum in the external form than the internal anatomy. On the surface it ha^speciai has specia parts distinguishing it, viz., the aperture of the vagina Parts-