251 AXILLARY ARTERY. band which receives this name from its attachment on the one coid mem- side to the rib, and on the other to the coracoid process of the rane scapula. Between these points it is inserted into the clavicle, conceals enclosing the subclavius muscle, and is joined by the piece ofsu °avms' fascia that encases the small pectoral muscle. The part of the and joins membrane behind the subclavius is blended with the front of the vessels.0 axillary sheath. The sheath of the axillary vessels and nerves (e) is a funnel- Axillary . . . sheath • shaped tube, prolonged from the fascia covering the scaleni muscles in the lower part of the neck. It is strongest near the subclavius strongest in muscle, where the costo-coracoid band joins it. The anterior partflont" of the sheath is perforated by the cephalic vein (e), the acromio- thoracic artery (a), and the anterior thoracic nerves (1 and 2). Dissection. After the costo-coracoid membrane has been examined, Clean the the remains of it are to be taken away; and the subclavius muscle, vessels- and the axillary vessels and nerves with their branches, are to be carefully cleaned. The subclavius (fig. 73, d) is a small elongated muscle, placed Subclavius below the clavicle. It arises by a tendon from the first rib and its cartilage at their junction, in front of the costo-clavicular ligament. The fibres pass outwards and somewhat upwards, and are inserted into a groove on the under surface of the clavicle, which reaches between j.s attached i • • i to clavicle the two rough impressions for the costo- and coraco-clavicular and first rib. ligaments. The muscle crosses the large vessels and nerves of the limb, and Relations, is enclosed, as before said, in a sheath of fascia. Action. It depresses the clavicle, and indirectly the scapula. Use- The axillary artery (fig. 73) continues the subclavian trunk Axillary to the upper limb. The part of the vessel to which this name is applied is contained in the axilla, and extends from the outer border extent, of the first rib to the lower edge of the teres major muscle (h). In the axillary space its position will be marked by a line from course, the centre of the clavicle to the inner edge of the coraco-brachialis. Its direction will vary with the position of the limb to the trunk ; for when the arm lies by the side of the body the vessel is arched, its convexity being upwards ; but when the limb is raised to the level of the shoulder, it is somewhat curved in the opposite The depth direction. In the upper part of the axilla the vessel is deeply vanes- placed, but it becomes superficial as it approaches the arm. Its relations with the surrounding objects are numerous; and Relations :— the description of these will be methodised by dividing the artery into three parts—one above, one beneath, and one below the small pectoral muscle. Above the small pectoral muscle, the artery is contained in the Above small axillary sheath of membrane (e), and is concealed by the clavi- pectoial' cular portion of the great pectoral muscle. Behind it are the with intercostal muscles of the first space and the first digitation of the mu&c es serratus magnus. To the thoracic side is placed the axillary vein (</). The cephalic vessels, vein (e) and offsets of the acromio-thoracic vessels cross over it.