315 LIGAMENTS OF SHOULDER-JOINT. scapula. Enclosing the articular ends of the bones is a fibrous cap- sule lined by a synovial membrane. A ligamentous band (glenoid ligament) deepens the shallow scapular cavity for the reception of the large head of the humerus. The bones are but slightly bound together by ligamentous bands, Looseness, for, on the removal of the muscles, the head of the humerus may be drawn from the scapula for the distance of an inch. The capsular ligament (fig. 79,5) encloses the articular portions of capsular the bones. It is much thickened above, and slightly so below ; and ligament: the surrounding tendons are closely adherent to it. By the one end it is fixed around the articular surface of the attach- scapula, where it is connected with the long head of the triceps. By men b' the other the ligament is fixed (fig. 93) to the neck of the humerus close to the articular surface above, but at a little distance down the bone below ; and its attachment is interrupted between the tuber- osities (b) by the tendon of the biceps muscle, over which it is con- tinued, covering in the bicipital groove (fig. 79). On the inner side there is an aperture in the capsule, below the coracoid process, aperture; through which the synovial membrane of the joint is continuous with the bursa beneath the tendon of the subscapulars. The following muscles surround the articulation ;—above and be- muscles hind are the supraspinatus, infraspinatus, and teres minor ; below aioum ' are the long head of the triceps and the lower part of the subscapu- lars ; and internally it is covered by the last-named muscle. On the upper part of the capsule is a thick band of fibres—the accessory coraco-humeral or accessory ligament (fig. 79, 8), which springs from baud' the outer side of the coracoid process of the scapula, and widening over the top of the joint, is attached to the margins of the bicipital groove, and to the tuberosities. Dissection. To see the interior of the articulation cut circularly Dissection through the capsule near the scapula. When this has been done, stVucUires. the attachment of the capsule to the bones, the glenoid ligament, and the tendon of the biceps will be manifest. The tendon of the biceps muscle arches over the head of the humerus, Tendon of and serves the purpose of a ligament in supporting the bone. It is the blcei)S- attached to the upper part of the head of the scapula (fig. 93, d), and is united on each side with the glenoid ligament. At first flat, it afterwards becomes round, and enters the groove between the tuberosities of the humerus, where it is surrounded by the synovial membrane. The glenoid ligament (fig. 93, c) is a fibrous band, which surrounds Glenoid the fossa of the same name, increasing it for the reception of the hsament- head of the humerus. It is about two lines in width, and is con- nected in part with the sides of the tendon of the biceps ; but most of its fibres are fixed separately to the margin of the glenoid fossa. The synovial membrane lines the articular surface of the capsule, Synovial and is continued through the aperture on the inner side to join the membrane- bursa beneath the subscapular muscle. The membrane is reflected around the tendon of the biceps, and lines the upper part of the bicipital groove of the humerus.