LEVATOR ANT MUSCLE. 543 raising the floor of the pelvis : it may also draw the coccyx slightly forwards. The levator ani (fig. 169, d) is a thin flat muscle, which is Levator attached above to the side of the pelvis, and descends into the am' outlet of the cavity, where it joins its fellow and supports the situation; viscera. It arises anteriorly by tendinous fasciculi from the hack of the origin from pubis along an oblique line in front of the obturator interims ; and publs' below this some fleshy fibres often spring from the upper surface of the triangular ligament. Posteriorly it is attached to the lower and inner part of the ischial spine ; and between the osseous attach- ments the muscle takes origin in the angle between the obturator and recto-vesical portions of the pelvic fascia (along the curved line From this wide origin the fibres converge, the anterior being directed backwards, and the posterior downwards and inwards, to be inserted in the following manner :—The most anterior fibres, few in number, join with the muscle of the opposite side in the central point of the perineum ; the succeeding fibres, which arise from the pubis, are the longest, and pass backwards over the prostate to the side of the rectum, where they mix with the fibres of the sphincter muscles ; and the posterior fibres meet the opposite muscle in a narrow aponeurosis behind the gut, and are attached in part to the side of the coccyx (p. 420). The anterior fibres of the levator are in contact with the trian- gular perineal ligament ; and there is an interval between the two triangular ligament, ischial spine, and pelvic fascia ; insertion into central point of perineum, rectum, a median aponeurosis and coccyx relations of borders, * Side view of the muscles in the outlet of the pelvis (Illustrations of Dis- sections). Muscles: A. Gluteus maximus, cut. b. Ilio-psoas, cut. c. Coccygeus. d. Levator ani. e. External sphincter, f. Ejaculator urina?. G. Ischial spine, cut off. H. Triangular ligament. Arteries: a. External iliac artery, cut, with b, its accompanying vein. c. Obliterated hypogastric. d. Upper, and e, lower vesical. /. Internal pudic. Nerves: 1. Great sciatic. 2. Inferior hsemorrhoidal and perineal of pudic. 3. Dorsal nerve of penis.