541 THE PELVIC FASCIA. notch, as in the figure ; and the obturator internus muscle is to be carefully separated from the fascia and taken away. Lastly, by turning back the pyriformis muscle and the great and over sciatic nerve, a thin piece of the fascia covering those structures will Pyriform!s- be exposed in the great sacro-sciatic foramen (fpy). The pelvic fascia is a thin membrane which covers the deep ^^^^ surface of the muscles bounding the cavity, and may be described three parts, in three parts. Two of these line the wall of the pelvis,—one V1Z-:~ covering the obturator internus muscle is named the obturator fascia, and the other extending over the pyriformis muscle is the fascia of the pyriformis ; while the third enters into the formation of the floor of the cavity, and supports the rectum and bladder, whence it is known as the recto-vesical fascia. The obturator fascia (fig. 168) invests closely the pelvic portion ^"™tor of the obturator internus muscle, and is fixed to the bone around the attachment of the fleshy fibres. Thus, it is attached above to attach- the ilio-pectineal line of the hip-bone between the sacro-iliac articu- m 1 ' lation and the upper end of the thyroid foramen ; at the latter spot it joins the obturator membrane over the edge of the muscle, so as to form the floor of the canal transmitting the obturator vessels and nerve ; and in front it is fixed to the body of the pubis, following the border of the muscle. Below, it is inserted into the inner side of the inferior ramus of the pubis, and the ramus and tuberosity of the ischium in conjunction with the falciform process of the great sacro-sciatic ligament. Behind, the membrane is fixed to the hip- bone along the anterior margin of the great sciatic notch ; and between the ischial spine and tuberosity it is united with the great sacro-sciatic ligament, where the obturator internus issues from the pelvis. From the inner surface of this membrane the recto-vesical fascia relations, is given off, along a curved line extending from the ischial spine to the upper and inner part of the thyroid foramen (fig. 168, * *). Above this line the obturator fascia bounds the cavity of the pelvis, and is in contact with the peritoneum ; while below, it looks into the ischio-rectal fossa, except over a small space in front, where it is closely united with the pubic origin of the levator ani (la). The fascia of the pyriformis (fpy) is very thin, and is continued Fascia of backwards from the hinder part of the obturator fascia to the sacrum, Pyriformis- passing over the front of the sacral plexus and the pyriformis muscle, but beneath the internal iliac vessels, by the gluteal, sciatic and pudic branches of which it is perforated. The recto-vesical fascia may now be seen in part by looking into Kecto- the pelvis ; and the student may notice a whitish line extending i^ter.alfaSm from the lower part of the pubis, close to the symphysis, to the ischial spine. This line corresponds in its hinder part to the origin of the recto-vesical fascia from the obturator fascia ; but in front, the levator ani extends upwards between the two. The disposition of this part of the fascia will be better seen after the hip-bone has been taken away.