DISSECTION OF THE ABDOMEN. and the recepta- culnm, and splanchnic nerves. Lumbar lymphatic glands: ducts end in one trunk. Coeliac "lands : ducts join those from intestine. Beginning of the tho- racic duct. To show the origin of the duct, the diaphragm is to be divided over the aorta, and its pillars are to be thrown to the sides : a piece may be cut out of the aorta opposite the first lumbar vertebra. The beginning of the duct (receptaculum chyli), and the lower end of the large azygos vein may be well seen : and the two are to be followed upwards into the thorax. On the left side the student may trace the splanchnic nerves and the small azygos vein through the pillar of the diaphragm, and may show the knotted cord of the sympathetic nerve entering the abdomen beneath the arch over the psoas muscle. Lymphatic glands. A chain of glands is placed along the side of the external iliac artery, and along the front and sides of the lumbar vertebra ; they are connected by short tubes, which increase in size and diminish in number, and opposite the first lumbar vertebra form one principal trunk which enters the thoracic duct. Into the glands the lymphatics of the lower limbs, and those of some of the viscera and of the wall of the abdomen are received. Another cluster of large glands surrounds the coeliac axis, and covers the upper end of the abdominal aorta. They are distinguished as the coeliac glands, and receive the lymphatics of the stomach, spleen, pancreas and great part of the liver. Their ducts unite with those of the mesenteric glands, and give rise to one or more large trunks, which pass to the common thoracic duct. Receptaculum chyli. The thoracic duct begins in the abdomen by the union of three or four large lymphatic trunks. Its commence- ment is marked by a dilatation, which is placed on the right side of the aorta, opposite the first or second lumbar vertebra. The duct enters the thorax by passing through the diaphragm with the aorta. Section VI. SPINAL AND SYMPATHETIC NERVES. The spinal nerves of the loins enter into a plexus, and supply the limb and the contiguous portions of the trunk. Dissection (fig. 167). The lumbar nerves and their plexus are to Dissection De learnt on the left side, although the woodcut shows them on of the lum- the right side ; and to bring them into view, the dissector should bar plexus , . . .. .f. n .. ' , on left side, cut through the external iliac vessels, and afterwards scrape away the psoas. For the most part the fleshy fibres may be removed freely ; but a small branch (accessory of the obturator) should be first looked for at the inner border of the muscle. On, or in the substance of, the quadratus lumborum a communication may be sometimes found between the last dorsal and the first lumbar nerve. with sym- The cord of the sympathetic nerve lies along the edge of the pathetic. pSoaS) an(i offsets of it join the spinal nerves ; these are to be followed back along the lumbar arteries.