SEMINAL TUBES OF TESTICLE. 519 The mediastinum testis (corpus Highmoriarmm ; fig. 164, r) pro- astheiae- jects into the gland for a third of an inch with the blood-vessels. diastmum It is situate at the back of the testis, extending from the upper nearly to the lower end, and is rather larger and deeper above than below. It is formed of two pieces, which are united in front at an acute angle. To its front and sides the finer septal processes are connected ; and in its interior are contained the blood-vessels behind, and a network of seminal ducts (rete testis) in front. Of the finer processes of the tunica albuginea (fig. 164, b) which aud^ ^ ^ enter the testis, there are two kinds. One set, round and cord-like, but of different lengths, is attached posteriorly to the mediastinum, and serves to maintain the shape of the testis. The other set forms delicate membranous septa, which divide the mass of seminal tubes into lobes, and join the mediastinum, like the rest. Within the tunica albuginea is a thin vascular layer, the tunica vas- a vascular i£iY6r linens culosa, which lines the fibrous coat, and covers the different septa it (tunica in the interior of the gland. It is formed of the ramifications vasculosa)- of the blood-vessels, united by areolar tissue, like the pia mater of the brain : in it the arteries are subdivided before they are distributed on the secerning tubes, and the small veins are collected into larger trunks. Form and length of the seminal tubes (tubuli seminiferi). The Seminal secerning or seminal tubes are very convoluted, and are but slightly tllbules: held together by fine areolar tissue and surrounding blood-vessels, ^PPearaiK(' so that they may be readily drawn out of the testis for some dis- tance : their length is said by Lauth to be two feet and a quarter, length; Ending, size and structure. Within the lobes of the testis some communi- tubes end in distinct closed extremities ; but the rest communicate, catl0US"> forming loops or arches. The diameter of the tubules varies from and size. T<jQth to xi-oth of an inch. The wall of the tubule is formed of a thin translucent membrane, but it has considerable strength. Names from the arrangement of the tubes. To different parts of the Tubes seminal tubes, the following names have been applied. Where the namefthe" tubules are collected into masses, they form the lobes of the testis. As they enter the fibrous mediastinum they become straight, and are named tubuli recti. Communicating in the mediastinum, they produce the rete testis. And, lastly, as they leave the upper end of the gland they are convoluted, and are called coni vasculosi, or vasa efferentia. The lobes of the testis (fig. 164, a) are formed by bundles of the They form \ 0 ' / J the lobes • seminiferous tubes, and are situate in the intervals between the processes of the tunica albuginea. From 100 to 200 in number number; (Krause), they are conical in form, with the base of each at the shape; circumference, and the apex at the mediastinum testis; and those in the centre of the testicle are the largest. Each is made up of two or more tortuous seminal tubules ; and tubes in the minute tubes in one lobe are united with those in the neighbour- arrange- ing lobes. Towards the apex of each lobe the tubules become less ment- bent, and are united together ; and the tubuli of the several lobes are farther joined at the same spot into the tubuli recti.