LINGUAL NERVE. 97 the artery of the same name, and, after being joined by sublingual branches, passes backwards over the hyo-glossns muscle with the hypoglossal nerve. These veins end in the internal jugular. The lingual nerve (fig. 24,1) has been followed in the pterygo- Lingual maxillary region to its passage between the ramus of the lower jaw and the internal pterygoid muscle (p. 92). In the submaxillary region the nerve is inclined inwards to the side of the tongue, across along side the mucous membrane of the mouth and the origin of the superior of ton§ue constrictor muscle, and above the deep part of the submaxillary Fig. 24.* gland. Lastly, it is directed forwards below the Whartonian duct, |^sches and along the side of the tongue to the apex. Branches are fur- nished to the surrounding parts, thus :— Two or more offsets connect it with the submaxillary ganglion, to the gan- ,-i -l -i j? 4.1 j_ glion, near the gland ol that name. Farther forwards one or more branches descend on the hyo-to twelfth nerve glossus to unite in a loop with twigs of the hypoglossal nerve. Other filaments are supplied to the mucous membrane of the *°e™^^ mouth, the gums, and the sublingual gland. Lastly, the branches for the tongue ascend through the muscular to the substance, and are distributed to the conical and fungiform papillse. papill8e- The submaxillary ganglion (fig. 24,2) resembles the other Submaxil- ganglia connected with the three trunks of the fifth nerve, and ganglion communicates with motor, sensory, and sympathetic nerves. It lies * Deep view of the submaxillary region (Illustrations of Dissections). Muscles: A. Grenio-glossus. b. Gfenio-hyoid. c. Hyo-glossus. d. Stylo-glossus. F. Mylo-hyoid reflected, h. Stylo-hyoid. j. Posterior belly of digastric. Nerves: 1. Lingual. 2. Submaxillary ganglion. 4. Glosso-pharyngeal. 6. Hypoglossal. 7. Upper laryngeal. The lingual artery is seen dividing, close to the hypoglossal nerve : the ranine offset is marked with 9. 3. Wharton's duct. H