295 DISSECTION OP THE HAND. Dissection. The attachment of the biceps and brachialis anticus to Dissection, the bones of the forearm may be now cleaned and examined. The insertion of the brachialis anticus takes place by a broad thick insertion of brachialis tendon, about an inch in length, which is fixed into the rough anticus. impression on the front of the coronoid process of the ulna. Insertion of the biceps. The tendon of the biceps is inserted into Insertion of the rough hinder part of the tuberosity of the radius, a bursa ' separating it from the fore part of the prominence. Near its attachment the tendon is twisted, so that the anterior surface be- comes external. The supinator brevis muscle partly surrounds the insertion. Section V. THE PALM OF THE HAND. Dissection (fig. 87). The digits being separated and fixed firmly Dissection. with tacks, the skin is to be reflected from the palm of the hand by means of two incisions. One is to be carried along the centre from the wrist to the fingers ; and the other is to be made from side Clean small to side at the termination of the first. In raising the inner flap, Jh^cie the small palmaris brevis muscle will be seen at the inner margin of the hand ; and its insertion into the skin may be left till the muscle has been learnt. In the fat the ramifications of the palmar and trace branches of the median and ulnar nerves are to be traced. nerves.°US The student should remove the fat from the palmaris muscle, and ^ c „ . ~" Define the from the strong palmar fascia in the centre of the hand; and he palmar should take care not to destroy a fibrous band (transverse ligament) fascia> which lies across the roots of the fingers. When cleaning the fat from the palmar fascia he will recognise, near the fingers, the digital vessels and nerves ; and must be especially careful of two,—viz., digital those of the inner side of the little finger and outer side of the index nerves* finger, which appear higher up than the rest, and are more likely to be injured. By the side of the vessels and nerves to the fingers four slender lumbricales muscles are to be exposed. Lastly, the skin and the fat may be reflected from the thumb and ^n4t®*Pose fingers by an incision along each, in order that the sheaths of the sheaths, tendons with the collateral vessels and nerves may be laid bare. Cutaneous palmar nerves. Small twigs are furnished to the integu- Cutaneous ment from both the median and ulnar nerves in the hand ; and two nerves1; branches descend from the forearm. One is the offset of the median nerve (p. 293) which crosses the one from annular ligament : it extends to about the middle of the palm, and is united with the palmar branch of the ulnar : a few filaments are furnished to the ball of the thumb. The other palmar branch is derived from the ulnar nerve (p. 292), the other and has been traced on the ulnar artery to the hand : it is distributed from "lnar* to the upper and inner part of the palm.