86 DISSECTION OF THE PTERYGOID REGION. Fibro-earti- lage; shape, and attach- ments. Use. Two syno- vial sacs. Stylo-maxil- lary liga- ment. Surface of jaw and tem- poral bone. Kinds of movement. In opening the mouth, how condyle moves. Dislocation. State of ligaments. Shutting mouth. Forward and backward movement. have been examined, the interarticular fibro-cartilage will be ex- posed by taking away the capsule on the outer side (fig. 21). The interarticnlar fibro-cartilage (fig. 21, 4) is an oval plate, elongated transversely, and thinner in the centre, where it is some- times perforated, than at the margins. The upper surface fits the articular hollow and eminence of the temporal bone, being convex behind and concave in front; and the lower is moulded to the convexity of the condyle of the jaw. By the circumference it is connected with the capsule; and in front the external pterygoid muscle is attached to it. This interarticular disc allows a double movement to take place in the articulation, the condyle of the jaw revolving in the socket formed by the fibro-cartilage, while the latter glides forwards and backwards over the temporal articular surface. Two synovial sacs are present in the articulation—a larger one above, and a smaller one below the fibro-cartilage. Another structure—the stylo-maxillary ligament (fig. 21, 3) is described as a uniting band to the articulation. This is a process of the deep cervical fascia, which extends from the styloid process to the hinder border of the ramus of the jaw ; it gives attachment to the stylo-glossus muscle, and separates the parotid and submaxillary glands. Articular surfaces of the bones. The condyle of the jaw has a form resembling that of a part of a cylinder, with its axis directed obliquely from without inwards and somewhat backwards. The upper articular surface is placed on the squamous part of the temporal bone, and is larger than that on the jaw. It includes the deep oval hollow formed by the part of the glenoid fossa in front of the Glaserian fissure, and the convex surface, known as the articular eminence, which forms the anterior boundary of the hollow. Movements of the joint. The lower jaw has up and down, forward and backward, and oblique movements. In depressing the jaw, as in opening the mouth, the condyle moves forwards till it is placed under the convexity of the articular eminence ; but the interposed concave fibro-cartilage gives security to the joint. Even with this provision, a slight degree more of sudden motion may throw the condyle off the prominence of the temporal bone into the zygomatic fossa, and give rise to dislocation. In this movement the fore and lateral parts of the capsule are tightened; and the fibro-cartilage is drawn forwards with the condyle by the external pterygoid muscle. "When the jaw is elevated and the mouth closed, the condyle and the fibro-cartilage glide back into the glenoid fossa ; and the posterior part of the capsule is stretched. During the horizontal movements forwards and backivards of the jaw the condyle is placed successively opposite the front and back of the temporal articular surface ; and the fibro-cartilage always follows the condyle of the jaw, even in dislocation. Excessive motion forwards would be prevented by the coronoid process of the jaw striking against the zygomatic arch ; and the