457 EXTERNAL OR OBLIQUE HERNIA. somewhat longer and narrower. In that sex it lodges the round ligament. The internal abdominal ring (fig. 142) is an aperture in the internal transversalis fascia, which is situate midway between the symphysis rmo°:mma pubis and the anterior superior iliac spine, and half an inch above situation, Poupart's ligament. It is oval in form ; and its longest diameter, form and which is directed vertically, measures about half an inch : the fascia marSm 5 at its outer and lower parts is stronger than at the opposite sides. Arching above and on the inner side of the aperture is the lower relations; border of the transversalis muscle (d), which is fleshy in the outer but tendinous in the inner half. Below it is Poupart's ligament, which separates the aperture from the external iliac artery. On the inner side lie the epigastric vessels (a). This opening in the transversalis fascia is the inlet to the inguinal parts trans- canal, and through it the cord, or the round ligament, passes into j-j^Q^h it. the wall of the abdomen. An external hernia enters the canal at the same spot. All the protruding parts receive as a covering the prolongation (infundibuliform fascia) from the margin of the opening. The external abdominal ring (fig. 137, c) is the outlet of the in- External guinal canal, and through it the spermatic cord reaches the surface ^i°™mal of the body. This aperture is placed in the aponeurosis of the situation, external oblique muscle, near the crest of the pubis ; and from the margin a prolongation (spermatic fascia) is sent on the parts passing through it (p. 443). Course and coverings of an external hernia. A piece of intestine The intes- leaving the abdomen with the cord, and passing through the inguinal jng the canal to the surface of the body, will obtain a covering from every ^g1^^ stratum of the wall of the abdomen in the groin, except from the transversalis muscle. It receives its investments in this order :—-As the intestine is has cover- thrust forwards, it carries before it first the peritoneum and the peritoneum subperitoneal fat, and enters the tube of the infundibuliform fascia £"dJ^'rsalis (p) around the cord. Still increasing in size, it is forced downwards faScia, to the lower border of the internal oblique muscle, where it will have the cremasteric fascia (c) applied to it. The intestine is next cremaster, directed along the front of the cord to the external abdominal ring, spermatic and in passing through that opening receives the investment of the g^^ernciai intercolumnar or spermatic fascia. Lastly, as the hernia descends fascia and towards the scrotum, it has the additional coverings of the super-skm' ficial fascia and the skin. In a hernia which has passed the external abdominal ring, the ^^"J". coverings from without inwards are therefore the following :—the skin and superficial fascia, the spermatic and cremasteric fasciae, the infundibuliform fascia, the subperitoneal tissue, and the peri- toneum or hernial sac. Two of the coverings, viz., the peritoneal how pro- and subperitoneal, originate as the gut protrudes ; but the rest are duced- ready formed round the cord, and the intestine slips inside them. The different layers become much thickened in a hernia that has existed for some time.