CCELIAC ARTERY AND BRANCHES. 487 defined ; this is a difficult task without the aid of someone to hold aside the stomach and spleen. The veins will have been dissected for the most part with the Veins, arteries ; but the origin of the portal trunk is to be made out beneath the pancreas, and in front of the vena cava. The Ccsliac Axis (fig. 149, c) is the first visceral branch of the celiac axis abdominal aorta, and arises close to the upper margin of the opening threefoi-the in the diaphragm. It is a short thick trunk, about half an inch lowing =— long, which projects above the upper border of the pancreas, and is surrounded by the solar plexus of the sympathetic. Its branches— coronary, hepatic, and splenic—radiate from the trunk (whence the name axis) to their distribution to the surrounding viscera. The coronary artery (d) is the smallest of the three, and runs Coronary, upwards between the peritoneum and diaphragm to the cardiac w 1101 glvts orifice of the stomach. Having furnished some oesophageal branches, it then bends downwards, and passes between the layers of the small omentum, along the small curvature of the stomach, to anastomose with the pyloric branch (o) of the hepatic artery. Its offsets are thus distributed :— a. (Esophageal branches ascend on the gullet through the opening offsets to in the diaphragm, and anastomose with branches of the descending j^gus°" thoracic aorta. b. Gastric branches are given to both sides of the stomach, and those and the on the left end communicate with twigs (vasa brevia) of the splenic s omac " artery. The splenic artery (e) is the largest branch of the cceliac axis Splenic in the adult. It is a tortuous vessel, and runs almost horizontally aitery to the spleen along the upper border of the pancreas. Near the spleen it divides into terminal branches, about seven in number (from four to ten), which enter that viscus by the surface towards supplies the the stomach. It is accompanied by the splenic vein, which is below spleen' it ; and it distributes branches to the pancreas and the stomach. a. Pancreatic branches. Numerous small branches are supplied to the pancreas -, i pi/- . ' ' \ . by large and the pancreas; and one of these (arteria pancreatica magna) arises small twigs, near the left end, and runs to the right in the gland with the duct. 6. Gastric branches arise from the artery or its divisions near the and the ' spleen, and pass to the stomach between the layers of the gastro- ^y splenic omentum. Most of these (yasa brevia) are small, and brevia,' ramify over the left end of the organ ; but one larger branch, the left gastro-epiplo'ic artery (/), turns to the right between the layers and left of the great omentum, along the great curvature of the stomach, and fpfpioic. inosculates with the right gastro-epiploic branch of the hepatic artery. This artery distributes twigs to both surfaces of the stomach, and between the pieces of peritoneum forming the great omentum. The hepatic artery (g) is intermediate in size between the Hepatic other two, and is encircled by the largest plexus of nerves. In its aitery courses to course to the liver, the vessel is directed at first to the right and the liver, forwards to the pyloric end of the stomach, where it supplies its