LAMINiE AND LOBES. 229 cerebelli. At the bottom of the groove is an elongated mass named the inferior vermiform process (c to e), which corresponds to the central part uniting the hemispheres above. The two vermiform processes constitute the general commissure of the halves of the cerebellum. Laminae and Sulci. The superficial part of the cerebellum is composed of grey substance, and is marked by concentric laminae or folia, which have their free edges towards the surface, and run in a curved direction with the concavity turned forwards. The laminae are separated by sulci, which are lined by pia mater, and are of variable depth. Only a small number of the laminae appear on the surface, for many others are placed on the sides of the larger pro- cesses, and are concealed within the deeper sulci. The lamina?, and contains lower worm. Surface foliated. Between folia are sulci. Many folia are hidden. Fig. 68/ especially the smaller ones, are frequently interrupted by the junction of neighbouring sulci. On the upper aspect many of the Arrange- laminae pass continuously from one hemisphere to the other, with worm.111 only a slight bending forwards in the superior vermiform process ; but those of the under surface of the two hemispheres are connected by means of the special commissural bodies composing the inferior vermiform process. The deepest sulci of the hemisphere divide the laminae into groups which are known as the lobes of the cerebellum. Lobes of the upper surface. On the upper surface the Upper lobes hemisphere is divided into two lobes by a deep sulcus which arches are outwards and forwards from the hinder end of the superior anterior, * Under surface of the cerebellum, the medulla oblongata being cut away in greater part. a. Pons Varolii, b. Medulla oblongata, cut through, c to €. Inferior vermiform process, consisting of—c. Uvula. d. Pyramid. €. Tuber valvulse. Lobes of the under surface. /. Flocculus, g. Amygdaloid, h, i. Biventral. Between i and h. Slender. Tc. Posterior. 3. Third nerve attached to the crus cerebri. 5. Fifth nerve.