SYMPATHETIC CORD. 537 muscles of the thigh (p. 625). Arising in front of the anterior in the crural from the second, third, and fourth nerves in the plexus abdomen; (sometimes not from the second), it makes its appearance at the inner border of the psoas near the sacro-iliac articulation. Escaped from beneath the muscle, the nerve crosses the side of the pelvis below the external iliac, but above the obturator vessels, and enters ends in the the thigh through the aperture at the top of the thyroid foramen. thlgh; Occasionally the obturator gives origin to the following branch : — The accessory obturator nerve (I) arises from the trunk of the occasionally obturator, or from the third and fourth nerves of the plexus. Its branchf801^ course is along the inner border of the psoas, beneath the investing fascia, and over the hip-bone to the thigh, where it ends by joining the obturator nerve, and supplying the hip-joint (p. 625). (tANGLIated cord of the sympathetic. The lumbar part of ^™^j!jjic the gangliated cord of the sympathetic is placed on the front of the abdomen spinal column (fig. 167, o) : it lies along the inner border of the joins that psoas muscle, and is somewhat concealed on the right side by the in orax' vena cava, on the left by the aorta. The cord possesses four or five has four or oval ganglia opposite the bodies of the vertebrae, which supply nesansia» connecting and visceral branches. Connecting branches. From each ganglion two small branches are ^ranc^e^1t,> directed backwards along the centre of the body of the vertebra, nerves, with the lumbar artery ; these unite with one or two spinal nerves near the intervertebral foramen. The connecting branches are long- in the lumbar region, in consequence of the gangliated cord being carried forwards by the psoas muscle from the intervertebral foramina. Branches of distribution. Most of the internal branches throw and to the themselves into the aortic and hypogastric plexuses, and so reach the viscera indirectly. Some filaments enter the vertebras and their connecting ligaments. Last dorsal nerve (fig. 167, e). The anterior primary branch Last dorsal of the last dorsal resembles the intercostal nerves in its distribution, but differs from them in not being contained in an intercostal space. Lying below the last rib, the nerve is directed outwards across the course to upper part of the quadratus lumborum, but beneath the external aMomen-6 arched ligament and the fascia of the quadratus. At the outer border of that muscle it perforates the middle layer of the fascia lumborum, and enters the wall of the abdomen, where it ends in an abdominal and a lateral cutaneous branch (p. 450). The first lumbar artery accompanies it. Near the spine it furnishes a small branch to the quadratus muscle : brancnn to muscle and it may communicate by means of this with the first lumbar nerve. The lumbar arteries of the aorta (p. 527) are furnished to the Lumbar back, the spinal canal, and the wall of the abdomen : they resemble five^in num- the aortic intercostals in their course and distribution. Commonly ^et[eon eacl) five in number on each side, they arise from the back of the aorta, and the vessels of opposite sides are sometimes joined in a common trunk. They then pass backwards over the hollowed surface of the course;