RELATIONS OF STOMACH. 467 into stomach, small intestine, and large intestine ; and the two last alimentary are farther subdivided as will afterwards appear. The several p^siet!ori of viscera have the following general position :—The small intestine several is much coiled, and occupies the greater part of the cavity ; while parts > the great intestine arches round it. Both are held in position by portions of the serous lining. Above the arch of the great intestine are situate the stomach, the liver, the spleen, and the pancreas ; and of and below it is the convoluted small gut. Behind the intestine, kldney- on each side, is the kidney with its excretory tube. Before the natural position of the viscera is disturbed, their Relations situation in the different regions of the abdomen, and their relations to be seen, to surrounding parts should be examined. RELATIONS OF THE VISCERA. The stomach (fig. 144) intervenes between the gullet and the Position small intestine, and is partly retained in position by folds of the J"ti!Jlatlons serous membrane. It is somewhat pyriform in shape, with the stomach, larger end on the left side ; and it is placed in the left hypo- chondriac and the epigastric regions. At its large end the stomach is joined by the oesophagus, which Cardia and fixes it to the diaphragm. The opening of the oesophagus into the stomach is named the cardia, and lies behind the seventh costal cartilage of the left side about an inch from its junction with the sternum, being on a level with the tenth dorsal vertebra. To the left of the cardia, the fundus of the stomach bulges upwards in the fundus ; left vault of the diaphragm. The concave border of the stomach to the right of the oesophagus is the small curvature, and is attached to small the liver by a fold of peritoneum—the small omentum. curvature; The right extremity leads into the small intestine (duodenum) pyloric end; by the pyloric orifice, the situation of which is indicated externally by a slight constriction of the tube, and a thickened band in the wall that may be felt with the finger. The pyloric end of the stomach is placed beneath the liver, and about two inches below the xiphi-sternal articulation, at the level usually of the disc between the twelfth dorsal and first lumbar vertebrae. The anterior surface of the stomach is in contact above and to anterior the right with the liver, on the left with the diaphragm, and between these with the abdominal wall. The posterior surface lies and pos- over the spleen, to which it is connected by a fold of peritoneum surfaces; (gastro-splenic omentum), the left kidney and suprarenal capsule, the pancreas, and the transverse meso-colon. The convex border or great 'curvature is directed to the left and great curva- downwards, and has the great omentum attached to it; along it lies fixeVp^rt.8 the transverse colon. This is the most moveable part of the organ. The form and position of the stomach vary with its degree of changes in distension. When the organ is empty, it is flattened from before p0™tiond. backwards, and drawn up towards the left hypochondriac region, the empty pyloric end reaching very little to the right of the middle line. h h 2