321 THE WRIST-JOINT, The external lateral ligament is a short band, which passes from the styloid process of the radius to the outer part of the scaphoid bone. The internal lateral ligament is longer and thicker than the external. It is attached by one end to the styloid process of the ulna, and by the other to the rough upper part of the pyramidal bone. Some of the anterior fibres are continued to the pisiform bone. The anterior ligament (fig. 96,1) springs from the radius, and is inserted into the first row of carpal bones, except the pisiform, on the anterior surface. The posterior ligament (fig. 99,1) is membranous, like the anterior, and its fibres are directed downwards and in- wards from the radius to the same three carpal bones of the first row on the posterior aspect. Dissection. To see the form of the articular surfaces, the joint may be opened by a transverse incision through the posterior ligament, near the bones of the carpus. Articular surfaces. The end of the radius, and the fibro-cartilage (fig. 97, c) uniting it with the ulna form a shallow socket for the reception of the carpal bones; and the surface of the radius is divided by a prominent line into an external triangular, and an internal square impression. The three carpal bones of the first row constitute a convex eminence (fig. 98), which is received into the hollow before mentioned in this way ;—the scaphoid bone (a) is opposite the external mark of the radius ; the semilunar bone (b) touches the scjuare impression and the triangular fibro-cartilage ; while the pyramidal bone (c) is in contact with the capsule, and with the fibro-cartilage when the hand is moved inwards. The synovial membrane has the arrangement common to simple joints. This joint communicates occasionally with the lower radio- ulnar articulation by means of an aperture in the fibro-cartilage between the two. Movements. The wrist is a condyloid articulation, and permits of angular motion in four different directions, with circumduction. Flexion and extension. In flexion the hand is moved forwards, while the carpus rolls on the radius from before back, and projects external lateral, internal lateral, posterior ligaments. Dissection. Surface of radius ; of first row of carpal bones. Opposed surfaces. Synovial sac. Kinds of motion: flexion * Front view of the articulations of the wrist, and carpal and metacarpal bones (Bourgery). 1. Anterior ligament of the wrist-joint. 2. Capsule of the joint of the metacarpal bone of the thumb with the trapezium. 3. Pisiform bone, with its ligamentous bands. 4. Transverse bands uniting the bases of the metacarpal bones. Y