MOVEMENTS OF THE KNEE. 699 In flexion, the tibia with its fibro-cartilages moves backwards round Flexion: the end of the femur ; and the motion is limited by the extensor movement muscle, and by the meeting of the calf of the leg with the thigh. of tlbia; For the anterior third of the movement the tibia is directed back- change in wards and inwards along the oblique curve of the inner condyle, directl0n» giving rise to an inward rotation of that bone ; but for the posterior two-thirds, the tibia passes straight back and up over both condyles. All the external ligaments are relaxed, except the anterior ; and state of the same is the case with the anterior crucial: the posterior crucial ll§aments- ligament is put forcibly on the stretch towards the end of flexion. In extension, the tibia is carried forwards until it passes slightly Extension beyond the line of the femur, when the uniting ligaments prevent ™t^e.nt its farther progress. In the hinder two-thirds of the movement the tibia has a straight course course over the condyles of the femur; but in the anterior third the cUanSes '> leg-bone is directed forwards and outwards over the oblique curve of the inner condyle, and is rotated out. The posterior and lateral ligaments, together with the whole of state of the anterior crucial ligament, are rendered tense and set a limit to ^n1t1fa" the movement. Rotation. A half-bent state of the knee is necessary for this Two kinds movement, for the purpose of relaxing the anterior crucial and the of rotatlon- lateral ligaments ; and the foot must be free. Then, the tibia with its fibro-cartilages rotates around a longitudinal axis, the great toe being turned in and out. During rotation in, the inner articular surface of the tibia moves Rotation in; but little beneath the inner condyle of the femur ; but the outer movement articular surface, with its fibro-cartilage, glides forwards under the of tlbia' external condyle. Both lateral ligaments are loose ; but the anterior crucial is state of gradually tightened, and finally stops the motion. ligaments. In rotation out the opposite movement of the tibia takes place,— Rotation the outer articular surface being directed backwards. out; The internal lateral ligament is gradually tightened, and controls state of the movement : the crucials have not any influence on it (p. 696). iig*111611*8- Movement of the patella. When the knee passes from flexion to ex- Movement tension, the patella travels upwards and slightly inwards over the of Patella: lower end of the femur, touching in succession different parts of the femoral articular surfaces. In complete flexion, the knee-pan lies on the outer side of the in flexion, joint below the femur, where it is scarcely perceptible, and is fixed in its situation. It touches the semilunar surface on the inner where it condyle by its perpendicular facet; and the under part of the outer touches '■> condyle by the upper and outer mark on its square surface. When the joint is passing from flexion to extension, the upper whiie pair of impressions on the square surface of the patella, and the straighten- lower pair rest successively on the trochlear surface of the femur. mg' In complete extension, the patella is situate at the upper part of in exten- the knee-joint, where it is very prominent, with its apex and the sion' ligament of the patella directed down and out to the tibia. For the