DISSECTION OF THE ABDOMEN. 522 from the back of the testicle and the epididymis. As it ascends along the cord its branches form the spermatic plexus. It joins the vena cava on the right side, and the renal vein on the left (p. 531). Lymphatics The lymphatics of the testicle ascend on the blood-vessels, and join the lumbar glands. and nerves. The nerves are derived from the sympathetic, and accompany the artery to the testis. Vessels of Vessels of the vas deferens. A special artery is furnished to the the duct. excretory duct from the upper or lower vesical, and reaches as far as the testis, where it anastomoses with the spermatic artery. Veins from the epididymis enter the spermatic vein. The nerves are derived from the hypogastric plexus. Section V. DIAPHRAGM WITH AORTA AND YENA CAVA. Dissect vessels and muscles. To see the diaphragm. Define arches. Diaphragn situation and form ; origin at the circum- ference : insertion of fibres into a central tendon. Directions. After the body is replaced in its former position on the back, the student should prepare first the diaphragm, next the large vessels and their branches, and then the deep muscles of the abdomen. Dissection. For the dissection of the diaphragm it will be necessary to remove the peritoneum, defining especially the central tendinous part, and the strong processes or pillars which are fixed to the lumbar vertebrae. While cleaning the muscle the student should be careful of the vessels and nerves on the surface, and of others in and near the pillars. On the right side two aponeurotic bands or arches near the spiner which give attachment to the muscular fibres, should be dissected ; one curves over the internal muscle (psoas) ; the other extends over the external muscle (quadratus), and will be made more evident by separating it from the fascia covering the quadratus. The diaphragm or midriff (fig. 165, a) forms the vaulted moveable partition between the thorax and the abdomen. It is. fleshy externally, where it is attached to the surrounding ribs and the spinal column, and tendinous in the centre. The origin of the muscle is at the circumference, and is similar on each side of the middle line. Thus, it arises by fleshy slips from the inner surface of the ensiform process and the six lower rib- cartilages ; from two aponeurotic arches between the last rib and the spinal column,—one being placed over the quadratus lumboruni, and the other over the psoas muscle ; and, lastly, from the lumbar vertebrae by a thick muscular piece or pillar. From this extensive origin the fibres are directed inwards, with different degrees of obliquity and length, to the central tendon ; but some have a peculiar disposition in the pillars which will be afterwards noted (p. 524).