DISSECTION OF THE UPPER LIMB. 246 open on end open on the summit by apertures smaller than the canals, and of nipple. varying from the size of a bristle to that of a common pin. Muscular tissue in nipple. Nipple. The substance of the nipple is composed in great part of a network of interlacing bundles of plain muscular tissue, through which the lactiferous ducts pass to the surface. Some of the bundles extend from base to apex of the nipple ; and surrounding the base is a set of circular fibres, with which radiating bundles decussate. Arteries of Blood-vessels. —The arteries are supplied by the axillary, internal mammary, the gland, anc| intercostal, and enter both surfaces of the gland. The veins end prin- and veins. cipally in the axillary and internal mammary trunks ; but others enter the intercostal veins. Nerves. The nerves are supplied from the anterior and lateral cutaneous branches of the thorax, viz., from the third, fourth, and fifth intercostal nerves. Lymphatics. The lymphatics of the inner side open into the sternal glands ; those of the outer side pass to the axillary Dissection of pectoral muscle. Remove fat of axilla, follow vessels. Clean back of space. Trace nerves of plexus, and on inner wall. Dissection (fig. 72). With the limb in the same position to the trunk, the student is first to remove the fascia and the fat from the surface of the great pectoral muscle. In cleaning the muscle the scalpel should be carried in the direction of the fibres, viz., from the arm to the thorax ; and the dissection may be begun at the lower border on the right side, but at the upper border on the left side. The fascia and the fat are to be taken from the axilla, without injury to the numerous vessels, nerves, and glands in the space. The dissection will be best executed by cleaning first the large axillary vessels at the outer part, where these are about to enter the arm ; and then following their branches which are directed to the chest, viz., the long thoracic under cover of the anterior boundary, and the subscapular along the posterior boundary. With the latter- vessels the middle and lower subscapular nerves are to be found, and turning backwards near the arm the circumflex artery and nerve. Some arterial twigs entering the axillary glands should also be traced out. In taking away the fascia and fat from the muscles at the back of the space, the small internal cutaneous branch of the musculo- spiral nerve (fig. 72, 6) should be looked for near the great vessels. The nerves of the brachial plexus are then to be defined. The smallest of these, wdrich possibly may be destroyed, is the nerve of Wrisberg : it lies close to the hinder edge of the axillary vein, and joins with the intercosto-humeral nerve. When cleaning the serratus muscle on the ribs the student is to seek on its surface the posterior thoracic nerve ; and to trace the posterior offsets of the intercostal nerves crossing the axilla. THE AXILLA. Situation The axilla is the hollow between the arm and the chest (fig. 72). o]w] torm of the arm-pit. It is somewhat pyramidal in form, and its apex is directed upwards to the root of the neck. The space is larger near the thorax than at the arm, and its boundaries are as follows :— Boundaries, Boundaries. In front and behind, the space is limited by the