385 LATISSIMUS DORSI MUSCLE. of fibres, which forms a median partition between the muscles of the two sides of the neck, is sent forwards to be attached to the external occipital crest and the other cervical spines. *The latissimus dorsi (fig. 119, b) is the widest muscle of the Latissimus • dorsi * back, and is thin and aponeurotic at its attachment to the spine and origin from pelvis. It arises along the middle line from the spinous processes of sPine' the six lower dorsal, all the lumbar, and the upper sacral vertebrse, as well as from the supraspinous ligament. On the outer side it arises pelvis, from the posterior half of the outer edge of the iliac crest by its aponeurosis, and from the lowest three or four ribs by as many fleshy and ribs; processes, which interdigitate with slips of the external oblique muscle of the abdomen. And in many bodies it receives another fleshy slip from the inferior angle of the scapula. The fibres are directed outwards and upwards, converging rapidly ; and the muscle, much reduced in breadth, turns round the lower border of the teres major, to be inserted by tendon into the bottom of the bicipital insertion groove of the humerus (p. 256). i^°.lmme' The muscle is superficial, except at the upper and inner part, reiations • where it is covered to a small extent by the trapezius. Farther out there is a space between the two, in which the rhomboid and infra- spinatus muscles appear. The lower or outer border overlaps the edge of the external oblique muscle in the interval between the last rib and the iliac crest. The aponeurosis of the latissimus is in its lower part incorporated in the posterior layer of the fascia lumborum, of which it forms the chief constituent. Action. If the arm is hanging loose, the muscle can move it use, behind the back, rotating it in at the same time. If the limb is umMsffree, raised, the latissimus, combining with the large pectoral and teres muscles, will depress the humerus. Supposing the arm fixed, the latissimus assists the pectoralis major and fixed, in drawing the moveable trunk towards the humerus, as in the act of climbing. * Dissection. The latissimus is to be divided about midway Dissection between the spines of the vertebrae and the angle of the scapula, fatil^mus. and the pieces are to be reflected inwards and outwards. In raising the inner half of the muscle, care must be taken not to destroy either the thin lower serratus, with which it is united, or the aponeurosis continued upwards from the serratus. In the interval between the last rib and the iliac crest the latissimus is adherent to the aponeurosis of the transversalis abdominis muscle, and should not be detached from it. * Parts covered by the latissimus. The latissimus dorsi lies on the Parts be- erector spinse, the serratus posticus inferior, the lower ribs with their sfmus.latl3" intercostal muscles, and the lower angle of the scapula, with parts of the rhomboideus major, infraspinatus, and teres major muscles. Nearer the humerus it turns round the teres major, and is placed in front of that muscle at its insertion. In passing from the chest to the arm, the latissimus forms part of the posterior boundary of the axilla. Dissection of fascia lumborum. After the latissimus dorsi has been Dissection C 0