TRANSVERSALIS MUSCLE. 447 fore part of the ilium. The offsets entering the muscle must be cut. Parts covered by the internal oblique (fig. 140). The internal Parts oblique conceals the transversalis muscle, and the vessels and nerves fnternaiby between the two. Near Poupart's ligament it lies on the spermatic oblique, cord and the transversalis fascia. The rectus muscle is covered below by the aponeurosis. The TRANSVERSALIS MUSCLE (fig. 140, a) forms the third Stratum Transversa- in the wall of the abdomen, and differs from the two oblique mus- b cles in having a posterior as well as an anterior aponeurosis. Like the internal oblique it is attached on all sides, except where the spermatic cord lies. At the pelvis it arises from the outer third of origin from * x . . chest, loins Poupart s ligament, and the anterior two-thirds or. the iliac crest and pelvis along the inner border ; at the chest it takes origin by fleshy slips from the inner surface of the lower six costal cartilages ; and be- tween the chest and the pelvis it is connected with the lumbar fibres end vertebra? by means of the posterior aponeurosis or the fascia lum-in aP°neu- . rosis. borum. All the fibres are directed to the aponeurosis in front. Its anterior aponeurosis is widest in the centre, and narrowest at The aponeu- the upper end. Internally it is continued to the linea alba, pass- behindaSSeS ing beneath the rectus as low as midwav between the umbilicus and rectus, ex- v 061)1 111 the pubis, but in front of the muscle below that spot. Its attach- lower part. ment below to the pelvis is nearly the same as the internal oblique ; for it is fixed to the front of the pubis, and to the pectineal line for about an inch, but beneath the oblique muscle. Some of the fibres Fibres to end on the transversalis fascia, and are connected beneath Poupart's f™ciaVerSaliS ligament with a thickened band of that fascia which is called the deep crural arch. Action. The transversalis muscle draws downwards the lower ribs, Use- and diminishes the abdominal cavity, compressing the viscera and forcing upwards the diaphragm. Conjoined tendon. The aponeuroses of the internal oblique and At pelvis transversalis muscles are united more or less near their attachment conjoined to the pubis, and give rise to the conjoined tendon. The aponeu- tendon, rosis of the oblique muscle extends about half an inch along the pectineal line ; while that of the transversalis reaches an inch along the bony ridge, and forms the greater part of the conjoined tendon. The 'posterior aponeurosis of the transversalis, or the fascia lum- Posterior borum (c), is described in the dissection of the back, p. 386. aponemosis. Relations. Superficial to the transversalis are the two muscles Relations of before examined; and beneath it is the thin transversalis fascia, musck.1^11S Its fleshy attachments to the ribs alternate with like processes of the diaphragm ; and the highest slip joins the lower edge of the triangularis sterni muscle. The lower border of the transversalis is fleshy in the outer, but tendinous in the inner half, and is arched above the internal abdominal ring. Dissection. To remove the aponeurotic layer from the rectus Expose muscle of the right side, make a longitudinal incision through the pyramidalis. tendinous sheath, and turn it to each side. As the fascia is reflected,