THE TONSIL. 131 together with the uvula, an inclined plane, beneath which the food is directed downwards. The contraction of the salpingo-pharyngeus of salpingo- at the same time assists in opening the Eustachian tube, by drawing Pnai-ynseus- inwards and backwards the cartilage bounding its orifice. The azygos uvulae (fig. 30, d ; 31,1) is situate along the middle Azygos_ line of the velum near the posterior surface. The muscle consists two slips, of two narrow slips of pale fibres, which arise from the spine at the posterior border of the hard palate, or from the contiguous aponeu- rosis, and end below in the base of the uvula. Behind this muscle, separating it from the mucous membrane, is the thin stratum of the palato-pharyngeus. Action. Its fibres shorten the mid-part of the soft palate, and Use. elevate the uvula, directing that process backwards. The tonsil is an oval prominent body, of variable size, placed Tonsil is above the root of the tongue, in a recess between the anterior and pmars of posterior pillars of the soft palate. Externally it is covered by the fauces> superior constrictor muscle, and is opposite the angle of the lower aiMeP0Pf°Slte jaw. When enlarged it may extend backwards and press against jaw. the internal carotid artery. The surface of the tonsil is marked by apertures, which lead into structure, recesses lined by mucous membrane. Its substance consists mainly of lymphoid tissue, partly diffused, and partly collected into follicles set round the walls of these recesses. A similar collection of lym- Pharyngeal phoid tissue stretches across the ^posterior wall of the pharynx, tonsi1- between the openings of the Eustachian tubes, and is known as the pharyngeal tonsil (Luschka). The arteries of the tonsil are numerous, and are derived from the Vessels, facial, lingual, ascending pharyngeal and internal maxillary branches of the external carotid. Its veins have a plexiform arrangement on the outer side. Nerves are furnished to it from the fifth and glosso- and nerves, pharyngeal. Its lymphatics join the deep cervical glands. The mucous membrane of the pharynx is continuous in front with Mucous the lining of the nose, mouth and larynx. A fold encloses the pharynx, muscles and glands of the soft palate, from which the membrane descends on each side over the tonsil to the tongue. It is also pro- longed by the Eustachian tube to the tympanum ; and below, it is continued into the oesophagus. It is provided with numerous Glands, mucous glands in the upper part of the pharynx, and on both sur- faces, but especially the upper, of the soft palate. Another collec- tion of glands (arytenoid) is enclosed in the fold of mucous mem- brane bounding the opening of the larynx on each side. The Epithelium, epithelium is columnar and ciliated above the soft palate, but scaly and stratified below that part. Beginning of the oesophagus. This tube is much smaller than Beginning the pharynx, and the walls are flaccid. For its commencement, gu^01^" and its relations in the neck, see p. 119. The gullet consists of two layers of muscular fibres, with a lining Two layers of mucous membrane. The external layer is formed of longitudinal fibresU,SCU^ar fibres, which begin opposite the cricoid cartilage by three bundles, outer lon- an anterior and two lateral; the former is attached to the ridge at ' k 2