231 STRUCTURE OF LAMIM. stricted base of the amygdaloid lobe. It lies along the attached posterior margin of the inferior medullary velum. Structure of the Cerebellum. The interior of the cerebellum Cerebellum consists of a large white mass—the medullary centre, from which a White offsets proceed to the laminse and to other parts of the encephalon. medullary C6riur6 The medullary centre is surrounded, except in front, where the processes to other parts of the brain (peduncles of the cerebellum) issue from it, by a superficial layer of grey substance—the cortex of and grey the cerebellum ; and other small masses of grey matter are embedded x' in it. Structure of the lamince. The laminae are seen in the section that Laminae has been made of the under part of the left hemisphere to consist of externally, a grey external portion enveloping a white centre (fig. 65). The ^"j^"*6 Fig. 69.* grey matter is subdivided into two layers, the superficial of which is lighter and clear, while the deeper stratum is darker and of a rust-colour. The white part is derived from the medullary centre, which sends off numerous processes to the lobes and the bodies composing the worm, and these, dividing like the branches of a tree, end in small offsets which enter the several laminse. Dissection. For the purpose of seeing the medullary centre, with Dissec its contained corpus dentatum, remove all the laminse from the upper surface on the left side. This dissection may be accomplished by placing the scalpel in the horizontal fissure at the circumference, and carrying it inwards as far as the upper vermiform process, so as to detach the anterior and posterior lobes of the upper aspect. If the corpus dentatum does not at first appear, thin slices may be made anterior]y till it is reached. The medullary centre of the cerebellum forms a large oval mass in white each hemisphere, but is flattened and narrow in the middle between centre * View from behind of the under surface of the cerebellum, with some of the lobes removed to show the inferior medullary velum, a. Uvula. 6. In- ferior medullary velum with a bit of whale-bone under it. c. Flocculus. d. Furrowed band. e. Pyramid. /. Amygdaloid lobe, turned aside. g. Medulla oblongata raised, showing posterior surface.