311 EXTENSORS OF THUMB. The extensor primi internodii pollicis (f) is the smallest muscle of the deep layer, and its tendon accompanies that of the preceding extensor. Its origin, about one inch in width, is from the radius and the interosseous mem- brane, close below the attachment of the last muscle. The tendon passes through the same space in the annular ligament as the exten- sor of the metacarpal bone, and is inserted into the base of the first phalanx of the thumb. With respect to surrounding parts this muscle has similar relations to the preceding. Action. It extends first the proxi- mal phalanx, and then the meta- carpal bone, like its companion. The EXTENSOR SECUNDI INTER- NODII pollicis (g) arises from the middle third or more of the ulna below the anconeus, along the ulnar side of the extensor of the meta- carpal bone ; and from the interos- seous membrane below, for about an inch. Its tendon, passing through a distinct sheath in the annular ligament, is directed along the dor- sum of the thumb to be inserted into the base of the last phalanx. The belly of the muscle is covered by the extensor carpi ul- naris and the extensors of the fingers, but the tendon becomes superficial close to the wrist. Below the annular ligament its tendon crosses the extensors of the wrist and the radial artery. Action. It first extends both pha- langes of the thumb, and then helps in moving backwards the metacarpal bone and the hand. The extensor indicis (indi- cator ; h) arises on the inner side of the last muscle from the ulna for three or four inches, usually below the middle, and from the lower * Deep dissection of the back of the forearm. (Illustrations of Disscct'ons.) Muscles: a. Supinator longus. b and c. Radial extensors of the carpus, cut. ©. Supinator brev.s. e. Extensor ossis mstacarpi pollicis. p. Extensor primi internodii. g. Extensor secundi internodii. h. Extensor indicis. I. Posterior annular ligament. Arteries: a. Posterior interosseous. b. Extensor of first phalanx: