DISSECTION OF THE THIGH. 630 parts around ; Obturator externus: origin insertion. The adduc- tors cover it and it touches hip joint. Use. Detach obturator. Obturator artery- divides into two : and outer branch. fleshy iliacus (o) mainly joins the tendon of the psoas, but a few of its fibres are fixed into a special triangular surface of bone in front of and below the trochanter. Beneath the ligament the muscles occupy the interval between the ilio-pectineal eminence and the anterior superior iliac spinous process ; and below the pelvis the mass covers the capsule of the hip-joint, a large bursa intervening. On the front of the psoas is the femoral artery, and between the two muscles lies the anterior crural nerve. The pectineus and the internal circumflex vessels are con- tiguous to the inner border; and the sartorius and vastus interims touch the outer edge. Action. These muscles act as flexors of the hip-joint; and the use of the psoas on the spinal column is given with the description in the abdomen (p. 532). The obturator externus (fig. 193, f) is triangular in form, with the base at the pelvis and the apex at the femur. The fibres of the muscle take origin from the outer surface of the obturator membrane for the inner half, and from the bony circumference of the thyroid foramen for a corresponding extent,—the bony attach- ment being an inch wide opposite the body of the pubis, and reach- ing inwards to the adductor brevis and magnus. The fibres are directed backwards and outwards to be inserted by a tendon into the pit at the root of the great trochanter. This muscle is concealed by the pectineus, and adductor brevi& and magnus. It covers the obturator membrane and vessels, and is pierced by the deep part of the obturator nerve. As it winds back it is in contact with the lower surface of the hip-joint. The insertion of the muscle will be seen in the dissection of the buttock (p. 644). Action. The muscle is an external rotator of the thigh ; but its action will be given in full with the other muscles of the same group in the buttock (p. 644). Dissection. By detaching the obturator muscle from the pelvis, the branches of the artery of the same name will be seen beneath its fibres. The deep part of the nerve may be followed back to the foramen at the same time. A better view will be obtained if this dissection is deferred till after the limb is removed. The obturator artery is a branch of the internal iliac (p. 559), and enters the thigh through the top of the thyroid foramen. In the aperture the artery divides into two pieces, which form a circle on the obturator membrane beneath the muscle :— The internal piece runs along the inner half of the membrane, and furnishes offsets to the obturator externus and the upper ends of the adductor muscles. The external piece descends close to the outer edge of the foramen, and after giving a branch inwards to join the lower end of the pre- ceding, is continued to the ischial tuberosity and the muscles arising therefrom. Offsets pass to both obturator muscles ; and an articular twig is given to the hip-joint.