Volunteers. Of this I gave him a copy, when it was printed. The directions for the administration of his medicines, I trusted to his memory. All illness, I told him, — in short, every complaint, — which he could not cure with a dose of simple medicine, was of sufficient importance to be referred to the Doctor. PilulcB Colocynthidis compositce, — (formerly Pilulae Coccii:) known among the poor as ' Pilly Coashy,' and much used when opening medicine is wanted; — in pills of 5 grains. Two pills are a dose for a grown person. Jalaps — in pills of 5 grains. Two pills are a dose for a grown person. In some cases three pills may be given. Jalap is more rapid in acting than Colocynth ; but it is not bene- ficial as a medicine of frequent use, as the means for acting on the bowels. Rhubarb, — in powder. From 20 to 30 grains is a dose for a grown person. Rhubarb is not often given to grown people, leading an active life, and with healthy powers of digestion. Castor Oil, — a mild aperient, speedy in acting. A dessert spoon is generally a sufficient dose for a grown person. Those who suffer from habitual obstruction of the bowels, and in whom the action of other, or stronger, aperients is not readily borne, may want Castor Oil. A small tea-spoon before break- fast, the first thing in the morning, is generally a sufficient dose for such persons. You will have many requests for it, — difficult to be refused. It is much in favor with the poor, and often taken in large and repeated doses, when they would be better without it. It should be kept for the use of the Doctor, and not given without his desire. Pulvis Cretce compositiis, — Chalk with spices. 10 to 20 grains is a dose for a grown person, in an attack of diarrhea. Three doses may be put into a bottle: — one to be taken after each loose motion of the bowels. The powder should be made into a paste with a small tea-spooil of spirit, — such as Sherry, Whisky, or Brandy, and the water added to the paste by little and little. Peppermint water may be used, or Cam- phor Julep, in making the mixture. It would promote the cure, if the patient put his feet in hot