39 Infirmary too little, — 25 per cent, less than other customers ; and that the deficiency must be made up by other consumers. The members of the Town Council had no interest in that other question. But in this the members of the University had; for, if they could get possession of the buildings of the Infirmary, they would be spared the expense of providing a place for their younger members in sickness, — a duty of a very pressing nature, but one which they did not seem in any hurry to take on themselves. The Governors admitted that they had the means of taking in the cases of Fever; all they said was that they wanted to be paid for it. After discussion, the matter was referred to the Infectious Disease Committee for consideration. At the Board, July 1882, Mr. Hussey proposed to ask the Clerk's opinion upon a question which had been before the Board for some time, and on which there had been some differ- ence of opinion. To some extent it might touch by implica- tion the question of the duty of the Infirmary; for if the Infirmary was bound to take in these cases of Fever, the duty of this Board lay within a narrower compass. They were aware that he had persistently set before them his own opinion that the Infirmary was bound to take in the cases ; and that the refusal of the Governors to do so arose from an imperfect view of their obligations. Some members of the Board held the same opinion. It was important that these opinions should be examined ; and if erroneous, they should be corrected by sufficient authority. The Board had lately bought a piece of land on which they were going to erect wards for Small-pox. This land would answer all the pur- poses required for such cases. But if the Board is to take charge of cases of Fever, an other piece of land must be found, and an other building erected; and it ought to be at a distance, for it was not safe to allow the nurses and other attendants on cases of Small-pox to be in communication with other patients, or with those who were in attendance on them. The Report made at the last meeting of the Board had been referred to the Infectious Diseases Committee. The question of the liability of the Board would come before the