31 best he could. For others, he thought that every citizen ©f a free State ought to take upon himself some public duty. He observed that people were ready enough to make excuses for shirking pubHc duty; but nobody had a difficulty in finding time for his pleasures. He was not in the habit of taking part in political meetings ; nor had he joined any Association formed for political pur- poses. Soon after he came to reside in Oxford he witnessed a Parliamentary election, and he was much struck with one thing, — that there were no party badges, and no party colors. These were things that the best men of both parties, — if they would allow him to say so, — had long been desirous to get rid of. There was enough in a contested election to keep up ill-will without having recourse to artificial means of ex- citing it. He thought the people of this town were much in advance of those in other towns he had visited. He was sorry to say he was no longer of that opinion. Badges and colors had been introduced by a party in this City, and he thought that party had a great deal to answer for. They had not only introduced party colors; but they had done more to keep up the distinctions and dissensions of political parties. Some years ago a paper fell into his hands printed in pale blue ink; and he found in that, that everything was to be made of a political character, and nobody was to be admitted to any office unless in that character. To his surprise, he saw included in that recommendation the appointment of the Physicians and Surgeons at the Infirmary. Whatever a man's political opinions had to do with his competence to treat th© sick, he could not understand. During his recent canvass he found that the recommendation had extended to the persons known as District Visitors ; and that they had taken a part iji the election. He thought those well-meaning Ladies would do more good, and would be more entitled to respect and support, if they kept within the lines of the calling in which they had enlisted themselves, and did not meddle with mat- ters in no way connected with the benevolent purposes they professed to have in hand.