36 do so, unless the ratepayers contributed more largely. No doubt the members were aware that large sums were given to the Infirmary in the direct remission of rates and taxes. He beh'eved they had received as much as ;^8,000 of public money in that way. The motion did not raise any question of the power of the Infirmary to take in all cases requiring admission, nor of their duty to do so. The motion took that for granted. They would observe that the negociations proposed would come to nothing unless these two points were first settled, — that the Infirmary was able to take in all the cases, and were willing to do so. He said the Governors were willing; because it was their duty, and they knew it. No question was raised by the motion, of the duty of the Board, as the Sanitary Authority, to call on the Governors of the Infirmary to do their duty in the matter, and to see that they did it. That was a fit question to be considered ; but it was not then before the Board. But there was a previous question,— whether the Board was bound to pay the Infirmary for doing its duty. The motion took that for granted. He thought that in the face of the engagements undertaken by the In- firmary, and the means at the command of the Governors for fulfilling it, the Board was not justified in doing so. The Board was not distributing a benevolent fund; they were the stewards of the ratepayers. He did not call in question the power of the Board to spend the money in the manner suggested; nor did he call in question the usefulness of the purpose to which it was to be applied. But they ought to have an authoritative opinion whether there was any liability on the Board. If there was, neither the Board nor the rate- payers would object to a proper performance of the duty. But if there was no such liability, their duty to the ratepayers required that they should not give their money for the sup- port of an Institution to which the duty in question properly belonged, and the Governors of which had in their power ample means for discharging the duty. After discussion, Mr. Hussey said that reference had been made to three matters, — the trusts of the Lancashire Fund : these had been confirmed by the Charity Trustees, and the