43 A Report was received from the Infectious Diseases Com- mittee, submitting plans for a new Hospital at Cold Harbor. Mr. Hussey said he thought they should pause until they got Counsel's opinion. He should move as an amendment ' That the report be referred back to the Committee, to con- sider and report what accommodation is wanted for cases of Small-pox.' He thought the matter should stand over until the next Meeting to give them time to consider it. He thought it was the largest question that had come before them since the Drainage work. After discussion, Mr. Hussey, in reply to some remarks by Mr. W., about the spread of Small-pox in 1871, said that if the advice of the Mayor, which he had supported, had been followed, there would not have been half a dozen cases in the Town. The spread of the disease was in a great measure due to the action of the Members of the University listening to advice which was bad advice. He thought the Members of the University should have been called upon to pay the expense. Mr. Hussey's amendment was carried. At the Board, March 1883, the Report was considered. Mr. Hussey said the report was a recommendation for building a Hospital for cases of Fever. Small-pox was only incidentally mentioned in it. The question of providing for cases of Small-pox was settled 13 years ago; and a Hospital was built for that purpose. It had become necessary to move from the spot where the Hospital had stood so long; and a piece of land had been bought at Cold Harbor for the purpose of building an other Hospital for cases of Small-pox. The Board had referred the question of the kind of building to be put there to a Committee. How far the report of the Committee was an answer to the enquiry, the members of the Board would judge. He thought they should call the attention of the Committee to the question which had been referred to them. It was not actually pressing; for in 10 years there had only been five cases in the district, — the last being in 1881. But there was no reason why it should be delayed; the question might become pressing at any time. The plan of