19 it often happened, from the circumstances of the case, that the Practitioner in professional attendance on the deceased person was called to explain the cause of death, sometimes at the wish of the friends or the family of the deceased, but more commonly by desire of the Coroner. The testimony of the Practitioner was the most important evidence. The attendance at Inquests was a heavy demand on the time of a Practitioner and it was not always given very wilHngly. But the duty of all persons having a knowlege of the circum- stances to attend the enquiry, was a duty owing to the State; and witnesses did not look for payment for the discharge of a public duty. The Medical Witness Act gave the Coroner a new power to order an examination of the body of the deceased, and to summon a Practitioner as a witness ; and the payment of a fee to the Practitioner was made compulsory. By a special provision of the Statute, the Medical Officers of Public Institu- tions are not entitled to this remuneration in the case of patients who have died there. Though not entitled to a fee, they are not exempt from their duty of attending as witnesses. In the Hospitals in London, as in other large Towns, their attendance is sometimes required by the Coroner, or advised by the Governors under pressure of public opinion; and the attendance is given without hesitation. When it is likely that a charge of a criminal nature may require investigation, this is the proper course; and when a professional opinion is necessary to complete the chain of evidence, it ought to be taken from the Practitioner who, — to use professional lan- guage, — prescribed the treatment. No matter what the title of the office, or the professional designation of the officer, he is defined in the Medical Witness Act as ' the Medical Officer whose duty it may have been to attend the deceased person as a Medical Officer of the Insti- tution.' The public institutions are defined as ' any public Hospital or Infirmary, or any building or place belonging thereto, or used for the reception of the patients thereof, any County or other Lunatic Asylum, or any public Infirmary, or other public medical institution, whether supported by en- dowments or by voluntary subscriptions.'