33 made a rule of the House, according to their mode of doing business, until the Governing Body decided on it in April next. However, the Resident Officers naturally enough acted on it at once, and would not take in the patients. Some members of the Board said that, considering the uneasiness which had arisen from this action at the Infirmary, something ought to be done, and it ought to be done at once; and that in the absence of any other plan, this proposal ought to be accepted. To that reasoning he had no answer to give; but he wished that the arrangement should be temporary ; that the Governors of the Infirmary might have time to review the order of their Committee of Management, and that the objections which had been made might be fairly considered. After discussion, Mr. Hussey said it might remove mis- apprehension if he added that the Committee thought it important that the Board should decide on the principle. The Committee were free to consider all questions of detail, and especially the amount of payment. It was decided to refer the matter to the Committee, that they might make arrangements as to the amount to be paid for the patients. At the Board, May 1881, Mr. Hussey proposed that the Infirmary Committee be requested to make a report at the next meeting of the Board. He said the question of admit- ting cases of Fever had been before the Board for several years. In March 1878, a Committee of Enquiry was appointed. In May the Committee reported that the existing arrange- ments were unsatisfactory; and they were directed to continue their enquiry. In April 1880, a fresh question arose. The land on which the Hospital for Small-pox stands was wanted for the new streets being formed by St. Johns's College; and the College gave the Board notice to quit. This additional question was then referred to the Committee. But the Com- mittee have not made any further report. He proposed that the Board should call on the Committee, which had been appointed three years ago, to make a report on the result of their enquiries. It was, no doubt, desirable that when a Com- mittee was appointed, they should be left to do their work D