5 [Medical Times and Gazette^ January 1882,] down one of the arms ; and, using some considerable degree of force in the attempt at extraction, I pulled the arm off at the shoulder, without being able to move the body of the child. We next cut away a part of the ribs, and passed the perforator into the thorax, and through the diaphragm into the abdomen. This was followed by a profuse discharge of a clear watery fluid. It was evident that the obstruction arose from enlargement of the fetus; and, the dropsical fluid having been evacuated, we expected that the fetus would soon follow; but the body did not move under the expulsive pains. By drawing down the remaining arm, and folding a napkin round the shoulders, we got a firm hold, and we were able to exert a greater amount of power, and to add our efforts to those of the uterus, which was contracting actively. The mother complained severely of the pain produced by the passage of the child's body. As soon as the abdomen could be reached, I thrust the perforator through the parietes, and evacuated an other collection of clear watery fluid, as much in amount as upon the former puncture. It required the exertion of a considerable degree of force to complete the extraction. Notwithstanding the removal of the fluid by the two punctures we had made, the abdomen remained greatly dis- tended. The fetus appeared to be in the eighth month. It was without distinctive mark of sex. The external organs were not developed. The fluid in the abdomen was con- tained in cysts, of which two had been punctured during the labor. Other cysts seemed to be still distended with fluid. The origin and connexions of these were not ascertained by the partial dissection which was the only examination we had the opportunity of making. The fluid which escaped during the labor may be estimated as rather more than two pints. The placenta came away without difficulty; and the lady recovered rapidly. Her next confinement passed without anything unfavorable.