35 At the Board, December 1881, Mr. W. proposed that the Infirmary Committee be empowered to enter into negotiations with the Committee of Management of the Radcliffe Infirmary in order to secure the reception into the Infirmary of cases of Fever occurring within the district. Mr. Hussey moved as an amendment that, before giving power to a Committee to enter into such negotiations, it is desirable to know whether there is any legal liability on the part of the Board to provide for the reception of cases of Fever into the Infirmary. He said the motion v/as brought forward by two members of the University, — both of them subscribers to the Infirmary. The ' Oxford University Gazette,' the official organ of the governing body of the University, on the 14th of June last, contained a notice by the Vice-Chancellor that he had received from the Managing Committee of the Infirmary an offer to let part of their build- ings to the University for the use of the younger members in sickness: — that is, the Governors of the Infirmary, holding between 4 and 5 acres of land in trust for the sick and lame poor, and having also a funded capital between ;^50,000 and ;^60,000, all given for the same purpose, propose to let part of their buildings to the University, — a body of persons who have an income between 300,000 and 400,000 a-year, with- out having a place in which they can put one of their younger members in case of Measles. If the motion was carried, it would enable the two contracting parties to settle the terms, — of course at the expense of the ratepayers. Beyond these young men, . . . some of the persons, he supposed, to whom Mr. W. referred as ' persons without proper lodging and accommodation,' . . . there were now and then within the district some persons in want of medical treatment. For a hundred years that want had been supplied by a large charit- able institution, the Radcliffe Infirmary. In mentioning the Infirmary he did not wish to say anything in disparagement of the Institution; it had been the means of doing an im- mense amount of good in past years, and he did not doubt it would do the same in years to come; but five years ago the Managing Governors, disregarding the trusts on which their property was held, resolved that they would no longer D %