44 the Committee was too large for Small-pox, and not large enough, if cases of Fever were to be taken, in addition. It was objectionable that patients with Small-pox should be placed in the same building with general cases of Fever, or under the care of the same Nurses and attendants. It was not a settled question whether a Hospital for Small-pox should be a permanent structure, or one only to last for a shorter period, and the materials afterwards burnt and re- placed. It had been suggested to him that the Hospital should be erected on the farm at Sandford. He thought it would be too far to move the patients ; and he looked forward to the prospect of other buildings being wanted there, — as houses of observation, to which families could be removed from infected houses. He concluded by moving ' That the report be referred back to the Committee to consider and report what accommodation is wanted for cases of Small-pox.' After discussion, Mr. Hussey said the principle of admitting cases of Small-pox need not be discussed. It had been settled 13 years ago; and no objection had ever been raised to the Board undertaking the duty of providing for such cases. It was made an objection to the site at Cold Harbor, that there would be delay in moving the patients. He thought that would not happen now. It was a new duty when undertaken 12 years ago. It was better known now; and the means of moving patients were better understood. He did not think the patients would suffer. Vaccination was urged, as though it would supersede the duty in question. As a Medical Practitioner, he was not unobservant of the opposition raised to Vaccination; and he was not without fear that it might tend to the spread of Small-pox, and to render the action of the Board more necessary for the safety of the community. He agreed with Mr. M. that the site in Cold Harbor, which had been bought for a Small-pox Hospital, was objectionable for a Hospital for cases of Fever. But the question now before the Board was providing only for cases of Small-pox. The opinion of Counsel, which had been read, did not touch that question : it referred only to cases of Fever. The motion was lost.