10 DR. GILES. [133. 138. 140. 218,9.] Dr. Richard Giles, who had practised for 35 years in Oxford, died at Torquay on the 8th of August, 1882, in his 68th year, from disease of the heart of long standing. He was born in a village near Oxford. His father was a member of the Cor- poration of that City, and died with phthisis in mid-life. Dr. Giles's professional education was commenced under a firm of Practitioners at Thame, in the work of a large and varied practise extending over a wide district. He there acquired a familiarity with the wants of the sick-room, with- out which the treatment advised by experience is seldom carried on with success. Proceeding to Edinburgh, he entered the classes in the Medical Faculty of the University; and after taking in due course the degree of M.D. in the Univer- sity, he proceeded to Paris, where he spent a further period of study at the hospitals of that city. He returned eventually to Oxford, with the view of practis- ing as a Physician. He used to tell of his first case, that the patient died suddenly, and the Coroner held an enquiry; the second patient who came to consult him was the foreman of the jury who sat upon the inquest. He gained at an early period the favorable opinion of his seniors in the profession ; and he quickly established himself firmly in the confidence of a large and increasing circle in and around the city. From much that was profitable in practise near home, he was at that time excluded by the circumstance of his being connected with the City, rather than with the University ; and he lacked also the advantage that graduation in the University gives a man in gaining introduction into the inner society of that famous and wealthy body. Dr. Giles possessed in a remarkable degree a quality which is of value in every walk of life, and in none more than in our profession,—that of relying on his own judgement in the exercise of his calling. In forming his diagnosis at the bed- side, and in obtaining by examination of his patient the full information of his case, from which alone a correct diagnosis