17 appointment should be made by the Court of Quarter Sessions, — on the principle that the local authority, which makes the payment for the work done, is the proper body for appointing the officer who does the work. In Boroughs, where the Town Council have the right to elect their more important officer, the Mayor, there is no visible reason why they should not also continue to elect the Coroner. Upon the question of qualification, it should be observed that no test of professional fitness is required of a Mayor, or a Justice of the Peace, nor of a Sheriff, or Under-sheriff; — that the greater number of the Coroners in England are either professional Lawyers or Medical Practitioners; that the Deputy appointed by a Coroner for a County must be approved by the Lord Chancellor; and that successive Chancellors have laid down a rule that the Deputy must be a Lawyer or a Medical Practitioner.. . . Under the Irish Coroners Act of 1881, it is required that every Coroner in Ireland shall be a Medical Practitioner, a Barrister or Solicitor, or a Justice of the Peace. It would be well, perhaps, if the same control over the appointment of a Deputy by the Coroner of a Borough was given to the Lord Chancellor; and also that the Coroner of a Borough should have as full power of acting by Deputy as the Coroners for a County have. It was proposed by a Committee of the House of Commons that the number of Jurors to agree in a Verdict should be nine. In some of the Colonies, seven is the number required. In the United States of America, six is sufficient In actions tried in the County Courts, five is the number required for a Jury: in some Manor Courts even less. In the High Court of Justice, the Judges have adopted what has always been the practise in Chancery, that of hearing causes without a Jury. It follows, of course, that if less than twelve are required to find a verdict, the Inquisition can not be taken as a Bill of Indictment, on which an accused person should be put on his trial. If the Jurors are taken only from the recognized lists of qualified persons, it will not always be easy, — even in thickly peopled places, — to find the full number required for an Inquest. C