49 1. I do not think the * glass and glare' system of' Pavilions' is the best form of Hospital. The light in the wards is too strong for cases of acute disease, — especially when at the feet, as in every bed: at St. Bartholomew's Hospital only half the beds in a ward stand so. The outer walls and the roof are too thin to keep out the cold; and artificial heating is wanted. This (say what you will,) is supplied by shutting the doors and windows, — thus keeping out the fresh air. The distance the Officers have to walk to and from the different parts, leads (I fear,) to a less frequent inspection of the wards. I do not think the numerous covered ways, connecting the ' units,' tend to the circulation of a sufficiency of fresh air : I fear they are often receptacles of very different stuff. 2. I have not seen any arrangement for fresh air so good as that by doors, windows, and fire-places. I have no doubt that a competent ' Resident Medical Officer' is able to keep any ward in his Hospital sweet and warm. But in that large part of the twenty-four hours when he is not in the ward, will the ward be kept in a state to please him ? Will the artificial system be kept in working order by the Nurses and servants generally attending in our Hospitals ? 3. Is a large collection of Children desirable, — whether at school, in Hospital, or at an Exhibition? 'Nature' allows the collection only to the extent to which one Mother can bear them. If more are brought together, — especially when sick, — is not the collection itself a source of danger, and one wanting more than usual care ? Upon construction generally, I have heard an objection to double walls with space inside, that the joists pass into the hollow, and when the timber shrinks, the air from the hollow passes into the room under the skirting-board. The outer walls should be built strong enough to bear a floor above, — in case it should hereafter be wanted. The additional thick- ness will help to warm the wards, by keeping off the outer atmosphere. No window, as far as I have seen, keeps out the cold so well as the English 'sash/—or, indeed, lets in fresh air so readily. At Littlemore, Mr. Ley had some windows made with three sashes in the frame; each sash of full size. Any E