45 When the Report was under discussion, Mr. Hussey said that from the opinion given by Counsel it seemed clear that the trusts which had been supposed to exist at the Infirmary for the sick poor could not be enforced by process of law; as the engagements undertaken by the Governors had not been made by formal legal documents. One important matter was therefore settled. It now became a question whether the Board should undertake the care of persons suffering under Fever. There was no duty on the subject which could be enforced by legal process against the Board, any more than in the case of markets, public baths, or other useful works. But the Board had power in all these cases, if they were willing to undertake the duty; and they had not yet had the question before them. If they decided to undertake the duty, it was open to them to agree with the Infirmary, if the In- firmary had the power to make a proper agreement. He thought that it would be to the advantage of the Board to pay a large annual sum for the accommodation, leaving all matters of management and detail to the Infirmary, if the Committee were willing to undertake the office. If such an agreement could be made, he thought that upon making so large a contribution from the rates the ratepayers ought to have a voice in the management, and that the Board should name a certain number of the members of the Committee. Failing such an arrangement, the question arose of building a Hospital. If this should be at Cold Harbor, he thought that the piece of ground which had been bought was not enough, and that more land should be obtained before they began to build. Besides^ where would they, in that case, put the patients with Small-pox ; for they ought not to be under the same roof, or under the care of the same attendants. He thought the size of the Hospital should be considered; that is, whom did they propose to admit ? — all classes of paying patients, or only those 'without proper lodging and accom- modation ?' What kinds of Fever should be taken ? — only continued Fever, as Typhus and Typhoid, or Scarlet Fever, Erysipelas, and even Measles. What medical attendance should be provided? Was the Board to provide that, or should the patients name their own medical attendant ? The