46 same of nurses. The friends of patients might be admitted to attend as nurses; if so, more accommodation would be required. The Steward would be an important Officer; and much accommodation would be wanted for his department. He thought an estimate of the probable yearly outlay should be given before they decided upon the question ; and he proposed that the further consideration of the Report be put off till the next meeting. Upon a motion proposed that the question should be adjourned for two months, Mr. Hussey repeated that the question whether they should establish a Hospital for cases of Fever had never been before the Board. He was a member of a Committee, to which some of the questions had been referred. But the Committee did not meet; and he had not the power to call them together. The Report now before the Board was from a Committee consisting of 14 members; and if more than 5 joined in it, he did not know who they were. As a member of the Committee, he could say that they never considered the question referred to them; and when he pointed out that the question was only for cases of Small-pox, the Committee refused to go into that. He had supposed formerly that there was a legal obligation on the Board to provide for these cases of Fever; but he had lately been informed that there was no such duty which could be enforced by legal process. The Chairman had spoken of a ' moral obligation.' He thought the less they heard of ' moral obligations' from Governors of the Infirmary the better. Was there no moral obligation on them who held 5 acres of land, and ;f50,000 funded capital, for the use of the sick poor ? was there no ' moral obligation' on the University, with so many of their members scattered about the town in lodgings? They had been inspecting lodgings, and ordering work to be done; but they did nothing for the sick. While the public schools, and many private schools, had a separate house to which they could send their pupils in case of sickness, the University, with an income between ;^300,000 and ^400,000, had nothing of the kind. He had brought the subject under the notice of the Vice- Chancellor eight years ago; but nothing was done. The