37 Infirmary were bound to take in all cases of Fever within the district. Mr. W. —To the extent of ^36 a year. Mr. Hussey, — Not so ; they were bound to take in all that applied for admission, without turns of recommendation, and free of all payment. There was no restriction. The value of the fund had been calculated upon niggardly pecuniary principles. If the Trustees had kept the fund in their own hands, the yearly dividends would have given the right to send in 26 cases a-year; and taking one year with an other, that would have been all that was wanted. It had been said they ought to contribute to the Infirmary, because the Governors said they were in debt. He asked, who was the creditor ? Nobody pretended to be able to tell who the creditor was ; and when the present Treasurer took office on the 1st of January, a balance of £^95 was handed over to him. An other subject had been introduced, — the opinion given by the Clerk, and contained in a report of a Committee in June last. The report was made with the assent of 4 or 5 only of the members of a Committee, consisting of 13 members; and it did not touch the question of the duty of the Infirmary to the sick. A proper question would have been. What are the duties of the Infirmary, in case of patients with Fever applying for admission ? If the Managers refuse to acknow- lege their obligation, are there any means to enforce it at law? and if so, who are the parties to put the law in force? That question was not put to the Clerk. The amendment was lost, and the Motion was carried. At the Board, June 1882, the Committee made a report, recommending that the terms proposed by the Infirmary should be accepted. Mr. Hussey said it was a proposal to vote a sum of money from the rates, to be paid to the Infirmary, for work which had been done for a hundred years without payment, — that is, without direct payment. There was no legal liability on the Board to make the payment; and it was remarkable that those who brought it forward did not show there the same activity and determination which they had shown in an other place, as well as on other occasions, to protect the ratepayers from illegal impositions and unjust