38 charges. The ratepayers were not to have a voice in the management of the Infirmary. It was a maxim that taxation without representation is tyranny. Under the instructions given to the Committee, it was their duty to point out to the Managers of the Infirmary what their duty was, not only under the Lancashire Fund, nor under that larger sum which was raised by a public collection, and given to the Governors on the faith of their word that the money was wanted, and would be laid out in building wards for the free admission of cases of Fever, but in respect of the land they held, and the capital accumulated, — all of which was held under legal instruments of trust, for the use of' the sick and infirm poor being objects of charity.' Were undergraduates and sons and daughters of Professors, or the female students of the ladies' colleges, such objects ? Yet these were taken into the Infirmary as patients. The question of taking in patients to pay was much opposed; and twelve years ago the Governors took the opinion of Counsel. They were advised they could not do it. The question dropped ; but it was now raised again. The conclusion from the report was that the Governors repudiated their obligations, and were to be re- leased from them, — as far as could be, — by a vote of the Board, that the duty might be taken by the Board, and the expense thrown on the ratepayers, . . . those poor persons whose case had often been put before them in a very touching manner. He was astonished that the Managers of a Charit- able Institution should be ready to take money which was not given willingly; but which was wrung by compulsion from these poor ratepayers. He adopted Mr. W.'s reasoning at the last meeting of the Board upon the expense charged by the Town Council for the water, —' that the Governors of the Infirmary were in the position of persons having an important article of public consumption to contract for, with the exceptional privilege of coming to the Board with voting power at their backs, and saying, " You shall vote this con- tract at this figure." If an other contractor came with votes at his back, what answer would they give him ? ' In suggest- ing that the Town Council charged the Board too much for the water, Mr. W. did not tell them that they charged the