8 with one of his relations. In his play, he seized a shawl which was on the sofa, put it to his mouth, and bit it. At the same moment he was attacked with a fit of spasmodic coughing ; and a bronze halfpenny, which was observed to be upon the shawl, was suddenly drawn into his mouth, carried backwards during a forced inspiration, and sucked down un- intentionally. Some check in the breathing came on, and the child turned blue in the face. The father passed his fingers to the back of the throat, and tried to extract the coin. He could feel the edge of it with the tip of his finger ; but he was not able to lay hold of it, and remove it. Dr. McFadden, who lived near, made an attempt to extract the coin with forceps. But the coin escaped from the instru- ment, and passed downwards. A piece of biscuit was after- wards taken by the child, and swallowed without difificulty. The next day was passed without anything to be remarked. The third day the child complained of pain, and was con- tinually putting his hand to the pit of his stomach, as the place where he felt the pain. Vomiting after taking food and after the paroxysms of coughing became more frequent. The child lost flesh and became much weakened. He could only retain a very small portion of food at a time. Under direc- tions given by Dr. Jenkins, the mother examined carefully all the matter vomited, and also whatever passed the bowels. On the morning of October 12, after breakfast, the child vomited the contents of his stomach. In the matter vomited the mother observed a solid substance, dark in color, and thickly coated. She put it into water, and after much wash- ing she found it to be the missing halfpenny. It was much corroded, but the distinctive features of the coin were visible on both sides. The child did not suffer any further inconvenience. [Medical Tmies and Gazette, February 1882.] POISONING BY YELLOW ACONITE. A Correspondent sends the following: — 'A Lady had a bunch of freshly cut flowers of the yellow aconite in a glass of