42 point out what are the means for compelling performance of the trusts. He hoped the Board would not think it necessary to add that. He would not suggest that there would be any backwardness in performing trusts, when once understood. He hoped that, when the nature of the trusts was clearly seen, the duties would be readily undertaken, and that the two bodies would act hand in hand for the common good of the district. After discussion, Mr. Hussey said he had for six years taken advantage of every form to bring the question under the consideration of the Board, and to settle it; and he had found the most determined obstruction. Mr. W. told them the Infirmary had not sufficient income for the work they did. Mr. Hussey said this was always being said. As a matter of fact, when the present Treasurer took office, a balance of £^95 cash was handed over to him. On the 1st of January, 1882, he had a balance in hand of ;^931; and on the 1st of January in the present year it was ;^399 ISs. lid. They were told it was impossible for the Infirmary to provide for all cases. Yet the Medical Officers of the Infirmary, with an experience as Practitioners from 20 to 40 years, gave their opinion to the Governors that the accommodation provided was sufficient, — not, perhaps, for Undergraduates, but for all those who generally seek admission, — the persons without proper lodg- ing and accommodation, whose rights the Board was especially bound to guard; and he never heard of any case of Fever which had been refused for want of room. The Governors of the Infirmary had twice taken the opinion of Counsel ; and both times the opinion was against them. When it was pro- posed to build the new Fever wards, the Treasurer told the Governors that they were obliged, under the conditions on which they had received benefactions, to provide for contagi- ous diseases; and in 1870 the Committee recorded their desire to make immediate arrangements for the purpose. No question of the duty to do so was raised until 1876, when the Governors for the first time refused to receive such cases unless they were paid for them. The recommendation of the Committee was adopted.