54 in 1865. The Beds remained sideways along the walls, shut off from one an other by wooden partitions: the last of the partitions were removed after I was appointed Surgeon. At that time many of the large window-sashes did not open. The ^ ventilators over the windows,' are, I suppose, the small holes on the inside, — opening by some indirect way to the outside. Some were undoubtedly open : for I have heard of a bird falling through into the ward. But others were blocked. I was never satisfied that they let fresh air into the ward, or let the foul air out. With this I venture to send you a volume of my work. You will find how much I labored in the cause: and though not without some success, yet not a full measure of it. 13 May 1885. [7. 60. 274. 281. 290. 330. 344. 367. 371.] The Register of Operations, — as well as the Register of Admissions, and the Register of Deaths, — was kept carefully and properly by Mr. Briscoe, during the time he was the House-Surgeon : and I believe the Register of Operations to be a faithful record of that part of the practise of the Surgeons. I do not give the same praise to the manner in which the Registers were afterwards kept. When the Rules for consult- ations were altered in 1860, additional particulars of the cases under operation were ordered by the Governors to be added to the Reports in the Register. The first operation which came under the Rules, was in a case under my care. I drew out the notes of the case, for registry in the terms required by the new Rules; and I gave the paper to the House- Surgeon to be entered in the Register. I found afterwards that he had not done as I desired : instead of entering the case, as was his duty under my directions, he had put in the book a report of the case, which he had prepared himself without communication with me. On an occasion when the Committee were making enquiry into the circumstances of some late cases, my attendance was desired ; and the Chairman read to me, from the Register of