41 mittee met once a month, and the Officers of the Board attended the meetings. An amendment was carried that the question should be referred to a Special Committee. It was not necessary for him to pursue the question fully; for in June 1880 the Governors of the Infirmary themselves referred it to the Charity Commissioners. In July 1881 he proposed that the question of the accommodation in the district for patients with Fever should be referred to the Nuisance Re- moval Committee. An amendment was again carried, to refer it to a Special Committee. The whole question, as it seemed to him, might be investigated fully in six months, and a report made, on which the Board could decide finally. He concluded by moving that every Committee shall have power to meet upon the request of the Chairman of the Board, or of any two members of the Committee. The motion was carried. At the Board, February 1883, a report was received from the Nuisance Removal Committee recommending that the opinion of Counsel be taken on the liability of the Governors of the Radcliffe Infirmary to admit patients with infectious Fever, and to treat them gratuitously. Mr. Hussey said the Nuisance Removal Committee was the largest of the Committees, with the most important duties and the fullest powers. When they considered the large pecuniary stake involved, and the length of time the question had been under discussion, it was not unreasonable to hope that the Board would adopt the recommendation of the Com- mittee, and agree to take what he thought was a very long step toward the settlement of a troublesome question. The object was to submit to Counsel, as an independent person, accustomed to consider the effect of written documents, and questions of interpretation arising under them, and to have his opinion whether certain trusts which he (Mr. Hussey) and others alleged had been established at the Infirmary for the benefit of the sick poor did really exist, or whether, as others thought, the Infirmary was a voluntary institution, and the Governors had the right to do what they would with their own. It would be easy to go farther, and asked Counsel to