16 that they shall be taken from the Jurors' book in a County, and from the Burgess-roll in a Borough; — that the power of the Jury to put questions shall be abolished, and that no tes- timony but what is legal evidence shall be admitted during the enquiry; — that no accused person shall be tried upon an In- quisition found against him;—that a qualification, or evidence of professional fitness, shall be required of all Coroners; — and that the Coroners shall not be elected by the Freeholders in a County, nor by the Town Council in a Borough. We have not been told that the Justices of the Peace are willing to undertake the duty of making the enquiry, or that the friends of a deceased person will find the attendance at a Police Court, or at Petty Sessions, less unpleasant than at an enquiry before a Coroner. The attendance, it can hardly be doubted, will be more burdensome to the family of the de- ceased, the time given to the proceedings will in most cases be longer, and the costs of the enquiry will be greater. It would be but a slight alteration of the present mode of procedure if the Coroner, — who is by office a Conservator of the Peace, — should be declared to have the powers of a Justice of the Peace, for the purposes of the enquiry. The view, it must be borne in mind, is for the discovery and for the identity of the body. This ought to be the duty of a recognized officer. The Coroner is the officer to whom the duty is committed; the Jury are the witnesses of the judicial act, and neither they nor the Coroner can be excused from the proper and orderly performance of the duty. The body is present; and the enquiry, as a judicial proceeding, becomes worthless without the view. In cases of suspicion, unless the cause of death is found by judicial enquiry, a man ought not to be put on his trial for homicide ; nor, if registration of the causes of death is desirable, ought the death to be registered without it. If the identity of the body, and the cause of death, are not found before burial of the remains, the evidence can hardly be found satisfactorily afterwards. There is a general concurrence of opinion that the Coroners for a County should not be elected by the Freeholders at large. But there is not the same agreement on the question how they ought to be elected. It has been proposed that the