80 In an action against the printer of a newspaper for libel on a Coroner, in publishing some comments on an Inquest, the Judge several times interrupted the proceedings with remarks of his own. ' I would ask your Lordship,' said the Counsel for the Coroner, ' to abstain from such remarks while the case is proceeding.' The Judge continued; and repeated some observations of the Coroner, reported as objectionable. Counsel replied, ' I have heard Judges in the Superior Courts make remarks quite as offensive as that complained of In addressing the Jury, at the end of the case, Counsel said, ' It was not unusual even in the Superior Courts to hear a Witness interrupted: and he had heard such things as Judges in the Superior Courts interpose, and tell anecdotes, and refer to personal experiences; and he had, moreover, seen displays of temper running through a whole trial, until the enquiry had been disfigured.' — (^CanterbiLry Press, 24 May 1884.) At a meeting of the South Ward Association, in October 1876, Mr. Hussey said he had lately read some lines in a newspaper, which, he thought, gave good advice to public speakers. If they did not agree with him that the advice was good, he hoped, at all events, that they would allow him to follow it. Whatever you have to say, my friend, Whether witty, or grave, or gay, Condense it as much as ever you can, And say it in the readiest way. He came before them as a Member of the Medical Profes- fession: there had not been one in the Town Council within his memory. He could only suppose that the Burgesses did not like Medical men, and would not put one of them into the Council. Yet he could not help thinking that in many ques- tions, the opinion and experience of a Member of the Medical Profession might be found useful. They were aware that two years ago he was a Candidate for this Ward. Whilst he was canvassing he had a question put to him; ' How is it a Medical man can do his duties if elected ?' For himself, all he could say was that if they returned him, he would do the