40 Committee ; and he asked that the Committee should be allowed to have the benefit of Mr. Morrell's opinion, to guide them in a question of great importance, and one which ought to be settled before any attempt was made to negotiate with the Managers of the Infirmary. He was ready to be guided by those who were more competent than himself to form an opinion; and he thought the Managers of the Infirmary would do the same, and with that liberality, and that sense of justice, which generally ruled in Institutions of that nature, he thought they would be disposed to return to the former practice; and that they would see the propriety of cancelling an order which had given rise to some unpleasant discussion. He concluded by moving, — That the Clerk be requested to consider and advise what is the duty of the Board toward persons without proper lodging and accommodation applying for admission into the Radcliffe Infirmary in cases of Fever; and, if such persons are refused admission, are there any means of enforcing it ? The motion was agreed to without discussion. At the Board, September 1882, Mr. Hussey said that in public bodies it was generally found to be an advantage that the proposer of a motion should name the Committee, and should have some kind of power in calling the Committee together, and in suggesting a line of enquiry. But no such power existed at that Board. On referring to the rules for the transaction of business, they would see that, though the Board met regularly, any five members could call a meeting of the Board : the case of Committees was overlooked. There was no time appointed for their meetings; nor were the Officers of the Board bound to attend. He did not wish to cast any imputation on the Committees, nor on the way in which they did their work. He only suggested that greater facilities should be given, under which their work could be done more expeditiously. He would give an instance in the question he had brought before them, of the right of patients with Fever to be received into the Infirmary. In March 1878, he proposed that the case of the Lancashire Fund should be referred to the Nuisance Removal Committee. That Com-