BRONCHOTOMY. 512 tomy ; and^ if other means failed, no surgeon would be justified in neglecting to operate. Having determined, then, that there is a foreign body in the air tube, the surgeon should endeavour to ascertain its size, form, situation ; also, whether it is loose or fixed. Its situation may be evinced by local pain, but this is not always present, even though the form and nature of the substance render it irritating. These particulars may serve to modify the operation in some degree, but it should be immediately performed, in the man- ner to be hereafter detailed. II. In acute diseases of the windpipe. 1. Idiopathic. 1. Acute laryngitis.—In this disease bron- chotomy has been both frequently recom- mended, and successfully practised. But as some say it is not be performed till every other remedy has failed ; others insist on the danger of regarding it as an ultimum reme- dium, and Dr. Baillie gives a fixed time for its performance ; it may be well to consider the circumstances under which it is indicated. The general symptoms of laryngitis are dyspnoea on inspiration,—stridor more audible at a little distance from the patient than with the stethoscope,—the voice very hoarse, or reduced to a low whisper,—harsh and spas- modic cough,—often pain in the region of the larynx, much increased on swallowing, with violent symptomatic fever, and probably no signs of disease in any other part of the re- spiratory system. These effects are produced either by the mechanical obstruction caused by the congested state of the mucous mem- brane, or by irritation exciting spasm of the glottis. Bronchotomy, by allowing the free passage of air, affords immediate relief, and by bringing the inflamed part to a state of rest, removes one great obstacle to the successful treatment of the disease. It should not be undertaken, however, till it appears that not- withstanding the free use of the lancet, calomel, opium, &c., the stridor is severe and increas- ing, and the other symptoms, especially the condition of the surface, contra-indicate fur- ther depletion. Dr. Baillie’s rule, to wait thirty hours to try the effect of bleeding and opium, appears injudicious, as it would be madness to delay the operation when asphyxia is imminent: and, on the other hand, rash to operate if the face and lips continued of a good colour, the surface warm, and no symp- toms were present indicating cerebral conges- tion, or threatened asphyxia. We may say, then, that bronchotomy should be performed early in the disease ; but not until bleeding, &c., has had a fair trial, unless we are called in at such a period of the case when suffocation is threatened, and it is too late to commence with the usual treatment. If it be delayed too long it will be useless, and only tend to bring disgrace on the opera- tor and the operation itself. If we find the patient becoming exhausted, his voice failing, dyspnoea and cough increasing, the blood imperfectly artcrialized, face and lips livid, eyes projecting and watering, further depletion or delay would be highly repre- hensible, and the operation should be imme- diately performed, as it affords the only rea- sonable hope of safety. So much for pure laryngitis. The opera- tion would be improper in a case complicated with extensive bronchitis, and effusion into the tubes. But it does not follow that even the coexistence of important pulmonary disease should absolutely forbid its performance, though it should, of course, materially influ- ence the prognosis. For though a perfect cure may be next to impossible, the operation will probably greatly mitigate the distress and prolong life for some days, or even weeks, which in many cases would be of the greatest importance. (2) Acute cynanche trachealis: croup.— Much has been said in favour of bronchotomy in this disease, and cases have been recorded where it was performed with complete suc- cess. In one of Mr. Chevalier’s cases it was successful, though the countenance was livid, cold sweats came on, and the patient was rapidly sinking. Mr. Chevalier thinks that the effusion of lymph is seldom sufficient to produce suffocation, which he supposes is owing to the accumulation of mucus super- added, preventing the patient from emptying the branches of the bronchi in coughing : and that the operation is useful by enabling the patient so to cough as to empty them. Louis has pointed out the danger of regarding the operation as an extreme measure, and thinks its performance ought to be a general prac- tice. Sir C. Bell also favours it, on the ground that the lymph acts as a foreign body in oc- casioning spasms of the glottis, consequent obstruction of the passage, and confinement of the mucus. Michaelis advised its early performance as a convenient mode of remov- ing the effused lymph. Lastly, Bretonneau has proposed the operation for the purpose of making topical applications to the affected surface. He narrates cases where recovery followed this plan ; but Dr. Stokes believes the recovery should be attributed to the gra- dual decline of the disease, in a patient whose immediate death was prevented by tracheo- tomy. On the other hand, Dr. Cheyne has urged, that the existence of the false membrane in the larynx is not in general the cause of the patient’s death ; and he has proved by dissec- tion, that in many cases a space is left for a current of air sufficient to support life. He also thinks the operation unadvisable, because when the membrane of croup fully formed is expectorated the disease is generally fatal, even when all the benefits of the operation have been thus obtained. A very strong ob- jection may be founded on a statement by Goelis, who after having made forty-three public dissections of children who had died of croup says, “ pseudo-membranse sedes varim partes trachea; ct bronchia; sunt, majorem