463 BANDAGE. of compression in surgical therapeutics, sec that article); also to give support in cases where some pressure is requisite. The spiral with reverses and many-tailed bandages (Figs. 130 and 132), are of general utility as compressing bandages. In employ- ing the former for this purpose, it is necessary to watch its effects carefully, and remove it if much swelling should come on, as gangrene may result from long continued unequal com- pression. When a high degree of compres- sion is attempted, the fingers and toes should first he encircled by narrow rollers. And if lotions are required whilst a bandage is applied to a limb, the rollers should be soaked in them previously, as moisture causes the stulf to con- tract, and without this precaution, a greater constriction might be produced than was intended. The prolonged application of a bandage, pressing equally upon a part, so as not to im- pede the circulation materially, will cause a dry scurfy state of the skin, and diminish the bulk of a limb considerably; a circumstance of which advantage has been taken in the army, to obtain an exemption from military duty. The employment of a bandage round a joint, also, too long persevered in, may produce a stiffness not easily overcome. A circular bandage made with a double- headed roller, answers well as a compressing bandage for the head and trunk ; it is seen applied to the chest (Fig. 140). The middle of the roller being placed on the surface opposite to the seat of injury, the heads are carried round in contrary directions; at the points where they meet, however, an inconvenient roping of the bandage will occur, unless provided against by the following man- oeuvre, a kind of reverse ; as they cross, let the undermost roller take an oblique direction downwards, continuing the superficial roller onwards ; then by a turn over the latter, the first is made to resume its horizontal course evenly. This bandage may be applied with any degree of tightness, and the reverses give it great solidity. It is used to restrain haemor- rhage from wounded arterial branches in those parts of the scalp within its range, to restrict the movement of the chest in fracture of the ribs, and for other general purposes of com- pression over the head and trunk. Compressing bandages for particular pur- poses.—The nodose or radiated bandage for the head (stella, fascia nodosa, of the older writers; nceud d'cmballeur of the French), Fig. 144, is emploved to suppress haemorrhage from the trunk of the temporal artery. The vessel having been completely divided, and a compress placed upon the orifice, a double- headed roller is passed several times rather tightly round the head ; the two heads of the roller are then crossed over the temple, so as to form a knot upon the compress ; one is brought under the chin, the other over the crown, and on meeting at the wounded temple they are crossed again to form a second knot; this may be repeated three or four times if Fig. 144. necessary, and the remainder of the roller afterwards carried round the head, to act pretty firmly on the knots and compress. The reflex bandage for the head (capelina of Hippocrates, capeline de la tete of the French) was formerly a subsidiary remedy in hydrocephalus. It is retained in several mo- dern'works as a compressing bandage to the head, but owes its celebrity more to the elegance of its appearance than its utility. It does not deserve the trouble of description or application. Compression may be exerted in the cavity of the axilla, by the figure of 8 bandage, spica axillae, and a compress. The compress being placed over the bleed- ing vessel, or the sinus, a single-headed roller is carried beneath the axilla, and round the neck, in the form of a figure of 8. In fracture of the ribs, besides the circular bandage described above, a belt of webbing (Fig. 145) furnished at one end with four or Fig. 145. five buckles, and at the other with as many straps, is employed to suspend the movement of the chest in respiration. It is more com- pact and effective than the double-headed roller. Compression may be best exercised upon the abdominal regions by means of a belt partly composed of clastic gum webbing.