ALVINE CONCRETION. 66 and easily made to bleed ; and also in the soft, moist excrescences that arise in the neighbourhood of the anus, and on the lips and inside of the prepuce. When used for this purpose, the parts are slightly powdered over with it ; its action as an escharotic, how- ever, is too feeble to be relied on. ( Wm. B. Costello.) ALVEOLES. The cavities in the alveolar rocess of the superior and inferior maxillary ones, in which the roots of the teeth are in- serted. For an account of the diseases of this part, which are intimately connected with those of the teeth, see “ Teeth, Diseases of.” (T. Bell.) ALVINE, or ALIMENTARY CON- CRETION. A section only of the general subject of foreign bodies is treated of under this head ; namely those to be described here- after, which are developed in the intestines. The qualitative term “ alimentary” will be sufficient to show that we do not in this article include biliary concretions, which are very different in their nature and origin. Mention however will be made of them inci- dentally as they may become nuclei ot the ali- mentary concretion, strictly so called. Substances of this description have been oc- casionally found within the stomach or intes- tines of man or quadrupeds after death ; or they have been discharged during life by the effort of vomiting, or by straining at stool. Such substances are not equally common in every part of the alimentary tube ; their most common seat is at the commencement of the larger intestine, near to its termination in the anus, or in the segmoid flexure of the colon, where they have been frequently lodged for a very considerable time, obstructing, to more or less extent, the passage of the faecal matter, thereby deranging the functions of the diges- tive apparatus, and ultimately causing great distension of the bowels, which is often suc- ceeded by acute pain, febrile symptoms, in- flammation, ulceration, and the death ol the animal. It may perhaps be objected to the term alvine that it conveys an imperfect idea of the seat of the obstruction, which is not invariably in the alvus or belly, so that if the term ali- mentary were substituted for alvine, a more accurate idea would be formed of the seat of the affection. We speak of salivary, biliary, pancreatic, prostatic, and urinary concretions ; and we speak of concretions being seated in the gall- bladder or biliary ducts, of urinary concre- tions in the kidney, ureter, bladder, or ure- thra, and therefore we should speak of alimen- tary concretions in the throat, stomach, and the small and large intestines. Dr. Mason Good, in his Nosology, (page 50,) speaks of enterolithes, from the Greek word syrtpoy, and he makes mention of stony concretions in the stomach or intestinal canal. But his no- menclature appears to me exceptionable, be- cause it seems to me to convey an incorrect idea of the nature of these substances, which, it might be inferred from his note, are formed by a morbid action occasioning the deposition of lime. He says, “ Almost all animals are endued with a power of separating or secreting lime and other earths from the blood for par- ticular purposes; as that of forming a shell-co- vering in insects and worms, and of giving hardness to the bones in other animals. Under a morbid action of single organs, or of the system generally, this is often secreted in an undue quantity, and poured forth into cavities where its accumulation and crystallization must be attended with mischief. Such, at times, is the case in respect to the stomach and intestines.” I have not had the opportunity of examin- ing any concretion found in the alimentary canal which falls precisely under the descrip- tion of enterolithes given by Dr. Good. It should be observed that the inferior animals, from the nature of their food and their cover- ings, are much more liable to this affection than man. These concretions are by no means unfrequent amongst horses, oxen, deer, and other quadrupeds that live on grass and other vegetable matter ; and, on ~the other hand, as far as I know, they never occur amongst carnivorous animals. That their production also is connected with the cover- ing of the animal is obvious from the fact that those concretions or balls, as they are commonly called, are by no means uncom- monly met with in the stomachs of horses, oxen, calves, and deer, and these are found to be composed chiefly of hairs corresponding in all respects to those on the skin of the animal, and cemented together by the mucus and saliva of the throat. That the kind of food gives a predisposition to the formation of these extra- neous bodies, may be inferred from the cir- cumstance that such concretions are much more common in Scotland than in any other part of Europe, oaten bread constituting a prin- cipal part of the food of the inhabitants of many parts of this country: a conclusion which seems to derive support from the fact, that these concretions have been but rarely spoken of by the medical authors of Holland, Prus- sia, Italy, France, Germany, and England. The museum at Leyden, formed ot the joint anatomical collections ot Rau, Albinus, Lede- boer. Van Doeveren, and part of the museum of Ruysch, and of the numerous dissections of the pupils of that school, contains, according to Dr. Edward Sandifort, only one specimen of an alvine concretion, and that was found in the ilium. Dr. Walter of Berlin has published, in three large quarto volumes, a descriptive cata- logue of the Anatomical Museum which he sold to the King of Prussia, but has described only one case in which he met with an alvine concretion, “ qui inter membranam muscula- rem et nerveam ventriculi hsesit.” Morgagni has published, in his Thirty-se- venth Letter, and Twenty-fourth Article, the histories of several calculi which he met with in the alimentary canal; but. from his descrip- 15