. 72 ECTROPIUM. temple, the base being towards the eye, and He then closed the external wound over the the apex towards the ear (Fig. 224). He old cicatrice. The lid was in this way elon- then united the edges of the wound by two gated, a scarcely observable scar remained, sutures; and the eversion was by this tarsora• and the disagreeable depression at the edge phia cured (Fig. 225). of the orbit was no longer in view. Fig. 224. Fig. 225. In similar cases, but with more complete eversion of both eyelids, Dieffenbach has made to the above proceeding of Walther the following additions. After the excision of the triangular piece from the outer canthus, a curved incision is carried above the supra- orbital arch ; and another, below the lower margin of the orbit, and towards the nose. The two crescentic flaps are then raised; and, after closing the wound in the temple, they are adapted as new lids to the remaining con- junctiva '. Ectropium from caries of the orbit. When ectropium is complicated with caries of the margin of the orbit, nothing in the way of operation in reference to the ectropium should be attempted, until the disease of the bone is cured. Then, it will generally be necessary, on account of the extent to which the skin of the eyelid has suffered from the carious suppuration and ulceration, to have recourse to the transplantation or transposition of the neighbouring skin, according to some one of the operations above described. It, however, sometimes happens, that, though the eversion is considerable, a very small part of the skin only is drawn into the cicatrice, whilst the surrounding skin,still pretty healthy, is puckered. In a case of this kind, Dr. Am- mon 1 2 surrounded the adherent part of the skin by an incision; left it adherent to the bone; detached the neighbouring integuments all round, to such an extent, that the lid was set at liberty, and the patient could shut the eye. 1 British and Foreign Medical Review, ut supra. 2 Zeitschrift fur die Ophthalmologie. Bd. i. p. 49. Dresden, 1831. Fig. 226. Fig. 227. Ectropium in purulent ophthalmia. Eversion of the eyelids sometimes occurs in purulent ophthalmia, in consequence of the great tumefaction of the palpebral conjunc- tiva. The inflammatory edema of the eyelids, which for a time is excessive, beginning at length to subside, while no proportionate diminution of the swelling of the lining mem- brane of the lids has as yet taken place, the swollen and granulated conjunctiva loses that counterpoise which the external swelling af- forded it, and is forced outwards by the action of the orbicularis palpebrarum. If the pro- trusion is not immediately returned, the upper part of the eyelid and the retroverted carti- lage act like a ligature on the parts protruded; and, as the swelling increases, the stricture becomes still stronger by the natural, but ineffectual, efforts of the orbicularis to bring the tarsus into its proper position *. In the ophthalmia of new-born infants, eversion of the eyelids readily takes place when the child cries, or when the eyes are being cleansed from the discharge. The eye- lids are easily returned to their proper posi- tion, if the attempt be made at once ; but, if they are left everted for any time, the con- tinued efforts of the orbicularis, together with 1 Vetch, Practical Treatise on the Diseases of the Eye, p. 228. London, 1820.