FRACTURE. 253 tions are generally of happier prognosis in the upper extremities than in the lower, in which the surgeon will often fail in spite of the most assiduous attention, and the most skilful management, in effecting a cure with- out deformity and shortening of the limb. When the fracture is complicated with dislocation, the prognosis is often very un- favourable. In the ball and socket joints, when the dislocated fragment is short, on the one hand, the attempt to replace it before the consolidation of the fracture, is altogether useless ; and, on the other, is very unlikely to be successful, when the callus has acquired such a degree of firmness as to justify attempts at reduction. When, however, the dislocated fragment is so long as to afford any tolerable purchase to the force required to reduce the disloca- tion, we should make patient endeavours to succeed, before abandoning the attempt, being assured, that with the relaxation of muscles, and the skilful direction of a small force, we may sometimes reduce a disloca- tion, the reduction of which is usually con- sidered to require the application of great force, and the assistance of machinery. In those cases in which we are able to reduce the dislocation before setting the fracture, as in the hinge joints, the dislocation always ren- ders the prognosis unfavourable, because stiffness of the joint, to a greater or less ex- tent, will certainly remain long after the cure of the fracture, and perhaps permanently. THE PROCESS OF THE REPARATION OF FRACTURES. It is necessary, before entering upon the gene- ral account of the treatment of fractures, to investigate the steps of that process or chain of events by which divided bones become repaired. The knitting or reunion of frac- tures, from the first step to that of the most complete consolidation, is not less curious than important; it seems almost equally simple, regular, and wonderful. It is after the consideration of the causes, differences, and symptoms of fractures, that we are almost naturally led to turn our attention to the pro- cess by which nature repairs them, or by which she forms callus. Immediately that a fracture takes place, a quantity of blood, greater or less according to the degree of violence inflicted on the soft parts, is effused between the fragments, under the periosteum, and into the cellular tissue immediately surrounding the bone at the frac- ture ; and, in cases of severe injury, exten- sively into the tissue separating the muscles, or their fasciculi. Hunter supposed the effused blood to perform an important part in the repair of fracture ; by coagulating, becoming organized, and forming the basis of callus ; The effusion of blood, however, is merely the mechanical consequence of the rupture of the bloodvessels, and is so far from being a neces- sary element in the process of repair, that those cases recover most favourably and easily in which the effusion of blood is least, because in them the least violence has been done to the soft parts, and the fragments of the bone retain most nearly their natural relations with regard to one another ; and further, the first duty nature imposes upon herself is, to bring about the absorption of the effused blood ; which, after a time, wastes and assumes the ochre-colour of apoplexies, and then grows pale and disappears. The secretion of fresh organizable lymph,—the result of the inflammation supervening upon the acci- dent,— forms the first step of a long pro- cess of repair, which, in a large bone of an adult human subject, extends over a period of from eight to twelve months. A tumour, largest at the seat of the fracture and gradually diminishing in size above and below this point, soon becomes defined. At first, it con- sists of the organized lymph, which bein'* gradually removed by absorption, the nutritive vessels of the part deposit in its stead a sub- stance resembling fibro-cartilage, for which cartilage, by degrees, is substituted in the same manner. By-and-by, portions of the carti- lage being absorbed, particles of bone secreted by the nutrient capillaries take its place, and in process of time the whole tumour becomes osseous, the ossification proceeding from with- in outwards. Finally, the new bone acquires greater density and strength than the original shaft, insomuch that, in the event of another fracture of the same bone, it will not be broken at the same point as before. The tumour at the fracture, thus different in its constitution at various periods of its age, h technically called the callus. The sketch just given of the changes that take place during the repair of fracture, is drawn from the numerous and accurate obser- vations and experiments of Dupuytren, How- ship, Bransby Cooper, Breschet, and Villerme. A more detailed account will now be neces- sary. The French writers just named divide the process, as observed in the cure of a frac- ture of a large bone in the human subject, into five periods. 1. The first period comprehends the eight or ten first days. On the occurrence of the fracture, blood is poured out between, within, and around the fragments. The cellular tis- sue, and the muscles near them, and the medullary tissue in cheir interior, acquire density by the absorption of the thinner parts of the effused blood, and by the effusion of lymph, following the inflammatory injection of the minute vessels of these parts, and the fragments become confined in a tumour, which gradually acquiring consistence, and becoming defined, forms the rudimentary callus. The substance effused at the seat of the fracture does not get the name of callus till it has acquired a certain definedness of form, and sufficient consistence to confine, to a considerable degree, the fragments imbedded in it. At first, the substance is irregularly diffused among the soft parts around the frac- 7