CAUTERIZATION. lids should be held apart; and directly after, a little almond oil may be dropped upon the part; they should then be kept closed for a day or two, and covered with a light com- press. The eschar produced by its contact with the skin is of an ash colour, hard and superficial, requiring the same time for its separation as that from the mineral acids, above-mentioned. CAUTERIZATION. Lat. Cauterizatio.— By this is meant, the act of destroying a part of the living textures by caustics or heat. In the article Caustics the operation of each substance has been fully described ; and under the head of Burns copious information will be found concerning the accidental effects of fire. It remains for us now to point out the therapeutical effects of concentrated heat on the living textures, with its mode of em- ployment. As a general rule, cauterization may be performed upon any part of the body ; but it is proper to avoid situations in the immediate vicinity of vital organs, of large nervous or vascular trunks, or of bone or tendon. The employment of the cautery may be traced to a very early period in the healing art. Thus Hippocrates resorted to it, and after him the Arabian physicians, until the fifteenth century, when the chemical escharo- tics came into vogue and usurped its place. We are chiefly indebted to the continental surgeons, Percy, Larrey, Dubois, Klein, Rust, and Dupuytren, for having again invited atten- tion to its value as a remedial agent. Actual cauterization may be performed either by substances which impart their heat by direct contact or by radiation, as red-hot iron ; or by substances which impart their heat during the process of combustion, as in moxa. The action of the cautery is sudden, giving rise to a dry eschar, and considerable reaction in the surrounding parts. The resulting in- flammation is of a sthenic character, and the suppuration is healthy. As a general rule, the slough does not extend beyond the site of application. Its effect in changing the vital- ity of neighbouring textures and of increasing the activity of their capillary circulation is much greater than in the case of the potential caustics. The actual cautery, in virtue of its ener- getic, prompt, and penetrating action, has been resorted to in the instance of paralysis, rheumatism, muscular and tendinous relaxa- tion ; in virtue of its producing instantane- ously a dry, firm, compact eschar, for arrest- ing hemorrhage when other things fail, or from particular circumstances are inadmissi- ble ; as in cases of bleeding from an alveolar cavity, from the tongue, from the bite of a leech, or from an extensive parenchymatous surface. It is occasionally used after the ex- cision of malignant growths, to destroy any remaining substance of a suspicious aspect, and also to remove portions of bone affected with VOL. i. 753 caries, but is now seldom employed to render callous surfaces raw, prior to their re-union being attempted. Its use is contra-indicated in the instance of delicate individuals of high nervous susceptibility, and of children under four years of age, from the risk of excessive reaction. Previous to its being applied, the adjoining parts should be carefully protected against injury by means of pledgets of lint moistened with water, which the older sur- geons called defensives. To check bleeding, destroy morbid pro- ducts, and the like, the part itself must be seared. But in diseases of the joints the cau- terization must be executed in the vicinity ; in palsy of the extremities, in the course of the spinal column ; in trismus, over the nape and back ; in prosopalgia, ptosis palpebrarum, and deafness, anterior to the mastoid process. Of the various forms of searing iron, the conical, the flat-round, the button-shaped, and the three-sided prism will be found the most suitable in practice. The end of the shaft to which the head is attached is bent to a right or an obtuse angle, while the other end is firmly inserted into a wooden handle. The conical head of Percy’s iron is one inch long, and eight lines in diameter at the base ; his button-shaped iron is one inch in diameter and four lines in length : Rust’s three-sided prismatic iron is sixteen lines long, each side is nine lines in breadth, the edges being trun- cated, and one of them directed upwards. For minute surfaces the stilet of a trocar, a knitting or sewing needle, may be employed. —The iron is raised to the desired tempera- ture by means of a charcoal chafing-dish blown by bellows. The only dressing required after the operation is a simple linen compress, soaked in cold water. The duration of contact will be more or less abiding, according to the indication which the surgeon intends to fulfil, and the situation of the part. Thus, where we wish to determine a power- ful irritation of the skin with little loss of sub- stance, we may cauterize in the form of linear streaks, the cauterisation transcurrente of Percy, the Streifenbildung of German writers. These rays of fire, as they have been sometimes termed, which are made to run parallel and never cross- wise, arc from two to six inches in length, and from one and a half to three inches apart; their course being previously traced with some pigment. For their production it is di- rected that the operator, after receiving the prismatic iron from an assistant, should seize the handle with both hands and place the under edge of the cautery upon the remote end of the traced line, holding the back part of the edge a little apart from the skin, and then pass the iron with moderate rapidity along the whole length of the track. He must not allow it to sear too deeply, particularly on the first application, grasping it firmly lest it slip in its progress, and taking care not to l'ret the skin, should the anterior part have sunk too far into the surface. Bv following 8 C