179 FARCY. according to the extent of the eruptions, the frequency or infrequency of their return, and the co-existence, or not, of the glanders. When acute farcy occurs simultaneously with acute glanders, in a horse, ass, or mule, already affected with chronic glanders, art is impuissant, and the animal is sacrificed. In the rare cases of acute primitive farcy, whether spontaneous or the consequence of contagion,the farciuouspustules are destroyed, and if the farcinous cords are not very nume- rous, they are removed with the knife. This local treatment, however, does not effect a complete cure, as sooner or later fresh pus- tules and cords occur in other regions of the body. As to the preparations of mercury, sulphur, iodine, &c., which have been extolled for their efficacy in destroying the infection of farcy, they possess no claim to the virtues which some veterinary surgeons have ascribed to them. I have also seen some horses, in which all the symptoms of chronic farcy had disappeared spontaneously under the influence of regimen, or by the exhibition of preparations of iodine, or by external application of chloride of lime, or a solution of sulphate of iron ; or, in fine, by the cauterization or extirpation of the pustules and cords. Veterinarians quote many such cases. But these cures are more apparent than real. The disease almost always returns, even in the animals that are placed in the most favourable conditions as to constitution and keep. But, however, as frequently by these different means, all the symptoms of farcy are made to disappear for several months, it is but reasonable to hope that cures of a more complete and durable kind may yet be obtained. (b. 3.) Farcy in man.—Farcy may be trans- mitted from the solidipedes to man by infec- tion, and more frequently by inoculation. At the present day the number of instances in which such transmission has already taken place is unfortunately considerable. In man, as in the solidipedes, farcy some- times occurs in the acute form, but more fre- quently in the chronic. In the former it is almost always associated with acute glanders, and in the latter, after several months’ dura- tion, it supervenes as the ultimate phenome- non of the glanderous or farcinous infection. (b. 4.) Acute farey.—In man. as in the soli- dipedes, acute farcy only differs from glanders by the nature of the parts affected. Farcy and glanders are morbid conditions produced by the same contagion, and are only distin- guished from each other by situation. All the persons that have been attacked with acute farcy, and of whom an exact account has been published, were males employed in the care of farcied or glandered horses, or horses generally. In several cases the disease had evidently arisen from inoculation by punc- ture ; in the others, the mode of introduction of the contagion had not been stated or recog- nized. When the disease has been produced from a puncture, the primitive local symptoms are inflammation of the lymphatic vessels and ganglions (Angeioleucilis) in the vicinity of the puncture, and diffuse inflammation of the sub- cutaneous cellular tissue. In one case this local inflammation was slight ; the puncture was healed on the fourth day ; but a few days later this cure was followed by fresh inflam- mation in the same finger. In fine, intense fever and general symptoms of infection pre- cede the development of inflammation of the veins, the lymphatic vessels, and ganglions, or of the puncture. Some patients have re- mained from two to eight days without mani- festing any thing remarkable. After this kind of incubation, pain, heat, and swelling, have followed in the point where the virus had been inserted. Sometimes in the puncture a true pustule forms, to which succeeds an ill-conditioned ulcer, having raised edges, and a greyish aspect. Soon after wre observe along the fore-arm and arm a red line, more rarely a true cord, produced by the swollen and inflamed lymphatic vessels, engorgement of the lym- phatic ganglions in the vicinity of the punc- ture, a diffuse inflammation of the subcutaneous cellular tissue, with fever, pain in the head, retching, and other symptoms, similar to those generally produced by the inoculation of mor- bid or putrified matter. In some cases, how- ever, the local phenomena have been but slight, or quickly subdued. The patients seemed to be all but cured, when the peculiar symptoms of acute glanders burst forth, sym- ptoms consequent upon that general and spe- cific infection, which principally characterize farcy in the human subject, and which distin- guish it from the forms of angeioleucitis pro- duced by the inoculation of common pus, or that of any other morbid matter, whose effects have been hitherto investigated. The inflammation of the lymphatic vessels soon breaks out in distant parts, and the gan- glions under the jaw become swollen and painful. The arm soon swells, becomes ten- der, and extremely painful, especially in the vicinity of the joints, abscesses form in the subcutaneous cellular tissue, and the fever continues with increasing intensity. Already, and that too but a little time after the farcinous inoculation, the patients com- plain of nausea, retching, loss of appetite, shivering, bad taste in the mouth, and other symptoms that generally accompany angeioleu- citis and phlebitis with introduction of a mor- bid poison into the blood. Up to this period the symptoms produced by the inoculation of farcinous or glanderous matter cannot be dis- tinguished from those of dissection wounds, or other punctures, by which putrid matter has been introduced. The cause alone separates these two series of pathological phenomena. If the morbid poison does not take deep root in the system, acute farcy may often have a favourable termination. Two other kinds of symptoms, viz. the pus- tular eruption of farcy, which is also observed N 2