639 CANCER, TREATMENT OF. seau has frequently traced the conversion of scirrhus into ossiform matter in the lower animals; and in the horse, dog, and cat, satisfied himself of the transmutation of en- cephaloid and scirrhus into encysted masses containing a homogeneous matter finely granular, varying in colour from a straw- coloured yellow to a rusty red, without vessels, cellular filaments, or the least vital connexion with the inner surface of the cyst. The separation of the “dead matter” from the tissues of the body by a lining cyst pro- tects the latter from the irritative effects which the former might produce. We have already given our reasons for dissenting from the statement of authors respecting the bony transformation in the human subject: the second kind of change is not alleged to have been observed in man ; there is, nevertheless, no a priori reason why it should not occur. In some rare instances spontaneous gan- grene of the surrounding parts has led to the separation and expulsion of cancerous growths and been followed by complete recovery1. Cline2, Everard Home, Steidele, and others, have observed this fortunate accident. Du- puytren considered it most likely to occur in cases of encysted cancer: we are unaware whether this notion is confirmed by general experience. The separation of cancer in this way is not however certainly followed by recovery : Cruveilhier alludes to a case in which healthy cicatrization set in after the fall of the growth, yet indurated masses soon made their appearance in the cicatrix, and though these were destroyed with the chloride of zinc, the disease spread to the axilla. It is also affirmed that the cicatrization of true cancerous ulcers has occasionally pro- ceeded to completion, and a permanent cure resulted. Of this extraordinary occurrence an example is related by Nicod3; Bayle de- clares that he has seen several such cases. Such are the more important facts bearing on the spontaneous cure of cancer. Upon the incurability of the disease by merely medicinal means almost all writers are agreed ; but in respect of the possibility of eradicating it from the system by operation there is no such unanimity. While some main- tain that successful extirpation has seldom or never been witnessed : others proclaim their successes as almost equal in number to their operations. The elder Munro states, that of sixty persons operated on for cancer four only remained free from relapse at the end of two years ; Scarpa in the course of a long- practice observed only three cases of extirpa- tion of true scirrhus permanently successful; Boyer maintained that of 100 patients operated on 95 or 96 succumb under a return of the disease. These calculations, as M. Littre ' Garneii, Bull. <le la Soc. Med d’Emulat. Dec. ItllO. Sept. 1811. Dupuytren, Joum. Hebdom. t.iv. n. 38, 1829. Richerand. Nosogr. Chirurg. t. i. p. 381. Ed. 2. 2 Lancet, vol. ii. p. 401. 3 Bull. cit. No. 1. 1810. remarks, refer chiefly to cancer of the breast and testicle, and would be of a more favour- able kind if extended to cancers of all parts and developed at all ages. True cancer has been radically cured after a second, nay even a third operation. Lacombe1 relates with full detail the history of a woman aged 49, who had been operated on four times for cancer of the mamma, and had, at the time the work was published, enjoyed perfect health for five years. In the year 1770 the general result of operations performed by Mr. Hill of Chester stood thus : of 88 can- cers, extirpated at least two years before— not cured, two ; broke out afresh, nine; threat- ened with a relapse, one ; in all twelve, which is less than a seventh part of the whole number. At that time there were about forty patients alive and sound, whose cancers had been extirpated above two years before.” Reviewing the clashing results of Munro and Hill, Richter exclaims, “Jure sane dixeris de uno eodemque morbo hos viros loqui, dubitari fere potest.” The experience of the best surgeons permits us to go further than this, and affirm as an indubitable fact that they did not write of the same disease—that many of Hill’s cases must have been examples of simple mammary hypertrophy, of fibrous tu- mours, and other non-carcinomatous condi- tions. In the quaint language of Dionis— “Pour chanter victoire il ne faut pas avoir pris une glande engorgee pour un cancer caracterise, comme font quelquefois ceux qui se vantent d’en avoir gueri des milliers2.” Even local relapse is no absolute proof of the cancerous nature of an extirpated tumour ; reproduction of other structures is not very unfrequently entailed by a portion of the mass being left behind. But if there be de- lusion in the extravagant estimates of Hill and one or tw-o other such exceptional ope- rators, there is still more serious error in the dictum of those surgeons who, like Boyer, having witnessed a considerable number of unsuccessful operations, generalize these re- sults and shut their eyes to every fact of opposite tendency. Obliged to admit that affections declared cancerous before operation have been cured thereby, they reject the evidence of such cases on the plea that the complaint could not have been cancerous, because it was cured: in other words, they beg the question at issue. We would warn the student against the irotions promulgated by some writers on this subject, originating in a priori theories on the nature of the disease : against the doctrine of M. Bouillaud, for example, who sees no difficulty in the way of curing cancer, because cancer is merely an inflammatory induration ; against that of M. Breschet, who, guided by the speculations of Bichat, traces the disease to an aberration of “ organic sensi- bility,” and is persuaded we may readily manage this peccant entity. 1 Propositions sur le Cancer, 1805. 2 Cours ^Operations, p. 6*40.