613 CANCER, TREATMENT OF. The conditions interfering with the success of this plan are, according to M. R., excessive magnitude of the morbid growth ; the exist- ence of cavities in its interior ; the conversion of the tissue of the diseased organ itself into carcinoma ; a state of softening, ulceration, or fungous vegetation ; the extension of the dis- ease beyond the reach of direct compression ; obstinate local neuralgic pains, and great ful- ness of person. It can hardly be contended, as we have al- ready stated, that some of the growths thus benefited or cured, were not really scirrhous ; and the testimony of Mr. Travers1 is favour- able to this mode of treatment. Nevertheless the best proof of the general inefficacy of the plan is, that at Paris, where we should natu- rally look for the greatest number of converts, scarcely a single hospital surgeon now resorts to this mode of treating scirrhous tumours. We only remember to have seen it tried once, in the course of two years, by M. Roux, and in this instance he made the trial at the importunate solicitation of the patient. Mr. S. Cooper has recently used compression in one case at University College Hospital,—it seemed only to hasten the esta- blishment of ulceration. There is an easy source of error in the absorption of the sur- rounding natural tissues, which is undoubtedly produced. Perhaps the strongest objection to the general application of the plan is that, by buoying up the hopes of patients, it induces them to decline the operation till too ad- vanced a period of the disease. That the external use of iodine, in the form of ointment, sometimes completely removes tumours, possessing the characters of scirrhus, where it has been had recourse to at an early stage of their development, is a fact of which we have witnessed some examples. The truly cancerous nature of such growths may of course be questioned ; yet a trial of iodine externally, provided the part be indolent, and its use excite no irritative action in the tu- mour, is certainly advisable : the length of the trial should be regulated by the apparent in- fluence produced on the tumour. An excel- lent ointment is composed of five grains of iodine, and a drachm of the ioduret of potas- sium, to an ounce of prepared lard. The io- duret of lead is sometimes well borne, where the former combination proves irritating. Mercurial ointment and plaisters, and even repeated dry friction of the tumour, have had their advocates ; but such means are not at the present day employed2. Caustics of various kinds have, from the earliest times, been employed for the destruc- 1 Loc. cit. vol. xvii. p. 306. 3 Suckling toads was a popular remedy about half a century ago in our own country in cases of mammary cancer, at least, if we may judge from one of the pri- vate letters of Junius to Woodfall, who, alluding to the Princess-Dowager of Wales, at that time afflicted with a cancer, that destroyed her in 1772, mentions that “ she suckles toads from morning till night.”— Mason Good. tion of ulcerated cancer. The actual cautery was probably, according to Bayle, the first agent used for the purpose1. The French surgeons still occasionally employ it, especi- ally for the removal of fungating excrescences, and sometimes, as an additional security, burn the wound after the removal of a cancerous mass. In our own country there is a just re- pugnance to the actual cautery, and it has fallen completely into disuse2. Caustic potass, the bichloride of mercury3, the chloride of antimony, and the nitrate of silver, are among the caustic substances which have enjoyed more or less reputation for their effects on cancerous ulcers. The acid nitrate of mercury, made by dissolving one part of proto-nitrate of mercury in eight of nitric acid, is a favourite escharotic in the French hospitals; and is especially lauded by Re- camier as possessing a marked affinity for the diseased tissue, and as producing healthy granu - lations, even on a cancerous basis. Arsenious acid has long formed the chief agent in nume- rous preparations, both empiric and profes- sional, for the destruction of cancer. In the article Arsenic, the composition of some of these preparations, among others that recom- mended by Dupuytren, is stated. Within the last few years the chloride of zinc has been introduced to the notice of practitioners as an escharotic by M. Cancoin, and experimented on in this country with very favourable results by Mr. A. Ure4. From the relation given by the latter gentleman, it ap- pears to produce a rapid and salutary change on the characters of corroding ulcers, and in at least one instance, to have successfully enu- cleated a large non-ulcerated scirrhous tumour of the mainma. In the latter instance there has, Mr. Ure informs us, been no relapse. In two cases of cancerous ulceration of the face, where the disease, though of long standing, was superficial, it acted most favourably in the hands of Mr. Lawrence, and the cures have been permanent5. The preparation employed by Mr. Ure is a combination of one part of the chloride to two of sulphate of lime : M. Can- coin mixes the salt w'ith various proportions of flour. The thickness of the layer of paste must be proportional to the depth of eschar re- quired to be produced. Its immediate effect, according to Mr. Lawrence, is that of a power- ful stimulant, causing great vascular excite- ment, with swelling, bright redness, and severe pain, the last continuing twenty-four or forty- eight hours, or even longer. The chloride of gold appears to have pro- 1 Hippocr. Epid. lib. vii. 2 A curious mode of applying heat to these surfaces was devised by Lc Comte. It consisted in cauterising with the rays of the sun, collected by a powerful lens: this eccentric process is said to have been attended with success in one case of cancer of the lower lip.— (Mem. de la Soc. Roy. de Med. 1776.) 3 See a paper, hv M. Ordinaire, on the treatment of ulcers of various kinds with corrosive sublimate, in Oaz. Medicalc, Novr. 1(139. * Med. Gaz. 1336, vol. xviii. p. 287. 5 Crosse, in Trans, of Prov. Assoc, vol. v. p. 61. T t 2