69 ECTROPIUM. off with the scissors, and the root touched with the lunar caustic pencil *. Fig. 217. the sutures. The above operation was repeated by M. A. Berard, in 1837, without success, and by M. Velpeau, in 1838, successfully in one case, and unsuccessfully in another, in which erysipelas came on1 2. M. Sanson has also performed an operation resembling it in some points, but quite different from it in others. In my operation, advantage is taken of every bit of skin ; whereas, M. Sanson appears, from the following description of the operation by M. Carron du Villards3, to have made no use at all of the triangular flap. Sanson's Operation.—M. Carron du Villards describes this operation as he saw it perform- ed by M. Sanson, in a case of great eversion, but without thickening of the conjunctiva. The operator made through the skin, below the eyelid (lower ?) a V shaped incision, the space comprised between the two branches of which occupied almost the whole eyelid. The flap being dissected up, the eyelid was easily brought into its natural position. M. Sanson, after having dissected the edges of the tissues adjacent to the solution of continuity, united them by three points of twisted suture, thus leaving the flap floating, with the intention of cutting it away afterwards if necessary. Every 1 London Medical Gazette, vol. xviii. p. 224. Lon- don, 1836. See also Mackenzie's Practical Treatise on the Diseases of the Eye. Third Edition, p. 195. London, 1840. 2 Manuel Pratique des Maladies des Yeux, d’apres M. le Professcnr Velpeau, par Gustave Jeanselme. 3 Guide Pratique pour l'Etude et lc Traitcment des Maladies des Yeux, tom. i. p. 347. Paris, 1838. thing promised to the operation complete success, when the patient was attacked with erysipelas, of which he died. Jdger's Operation *.—In cases of ectropium in which the perpendicular diameter or the breadth of the eyelid is shortened, and the transverse diameter elongated, an operation is performed by Professor Jager, with the twofold aim of increasing the breadth of the eyelid, and reducing its transverse elonga- tion. Before proceeding to the operation, the difference in length of the tarsal edge of the everted lid, and of that of the sound one of the opposite eye, is to be accurately ascer- tained by measurement, in order that it may be determined how much it will be necessary to excise from the margin of the everted lid to reduce it to the same length as that of the sound one. In operating on the everted upper eyelid, the surgeon takes hold of it about the centre of its edge with a common forceps or hook, and draws it downwards, so as to put on the stretch the cicatrice, by which the eyelid is bound to the margin of the orbit. With a scalpel a transverse incision is now to be made about midway between the margin of the everted lid and the superciliary arch. The incision is to be commenced and termi- nated in sound skin, and is to be carried through the whole thickness of the eyelid, so as to form a slit through which, when the strip of eyelid comprehending the palpebral margin is drawn down, the eyeball appears. The length to which the incision is Io be car- ried must depend on the circumstances of the case. To avoid the risk of wounding the eye- ball, a horn spatula may be inserted between it and the eyelid before making the incision. The narrow slip separating the natural rima palpebralis from the artificial opening formed by the incision just described, is the part from the middle of which the piece, ne- cessary to be removed in order to reduce the transverse diameter of the eyelid, is to be cut out. The size of the piece is already known from the measurements made before the ope- ration was commenced. With a forceps and scissors the excision is easily effected. A straight double-edged scalpel is now to be used, for the purpose of separating the in- teguments from the frontal bone. The upper lip of the wound being seized with the for- ceps, and separated a little from the edge of the orbit, the scalpel is to be introduced up- wards and slightly outwards between the pos- terior surface of the orbicularis muscle and anterior surface of the frontal bone. Having been pushed onwards to a sufficient depth, the blade is to be carried with a sawing motion towards the temple and external canthus, and then towards the middle line of the forehead, without enlarging the original wound of the 1 Preyer, Nova Blepharoplastices Methodus; Vin- dobonae, 1831.—Brown, in London Medical Gazette, vol. xvii. p. 721.— Mackenzie, Practical Treatise on the Diseases of the Eve, 3d cd. p. 197. 12