834 CORNEA. &c.; vol.i. p. 277. London, 18-10. 2 Figure 9. Op. ct Ioc. tit. who died of phthisis. The middle of the cor- nea forming the apex of the cone was in the right eye one-third, and in the left eye one-half thinner than natural. In both eyes the cir- cumferential portion of the cornea was thick- ened. Mr. Middlemore has also had an opportunity of examining, after death, the state of the cornea in a person affected with the disease in an extreme degree. He found the circumference of the cornea of the ordi- nary and natural thickness, but its apex was much thinner than usual1. The causes of conical transformation of the cornea are unknown. The prognosis of conical cornea is in gene- ral unfavourable, though sometimes the dis- ease, after a slight degree of development, has its farther progress arrested. Treatment.—In entering upon this part of the subject, it is well to premise, that restora- tion of the cornea to its natural form is not to be calculated on. The only indications, there- fore, are to arrest the deforming process ; or to try by an operation to rectify somewhat the disordered optical condition of the eye ; or lastly, to provide some kind of glass calcu- lated to compensate the malformation of the cornea. As a means of arresting the deforming pro- cess, counter-irritation, astringents locally, and tonics, or iodine internally, have had some equivocal testimony in their favour. So, like- wise, repeated evacuation of the aqueous humour. In a woman about seventy years of age, affected at the same time with conical cornea and cataracts, Sir William Adams successfully removed the latter, and found that the patient could afterwards see much more distinctly without convex glasses, than is usual for those who have undergone the operation for cata- ract. Encouraged by this, he removed the transparent crystalline lens, by the operation of division, from one of the eyes of a young woman affected with conical cornea in both. The ultimate result, he says, was beneficial. Others, however, assert, that the operation does no good, which theoretically was to have been expected, as a concave glass was likely to afford all the assistance which removal of the lens could by possibility do. Dilatation of the pupil by belladonna has been found in some cases to assist vision. This it does by allowing the rays to enter the eye through the less deformed circumference of the cornea. On the same principle, Himly’s operation of dislocating the pupil has been proposed ; and Mr. Tyrrell2 informs us he has put it into execution seven or eight times within the last six years, and in each case with benefit, which in two especially was very considerable. In no instance did any evil follow. The operation consists simply in making a puncture, with an iris knife or the point of a cataract knife, through the cornea 1 Treatise, vol. i. p. 532. 2 A Practical Work on the Diseases of the Eye, close to the sclerotica, and prolapsing a por- tion of the iris, so as to bring the pupil from behind the apex of the cone. As to glasses, simple concaves have been found of no use. Dr. Hull mentions an instru- ment, formed of two lenses, with an adjust- ment, the farther and larger lens convex, the nearer and smaller doubly concave, from which benefit was obtained in as bad a case of conical cornea as he ever saw1. INJURIES OF THE CORNEA. Foreign bodies adhering to, or imbedded in, the Cornea. The husks of small seeds, and other analo- gous bodies, such as the wing-case of cer- tain insects, and, as I have seen in a fisherman, one of the valves of a minute bivalve shell getting into the eye, sometimes adhere to the surface of the cornea, and are, perhaps, overlooked, until inflammation sets in, when they are mistaken for pustules or phlyctenulae, resulting from the inflammation. This, there- fore, should induce to a careful examination in any suspected case, when the nature of the body on the cornea cannot fail to be recog- nized. Removal is readily effected by the touch of a hair-pencil moistened and brought to a point, or of a toothpick, the eyed end of a probe, or a small spatula-like silver instru- ment for the purpose 2. The ignited sparks detached from iron in- struments in the course of various operations, called fires, and which so frequently strike, and sink into, the cornea, appear as small dark points on the surface, with some dimness around. They give rise to more or less pain, especially when the eyelids are closed, to- gether with redness and lacrymation. The foreign body is, at first, firmly fixed, but after- wards becomes loose. When removed, it is found, on close examination, to be black oxyd of iron, fused into a minute globule. Chips of pure metal, splinters of glass, stone, hard wood, and the like, projected against the eye, often stick, more or less deeply, in the cornea, or even wholly penetrate it, and lodge in the interior of the eye. If a part of the foreign body remains projecting, very great irritation ensues, but if the body has sunk fairly in the substance of the cornea, it may produce little reaction, or, becoming enveloped in a capsule of lymph, it ceases to be a cause of irri- tation, and the inflammation, to which it may have given rise, subsides ; the cornea at the part remaining opaque. More frequently, how- ever, ulcerative absorption of the cornea takes place around the foreign body, which thus becomes loose at the bottom of the ulcer, re- quiring but a touch for its detachment. When a chip of pure iron sticks in the cor- nea, and is allowed to remain any time, it be- comes oxydated, and tinges the adjacent cor- nea of a brown colour. The globule of black oxyd of iron is, in