ANEURISM. 21G years been made in the surgical treatment of external aneurisms, and also from the opinion generally promulgated, that by debilitating a patient by a long-continued depictive system, although the impetus of the blood’s current will be diminished, yet the change produced in the chemical qualities of the sanguineous fluid will be the means of impeding, instead of promoting that very process of coagula- tion which it is the primary object of the treatment to fulfil. “ It ought to be admit- ted,” observes Velpeau, “that it is difficult to comprehend how the treatment of Val- salva is efficacious. Without doubt, by blood- letting frequently repeated, and a rigorous diet, we are able to reduce the force of the heart and the pulsations of an aneurismal tu- mour. The volume of such a tumour may be diminished in the greaternumber of cases,but is it not to be feared that by enfeebling a patient we shall increase the fluidity of the blood; and that far from favouring its concretion, the consolidation of the aneurism and the oblitera- tion of the artery, we, on the contrary, render all these different phenomena more diffi- cult ?” In proof, however, of the soundness of the practice of Valsalva, and of the erroneous theory of its rationale, the researches of modern physiologists on the properties of the blood afford most satisfactory evidence ; for whilst it has long been well known that in proportion as an animal is depleted, so docs the quantity of the fibrine become diminished, it is a curious and no less important fact, “ that fibrine coagulates the more speedily in propor- tion as the circulating and nervous systems become more feeble.” The experiment has been repeatedly made with animals by bleed- ing them to death, the last portion of blood being found invariably to coagulate the soon- est, and, as has been justly observed, “ the principle of the blood’s concretion being in the ratio of the debility of the animal from which it is withdrawn, is one of those wise provisions of which we see numerous examples in the living body1.” This important discovery of the property of the fibrine of the blood to coagulate more and more speedily in proportion as the person has been depleted, explains how, by the more ready coagulation of the fibrine, when life has been nearly extinguished, the divided vessels are speedily sealed up, and the bleed- ing arrested. In like manner, we can satis- factorily account for the successful practice of Hippocrates, who, in haemorrhage from the lungs, employed blood-letting along with the antiphlogistic regimen, so far as to ex- sanguinate the patient and produce excessive debility. For establishing the plan of treatment of aneurism proposed by Valsalva, we therefore have not only the practical result of such a system, but physiological science enables us to give a most satisfactory explanation of its modus operands, and one important inference we arc entitled to draw is, that not only ought this mode of treatment to be adopted in inter- nal aneurisms, or those beyond the reach of the surgeon, but that it may be advantageously resorted to in cases wherein an operation may be ultimately advisable, because such treatment will not only greatly ensure the success of an operation, by tranquillizing the action of the heart and arteries, but will render the system less liable to inflammation, and may be the means of checking the progress of that disease in the coats of an artery which leads to the formation of aneurism and favours its future growth. Besides the means recommended by Valsal- va, there are additional measures which ought to be employed in the medical treatment of aneurism, and it is important to bear in mind, that even when all these means combined fail in curing, or in arresting the progress of the tumour, the patient is in a position wherein a surgical operation would be undertaken with a better chance of success than if such previous system of treatment had not been adopted. Of these means, the most important is the exhibition of those remedies which are known to have a specific effect in diminishing the action of the heart and arteries. In the use of antimony I have the greatest confi- dence, and have found the James’s powder superior to all the other preparations of that mineral. From three to six grains of this powder may be given every six, eight, or twelve, or twenty-four hours, either singly or combined, with one grain of the extract of rhubarb or aloes. The frequency of the dose may be diminished when nausea is produced; and the aloes or rhubarb may be omitted should they act too frequently on the bowels. When the tartrate of antimony is to be administered, the third or fourth of a grain may be given two or three times a-day, either in solution, or made into a pill with rhubarb, aloes, or gentian. In either of these forms, antimony may be taken for a lengthened period, and it ought to be administered as long as it appears to have a decided influence on the organs of the circulation, in conjunction with the other means, which are at the same time adopted to diminish the bulk and increase the thickness of the parietes of the aneurismal tumour. Local remedies, along with the depletive sys- tem of Valsalva, and the use of those remedies which tranquillize the circulation, also assist in checking the progress, if they do not effect the cure, of an aneurism. Of these, I may first mention the local abstraction of blood by the application of leeches, the number of which ought to be few, but their application should be repeated every day or every second or third day, according to the relief which they afford. This practice is particularly applica- ble to internal aneurisms; and I have, in many instances, considered it to be the means of relieving congestion, more particularly when the aneurism has been seated in the thoracic 1 Thackfiili.