342 FRACTURE. scapula have allowed the fractured ends to overlap. The support of the clavicle being lost, the humerus can no longer rotate, to allow the hand to be brought to the forehead. Crepitus is felt when the shoulder is moved ; but the fracture is so evident, and the pain produced by motion so extreme, that it is wrong to seek for it. The power of the eosto-clavicular ligament, and the antagonistic action of the sterno- cleido mastoideus and the pectoralis major muscles, prevent the sternal portion being much moved from its natural situation ; and it is important to bear in mind, that it is the outer portion which is displaced. The treatment practised formerly for a frac- tured clavicle is still adopted by many ; namely, to draw the shoulders back, and fix them in that position. If much effort is necessary, the patient is so placed, that an assistant can easily apply his knee between the shoulders, and thus forcibly draw them backwards with his two hands ; and while they are thus fixed, the surgeon places one end of a roller (com- monly called the figure of 8 bandage) in the axilla of the injured side, and applying the bandage across the back obliquely upwards, winds it over the opposite shoulder, through the axilla, and over the first shoulder to the point of commencement. Having made this (figure of 8) turn secure, several similar turns are made successively. This method, how- ever, necessarily brings the scapula towards the spine, and the outer portion of the clavicle towards the sternum, increasing instead of diminishing the over-lapping of the broken ends. The tightness of this bandage may also produce considerable excoriation. Heis- ter has recommended an iron cross in these cases, and a corslet has been described by Brasdor, in the Mem. de l’Acad. de Chir. (See art. Bandage.) Boyer remarks, that these, and Brunninghausen’s leather strap, are merely the figure of 8 bandage in principle; but in truth, with care and slight modifica- tions, as, for instance, sufficient pads in the axilla, these methods are not inefficient. The figure of 8 bandage itself may be well used, together with a sling, in fractures ex- ternal to the coraco-clavicular ligaments. To be well assured that the reduction is properly effected, it is necessary to see that the scapular extremity is carried outwards as well as backwards—in short, into a continuous line with the sternal portion. Desault produced this effect by a fulcrum in the axilla, using the humerus as a lever. A firm conic cushion, made of hair or flock, five or six inches long, and three inches and a quarter thick at its base, was secured with its base in the axilla. (See fig. 151, art. Bandage.) A girdle of linen cloth was contrived by Boyer, to supersede the too complicated bandaging of Desault. It is fixed round the trunk, on a level with the elbow, by straps and buckles. A band of quilted cloth, four or five inches wide, embraces the lower third of the injured arm, and is secured to the girdle by double straps and buckles, both before and behind; they may therefore be tightened at pleasure. The height of the girdle is regulated by a brace or strap over each shoulder, and the pad for the axilla is adapted as by Desault. An apparatus also, uniting all the advan- tages of Desault’s bandage, was used so long since as 1816, by Dr. S. H. Cole, of Baltimore; it was made of leathern straps and buckles, and was more easily applied and permanent; it was also so contrived as to avoid the incon- venient pressure which Desault’s bandage produced on the mammae of females. Dr. Cole’s apparatus was successfully employed by himself in the worst cases, and, as well as some suggestions, by Dr. S. Brown, of New York, for the better application of Desault’s bandage, is much used through the American States. Many years ago, Mr. Earle also recom- mended a simple apparatus, applicable both to fractures and cases of dislocation of this bone, as well as to other injuries of these parts. It must be particularly remembered, that the indications to be attended to, in the treat- ment of these fractures, are, that the scapular extremity of the clavicle may not have the weight of the arm upon it, which a simple sling will prevent; that the action of the pec- toralis major, and other muscles acting towards the sternum, may be counter-balanced by some outward extension ; and that the prominent portion of the fractured clavicle be not care- lessly treated by pressure, as the actual and chief part displaced ; such means having often induced protrusion through the integuments. Complicated apparatus will always be lit- tle attractive to the generality of surgeons ; rollers in particular are insecure. A belt is necessarily too tight or too loose, and always tends to yield, and allow the elbow to pass backwards or outwards. The only fixed points by which the elbow may be permanently sus- pended are the neck and the opposite shoulder. A simple cap, as of linen, is by far the most certain means to lodge the elbow. A band for a neck-sling (not a handkerchief) and another suspended by the sound shoulder and axilla, will retain this cap with the least local uneasiness. A simple circular band may be required to keep the elbow close to the body. Sometimes also it may be well for a time to keep the head forwards, as by pillows, in order to relax the sterno-mastoid muscle. It should not be concealed, that the great- est difficulty is often experienced in maintain- ing, from day to day, the coaptation which is so readily produced for a minute. Notwith- standing the greatest care, and even severity, whatever the apparatus be, the weight of the arm gradually, if not quickly, produces dis- placement. Pelletan, at the Hotel-Dieu, in Paris, and others, have been led to forego the use of bandages; and, placing the patient in bed on his back, with the arm on a pillow,