544 BURNS AND SCALDS. produced are mostly of a nervous and asthe- nic type ; as delirium, convulsions, vomiting’, to which are superadded, profuse perspiration, and colliquative diarrhoea. The pulse is tre- mulous, small, and intermittent. The features arc contracted, the countenance assumes a muddy hue, the teeth and lips become en- crusted with sordes, and death supervenes, with all the signs of typhoid prostration. On subsequent examination, the blood is found to be fluid and black, and the animal tissues soft and flaccid. Thus it has been shown, that the immediate pain, the secondary inflammation or irritation, the excessive and protracted discharge, and absorption of matter, are the circumstances which endanger life in cases of injury from burns and scalds. The first has been desig- nated the period of irritation, the second of inflammation, the third of suppuration and in- anition. Dupuytren has enumerated a fourth period, that of cicatrization. It is a pheno- menon, not less remarkable than obscure, that patients die suddenly, and without any assignable cause, at the time when the sores are healed, or nearly healed. Cadaveric in- spection has failed to elucidate this point. Delpech conceived that the fatal issue in these cases was attributable to a perturbation of the functions of the skin ; meaning, thereby, that a free discharge of matter from an ulcerated surface, vicarious to the cutaneous transpira- tion, having been suppressed by the formation of a new cutaneous tissue, incapable of execu- ting the proper functions of the skin, the equi- librium between the external and internal tegumentary envelopes being interrupted, death was the result ; in other words, death beginning at the skin, induced paralysis of the heart, analogous to what has been already stated relative to the mortal consequences of extensive superficial scalds. Prognosis.—To institute a prognosis in cases of burn, a variety of circumstances are to be taken into account; on the one hand, the in- tensity and extent of the lesion, its seat, and the nature of the injured part ; on the other, the age, the constitution, and previous habits of life, of the subject. In reference to the former, it. may be ob- served, that the constitutional effects are not so much correlative to the depth of structure destroyed as to the extent of surface affected, while the amount of consecutive deformity and mutilation is directly proportional to the profundity to which the caloric has acted. Burns of the second degree, occupying an area of two or three square feet, are fraught with imminent danger, and if one-half of the whole surface be affected, most commonly prove mortal. The precursors of death are increased pain, exacerbation of fever, and a violet tint of the surface. Those of the third degree, where disorgan- ization of part of the chorion, rete mucosum, and epidermis, has occurred to the extent of a square foot, may induce death in young chil- dren, aged persons, or individuals reduced by intemperance or previous disease. The life of adults is not seriously endangered, unless a fourth or fifth part of the surface of the body has been attacked. When that amount is in- volved, in addition to the accidents attendant on the preceding degree, such as the intensity of pain and violence of inflammatory re-action, those resulting from suppuration and exhaus- tion are superadded. [f the patient reco- vers, there is no deformity left ; the skin not having been totally destroyed, the cicatrix forms without any retraction of the margin of the sore. But however complete that cicatrix may be, its texture never acquires the perfect organization of the primitive integument ; it is more sensitive to the air and clothing, and less apt to convey the impressions of touch. It is prone to irritation from the most trivial cause, as a slight indisposition. Burns of the fourth, fifth, and sixth degrees, where more than a square foot is implicated, are attended with the utmost peril. Here the chief danger proceeds from the debilitating process of suppuration, and the evils to which that may give rise, ere reparation can be ob- tained, even if the patient has withstood the primary shock and subsequent inflammation. The breach of continuity, when the sore does not unite by the approximation of the sides, can only be filled up by the interposition of a cutis of newr formation, of which the diameter is always less than that of the ulcer. Hence proceed depressed or contracted and irregular cicatrices, which adhere to subjacent parts and organs. The patient seldom recovers the perfect use of the injured part. Burns and scalds of the thorax are dan- gerous from the likelihood of pleuritic inflam- mation, and its sequelae. Those of the abdo- minal parietes are tedious in cicatrizing, be- cause the muscles of that region are kept in constant action by cries, efforts to cough, movements of expiration, and expulsion of the faeces. Morever, violent peritonitis may he excited, and, during the period of utero- gestation, premature labour is to be dreaded *. Burns of the inguinal region predispose to hernia. Those occurring in the vicinity of an articulation arc not unfrcquently follow'ed by ankylosis, from the habit the patient has of maintaining the limb in a state of flexure. I formerly alluded to the dangers from he- morrhage, when treating of the separation of the eschar. Dr. Donnellan represents a burn about the verge of the anus as a grave acci- dent, because it is for the most part accom- panied with obstinate constipation, produced mechanically, as in fissure of the anus, by the resistance caused by the pain to faecal evacuation; when the constipation is suc- ceeded by diarrhoea, the discharge so deterio- rates the nature of the sore as to cause death. Dr. Donnellan observed an instance of this kind at the Hotel Dieu of Paris 2. Tetanus 1 Sec a case in Dr. Macfarlane’s Clinical Reports, p. 25'2. 2 Precis sur la Brulurc, p. 11.