275 FRACTURE. tions. Let a second splint be laid on the inside of the limb, protected by the substitute for a cushion, and a third along the outer and anterior part, in the same manner. Perhaps a fourth may be required along the front, when the limb is large. The outer splint should extend from the top of the great tro- chanter to the point of the external malleolus —the inner from near the fold between the thigh and perineum to the point of the inter- nal malleolus—none of them should descend so low as the sole of the foot, lest they should be liable to catch upon any thing, and by so doing rudely shake the limb. Before binding the strings round the splints, the vacancies between them and the limb, as at the ham, &c. should be filled up, and the prominences of the bones should be protected from undue pressure with tow or any other soft material. Let the tapes be tied firmly, three for the thigh, and two for the leg. Lastly, the single-headed roller is to be applied over all, with a moderate degree of tightness, from the toes to the top of the limb. The patient is now' ready to be conveyed, without much pain, and with tolerable safety, to a considerable distance. If the fracture is not a bad one he may be taken in a coach with the broken limb supported on the two seats. The outside jaunting car, so common in Ireland, is a preferable, and a very conve- nient vehicle on such an occasion as this. With the fractured limb laid along on the inner part of one of the seats, and the foot of the other on the foot-board, supporting him- self, while he grasps the rail firmly before and behind him, prepared to soften or obviate the shock of the jolting of the car, the patient may travel a good way in this manner, with great ease to himself, and safety to the fracture. A chaise, with one door open to allow the foot to project, may serve, but is much less adapted to our purpose than the coach or car. If the fracture be a very bad one, the patient should be carried by men on a litter contrived by the surgeon for the occasion. A door, or any similarly shaped board, will answer, with tw'o poles securely nailed across and underneath it, one a little below' the top, and the other a little above the bottom, of the door ; or the poles may, in the same way, be secured along each side of the board. In this way two men can carry the litter like a sedan-chair, where- as four would be necessary according to the former plan. In either case the poles should extend two or three feet beyond the board, that it may not strike against those who carry it. If nothing of this kind is to be had, a litter may be constructed in the fol- lowing manner. Let four poles, two, seven, or eight, and two, ten, or twelve feet long, be procured, if not in the house, from the next wood. Let the upper and lower edges of two strong sheets be sewed well together with pack-thread, and let the two longer poles be then passed through them, and sepa- rated, till the sheets, the side of one of which is to be in contact with that of the other, are tensely stretched by the poles. Let them be fixed in that position, by passing the shorter poles under them, immediately above and below the sheets, and nailing or tying them all 'firmly together at the four points where they cross each other. Lastly, cut- ting one or other pair of poles near to the sheets, we have a litter requiring two or four men to carry it, according as we cut short the poles. Either may be necessary, accord- ing to the weight of the patient. The two- porter litter is always to be preferred where there is a choice. It can be carried through doorways, and the smaller the number of per- sons employed at the same time in the trans- port, the less is the risk of want of concert in their movements. A thin hair mattress, or one or two blankets, and a bolster, being laid on a litter, it is now fit to receive the patient. Fig. 298. It will be w'ell for the surgeon to super- intend the whole transport, and direct the movements of the men who carry the patient, and who should keep the step like chair-men, t 2