G80 CANCER. 2 Reports of Med. Cases, vol. ii. p. 506. 1 No. 36, Avril, 1833. if it originate in the interior of the rectum, the lower inches of the bowel are, as has been stated, generally healthy, and, from its situa- tion, it is unfitted for extirpation. IX.—Air-Passages. (a.) Nares.—Cancerous disease of the nares, which is most commonly encephaloid, produces the mechanical effects common to all growths obstructing these passages, such as interference with the ingress and egress of air from the lungs, and as has occasionally been witnessed, obliteration of the lachrymal sac followed by fistula lachrymalis, &c. The pain, luemorrhages, and discharge are of the ordi- nary kind. Tumours appearing in the nasal fossae may not have originated in those cavities. We have already seen this fact illustrated in the history of perforating cancer of the meninges, and further information on the point will be found in the articles Orbit and Maxillary Sinus. M. Cruveilhier refers to a singular case wherein a mass, having the appearance of a fibrous polypus, occupied the right nostril, and was, on post-mortem examination, found to consist of a portion of dura mater, thickened, exhibiting a fungous surface, and containing within it the corresponding parts of the arach- noid and pia mater along with some cerebral substance and pus, the whole forming a hernia through the cribriform plate of the ethmoid bone. The chief safeguard against ill conse- quences in such cases appears to be in the fact, that the state of disease must be so ad- vanced as to contra-indicate any attempt at operation. The commemorative symptoms will also sometimes guide us in the diagnosis, and should, under all circumstances, be care- fully inquired into.—The seat of the disease being ascertained to be in the nose, its nature remains to be established. It may be mis- taken for different kinds of nasal polypus, but the ordinary effects of cancer are usually suf- ficiently marked to ensure us from error. See Nares. Palliative treatment only is indicated in cancerous disease of the nostrils ; should re- spiration be seriously impeded by abundant growth of encephaloid fungi, these may be cut or torn away, but this is only a measure of temporary utility, as they are rapidly re- produced. The haemorrhage resulting from their excision in particular may be extremely difficult to control. (b.) Maxillary Sinus.—See this word. (c.) Frontal Sinuses.—The following par- ticulars of a case of carcinoma of these cavities are abridged from the original history by Des- granges, recently published in L’Experience by the learned editor M. Dezeimeris *. A man, aged twenty-five, presented himself at a provincial hospital with a tumour situated at the root of the nose. Two years before he had had confluent variola, attended with vio- lent cephalalgia from which he was never afterwards wholly freed. He suffered besides from stuffing in the nostrils, frequent sneezing, and desire to clear the nose. The frontal pain increasing, occasionally assumed the lancinating character ; and at the end of fifteen months the bone, immediately above the root of the nose, appeared to bulge out. This promi- nence gradually increased, was at first hard and insensible, but subsequently became some- what tender. Impaired olfaction, severe itch- ing in the nares, with puriform discharge now supervened. On his admission, the external tu- mour was as large as a hen’s egg, the invest- ing integuments engorged, cedematous, and slightly red. The bone covering the tumour seemed exceedingly thin, and obscure fluctua- tion perceptible. A “ malignant fever ” car- ried off the patient fifteen days after his ad- mission. The prominent part of the bone was found to be extremely thin, cracked, and ready to separate into fragments. On remov- ing this lamella—the anterior wall of the frontal sinuses—a tumour springing from the lining membrane of those cavities presented itself somewhat flattened on its posterior, convex on its anterior surface. Smooth and reddish externally,a section of this growth ex- hibited superiorly a solid, firm, sarcomatous or scirrhous tissue, very slightly tinged with red,—inferiorly a humid, redder, and softer substance, as it were decomposed and covered with a sort of purulent mucilage ; the latter could not be removed without scraping away some of the tumour, which then bled. The septum of the sinuses had totally disappeared ; the size of these cavities was greater than natural; and the opening, communicating with the ethmoid cells, widened and plugged with engorged pituitary membrane, apparently in- flamed and purulent. The internal plate of the frontal bone presented its natural aspect; the posterior lamella of the sinuses of ordinary thickness, was of red brown colour, as in the bones of young subjects. The corresponding dura mater adhered but slightly to the cra- nium ; towards the crista galli appeared vari- cose vessels which bled abundantly. The venous sinuses, as also the vessels of the dura mater and cerebral substance, were likewise engorged with blood. The characters of an encephaloid tumour partially softened may be recognised in these details. The progress of the disease was closely similar to that of perforating cranial cancer ; and the healthy state of the posterior wall shows that extirpation of the tumour might have been undertaken with reasonable prospect of success. (d.) Sphenoid Sinuses.—Dr. Carswell1 has given an engraving of an encephaloid growth originating in this situation, and protruding through the substance of the bone into the cavity of the cranium. Dr. Bright2 speaks of a similar case ; the patient had suffered from facial neuralgia. 1 Element. Illustrations, Carcinoma, Fasc. II. PI. II. fip. 7.