139 EPISTAXIS. type. Numerous instances are also recorded in which it was supplementary to the catame- nia, haemorrhoidal, and other sanguineous dis- charges. One of the best marked cases in which it was vicarious with menstruation, is related by Dr. Hamilton of Ipswich h The patient was twenty-two years of age, who “ for these last four years has had her menses irregularly. Sometimes they do not appear for four months together, then they break forth, and continue regular for three or four periods ; stop again, &c. During their inter- ruption at the ordinary time they should ap- pear, she is regularly seized with an epistaxis, which continues three or four days (or about the length of time the catamenia used to flow) before it completely stops.” He adds, Mr. Buck, a surgeon of Ipswich, “ informs me of a maid servant he had, some years ago, affected almost exactly in a similar way.” Hippocrates, and many succeeding writers, have considered epistaxis to be critical in fevers and other acute diseases ; and rules have been given, by which it w'as to be re- garded as favourable or otherwise, according to the amount of the haemorrhage, the symp- toms by which it was accompanied, the day on which it took place, and the side of the nose from which it ran corresponding or not with the side of the body supposed to be the scat of disease. In the present day, how- ever, we regard it merely as a symptom or effect of general or organic disease, useful or injurious, as it relieves or aggravates the symp- toms of that disease, and treat it accordingly. Symptoms.—Many authors give an exceed- ingly long list of what they call the premoni- tory symptoms of epistaxis ; but, strictly speaking, the symptoms they enumerate apply rather to a state of congestion within the cra- nium, or to some visceral disease to which epistaxis is consecutive. Very frequently there is no symptom preceding or accompany- ing the discharge of blood.distinctly referable to any altered condition of the pituitary mem- brane, although there is occasionally a sense of weight, heat, dryness, or pricking in the nose. In the active form the blood often flows with considerable rapidity, but the dis- charge seldom lasts long, although the tend- ency to recur is always great. The system becomes habituated to a loss of blood, and thus, although in the first instance it may have been a means of relief, the repeated return of the discharge brings about a con- dition of the system marked by deceptive signs of robust health. This especially occurs in coachmen, draymen, grooms, and others, who take violent exercise, and indulge immo- derately in malt liquors ; they generally ap- pear florid and robust, and the epistaxis re- lieves feelings of general dulness and oppres- sion for the time ; but it impoverishes the blood, induces general debility, loss of appe- tite, and copious perspirations; and if it be not 1 Edinburgh Medical Commentaries, Decade 2nd, vol. i. p. 337. checked, the bad habits of the patient reform- ed, and a general tonic regimen adopted, the whole surface of the body becomes flabby and bloated, and death follows upon oedema and general dropsy. In the purely passive form, the discharge, so far from affording any re- lief to the patients, augments the physical debility, mental depression, and all the evils under which they suffer. If it continue, the patient becomes the subject of hysteria or hypochondriasis, the pulse is feeble, rapid, and intermitting, the countenance pallid, extremi- ties cold and blueish, a loud bruit de soufflet is heard on applying the ear to the heart, and often also in the larger arteries, and death speedily follows if the bleeding be not stopped. The duration of the bleeding varies from a few minutes to ten or fifteen hours, or more, the flow being either continued, or recurring after frequent short interruptions; a case is recorded 1 in which it continued without ces- sation for six weeks,—a story, however, pro- bably more extraordinary than true. Martini states that one of his sisters was completely emaciated by an epistaxis which troubled her for more than a year. The properties of the blood which flows differ in the active and passive varieties ; in the former it is bright red, firmly coagulating, and very little serum is separated ; while in the latter it is dark coloured, serous, and less firmly coagulable. The quantity of blood lost also varies greatly, ordinarily not exceeding four or eight ounces, while there are cases on record in which the most astonishing amount has been lost. In one case seventy-five pounds were said to have been lost in ten days 2. Bartholinus3 mentions a case in which forty-eight pounds were lost; Amatus Lusitanus4 from twenty to twenty-two pounds ; Rhodius5 eighteen pounds in twenty-one hours and a half; Christini6 fifteen pounds; and Forestus7 twelve pounds. Many others might be cited, but as no such quantities are ever heard of in the present day, these cases will probably merely rank with the curiosities of medical literature, and with some as proofs of the credulity of our predecessors. Pathology.—The blood discharged must pass either through a rupture of arteries, veins, or capillaries ; or by simple transuda- tion through their coats. The former is doubtless the case in the traumatic form of epistaxis. The ancient authors supposed that in all cases of haemorrhage from mucous mem- branes some vessel was ruptured, although the lesion might not be appreciable ; and we are indebted to Morgagni for dispelling this error, he never having been able to detect in the most attentive examination, any ero- 1 Ephemera, Nat. Cur. Dec. 1, an. Ill, obs. 243 2 Acta Erudita of Leipzig, lib. 1688, p. 205. 2 Anat. Renov. lib. 11, cap. vi. r Cent. 11, cur. 100. s Obs. Med. cent. 1, obs. 90. 6 Prattica Medic, osservaz. 82. 7 Lib. xiii. obs. 10. 12.