ASPHYXIA. 429 the end of a fortnight it enjoys this faculty equally with its parent. The young of the mammalia, however, are to be distinguished into two classes, in relation to the production of animal heat. Some are born, as it were, cold-blooded : others warm- blooded. Corresponding with this difference, a distinction is deducible from the state of the eyes. Some are born with their eyes closed, others with the eyes open. The tem- perature of the former rises successively, and at the end of a fortnight (which is the period when the eyes open) it is nearly equal to that of adults. Thus the state of the eyes, though having no immediate connection with the pro- duction of heat, may yet coincide with an in- ternal structure influencing that function, and certainly furnishes signs which serve to indi- cate a remarkable change in this respect, since, at the period of the opening of their eyes, all young mammalia have nearlythe same tempe- rature as adults. The young of birds are also to be divided into two classes. Some when hatched can cat and run, and are only covered with a tolerably thick down, and this class can main- tain a moderately elevated temperature, if ex- posed to the air in a favourable season. Ano- ther class is born without down or feathers, is incapable of providing for itself, and is in a similar condition in relation to the production of heat with cold-blooded animals. Young birds, however, require a degree of heat equal to that of adults of the same species, and which neither the mild warmth of spring nor the strong heat of summer can supply. The temperature of this class is preserved by the shelter of their nests, their mutual contact, and the assiduous care of their parents, who impart the warmth of their own bodies to them during all the time that is not occupied in obtaining food ; but when separated from each other, and exposed to the atmosphere, they rapidly cool down to within one or two degrees of the temperature of the air. It is from within alone that animal heat can originate, however outward coverings may contribute to retard its dissipation. Accord- ingly an adult sparrow stripped of its feathers, cutting them so as completely to expose the skin, preserved the temperature which it had before the experiment, being 36° Fahrenheit i above that of the atmosphere, which was at I 64°; whilst, on the contrary, young birds of the same species, taken from their nest, where ! they had a suitable degree of warmth, and ; which the feathers they had begun to acquire, tended to preserve, cooled down to within j one or two degrees of the external air. From these and similar facts, it appears that the power of producing heat in warm-blooded animals is at its minimum at birth, and in- creases uniformly until adult age. The duration of life, when animals are de- prived of air, extends to every age, in the i opinion of Dr. Edwards, and should serve as j a strong reason for not rashly applying a high I external temperature, for tlie restoration of persons from a state of suspended anima- tion. From further experiments of Legallois and Edwards, there appears to be an intimate re- lation between heat and respiration in both cold-blooded and warm-blooded animals. The dividing of the eighth pair of nerves produces, along with other phenomena, a considerable diminution in the opening of the glottis, so that in puppies recently born, or one or two days old, so little air enters the lungs, that when the experiment is made in ordinary cir- cumstances, the animal perishes as quickly as if it were entirely deprived of air ; it lives about half an hour. But if the same opera- tion be performed upon puppies of the same age benumbed with cold, they will live a whole day. In the first case the small quan- tity of air is insufficient to counteract the effect of the heat, but in the other it is suffi- cient to prolong life considerably. (Edwards, Lib. cit.) GENERAL TREATMENT OF ASPHYXIA. Having seen that Asphyxia may be induced in a variety of ways, the first object of the practitioner must evidently be directed to the removal of the individual from the continued influence of the exciting cause, and the second to the re-establishment of the respiratory func- tions of the circulation, and of the functions of the brain and nervous system. Temperature. — The researches of Dr. Edwards, which we have just quoted, are cal- culated to throw great light on the importance of attending to the degree of temperature to which the asphyxiated should be subjected, as well as the quantity and kind of covering which should be placed upon the body before attempting to make use of other restoratory measures. The practical inferences applicable to adult age, and particularly to man, w'hich he deduces from his experiments, are the following :— A person is asphyxiated by an excessive quan- tity of carbonic acid, in the air which he breathes ; the beating of the pulse is no longer sensible, the respiratory movements are not seen, his temperature however is still elevated. How should we act to recal life ? Although the action of the respiratory organs is no longer visible, all communication with the air is not cut off. The air is in contact with the skin, upon which it exerts a vivifying influ- ence ; it is also in contact with the lungs, in which it is renew'ed by the agitation which is constantly taking place in the atmosphere, and by the heat of the body which rarefies it. The heart continues to beat, and maintains a certain degree of circulation, although not perceptible by the pulse. The temperature of the body is too high to allow the feeble respiration to produce upon the system all the effect of which it is susceptible. The tem- perature must then be reduced, the patient must be withdrawn from the deleterious at- mosphere, stripped of his clothes, that the air may have a more extended action upon his