74 ALVINE CONCRETION. and the child gaining strength, he was sud- denly seized with a fit, during which he could not articulate ; after this, he had evidently lost the power of voluntary motion of the right arm and leg, to a considerable degree ; he became dull, had frequent vomiting, stupor, and other symptoms of hydrocephalus, which terminated in death on the 22nd of October. On opening the abdomen, the intestines ap- peared in a perfect state. On removing these from the right side, the caput coli was found higher up than usual, and partly behind and between it and the groin, the tumour was disco- vered which had occasioned so much anxiety to his attendants during his life. This tumour lay behind the peritoneum, which being re- moved carefully, a kidney of three or four times the natural size was brought into view. The ureter was very large, issuing from the pelvis of the kidney, but soon contracted to its usual size : it run across the psoas muscles, and was inserted into the bladder about the usual place. On examining the left side there was not a vestige of kidney or ureter. The bladder was much distended, and reached to the upper end of the kidney. When the scirrhous pylorus is lower down in the belly than usual, which very frequently happens, it may readily be mistaken for a con- cretion in the intestinal tube, being a hard moveable tumour, and accompanied by great derangement of the functions of the stomach and intestines. I have been consulted where a tumour originating from this cause was seated near to the navel, and was supposed to be an intestinal concretion. From what has been stated respecting the effects of alvine concretions upon the alimen- tary canal, it follows, that these may at first be moved from one part of it to another, but they at length become immoveable, a circum- stance which merits the most particular atten- tion, as it marks the progress of the disease, and points out the chance there maybe of dis- lodging the concretion. In consequence of the increasing bulk of the concretion, the obstruction of the intes- tines become daily greater and greater. In- flammation and febrile symptoms follow, and end in death. Appearances on dissection.—In the milder cases, the intestines are found to be consider- ably dilated, above the place where the con- cretion has been lodged, and in some there is a distinct sac, the coats of which attain a con- siderable thickness. In one instance, the ilio- caeeal valve had disappeared. The mucous membrane of the sac was much thickened and corrugated, so that the cavity which lodged the concretion seemed to be formed by a dilatation of the extremity of the ilium. The villi on the mucous membrane were not perceptible. Owing to the irritation of the concretion, the intestine is sometimes found contracted above and below the seat of the concretion ; and in the cases described by Monro, Turner, and also by Horstius, the con- cretion adhered to the inner surface of the sac. On some occasions, where death has been occasioned by inflammation, consequent to the obstruction caused by the concretion, the inflammation has not been confined to the intestines, but has been found extending over the surface of the peritoneum, together with an effusion of coagulable lymph, and the diffe- rent turns of the intestine in the vicinity of the concretion have been found adhering to each other, and to the neighbouring bowels. In a very few cases, ulceration of the intesti- nal tube has been detected allowing the con- cretion to make its way into an abscess. Such cases have been described by Marcet and Pe- nada. Treatment.—It has been already observed, that concretions lodged in the stomach have been occasionally discharged by vomiting, and those in the intestinal tube by the anus, espe- cially when they are of a small size, and there is reason to expect the latter favourable issue, where they create considerable pain in sitting, or upon going to stool, which is a proof that the concretion is lodged in the rectum, a fact which may be ascertained by an examination by the finger, or a bougie passed into that bowel. Concretions impacted within the alimentary canal generally give more or less uneasiness in proportion to their bulk, and when they give rise to severe colic, pain in the iliac re- gion, or top of the os sacrum, constipation alternating with diarrhoea, or obstinate cos- tiveness, much relief is given by the applica- tion of warm fomentations to the belly, and by emollients, into the composition of which warm olive or castor oil enters : and in order that they may fulfil their intention more effec- tually, the clyster is to be administered, whilst the patient rests on his knees and elbows, with the pelvis raised above the shoulders. Should the symptoms be more urgent, accom- panied with febrile disturbance, the same mode of treatment is to be adopted as in cases of inflammation. When the symptoms subside upon the discharge of the concretion by the anus, the disease has probably been removed ; but as in several cases there are two or more concretions lodged in the intestinal tube, the patient’s case should be attentively watched. As concretions have been occasionally dis- charged by vomiting, emetics have been re- commended ; but though those of the milder description may not do harm, the more acrid may bring on ileus. Mention has been made by some writers of attempting to dissolve concretions lodged within the stomach or in- testines ; but owing to the nature of these substances there seems to me to be no pros- pect of relief from such a class of remedies; and I am not acquainted with any remedy which possesses, in the slightest degree, the property of dissolving the concretion, which would not materially injure the mucous mem- brane of the alimentary tube ; so that much more is to be expected from the use of oily and emollient purgatives, combined with clys- ters ; and these must be persevered in for a considerable length of time. In the first and second editions of the book