EMPHYSEMA. 81 ever, are insufficient to prove the wound not to have implicated the parietal pleura ; by neglecting to employ percussion and auscul- tation, before the air had accumulated to any amount in the cellular membrane, M. Meniere lost the opportunity of establishing the only satisfactory evidence of the character of the wound, (when the lung is healthy and free from pleuritic adhesions,) namely, the absence or presence of the physical signs of pneumo- thorax. The conclusion of Boyer on this subject is still applicable : without denying the possibility of emphysema as a consequence of these wounds, that great surgeon was per- suaded that such an occurrence must, to say the least, be exceedingly rare ; and believed that authors, who affirm they have observed it, may have formed an erroneous estimate of the direction and depth of the wound. D. Communications between the aliment- ary canal and cellular membrane. Hennen states that he once observed emphysema pro- duced by a wound of the oesophagus ; it is to be regretted he has not furnished us with the particulars of the case, for, so far as we are aware, it is without a parallel. The gases contained in the intestinal canal accumulate, in rare instances, to such an extent, as to produce rupture of its coats, and, consequently, ditfusion of its gaseous contents through the cellular membrane. Ruminating animals are subject to this accident, and the gas effused occasionally penetrates into every corner of the body. Such an occurrence in the human subject is exceedingly uncommon, and even when rupture, of the stomach for example, is produced by gaseous distension, emphysema by no means necessarily follows. Haller, however, mentions having seen a case of tympanitis so intense, that rupture of the mucous and muscular coats took place, and the fetid air insinuated itself into the sub- peritoneal cellular membrane ; but the peri- toneum had not given way, nor was the em- physema other than strictly local. P. Frank recognises this species of emphysema, and conceives that worms may, by perforating the intestinal tunics, give rise to it. Professor Maijolin has described an im- portant case of emphysema produced by rup- ture of the bowels from external injury. An individual received a violent contusion on the left side, the external marks of which were chiefly visible in the abdominal parietes and hip ; thirty hours after the accident emphy- sema appeared in the former situation, rapidly spread to the right of the abdomen and to the chest, and continued to extend in spite of free scarification, until the death of the patient, which occurred six hours after the first ap- pearance of the emphysema. Four of the left ribs were found fractured, and the ab- dominal muscles torn through superiorly at the left side ; here, too, was a considerable accumulation of blood mixed with air ; the portion of intestine in juxtaposition with the muscular laceration was cut completely across, eighteen inches below the duodenum. A quantity of blood and chymous matter was found in the cavity of the peritoneum, that membrane itself red and injected, the sub- peritoneal cellular tissue distended with air and blood. The lungs were healthy, and there was no emphysema in the tissues adjoining the fractured ribs '. E. The gas formed during the process of gangrenous putrefaction gives rise to a local emphysema, the diagnostic importance of which, announcing as it does the total cessa- tion of life in the affected part, is well under- stood by practitioners. It has been stated that gangrene, when attended with emphy- sema, has an especial tendency to spread ; if correctly made, this observation may become practically valuable. The progressive develop- ment of gas will in some cases as accurately indicate the extension and course of mortifi- cation, as the change in colour of the integu- ments. Emphysema is not uncommonly observed to follow violent contusions with abundant ecchymosis ; Dr. Copland has noticed its oc- currence in the vicinity of carious vertebrae. It is probable that when the disorder appears after the bites of insects and reptiles, it should be classed with the present category in respect of its immediate cause. § II. Artificial Emphysema. Emphysema may be produced artificially to any extent, by making an opening into the subcutaneous cellular membrane, and prac- tising insufflation. This process, employed on animals intended for the table so early as the time of Aristotle, is said to have the effect of fattening the animals so treated, and improving the character of cow’s milk. Schulze relates that oxen thus insufflated suffer from dejection for a couple of days, on account, as he assumes, of the pain they suffer ; but that when the emphysema disappears, they recover their liveliness, get a voracipus appetite, and in the course of six weeks become exceedingly fat. But the possibility of inducing emphysema artificially is only important to the surgeon, as being a practice frequently had recourse to by malingerers, for the purpose of simu- lating various diseases, more especially, per- haps, hernia, hydrocele, and other affections causing enlargement of the scrotum. Army surgeons frequently meet with individuals who endeavour to pass off these artificial emphy- semata as the effects of disease ; and, accord- ing to Hennen, the deception is not so easily discovered in the case of the scrotum, as may be imagined. The orifice in the integuments 1 In the Memoires de I’Academic des Sciences for 1753, p. 131, is a curious account of a chicken four months old, subject to emphysema from birth, and relieved by scarification from time to time. On dis- section a knot of intestine was found to have passed through the muscles of the abdomen, and lodged in the upper part of the thigh ; this hernia was perforated with numerous minute foramina, whereby its interior communicated with the cellular tissue, as it did like- wise by a complicated route with the lung.