ANEURISM. 215 v point where the ligature is about to be applied for the cure of the disease, and hence one cause of many of those fatal haemorrhages which have taken place after operations of aneurism. If the aneurism occurs in a healthy constitution, in a part of the body within reach of surgical treatment, and has been caused by an injury, the case is not of so grave a nature. But experience has shown that even the existence of more than one aneurism, in an external situation, does not present an insurmountable obstacle to the successful treatment of the disease. Two aneurisms in the same person have been in several cases cured by the applications of ligatures on the femoral arteries. Home tied both the femoral arteries in the same person for popliteal aneurisms in both limbs : the interval between both operations being only five weeks. Freer also operated in a similar case. Valentine Mott, of New York, treated a third case after the same manner, the interval between the two applica- tions of the ligature being only fourteen days. The result, in all these cases, was successful. But the aneurismal tumours were all exter- nal. As regards the nature of the prognosis, a distinction is made, and very properly, if one of the tumours happen to be internal. In such a case, if a ligature be placed on the artery for the cure of the external aneurism, it will have the effect of accelerating the progress of the internal one, and the opera- tion therefore would be not only useless, but mischievous. In general, when the affection is of long standing, and has involved the surrounding parts to a considerable extent, the collateral vessels are often so extensively obliterated, as to be insufficient for nourishing the limb. An aneurismal tumour that has attained an enormous bulk, may already have produced alterations of so serious a nature in the mus- cles, nerves, articulations, and even in the bones, that a favourable prognosis, as regards the cure by ligature at least, cannot be enter- tained. In such cases, amputation only can save the patient. When gangrene attacks an aneurismal tumour, the danger is imminent ; but even in such cases, the ligature may still be applied. Sir A. Cooper tied the external iliac artery in two cases of inguinal aneurism in which gangrene had already commenced. The tumours suppurated kindly, and the sacs becoming covered with granulations gradually cicatrized. In aneurisms, as in all other affections of a serious nature that require operations, the general state of the patient must be taken into account, for the gravity of the case may often depend more on this, than on the local disease. In a scorbutic, syphilitic, or gouty diathesis, the prognosis cannot be otherwise than unfavourable. TREATMENT. From the dangerous nature of aneurism, its treatment has necessarily engaged much at- tention, and it will be found that the diffe* rent therapeutic means which have been successfully employed for the cure of this disease have all been in strict imitation of those spontaneous curative processes which have already been described. As the spon- taneous cure of an aneurism is effected by laminae of concreted fibrine lining, and even completely filling up, the sac, thus enabling it to resist that impetus of the blood which causes the enlargement or rupture of an aneurismal tumour, and as the formation of a fibrinous concretion, or the process of coagulation, as it has been usually deno- minated, proceeds more or less quickly, ac- cording to the force of the circulation of the blood in the tumour, any endeavour to cure the disease must be conducted with a view either to diminish or entirely arrest the cir- culation of the blood within the sac. Two principles of treatment have, therefore, been held in view for the cure of aneurism ; the one having for its object to diminish the force of the circulation, and the other completely to prevent the circulation of the blood in the tumour. The first of these is effected by lessening the vigour of the action of the heart, and diminishing the quantity of the general mass of blood; whilst the second is to produce a mechanical hinderance to the flow of blood within the sac. Valsalva's method.—For the treatment of aneurism according to the first mode, the sys- tem generally employed has been that which was originally proposed by Valsalva, and which many others since his time have suc- cessfully adopted. Valsalva conceived that a radical cure of aneurism might be accomplished by reducing the force of the circulation to a degree compatible merely with the continuance of life, and this he effected by repeated ab- stractions of blood, first in large, and then in small quantities,—by limiting the quantity of food and drink, and likewise preventing, as much as possible, any inordinate action of the heart, by keeping the patient con- stantly in a supine posture, and avoiding all mental excitement. This system of treat- ment was carried by Valsalva to such an ex- tent that, “ultimately the patient was only allowed half a pint of soup in the morning, and a quarter of a pint in the evening, and a very small quantity of medicated water. When so reduced that he could not raise himself in bed, the quantity of nourishment was again gradually increased, until his strength was restored.” Experience amply proved the efficacy of Val- salva’s system of treatment, and there is the testimony of many eminent men ol the pro- gress of numerous aneurismal tumours having been arrested, and others completely cured, by this depletive system. It happens, however, that this plan of treat- ing aneurism, as recommended by Valsalva, is not very generally adopted, more particularly in this country, and this may arise partly from the important advancement which has of late