Gil CANCER, PHYSIOLOGY OF. is produced not by the nature, but by the mode of combination and arrangement of the ultimate physical elements of the diseased growth. As well might it be contended that calomel and corrosive sublimate are not hete- rologous to each other, because they are both composed of atoms of chlorine and mercury. It may be well to remark, that whatever apparent resemblance the doctrine of Muller bears to the cystic theory of Dr. Hodgkin, there is no real similarity between them. In the one case the phenomena are microscopi- cal ; in the other putatively traceable with the unassisted eye: Dr. Hodgkin’s cysts form only the containing element of cancerous tissues and do not constitute their contained matter ; Muller’s formative nuclear cells enter into the composition of both, and especially of the latter : according to our countryman new cysts form from the walls of old ones, and such, too, is the fact in true cystic structures ; the German observer has on the other hand, as we have seen, shown that the formative mi- croscopic cells grow from nuclei which may themselves originate free in the interior of or outside the mother-cells. The variable condition of some of the pro- perties of carcinoma next demands attention. The causes of its variation in consistence may be first examined. Laennec, believing he had observed that, when first deposited, carcino- matous matter is invariably firm and hard, and that it subsequently becomes soft and diffluent, as a consequence of its further de- velopment, looked upon the degree of consis- tence of the heterologous growth as a measure of its advancement towards perfect evolution. Hence originated his establishment of two stages of development—those of crudeness and of softening. But numerous pathologists, who have examined cancer since Laennec’s time, have ascertained that its degree of consistence does not by any means furnish a correct esti- mate of the time elapsed since its formation, that the morbid matter may be extremely soft, nay, diffluent from the first moment it is per- ceptible by our senses, and hence that such state does not involve as a necessary condition a previous stage of induration. Nevertheless, thus much of Laennec’s doctrine seems well founded,—that a tendency to decrease in den- sity, no matter how soft they may have origi- nally been, is an attribute of these products. His error lay in supposing that they must be primitively hard, and that their subsequent semi-liquefaction was a physiological result of development, instead of being, as it really is, a pathological process, the means whereby their inherent tendency to destruction is realised. The chief circumstances affecting the phy- siological density of carcinoma are the nature of the deposit itself, and the peculiarities of the tissue or organ in which it is developed. If examined under favourable conditions for such investigation, that is when their proprieties cannot be materially or at all influenced by the nature of the part in which they are formed, manifest proof is obtained that the consistence of cancerous growths may depend on peculiarity of intimate composition. Sub- cutaneous tumours, for instance, belonging to the same species, exposed to the same extrin- sic influences, discovered simultaneously and advancing in growth coevally, occasionally differ extremely in point of consistence ; one may possess the firmness of a fibrous growth, another the pulpy softness of semi-putrid brain. Under these circumstances the diffe- rence depends on the relative proportions of the contained matter and containing cellular intersections. The consistence varies, too, according to the species of cancer. Again, the structure, density, situation and con- nexions of parts modify this property, as Dr. Carswell has pointed out. “ The consistence of the new growth is influenced by its relative quantity to that of the tissues, in which it is contained [in other words, by the space free for its formation], or of a difference in the de- gree of resistance opposed by the latter to its accumulation or development. Thus it is more consistent in the liver than in the lungs or brain, in the skin than in the cellular tissue or a mucous membrane.” But this doctrine is to be received with some restrictions ; in the areolar structure of the bones as well as in their medullary cavity, cancerous growths are frequently of cerebriform consistence: scirrhus occurs in the brain ; and encephaloid of the firmest character in the cellular tissue under the cerebral arachnoid. Besides, growths pre- senting the opposite extremes of density are often found in close contiguity in the same organ. The dimensions of carcinomatous growths are influenced, and even more distinctly so, by precisely the same circumstances as its consistence. Thus, in respect of species, scir- rhous formations, unless when of the infiltrated kind, reach a moderate size only, whilst en- cephaloid masses occasionally attain a vast bulk, and colloid productions observe a mean in this respect. Again, in dense parenchy- mata even encephaloid rarely exceeds an orange in size, in the lungs and testes it grows much larger, while in the subcutaneous cellu- lar tissue it attains monstrous magnitude. The influence of pressure is here remarkable ; while firmly bound down by fibrous resisting tissues, their development is obstructed, but when this obstacle is removed, the immediate result is a sudden increase of bulk. On this physiological fact has been founded one of the methods of treating carcinoma. In propor- tion to their perfection of vascularization is the facility with which they convert into their own substance the materials circulating within them, and hence too the volume they acquire. The rapidity of growth of carcinoma is simi- larly affected by the same agencies. Ence- phaloid holds the first rank, colloid the second in point of rapid development. In respect of the influence of pressure, an encephaloid tu- mour, which may have taken months to acquire moderate dimensions, rapidly increases in size, when perforation of a compressing tissue R n 2