400 ARTHRITIS, TRAUMATIC. the incision. There are no facts on record to show that this false membrane ultimately becomes converted into cartilage, but Beclard asserts, very positively, that this tissue may be reproduced1; and the frequency with which cartilage is found among the adventi- tious analogue deposits may incline us to adopt his opinion. Where, in disarticulations, the cartilage is purposely scored or scraped, the flaps adhering to the cartilaginous surfaces of the stump heal by the first intention, but if suppuration comes on, the cartilage ulcerates and gradually becomes detached in flakes. It is extremely probable that another consequence of the wounds of cartilage may be ulceration, almost the only form in which chondritis dis- plays itself. After an arthritis following a severe wound of the knee-joint, in which the patella had been completely divided by a bill-hook, and the cartilage of the femur wounded, I saw the cartilage of these two bones extensively destroyed and worm-eaten, by ulceration; but in this, and in all other similar cases, it must remain for the present an undetermined question, whether the ulcer- ation is the effect of a morbid action induced in the cartilage by the wound, or whether it is owing, as in ordinary disease, to the pro- pagation of inflammation from the synovial membrane. The treatment of complicated wounds of joints of this class, must be in the first in- stance precisely similar to that already de- scribed as applicable to simple wounds. Where the cartilage is affected, it will be right to watch over the patient with increased care,— to enjoin upon him perfect rest for a longer time, and to treat with greater vigour any in- dications of debility and disease which the articulation may offer. When the ligaments have been divided, a very nice point will test the judgment and pathological knowledge of the surgeon. If too early motion be given, the intervening cellular tissue, which forms the bond of union between the divided ends of the ligament, will admit of great distension, —the ligament will in consequence pass into the condition termed diastasis, or, in other words, become relaxed, and the articulation will become weak, unstable, and constantly liable to sprain or luxation. It is by a know- ledge of this fact, that Dr. Stromeyer has been successful in treating varus. The wounds of a fibro-cartilaginous structure, such as the tendo Achilles, heal like those of liga- ment. Availing himself of this fact, Stro- meyer, in those cases of varus which depend on extreme contraction of the gastrocnemii muscles, has divided the tendo Achilles, and, by communicating motion to it at a very early period after the establishment of reunion, has succeeded in increasing the length of the tendon to such an extent that the patient has 1 Bcclard says, that in diarthrodia! articulations the destruction of the cartilages is sometimes followed by their regeneration very nearly perfect, but the new cartilage, being tnin, has a violet colour from its semi- transparency.— Anatomic Generate. been restored to the natural use of the foot. If, on the other hand, the joint remain too long motionless, the ligament becomes stiff and unyielding, and long treatment is required to restore the proper flexibility. No certain rule can be laid down to guide the practitioner into the safe and middle path between these two evils; since differences of constitution, and the uncertain extents to which the di- vided ends ol the ligament may be separated, occasion frequent variations. The best guide is to be found in the feelings of the patient. If, on permitting a little gentle exercise, the joint be found weak and unstable, perfect rest must be enjoined for some time longer. In all cases, the application of a bandage, or of a casing of adhesive strapping will be found ad- vantageous, when the joint is about to be again exercised after division of one of its ligaments. b. Wounds of joints complicated ivith injury to articular bone.—Wounds of joints, with this complication, are usually very severe ; and although the assistance of the surgeon may frequently, and even generally be available to the preservation of life, the integrity of the limb can rarely be preserved. The large ma- jority of these wounds are produced by pro- jectiles, but there is no form of instrument which may not also produce them if great force be applied. I have seen the patella completely divided by a bill-hook ; and in an- other case, the cancelli of the humerus laid bare, the elbow-joints widely exposed, the inner condyle broken off, and the cartilage torn away in flakes by the friction of a cart- wheel. The diagnosis of these wounds is in general easy, since the accompanying destruc- tion of soft parts will usually admit of our ex- amining the joint by the eye, or by the touch. The most difficult cases are those in which a ball, having entered by a narrow opening, has been turned aside from its direct course by meeting with the bone, and, having splin- tered the head of the bone, and lacerated the synovial capsule, has become imbedded. It would intrench on the province of others, to enter at large into the consideration of this and some corresponding phenomena, which will be treated of under the head of Gun- shot-wounds. For the same reason, the reader is referred for the symptoms, progress, termination, and morbid appearances of the wounds of bone, to the article under that head. The present paper is devoted, not to the description of these complications them- selves, but of the effect which they produce upon the progress and treatment of a wounded joint. The remarks therefore on every fea- ture of these wounds, except the treatment, will be exceedingly brief. The progress of these cases may be divided into three stages. The injury, as we have al- ready mentioned, is usually very severe, and the shock to the constitution consequently great. During the six, eight, or twelve first hours after the accident, the patient is either in a state of depression, or is so calm and