BURNS AND SCALDS. M2 quires a reddish tint ; the same is frequently met with in a fluid lubricating the cavities of the pleura, the pericardium, and the perito- neum. These contain, in like manner, sangui- nolent mucus ; their lining membrane being dotted with red points, exhibit considerable vascular injection. In the case of a girl who died of tetanic convulsion on the nineteenth day from a severe burn of the abdomen and lower extremities, cadaveric inspection revealed the phenomena of high irritation of the alimentary canal, the stomach perforated to the extent of a crown- piece, and the aorta inflamed '. When the shock has been less powerful, we find various symptoms of nervous exhaustion and diminished vitality induced. There may be total or partial abolition of consciousness, from which, if the sufferer be roused, he evinces languor and apathy, and replies slowly and imperfectly to questions that are put to him. The sensibility is impaired ; the pupils are dilated, as if labouring under compression of the brain ; the heart is fluttering ; the pulse is frequent and feeble, often scarcely to be felt at the wrist. The surface of the body, in the parts unscathed by the fire, is cold and pallid, sometimes bedewed with a clammy sweat. The respiration is slow and difficult: this difficulty of breathing is greater than what is observed after other accidents, and is to be ascribed to the great sympathy subsisting between the skin and the lungs; the inter- rupted function of the one rendering imper- fect the nervous communication to the other. There is great prostration of the muscular power, the limbs remain immovable and abandoned to their own weight, agitated from time to time by convulsive shudders, or spas- modic twitehings. Low muttering delirium is not unfrequent. This state of collapse may abide for hours, and then passes off, or it may terminate in coma, convulsions, and death. The recovery from the above condi- tion is announced by signs of reaction ; the development of which is due, in a great mea- sure, to the intensity of pain. Such are the appalling consequences of severe scorching of the living tissues, in- duced by pain and nervous shock. Apart from these, there remains another mode in which these accidents may prove alike speed- ily mortal, where no disorganization of the textures has taken place. That is, in burns and scalds of the first or second degrees, in which more than two-thirds of the whole cutaneous surface is affected. These slighter forms of lesion, when not extensive, and where the patient is endowed with a moderate share of sensibility, may be regarded as a purely local affection, and not likely to be attended with any general disturbance. But when the injury has attained, or passed beyond the above assigned limits, the most disastrous ter- mination may be anticipated. Here the fatal event is brought about, neither by the amount 1 Pai'diis, Ess.ai sur la Brulure. Paris, 1828. of pain produced, nor by the degree of nervous irritation, but by the perturbed equilibrium of the animal ceconomy, dependent on the sudden suspension of the function of the skin. Rust has designated this as death beginning at the skin—cutaneous asphyxia. In such cases, the pulse, at first rapid and contracted, soon diminishes in frequency, becoming slow and intermittent, indicating a distinct obstruc- tion to the circulating current. Depletion affords only transient relief; and the flow of black blood from the open vein stops long ere the desired quantity be withdrawn ; or, as frequently occurs, no blood whatever can be obtained, though several veins have been punctured. The breathing becomes laborious and oppressed ; dyspnoea, together with intense feeling of anxiety, precede disso- lution. The same train of phenomena has been observed to supervene on other affec- tions of the skin, when its functions, correla- tive to the organs of circulation and respira- tion, have been suddenly interrupted. M. Marjolin has related an instance of this de- scription in his lectures. A negro, employed at the Bains Vigier, in Paris, wishing on one occasion to warm his limbs, benumbed by cold, during a rigorous winter, immersed himself in a bath heated to a high temperature. It was not long before he began to complain of a general feeling of uneasiness, together with lively pain of the skin. He was immediately withdrawn, and carried to the Hotel Dieu, where he expired, in the space of thirty-six hours, from the effect of his imprudence. For the most part, in burns of the two first degrees, the pain immediately consecutive to the action of the caloric, continues as long as the cutaneous irritation which gave rise to it ; becomes mitigated in proportion as that irrita- tion diminishes, and at length subsides. On the other hand, when the internal layer of the epidermis, or rete mucosum, and the papillary surface of the integument, have been disor- ganized, the pain abates on the formation of the eschar, the sensibility of the subjacent textures being apparently deadened. The patient is then tranquil, and free from suffer- ing. But this deceitful calm is of brief dura- tion. Towards the fourth day nature begins the process of separation of the dead parts. This is accomplished by the living parts taking on the process of ulceration, and be- coming detached from the eschar. The ulce- ration begins at the margin of the slough, and gradually proceeds to the centre, as formerly stated, undermining progressively until the inanimate portion is entirely severed from the living tissues. At this period the pain recurs, as formerly stated, modified in intensity, ac- cording to the firmness of structure, and sensi- bility of the part. The system having fairly recovered from the effects of collapse, reaction takes place as in an ague after a cold fit. The pulse becomes frequent, but variable in strength and frequency, the skin is hot, the tongue white, the face flushed ; pain is complained of in the head, the chest, or the abdomen ; the respi-