DELIVERANCE. 867 immediate haemorrhage; or if it remain at- tached to the flabby uterine walls, they are drawn downwards with the placenta, and in- version of the uterus is thereby produced. The object is not so much to remove the pla- centa as to obtain a full and permanent con- traction of the uterus, for in no other way can the safety of the patient be secured than by thus effecting closure of the vessels whose mouths have been opened by the separation of the placenta. In the majority of cases the friction recommended above, with a dose or two of ergot, and a little stimulation of the cervix uteri by the fingers will effect this. The latter means, I think, has scarcely at- tracted so much attention as it merits, for as irritation of the sphincters of the rectum and bladder, and of the orifices of the excretory ducts, stimulates these several organs to ex- pulsatory action, so it would appear that irri- tation of the cervix uteri is calculated to ex- cite contraction of the whole organ. Putting aside any analogy which may be drawn be- tween the cervix uteri and the sphincters of the hollow organs, from the presence of a cir- cular band of muscular fibres, we find that the cervix is more largely supplied with nerves than is any other part of the uterus, and in common with the sphincters of the rectum and bladder is supplied by the hypogastric nerve. Whether we strengthen our argu- ment by the reflex doctrine or not, the prac- tical fact is unquestionable, that gentle irrita- tion of the cervix by the finger, is a very effi- cient means of inducing and maintaining ute- rine contraction. When haemorrhage is going on, we are not inclined to waste much time in cold abdominal effusion, or the injection of cold water or vine- gar and water into the uterus, as recommended by many authorities, but at once proceed to remove the placenta by the introduction of the hand. The arm being bared and anointed, the hand is to be brought into the form of a cone, and guided by the cord, to be passed gently into the uterus. This if carefully done, causes very little pain to the patient, as the uterus itself and all the external parts are greatly relaxed. If the placenta be com- pletely thrown off from its attachment, it is to be grasped by the hand, and by moving it about a little, the uterus will be stimulated to contraction, and the hand with the placenta expelled together. If the separation is only partial, the fingers must be passed between the uterine and placental surfaces, and when the mass is entirely separated, it may be re- moved as before. Great assistance is gained by steadying and grasping the uterine tumour with the disengaged hand placed upon the abdomen. It is very rarely that these means fail, and then only when the powers of the patient have been extremely depressed, but there are two cautions to be borne in mind whenever we endeavour to excite uterine con- traction by friction and pressure on the hypo- gastric region. In the first place, if the ute- rus be in a state of flabby relaxation, direct pressure downwards made upon the fundus is especially calculated to produce inversion of the organ, and is proved to have done so in a case recorded by Dr. Doherty of the Dublin Lying-in-Hospital. Again, friction or pres- sure applied just above the pubis, supposing the patient to remain on her side, induces not the general contraction which we desire, but an irregular and spasmodic contraction which greatly increases the difficulty of the case. To avoid this, the relaxed uterus must be raised from the side to which it has fallen, or the female be placed on her back, when on grasping the fundus it is felt to contract, and then by directing gentle kneading pressure in the axis of the brim, the placenta will in the great majority of cases, readily pass into the vagina. When called to a case where the haemor- rhage has been profuse, and all uterine con- tractility is lost, we must regulate our treat- ment according to the continuance of the hae- morrhage, for if it have ceased for a time, it would be absurd to open more bleeding ves- sels by completing the separation of the pla- centa, and empty the uterus, leaving it in a flabby relaxed condition. The first question therefore is, with regard to the propriety of stimulants, which must be freely exhibited when there is any immediate danger of sink- ing, remembering, however, that the depressed state of vascular action, of which syncope is the most alarming evidence, is a condition in which the blood very readily coagulates and fills up the orifices of the bleeding vessels. Unless, therefore, some alarming symptom be present, it would be dangerous to stimulate the circulating system to detach the clots, which, in the absence of uterine contraction, are the sole barriers between the patient and death. But if the surface of the body is clammy and cold, the face and lips blanched and ghastly, the pulse very rapid, intermitting, or imperceptible, the breath cold, or there is vomiting, sighing, jactitation, or amaurosis, hot brandy and water must be freely adminis- tered until the body becomes warmer, the pulse rises, and the lips become more florid. Any quantity, however large, may be given until these effects are attained. Manual in- terference must be regulated by the persist- ence of haemorrhage. If it have ceased in a case of alarming collapse, we must trust to stimulants, ergot, and the application of cold, for if the clots be disturbed, a fresh gush of blood takes place, and the patient dies ; but if the flooding continue either by gushes, clots, or draining, in addition to the means just mentioned, one hand should be passed into the uterus and stimulate its parietes, or, as Gooch recommends, compress the bleeding vessels with the knuckles, while the other hand grasps the uterine tumour from without. The aorta may be readily compressed, and some cases have been recently published in the French journals, proving that it is a means of considerable value in restraining the flooding for a time. 3 K 2