ENTROPIUM. 135 tenth of an inch, from the margin of the eye- lid. After a few minutes, the eyelid is to be dried with a bit of lint and the application of the acid repeated, and this again and again, until a sufficient contraction of the skin is effected to bring the eyelid into its proper position. It may be necessary after a time to repeat the application of the acid. Cauterization is not admissible in cases where the skin is very superabundant. It is best adapted for slight and recent cases in young persons. Entropium from a contracted and deformed state of the tarsal cartilage. The upper eyelid is as liable to this form of entropium as the lower; very often both are affected together. In long continued ophthalmia tarsi, or ca- tarrhal or scrofulous conjunctivitis, the tarsal cartilage suffers. It becomes indurated and contracted on its inner surface, whilst it is shortened transversely or from canthus to canthus ; the effect of this is, that the margin of the eyelid is turned in right against the eyeball, and cannot by any traction on the integuments be brought back into its proper position, as in entropium from relaxation. The edge of the eyelid may indeed be drawn from its contact with the eyeball, but it still remains curved inwards. In this form of entropium, the margin of the eyelid is often thickened and irregular, while the eyelashes few and dwarfish are also inverted, constituting trichiasis in addition to the entropium. Allied to the above form of entropium, is that which is sometimes produced by injury of the conjunctiva and cartilage, from the in- trusion of lime or other caustic substances into the eye. The contraction attendant on the cicatrization gives rise to inversion of the eyelid, which is often conjoined with sym- blepharon. Treatment—Ware’s Operation.—As in this form of entropium, the inversion is owing in a great degree to the transverse shortening of the tarsus, Mr. Ware, in order to remedy this, recommended a perpendicular incision to be made through the whole substance of the lid at its temporal extremity or in its middle. Mr. Tyrrell tells us he has performed this operation both on the superior and inferior palpebra, and in every case hitherto, with perfect success. In some cases, he says the simple perpendicular section (near the centre of the eyelid) is followed by a rapid removal of the inversion. In other cases it is neces- sary in order to complete the cure, to remove a part of the integument with the scissors or destroy it with caustic. The perpendicular section of the lid is immediately followed by a separation of the edges of the wound ; and it presents an outline similar to that of the letter V ; wide at the ciliary margin, and terminating in an acute point in the opposite direction. This wound is afterwards gradu- ally filled by granulations, and very little de- formity results. Crompton’s Operation modified.—Supposing the upper eyelid to be the subject of this operation, two perpendicular incisions through its whole substance are made, one near the external canthus, the other near the inner canthus A transverse fold of the skin of the lid thus set free is then to be removed from near its ciliary margin, and the edges of the gap thus produced, brought together by two or three stitches. The threads forming the stitches are to be left long. The eyelid is now to be everted and turned up, and kept in this position for eight or ten days by means of the threads fixed to the forehead by strips of plaister. The perpendicular incisions are Fig. 244. thus prevented from uniting by the first in- tention. They are permitted to heal only by granulation. After the removal of the liga- tures, the eyelid is, by the cicatrization of the perpendicular wounds which ensues, gradually drawn into its natural position without being again inverted. During the time the eyelid is kept everted and turned up, it is to be covered with a piece of linen spread with sim- ple cerate. In cases of entropium of the lower eyelid from transversely contracted tarsus, I have performed the operation in the following manner with perfect success. An incision though the whole thickness of the lid being made perpendicular to its edge near the outer canthus, a piece of the skin of the lid is excised, and then the lid kept in the everted position by fixing on the cheek the end of the thread forming the suture, which unites the edges of 1 The first incision will necessarily wound the lower mass of the lacrymal gland, together with some of the lacrymal ducts ; but in the cases in which I have performed the operation, 1 have not observed any lacrymal fistula or other bad consequence follow. The incision near the inner canthus ought always to he on the temporal side of the punctum, in order to avoid cutting the canalieule. Sec Mackenzie, Prac- tical Treatise, 3rd, Ed. p. 25. and Cyclopedia of Ana- tomy and Physiologv, Article, Lacrymal Organs. 1