636 CANCER, PATHOLOGY OF. have already been sufficiently described, as well as the characters of the ulcer ; the fact of a sanies of fetid odour and peculiarly acrid qualities being more or less abundantly thrown out by the disorganized surface has also been dwelt upon at length. The contact of this matter with the cutaneous surface may pro- duce irritation, erythema, and even corrosive ulceration of the parts surrounding the ulcer. The pain usually increases considerably in violence at this stage of the disease ; its cha- racter is subject however to vary, as in the earlier periods. The ulcerated surface is fre- quently quite indolent to the touch. Hae- morrhage now becomes of more constant oc- currence, originating in the manner already explained. (b.) General.—While the local changes ad- vance in the diseased formation, the constitu- tion almost invariably suffers in a marked and peculiar manner. Heterologous growths pos- sess the property of disturbing, each after its special mode, the phenomena of circulation, nutrition, and innervation, and of producing thereby a depraved condition of the organism, designated by the general term cachexia. The group of symptoms constituting the cancerous variety of this condition, when combined in their most marked and characteristic form, may be stated as follows : it is not intended in this enumeration to display the order of their occurrence ; as this varies, we may al- most say, infinitely, we have thought it better to group them according to the functional system affected. The circulation is hurried, there are oc- casional fits of shivering, alternating with heat of surface, perspiration or sweatings, especially by night; the pulse, unless when the patient has been debilitated by the frequent recur- rence of haemorrhage, has a wiry somewhat resisting character; the fever gradually as- sumes the hectic type ; the night is passed in a state of distressing watchfulness, or total in- somnia ; the solid portion of the blood gradu- ally loses its healthy proportion, and passive serous effusions into the pleurae, peritoneum, or general cellular membrane follow': in cases attended with repeated and severe haemorrhage the arteries become the seat of some modifi- cation of the bruits de soufflet or de diab/e, as we have had occasion more especially to ob- serve in uterine cancer. The patient loses his appetite, takes a com- plete disgust for food of every kind ; the small quantity he swallows is imperfectly digested, nausea or actual vomiting frequently occurs ; there is persistent thirst and constipation, * As regards the condition of the kidneys and urine in cases of such effusion, the investigations of M. Rayer show that there is frequently neither co-existing renal lesion nor albuminuria; he alludes to two cases wherein chronic albuminous nephritis (Bright’s dis- ease) “occurred in the course of cancerous disease of the stomach ” (Maladies dcs Reins, t. ii. p. 348, 1840.), but tbere is no evidence given to prove that the former was an effect of the latter. M. Martin Solon (De 1’Albuminuric, p. lb’8. 1838) relates a doubtful case of the same kind. alternating with colliquative diarrhoea; to- wards the close an aphthous eruption occa- sionally appears in the mouth, as is observed in other lingering chronic diseases attended with marked debility. The nutritive functions become impaired, the tissues grow soft and flaccid, the patient loses flesh, the fatty tissues arc completely ab- sorbed, the very skin seems to undergo at- tenuation, the emaciation proceeding to perfect marasmus, unless when oedema of the cellular membrane interferes with its visible progress. The skin, and even the mucous membranes, assume a peculiar straw-coloui ed and waxy appearance, accompanied with a semi-trans- parent putfiness—one of the most character- istic marks of this form of cachexia, though not actually peculiar to it. Debility and exhaustion become extreme, and occasionally make such rapid progress as of themselves to threaten the existence of the patient. The countenance maintains an ha- bitual expression of care and suffering, the features are contracted, the temper morose, and the sufferer at length sinks—this is said to be most frequent in cases of cancer of the stomach—into a state of actual despair. The quantity of circulating fluids gradually decreases, and the patient, unless cut off by some intercurrent malady, worn out with pain, debility, and fever, dies in a state resembling a prolonged fainting fit. Death is also fre- quently the result of some local irritation ; in old subjects of latent pneumonia. In other cases, as when the alimentary canal is ob- structed, the fatal termination is the direct effect of inanition ; and certain peculiar modes of death will be alluded to in Part II. The in- tellectual faculties lose their clearness towards the close, but there is no actual cerebral af- fection, unless when the contents of the cra- nium become the seat of the morbid deposition. To this catalogue of evils may be added, as of not very uncommon occurrence, a morbid change of the bones, exhibiting itself in some one of the following forms: 1. atrophy of the spongy and compact structures from defective nutrition ; 2. excess of inorganic matter in their composition; 3. defective supply of sa- line materials, in consequence of which, the bony tissue appears as if it had been mace- rated in a mineral acid (carnification); 4. carci- noma of their substance. The first of these forms is singularly rare ; Recamicr, however, appears to have met with an example of it: of the third we have not met with an authentic instance, and insert it rather hesitatingly. In the first three cases, the morbid state is a manifestation of the cachexia; in the fourth, an evidence of the diathesis having reached the bones. In the first, second, and fourth cases, especially the last, fractures occur with extra- ordinary facility. In cases of cancerous depo- sition in the bones, the fracture may either arise from complete transformation of a portion of the cylinder into cancerous matter, or from the pressure of a central growth, causing (he absorption of the compact tissue. (See Fig. 162,