CEPHALHEMATOMA. 3 C 2 made to establish its diagnosis some centuries since Our countryman Gooch 2 appears to have been among the first, however, to give a general description of these tumours ; twenty years later the elder Osiander drew attention to them in his own country, hut, like Gooch, ex- hibited very imperfect acquaintance with their nature ; and from the appearance of a paper byr Michaclis in 1799, may be dated the really careful investigation of which they have been made the subject. Our object in the follow- ing pages will be to describe succinctly the results of these investigations, and to exhibit in the present diversity of opinion on some important points, the ample field still left for accurate enquiry. According to the observations of different authors, effusions of pure blood may occur at the period of birth, either outside, within, or in the substance of the cranial bones; ad- mitting these observations to be correct we should have an extra-cranial, an intra-cranial, and an interstitial variety of the affection. § 1. Extra-Cranial Cephalhematoma. The effused blood may in this variety be contained between the pericranium and bone (sub-pericranial c. Valleix) ; or be external to that membrane (extra-pericranial c.) (a.) Sub-Pericranial.—(Syn. Abscessus ca- pitis sanguineus recens natorum [Palletta, Uieffenbach], Ecchymoma capitis neonat. [Carus Brandan]. Ecchymoma capitis neonat. cariosum [Plank]. Ecchymosis capitis [Osian- der]. Thrombus neonatorum [Golis, Duges].) The majority of writers point out the second and third days after birth as the period within which the formation of these tumours com- mences, and such is very frequently, but not invariably the fact. Osiander affirmed long since that the tumour may be occasionally detected before the rupture of the membranes. Stien saw it developed one or two hours after labour, and Naegele has discovered it imme- diately after birth. The latter observer re- gards the pre-existence of the tumour to birth as incontestable, and ascribes its usual non- discovery till the second or third day to its previous small size. M. Fortin detected a cephalhsematoma as large as a pigeon’s egg on the left parietal before the termination of labour. Of fifty-three cephalhaematomata observed by Burchard there were discovered— Before labour 2 During, or shortly after do 24 The 2nd day after do 4 The 3rd 15 The 4th, 5th, 6th, 7th, 10th, and 11th, each one — 6 Day not noted 2 The presumed tardy appearance of the tu- mour may in some of these cases have de- pended on careless examination of the head, 1 SEtius, Libror. Medicinal, lib. vi. init. t. i. fob 99, cd. Venet. 1534. I). Valentin. Ephemcrid. Nat. Curios. Dec. II. Ann. II. Obs. 162, 1683. 2 A Practical Treatise on Wounds, vol. i. p. 322 ; Norwich, 1767. but this cannot have been the fact in one instance of co-existence of three cephalhiEma- tomata ; of these one was discovered on the right parietal immediately after birth, a se- cond appeared on the third, and the last on the fifth day. The most usual seat of this affection is the posterior and superior part of the right parie- tal ; but that it occurs on other parts of the skull, especially on the corresponding bone of the left side, the following table, in which the seat of sixty tumours (fifty-three, Burchard ; seven, Valleix) is noted, fully shows. Right parietal 34 times Left do 20 Occipital 3 Frontal 1 Parietals, but not accurately 1 ^ described J 60 It is highly probable, however, as M. Valleix observes, that in consequence of the tenacity with which the pericardium adheres to the sutures, effused blood cannot spread from one side of the cranium to the other, and hence that cephalhaematomata described as seated on both parietals, and unseparated by the sagittal suture, cannot have belonged to the variety now under consideration. Unger affirms he has seen a cephalhaematoma on the mastoid portion of the temporal bone. Though usually single, several of these tu- mours sometimes co-exist in the same skull, as the experience of Burchard and Valleix shows. In forty-four infants there was one swelling; in five there were two ; in two three were discovered. Similar facts have also been noticed by Michaelis, Paletta, Nae- gele, Zeller, Krans, Hiiter, and others. Their size is influenced by their exact seat, the mode of treatment to which they arc subjected, and the general health of the infant: they have been seen as small as nuts, and so large as to cover the entire parietal bone. Their form, too, according to the observations of Burchard, depends on their position. Those on the parietals affect an oval shape, they are confined to the upper part of that bone, and very rarely extend over the parietal protube- rance (Burchard says never, but the expe- rience of Valleix, among others, is at va- riance with this statement) ; in some instances the sort of sinus caused in the outline of the tumour by the absence of swelling in the latter position, gives the whole a reniform shape, or that of a cornucopia. The absence of effusion over the protuberance depends on the close adhesion of the pericranium in this situation. Tumours seated on the occipital and frontal bones are commonly rounded. The superjacent integuments are commonly said to present their natural colour : Feiler and Osiander1 maintain the contrary ; the latter even founded on the livid red tinge of the skin in this affection a ground of distinc- 1 Handb. der Entbindingskunst. bd. II. § 268. Tu- bingen, 1830.