851 CROTCHET. irritant unguents, lotions and baths, blisters, moxas, caustics, and cauteries may be each ranked in this class of remedial agents. In the majority of chronic cases where counter-irritation is indicated, it may be pro- duced near the diseased part; thus in scrofu- lous caries of the joints upon the side of the articulation, in neuralgic pains and partial paralysis along the course of the affected nerve, in tetanus along the tract of the spine, and in certain spasmodic conditions affecting the neck of the bladder, over the hypogastric or perineal regions. Counter-irritation of the skin, or subjacent cellular texture at the nape of the neck, has been found very efficacious against various disorders of the eyes ; and cauterization upon the mastoid region has been strongly recom- mended in the instance of scrofulous ophthal- mia. Mons. Gondret has collected several cases to attest the virtues of “ sincipital cau- terization,” by means of an ammoniucal pom- made, in certain forms of amaurosis and in incipient cataract. The practice of employing suppuratives to procure, what has been termed, “ a remote centre of fluxion,” has been often had recourse to after surgical operations, and sometimes, it is said, with advantage, especially in subjects of a gouty habit. As a general rule, violent counter-irritation is improper when there is much local heat, pain on pressure, and febrile disturbance ; as likewise in all situations where the integu- ments are thin and placed directly over bone, or where the circulation is languid, from the risk of giving rise to tedious ulceration or gangrene. The pharmaceutical counter-irritants com- monly resorted to, are the preparations of cantharides, mustard, mezereon, iodine, Tartar emetic ointment, oil of croton, oil of turpen- tine, strong acetic acid, and caustic ammonia. For further details connected with this sub- ject, the reader is referred to the respective articles—Blistering, Caustics, Cauteriza- tion, Issue, Moxa, and Seton. Bibliography.—Les Lois de la Revulsion, par J. C. Sabatier; Paris, 1832. Traite Theorique et Pra- tique dc la Derivation, par L. F. Gondret; Paris, 1837. Counter-Irritation, its Principles and Practice, by A. B. Granville, M.D. F.R.S.; London, 1838. COUNTER-OPENING, (Contra-incisio,) An incision made at a dependent part, to promote the exit of pus or a foreign body, when the opening, or wound already existing, is not favourably situated for the purpose. COU VRE-CHEF, the name of a Bandage. See that Article. COXALGIA, a name applied to disease of the hip-joint. Like the term White-Swelling, it should be entirely rejected, as too vague and indefinite for practical use. CREPITUS, (crepitatio, Lat. from crcpi- tare; diquelis, Fr.; Knirschen, Ger.) The crackling or noise produced by the rubbing of the fractured ends of bone against each other. A crackling noise, designated by the same term, may be also recognized in cases of gangrene, or in emphysema, and is produced by the air developed or effused into the cel- lular membrane. CROTCHET. Syn. crotchet, Fr. ; uncus, hamus, Lat.; Hdken, Ger. An instrument, with a shank strait or curved, and a hooked extremity; used to extract the head of the foetus, after its perforation. It is a very ancient instrument; for Hippo- crates, after recommending warm baths and anointing the pudenda with warm oils, in cases where the head of the child w'as retained above the brim of the pelvis; says, if such means fail, the head is to be opened with a knife, and extracted by means of certain in- struments : “ Caput gladiolo dissectum, in- strument quod confringat comminuito, et ossicula per ossium volsellam extrahito, aut unco attractorio ad claviculam uti firmiter ad- haereat immisso, non confestim, sed paulatim remittendo, et rursus adurgendo extrahito Celsus, in the twenty-ninth chapter of his seventh-book, speaks of it as a means of ex- tracting a dead child. ^Etius, in his tw'enty- third chapter, describes the method of lessen- ing and extracting the child. Albucasis, in his Methodus Medendi, describes two species of forceps armed with teeth on the insides of the blades, by meaps of which the head may be pressed and crushed ; and two species of crotchets. Other varieties of the crotchet were described by Fabricius d’Aquapendente, and indeed, by most of the older authors who discuss obstetrical subjects. Several of their instruments are found figured in the Arma- mentarium Chirurgicum of Scultetus. But it is evident that there wrere many imperfec- tions in the instruments of the ancients, their object apparently being more to make an opening, into which some kind of hook could be fixed, than with any definite idea of lessen- ing the bulk of the head. Thus, this opera- tion, which in the majority of cases in the present day is one of little difficulty, was sometimes so encompassed by obstacles, that even Mauriceau had been unable to complete an operation he had commenced. The French writers describe crotchets as being blunt or sharp ; but in this country, the term crotchet is never understood to imply the blunt hook.it always being applied to the sharp instrument. The ancient crotchets were mere bars of iron bent at one end, the hooked extremity being sharpened. A wooden han- dle was afterwards added. Levret wras the first to curve the stem, an improvement by wdiich so much power was gained, that it is now almost universally adopted. Levret also recommended two blades, one for each side of the head ; but as the application of such an 1 I)e morbis mulierwn ; lib. 1. sect. v. 3 I 2