BRONCHOTOMY. 522 is in the way of injury in some subjects. Mr. Burns has seen it mounting so high on the fore part of the trachea, as as to reach the lower border of the thyroid gland. He has also seen the right carotid artery crossing the trachea in an oblique direction. Scarpa has seen one instance, and Burns five, where both carotids originated from the arteria innomi- nata, and the left crossed the trachea pretty high in the neck. In one case the innorni- nata gave off a branch which ascended in front of the trachea, and divided into many twigs. Dr. Barclay has a preparation where the two inferior thyroid arteries arose from the right subclavian, one of the branches lying nearly in the line of the small vein which usually covers the trachea, and is generally divided in bronchotomy. Burns saw one case where the thyroid branch of the superior thyroid artery was much larger than a crow quill, and took such a course that it could not have escaped in laryngotomy. The thyroid veins occasionally unite and form a large vessel a little below the cricoid cartilage, which passes down beneath the fascia exactly in front of the trachea. A large vein is some- times found between the junction of the sterno-hyoidei muscles, and just beneath the fascia, which could hardly escape in laryngo- tomy. In some persons the lateral lobes of the thyroid gland lie much more in front of the trachea than in others, and Burns saw one case where the connecting slip (middle lobe) was so broad, that it descended almost to the sternum. It is also sometimes so thick, that if divided it would give rise to consi- derable haemorrhage. Fig. 159. The distance of the trachea from the sur- face also varies greatly in different subjects. It is generally deep in children, owing to the amount of fat in the vicinity, and in corpulent adults from the same cause. In three cases recorded by Mr. Lizars, the muscles were in- filtrated with pus, of course giving rise to a similar condition of parts. The emphysema, which is a frequent consequence of foreign bodies in the trachea, may make it two inches deep. In one of Mr. M'Namara’s cases, it was tw'o inches and a half below the surface. Mr. Porter mentions an instance where a surgeon ! actually could not find the trachea. These varieties form no objection to the operation, but they should make the surgeon very careful with his knife, as there is no means of knowing the exact arrangement of the vessels, &c. before the integuments are divided. The surgeon then having determined to perform tracheotomy, and every preparation being made for the safety and comfort of the patient the circumstances of the case will per- mit, he should be laid on a bed or sofa, or seated in a chair—in either case his head being thrown back to make the part tense. He should be so situated that the light may be thrown on the parts, the operator standing at the head of the patient. An incision should then be commenced, with a small scalpel, a little above the top of the ster- num, and carried upwards to a level with the cricoid cartilage, dividing the integu- ments and superficial fascia exactly in the median line. The divided integuments are then to be drawn aside with bent probes ; and it must be carefully seen that this is done equally on both sides, that the bottom of the wound may still correspond with the median line. An accurate examination should then be made for any stray vessel; if such exist it must be depressed, and any fatty matter divided. The knife should now be dispensed with as much as possible, but the deep fascia must be divided over the sterno-hyoid mus- cles, and their attachments separated with its handle or point. Another examination should be made, any arteries or veins should be pushed downwards, and if the middle lobe of the thyroid gland be large, it must be pushed upwards. A fascia is then seen lying on front of the trachea, part of which must be seized with the forceps, and removed with the knife : for as the trachea moves behind this fascia, it is plain that if the trachea be opened at the same stroke with the fascia, the aper- ture in the one will not correspond to that in the other. Hence an obstruction to the air would still remain, and the introduction of a canula be also impeded. Fig. 160. If the case admit of delay, it is better to wait till all haemorrhage has ceased. The patient is then desired to swallow his saliva. By this action the larynx is drawn upwards,