ANASTOMOSIS. 190 blood, in others to prevent an undue supply to the organ, when from the particular habits of the animal, the circulation of the blood is liable to interruption. The rete mirabile of Galen, which is met with in Graminivorous Animals, affords a beautiful example of a pro- vision in the mode of the distribution of arte- ries in the head to prevent any increase in the weight of the column of blood, when the animal is grazing, an effect which would be necessarily produced, did not the internal carotid arteries in that tribe of animals divide, become tortuous, again unite, and in that man- ner ward off all undue pressure from the in- crease of the weight of the column of blood which, were these vessels rectilineal, would be caused on the brain, when the head is inclined downwards. In Aquatic Birds, which are in the habit of diving in search of their food, the rete mirabile of Hovius affords another example of an artery subdividing and then reuniting for a similar purpose as the rete viirabile in the graminivorous animals. As a perfect state of the organs of vision must be more especially requisite in diving birds, when their body is placed perpendicular in gathering their food under water, the subdivision and reunion of the ophthalmic artery or the rete viirabile must prevent any injurious effects which would otherwise be caused by the increased weight of the column of blood in the eye, were the ophthalmic artery rectilineal. Retia mirabilia are also employed in the Ce- taceous Fishes to prevent an undue accumula- tion of arterial blood in the large vessels, and central organ of the circulation, when these animals are deep under water. John Hunter, in his account of the anatomy of the whale, describes a most extraordinary extent of rete particularly in the intercostal arteries of these animals; and the same beautiful structure may be seen in the porpoise. When the bodies of the cetacea are subjected to the enormous pressure to which they are constantly exposed from the immense depth of the waters in which they dwell, the circulation of the blood in the exterior of the body must be inter- rupted, and hence the blood will be driven into and congested within the thoracic cavity. To prevent any over-distension of the vital organs contained within the chest, the rete mirabile formed by the intercostal vessels, act- ing like a reservoir, will receive the surplus blood, and detain it until the animal rises from the deep, and approaches towards the surface of the water, which, by taking off the pressure of the superincumbent medium allows the circulation of the exterior part of the body to be renewed. While these forms of anastomosis are had recourse to, in the examples which I have given, in order to prevent an undue quantity of blood being sent to particular organs, I have also mentioned that a similar form of structure is found to be employed for the purpose of securing a proper quantity of blood to a part which, from the habits of some ani- mals, would be otherwise occasionally deprived of its requisite quantity of the sanguineous 3 fluid. The most remarkable illustration of this provision is met with in the limbs of the Sloth, the arteries both of the legs and arms of these animals being formed into a rete,—to which, however, Sir Anthony Carlisle, who first described this structure, seems to me to have given a very erroneous and unphilo- sophical explanation, attributing to this mode of distribution in the arteries, the remarkably slow movements of this tribe of animals. The singular and no less curious part of the natu- ral history of the sloth, is not, however, its extremely sluggish motions, which Sir A. Carlisle conceived could be explained from the peculiarity in the distribution of the brachial and femoral arteries, but the great muscularity which it possesses in grasping, or of suspending its own body for a most extraordi- nary length of time. “We are told of a sloth that, having fastened itself by its feet to a pole, remained in the situation during fifteen days, and without sustenance ! The strength in the legs and feet is so great, that having seized anything, it is almost impossible to oblige this animal to quit its hold. The same sloth grasped a dog that had been let loose upon it, and held it until it perished with hunger1!” The multiplied subdivisions of the brachial and femoral arteries of the sloth, and the sub- sequent reunion of these vessels into one trunk, must, therefore, be considered as a peculiarity of structure connected with the extraordinary power which these animais possess of clinging to branches of trees for a very prolonged time, and which they are impelled to do, in order to gather their food. Did the artery in the limb consist of one trunk, and was it in the usual situation, it is evident that the circulation would be disturbed, if not al- together interrupted, when the animal grasped with its limbs for any lengthened period ; but all such compression is completely averted by the subdivisions of the braehial artery being so numerous at the part of the limb where the pressure is made, that whenever any of the vessels are compressed, and the circulation through them impeded, the blood finds a ready channel in the other branches of the trunk. There is even a further provision to ward off the effects of pressure on the brachial arteries of this animal, and which is so well known in the feline tribe,—the artery passing through a foramen on the inner condyle of the hu- merus ; which may, indeed, be considered as an additional proof of the office which is re- quired of the arterial plexus of the artery in the limbs. The anastomosis of arteries have consider- able influence in modifying the velocity of the current of the blood in the inosculating branches. This must take place in a remark- able manner in the basilar artery, where the two opposite currents in the vertebral and carotids meet one another; and also in the coronary arteries of the different organs as wrell as in the inosculations of the mesenteric vessels, and, indeed, of the innumerable arte- ' Bewick’s Natural History.