AMPUTATION. 173 between these two bones with a double ob- liquity, first downwards and outwards, then upwards and outwards, and terminating against the side of the head of the second metatarsal, about four lines lower than its junction with the second cuneiform. To this extent it as- cends directly backwards, between the side of the first cuneiform, and that of the head of the second metatarsal; it then proceeds transversely between the second cuneiform and second metatarsal, till it meets the third cu- neiform, along the side of which, to the ex- tent of two lines or a little better, it runs again directly forwards, with an inclination outwards. This encroachment of the second metatarsal upon the second cuneiform, form- ing a sort of mortice, is compensated for by a similar encroachment, in an inverse direction, of the third cuneiform upon the third meta- tarsal. The line then passes from the outside of the head of the second metatarsal, obliquely, between the third cuneiform and third metatar- sal, and impinges upon the side of the head of the fourth metatarsal, and runs again directly backwards, between it and the outside of the third cuneiform ; from this point it runs be- tween the cuboid and the fourth and fifth metatarsals in a curve outwards, and obliquely backwards, and terminates behind the tuber- cle of the latter bone. Anomalies are also sometimes observed in the course of the articular interline; the bones may be more deeply morticed into each other, or, on the contrary, the mortices may be so shallow as to render the articular interline nearly straight. In this case there would be a corresponding facility in the operation. The tubercle of the fifth metatarsal has been known to be prolonged so far backwards as to join the side of the os calcis ; sometimes the arti- cular surfaces are ankylosed ; and it should not be forgotten that the heads of the meta- tarsal bones, and the tarsal bones are not ossi- fied to such a degree as to render section with a knife impracticable in young subjects up to the thirteenth or fourteenth year. The liga- ments on the dorsal surface are short fibrous bands ; the plantar ones are much thicker and stronger, and fill up the spaces between the bones ; the interosseous are very powerful, and on that account are the most embarrass- ing to the operator. In order to be prepared for the difficulties of this operation, the sur- geon should be ready to use the saw, when the point of his bistouri is insufficient to effect the disarticulation. Hey, in a case in which he operated in 1799, sawed off one-half of the large cuneiform bone ; the head of the se- cond metatarsal, if it was too firmly locked between the three cuneiform bones, might be left in the stump, by sawing it across in a line from the articulation of the first to that of the third metatarsal. Lufranc's method.—The knife or bistouri should be slender and have a solid back. If the surgeon is ambidextrous he will perform the operation with the right hand on the right foot, and with his left if the disease be of the 12 left foot. If he uses the right only, he com- mences his incision, on the first or on the fifth metatarsal, according to the foot on which he has to operate. The patient is placed on a table or bed, in a sitting or reclining posture, the leg half-bent, and projecting be- yond the edge of the bed. An assistant sup- ports it, and, at the same time, keeps it turned inwards ; another compresses the anterior and posterior tibial arteries, the former on the in- step, the latter behind the internal malleole, while he also draws back the skin on the back of the foot. The surgeon, guided by the in- dications already given, ascertains the two terminations, external and internal, of the line of the articulations, and holding the foot in the palm of his hand, the thumb and index finger supporting the fifth metatarsal, if it be the left, the first if it be the right, he makes a semilunar incision, convex towards the toes, extending across the back of the foot, com- mencing and terminating at the two extremi- ties of the articular interline. At this stroke, the integuments and cellular tissue alone are divided ; these being retracted, the extensor tendons and other soft parts are divided by a second transverse incision, corresponding to the line of the articulations. The point of the knife is now employed in opening the joints, beginning behind the tubercle of the fifth metatarsal; after separating the fourth and fifth from the cuboid, the knife is stopped by the side of the third cuneiform ; carrying the point a little forwards, it passes between the cuneiform and third metatarsal, and is again stopped by the side of the head of the second metatarsal. He then turns to the in- side of the foot, and still using the point only, he separates the large cuneiform from the first metatarsal, until stopped by the head of the second metatarsal. The head of this bone, locked in between the three cuneiforms by strong ligaments, will hold firm un- til these are divi- ded. The back of the knife is then inclined towards the toes, the edge towards the leg, and the point is passed between the first cunei- form and second metatarsal, until it reaches the depth of the arti- culation ; the handle is then raised to the per- pendicular, and the internal inter- osseous ligament is divided. Fig. 39. Lisfranc's partial amputation of the foot, in the articulations of the heads of the metatarsals