CIRSOPHTH ALMI A. 780 of Cinchonia and of Quinia. The usual dose of the powder is half a drachm, which may be frequently repeated. It was for- merly given in much larger doses ; Cullen gave as much as four drachms at a dose, when he wished the medicine to have a powerful effect; but the bulk of the dose alone was sufficient to nauseate. According to the opi- nion of Dr. A. T. Thomson, the best vehicle for administering it is milk, which effectually covers the flavour of the bark, if the dose be swallowed the instant it is mixed with the milk. It may also be administered in wine, in any spirituous liquor, or, if it excites nau- sea, combined with an aromatic. The cold infusion is the least powerful of the prepa- rations of bark, but the most grateful. The decoction contains much more of the active matter, and is the preparation generally used when the powder is rejected ; its dose is from one to three or four ounces. The spirituous tincture, though containing still more of the bark, cannot be extensively used on account of the menstruum ; but is prin- cipally employed in small doses of two or three drachms, as a stomachic. The extract is a preparation of considerable power, when properly prepared, and is adapted to those cases where the remedy requires to be conti- nued for some time. It is given in the form of pill in doses of from five to fifteen grains. Bark is also occasionally prescribed in the form of enema ; one scruple of the extract, or two drachms of the powder, being diffused in four ounces of starch mucilage. '1 he de- coction is sometimes applied as a fomentation to ulcers. The remedial effects of the barks depend on their alkaloids; their other principles exert cither no energy, or a secondary influ- ence merely. For instance, the kinic acid exerts a secondary influence by increasing the solubility of the Cinchonia and Quinia1. See Cinchonine. CINCHONINE, Cinchonia, so called be- cause it is obtained from Cinchona bark. Cinchonine is the salifiable base, or alkali, dis- covered in the Cinchona Condiminaca, or pale bark, by Pelletier and Caventou. Quinine being that which is found in the yellow bark, or Cinchona Cordifolia. The sulphate of Cin- chonine, which is readily formed by the direct union of sulphuric acid and pure Cinchonia, has been little used, owing to the superior properties of the Sulphate of Quinine. The febrifuge virtues of Cinchonine have, however, been considered by some writers as very great. The solutions of both these salts are decom- posed and precipitated by the infusion of galls, and all vegetable infusions containing gallic acid. The great advantage to be de- rived from substituting these alkaloids for the bark itself, is, that all the properties of the 1 For much valuable information on this subject, sec the Elements of Materia Medica and Therapeutics, by Dr. A. T. Thomson, and also Dr. Sigmond’s Lec- tures on Cinchona, published in the Lancet for 1037. 12 medicine are concentrated in a small com- pass ; a large quantity of inert matter is avoided; and in cases where the stomach is irritable, and large quantities of bark would be rejected, they might be taken in sufficient doses to arrest disease. The Sulphate of Quinine has, since its first introduction, been used largely as a sub- stitute for the other forms of bark. It has been also employed externally by the ender- mic method. (Thomas II. Burgess.') CINNABAR, ARTIFICIAL, Hydrar- gyri Sulphuretum Rubrum. An artificial com- pound of mercury and sulphur, called facti- tious Cinnabar, red Sulp'.uiret of Mercury, and Vermillion. It is employed in surgery for fumigating venereal ulcers, and obstinate cutaneous affections. The powder is placed upon a heated iron, and the vapour is con- ducted by means of a tube to the affected part. The following is the process according to which it is directed to be made :— Take of mercury two pounds, sulphur five ounces ; mix the mercury with the sulphur, melted over the fire, and as soon as the mass swells, remove the vessel from the fire, and cover it closely, to prevent the contents from igniting ; then rub the powder, and sublime. This salt of mercury is, however, considered inferior to the grey oxide as a remedial agent in venereal affections, and is now rarely em- ployed, except in some empirical nostrums, in which it forms the principal ingredient. CIRCUMCISION. Circumcisio : from Circumcido, to cut round ; Beschneidung, Ger. The operation by which sound or diseased prepuce is removed, by cutting instruments, so as to uncover, partially or completely, the glans penis. This operation is of very high antiquity. Amongst the Egyptians of old, and the Mahometans of the present day, it is resorted to as a prophylactic against the mis- chiefs arising in warm climates from the secre- tions rendered impure and irritating by being retained between the prepuce and glands. Amongst the Jews it was adopted as a reli- gious characteristic. Surgically, circumcision is indicated—1st. When the opening of the prepuce is so small, as is sometimes observed in children, that the flow of the urine is obstructed, and the pre- puce itself is swelled out in the form of a bag. In such a case, circumcision is preferable to simple slitting of the foreskin, as the divided parts seldom retract sufficiently. 2d. When the tissue of the prepuce has been transformed into hard knotty masses, which press and con- fine the glans so as to i mder erection and coition extremely painful. 3d. In phymosis, whether congenital or accidental. 4th. In scirrhous enlargement of the glans penis itself, when the prepuce is removed in order to ascertain its condition ; and, 5th. When the glans and prepuce have become enlarged and indurated from previous inflammation.