274 FRACTURE. of bad open fracture of the femur, with laceration of the synovial capsule of the knee-joint, which was brought in this manner, a distance of twenty miles, to the Richmond hospital. In the event of his having an opportunity of superintending this part of the treatment, the surgeon should have his mind made up as to the expedients to be had recourse to, as substitutes for the proper apparatus of splints, &e. for securing the fragments, which apparatus he would, of course, not have at hand. The fracture of a large bone, or one in- volving mischief or danger to important or- gans, should hardly be left for a moment to its own course, or to the interference of incom- petent persons. Fractures affecting the safety of the brain, or any viscus of the trunk, all require peculiar modes of management from the instant that the injury is received. For the sake of explaining generally the kind of care which is requisite, I select a common and severe case ; others will be treated of in their proper places. We shall suppose the surgeon to be on the spot, where a gentleman, in hunting, is thrown from his horse, and has the thigh-bone frac- tured by a stroke from his hoof; or where a coach is upset, and a passenger meets with a similar injury, far from any place where he can remain until the effects of the ac- cident are repaired. In what manner is the surgeon to proceed ? Having ascertained the existence of the fracture, and having got three or four assistants, he should cut off the boot, and cut or rip the outer seam of the breeches on the side of the injury, so as completely to expose the thigh. He will then give the sound limb in charge to one assistant, and the leg of the other to a second, while he himself, grasping the thigh firmly, if possible, above and below the frac- ture, keeps the fragments during the transport of the patient as motionless with regard to one another as he can. The fewer assistants he employs, if they are not overburthened, the better. If, therefore, the patient is not very heavy, and the third assistant is strong, he may commit the charge of carrying the trunk to him alone. Let him direct this assistant, turning his face towards the feet of the patient, and having his right arm next him, to take hold of the patient’s chest imme- diately below the axillae, if possible clasping his hands under the spine, while the patient, with or without the aid of a handkerchief passed over the opposite shoulder of the assistant, helps to support his own body by clinging round the neck of the assistant. I think it of some importance to make these arrangements with a view to carry the patient feet foremost, that he may see the way he is going. He will thus, in the state of nervous alarm in which he is, be less liable to invo- luntary muscular efforts, which are always pro- ductive of mischief, as, not being anticipated by the surgeon, he cannot be prepared to counteract them. The patient is now to be conveyed, with the greatest possible gentle- ness and concert of movement on the part of the surgeon and his assistants, to the nearest house, where he may be placed on a bed till preparations are made for carrying him to his destination with as much ease and safety to him as the case admits of. Before moving, the surgeon should exhort the patient to make no exertion, except for the support of his body, but to leave himself quite passive in the hands of the surgeon and assistants. The next problem the surgeon has to deal with is to procure substitutes for cushions, splints, and bandages, to secure the fractured limb. Let him provide himself with ten or twelve willow, hazel, or other straight rods, about as thick as the little finger, and long enough to run from the great trochanter to the foot. Let each of these be bedded neatly in a small quantity of unbroken straw, and bound with twine. Three of these bound to one another side by side, in three or four places, will form an extempore splint of the length of the limb, and capable of adapting itself to its form. Three or four splints of this kind may be constructed. Cushions for these are next to be made of old linen, or any other soft materials the surgeon can lay his hands on. If tow is to be had, it w ill be of great use in filling up vacant spaces ; if not, any soft material that can be got, must be substituted. A many-tailed bandage (see Bandage) is now to be placed on the splint intended for the back of the limb, and a long single-headed roller, or tape, or cord, is to be prepared, to fix the splints when applied. It w’ill be perceived, that it is my opinion that the limb should be secured in the ex- tended position. This is not the precept usually given in directing the manner of con- veying the patient under these circumstances, but 1 am persuaded it is the best. The ex- tent of continuous plane on which the limb rests, when it is extended, makes it more difficult to disturb it, than when it lies on a doubly inclined plane ; and the straight posi- tion affords facilities for obstructing the lateral movements of the limb, by pillows or other- wise, such as do not exist in the semiflexed position. The surgeon is now to reduce the fracture carefully. I shall not here enter into any particulars respecting this operation, which will be minutely considered by and by, but shall suppose it done. Next, while the surgeon preserves the reduction with his own hands, he and one assistant raise the whole limb, so as to permit a second to slip the splint, covered with its cushion and the many-tailed bandage, fairly underneath it. The limb is then to be let gently down on the splint, an assistant sup- porting it, w'hile the surgeon applies the pieces of the many-tailed bandage under the splint ; five or six strong tapes or cords should be laid across at regular intervals, for the pur- pose of binding the splints on the limb when these have been placed in their proper situa-