CALCULUS. 579 quantity of lithic acid formed by the kidney i is to diminish the semifebrile or hypersthenic ; state of the system with which it is so inti- mately connected, by abstracting largely from the amount of nutritious and stimulating food ; consumed. The patient must be put upon an l antiphlogistic regimen, as it is termed ; his diet i must be strictly regulated ; animal food in very moderate quantity must be allowed but once a day ; a single glass of sound wine, where the ! party affected habitually uses wine, largely di- luted with water, must be substituted for the | usual dose of generous Sherry or Madeira and old Port; in a word, from having lived luxu- riously, he who is attacked with gravel must begin to live abstemiously first, and tempe- i rately ever afterwards. The most powerful direct medicinal means 1 we possess of checking the formation of lithic 1 acid is the exhibition of purgative medicines. And here the class of purgatives which expe- I rience has shown to be peculiarly adapted to inflammatory complaints will be found to exert the most beneficial influence. A dose of ca- lomel and antimonial powder ought to be pre- scribed at night, and the common senna draught with soda tartarizata early in the morning, either every day or every other day according to circumstances at first, and regu- larly once if not twice a week for some time to come afterwards. The usual saline mixture, containing the citrate of potash or soda, with small doses of the tartrate of antimony and ipecacuanha, is also a very usefid medicine. II.—To increase the powers of the mine to hold in solution the lithic acid elaborated.—The means most obviously within our reach of ac- complishing this indication, is to add to the quantity of the solvent menstruum, and this end is readily effected by the free use of di- luents. Let the patient, therefore, who is at- tacked with lithic gravel, whilst he eats less, drink considerably more than usual of any of the mild diluents so commonly prescribed to patients labouring under febrile and inflam- matory complaints, such as toast-water, barley- water, rice-water, decoction of linseed, quince- seed, &c. M. Magendie has warned us against the use of diluents taken warm, as they then tend to pass off by the skin, and the urine is left more than usually concentrated. This caution is probably given on purely specula- tive grounds. On the contrary, to maintain a perspirable state of the skin is a great ele- ment in the successful treatment of calculous disorders generally. The urine is not dimi- nished in quantity under the use of diluents taken of a temperature calculated to excite gentle diaphoresis nearly in the ratio in which its colour is deepened ; and the researches of Dr. Duvernoy, of Stuttgardt, already referred to, would lead to the conclusion that this state of urine was that precisely which it should be our endeavour to create, he having shown that the colouring principle of the urine was the element upon which the solubility of the lithic acid and super-lithate of ammonia mainly de- pends. Within the tropics, where the human skin is an open sponge, calculus is a disease almost unknown. III.—To increase the solubility of the lithic acid.—The very sparing solubility of the acid has been already noticed. And the accom- plishment of this indication must be attempted in a great measure through the agency of the first and second,—we must use means to se- cure that as little lithic acid as possible be elaborated, and furnish that which is formed with such a quantity of its natural solvent and watery menstruum as shall be adequate to hold it fluid. Happily we can do more than this ; we can guard against the decomposition and consequent annihilation of the proper office of the odorous and colouring matter of the urine —the urodrncchrome, as it might be called, which in the generality of cases happens through the agency of some free acid in the urine, be this the natural lactic or phosphoric acid, or an adventitious acid such as the nitric, and perhaps the hydrochloric. This import- ant object is to be obtained by neutralizing any free acid which the urine may contain ; and farther, by presenting the lithic acid with a base, by combining with which it may become more soluble than it is when free. The alka- lis and alkaline earths fortunately accomplish both of these points in the most satisfactory manner. The alkalis especially are among the number of substances which find their way readily into the urine, and when used with discretion they are nowise prejudicial to the general health. It is now upon the eve of a century since the Parliament of England purchased for a considerable sum of money from Mrs. Joanna Stephens her secret remedy for gravel and stone. This in the first instance consisted of calcined egg-shells, i.c. lime ; and afterwards of this substance in combination with soap ; in other words, a mixture of carbonate and hydrate of calcium and of margarate of soda, which last from its facility of decomposition may be viewed as equivalent to a compound of grease and the mineral alkali. This medi- cine long enjoyed an extensive and merited celebrity ; many men distinguished in their day bore testimony to its good effects, and its active ingredients are still those upon which we place considerable dependence in the treatment of calculous complaints. The lime- water and bicarbonate of soda which we now so commonly and often so successfully pre- scribe are nothing more than the calcined egg- shells and Spanish-soap of this so called specific in another shape ; whilst they are not less efficient in their operation, however, they are much more elegant as medicines, and far less offensive to the stomach. Among the first cases recorded of the sys- tematic treatment of gravel by the simple alkaline carbonate is that of the celebrated anatomist Mascagni, the particulars of which he has himself recorded in a very interesting memoir'. Mascagni suffered habitually from 1 Published in the 9th vol. of the Mem. della So- cicta Italiana. P r 2