ANEURISM. 206 coagulated, continues to be discharged. The cellular issue being now infiltrated with blood, inflames and sloughs, the discharged clots assume a bright red colour, and at length, fluid arterial blood is poured out. These changes make their appearance with a rapidity proportioned to the facility with which the blood escapes from the ruptured sac, and as the opening in the sac is generally small, the blood escapes slowly, making its way through the cellular membrane to a dis- tance more or less remote, and forming a tu- mour, the true nature of which it is often not easy to detect; or at a more advanced period, the sac which has been formed of the cellular coat of the diseased vessel now gives way, and the boundary or sac of the aneurism is formed of the cellular sheath of the artery and the surrounding soft parts, all of which have adhered together and become consolidated, and it is only when the sac has burst before such consolidation of the sheath and adjoining soft parts have become suffi- ciently strong to resist the force of the blood’s current, that the fluid blood is diffused amongst the surrounding parts. Aneurisms produce effects which vary ac- cording to the nature of the textures sur- rounding them, and the regions of the body in which they occur. The pressure of the tumour on particular nerves creates pain along the course of those nerves, gives rise to cede- matous swelling by compressing the veins and lymphatics, causes the skin to inflame, and when of long continuance destroys even the contiguous bones. Aneurisms, when situated near any of the great cavities, sometimes extend into those cavities, and prove fatal by the derange- ment which the tumour, from its bulk, pro- duces on some vital organ. An aneurism may likewise destroy life by the incessant pain, or by the long duration of the disease producing a gradual extinction of the vital functions. Aneurisms, however, do not always proceed to a fatal termination ; and it happens by no means unfrequently that processes are set up by Nature which effect a spontaneous cure of the disease. The tumour ceases to pulsate, diminishes in size, becomes harder, and finally disappears altogether, or is reduced to a more or less firm and solid mass. The spontaneous cure of an aneurism may take place in no less than Jive different manners, and the principle or the processes which Na- ture employs for the cure of the disease, is in all of them the same, the parietes of the sac being strengthened by, or the whole cavity filled with, a fibrinous concretion. I. The first and the most common of these spontaneous processes of cure is effected by the aneurismal sac being so filled up and strengthened with concrete fibrine, that all danger of a rupture of the sac is removed, whilst at the same time the original canal of the vessel remains pervious, and carries on the circulation of the blood. 2. In the second process by which an aneurism may undergo a spontaneous cure, the sac is not only filled with concreted fibrine, but the canal of the artery is obliterated. 3. An aneurism may likewise undergo a spontaneous process of cure by the tumour acquiring such a size and position, that by its pressure on the trunk of the artery, either on the cardiac or on the capillary side of the tumour, the sides of the artery are brought into contact and adhere. (Home.) 4. An aneurism may also be cured sponta- neously by a process of suppuration in the sac, both the sac and the artery above and below the tumour having previously been filled with coagulum. In such a case, the integuments inflame and adhere to the sac and then ulcer- ate, and those portions of the coagulum which cannot be removed by the process of absorp- tion, are ejected through the ulcerated open- ing, allowing the cavity of the sac to be filled up and obliterated by the process of granu- lation. 5. The fifth mode of spontaneous cure has been observed from the bursting of the tumour underneath the common integument, and the artery becoming obliterated by the pressure of the effused blood. (A. Cooper.) I have observed that the principle on which an aneurismal tumour can be cured by any of these spontaneous processes is the same—all of them depending on the effusion of concreted fibrine within the sac, or both within the sac and a portion of the artery adjacent to the aneurism ; and which fibrinous concretion is caused, or is permitted to be formed, when- ever the circulation of the blood within the sac becomes preternaturally languid. On the circulation of the blood in the sac, or in a portion of the artery as well as in the sac, being thus prevented by a fibrinous concre- tion, another process is afterwards instituted ; the former being only to answer a temporary purpose. The concreted fibrine is ultimately absorbed, and the aneurismal sac, or both the aneurismal sac and the artery from whence it originates, gradually contract,—the sac be- coming a small fleshy tumour, and the artery an impervious tube. Petit describes the re- mains of an aneurism of the carotid artery, which had originally been the size of an apple, and after having undergone a spontaneous cure, was found, after death, not larger than an olive. Whenever the spontaneous cure of an aneu- rism has been effected by any of the aforesaid ways, it sometimes happens, even after so desirable a change has taken place that the bulk of the tumour alone, in certain situations has continued to cause alarming symptoms, and even to prove fatal. Thus aneurisms at the arch of the aorta, in the arteria innomi- nata, and the roots of the carotids, I have repeatedly seen cause death, even where they had not acquired a very large size, or where the sac was filled with fibrine and completely consolidated.