218 FISTULA, INTESTINAL. cussion ; and neither side of the lumbar region was more arched or more prominent than the other. The operation was determined upon, and preparation for its performance was made, but the patient withheld her consent. On the second of July a consultation was held, at which MM. Majendie, Breschet, and Chomel were present. The patient was very feeble ; her pulse small and frequent; breath fetid ; and the skin exhaled a stercoraceous odour. There was frequent bilious vomit- ing, severe epigastric pains, and the abdo- men was extremely tense. The propriety of operating immediately was agreed upon, but some difference of opinion existed respecting the point at which the artificial anus should be made. Some preferred the left lumbar colon, on the supposition that this part was distended, and that the obstruction was situ- ated below it, since the patient could not retain even a single clyster. Others main- taining that this diagnostic sign was insufficient and deceptive, since it occurred in some per- sons in perfect health, recommended that the right lumbar colon should be opened. In the latter opinion, M. Amussat concurred ; and he was inclined to cut down upon the ascend- ing colon, and to open it if he found it to be distended. If otherwise, he determined to cut down in front of the caecum, and, having found the termination of the ilium, to search for the seat of obstruction. On the third of July, at 6 a.m. the operation was performed in the presence of MM. Breschet, Deguise, Boyer, and others. The patient was placed on a mattress, the abdomen resting on a pillow, so that the lum- bar region was prominent; when it was found that each side presented the same volume, and yielded the same sound on percussion. An incision, nearly four inches long, was made transversely in the right lumbar region, midway between the crest of the ilium and the lowest false rib, commencing at the com- mon origin of the sacro-lumbalis and longissi- mus dorsi muscles. The edges of these mus- cles being divided, and also the adjacent tissues, the operator soon arrived at the quadratus lumborum, which was easily recog- nized by its very oblique direction down- wards and outwards. He cut the edge of this muscle, and after dividing the anterior layer of the posterior transverse aponeurosis, per- ceived the cellular and adipose mass covering the kidney. He then divided the fat verti- cally, and examining posteriorily, felt a dis- tended intestine. This was the lumbar colon, uncovered by peritoneum. It was recognized by the resistance of its walls, and by its mus- cular fibres, which are more developed than those of the small intestine. This important part of the operation being accomplished, M. Amussat fixed the intestine by a thread passed through its coats, and then opened it with a small trochar ; a quan- tity of air and a very little feculent matter issued from the canula ; but, on withdrawing it, so much air was infiltrated into the sur- rounding cellular tissue, that M. Amussat had to cut it away to leave the colon ex- posed. The intestine was now freely opened in a vertical direction, with a blunt-pointed bistoury, and the edges of the aperture were held separate by three torsion forceps. With the index finger introduced into the intestine, he broke up a mass of indu- rated feces, after which a considerable quan- tity escaped, mixed with gooseberry seeds and cherry stones. The evacuation was faci- litated by injections of tepid water into the upper and lower portion of the opened colon. The aperture in the intestine was fixed as near as possible to the inferior angle of the wound, by means of five points of interrupted suture, care being taken to evert the mucous membrane ; and the posterior angle of the wound was united by a point of twisted suture. The patient was now placed in bed, sup- ported on the right side to facilitate the issue of the feces; the artificial anus was covered with a large poultice. In the evening she was cooler and felt relieved ; the abdomen was soft and free from pain on pressure; air and feces fre- quently issued from the artificial anus ; the pulse had become strong but not frequent. The next day she had passed a good night, and her pulse ranged from seventy to eighty. The case afterwards proceeded favourably. On the fifth day after the operation, all the sutures were detached ; and on the thirtieth, the patient is reported as being in a most satisfactory state. In order to facilitate the comparison of these cases, with those in which the iliac operation had been performed, we shall arrange their leading peculiarities in the tabular form '. 1 Since this article was sent to press, M. Amussat has communicated to the Academy of Medicine three additional cases in which he has performed the opera- tion for establishing an artificial anus. “ In the first case the patient laboured under cancer of the omentum, which obstructed the sigmoid flexure of the colon, and caused complete retention of the feces. M. Amussat exposed the ascending colon pos- teriorly, fixed it to the integuments, and made an inci- sion into it. Fecal matter was discharged in abund- ance, and sometime afterwards several evacuations by the anus took place. “ The second patient, 60 years of age, had likewise, and from the same cause, an obstruction of the bowels, which lasted forty-five or fifty days. The cancer occu- pied the upper part of the rectum. The descending colon was opened, and a large quantity of fecal matter was evacuated. No inflammatory reaction took place, but the woman died in ten days from the effects of the cancerous disease. “ In the third case, constipation suddenly came on, in a patient forty-seven years of age, who had pre- viously enjoyed the best health ; there was no means of judging whether the obstacle was seated in the small or in the large intestines. Hence, M. Amussat was compelled to follow Littre's method, and opened the caecum anteriorly. The patient, who was extremely exhausted and weak previously to the operation, died twenty-four hours afterwards. On examining the body after death, the obstacle was found to exist at the