FRACTURE. 37G Fig. 330. Fig. 330. Oblique fracture of the shaft 0/ the femur a little below the trochanters. The under portion is drawn unusually upwards and forwards, while the upper fragment is directed out- wards. The new ossifica- tion is abundant, but prin- cipally beticeen the tivo portions. The above is the representation of an un- common degree of defor- mity, which almost pro- claims of itself the deside- rata of its treatment. “ Application.—The patient is to be placed upon the mattress with the perineum opposite the hole in the middle plane of the apparatus ; and the lower limbs, in in, over the double inclined, plane. The foot of the injured limb should then be fixed by means of a band, n, and a pad placed just below the external malleo- lus, to the foot-board, k, which will keep it upright, with the heel close doicn against the mattress. After which the middle plane, d, should be adapted to the length of the sound thigh, by the two portions of board of which it is composed, being moved upon each other so as to elongate or shorten it as it mat/ be found ne- cessary ; it is fixed by the screw, g. The pelvis and limb may be thus kept perfectly i/uiet, and motion of the fragments totally prevented ; continued extension may be made in the line of the thigh-bone and. retrac- tion of the limb prevented, while neither inversion nor Fig. 331. Mr. Amesbury's Apparatus for fractures of the upper part of the femur. “ Composition. Three pieces of board are to be procured of sufficient length to rest upon the sides of the bedstead, b, by which the apparatus itself is to be raised from the floor. One of these, c c, should be placed near the lower end of the frame, a a; the second near the lower end of the upper plane, e ; and the third near the upper end of the frame. The middle and lower planes, d d, being raised to the proper degree of elevation, rest upon the rack, i, of the frame, and are covered by a hair mattress, which should extend the whole length also of the plane, e, as they lie connected toge ther. The mattress should be provided with a hole at the part which corresponds to the middle plane of the apparatus. A blanket and sheet, ivith a hole in each, to correspond to the hole in the mattress, are to be applied over this, and stitched round the edge, III, and round the hole in the centre, placed op- posite the trap-door, f in order to prevent them from getting into folds and in- commoding the patient. eversion of the foot can possibly take place. W hen the neck of the thigh-bone is fractured, there are two in- dications to be fulfilled, namely, to /rrevent the upper end of the femur from dropping from its natural line, and to keep the fractured surfaces in perfect contact. The first is done by property placing a small pad under the trochanter major, between it and the mattress; and the second by a padded splint, q, r, placed, along the outer side of the thigh, and secured to the pelvis and lower part of the thigh by two simple bands, t, s, which should be tied round the pelvis, so as to exert a sufficient degree of pressure to keep the fractured surfaces in contact. In fractures of tlic trochanter major above the neck, the limb should be kept in a position to allow of the great toe being in a line with the anterior superior spinous process of the ilium. Unless, in these cases, there is fracture also Fig. 331.