229 FISTULA, URINARY. of a membranous bag, containing merely a little urine and pus. When a calculus has been arrested in the ureter, the latter, becoming distended by the secretion of the kidney, has been known to adhere to, and form a communication with the cavity ol the colon, through which both the calculus and the urine have found a safe escape. In such a case, as long as the open- ing remains, the urine will be voided in part by the anus, and our art has no remedy for this inconvenience. The fistulous tracks from the ureters may also open in the lumbar or inguinal regions. The solutions of continuity in the urinary passages, which ultimately terminate in fistulae, may be produced by accidental or surgical wounds, or by pressure, or the retention of the urine itself from obstruction of its natural channel of exit, giving rise to the inflamma- tion, ulceration, and rupture of the neighbour- ingparts. Sometimes, too they result from ill- managed attempts to pass instruments. When the inflammation of gonorrhoea runs high, retention of urine may occur, and last for several days ; and thus an abscess is some- times formed, external to the urethra, which, progressing towards the surface on the one side, and bursting into the urethra on the other, lays the foundation of a fistula. When the fistula has originated in a reten- tion of the urine, the anormal passage may be formed in the bladder itself, or in the urethra. In either case, the mucous lining inflames from the distension caused by the urine, and ulcerates ; and the urine thus finding a pas- sage, insinuates itself gradually, or forces its way, by the efforts of the patient, into the surrounding regions, sometimes to such an extent as to fill the cellular membrane of the pelvis, perineum, scrotum, groin, hypogas- trium, buttocks, thighs, and even the loins, and to produce the most frightful ravages. Wherever the urine is extravasated.it excites inflammation, abscesses are formed, and the cellular tissue is extensively destroyed by sloughing. Sometimes, too, the integuments perish with the cellular tissue, so that the tes- ticles, corpora cavernosa, the penis, and peri- neum, are laid bare to a considerable extent. If the mischief occurs within the pelvis, or in an external situation, in aged persons, or those of shattered habit, the powers of life cannot be upheld for any time, and a fatal termination may be looked for almost with certainty. If the struggle be prolonged, and wine, bark, good nourishment and care, achieve a tri- umph over such formidable odds, the sloughs are cast off, and granulations sprout from the walls of the suppurating cavities, which are thus narrowed into sinuous irregular tracks, that either close altogether, or remain fistulous. When the extravasation takes place gradu- ally, these tracks are formed according as the urine insinuates itself through the cellular tissue, in its course towards the surface : in this case extensive suppuration is prevented, and the mischief is limited to the line in which the urine runs, its passage being traceable by the engorgement of the cellular tissue, which to the touch resembles a bulky cord. Some- times, too, the extravasation has the form of a tumour in the perineum, small and deep- seated at first, but gradually enlarging until it reaches the skin, when it fills up the whole perineum. While the tumour remains of small size, its contents may be forced by gentle pressure back into the urethra, along which they may be pressed, and at length voided, in part pus, and partly urine, from its orifice. The urinous tumour remains small and globular, so long as the fibrous sheath of the urethra resists the progress of the ulceration, a period which may vary from a few days to a few weeks; but this barrier once broken, its progress is rapid; the skin assumes a dusky red hue, and the fluctuation of fluid is discernible in the tumour, which should be at once freely opened, in order to prevent the extension of the extrava- sation. In some instances there is but one internal and one external opening ; in others, there are several internal, and but one external, or vice versa. The external opening, though small, is generally hard and callous, forming an ele- vated knot, or button, which the French term cul de pottle. When several exist, they give to the perineum an irregular surface, studded with ridges, or indurated lumps. The tracks themselves are subject to obstruction; and when this occurs, fresh inflammation arises, an abscess is formed, and another fistulous opening is added to those already existing, from which an offensive urinous ammoniac.al smell exhales. The anormal channel, which may have been formed at first by the obstruction of a calculus in the urethra, is liable also, at a subsequent period, to be obstructed in any part of its course by calculous matter accumulated there- in. The author of this article has had an oppor- tunity of treating several cases of this kind. It must not, however, be taken for granted, that urinous infiltration may not take place without any impediment existing in the ure- thra, to prevent the expulsion of the urine. In old men, or in persons whose constitutions have been deteriorated by excesses, a mucous discharge is sometimes observed to take place from the urethra, while a small tumour forms slowly, external to the urethra, and bursts. Urine then finds its way into this cavity, and the extravasation proceeds more or less rapidly, as the ulceration of the urethra is more or less extensive, and according to the quantity of urine diverted into this new channel. Bougies and catheters, when left for a length of time in the urethra, may also prove the exciting cause of these ulcerations. The practitioner should be careful not to confound urinary fistula with the fistulous tracks formed in the vicinity of the urinary- passages, but having no communication with them. These tracks, in this respect, are ana- logous to the incomplete fistula formed near