222 FISTULA, SALIVARY. the bowels. He next divided the perineum, so as to lay the vagina completely open to the anus ; the edges were then united b}' suture from the bottom, and a perfect cure was thus cbtained. The surgeon will find under the section of this article on Vesico-Vaginal Fistula, the de- tails of other methods which may be applica- ble in the treatment of this form of fistula. FISTULA, RECTO-VESICAL, may arise from the rectum being wounded in the operation of lithotomy—from gangrene in- volving the bladder and rectum—from the pro- gress of ulceration in cancer of the rectum or bladder, or from the action of any mechanical cause, such as a calculus, or end of a bougie, whereby ulceration and perforation of the recto-vesical wall is produced. The inconvenience and danger of the sym- ptoms arising from this affection, abstractedly from the cause in which it originates, depend greatly on the extent of the anormal communi- cation. When this is large, the contents of these organs, instead of proceeding by their natural routes, pass freely into each other, and give rise in each to such irritation as results from the contact with excrementitial matter for which they are not by nature fitted. The urine flowing into the rectum is the cause of frequent calls to evacuate the bowels, and ultimately of diarrhoea ; the feces finding their way into the bladder provoke by their pre- sence a distressing frequency of micturition ; while not only the diluted feces and intesti- nal gases, but even its harder elements are now and then voided by the urethra. Small pieces of bone have been known to be thus passed through this channel. Under such an accumulation of misery life itself is a burden, and seldom lasts long if the disorder cannot be remedied. But, on the other hand, when the channel of communication is narrow, pro- longed between the parietes of the rectum and bladder, and enters obliquely on either side, the inconvenience it gives rise to may be very trifling, amounting perhaps to no more than the passing of a few drops of urine when the bladder is distended or contracting. In such a case the evidence of the existence of a communication between the bladder and rec- tum rests on the discharge of urine from the rectal orifice. It may also be ascertained by the contact of a probe passed through the fis- tulous track, with a metallic catheter passed into the bladder. But this proof may fail us from the tortuosity of the fistulous track. In the treatment, regard must be had to the causes in which the fistula originated : when arising from cancerous ulceration any opera- tive proceeding would be worse than useless. Exploration should be made with a speculum ; the best is that which is open only on one side to the extent of one fourth of its circum- ference. When this instrument is introduced into the rectum, the opening turned towards the bladder allows the surgeon to see, or feel with his finger for the orifice of the fistula. When this is recognised, either by the flowing out of the urine, or by the hardness or eleva- tion that surrounds it, a curved probe will help to show the course by which it communicates with the bladder. When the aperture is from loss of substance, or an extensive wound, it is often sufficiently large and direct to allow of the surgeon’s passing his finger at once into the bladder. In these cases, however, when the consti- tution is healthy, and care is taken by the introduction of a catheter three or four times a-day to prevent as much as possible the urine from passing by the rectum, the entire cicatrization of the wound will be often effected without any great delay, or its dimen- sions will be so greatly reduced that no more than a few drops of urine will escape by it. Instances of this occur where the rectum is wounded in the operation of lithotomy, and in which the wound of the intestine often heals with as much rapidity as the rest. So fortunate a result undoubtedly depends much upon the general good condition of the patient, as nothing so effectually retards or prevents the cicatrization of the wound as a wast ing and falling off of the pi limpness of the surrounding parts. The emaciation of the patient is, in fact, in some cases a serious obstacle to the reunion of the parts. In the frequent exercise of their functions, the motions of both the organs involved con- stitutes another obstacle to union. The free- dom, however, with which modern surgeons now divide the sphincter of the anus, and the judicious use of the catheter; will obviate the inconvenience to a great extent; and although experience has not yet pronounced in favour of the complete division of the sphincter in such eases, it is not unreasonable to anticipate good effects from the adoption of the practice. The edges of the fistulous opening should at the same time be caute- rized with the nitrate of silver, either in a solid or liquid state, as may best suit the case, care being taken to prevent the extension of its action to neighbouring parts, either by the use of oil smeared on the cauterized parts, or by the injection of cold water upon them prior to the removal of the speculum. Cauterization, so often attended with good results, when employed alone, would in all probability be more likely to succeed com- pletely when the sphincter is previously divided. If there should be a disinclination to the practice, proper measures should not be neglected for keeping the rectum and colon free from an accumulation of fecal matter ; and for this purpose a mild regimen, with the occasional use of gentle laxatives, and the daily use of mild enemas, will be absolutely indispensable. The other circumstances that promote the general health, wholesome air, food, and repose, are also essential to success. FISTULAS, SALIVARY, occur in the situation of the parotid gland, in the course of its excretory duet, or the ducts of the other