368 FRACTURE. Smith, of fracture within the capsular liga- ment, one only had been shortened more than one inch; and in this instance the degree of shortening was an inch and a half, but the accident had happened some years previous to the measurement, and the neck of the bone had been absorbed. This is certainly an im- portant statement; tending to modify the ge- neral inference from that of Sir A. Cooper. The causes of the shortening, as before- mentioned, are the united influences of the muscles and the weight of the body; which are generally easily counteracted by a slight extension, but the deformity returns imme- diately such force is discontinued. Sir A. Cooper considered this feature as an evidence of the accidents, and remarked, that it conti- nues till the muscles acquire a fixed contrac- tion. After the shortening has been examined in the recumbent posture, the patient should be supported in the erect position, that it may be further observed how the heel and knee are situated, and how much influence the weight of the limb may have upon the con- traction of the muscles. The prominence of the trochanter major is much diminished w'hen the support and attach- ment of the neck of the bone to the shaft is destroyed by fracture ; the less resisted mus- cles inclining it upwards and backwards to- wards the crista of the ilium : it is, however, readily restored to its original level, by pres- sure in the opposite direction ; and the patient sometimes acquires a voluntary power over the limb whilst it is so reduced. A swelling at the upper and fore part of the thigh, more or less conspicuous as the limb is shortened, may also be observed. The kind and degree of revolution which the great trochanter communicates, when rotated under the hand, as compared with the like in the sound limb, is described as an evidence of the proximity or distance of the fracture from the head of the bone, since the trochanter may turn upon itself, or roll on a longer or shorter radius. All rotation inwards, how- ever, and abduction of the limb also, is parti- cularly painful ; because, says Sir A. Cooper, the fractured points rub against the capsule. Crepitus may be discovered in performing the rotatory motions, especially rotation in- wards, when the limb is not retracted, or when the fractured surfaces are on a level with each other. It is also often produced by flexing the limb upon the pelvis ; but as the limb is usually shortened, in the horizontal position, it is seldom observable without proportionate extension. As the severed head of the femur may be capable of following the motions of the shaft, merely from its remaining periosteal connexions, it may be necessary (for precise diagnosis), to fix the head, by pressing on it anteriorly ; or, to give a relatively quicker movement to the shaft (as in rotation), than can be readily communicated to the fragment in the acetabulum, in order to elicit crepitus. Eversion of the toes is a frequent, but not invariable accompaniment of these fractures. The practice of Pare, Petit, and Dupuytren, attest the occasional though extreme rarity of inversion. Sir A. Cooper has observed, that a period of three or four hours usually elapses before eversion is quite manifest; which he considers the result of the more fixed con- tractions of the muscles. The settled resist- ance to rotation inwards, he considers as a further proof of the contracted state of the muscles, although this may be in part owing to the projection of the neck from the shaft against the ilium. Dupuytren attributes both eversion and in- version, to the oblique inclination of the frag- ments ; and he expects the one or the other, according as the fractured portions respec- tively assume a backward or forward direction. Bichat was of opinion, that the weight of the foot might be the cause of the more general direction of the toes outwards ; and he object- ed to the imputed influence of the rotator and adductor muscles towards such effect, on the ground, that all these muscles, except the quadratus, were in a state of relaxation, from their attachments being approximated by the fracture 1; but the general influence of the muscles is to draw up the trochanter, and thus to operate against the relaxation of the ro- tators, and even augment their influence. The flexors of the hip are evertors ; and perhaps the most evident invertors are the two ischio- tibial muscles ', by which the heel is prevented turning too much inwards, when, the leg, being advanced and extended, might obstruct the other foot, which is next to be set forwards, as in running. To obtain an adequate explanation, how- ever, of the cause of inversion of the limb, the direction of the fracture, in reference to the attachments of the muscles, must be con- sidered. The inversion which attends fracture within the capsule, still remains to be fully accounted for, but the question to be resolved may be simply this; what causes prevent the usual effects of the rotators and gravity in these cases? The answer must depend on specific examinations of the parts injured. Inversion of the foot, arising from fracture of the neck of the femur, may be distinguish- ed from the somewhat similar appearance which takes place in dislocations upon the dorsum of the ilium, and into the sciatic notch, by regarding the degree of the deformity. In dislocation of the femur upon the dorsum of the ilium, the patient being erect, the great toe rests against the instep of the other foot ; in dislocation into the sciatic notch, the great toe is seen resting against the ball of the opposite great toe ; whilst in fracture of the neck of the femur, attended with this rare symptom, the toes are 1 It is essential, in progression, that the toes should turn outwards and not strike the opposite heel: and eversion is the position of muscular repose ; for exam- ple, the position ‘ stand at case.’ 10