EAR, AND HEARING, DISEASES OF. 48 Part the Second. The fundamental Organ of Hearing, Ear-bulb or Labyrinth. (a) Anatomy of the Labyrinth. In man and the higher animals the hard ex- ternal case of the ear-bulb is of bone, and is called the osseous labyrinth. The soft textures contained in its interior bear the name of mem- branous labyrinth. The interior of the osseous labyrinth, which we may with Bresehet call the labyrintkic cavity, is not completely filled by the membranous labyrinth ; a considerable space being occupied by a limpid watery fluid. The osseous labyrinth presents three com- partments, distinguished by the names of vesti- bule, semi-circular canals, and cochlea. The semi- circular canals do not communicate imme- diately with each other, but only mediately through the vestibule. The latter may be con- sidered the principal compartment of the labyrinth. The osseous labyrinth is contained in the substance of the petrous portion of the tem- poral bone, from which it is in the early pe- riods of life quite distinct. At that time the walls of the osseous labyrinth consist of a hard but brittle osseous substance, which is em- bedded as it were in the then less compact texture of the petrous bone. Afterwards the outside of the osseous labyrinth becomes en- corporated with the surrounding substance of the petrous bone, which has now become more dense. A trace, however, of the line of demarcation between the two structures still remains; and, from the microscopical observations of Pappenheim, it appears that the osseous labyrinth presents a peculiar system of bony canals. These circumstances showr that the osseous labyrinth though in the petrous bone is not of it, and explain how the osseous labyrinth is sometimes found entire, while the substance of the petrous bone around it has been destroyed by caries, a striking example of which is found in the fact above-mentioned, as observed by Dr. Burne, of the osseous labyrinth being dis- charged entire from the external ear! Of the compartments of the osseous laby- rinth, the vestibule lies in the middle, the semi-circular canals behind it, and the cochlea in front. (Fig. 198.) Fig. 198. The exterior of the osseous labyrinth of the left side, natural size, a. Oval or vest ibular fenestra; b. Round or cochlear fe- nestra ; c, External or ho- rizontal semicircular ca- nal; d, Superior or ante- rior vertical semicircular canal; e, Posterior or inferior vertical semicircular canal; f The turns of the cochlea. The vestibule is an irregularly shaped ca- vity, the diameter of which from above down- wards, as also from behind forwards, may be stated to be about one-fifth of an inch. The distance between its inner and outer wall is somewhat more than one-tenth of an inch. The inner wall of the vestibule corresponds to the bottom of the internal auditory meatus, and is pervaded at several places by groups of small canals for the passage of fibrils of the auditory nerve and of blood-vessels. In the outer wall of the vestibule there is the fenes- tra ovalis already described. The semicircular canals are three in num- ber. Describing more than half of an irregu- lar circle, they open at each of their extremi- ties into the vestibule ; hence, if it was not for the circumstance that two unite to form a common short canal, there would be in the ves- tibule six orifices of semicircular canals, instead of the five only which exist. The calibre of these canals is about one-twentieth of an inch in the direction from the concavity to the con- vexity of their curve ; in the opposite direc- tion they are somewhat compressed, so that a transverse section, instead of presenting a round orifice, presents an elliptical one. The semicircular canals are wider where they open into the vestibule, but especially so at one of their extremities, which presents a dilatation in the form of a bulb called ampulla or ampul- lary sinus. Two of the semicircular canals occupy a vertical position, and one of them at horizon- tal. Of the vertical, one is anterior and supe- rior, the other posterior and inferior. The horizontal is external. It is the inner extre- mity of the anterior and superior vertical semicircular canal and the upper extremity of the posterior and inferior vertical, which unite to form the common canal already alluded to. This common canal is about one-eighth of an inch long, and somewhat wider than either of the two which unite to form it. The cochlea forms the anterior part of the labyrinth. If we can figure to ourselves a tube tapering towards one extremity, where it ends in a cul-de-sac, and coiled, like the shell of a snail, round an axis or central pillar; and if we suppose this tube subdivided into two passages by a thin partition running throughout its length, and, of course, spirally round the axis, we shall have some conception of the cochlea. The tube of which the cochlea is composed, is about an inch and a half long, about one- tenth of an inch in diameter at its commence- ment, and about one-twentieth of an inch at its termination. It describes two turns and a half, and that in a directive from below up- wards—from left to right in the right ear, and from right to left in the left ear. The com- mencement of the first turn of the cochlea forms the eminence towards the cavity of the tympanum called the promontory. By the base of the tube, the cochlea is connected with the vestibule. The cul-de-sac at the apex forms a sort of vaulted roof called cupola. The axis or central pillar of the cochlea is nothing more than the internal walls of the tube of the cochlea, and the central space, filled with spongy bony matter, circumscribed