EMPYEMA. 109 of distinction. The history of the case, and the marked peculiarities of the heteromorphism of the side, are sufficiently characteristic of the dulness attending absorption with retraction. For the complete detail of the signs by which the two maladies may be distinguished at all their periods, we must refer the reader to treatises on phthisis. Pneumonic solidification.—When pneumonia is of the typhoid type, particularly described by Drs. Stokes and Hudson, the sudden esta- blishment of extensive dulness might lead the observer to confound the case with one of effusion, in which the fluid had not yet accu- mulated sufficiently to cause signs of displace- ment. The phenomena of voice, and the crepitant rhonchus existing more or less abundantly in the former, and absent in the latter, will distinguish the cases. In hepatiza- tion, too, blowing respiration is a constant attendant, and would be heard over the entire chest, were the lung implicated to the extent supposed. Now blowing respiration is com- paratively an uncommon attendant on pleu- ritic effusion ; and never, so far as our expe- rience goes, acquires the intensity of the blowing murmurs of hepatization : it appears distant and subdued, and is, besides, heard over a very limited extent of surface *. Cancerous solidification.— Those cases of cancerous accumulation are capable of being confounded with pleuritic effusion, in which the lung is compressed against the spine, and the greater part of the affected side filled with solid matter. There are a number of phy- sical signs (in addition to the local and gene- ral symptoms, which may be, more or less, accurately similar) common to cancerous and fluid collections. Such are, deficient mobility of the affected side, perfect dulness, propor- tional in extent to that of the disease, absence of respiratory murmurs and of vocal resonance, deficiency of phonic and tussive vibration, and decumbiture on the affected side. There are, on the other hand, certain signs, more or less invariably attending intra-thoracic cancer, whereby the diagnosis of the disease may be established. The jugular, axillary, and superior epigastric veins are enlarged ; the sounds of the heart are more distinctly transmitted than in the case of liquid accumulation; pulsation has sometimes been detected (Stokes), arising either in the adventitious product itself, or transmitted by it from the large vessels; there are sometimes blowing respiration and bron- chophony, diffused over too wide a space to be supposed the result of partial adhesion of the lung co-existing with liquid effusion ; dyspha- gia is commonly observed, and there may be cancerous growths in the liver and elsewhere. It seems almost certain, that the sign of peri- pheric fluctuation must be wanting even when the cancerous matter is of the most diffluent 1 We do not here allude to the blowing respiration arising from adhesion of a portion of lung to the walls of the chest; though we may mention, that in this case also the intensity of the phenomenon is rarely, if ever, that observed in pneumonia. encephaloid kind, but we have not yet had an opportunity of experimentally ascertaining this. Cases of cancerous accumulation are of two kinds, in respect of the physical effects of the morbid growth on the walls of the chest and adjacent viscera; they are unattended or at- tended with signs of displacement. When the case is of the first kind, the amount of dulness and of absence of the respiratory murmurs are such as in empyema would be attended with bulging of the intercostal spaces, detrusion of the viscera, &c. ; hence the want of harmony between the results of inspection, auscultation, and percussion, renders these cases easier of diagnosis than those in which phenomena of displacement exist. In a patient observed by Dr. Stokes, this peculiar state of things was w'ell marked. When the case is of the second kind, the points previously enumerated are all we have to trust to. As some writers appear, at least by implication, to doubt the existence of such cases, it may be well to observe, that we saw a very remarkable instance of the kind in a young male subject under the care of M. Louis, at La Pitie, in the winter of 1834-5. The affected side (the right) was enormously distended, smooth, white, glisten- ing ; the integuments cedematous ; the liver detruded into the right iliac fossa, and the heart’s pulsations felt outside the left nipple. On the death of the subject, the tumour was found to be of the encephaloid species of cancer, and larger than the head of an adult. jEnlargement of the Liver.—The dilatation of the side and dull sound caused by enlarge- ment of this organ, may, according to Dr. Stokes, be distinguished from those produced by empyema by the following characters :— “ 1st, the absence of intercostal paralysis or protrusion. 2nd, the clearness, on percussion, of the upper and middle portions of the chest. 3d, the loudness of respiration in the postcro- inferior portion, which is much greater than could be anticipated from the amount of dul- ness. 4th, the absence of lateral displace- ment of the heart, and the existence, in many cases at least, of the vertical displacement up- wards. This is principally seen when the left lobe of the liver is engaged. 5th, the fact of the interlobular fissure being parallel with the mesian line ; for in displacement of the liver, the pressure being exercised on the right lobe, the interlobular fissure is directed towards the left side, and forms a considerable angle with the mesian line. 6th, we find in cases of hepatic tumour without pleuritis, that the dul- ness of the postero-inferior portion of the side disappears on the patient taking a deep in- spiration, returns upon expiration, and remains fixed during ordinary breathing. I have never witnessed this phenomenon in any case of empyema. I believe, however, that the test is not applicable, when the lower portion of the pleura has been obliterated by adhesions1.” The first proposition requires to be somewhat 1 Op. citaml. p. 514.