EMPYEMA. 98 upon it, the signs change. The upper part of the chest recovers in a great measure or even completely its normal sonorousness : hence a diminution of the extent over which dulness is perceptible actually announces in- crease of the disease. Though rare, we have observed a few examples of this occurrence ; practically it is of much importance, for it might easily betray the observer into a belief that absorption had commenced. The in- ferior part of the chest, of course, sounds duller than before ; but, at first, this increase is not strongly marked. The dull sound is now limited superiorly by a well-defined line answering to the upper border of the effu- sion ; and the limits of the dull sound may be changed by causing the patient to assume different positions, in as much as the lung floats on the surface of the fluid, while this collects in wdiatever part of the chest the changing position of the patient renders the most dependent. This mobility of the dull sound is nevertheless not a sign uniformly pro- ducible ; in some cases adhesions prevent this, in others the cause has not been ascertained. The resistance experienced by the finger in percussing is now notably increased opposite the effusion. While the fluid is in this con- dition the respiratory sounds are completely absent at the base of the chest: their duration and intensity are much diminished, where a comparatively thin stratum only exists ; here too they have sometimes a bronchial or even a blowing quality, which at the upper part of the lung, condensed, but not surrounded with fluid, is strongly marked, especially in the expiration. The ringing of the voice now distinctly acquires the peculiar tremulous and bleating character known as aegophony, espe- cially at the latero-posterior parts of the chest, towards the upper surface of the effusion. Fig. 230. Fig. 230. Diagram exhibiting the jwsition of the fluid and lung in gravitating effusion. JEgopliony audible between La and b. From Williams' Lectures on Diseases of the Chest. The value of aegophony, as a sign of pleuritic collection, was, how'ever, greatly exaggerated by Laennec ; for in many cases of pleurisy it is altogether absent, being replaced or not by bronchophony, and it unquestionably does sometimes attend hepatization. Besides, a species of resonance, hardly differing from the aegophonic, arises in the healthy state in individuals having a shrill treble voice ; whence the obvious inference, that aegophony is most valuable as a sign in persons having a bass voice. c. Effusion with dilatation.— Hitherto we have observed no alteration in the form of the chest; because, as M. Woillez has well point- ed out, the fluid has not accumulated to such extent as to destroy the elasticity of the lung completely ; and as long as any share of this force remains in action, mutual pressure of the thoracic w'alls and lungs cannot arise. But with the increase of fluid, the lung is ulti- mately reduced to its positive volume, (vide Emphysema, p. 80,) and is incapable of retreat- ing further before the accumulating fluid ; this consequently acts upon the thoracic parietes, and the phenomena of dilatation commence. Widening and diminished hollowness of the intercostal spaces, especially at the antero- external aspect of the base of the chest, be- come manifest ; the ribs are raised, so that the angle they form with the spine inclines more to a right one ; their lower borders are somewhat everted ; the intercostal tissues at length bulge outwards, and the side acquires a smooth appearance. The hard parts may even yield : cases have been met with in which the sternum became distinctly promi- nent ; the motions of the ribs on each other are almost or completely abolished, as like- wise those of general expansion ; but a slow dragging elevation of the lower part of the chest is perceptible. All tussive and phonic fremitus are at an end, and friction pheno- mena are totally inaudible *. The increased quantity of fluid produces a remarkable effect upon the semicircular mea- surement of the side. This is most clearly ascertainable, when the disease occurs on the right side ; for, as Drs. Stokes, Woillez, and others have shown, the normal capacity of the right side exceeds (it is necessary to add, in right-handed people) that of the left by about half an inch. And the parietes of the chest are not the only parts which yield before the accumulating liquid : detrusion downwards of the diaphragm and subjacent abdominal viscera occurs, (of the liver2, when the accumulation is on the right; of the spleen, probably, though we 1 Dr. Stokes has witnessed a case, in which, although great and universal dulness of the side existed, friction phenomena were audible, and even perceptible, to the patient, in the postero-inferior, and lateral portion of the chest: “ they may then,” he in- fers, “co-exist with extensive liquid effusion.”—(Op. citand. p. 469.) But upon this it may be observed that, supposing the case to have been at the period of absorption, (and there is nothing stated in the text of Dr. Stokes to exclude the supposition,) the fluid might have been nearly removed, and yet the condensation of the superficial strata of the lung sufficient to pro- duce extensive and marked dulness ; now under such circumstances, the existence of friction phenomena would have been almost inevitable. 2 A distinct sulcus between the ribs and tumour, resulting from the displacement of the liver, is, ac- cording to Dr. Stokes, often to be detected.