ANGEIOLEUCITIS. 282 the Cure of external Aneurism, with some Observa- tions and Experiments illustrative of the effects of the different Methods of procuring the Obliteration of Arteries. Med.-Chirurg. Trans, vii. London, 1816. Bibes, Quelques Considerations sur les Ressources de la Nature dans la Cure de l’Anevrysme. Bullet, de la Fac. de Med. Paris, 1816. Scarpa, Mcmoria sulla Legatura delle principali Arterie degli arti, con una Appendice all’ Opera sull’ Aneurisma. Pavia, 1817. WisharCs translation. Edin. 1819. Luca, De Osses- centia Arteriarum Senili. Marburg, 1817. Norman, On the Operation for Aneurism. Med.-Chir. Trans. 1819. Fleischer, Aneurismatis Varicosi Complicati llistoria. Dorpat. 1822. Boring, Quaedam circa An- eurysmatuin Pathologiam. Berlin, 1822. Delpech, Clinique Chir. de Montpellier. Paris, 1823. Casa- tnayor. Reflexions et Observations, Anat.-Chir. sur l’Anevrysme spontane en general, et sur celui de l’Artere femoral en particulier. Paris, 182.5. Turner, On the Arterial System, intended to illustrate the importance of studying the Anastomoses, in reference to the rationale of the new Operation for Aneurisms, Ac. London, 1826. Wardrop, On Aneurism, and its Cure by a new Operation. London, 1828. Fabris, Sul Mctode di Operar gli Ancurismi esterni e sulla vera causa della Emorragia secondaria all’ allaciatura. Venise, 1828. Duput/tren, Memoire sur les Ane- vrysmes (jui compliquent les Fractures, et les Plaies d’Armes a feu, et sur leur Traitement par la Ligature pratiquee snivant la Methode d’Anel. Rep.d’Anat. et de Pliys. Path. v. Paris, 1828. Burnish)/, Tabula; Anat.-Chir. Operationes Ligandarum Arteriarum ina- jorum exponentes, Ac. (in Russian and Latin.' St. Petersburg, 1828. Fol. Atl. Scarpa, Ohs. et Re- flex. prat, sur la Ligature des principales Arteres des Membres d’apres la Methode de Hunter, dans les Anevrysmes : Archives de Med. vol. xviii. Esame Comparative del Sisteme Arterioso di Ambedue gli arti inferiori, Ac. Annali d’Omedei, 1828. Berard, Memoire sur 1’etat des Arteres qui naissent des Tn- meurs Anevrysmales, et Considerations sur l'Emploi de la Ligature entre le Sac et le Systeme Capillaire. Archives Gen. de Med. vol. xxiii. Guthrie, On the Diseases and Injuries of Arteries, with the Operations required for their Cure. London, 1830. Velpeau, Piqure, ou Acupuncture des Arteres dans le Traite- ment des Anevrysmes. Journ. Hebd 1831. Corbin, Des Anevrysmes Spontanes, cousideres sous le Rap- port de l’Anat. Path, et de la Therap. Ibid. 1831. Vilardebo, De l’Operation de l’Anevrysme, selon la Methode de Brasdor. Paris, 1831. To these works may be added the general systematic works on Sur- gery, particularly those of Wiseman, Janes, Plainer, Lassus, Boyer, Rust, Langcnbcck, Sabatier, Bell, Burns, Callisen, Zang, Schreger, Dorsey, Gibson, Velpeau, Malgaigne, Bl sins, as well as the articles on Aneurism in Cooper’s Diet, the Diets, de Med. et Chirurg. and the American Cyclopa;dia. (Wm. B. Costello.) ANEURISM BY ANASTOMOSIS. (See Nasvus, N.evi Materni.) ANGEIOLEUCITIS, from iyyuov, a ves- sel, and XtuKof, white; inflammation des tissus b/ancs, Fr. ; inflammation of the lymphatics. The domain of medicine and surgery has, with- in the last half century, been greatly enlarged by the successful study of the inflammation of arteries and veins. In this respect, however, the knowledge derived from the investigation of the venous, has been far more important than from that of the arterial system. Des- tined to bring back to the heart the blood that had been sent out by the arteries, and wrhich had become altered in its properties, and at the same time, to olfer a receptacle for all recreinentitial matter, and for most of the molecules that are to make their way into the circulating torrent, the veins also serve as conductors to innumerable causes of disease, whilst they may be themselves the seat of various alterations. We find accordingly, at the present day, that the veins have acquired immense importance in general pathology. But there is another system in the economy which seems to share with the veins the un- fortunate privilege of concurring in the pro- duction of a variety of disorders, and which has escaped notice hitherto; to wit, the lymphatic system. In this point of view, it may indeed be affirmed, that it has been left in the same oblivion as was the circulatory system of the black blood, before it was made the subject of investigation by J. Hunter, and the modern physiologists. Adopting, to a great extent, the ideas of Mascagni, as to its physiology, I long since devoted my atten- tion to the study of its alterations. I felt satisfied, as the lymphatic vessels ex- ist throughout the entire body, and as, like the veins, they serve for the convergent cir- culation, that, like them also, they might transport from one place to another the germ of many diseases, and by the disturbance of their own functions, give rise to changes in the tissues adjacent to them. What was al- ready known as regards scrofula, and infiltra- tion, and the opinions of M. Alard on ele- phantiasis, gave countenance to this idea ; but it was necessary to examine the question under a different aspect, by taking as a guide for ob- servation the assistance to be obtained from anatomy and physiology. My attention has been devoted to this subject since 1818 ; and the various papers w hich I published at subse- quent periods, on the alterations of the fluids, are almost as strictly related to it as to the pathology of the veins ; the only difference being this—that I had not, as I mean to do now, considered it separately, or in such a manner as to exclude collateral matter. The subject, however, even now, is too novel to admit of its being treated completely, and in all its details. I shall therefore confine my- self to the points on which I think I shall be able to throw some light; and on that, more especially, which relates to the inflammation of the lymphatic vessels, known under the names of Lymphangitis, Lymphitis, &c., and which I prefer designating by the term at the head of this article. The lymphatic tissue is capable of becom- ing inflamed in different w-ays, and in various degrees, like the other tissues of the body. Here, as elsewhere, we observe inflammations to arise from direct and indirect causes, from contusions, or from solutions of continuity, either of the lymphatic vessels, or of their ganglions themselves. But this inflammation, nevertheless, at its commencement, most com- monly has its source in diseases quite foreign to the organs of which we are now speaking; and it w ill be readily recognised, that almost all the diseases of the lymphatic system arise