ANEURISM. 251 extremity of the limb. In one of the cases, in which Breschet successfully placed a liga- ture below the point of communication, he affirms, that on exposing the corresponding orifices of the artery and vein, he actually saw the mixture taking place. The operative process therefore which ought to be adopted, whenever operation be- comes unavoidable, is the same as that which would be resorted to in false aneurism of an artery with free and numerous anastomoses, and that is, to place twro ligatures, one above, and the other, below the communication. The operation will, it is true, be tedious and difficult, on account of the altered condition of the cellular tissue, and the changed ap- pearance which the parts wall have assumed, but it is the only one on which the surgeon can rely with any degree of certainty. In placing the ligatures, the lower one should be the first tied ; if the surgeon were to proceed otherwise, he would throw awray the assistance which the pulsations would afford him in dis- covering the lower part of the artery. The various other modes, that have been proposed to effect the obliteration of arteries, will be noticed under their respective heads, Arteries, Haemostatics, Torsion, &c. PARTICULAR ANEURISMS. SUPERIOR EXTREMITY. In operating for aneurism, the surgeon ought to secure the attendance of assistants in sufficient number ; and to these should be confided the care of laying in proper order, tourniquets, pads for compressing the arteries, straight and curved-edged bistouries, forceps, blunt-pointed scissors, blunt retractors, flexible directors, aneurism needles, ligatures, sponges, cold and tepid water, and whatever else may be deemed necessary. Aneurismal tumours in the hand, notwith- standing the size of the trunk of the palmar arch, are extremely rare, and occur mostly from wounds, in which case the tumour is formed from extravasation. When the disease has arisen spontaneously, it may be treated successfully, either by compression, or by the ligature of the radial or ulnar arteries, or of both arteries successively, if the first ligature has not had the desired effect. Guattani saw a case of this kind, in which the tumour was as large as an orange, and situated at the base of the hypothenar eminence. When blood is effused amidst the surrounding parts, in conse- quence of a wound of the artery, it may be pos- sible through the wound to reach the mouth of the bleeding vessel, and secure it. When this cannot be accomplished, and compression does not succeed, the ulnar artery may be tied, at the lower part of the fore-arm, or the root of the superficial palmar arch itself may be laid bare, by making an incision of the length of an inch and a half, extending from the radial side of the pisiform bone, towards the interosseous space between the annular and little fingers. In this situation the artery runs between two veins, the ulnar nerve lying to its ulnar side. The subcutaneous cellular tissue of this part of the palm contains a good deal of granular fat, which juts out of its cells as soon as the incision is made : this must be held aside or removed, in order to bring the vessel into view. A needle armed with a ligature is then passed under the artery from the ulnar to the radial side (see No. 4, fig. 77). This operation is neither so simple, nor so easily performed, as that of tying the vessel at the lower part of the fore-arm ; and, as incisions in the palm of the hand ought to be avoided as much as pos- sible, the latter operation, under all ordinary circumstances, ought to be preferred. The radial artery is also accessible on the back of the hand, where it is about to form the deep-seated palmar arch. The objection to the incision on the hand does not apply to this re- gion. The operation, owing to the superficial situation of the vessel is not difficult, and is performed as follows : The fingers being held straight, and the thumb thrown strongly into extension, the two ten- dons of the abductor mag- nus, and extensor longus are rendered prominent. In the depression between them, the artery will be felt pulsating, in the cleft between the posterior ex- tremities of the two first metacarpal bones, close upon their capsular liga- ments. After the division of the skin, the cephalic vein, and a branch of the radial nerve are exposed ; beneath there is an apon- eurosis which conceals the artery ; this should be di- vided on a director. The vessel is then isolated, and the ligature being placed beneath, is tied. Fig. 76. a, the artery; h, the cephalic vein ; cl d, the ligature passed under the ar- tery. Both the radial and ulnar arteries however, are more frequently tied above the wrist for aneurismal tumours, or traumatic extravasa- tions in the palm of the hand. In some in- stances, where the haemorrhage has returned after the ligation of one of these vessels, the other has been also secured. Some very eminent authorities state, that this proceeding may in general be dispensed with, as the com- pression of the second vessel, conjointly with the ligation of the first, will effect a cure. ARTERIES OF THE FORE-ARM. The fore-arm is supplied by three arteries, the radial and ulnar, derived from the bifurca- tion of the brachial at the bend of the arm, and the interosseous, derived from the ulnar. Radial artery, above the wrist.-—The fore- arm being presented in supination, and the pulsations of the artery being felt, a longitu- Fig. 76. radial nerve ; c, the