355 AQUO-MEMBRANITIS. formation of a filmy opaque membrane within its centre. The opacity and thickening, with deposition upon the capsular portion of the membrane of the aqueous humour, has been sometimes mistaken for the effect of inflamma- tion of the anterior hemisphere of the crys- talline capsule. I am convinced that this error is committed by some modern writers of celebrity. It will be borne in mind, that the secreting polished surface of the mem- brane of the aqueous humour is directed from the capsule of the lens, to which its less po- lished, vascular, and comparatively flocculent surface, is connected ; having in this respect a precise analogy to the mode in which the free, polished, secreting, and the attached, flocculent, non-secreting surfaces of other se- rous membranes are related. A trivial degree of inflammation of the capsule of the lens, just sufficient to render its texture slightly opaque, generally occasions an increased secretion within its cavity, which is known by its bulg- ing towards the pupil, and rendering the iris, but not the cornea, convex. I have many times removed a lens surrounded by a thick- ened capsule, and a quantity of turbid fluid; but then the opacity or layer of lymph- like matter is deposited on what was pre- viously the polished, secreting, lenticular sur- face of the capsule, whilst in the case of acute inflammation of the capsular portion of the membrane of the aqueous humour, the lymph- like matter, when at all considerable, is situated on the corneal, not the capsular, sur- face of that membrane. Here, then, is a ground of diagnosis founded on the products of the disease, when acute, which I am satis- fied is not sufficiently understood '. Other changes in the membrane of the aqueous hu- mour, besides those I have enumerated, are stated to succeed either a prolonged attack, or repeated attacks of inflammation ; of these I have only witnessed its conversion into a tough cartilaginous layer, or a distinct osseous lamina. These morbid alterations are, how- ever, exceedingly infrequent. Causes.—The causes of aquo-capsulitis are, for the most part, the same as those which give rise to various other forms of inflamma- tion of the eye, and they will be referred to in detail, in the article Ophthalmia. I have witnessed the disease after contusions of the 1 I have lately attended a girl (Mary Bird, art. 13, residing in Great Hampton Street), in whom the dis- tinction referred to in the text may be very clearly witnessed. There is a nearly circular opacity within the pupil, which is somewhat smaller in size than that aperture; the opacity is by no means dense, but it is fixed ; a few delicate filaments (which are scarcely visible to the naked eye) are detached from its lower border to the back part of the pupillary margin ; and the opacity itself may be seen, as it appears to me, to be placed not upon the lenticular surface of the crys- talline capsule, but upon the corneal aspect of the cap- sular portion of the membrane of the aqueous humour. The distinction between the two diseases (inflamma- tion of the membrane of the aqueous humour, and inflammation of the crystalline capsule) may, there- fore, in respect to this morbid phenomenon, be beauti- fully observed. eye, after wounds of the cornea, and more frequently as a consequence of the operation of keratonyxis; and on several occasions, in children, from bathing in canals or shallow streams of water, remaining as they some- times do, with the legs immersed in that fluid for half an hour together during the middle of a hot day. Diagnosis.—See inflammation of the cornea, of the iris, and capsule of the lens. Treatment.—In commencing the treatment, it is important to bear in mind, not merely the severity of the local symptoms, but the state of health and constitutional vigour of the patient. I have subdued the severest forms of inflammation of the membrane of the aqueous humour by means of quinine, with very slight alterative doses of mercury,—mer- cury not given to the extent of producing sali- vation—when the disease has occurred in feeble strumous children; and this plan of management I adopted and recommended at a time when, as far as I was able to learn, it was the customary practice to treat the dis- ease by means of mercury, as for the cure of common iritis'. If the patient, though young, be tolerably strong, and if the inflammation be decidedly acute, it would be desirable to apply a few leeches immediately above the eye-brow, to recommend&small doses of mercury in some of its forms, and, with any suitable combination, to be taken until the mouth is slightly affec- ted. A small blister should be applied be- hind one or both ears, just as one or both eyes may happen to be affected; and it sel- dom happens that both eyes are diseased in anything like an equal degree at the same time. As a local application, I generally re- commend either a poppy fomentation, an aqueous solution of opium (prepared by adding half-a-pint of boiling water to four scruples of powdered opium, allowing it to stand for twenty minutes, then filtering for use), or a weak goulard lotion. I further advise that a mustard pediluvium be used every evening for about ten minutes; that the patient’s apartment be darkened; and that the diet be of a mild unstimulating character. The necessity for bleeding, and for its repe- tition, will be determined by the constitution of the patient, the severity of the symptoms, and the influence it may, if previously tried, appear to exert upon the disease. To bleed a weak scrofulous child for the cure of a disease which is often obstinate in duration, and chronic in its nature, and which, also, is often protracted from the debility of the sub- ject in whom it occurs, is, in fact, still further to prolong its existence. When extensive muddiness of the pupil is present, with merely a slight degree of inflammation, and more especially if the neural surface of the cornea is cloudy and opaque by patches, the best plan of management consists in the administration of ' Midland Reporter, vol. ii.; vol. viii. A a 2 Medical Gazette,