AMAUROSIS. 96 apoplexy or the development of slow inflam- matory action : now and then we find an apoplectic diathesis, without any peculiarity of vascular action generally; but the most in- sidious cases are those in which the disease is induced by mental labour or anxiety not in great excess, but in persons subject to frequent or continued derangement of stomach, liver, or some important part or parts of the alimen- tary apparatus. Amaurosis from cerebral disease of organic kind is frequent during dentition, and often occurs very suddenly, as other parts some- times become paralysed, but in most instances it is slowly developed, and the consequence of serous effusion. I have also seen this form of amaurosis produced in children by the sudden suppression of extensive cutaneous eruption, or by checking a diarrhoea. From whatever cause the cerebral mischief arises in children, it is generally well marked by the ordinary symptoms. The most insidious forms of the disease come on after the age of puberty, and are most frequent about and after the middle period of life ; but from the variety of causes no particular period of life is exempt from amaurosis from organic cerebral change or morbid deposit. The prognosis in these cases is favourable or not, according to the extent of disease, the rapidity of its formation, its continuance or its cause ; thus, when in addition to the amauro- sis, hemiphlegia, paraphlegia, or other form of paralysis evince extensive cerebral disease, the prospect of restoration of vision is very in- different, especially when the disease has occurred suddenly and the amaurosis is com- plete or nearly so ; and the probability of re- covery lessens usually in proportion to the continuance of the affection. Further, the cause of the organic cerebral disturbance will sometimes render the prognosis unfavourable ; for example, severe injuries to the head, ex- tensive apoplectic extravasations, or sudden effusions during teething, or fever, &c. I also consider the prognosis bad, when the disease makes progress with little or no interruption, and offers scarcely any variety, being rarely stationary ; never mitigating, but always more or less in advance under ordinary circum- stances. This happens during the growth of some tumours, and under the change termed ramollissement. Treatment.—In nearly all the cases of cere- bral disease with a diminution of nervous power, the vascular system suffers in common with other parts, and the action of the heart and arteries frequently appears to contraindi- cate the loss of blood in the treatment of the disease,—the pulse being slow and easily com- pressible, the surface pallid, and the extre- mities and surface cold. Every medical prac- titioner must be familiar with such condition as consequent upon injuries to the head and apoplectic attacks, and have observed how the action of heart and arteries rises and becomes augmented in force and frequency under the judicious abstraction of blood, which relieves the cerebral pressure and thus restores ner- vous energy. The same effect is sometimes produced on the vascular system by cerebral mischief of slower and more insidious character; and it is therefore occasionally found when amauro- sis is present; and such cases so closely re- semble an opposite form of disease, or that termed asthenic, that much care and discrimi- nation are required in forming a correct diag- nosis. I shall refer to the subject again after I have described the asthenic disease. With very few exceptions, the treatment of organic amaurosis (cerebral) will be comprised under the following heads :— 1. Relief of vascular turgescence by gene- ral or local bleeding. 2. Prevention of further congestion or tur- gescence, by diet, mental and bodily quietude, and counter-irritation. 3. Promoting absorption of morbid deposit, by counter-irritants, mercury, iodine, &c. 1. General abstraction of blood is required in cases in which the amaurosis appears suddenly with giddiness, headach, torpor, or marked symptoms of cerebral congestion, as in injuries to the head, apoplexy, or after intemperance, gluttony, anger, or suddenly suppressed secre- tion or discharge ; or suddenly repelled super- ficial disease, as in gout, erysipelas, &c. In the first instances the pulse may be slow, compressible, but laboured ; in the majority of cases it will be full, incompressible, and perhaps quicker than usual. The blood should be removed by venesection, and in such quantity as to produce a marked effect on the vascular system ; the orifice should be large, and the patient erect during the opera- tion : and the pulse should be carefully watched during the flow of blood, so that the stream may be arrested as soon as a decided change is perceived in the beat of the artery. With such caution this part of the treatment can rarely do mischief, for the action of the heart and arteries readily indicates the amount of loss of blood which the system will bear: thus, whilst the young and robust patient may lose to twenty or thirty ounces of blood without marked change in the beat of the pulse, the old or feeble may evince such change in pulse after a loss of perhaps not more than six or eight ounces ; yet in each case the desired effect may be equally well produced. It is not by the amount of blood abstracted that good is effected, but simply by moderating the force or power of vascular action. The indications for a repetition of the operation consist in a return of the symptoms described. I much prefer venesection to arteriotomy in the temporal vessel, as the latter neces- sarily leads to an interruption in the superfi- cial circulation by division of the artery, or from pressure over the site of puncture, to arrest the flow of blood, and because I have observed the effect of this plan of abstracting blood to be frequently prejudicial, instead of beneficial, in severe cases of ophthalmic in-