398 GANGRENE, HOSPITAL. monia, &c. aided by alteratives, and mild sto- machic purgatives. Removal to a dry healthy atmosphere, or to the seaside, is recom- mended. For local applications, the solutions of the chlorides of soda or lime, the dilute acids, the balsams and terebinthinates, are spoken of as the most efficacious. Blisters and leeches are to be avoided. For further remarks on the pathology of furunculus, see Anthrax, the bibliography of which article comprehends most of the works consulted in this notice. (T. Longmore.) G. GANGLION. See Burs.® Mucosae. GANGRENE. (Tdyypaiva, Gr. from ypaivui, I eat, or devour ; gangrsena, Lat.; gangrene, Fr.; Der Brand, Germ.; cangrena, Ital.); a term signifying, Incomplete Mortifi- cation, or that condition which immediately precedes Sphacelus, or Complete Mortifica- tion. (See Mortification.) GANGRENE, HOSPITAL. (Putrid ul- cer, hospital sore, Eng. Syn. Gangrcena conta- giosa, phagedcena gungrcenosa, Lat.; pourriture d’hopital, typhus traumatique, Fr.) When, under certain circumstances, present- ly to be more particularly noticed, but espe- cially when, in an unhealthy season or climate, a large number of patients are crowded toge- ther in the wards of an hospital, ill-ventilated, or placed in an insalubrious situation, any ulcers, or open wounds, with which such pa- tients may be afflicted, are apt to become affected with a peculiar form of ulcerous and gangrenous inflammation, that is liable not only to cause the destruction of large portions of the body, but not unfrequently even, by the general disturbance of the constitution which attends it, to occasion a fearful mor- tality. The particular characters of this affection, local and general, vary considerably in different cases; but its course and its effects are sufficiently uniform to warrant surgical practitioners in regarding it as a spe- cial form of inflammatory disease, and in de- signating it by a special appellation. From the circumstances under which it has most usually been met with, it has been termed Hospital Gangrene, and though neither of the component terms of this appellation be unexceptionable, it has the recommendations of being in familiar use and of being sanc- tioned by very respectable authorities. Hospital gangrene is found most frequently to attack, as already hinted, parts which have experienced some perceptible solution of con- tinuity, as from scratching, bruising, or wound- ing, or which have had theirintegumentsinjured by blisters, flagellations, burns, or ulcerations. Even the bites of moschetoes have been no- ticed in the West Indies to be followed by attacks of this disease. But in some instances, without its being possible to discover any pre- vious injury of the part, a small inflamed pim- ple, papula, or small boil, or a vesicle, will make its appearance, and in process of time produce an ulcer exhibiting the characteristic features of hospital gangrene. Whether, in such cases, there may not have existed some very minute injury, such as would arise from the extraction of a hair, or from the removal of a small portion of the cuticle at its root, may appear doubtful. Specific sores, or ulcers, have been said to be less liable to attacks of hospital gangrene than those which are of a simple nature. This was particularly observed by Dr. Rollo, in the epidemic of hospital gangrene which fell under his observation at Woolwich, in 1797. Such sores are, by no means, however, altogether exempt, both cancerous and vene- real ulcers having repeatedly been seen to be attacked with this disease. Local phenomena.—When hospital gangrene attacks an open sore, it sometimes seizes on the whole surface at once, but more frequently it manifests itself, in the first place, at a particular point, or at several points simultaneously or in quick succession, and each point gradually extends till at length a large portion, or the whole, of the surface is affected. The appear- ance which the disease exhibits when first discovered, has been variously described ; by some, as a small vesicle, containing a brownish coloured fluid, on the evacuation of which, spontaneously, or from violence, a brown cen- tral puncture appears, discharging a thin acri- monious serum ; by others, as a distinct little ulcer of a darkish colour, with jagged edges, unequal and ragged bottom, and discharging a thin matter, having a peculiar smell. It has been conceived by some, that in all cases a small vesicle is formed at first, just as happens when the disease makes its appearance in a part that does not exhibit any apparent solu- tion of continuity.—Blaclcadder. The surface, whether more or less exten- sive, which is affected with hospital gangrene, generally exhibits in a short time a coating of a dirty white, grey, or brown colour, which gradually increases in thickness. It seems to have been usually taken for granted, that this coating is the product of the death or sphacelation of a layer of living textures ; hence it has been designated by surgeons as a slough, and they have described its detach- ment as the separation of a dead part. M. Delpech, however, was led to conclude that this layer is a substance of new formation, in fact a pseudo-membrane or pellicular exuda- tion ; to which new layers are added in pro- portion as the ulcerative process penetrates more deeply. But besides this, which he designates as the pulpy species, M. Delpech describes another form of hospital gangrene under the name of the ulcerous, which, he conceives, has escaped the attention of surgeons. In this form, the ulceration, commencing at one or at several points, and gradually extending both in breadth and in depth, destroys the parts in which it has established itself, without leaving any other covering on the surface than mere sanious matter.