FISTULA, INTESTINAL. 195 Cases of fecalfistula subsequent to the return of the intestine into the abdomen. REFERENCE. TIME WHEN THE FECAL DISCHARGE COMMENCED. DURATION OF FE- CAL DISCHARGE. Sir A.Cooper 2d edit. j>t. i. p. 47. 10th day after ope- ration. Wound healed in 11 weeks. * Cooper. ditto. 15th day after ope- ration. Feculent discharge ceased in three weeks. Cooper. ditto. 5th day. Feces escaped only during 3 days. Key. Memoir, p. 112. 3d day. Discharge of feces continued 5 days. Key. ditto. 4th day. In 16 days the wound had closed. Lawrence. 5th edit, p. 328. 42d day. Death 10 days after. Le Dran. Lawrence, p. 350. 11th day. Patient recovered. Failure of Spontaneous Cure.—The restora- tive operations described above may be inter- rupted in different stages of their progress, by imperfection, or disturbance of the adhesive process—-by insufficient retraction of the val- vular projection—or by premature closure of the external wound. The adhesive process may fail from defec- tive deposition of organizable lymph ; it may be disturbed by the officious hand of the sur- geon ; and Dupuytren has known the newly- formed adhesions 1 to be destroyed by the dragging of the mesentery being excessive. The injurious consequences of failure or dis- turbance of the adhesive stage, are fatal fecu- lent effusions into the peritoneum. The retraction of the divided portion of the intestine, and of the intermediate projecting valve, is sometimes insufficient to allow of the continuity of the intestinal tube being restored. This incomplete retraction may result from defective operation of those causes which have been shown to obviate or overcome the resistance afforded by the projecting valve. Thus, the pressure of the intestinal contents against the valve may be defective, from the large size of the external aperture permitting their unopposed escape. The retractive in- fluence of the mesentery may be deficient, from the long and relaxed condition of this structure ; or it may be counteracted by the injudicious employment of ligatures, for the purpose of confining the divided extremities of intestine to the neighbourhood of the wound. The ligature is in this case not only injurious from opposing the retraction of the mesentery, but also from dragging it out- wards, and thereby increasing the prominence ' Diet. <Ic Med. etdc Cliir. Pr. t. iii. p. 137. of the projecting ridge. It may also be the cause of subsequent mischief, by producing more extensive adhesions than are necessary for the mere prevention of feculent effusion. From incomplete retraction of the projecting ridge, the tendency to permanent fecal fistula is greatly increased. Premature closure of the external wound may produce intestinal obstruction, feculent effusion into the peritoneum, or infiltration of feces in the integuments, followed by ab- scesses and sinuses. It is, therefore, import- ant that the surgeon should not be too solici- tous to close the external wound, by pressure or other means, until he has reason to believe that the contents of the alimentary canal have acquired an easy transit from the upper to the lower part of the intestine. From premature contraction of the external wound symptoms may be produced not unlike those which attend strangulated herniaThe patient from this cause may be attacked with acute pain in the situation of the fistula, tension of the abdomen, vomiting, hiccup, and general prostration of strength ; and if relief be not obtained, rupture of the intestine, feculent effusion, and death may follow. II.—Intestinal Fistula from Abscess. Various hard substances introduced into the intestines, are capable of exciting irritation in the coats of the bowel, and of giving rise to abscess. The ulcerative process, whereby the matter gradually makes its way towards the surface, is usually preceded and accompanied by a process of adhesion. The peritoneal coat of the intestine, before being opened by ulcera- tion, is thus agglutinated to the abdominal walls, and effusion of feculent matter into the bag of the peritoneum is prevented. These abscesses are generally indolent in their course. They are usually preceded by a dull fixed pain in some part of the abdomen, attacks of colic, and various disturbed condi- tions of the digestive functions. The seat of pain becomes firm and unyielding ; at length a well-defined tumour may be felt; the inte- guments assume a dull red colour ; obscure fluctuation is perceptible ; and the abscess, opening upon the surface of the body, dis- charges pus, feculent matter, and occasionally the extraneous body, which originally excited the mischief. In this manner fecal fistula is ultimately established. The following cases will serve to illustrate the usual course of this affection :— A boy 2, aged thirteen years, was admitted into St. Thomas’s hospital, with an irreducible scrotal hernia, which was continually dis- charging feculent matter through a small open- ing in the scrotum. He remembered having accidentally swallowed a pin, and that five weeks afterwards his hernia began to swell, and to become painful. An abscess formed, which soon burst, and the point of a pin 1 See Scarpa, Op. cilat. p. 342. 2 Cooper, part i. p. 23. () 2