481 BLOOD-LETTING. most cases, especially where the uneasiness in the head is limited to the frontal region. In some cases of chronic inflammation of the eye, and inflammatory affections of the lachrymal sac, I have repeatedly advised leeches to be applied alternately on the nasal septum, and on the skin adjoining the inflamed sac, in order that the effects of each method might be fairly compared. Almost invariably the result has been a decided preference to the abstraction of the blood from the nose. The continuity of the mucous membrane, which lines the nose with that of the lachrymal organs, and the free inosculation of their vessels, will explain the advantages to be derived from this prac- tice in inflammatory affections of the lachry- mal sac. In some cutaneous diseases of an inflamma- tory character, and where the integuments of the nose are chiefly affected, the application of leeches to the septum may often be beneficially resorted to'. Leeches applied behind the ears are well- known to relieve affections of the head, a prac- tical fact, satisfactorily explained by the com- munication of the vessels of the integuments behind the ear, with those of the encephalon. Immediately behind the mastoid process, and near where the temporal and parietal hones unite, is situated the mastoid foramen, through which passes, sometimes, an artery, and always a large vein ; the artery is a branch of the occipital, and goes to the dura mater, and the vein comes directly from the lateral sinus. In the treatment of some forms of ophthalmia, scarifying the conjunctiva, or applying leeches thereon, is a useful mode of abstracting blood locally, the good effects of which, wrhen other modes of depletion have been employed, are very striking. Leeches applied to inflamed gums, give great relief, as they also do when applied to the mucous membrane of the vagina in cases of inflammation of the uterine organs. Bleeding in the jugular veins is also a most useful operation to effect a local blood-letting in affections of the head, particularly in chil- dren, where leeches applied to the neck are often dangerous, and where the veins of the arm cannot be opened. For a like reason, a “ necklace” of leeches, applied immediately below the chin, has been much recommended by Dr. Veitch, in order to relieve inflamma- tory affections of the head. The beneficial effects of local bleeding may also be observed when an incision is made into an inflamed part. We often find, that extra- ordinary relief is produced by the escape of the blood which flows from an incision made through the inflamed integuments covering an | A lady, the integuments of whose nose, and the adjoining portions of the cheek had become red, and covered with tubercles (acne rosacea), accompanied with a dull, and almost constant pain in the frontal re- gion, was completely relieved by the repeated applica- tion of a single leech to the nasal septum, one of which, according to her own estimation, produced a discharge of no less than half a pint of blood. VOL. I. abscess, and that too under circumstances where the accompanying symptoms would not have indicated the propriety of abstracting blood in any other mode. The beneficial practice of making very free incisions through the integuments in cases of erysipelas is also to be explained on the same principle, and the common practice of laying open sinuses while the adjacent parts are‘in a state of inflamma- tion, owes its good effects entirely to the pro- fuse bleeding which follows the incision. On this point Parry has an observation, the truth of which is receiving constant confirmation, “ that the arteries of an inflamed part, if cut, will bleed longer than others of the same size.” Similar good effects may be observed from the flow of blood which takes place when a free incision is made through the inflamed in- teguments of a finger affected with whitlow, and likewise by dividing the gums during dentition. But independently of relief from the loss of blood, why should we not anticipate as great an alleviation from the discharge of the serum, or sero-coagulable matter effused into the cel- lular tissue of an inflamed part, as from the discharge of the matter, when it has become purulent ? It seems to me a point worthy to be considered, whether in phlegmonous cases it would not be much more advantageous—in many instances of inflammation where there is no rational expectation of preventing suppu- ration—to make a free incision through the inflamed integuments at an early period, and before any pus has been formed. The evacu- ation of the sero-coagulable fluid effused in the cellular tissue, and deposited there pre- viously to its conversion into purulent fluid, along with the profuse discharge of blood from the incision made in the integument, might produce not only great relief from pain, but limit and check the progress of the inflam- mation. A girl had a large inflammatory swelling on the ulnar aspect of the arm, which was ex- tremely hard and painful to the touch, and the integuments were of a bright scarlet colour. Though no fluctuation could be distinguished, I was persuaded that by freely dividing the skin she must be saved a protracted suffering. I, therefore, made a free incision through the middle of the tumour. It bled most profusely, and I could not detect the escape of any puru- lent fluid with the blood. A poultice was ap- plied, the inflammation and pain were almost immediately subdued, and the wound granu- lated and healed rapidly. I have often witnessed beneficial effects from the local bleeding which takes place after operations, though great pains are generally, and often injudiciously, taken to arrest it. I have frequently had occasion to observe the good effects which the loss of even very considerable quantities of blood during opera- tions has in preventing subsequent febrile symptoms and local inflammations. But it may be here noticed, that whatever quantity has been lost during an operation, however 1 i