399 GANGRENE, HOSPITAL. In whatever form hospital gangrene may manifest itself on the original open surface which it attacks, the surrounding integuments are apt, at various periods in its progress over such a surface, to become indurated and inflamed, exhibiting perhaps at first an erysi- pelatous redness, and gradually assuming, in the vicinity of the sore, more and more of a dark red or livid hue. The erysipelatous redness sometimes extends to a great distance, even over a whole limb. This state of the surrounding integuments is exceedingly liable to terminate in gangrene and sphacelus ; and when the dead parts have been thrown off, the enlarged open surface thereby produced, may more or less rapidly become affected with hospital gangrene. Sometimes the lymphatic vessels may be observed in a state of inflammation, extending from the surfaces affected with the disease, to the corresponding glands; and these glands, in their turn, may inflame, swell, and suppu- rate, and the solutions of continuity produced by the bursting or opening of their abscesses, may either heal kjndly, or they may become fresh seats of phagedenic ulceration, and its consequences’. According to Mr. Black- adder, there are two periods in the progress of hospital gangrene, at which the lymphatic vessels and glands are apt to become affected; viz. from the fourth to the sixth day after the morbific matter has had access to the sore ; and again, upon the supervention of what may be termed the secondary inflammation 1 2. The rapidity with which hospital gangrene advances, after it has attacked an open sur- face, is very various, both on different occa- sions of its epidemic prevalence, and in dif- ferent individuals on the same occasion. Where there is little disposition in the con- stitution, or in the parts, to inflammation, the disease is slow in its progress ; where, on the other hand, the inflammatory tendency pre- vails, it goes on very quickly. Dr. Boggie has described the more acute and more chronic forms of the disease respectively under the names of contagious gangrene and gangrenous phagedaena. “ If the climate, season of the year, constitution, and previous habits of the patient,” says Mr. Blackadder, “ have been such as to induce an inflammatory diathesis, the local inflammatory symptoms are more or less acute, as all or only some of these causes have been operative ; but when the habits of the patient, climate, &c. have had an opposite tendency, the local inflammation is very mild, and not unfrequently it might be said to be almost alto- gether wanting. When the disease occurs in a patient of inflammatory diathesis, it generally happens, that from the seventh to the fourteenth day, an attack of acute inflammation supervenes upon the sore ; the slough becomes softer, and of a pulpy consistence; matter of a strong 1 See the following authors, as quoted hy Dr. Thomson in his Lectures on Inflammation : Gillespie, at p.462; Blane, at p. 4C8; Trotter, at p. 470; and ltollo, at p. 472. 3 P. 30, note. and peculiar odour, and of a dirtyish brown grey colour, begins to ooze out at its edges, and becomes daily more copious. The in- flammation gradually subsides, the slough be- comes loosened, and finally detached, leaving the subjacent muscles, bones, fasciae, or liga- ments fairly exposed : but the inflammation which extends to the surrounding integu- ments, and which is evidently of an erysipe- latous nature, where violent, is very apt to terminate in gangrene and sphacelus, in some instances proving rapidly fatal. When the patient is of a debilitated habit, and when other circumstances are unfavourable to the produc- tion of acute inflammation, the slough remains long adhering to the sore, the discharge be- comes very copious, and burrows under the integuments, by which they are deprived of nourishment, and fall into a state of sphace- lus 3.” This course of the disease, the burrow- ing, has been very particularly described by M. Delpeeh4. But even when the disease exhibits a chro- nic tendency in its commencement, it may in its progress change to an acute character. In particular, Mr. Blackadder states that he always observed, that when there had been a considerable bed of new flesh formed, the phagedenic ulceration made comparatively a very slow progress, until the greater part of the new flesh had been destroyed, or until the morbific matter had found immediate access to what may be termed the natural texture of the part affected, after which the disease be- came quickly accelerated. The degree to which hcemorrhagic effusion takes place into the substance, or from the surface, of parts affected with hospital gan- grene, is very various, and modifies very con- siderably the appearance of the disease. In some instances it is to such an extent, as to have induced M. Delpeeh to recognise as a third primary form of this affection, the hce- morrhagic ; though he thinks it may be consi- dered as merely a variety of the pulpy. The affected points are penetrated with blood, and as if ecchymosed. The subjacent parts seem to have furnished blood which has pene- trated the pulpy layer that covers them. At first sight the state of the parts presents the appearance of a haemorrhage that had been suspended by a mass of bloody coagula lodg- ing in the cellular texture. This form of hos- pital gangrene may commence at several sepa- rate points, which gradually approximate to one another. It is in assuming this charac- ter that hospital gangrene comes to wear a considerable resemblance to scorbutic ulcer. Even in cases in which distinct haemorrhage does not occur, a thin bloody sanies is often discharged, which has a very offensive smell; and the pus, which begins to appear during the separation of the slough or mortified part, often continues for days to be reddened by an admixture of blood *. 3 P. 35, 36. * P. 18, seqq. s Thomson, p. 460.