AMPUTATION. 154- Lisfranc's plan ; an external and internal flap.—This able operator, it is said, can com- plete the amputation in the hip-joint, on the dead subject, in ten seconds. He makes use of a long, thick, two-edged knife or catling. The limb being extended, and held, if pos- sible, in a position between adduction and ab- duction. He recognizes, by drawing a per- pendicular line, from the anterior superior spinous process, down the thigh, and another line, half an inch directly inwards towards the pubis, the spot on which he is to commence his incision. Placing the point of the knife on the end of the transverse line, he pushes it perpendicularly downwards, grazing the outside of the head of the bone, until it comes out a few lines lower than the tuberosity of the ischium. It is necessary, as soon as the point of the knife reaches the bone, to incline the handle upwards and outwards, in order to turn its point fair for the tuberosity ; this manoeuvre is facilitated by the surgeon or an assistant’s taking hold of the flesh of the gluteal region, and carrying it, en masse, to- wards himself. As soon as the knife has passed completely through from front to back, the lower edge is inclined outwards and down- wards, cutting about an inch in that direction, until it clears the great trochanter. This division is effected more with a sawing than a cutting motion ; the knife then glides from the bone, obliquely, through the muscles, forming an external flap, four or five inches long. Fig. 49. Fig. 49. Amputation of the thigh at the hip-joint; the external flap has been formed; the head of the bone disarticulated from the acetabulum, and the knife car- ried to the inside of the femur has fallen into the line of incision for fanning the. first flap, and is note form- ing the second flap from the soft parts on the inside of the thigh. An assistant now takes hold of the flesh on the inside of the limb, and draws it towards the opposite thigh ; and the surgeon placing the point of* his knife again in the upper angle of the wound, inclines it slightly inwards, carry- ing the blade a little beneath, and to the in- side of the head of the bone, so as to make it fall into the line of the first incision, and avoid wounding the integuments. He then cuts down the bone to the small trochanter, following this prominence with the edge of the knife ; at this moment he directs one of the assistants to make compression on the fe- moral artery, by seizing the base of this second flap between his fingers and thumb ; and he then terminates the internal incision, leaving the flap of the same length as the ex- ternal one. The vessels are tied, and the head of the bone is disarticulated in the man- ner before described. In Lisfranc’s, and the other plans which resemble it, as to the formation of the internal flap, the facility of effectually compressing the artery in this flap, before the edge of the knife is turned outwards and downwards, is so great, that the preliminary operation of pla- cing a ligature upon it may be safely dispensed with. As soon, however, as the internal flap is formed it may be tied. The flow of blood from the other vessels may be temporarily stopped by the fingers of assistants applied over them. Some surgeons, however, tie the arteries as the operation proceeds. Besides the femoral artery, the obturator artery, branches of the pudendal, ischiatic, and glu- teal arteries will require torsion or ligature. Circular method.—Mr. Abernethy, who ad- vocated as far back as the beginning of the present century, the propriety of compressing the femoral artery against the horizontal branch of the pubis instead of placing a liga- ture upon it before the operation, was the first to propose, in his surgical lectures, the per- forming this amputation by circular incision. He used to make the first incision of the in- teguments a few inches below the articula- tion ; the muscles were divided higher up, at the point to which the skin was retracted, and completely detached from the great and small trochanter. The capsular and the round ligament were then cut, and the limb removed. This method was adopted by Mr. Colles, in the case of the patient upon whom he operated, and by Krimer in his case. Graefe also shows the same preference for the circular method in the amputation of the hip, which he gives generally to amputations in the contiguity. He performs the opera- tion with his large knife, the blade of which is enlarged and rounded off at the end. He thinks this form of knife enables him in cut- ting the muscles, to hollow out the cone better. He divides the soft parts from with- out inwards, or rather from below upwards towards the joint.. He avoids the difficulty which might be felt in disarticulating the head of the femur, by cutting the capsular ligament at the under part, where the brim of the ace- tabulum is imperfect. This difficulty is, how- ever, easily obviated by observing the rule