600 CANCER, ANATOMY OF. in its earliest stage chondroid; the consistence of the substance is then very closely that of cartilage, its section shining, and of blueish- white colour. In perusing the works of French patholo- gists much difficulty is felt in determining to what growths they apply the phrase Lardaceous tissue, or rather the conviction arises that they thus designate all morbid productions of every class possessing an accidental resem- blance to the boiled rind of bacon. Now scirrhus, when infiltrated in the substance of organs, frequently assumes this appearance. In this manner Andral speaks of the tissue of the brain being “ transformed into a lardaceous tissue possessing all the characters of scirrhus.” The term is a useless addition to our already over-loaded nomenclature. Under the title of carcinoma reticu/are Mfil- ler describes that form of scirrhus in which a reticulated appearance of the fibrous intersec- tions is particularly manifest. This condition of the septa announces, according to Muller, other peculiarities in the scirrhous growth. Tumours of this description attain a larger size and have a greater tendency to lobular arrangement than simple scirrhus ; their con- sistence ranges between that of ordinary scirrhus and encephaloid. The greater num- ber of cancers of the female mamma are of this description; Muller has also seen it in the stomach, axillary glands, lip, orbit, an- terior mediastinum, and in small masses on the surface of the heart. So far we can per- ceive nothing really novel in the description of carcinoma reticulare ; its microscopical characters, however, appear peculiar. It con- sists fundamentally of a grey globular matter, embedded in meshes formed of fibrous fasci- culi, which are represented in PI. 11. Fig. 3, as they appear after the removal of the globules. Its globular structure seems the same as in ordinary scirrhus, the globules containing subcells, nuclei, or granules; minute unat- tached granules are occasionally seen in great numbers between the vesicles, the smallest of them endowed with molecular movement. The cell-globules measure '00021 to '00040 of a Paris inch in diameter. The reticulated figures are not formed of enlarged vessels with thickened walls, as is occasionally seen in simple scirrhus, but produced by the inlay- ing of white granules in the grey mass. These granules are not cellular, but appa- rently formed of an accumulation of opaque sub-granules. Their appearance under a mag- nifying power of 450 diameters is shown in PI. II. Fig. 4. They are generally roundish or oval, and from twice to four times as large as the globules of the blood. Their mode of arrangement producing the reticulated figures is shown in PI. II. Fig. 5: they are magnified 100 times and seen by transmitted light. (c.) Colloid. This term, derived from KoWdjSrig (from KoWrj, glue, and clSog, form,') was first applied by Laennec to a hete- rologous product, one of the most strik- ing peculiarities of which consists in the gelatiniform character of its contained ele- ment. A tolerably accurate description of this morbid product was also given in 1816 by Otto, and an illustrative engraving in his “ Beobachtungen ” conveys, though in a rough manner, its characteristic features : the disease, which occurred in the stomach, was described as scirrhus of that organ. The section of a colloid growth presents an appearance, which once seen can scarcely be forgotten. The surface is divided into a vast number of distinct alveoli regularly ar- ranged, of an oval or rounded shape, varying in size from that of a grain of sand to the largest pea. The septa composing the walls of these loculi possess distinctly fibrous cha- racters ; their thickness is pretty uniform throughout, occasionally, however, they are broader in some situations than in others ; in this case the thicker septa may generally be found to give off' productions forming the walls of secondary loculi, and these again others, constituting a tertiary order. The loculi sometimes form shut sacs, in other in- stances communicate with the circumjacent cells ; it is not very unusual to observe alveoli of which the walls seem to have collapsed and coalesced from the removal of the contained matter. In point of consistence a colloid mass, of which the loculi are perfect, usually resembles firm cheese, but may be much harder ; the general colour of the divided sur- face is greenish yellow. The latter is more especially the case with the contained matter, which is, besides, semi-transparent, tenacious, and clammy, and resembles in respect of density, as in other physical properties, soft jelly. It is not easily expressible from the containing loculi, but may be picked out with the point of a scalpel, or removed by ma- ceration. A remarkable character of this structure, so long as the process of destruction has not set in, is, that wherever or in whatever form it be developed, the appearance and properties of its constituent elements are exceedingly uniform in every part of its surface ; the firm- ness, transparency, and other qualities of the tissue are as distinctly marked towards the centre as the periphery of the mass. The peculiar uniformity which sometimes exists in the size of the alveoli is well shown in a figure of the disease as occurring in the cranial bones and pituitary membrane, copied from Cruveilhier’s twenty-first Fasciculus.— (Sec Cancer of the Meninges.) In a specimen of the disease affecting the stomach, we recently noticed the following particulars :—The morbid matter occupied about one-third of the posterior surface of the organ, terminating at about half-an-inch from the pylorus, and formed an irregular globular elevation somewhat more than half- an-inch high (exclusive of the coats of the stomach), two broad, and two and a half wide. Over by far the greater part of its surface, which was irregularly mammillated, and of a greenish yellow tint, the morbid matter was