FRACTURE. 310 ed. p. 197, 1829), but two happened during the process of gestation, and these he is not disposed to attribute to the peculiar disturb- ance of the system which is observed in preg- nancy. Callisen (Syst. Chir. Hodiern. pars 1, § 1313) reports that he has in several cases seen fractures in pregnant women get per- fectly well, though the time required for firm union was a little longer than that ordinarily demanded. Of four cases of fracture which came under the care of Mr. Latta, in the fifth, sixth, and seventh months of pregnancy (two of the thigh, one of the tibia, and one of the fore-arm), all were cured in the ordinary time. (System of Surgery, iii. p. 363.) Mr. Liston (Elements of Surgery, 2nd cd. 1839, p. 686) has often seen fractures in women carrying children unite as speedily and firmly as if the patients had not been in that state, and otherwise in robust health ; but observes, ‘ Profuse uterine or vaginal discharges, or de- termination to particular parts or organs, will certainly retard union. Several of my friends who have observed fractures in this class of patients, have assured me that the injuries have been repaired in the usual period. That however these states do occasionally retard the reparation of fractured bones, there can be no doubt.’ Werner (Richter, quoted from Cooper’s Diet. p. 546, ed. 1838) has published the case of a fractured radius in a pregnant woman, where the cure was appa- rently retarded for a long time by this cir- cumstance, and though the union took place previously to delivery,the callus was not very firm till after that event. Fabricius Hildanus (Opera, 1681, Cent. 5, Obs. 87, and Cent. 6, Obs. 68), Wilson (On the Human Skeleton, p. 214), Ferdinand Hertodius (Ephem. des Cur. de la Nat. Ire annee, Obs. 25, quoted from Bib. Choisie de Med. xxiv. p. 595), have all witnessed cases in which this retardation had taken place. A remarkable and well de- tailed instance of this kind is recorded by Mr. Alanson (Med. Obs. and Inquiries, iv. 1772). It is that of a delicate female, who in the second month of pregnancy met with an oblique fracture of the tibia, which, in spite of a well-directed treatment, had not united when she was delivered at full time (seven months after the accident), but which, as she recovered strength after her confine- ment, began to unite, so that nine weeks after this period she was able to walk about her room with a firm limb. What proves beyond a doubt in this case that the want of union was owing entirely to her pregnant state was, that three months before impregnation she had been very happily and speedily cured of a fractured femur. “ Another well described case, in which a fracture received during pregnancy did not unite till after delivery, was observed by Dr. Bard of New York, and is to be found in the Philosophical Transactions(xlvi. p. 397,1750). In this instance the left fore-arm was frac- tured obliquely in the third month of preg- nancy ; finding the arm continued flexible at the end of seventy-five days, though the ends of the bones were in perfect apposition. Dr. B. applied an apparatus to keep the limb in a good position, and gave encouraging hopes to the patient, that after her labour the economy of nature would be more immediately di- rected to the recovery of the use of her arm. In less than a month after her delivery, the callus was fully formed, and the patient reco- vered the use of her arm. The following case, kindly furnished to me by Dr. Condie of this city, also strikingly shows the influ- ence that may be exerted by a state of preg- nancy upon the consolidation of fractures. S. R. set. 36, on the 13th of October, 1820, being then in the eighth month of her third pregnancy, fell in going up stairs, and frac- tured her right humerus immediately below the insertion of the deltoid muscle. The fractured bone was carefully adjusted within half an hour after the accident, and the pa- tient, being to all appearance in perfect health, a speedy union was anticipated. No union occurring, Dr. Physick saw the patient on the 13th of November, and carefully examined her arm. He remarked, that according to his experience, fractures occurring in preg- nant females often remained ununited until after parturition, when union very generally and rapidly took place, and believed this would be the case with S. R., provided mo- tion at the seat of injury was guarded against. “ On the 27th of November the patient was delivered of a healthy child, rather above the common size, and by the 31st of December the bone had become firmly united. “ Whether the states of pregnancy, or of suckling, have any direct effect in preventing union of the bones, or whether this is only in consequence of the debility which these con- ditions of system often induce, is undeter- mined. I am myself inclined to adopt the latter supposition, and in support of it will adduce the cases reported by Sir Stephen Love Hammick. ‘ I have seen,’observes this author (Practical Remarks on Amputations, Fractures, &c., p. 121), ‘three cases of this sort, one of the leg, in a woman in the first months, who was extremely debilitated from an incessant irritability of stomach, causing her to reject all her food, but as the pregnancy advanced her stomach became tranquil, when on recovering her strength the bone united. Another had a fracture of the humerus in the latter months ; the patient was in a state of great exhaustion ; after her delivery she would persist in nursing the child, which continued her weakness, and it was not till two months after she consented to wean it that the bone united by the vigour of the system having returned. The third was in the last months of pregnancy, and after delivery, not attempt- ing to nurse the infant, she rapidly improved in health, and the limb quickly got well.’ “ That the state of the constitution has con- siderable influence over the process of repa- ration in fractured bones, none can deny— where the lancet has been largely used after the accident,—where patients are much debili- tated,—or are labouring under constitutional