ANUS. 337 deposition of pus, but it is possible to modify the local as well as general activity, to limit the quantity of pus, when once formed, and to i restrict its evil effects ; and, above all, to soothe the irritation which reacts on the cause from which it sprung. General bleeding at the onset; a liberal and often-repeated application of leeches to the parts around the anus and the pubis ; puncturing the haemorrhoidal veins, should any be distended; applications of the hip- bath, supplying, by a tube, hot water, so that when the patient emerges from the bath the water may be hotter than when he was first immersed in it; fomenting the perineum and genitals in the intervals, will frequently re- compense the trouble they occasion by re- storing the integrity of the attacked structure. But even if they do not effect this, they will enable the patient to urinate, to evacuate his bowels by the aid of some unstimulating laxa- tive, without torture ; and, by stimulating the vessels of the skin, blood will be retained at the surface of the body which would other- wise be determined internally. When it is suspected that the first object has failed, and that pus is formed, it is yet competent to the surgeon to keep the action within just bounds, by the occasional and modified use of some of these means, until such time as matter is unequivocally mani- fested, and manual aid demanded. 6. Carbunculous abscess.—The cellular tissue occupying the ischio-rectal spaces, though admirably adapted for the formation and ex- tension of phlegmonous abscesses under ordi- nary circumstances, is not sufficiently organ- ized, in many subjects, to resist a sudden influx of blood ; so that the arterial impulse which, in one person, will merely congest the part preparatory to the formation of abscess, will, in another, destroy the vitality of the structure. External force, or the introduction of a foreign body, will effect this without reference to the tone or atony of the parts ; but, when- i cyer it is idiopathic, it occurs in subjects in whom the vital force is feeble, whether it be from original delicacy of organization, from long-indulged habits of intemperance, or from protracted suffering. When it arises from the first cause, a tumul- tuous action is set up in the system, such as obtains in phlegmonous abscess; and it is therefore necessary, in every case in which the tissues about the rectum are concerned, that an investigation be made, whether exter- nal violence, or the introduction of a foreign body be implicated in its production ; because, to pursue, in these cases, the energetic treat- ment which phlegmonous abscess demands, would speedily reduce the body to that state of atony which prevails in idiopathic carbun- culous abscess. Forewarned that one of these two accidents has occurred, it is advisable to husband the strength of the patient by avoiding unneces- sary depletion ; yet, at the same time, it must VOL. i. be borne in mind, that, if the arterial impulse he not tempered, the tissues adjoining the part which has already been destroyed, will lose their vitality in the same manner, from the inordinate ingress of blood. The extent to which these measures may he carried, and the point at which the surgeon should pause and institute a treatment exactly in opposition to the former, must be entirely a matter of judg- ment, without the exercise of which, all rules, however speciously paraded, will be un- availing. The idiopathic carbunculous abscess gene- rally supervenes on a long-continued illness, in which the body has, either from the wear- ing-out nature of the affection, or the treat- ment pursued, been enfeebled in its powers. When the arterial excitement consequent on accidental carbunculous abscess is allayed, and the devastation arrested, it will be in the same state, and subject to the same manage- ment as the idiopathic, with this difference in favour of the former, that, as there is a greater vital force at the commencement of the disease, there is a greater chance that the plastic operations of nature may prove suc- cessful. The affection is usually limited to one side. The bladder and rectum sustain but little disturbance, when contrasted with the sufferings of which they are the seat in phlegmonous abscess. The tumour has no defined limits, vanishing insensibly into the buttock on one side, and laterally to the rectum on the other. It is quaggy to the touch, to which it communicates but uncer- tain evidences of fluctuation. The skin be- comes livid and assumes an erysipelatous cha- racter ; small orifices appear on it, through which a probe may be passed to almost an indefinite extent, and from which a small quantity of unhealthy pus exudes ; the skin between some of these orifices is absorbed, by which means they coalesce and form larger openings, and thus the interior of the cavity is displayed. This is occupied by a mass re- sembling sodden whity-brown paper, infiltra- ted with pus; and it is this mass which nature has to detach from the living struc- ture. Such carbunculous abscesses appear in other parts of the body, but under more favourable circumstances, inasmuch as there the adjacent structures are vascular, and therefore compe- tent to the speedy absorption of the living surface in contact with the dead mass. In the ischio-rectal space we have fascial walls slenderly vitalized, and in which the action, necessary to disunite them from the gangre- nous contents, is almost sufficient to effect their own destruction. If, in addition to this, we take into account the pressure which is made on the living surface by the binding effects of the skin (a pressure which inevita- bly disorganizes the small vessels distributed on it), we can understand why the amount of labour thrown upon nature is so great, and why the constitution should give way under