GIO CANCER, PHYSIOLOGY OF. rowed the above account, most satisfactorily traceable in colloid. (PI. II. Figs. 6,7.) The cells of this formation contain whole genera- tions of more recent cells within them, which, as in the chorda dorsalis and in cartilage, originate from cytoblasts ; the latter are, on account of their large size, yellow colour, and opacity, easily discernible in the cells of this species of cancer. When the fibrous forma- tion, already referred to in the description of colloid, is developed on the largest cells, the fibres form the bed or stroma for the deposi- tion of cells of younger growth. In carcinoma simplex (scirrhus) and re- ticulare there is often, but not constantly, found, in addition to the appearances de- scribed in the section on the anatomy of these growths, a species of cell containing one or two smaller transparent vesicles w'ith a minute nucleus. Miiller considers it na- tural that these vesicles should not be in- variably met with, as their discovery depends upon the observer’s examining them precisely at the period of their internal development. But he is far from believing that all the cell- globules of these varieties of carcinoma origi- nate in this manner as germinal cells in the interior of others, and subsequently become free by the bursting or dissolution of the mother cells, as occurs in colloid. Their ap- pearance is not, he conceives, sufficiently constant to warrant this view. On the other hand the fact that several minute corpuscules are usually all that is discovered in the cell globules, argues forcibly in favour of the idea that new sub-cells grow as easily and even more easily outside than inside the pre-exist- ing cell-globules ; since these sub-cells are there developed from granules in the same manner as in the interior of pre-existing cells. These granules may become free either through the collapse or dissolution of a larger cell, to which they are attached, and then be developed ; but they may also originate in- dependently of and outside other cells. Here then we have the counterpart of the second mode of normal formation—that exhibited in the growth of the epithelium cells. The microscopical cell-globules of colloid and scirrhus are not, as might be supposed, primarily dissimilar ; the difference in the as- pect of the two growths essentially depends on the different modes of development of these cells. In colloid the mother-cells go on increasing in size, and attain two, three, or more French lines in diameter, the walls of the sub-cells coalesce, and when these fill the mother-cell, become incorporated with its parietes. In scirrhus on the contrary this enlargement and cohesion of the cells do not occur, they are easily separable from each other, and retain persistently their primary condition of microscopical formative globules. The old cells appear to crumble away. In the tumours with caudate corpuscula, these bodies arc clearly formed, according to Miiller, from cells with nuclei; -for he always observed isolated cells, filled more or less distinctly with granular matter, and often provided with a manifest nucleus, associated in the sarn'e tumour with them, and predomi- nating in its non-fibrous parts. Moreover the round cells pass by imperceptible degrees into those with tails, while the latter are transformed into filaments, and form the com- mencement of a fibrous formation. Briefly to recapitulate the results of Mul- ler’s inquiries—he has advanced that cyto- blasts form cells ; that new cells are generated, either inside or outside those of prior exist- ence, from a nucleus or granule; that the cells are under certain circumstances con- verted by flattening and elongation of their extremities into caudate bodies, (PI. I. Fig. 7.) and that these caudate corpuscules when placed in lateral and terminal juxtaposition (PI. I. Fig. 4.) form fibres. Hence by the per- sistent generation of cells the bulk of each growth is sustained and increased. In one species of cancer (reticulare) the fibrous ap- pearance is stated to be produced by inlaying of granular corpuscula, but we do not find the nature and mode of growth of these, and the conditions regulating their fascicular arrange- ment explained. It will be observed that the origin of the cytoblasts is in this theory the unsolved problem ; until this be decided, whatever light Muller’s researches may have thrown on the mode of increase of these products, they have by no means cleared up the history of their origin. The only probable method of discovering the cause and mode of their primitive production—the physical change directly preceding it, namely a minute scru- tiny of the state of the vessels leading to the molecular scat of the disease, has not been pursued by this observer. “ There is nothing peculiar,” he affirms, “ in the condition of the capillary vessels of most tumours, with the exception of those formed of erectile tissue.” He has even omitted the anatomical de- scription of the larger vessels of cancerous growths, on the ground that they do not differ from those of healthy parts ; he says, how- ever, incidentally, that the vessels of scirrhus are sometimes dilated and their walls thick- ened. Had Miiller applied the microscope to the investigation of growths in the earliest stage of development cognizable by that in- strument, instead of merely analysing the ele- ments of tumours—had he traced the process of formation ab ovo, he might possibly have made a nearer approach to clearing up the mystery of their production. From these investigations, however, an im- portant fact apparently derives: the micro- scopical elements of cancerous growths and their mode of propagation are identical with those not only of benignant tumours, but of the normal embryonic tissues. But we cannot agree with Miiller in his inference, that this identity proves carcinoma not to be a hetero- logous formation. As it appears to us, such identity simply shows that the heterolo- gous character, visible and palpable as it is.