ANUS. 317 was soon followed by another, with an equally successful result. M. Ainussat, whose case it was, thus describes it in a communication to the Academy of Sciences. Mrs. B., an English lady residing in Paris, gave birth, on the 6th September, 1835, to a female child. The external parts being well- formed, the real nature of the case was not suspected at first. M. Deneux, who attended the lady, in a note to M. Ainussat, requesting his assistance, describes the case as “ one of occlusion of the large intestines in a new-born infant; the anus being well formed : the rectum communicates with the vagina, and the obstacle appears to be situated high up.” M. Amussat did not see the infant till thirty-four hours after its birth. No meco- nium had been voided, and the nurse stated that the tepid water injected into the anus, returned by the vulva. The child seemed strong, and well proportioned. The abdomen was hard, and swollen. The anus and vulva were, to all appearance, natural. A flexible canula introduced into the anus penetrated to the depth of two inches, and the water in- jected through it, came out immediately by the vulva. A sound, introduced by the vulva into the vagina, struck the canula previously introduced into the anus. “ We were of opinion,” says M. Amussat, “ that the rectum was obturated at the depth of about two inches, and that it communicated with the vagina ; that there existed a species of recto-vaginal fistula, or, in other words, that the septum by which the rectum and vagina are parted, was deficient to a consider- able extent. “ On communicating to the parents that an issue could only be obtained, either by the anus, or by the abdomen, and exposing the dangers and inconveniences attaching to both these operations respectively, they preferred, decidedly, that the attempt shouid be made to make an opening by the natural route, rather than through the abdomen, although we declared to them at the time, that this plan, even if successful, would of necessity leave a communication between the rectum and vagina. It was accordingly decided, that an attempt should be made to discover the interrupted intestine. “ With this view, I proposed dilating the anus with prepared sponge. At four o’clock in the morning, a bit of sponge an inch and a half long, but somewhat smaller than the little finger, was introduced into the anus, and sup- ported by a T bandage. This piece was to be removed at eight o’clock, and another somewhat larger introduced, to remain till twelve, at which hour it was agreed that an operation should be performed, if necessary. “ At eight o’clock, the sponge was withdrawn, it having dilated the anus to such an extent, that I was enabled to introduce the little fin- ger, making it come out again at the vulva ; but higher up it was stopped, as if it had been in a cul de sac. During this exploration, the urine was voided in considerable quantity. Another sponge tent, longer and thicker than the first, was now introduced.” At twelve o’clock, when the consultants, M. M. Deneux, Lebaudy, and Amussat met again, the anus was so much dilated as to per- mit the introduction of the little finger with ease ; the cul de sac and the communication were again recognized. An examination was now made, in order to discover the rectum distended by meconium, and to perforate it. “We were still persuaded that, in doing this, a recto-vaginal fistula was unavoidable. However, in again exploring with the index finger, I discovered at the upper and front part of the cavity, a sort of fungous narrowing, which I at first mistook for the narrowed or obturated point of the intestine. Above and behind, the soft bag, which I imagined to be formed by the rectum, could also be felt. In describing what I felt, I stated that it com- municated the same sensation as if I was touching the effaced and soft neck of a uterus. Each of' us having examined in turn, M. De- neux thought that it was in reality the neck of the uterus, and such it proved to be.” The case, as now established, turned out to be this : the anus, without rectum, opened into the vagina, in which the vulva and anus communicated with each other: and thus there were, strange to say, two openings in the perineum, instead of one, both terminating in the vagina. “ On thus discovering, that I had to deal with an extraordinary malformation, consisting in the absence of the rectum or a part of the rectum, I determined to explore carefully, the entire pelvis, through the walls of the vagina. In feeling with the end of the finger, to the left of the sacro-vertebral angle, through the posterior wall of the vagina, I detected a flattened body, which yielded under the fin- ger. On repeating the examination several times, the sensation was always the same. Reflecting on this circumstance, I became sa- tisfied that what I touched must be the rec- tum ; my colleagues were of the same opinion. The obscurity which hung over the case was now completely dispelled; it was evident that the vagina alone occupied the cavity of the pelvis, and that the extremity of the im- perforate rectum was situated above, behind, and to the left of the sacro-vertebral angle. I now felt, in a manner, relieved from the difficulty which the operative proceeding must present, in so delicate a case, and resolved at once to reduce to practice, the operation which I had long thought of for similar cases. “ Before commencing the operation, we again satisfied ourselves, that the membranous body which we felt, was the termination of the rectum, placed at the height of about two inches from the skin of the perineum. “ The plan I intended to adopt had been sug- gested to me by my failure in two other cases, on which I had operated, in conjunction with my friend, Dr. Roussel, and in which the im- perforate rectum terminated at the distance of one and a half to two inches from the skin of