CALCULUS. 560 the other two kinds. The concretion of in- spissated bile is of a yellow colour, it contains little or no cholesterine, but seems to con- sist almost entirely of the bile reduced to a state of solidity. The gall-stones of oxen, which are in use as a yellow pigment in the arts, seem to be referable to this species of calculus. They consist of the yellow matter of the bile, mixed with minute traces of bile, which may be separated by water. When thus washed, they become tasteless, and are insolu- ble both in water and alcohol. These, however, are by no means all the kinds of biliary calculi that have been encoun- tered. Some, for example, have appeared on analysis to consist almost entirely of carbona- ceous matter, and a few have contained little else than the phosphate and carbonate of lime. Although the physical qualities and chemical composition of gall-stones are per- fectly known, we are altogether unacquainted with the vital conditions under which they are produced. The varieties in the ap- pearance, structure, colour, and chemical composition of the concretions, seem of themselves to indicate that these conditions must be different in different cases, and the analyses which have been made of the bile produced in certain diseased states of the liver, point to alterations in the secreting organ itself, as the efficient cause of the production of bili- ary calculi. Thenard, for instance, found the biie elaborated by a liver which had under- gone the fatty degeneration to be albuminous ; in one case in which this degeneration had occurred to a great degree, the secreted fluid was simply diluted albumen, it had lost every one of its qualities as bile ; and Bizio', in ana- lyzing a quantity of bile where great changes had been produced by disease, discovered more than one entirely new substance in its composition, particularly one which he named Eryt/trngene, from the fine purple colour which it acquired under certain circumstances. The principal component of biliary calculi, choleste- rine, is itself formed in extremely small quan- tity in healthy bile; in the bile of the youth- ful, indeed, it has been sought for in vain by some distinguished chemists, so that its pre- sence may, under any circumstances, be held as an evidence of a pathological condition. Biliary calculi are comparatively rare in the earlier and middle periods of life ; they are, on the contrary, extremely frequent as age creeps on. Women, it is generally agreed, are much more frequently the subject of gall- stones than men, and corpulent persons gene- rally appear to be more liable to them than those of spare habit. Sedentary occupations and confinement within doors, undoubtedly predispose to them ; they are well known to be frequent among the tenants of prisons and workhouses, and Glisson2 long ago remarked, that our domestic animals, our kine and oxen in particular, were much more frequently af- fected with gali-stones in winter than in sum- mer ; and that the first effects of the purging 1 Meinecke, Journ. f. Chemic, 1823, s. 123. 2 Anat. Hcpatis, cap. 7. quality of the new grass, when they were driven out of the house in the spring, was very often to bring away a number of these concre- tions. The depressing passions have also been held to favour their production in a peculiar manner. The symptoms occasioned by calculi con- tained within the biliary ducts and bladder vary greatly in different instances. Sometimes the presence of gall-stones during life has never been suspected, when, after death, they have been found in great numbers, and of large size ; and again, though single, and of no great magnitude, they often prove the cause of most exquisite suffering. Persons who are known to have passed gall-stones, have very generally been observed to complain of some degree of uneasy feeling, of weight and fulness about the right hypochondrium, and deep in the epigastric region, long before they began to suffer from any positive or severe pain in these regions. They have also laboured ha- bitually under occasional weakness of stomach, and torpor of bowels. Sometimes the first symptom that attracts attention, is a deep seated pain in the epigastri um, shooting through to the back, or extending upwards to the right shoulder: this pain is apt to be accompanied with nausea and vomiting; and if the con- junctivae at the same time become suffused with yellow, and the pulse keep quiet, there will be little reason to doubt the presence of biliary calculi. The pain and accompanying symptoms occur of every degree of intensity ; sometimes they are slight ; in other eases most severe. The pain, for the most part, has an intermitting character, but the remissions are of very variable duration, sometimes of con- siderable length ; and again, scarcely exceed- ing a few seconds or minutes, so that some patients have no respite from the torture they endure. The entire attack, too, varies greatly in its duration in different cases. When it is short, the patient soon recovers his wonted health and spirits; the feeling of depression subsides as the evidence of the accompanying jaundice disappears, the blood is freed from the presence of the bile that contaminated it, and speedily all is found precisely as it was before the attack. When this has been of long continuance, however, patients often re- main shattered, and in indifferent health for a very considerable period of time. Occasion- ally gall-stones, even of considerable size, pass along the biliary ducts with very little pain ; they have indeed been repeatedly discovered in the alvine evacuations, where their exist- ence had not once been suspected. Some- times gall-stones make their way out, not by the natural ducts, but by exciting inflamma- tion and ulceration of the gall-bladder and ductus choledochus communis ; they are thus discharged into the, intestines, sometimes un- happily into the cavity of the peritoneum, and sometimes they make their way to the surface, and arc evacuated among the contents of a biliary abscess. It is in these latter circum- stances that biliary calculi become the objects of surgical interference.