754 CEPHALHEMATOMA. these precautions, four, or even more linear streaks may be produced at one time, using for each a fresh iron. In disease of the hip- joint the German surgeons recommend the formation of four or five streaks upon the but- tock, behind the trochanter, parallel to the course of the sciatic nerves ; in disease of the shoulder-joint, four over the articulation ; in that of the knee-joint, one along each side of the patella ; and in that of the spine, one along the spinous processes. The same plan is had recourse to in neuralgia, palsy, and mus- cular relaxation. In order to form an issue, the flat round iron may be applied to the spot for five or ten seconds, making it perforin a slight rotary motion, to prevent the eschar from adhering to the metal. The small anterior surface of the prismatic iron will answer the same pur- pose. In cauterizing about the head, a prac- tice recently recommended in hydrocephalus1, parts covered with pericranium ought to be avoided, or at all events the iron should not be allowed to remain more than a couple of seconds. To suppress hemorrhage we should touch the bleeding point with a conical instrument, at a white heat, for two seconds, withdrawing it immediately after by a movement of rota- tion. Poisoned wounds should be first freely dilated, and then energetically seared through- out their whole extent. Cancerous and other sores of a bad character, as hospital ulcer, must likewise be thoroughly seared. For other adventitious growths, as steatomata, po- lypi, and the like, it is sufficient to penetrate their centre with a trocar heated to whiteness —through warts and ranula a needle may be passed. In order to open the walls of an ab- scess, the cautery ought to be pressed steadily against the most prominent point of the sur- face—should one be inadequate, it must be followed by a second. Here a trocar stilet will be found very appropriate. (Encyclo- piidisches Wbrterbuch der Med. Wiss. article Cauterium.) It deserves attention that the actual cautery disorganizes more speedily and with less irri- tation and pain in proportion as its tempera- ture is elevated. Hence the most active, the least irritant, and the least painful of all, is that at a white heat, while the most painful, the most irritant, and the least powerful, is that at a greyish or brownish red heat. The shade of colour which the heat has imparted to the cautery, is therefore of great import- ance, since it serves to indicate the thermo- metric pitch, and consequently the escharotic intensity. The burnt surface may be treated in the first instance with cold applications. Should the inflammation run high, antiphlogistic mea- sures will be proper. Touching the eschar, according to Mons. Larrey, with liquid am- monia, obviates inflammation, and the forma- tion of matter. If the pain be excessive, and the subject very irritable, some anodyne may be given. Emollient poultices are to be sub- stituted for the cold applications as soon as the slough begins to separate. In the in- stance of hemorrhage, the separation of the eschar is on no account to be accelerated ; hence it ought to be lightly covered with dry lint only, and frequently exposed to the air. Bibliography.—Pouteau, Claude, Memoire sur les avantagos du Cautere Actuel; Melanges de Chirurgie, tom. i. 1760. Rivoli, Aug. Suit’ Uso del Fuoco, con- siderate conic presidio cliirurgico; Osservazioni Pra- tiche. Milano, 1787. Percy, Pyrotechnie cliirurgi- cale pratique, ou Part d’appliquer lc Feu en chirurgie. Metz, 1794. Aulagnier, Recherchcs sur l’Emploi de Feu dans les maladies reputees incurables; a Paris, 1805. Morel, Memoires et Observations sur l’Appli- cation du Feu au traitement des maladies. Paris, 1808. Imhert-Delonnes, A. B. Nouvclles Considera- tions sur lc Cautere Actuel, compare avec les Caus- tiques. Paris, 1812. Valentin L. Memoires et Ob- servations concernant les bons effets du Cautere ac- tuel. Nancy, 1815. Klein, V., Uebcr die Anwcn- dung des gliihenden Eisens. Graefe und Walthcr’s Journal, Bd. iii. p. 605. Derthold, A. A., De Cau- terio Actuali, seu de Igne ut medicamcnto. Gottingen, 1824. (Alexander Ure.) CAUTERY, (Kavrr'iptov, from icaiio, I burn,) any substance employed by the sur- geon for the purpose of burning or disor- ganizing the living parts upon which it is applied. This object is attained in two ways: 1. Instantaneously by the direct application of metallic instruments heated to a red or white heat (the actual cautery). 2. By the application of caustic substances, such as the concentrated acids, or pure alkalis, which act upon the living tissues much in the same way as the concentrated caloric itself, but much more slowly (the potential cautery). Among this class of substances, some are very active, and are called Escharotics, others mild, and are denominated Catheretics. See Caustics. CEPHALHEMATOMA. (From Kifa~ \r),the head, and aiparajpa, a bloody tumour.) This word, which, as appears from its deriva- tion literally, means any collection of blood about the head, was introduced by Naegele 1 in 1822 as a convenient name for the affection commonly known as the “ cranial blood-swell- ing of new-born infants,” and to this it has since been restricted. The tumour thus de- signated is caused by an extravasation of pure blood, and herein, as in almost all its other characters, differs from the ordinary scalp swellings occurring after laborious labour (the cedcme sero-sanguin of the French, and caput succedancum of the German writers) ; in the latter the effused, or rather infiltrated, fluids are in great part serous. Cephalhaematoma is not of such modern discovery as the novelty of its study would lead us to suppose. Certain passages in the writings of early authors show that it had been noticed, and that attempts had been 1 Iltifel.uni's Journal, April, 1840. 1 Vide Keller’s Thesis.