322 FRACTURE. 1839 (Provin. Med. and Surg. Trans., viii.), Mr. James mentions, that having failed in obtaining union of the bones of the upper arm by excision of their ends, in a case where a seton could not have been passed, he had recourse to an external apparatus, which appeared to answer the purpose of giving stability to the limb so well, that he “should feel very reluctant to undertake a severe ope- ration again for this defect, unless on further trial the apparatus was not found to succeed.” Larrey (Clin. Chirurg. iii. p. 461) even goes so far as to recommend in all cases of frac- ture, where the usual means are insufficient to effect consolidation, that they be left to nature. The patients, he says, accustom themselves to this infirmity, of which the effects diminish with time and exercise, and they finish by being able to use the affected limb with the aid of a pasteboard splint to envelope it : three cases of patients are re- lated by him, all of whom, despite the exist- ence of false articulations in the arm, were able to perform the ordinary duties of soldiers. More lately, the same surgeon has exhibited to the Academy of Surgery (Diet, de Mede- cine, xiii. p. 482, 2nd edit.) an invalid affected with a disunited fracture of the femur in its middle, of several years standing, where, although the member was shortened, and the fragments very moveable, the patient by means of a high-heeled shoe made use of his limb without the aid of crutches. Instances have occurred in the leg, where, one of the bones only being broken and remaining disunited, the other has become enlarged to such a degree as to support well the whole weight of the body. A very remarkable example of this sort, in which the tibia remained un- united, while the fibula, which had remained perfect, increased exceedingly in size, and performed the office of the tibia in support- ing the body, is mentioned by Mr. bouth (in the English translation of Otto’s Patholo- gical Anatomy, p. 224), as having been in the museum of St. Thomas’s Hospital; and Sir Astley Cooper, in his work on Fractures and Luxations, figures a case of a similar kind.” (Vide fig. 307.) Such instances are rare. It happens, however, that few examples of false joint occurring in the chief cylindrical bones, fail to become burdensome; and some even excite a spontaneous request from the patient, to have the limb amputated, when all hope of consolidation is lost. The urgency of the case and its difficulties now call for the utmost care in deliberating on the measures most likely to restore the powers of the limb. The following case will serve to demon- strate the untractable characters of certain cases, or at least the great need of sedulous attention, in order to obviate impediments and to insure success. It occurred in the practice of an eminent hospital surgeon. “ Henry Ildrcd, aged 25, a stout mus- cular man, by trade a butcher, who had never had syphilis nor taken mercury, and in fact never remembered a day’s illness, broke his left humerus about its lower third, on the 4th of November, 1839. The limb was at once put up in splints and bandages, which were removed and readjusted every other day for the first fortnight; and after this, once a week for six weeks ; during which time he could occasionally distinctly feel the ends of the bone rub against each other. At the expiration of this time the bones were still ununited, and all treatment was abandoned for four weeks more. “ He then consulted another surgeon, who secured the limb in splints, and kept him in bed for a month, but without avail. “ He next went to Ramsgate, and bathed for six weeks; but this being equally ineffi- cacious, he returned to London in July, 1840. “ Every means that held out any pros- pect of producing union were made use of, but were all equally unattended with be- nefit. After the ordinary methods of perfect apposition, rest, pressure, &c. had met with failure, Mr. — cut down to the separated portions of bone, and attempted, by placing wire around their extremities, to excite peri- osteal inflammation, and so to lead to the desired union. This not succeeding, Mr. — again divided down to the line of fracture, and having exposed the surfaces of the dis- joined portions of bone, removed a thin layer from each by means of a fine saw. On this occasion a portion of substance having a car- tilaginous appearance, apparently muscular tissue, which had become altered by pressure, was found separating the two extremities of the bone, and was removed. This operation having proved unsuccessful, notwithstanding a considerable degree of inflammation was excited, as a dernier resort, a seton was passed between the separated surfaces. This, how- ever, failed equally with the other attempts in producing union, and the man left unre- lieved. At one period in the course of the treatment above mentioned, he was subjected to the influence of mercury, until salivation was produced, but apparently without pro- ducing any effect on the fractured ends of the bone1.” It must be manifest that the management of such cases as the above, few as they happily are in number, is of serious importance, and all the means of relief now require to be reviewed. Friction.—A very ancient method of treat- ment consists in laying hold of each of the two fragments and rubbing them rudely against one another, for the purpose of exciting inflam- mation around them. This method, described by Celsus, has been often employed, and with occasional success, from his time to the pre- sent day. The practice recommended by Mr. Hunter, when the false joint is in the lower extremity, of putting the limb up carefully in splints, and allowing the patient to walk on 1 See Appendix to the last edition of Sir A. Cooper on Dislocations and Fractures.