SI EMPHYSEMA. enunciate some positions, respecting’ the sta- bility of which, on experimental and physical grounds, no doubt can exist. 1. If the lung be perfectly healthy, it collapses the instant an opening is effected in the costal pleura. 2. If both pleurae be opened, death is the almost immediate result, in consequence of the perfect collapse of both lungs, provided the opetiings be kept constantly open. 3. The animal may, on the contrary, be revived by closing or stopping up the wounds in the pleurae. 4. So true is this, that accidental protrusion of the lung (Cruveilhier) or of the diaphragm (Piorry) will, because a sort of plug is thereby formed for the pleural wounds, save the animal from imminent asphyxia. 5. The collapse is as perfect if the opening be of very small size, as if it be of large dimen- sions, provided it be maintained perfectly free : this is a direct consequence of the laws of atmospheric pressure. 6. The greater diffi- culty of maintaining a small than a large open- ing, in a sufficiently patent state to secure constant free communication between the atmosphere and pleural cavity, accounts for the erroneous notion, that the effects of the entry of air depend on the size of the aper- ture : that, for example, to produce the result stated, this must be larger than the opening of the glottis. Another most important point to be borne in mind is, that the elasticity of the lung maintains a constant tendency to a vacuum on the pleural surface of the viscus, the degree of which tendency will be in the direct ratio of the extent of dilatation of the organ : hence, too, pressure cannot subsist between the ap- posed surfaces of the pleura, so long as any share of elasticity is retained by the lung *. 5. Such being the mode of relation existing between the thoracic walls and lungs, the consequences of various modes of injury are readily intelligible. In the first case referred to, that of a fractured rib producing a lace- rated wound of both laminae of the pleura and of the lung, while the integuments remain un- injured, the instant the walls of the chest ex- pand in inspiration, a certain quantity of air escapes through the opening in the lung into the cavity of the pleura : hence the abnormal results of the first inspiration succeeding the injury supposed are—setting aside effusion of blood—a commencement of pneumothorax and of collapse of the lung, with a trifling diminution of the elastic force of that organ. The air effused into the pleura is equally spread over the entire pulmonary surface, in consequence of the aspiration or tendency to 1 It may not be altogether irrelevant to observe, that the principles explained in the text appear in themselves sufficient to disprove the theory of asphyxia maintained by Haller and others, who pre- sumed that the suspension of the pulmonary capillary circulation (which they believed, and the researches of Dr. Kay have proved, to be the primary pheno- menon of that mode of death) depended upon collapse of the lung, and consequent mechanical impediment to the flow of blood through its minute vessels. VOL. II. a vacuum which exists to an cqtial amount at every point of that surface. The succeeding expiration is usually stated to act as follows : The retraction of the lung closes the wound- ed cells, the air effused into the pleura conse- quently finds no vent through them ; but being pressed against the lung by the re- ceding walls of the thorax, is forced through the laceration in the costal pleura into the common cellular substance. This appears partly correct and partly erroneous : the escape of the air from the pleura by the rent through which it entered, is no doubt pro- bably prevented in the manner stated ; but according to one of our postulates, no pres- sure can subsist between the walls of the thorax and the lung, so long as any tendency to a vacuum remains on the surface of that organ ; hence, if any air does find its way during the earliest respirations into the cel- lular membrane, it can only be in eases where the costal and pulmonary pleura are morbidly adherent. No air can certainly be forced through the laceration in the wall of the chest, provided the thoracic organs are healthy, until successive inspirations have accumulated such a quantity of gaseous fluid in the cavity of the pleura, as, aided by atmo- spheric pressure, to reduce the lung to its real volume, and destroy its elasticity : the rapidity with which this is effected, will of course vary with the size and unobstructed state 1 of the wound in the lung. As soon as it is effected, the succeeding expiration forces some of the contents of the pleura through the opening in the parietal portion of that membrane into the common cellular tissue ; in other words, emphysema commences, and continues to increase with each repetition of the act of respiration, so long as any altera- tion in the capacity of the affected side is produced by that act. During each inspira- tion, the expansion of the side creates a tend- ency to a vacuum in the corresponding pleura; the occurrence of such vacuum may be pre- vented by the entry of air, either from the atmosphere or from the cellular membrane : as the aspiration of new air through the wounded lung is more easily effected, than the return of that already effused into the cellular substance, the supply is derived through the former channel, and the succeed- ing expiration disposes of some of it in the manner already described. So long as the air in the pleura continues to find an easy outlet into the subcutaneous tissues, the diaphragm and mediastinum do not suffer any very violent pressure ; but this ceases to be the case the moment the con- tents of that serous sac meet with obstruction in their passage outwards, either in conse- quence of the extreme repletion of the cel- lular membrane, or of the opening in the 1 The importance of this condition is shown distinctly by experimental division of the costal pleura. See Proposition 5, above. In estimating the effects of thoracic wounds of all kinds, it must be constantly borne in mind. G