AMBULANCE. 108 des Augenkrankheiten. Lawrence, W. on Diseases of the Eve. Mackenzie, on the Diseases of the Eye. Richter,'A. G., Medical and Surgical Observations. Translation. Sanson, Amaurose. Dictionnaire de Medecine et de Chirurgie Pratique. Scarpa, Ant. Practical Observations on Diseases of the Eye. Trans- lation. Schumcker, J. L., Vermisclite. Chirurgische Schriften. Travers, It., Synopsis of Diseases of the Eye. Ware, James, on Gutta Serena. Warner, Joseph, A Description of the Human Eye, &c. Weller, Manual of Diseases of the Eye. Translation. (Frederick Tyrrell.) AM BE, (from dpflr), the summit, or pro- jecting point of a rock,) an instrument now ob- solete. It was invented, it is said, by Hippo- crates, for the reduction of luxation of the head of the humerus. It is described and re- presented in Scultetus’s Arment. Chir. It was composed of two pieces of wood, united by a hinge, the one rising vertically from a pedestal, the other extending horizon- tally from their point of union : the latter, which is excavated for the purpose, receives the luxated limb, and straps are used to secure it in this situation. The angle formed by the junction of the two pieces rests in the axilla. By pressing on the horizontal branch, exten- sion is made, while the upper part of it helps to press the head of the humerus into the articular cavity. The inconvenience of this antique machine is, that it does not fix the scapula, and that it presses upon the head of the bone before the extension is sufficient to insure its easy return into the glenoid cavity. (Wm. B. Costello.) AMBLYOPIA. (See Amaurosis.) AMBULANCE, from ambulare, to move about ; denomination given by the French to an establishment in their armies formed for the purpose of affording prompt and efficient means to relieve the sick and wounded in the field. While every branch of the British ser- vice is remarkable for superiority of disci pline and equipments, it has been a matter of surprise that no attention has ever been paid to the formation of an hospital corps. This neglect was sadly felt during the late war. The talents and personal efforts of medical officers are of little avail if they have not proper and sufficient assistance, afforded on the exigencies of the moment in the hurry and tumult of war, but previously formed and organized upon a systematic and liberal plan. Above all things it is necessary that this as- sistance should be independent of the ranks of the army, which are too much thinned by the casualties of the service. A steady non-commissioned officer and well disciplined soldier are too valuable to be de- tached from their regiments, and commanding officers very naturally will endeavour, on such occasions, to get rid of the worthless ; hence are orderlies, generally speaking, the worst description of soldiers. Every duty connected with the service of the sick or wounded should be performed by men trained for this special duty under the military command of their respective officers, but placed at the disposal of the medical department. Such a corps must be considered in two points of view : 1st, as regards the persons of whom it is composed ; 2nd, as regards the objects with which it should be supplied : the former arranged into field companies, with a view to the services they have to perform ; the latter affording means of transport for the wounded, carriage for the necessary field stores and surgical equipments. A field com- pany ought to be attached to every division of the army, and subdivided according to the bri- gades of each division of various arms, each company to be in the proportion of 20 rank and file to 1000 men ; bearers on the most approved plan to be provided in the propor- tion of one to every 100 privates. The means of transport necessary for the corps should consist of two improved light spring waggons for each brigade ; and one long car capable of bearing off eighteen wounded men, nine on each side, to each regiment. Thus a division of 10,000 men, divided into four bri- gades and about fifteen battalions, would take the field with eight spring waggons, fifteen long cars, and 100 bearers. When unem- ployed in the field, these cars might prove highly serviceable for the transport of the. light bedding of each regiment, consisting of twelve palliasses and bolster cases, twenty-four pair of sheets weighing 96lb., to which might be added twelve rugs weighing 88lb. In ad- dition to this conveyance, two light store waggons should be attached to each division, their body divided into compartments, and covered with a tarpauling. These cars should carry the following indispensable articles for the establishment of field hospitals, when most probably the theatre of war cannot afford the necessary means. Four bell-tents, two large camp-kettles, two large tea-kettles, twenty- four tin cans in series, a triangle for suspend- ing kettles, two leather water buckets, two light stretchers for operations, two light fold- ing stools for ditto, forty-eight palliasse cases, forty-eight sheets, forty-eight spare blankets, one set of butchers’ knives and cleavers, four bill-hooks, two spades and girdles, two felling axes, two light hand-saws, four lanthorns, four lamps, packing thread and needles, pins and tape, cord and twine, lint, tow, linen bandages, compresses, rollers, sponges, splints, arm- slings, oil cloths, wax-candles, torches, cotton wicks, with a small supply of groceries, brandy, and wine. Linen for dressings or lint should be furnished abundantly to every ambulance ; and in order that it may occupy but little space, it should be chosen fine, and packed into cases made for the purpose. When kept in large quantities, excluded Irom light or air, it is liable to become mildewed. Lint or linen thus damaged, may often be productive of bad effects on the wounds to which they are applied as dressings ; and even give rise,