388 ARTERIES, TORTUOSITIES OF. number and extent with the age of the indi- vidual, so that in advanced life, scarcely any subject is entirely free from them. Their effect upon the arteries, as we have already stated, is gradually to impair their pliability and elasticity, until they become totally inca- pable of either contracting or expanding. Now, this must affect to a considerable extent, the circulation of the blood within those vessels. The arterial tube has become inert, its surface rough and uneven, and its diameter enlarged. The movement of the blood is thus retarded, and as the force of the heart’s con- traction, instead of being in part spent, as formerly in dilating the large arterial tubes, is now transmitted entire to the smaller ves- sels, the blood is sent into the delicate struc- ture of the remote organs with much greater force. In this way, doubtless, we may explain the augmented impetus of the pulse in persons who have attained a great age, and possibly this cause may contribute not a little to the production of those cerebral haemorrhages so frequent in aged people. In the course of M. Bizot’s researches, he was struck with the fact, that whenever he found a lesion in an artery on one side of the body, the same kind of lesion would in all probability be found at the same point of the corresponding artery of the opposite side. With some exceptions, which might be easily accounted for, this symmetrical development of lesions was so constant, that he does not hesitate to characterize it as an invariable law in morbid anatomy. TORTUOSITIES OF ARTERIES. After the arterial blood is expelled from the heart into the aorta, it continues to circu- late with the same velocity through the ver- tebral arteries and some of those primitive trunks contained within the thoracic and ab- dominal cavities, as that with which it was expelled from the central organ. Afterwards the velocity of the stream of blood undergoes various modifications in different vessels, which is necessary for the performance of the parti- cular function of those organs in which such modifications are observed. Thus different organs are supplied with very different quan- tities of blood in proportion to their bulk, and in some the quantity varies even at different times. In some parts of the body, such as the tendons, the ligaments, and the muscles, they receive only such a quantity of the san- guineous fluid as is necessary for their nutri- tion, whilst the secreting and excreting glands are supplied with a quantity proportioned to the activity of their functions. The quantity of blood necessary for the stomach is different at different periods of the digestive process, and in the organs of generation it varies at different times, increasing or diminishing ac- cording as those organs are called into action. In order to effect these purposes in the circu- lation, the arteries are distributed in a variety of modes. Besides anastomoses, and the dif- ferent angles at which arteries come off from the trunks, the different length of some arte- ries from the point at which they leave the trunk, until they reach the organs to which they are destined ; their different positions in relation to surrounding parts ; the tortuosities or flexures of arteries is another peculiarity by which the momentum of the circulation is modified in certain organs. The tortuosities of arteries have been generally supposed to have the effect of diminishing the velocity of the blood which is sent to particular organs, and though the serpentine course of an artery will, to a certain degree diminish the momen- tum of the blood, yet if the arterial canal be kept constantly full, the motion communicated to the blood by every contraction of the heart will be as great at the extremity of the tube as at its origin, except only an almost incalcu- lable degree of loss caused by the increased friction of the blood, on the sides of the arte- rial tube, from the length of the windings of the canal. The impulse therefore which the central organ of the circulation communicates to the blood sent to any particular organ, must not be estimated according to the course or direction of the vessels which carry the blood, and the tortuosities observed in particular ar- teries, must therefore be intended to perform an office different from that of merely dimi- nishing the velocity of the current of the blood. In order to ascertain what may be the effect of a serpentine course of an artery, we should enquire into the functions of those organs which are supplied with tortuous ves- sels. Some rectilineal arteries become tor- tuous when they are much distended, as may be observed after an artery is obliterated ; in which case the collateral branches, besides increasing in size, also become more or less tortuous, or when an artery in the dead body is forcibly injected with a fluid, it in like manner becomes tortuous. The arteries of the uterus have numerous flexures, which increase in proportion with the growth of the uterus during gestation. “ They increase in size and in length before they reach the uterus, which obliges the spermatic artery in particular to be thrown into a ser- pentine form. This is more remarkable in some animals than in women.” ( Hunter)— In all these different cases of tortuosities of arteries, it appears probable that the flexures in the vessels are only the necessary conse- quence of its elongation ; and their elongation being caused by the new growth of the part which the artery supplied, and not for any purpose of modifying the velocity of the blood. In a like manner may wre account for the serpentine course of the spermatic arte- ries, their tortuosities being occasioned by the testis descending and elongating the artery. There are also tortuosities in vessels which are distributed to parts subject to alteration in their position, and to organs which are liable to great distension. We have an example of the first condition in the face and lips—in those of the iris, intes- tinal canals, and likewise in the curvatures of