192 ANATOMY, MORBID. under such circumstances, not being a re- union of the divided mouths, or a regenera- tion of the portion of the canal which was cut away, but the enlargement of an adjacent inosculating branch. It ought to be observed, that however rapid- ly such a change may take place, when such small vessels as those of the cornea are di- vided, or a portion of them removed, a much longer period is necessary for one inosculating vessel adjacent to the obliterated trunk to undergo such an increase of its calibre, and attain such a size as to be the chief means of carrying on the circulation. When the circula- tion is suddenly cut off in the main trunk, all the anastomosing branches bear a part in carrying blood to the organs or parts thus deprived of their supply. The contributions of all are re- quired in the first instance. This service is, how- ever, but temporary. After the lapse of some time, one or more of these vessels becomes per- manently enlarged, through which the circula- tion is continued, while the inordinate function of the others being now no longer necessary, they shrink to their primitive size. We may, therefore, conclude from the phenomena which are observed to take place in the branches of the external carotid artery, when a ligature has been placed upon the common trunk of the carotid at the opposite side of the neck, that there is not only an immediate change in the inosculating vessels, but that they at first all participate, every one being employed to supply to the member its defective quantity of blood, whilst it is only after the lapse of many months that one of the inosculating vessels performs, almost entirely, the office for which numerous branches were at first employed. (James War dr op). ANATOMY, MORBID. Morbid ana- tomy, or pathological anatomy, comprises that division of the science of anatomy which treats of deviations from the normal or healthy state which the bodies of animals in general, and of man in particular, may exhibit as a whole, or in any of their parts or organs, as the result either of original malformation, or of disease or accident. Although it is obvious that so comprehen- sive a subject must furnish abundant materials for separate and distinct consideration, yet it may very naturally be supposed that most, if not all these objects are so closely connected with those of the general and special ana- tomist, as well as with those to be treated of under the heads of surgery and medicine, that a distinct article must involve needless repe- tition. An author who is engaged with the description of the features and treatment of a medical or surgical disease, must unquestion- ably find himself compelled to treat of the morbid anatomy of that particular subject. It is not, therefore, the object of the present article to interfere with, or supersede those pathological descriptions, which must be scat- tered through, and inseparably interwoven with the individual articles in the Cyclopaedia of Surgery. The distinct consideration of the subjects presented by pathological ana- tomy, as a whole, will not only render those scattered descriptions more intelligible, and consequently more easily retained in the memory ; but it may be regarded as essential to the setting forth of the analogy or similar- ity between the derangements of different parts and textures of the body. It will also show that in the disturbed ope- rations of organic life, which give rise tc the almost innumerable irregularities which pre- sent themselves to our view, there is, never- theless, an order and regularity in these very aberrations, and that they lose much of their apparent intricacy when we obtain the clue or key. The deviations from the healthy or normal condition of the human body, or its parts, although admitting of almost endless varieties, may, notwithstanding, be arranged in two distinct groups,—the one comprising those deviations which consist of perversion in size, proportion, form, number, or situation, inter- ruptions of continuity, and in short, whatever change simply requires the accurate know- ledge of the minute special anatomist for its detection. The other group of deviations comprehends whatever changes may be brought about in the intimate tissues or structures of which the various parts of the body are com- posed. It comprehends a class of phenomena which require for their perception and appre- ciation a thorough acquaintance with the too much neglected department of general ana- tomy. Although we have here two essentially distinct modes of deviation, yet we shall ne- cessarily find in practice that these modes are continually blended together in the same cases. The organ which has become so en- larged as to attract attention by its dimensions, and occasion the displacement of other organs, which the descriptive anatomist will minutely detail, will almost invariably be found to pre- sent, throughout the whole or a part of its increased bulk, some more or less striking deviation from the healthy arrangement of its particles, which cannot fail to suggest a query as to the nature of the change of composition which has taken place. The general ana- tomist, to whose department this question would seem to belong, may recognise a struc- ture with which he was acquainted, but which special anatomy will inform him does not naturally belong to the part of the body in which it may have been found, or, at least, to the extent in which it has occurred. Thus, he may find that the mass on which he is called to pronounce an opinion, consists of bony matter, which does not, in the healthy state, exist in the part of the body in which it has been discovered ; or it may be a mass of fat, which, though it may present very much the character of healthy adipose substance, is irregular or morbid as furnished by a part in which it ought not to have existed. But the general anatomist will not always recognise a structure with which he is acquainted; and special anatomy may inform him that the