421 ASPHYXIA. “ Some travellers who have ascended very high mountains have suffered much from rarity of the atmosphere near their summits. They have been unable to walk more than a few yards without stopping to take breath, and feeling extreme fatigue. This breathlessness has sometimes been accompanied by haemor- rhage from the lungs, sudden exhaustion of the muscular power, and fainting. These alarming symptoms are produced by the want of a sufficient supply of oxygen to the lungs, whilst at the same time the pressure of the atmosphere on the capillary vessels is di- minished.” ( Kay, on Asphyxia.) When such symptoms as those experienced by Saussure and others occur, they are much more likely to arise from excessive fatigue ope- rating on a body unaccustomed to it, and admit of explanation on the principles of the musculo- cardiac and pulmo-cardiac functions '.In reach- ing those elevated situations the muscles are constantly and unusually exercised, and the quantity of arterial and venous blood within the cavities of the heart is, in consequence, in- creased, and hence “ the pulse becomes quick- ened.” The pulmo-cardiac function, by which the lungs regulate the supply of blood to the heart, so as to prevent congestion within the heart’s cavities, is also more energetically called upon; and hence “ the respiration becomes la- borious and panting.” In the balloon ascents which took place last year at the Vauxhall Gar- dens, individuals reached elevations greater than any already mentioned, without expe- riencing the least inconvenience; but the ascents to Mont-Blanc, &c., were accomplish- ed by great muscular efforts, that in the bal- loon by none. The gases which may be respired, and which cause asphyxia by their presence excluding the necessary supply of oxygen, are hydrogen and nitrogen, being of themselves otherwise unin- jurious. The gases which are incapable of being respired in their pure state, and which asphyxiate by producing spasm of the glottis, are sulphurous acid gas, muriatic acid gas, nitrous acid gas, nitric oxide, ammoniacal gas, and chlorine. When these gases, however, are much diluted they may be respired ; but they produce inflammation of the fauces and air-passages, or destroy life by acting on the texture of the lungs. Carbonic acid gas being the constant source of fatal accidents will be considered when treating of the varieties of asphyxia. Physiologists are not quite agreed as to its mode of action ; some supposing it to be a positive poison, and others, simply an as- phyxiating gas. The poisoning gases, such as sulphuretted hydrogen, carburetted hydro- gen, See., produce none of the symptoms of asphyxia. They act as poisons, and are re- ceived into the system in the same manner as the vapours of arsenic or hydrocyanic acid, when respired. There .are other gases also which are capable of being respired, but which do not asphyxi- 1 Wardrop on Diseases of the Heart. Lib. cit. ate, such as pure oxygen, and nitrous oxide. These, when they destroy life, kill by excite- ment, and consequently do not fall under our consideration at present. GENERAL PHENOMENA OE ASPHYXIA. When respiration is completely arrested for even a very short time, alarming symptoms supervene, and the effects are so speedily fatal, that it is difficult to note, with any degree of accuracy, their order of succession. The general phenomena, moreover, vary according as the quantity of oxygen in the respired medium is diminished, or is totally withdrawn. Some differences are also observed according to the means by which the supply is cut off. In all cases of asphyxia certain general symptoms present themselves to us, and cer- tain general appearances are revealed by the post-mortem examinations of bodies which have suffered death in this way. When the access of oxygen is in any way prevented, the first effect perceived is an in- tense feeling of distress referred to the lungs ; this is accompanied by a great desire to breathe, and by convulsive efforts of all the inspiratory muscles to expand the chest. This sensation becomes more and more insupport- able ; the animal gasps and makes use of all its efforts to gain a supply of atmospheric air, and the entire frame becomes agitated. These symptoms continue but for a short period be- fore they are accompanied by vertigo and cerebral oppression, quickly followed by a torpor, which deprives the sufferer of all con- sciousness. Irregular and involuntary convul- sive movements are exhibited in all the mus- cles ; the face, and particularly the lips and eyelids, become livid and swollen ; the eyes are suffused, and the surface generally be- comes more dusky than the natural hue ; the pulse is rapidly weakened, and soon ceases; the heart continues for a time feebly to propel the last scanty tide of black blood into the larger arteries ; in a few moments its move- ments consist only of irregular contractions, until, at length, its action totally ceases, and all circulation is arrested. If asphyxia be in- duced slowly, the sufferings just enumerated are more protracted, and are accompanied with dizziness, singing in the ears, and con- fused vision. Post-mortem appearances.—When the body is examined after death, its external surface exhibits a general lividity, from the imper- fectly oxidized condition of the blood which is contained in the capillary vessels of the skin. The appearance of the countenance presents much variety ; in some cases the eyes are distended and prominent, the pupils are dilated, and the features present an expression indicative of pain; whilst, in others, the fea- tures are calm and placid, and no swollen appearance of any part is presented. These differences of appearance exhibited in the countenances of individuals who have died from asphyxia induced by opposite causes, will account for some writers supposing the de-