AMAUROSIS. .106 vation proved the connection of these diseases with general constitutional disturbance, or with irritation or disorder in some other im- ortant organ, as the stomach, &c.; hence ave arisen the divisions into the plethoric, that from debility, the sympathetic, the symp- tomatic, &c., as employed by Richter, and others. More modern authors have continued to use these terms, and have added others, but in their arrangement of the subject, its divi- sions, and subdivisions, no two hardly agree : perhaps no better proof could be advanced of the difficulty and imperfection of the sub- ject. More has been elicited during the last half- century respecting ophthalmic diseases gene- rally, than during centuries preceding, from the circumstance of their having been inves- tigated on scientific principles ; we are espe- cially indebted to our professional brethren in Germany for their labours in this department, which have excited a similar spirit here and elsewhere, and which cannot fail to be highly advantageous to this branch of medicine. In my humble opinion, however, our foreign friends have, in some respects, rather increased the difficulties of this and other subjects, by the numerous minute divisions they have in- stituted. It is certainly important in forming our diagnosis and plan of treatment, that we should be acquainted, not only with the direct, but also, in many cases, with the remote cause of the disease, as it now and then oc- casions some peculiarity in the case, and modification of treatment. When we find, however, that many various causes create a similar morbid action, which requires a uni- form plan of treatment, I conceive that no practical good can result from a separation or division of such cases—but the contrary. I allude to the divisions, or rather subdivi- sions of Beer, Jiingken, and other German authors, and which have been adopted, in many instances, by some English writers on the subject; and in which several causes that create similar morbid action, and produce amaurosis of like character, are treated of as distinct or separate diseases : for example, sup- pression of secretion or discharge, or of cuta- neous eruption, may, and often does, produce great disturbance in the circulation, with irre- gular determination of blood, from which some one part or organ more especially suffers,—it may be an abdominal or thoracic viscus, or it may be the brain or the eye, and in either of the latter instances an amaurosis may be pro- duced ; but the local disease presents no par- ticular symptoms, or is not specially modified by the remote cause ; it has the same charac- ter, whether it be the result of suppressed perspiration, suppressed lactation, suppressed catamenia, suppressed diarrhoea, suppressed haemorrhoidal discharge, suppressed suppura- tion, suppressed cutaneous disease, &c. &c. The direct or immediate cause of the amau- rosis is the same in all, viz., a morbid action existing in the brain, or in the eye itsclt: there ought not then, in my opinion, to be any division of such cases. In my observations upon this subject gene- rally, I have remarked the following circum- stances, some of which have been previously noted by others. That amaurosis from organic disease, with- out violence, of the retina, generally attacks the eye with dark-coloured iris ; that it affects females more frequently than males ; that it seldom confines its ravages to one eye ; that it occurs in elderly persons, and that there is often hereditary disposition to it. That amaurosis from disease in the choroid coat occurs most frequently in persons with light-coloured irides, of feeble power, espe- cially in those of scrofulous diathesis, and that it appears during the early period of life. That all occupations which require con- tinued application of vision to minute objects, and especially such as are altogether seden- tary, tend to promote congestive and organic amaurosis. That I have never been able to trace the disease to the influence of stimulating or irri- tating vapour or gas on the organ. That I have seen a congestive form of the disease of metastatic character in gouty and rheumatic persons, but it is extremely rare. It will, doubtless, be remarked during the perusal of this paper, that I have not referred to any other opinions. I have purposely avoided it, considering that a full acknow- ledgment in this place of my having derived much valuable information from the works of the authors I shall name would be sufficient ; honesty and justice compel me also to offer my warmest thanks to Dr. Farre, for his libe- rality and kindness in freely giving me, at all times, the result of his extensive experience, and his close observation, during nearly twenty years in which we have been colleagues. Of feigned blindness.—Amaurosis is a disease which is very often feigned, and much diffi- culty occurs in some cases in detecting the attempt at imposition. In all these cases both eyes are said to be affected, though per- haps one is described as most defective, for the purpose intended by the feigner would rarely be answered unless all useful vision were supposed to be lost. Further the eyes have generally a perfectly healthy character in appearance, in action of irides, and in feel of the globes, unless the party be acquainted with the effect of belladonna, or some other of the narcotics which produce a similar effect, and has employed some previously to produce a dilatation of the pupils ; this much increases the difficulty of detecting the imposture. The classes of persons who feign in this way are children, and apprentices to get relief from tasks or work, or the latter to get free from an employment they dislike ; soldiers and sailors to obtain remission of duty ; mem- bers of benefit clubs or societies, in which liberal assistance is afforded to sick members. Now and then I see a case in which I cannot detect any reason for the attempt to impose.