AMPUTATION. 156 sweep. In forming the flap, we should be very careful to have it of the proper size. Delpech used to ascertain the proper length of the flap, by measuring it against the arti- cular head which it was destined to cover, before he completely cut it. This operation may also be performed by passing the bistouri flat, from side to side, through the soft parts in front of the joint, on the palmar surface ; then lifting up the flap, laying open the joint, and completing the division by carrying the knife out at the dorsal side. With a single dorsal flap.—In forming the flap from the dorsal integument, the first process above described is reversed. The phalanx to be removed is presented in supi- nation ; the skin being retracted by an assist- ant, is divided transversely about a line or two in front of the palmar fold of the joint ; the sheath, tendons, and articular ligaments are next divided, and a semicircular flap is formed from the skin of the phalanx which is to be removed. In the former plan, the cicatrix being on the back of the finger is more exposed ; but to compensate for this disadvantage, the flap cut from the palmar surface is thicker and protects better. The dorsal flap, in general, is only had recourse to where the palmar soft parts have been too much damaged to make a good covering for the end of the bone. In forming the palmar flap, the tendon, owing to the obliquity of its section is liable to protrude beyond the skin. In such a case, the pro- truding portion must be removed ; and, for this purpose, it will be best to employ strong clean cutting scissors. With a palmar and dorsal flap.—The pha- lanx to be removed is presented bent and in ronation. An assistant, holding the hand, eeps the other fingers strongly bent out of Fig. 10. Fig. 10 represents the amputation of a finger with a double flap, palmar, and. dorsal. It has also been made subservient to the illustration of the amputation of a finger from the hand, the subject treated of in the following section. the way of the knife. The surgeon takes hold of the end of the finger, and determining the situation of the joint, which will be about a line below the sort of knee formed by its bend, he cuts with a narrow -bistouri, a semi- circular flap, between three and four lines in length, with its convexity towards the nail, proceeding from one side of the joint to the other ; this flap, which is almost entirely skin, being raised as far as the joint, and upheld by an assistant, the joint is laid open, and its liga- ments divided in the manner already de- scribed. As soon as the articulation is quite gone through, another semicircular flap of the same or greater length, is formed from the phalanx to be removed, by carrying the edge of the bistouri obliquely from the under sur- * face of the bone to the skin. The haemorrhage is trifling and soon ceases, either spontaneously or by compression. The flaps brought into contact, by straps of diachy- lon, or isinglass plaster, one or two small com- presses may also be applied to protect the stump, which should be kept cool; and the arm should be worn in a sling. amputation or a single finger at the METACARPO-DIGITAL ARTICULATION. The form of the knuckle-joint is an enar- throsis, with loose ligaments. Owing to this disposition, the situation of the joint can be at once made visible by drawing on the finger. The space made between the two articular heads of the bones, if the phalanx be now bent, will disappear, becoming occupied by the rounded extremity of the metacarpal bone. In the healthy state, the articulation will be found about an inch, or somewhat less, above the commissures of the fingers, the prolonga- tion of the soft parts here forming a sort of web. The flap and oval methods are best suited to this amputation. Flap method.—The hand in pronation, one or two assistants support and remove the sound fingers out of the way of injury ; the surgeon takes hold of the finger to be ampu- tated, and ascertains in the manner described above, or by moving it, the precise situation of the joint. With a straight bistouri he commences his incision from a point three or four lines behind the joint, directing it to- wards the centre of the commissure, which it divides, and is then continued in the same di- rection in the palm of the hand, till it nearly reaches its transverse fold, beyond the joint. This incision divides the skin and cellular tissue. The edge of the bistouri now divides the rest of the soft parts in a direction from before backwards, to the articulation. The edge is then turned to the side of the joint, which it lays open, and traverses to the oppo- site side, dividing both the flexor and exten- sor tendons. This step is facilitated by carry- ing the finger in a direction opposite to that on which the incision has been made ; while the assistant must be careful to keep the skin retracted towards the wrist. The correspond- ing flap is then formed on the opposite side,