CANCER. 689 be thus constituted. Tuberiform encephaloid is the condition most commonly assumed by the disease, and here are exhibited the nume- rous varieties in point of vascularity, &c. else- where observed. The surface of the tumour may be smooth, especially before destruction of the mucous coat, irregularly tuberous or botryoidal; and the mass broad-based or pe- dunculated, studded with or encrusted with calculous substance,—or carcinomatous matter may, as in a case quoted from Ledran by Civi- ale, insinuate itself between the superficial as- perities of a calculus. The most common seat of cancer is the neck and its vicinity ; it also springs from the fundus and anterior or posterior surfaces, but has very rarely been observed on the lateral aspects of the organ. The growth in some instances occupies a very considerable extent of surface; or cauliflower fungous masses, spreading from a narrow basis, may acquire great bulk (of both clenched hands in De- sault’s case), and almost completely fill the cavity of the viscus. The submucous cellu- lar tunic is commonly the original nidus of the disease. There may be only a single or seve- ral tumours. The mode of progress of the morbid growth is the same as in the other hollow viscera, but it is slow in ulcerating ; a fact which has mainly served to keep alive the notion respecting the rarity of vesical cancer, already adverted to. The bladder itself is sometimes contracted, in other instances en- larged ; its walls are commonly hypertrophous and exhibit the well-known columnar appear- ance ; the mucous membrane is besides in- jected, thickened, mammillated, and softened— characteristics of cystitis. The prostate may be perfectly healthy ; it was so in Lallemand’s case, though immediately contiguous to the diseased formation. Abscesses in the cellular membrane of the adjacent parts sometimes hasten the patient’s destruction. Subjects affected with vesical cancer suffer from frequent inclination to void their urine, which may be passed in a small stream, or even gutlatim, and from an uneasy sensation usually referred to the neck of the bladder, increasing after urine has been passed, occasionally be- coming exceedingly severe, and shooting to the perinaeum and along the urethra to the glans. In the cases observed by Desault and Lallemand there w'as fixed lancinating pain in the hypogastrium; while Chopart’s patient referred his sufferings more particularly to the rectum. It is obvious that the effects of these growths on the excretion of the urine must vary with their precise dimensions and site : if seated close to the orifices of the ureters they may press on and dilate these ducts by causing an accumulation of urine within them (a state attended with almost complete reten- tion), and give rise to pain and other symp- toms of irritation in the kidneys; if the internal orifice of the urethra be partially obstructed, the urine is passed (and this is the more ordinary case) in the manner above described ; if coin- voi.. i. pletely, either from the growing size of the tumour, or separation of pulpy detritus or clots of blood, temporary or persistent reten- tion may arise ; or if the growth be peduncu- lated and therefore partially moveable, a full stream may be suddenly and repeatedly ar- rested (as in a case observed by Velpeau1), before the contents of the bladder are on each occasion completely evacuated. The urine is usually turbid, and often contains that ropy matter commonly described as “catarrhal” or mucous, but which is now known to be pus modified in character by the action of ammonia2. Haematuria, in some cases constant, in others of rare occur- rence, occasionally hastens the patient’s death by its violence and pertinacity. Here, as in other organs, discharge of blood may be the first symptom of carcinoma ; it has been observed by Sir B. Brodie before pain or micturition had been complained of. The same experienced surgeon states, that “ the blood comes awray in large clots of an irregular shape, in which small portions of medullary substance are not unfrequently developedThe growth may, as in two cases observed by Civiale, produce a distinct tumour in the hypogastrium. In one of these the cancerous disease coexisted with calculus, and as the former appeared “ of inconsiderable size and stationary,” it was believed to depend on thickening of the walls of the bladder ; the patient underwent litho- tomy and died : a cancerous mass sprang from the posterior aspect of the viscus. In the other instance, the presence of an irre- gularly rounded tuberous mass in the hypo- gastrium, combined with other local and general signs of cancerous disease, left no doubt as to the nature of the affection : the tumour, originating at the anterior surface of the viscus, had destroyed that portion of its walls, and contracted adhesions wdth the abdominal parietes. The destruction has in other instances gone further, the fungous mass protruding at the groin or pubis, or perforating the walls of the colon. The neighbouring parts are irritated by the pre- sence of the foreign body, and defecation is frequently and with difficulty performed : where the growth has attained considerable bulk, it may, by pressing on the gut, entail obstinate constipation. The existence of a fungous carcinoma in the bladder predis- poses, as all other causes interfering with the free excretion of the urine, to the for- mation of calculi. Sir B. Brodie has known the disease run its course in eight or ten months, and seen it protracted during seven or eight years. Lallemand is of opinion that “ lancinating pain behind the pubis, and emission of morsels of rotten fleshy matter” are the only sym- ptoms by which cancer of the bladder may be 1 Medecinc Operat. t. iii. p. 696. 2 See Blit. & For. Med. Rev. vol. viii. pp. 130 and 148. Y v