ANEURISM. *14 isin, and a fourth would not give a decided opinion. The patient followed Valsalva’s sys- tem of treatment, and got well, though no circumstance subsequently occurred by which the precise nature of the tumour could be distinguished. The signs presented by an aneurism situated within any of the great cavities, are generally very obscure, until it has attained a consider- able size, and then the symptoms depend on the effects of the compression of the tumour on the surrounding organs. Thus, an aneur- ism within the cranium will cause a disturb- ance in the function of the brain; or within the chest, will influence the respiratory organs; and in the abdomen it will pro- duce more or less derangement of the diges- tive apparatus. The indistinct pulsation which may be de- tected in the thorax and abdomen may be referred to other causes. In the thorax it may arise from an affection of the heart, and in the abdomen from a derangement in the digestive apparatus, causing an increase in the circulation. Thus the diagnosis of aneurism within the great cavities is very obscure, whilst they remain within those cavities; but when they have made such progress as to appear externally, after destroying the soft parietes of those cavities, or the bones which oppose their developement, then their true nature is no longer concealed. A true aneurism has often been confounded with the dilatation of a vessel, and it is of im- portance to distinguish these two very dif- ferent conditions of an artery, not only be- cause their anatomical characters are essen- tially different, but the mode of treatment applicable to the one disease is not necessary for the other. When an artery is preternaturally dilated the enlargement is not limited, as in aneurism, to a particular portion of the vessel, but its whole circumference is augmented, though not to an equal degree in every part; and in place of the tunics of the artery being thick- ened, they are thinner than natural—each of of them is equally dilated, and there is no coagulable lymph or fibrine effused on their internal surface. The portion of the artery thus dilated has indeed more the appear- ance of a vein than of an artery—particularly a portion of vein which has been repeatedly punctured in the operation of phlebotomy, the coats being condensed and assimilated toge- ther in such a manner, as to render them not easily separable from one another. The cir- cumstance of a dilated artery not being lined with a fibrinous concretion forms a striking difference between this pathological condition of an artery and a true aneurism ; for whilst the sac of an aneurism is protected, and its rupture prevented, by the additional thick- ness which it receives from the effusion of fibrine, the circumstance of the economy not having recourse to the same means of protec- tion in cases of simple dilatation, ought to be considered as an incontrovertible proof of an essential difference in the condition of an aneurismal artery from that of a vessel wherein there is simply dilatation. Dilatation is most frequently observed in the aorta, but it is usually accompanied in that vessel by a diseased state of the coats, similar to that which precedes or accompanies aneuris- mal swellings ; but the simple dilatation of an artery happens, I believe, most frequently in the innominata, subclavian, and carotid arte- ries, and it usually takes place where the ves- sels divide. In these arteries, the dilatation is apt to be mistaken for aneurism—a mistake which I have known to be made, and which I have myself once committed. The dilatation of an artery can, however, p- be readily distinguished from an external aneurism, from the great thinness of the parietes of the whole tumour, compared with that of an aneurism, from its form being more elliptical than globular, from its slow growth and often stationary character, and also from its never bursting or acquiring the volume of an aneurism. It ought also to be observed, that the two diseases, dila- tation and aneurism, may both exist at the same time, and that the coats of a di- lated artery may give way and form an aneurism, as has been stated in another place. Fig. G'2 represents a portion of the femoral a Hery dila- ted, in which is also two aneurismal swellings, {aa) is the arterial tube ; (b)is the internal membrane of the vessel dilated, separating and progressing through amongst the fibres of the middle coat; (c c) the circu- lar fibres of the middle coat, some of which are sepa- rated so as to permit the internal coat to form a sort of hernia; (d,d,d,) different portions of cellular coat di- vided to show the internal structures, (Breschei). Prognosis.—Aneurism, in whatever part of the arterial system it may occur, always con- stitutes a disease of a serious character, the degree of danger depending on the size of the affected vessel, the state of the arterial system generally, the manner in which it appears to have been produced, the part of the body in which the diseased vessel is situated, and the age and general health of the individual. If the formation of the tumour cannot be attributed to any injury or severe bodily exertion, but has come forward in a very gradual manner, the danger is greatest; for then, in all probability, the aneurism is connected with a more ex- tensive affection, not only of the aneurismal artery, but perhaps of the whole arterial sys- tem. It was remarked, when speaking of the condition of an artery where an aneurismal tumour existed, that the coats of the vessel were almost in every case diseased previously to the formation of the aneurismal tumour ; it will, therefore, sometimes happen that the disease of the coats will also exist at the very