124 ENCEPHALOCELE. form is either spherical, oval, or cylindrical. Encephalocele passes by insensible gradations towards monstrosity ; for when the brain alone forms a very large tumour, it is a deadly malformation which, as M. Ferrand justly ob- serves, can no more be considered as ence- phalocele, than could eventration be con- founded with ordinary intestinal hernia. The vertebral canal is often more or less modified ; the spinal column bifid, sometimes in the neck, back, or loins, more rarely through- out its whole extent. The medulla spinalis may be unaltered, but it is often atrophied throughout, and covered with layers of false membrane placed in the subarachnoid tissue. In some cases it has been replaced by a reddish cellular tissue infiltrated with a serous fluid. It is frequently soft and injected. Symptoms, progress, and complications.— Encephalocele is usually observed as a soft circumscribed tumour, covered by the inte- guments ot the head, which are usually des- titute of hair, and are unaltered in colour and temperature, until they become distended and thinned by the increasing size of the tumour. In a few cases it has been possible to feel the pulsations of the brain ; the pulsation being synchronous with the radial pulse. A move- ment corresponding with inspiration and expi- ration may be also occasionally perceived. Its volume is diminished, or it entirely disappears under pressure, but reappears on the pressure being removed. The pressure usually causes a suspension of the intellectual powers, dulness, momentary paralysis or convulsions, and other symptoms of compression of the brain. The size of the tumour is increased by crying, coughing, sneezing, or forced expiration. The borders of the opening through which the protrusion has occurred may be felt. The tumour is tense, shining, and semi-transparent, when much serum is present, and if this be in very large quantity it may be impossible to dis- tinguish the pulsations. Generally the in- tellectual faculties are unimpaired. The sub- jects of this disease usually die young, but Guyenot1 recorded a case of a man who was upwards of thirty-three years of age, and Mr. Adams one of a man who had reached his twentieth year. The case of Guyenot was presented to the French Royal Academy of Surgery, April 21, 1774. The man was born August 10, 1741, and at birth the tumour was of the size of an egg. At the time he was presented before the Academy it was two and a half inches in diameter, circumscribed, and situated at the inferior part and to the left side of the frontal suture. The orbit on that side was a little depressed, integuments natu- ral, pulsation very distinct, intellect unim- paired. Seven or eight years before, he had a fall, and struck the tumour, which was fol- lowed by insensibility for twenty-four hours. He always had less power in the right arm than in the left. The accompanying sketch is from Mr. Adams’s patient. The defect in 1 Mem. dc l1 A cad. Roy. de Chir. tom. v. this case also was congenital. Mr. Adams says, “ The eye has been greatly distorted from the median line, and from the gradual pressure it has sustained from the tumour, opacity of the cornea, complete loss of vision, and even partial atrophy of the organ have been the consequence. The swelling has a very unequal surface, owing, as it were, to the convolutions of the brain. A rugged Fig. 237. uneven ridge marks the edges of the bony ring, through which the hernia protrudes. The centre of the swelling has a soft, unre- sisting feel, and it has a pulsation in it syn- chronous with the action of the heart. Dur- ing any respiratory effort, such as coughing or sneezing, an impulse is communicated to the tumour In this case the intellect was unaffected, and the only inconvenience caused by this tumour was the loss of the eye. In young children there is almost always more or less fluid in the tumour, which ren- ders fluctuation and transparency more com- mon in them. This becomes absorbed as the child grows, and it is then that the convolu- tions of the brain may be traced. We have seen that patients with this dis- ease may live many years, but it is more common to find that the tumour gradually enlarges, and the child dies exhausted ; that encephalitis is set up by some irritating cause, or that rapid increase in the quantity of fluid takes place, the sac becomes distended, the skin ulcerates or sloughs, fluid escapes, and death occurs, after convulsions more or less violent. The most usual complications are hydro- cephalus, spina bifida, or malformation in some other part of the body, as hare-lip, fissure of the palate, club-foot, &c. We shall presently refer to cases in which this disease was complicated by unilocular or multilocular 1 Oj). cit. pp. 310. 341.