284. ANGEIOLEUCITIS. unquestionably the mode in which angeioleu- citis is produced in the majority of cases ; but we must admit also, that it may proceed from the external to the internal surface, or 3. By contiguity of tissue, as in the case where the skin is perfectly entire and healthy. We have said enough to show how nume- rous and how various the causes must be that produce inflammation of the lymphatic ves- sels. In taking the first species mentioned, viz. that which arises without any external solu- tion of continuity, it will be perceived that inflammation in general, whether acute or chronic, whether diffused or circumscribed, is an incessant cause of it, so long as it exists in parenchyma, in the glands, under the skin, be- tween the muscles, around the bones, in the joints—in a word, wherever the cellular tissue is found. It is the same with regard to the pus, whether it be found in the state of infil- tration, or collection, or in that of a phlegm- onous, or congestive abscess. What is said of pus applies also to blood, and to all other effused fluids, that have undergone alteration in the situations in which they happen to be pent up. All forms of cancer, tubercles, and the greater number of degenerations of tissue and of morbid productions, fall under the same category. The second species of angeioleucitis has its source in all kinds of solutions of conti- nuity, which, either immediately or at a dis- tance, communicate with the atmosphere. Thus, perhaps, there is no disease of the skin that may not, at one time or another, have produced it. The psoric, lichenoid, eczema- tic, and variolic affections, ulcers, chilblains, scratches, wounds of all kinds, patches, or syphilitic tubercles, scirrhous, and encepha- loid masses, and all forms of ulceration often give rise to it. Fistules, open abscesses, frac- tures, luxations accompanied with laceration of the integuments, and suppuration, the wounds resulting from amputations, or from any other operation, are equally capable of producing it. If we pass from the skin and the subjacent tissues to the mucous mem- branes, we shall only have to repeat these remarks, viz. : that the inflammations, erup- tions, ulcerations, or lesions of whatever kind, of these tunics, that produce a morbid change in the fluids they imbibe, or with which they may be in contact, very frequently determine angeioleucitis. After this enumeration, we cannot help being struck with the proportionate rarity of inflammation of the lymphatic vessels ; but our wonder soon ceases, when we reflect that all these various causes are in general merely predisposing, and that conditions of another kind are still required in almost all cases to convert them into occasional causes. All these causes, however, of whatever kind they be, seem to act with greater energy at pu- berty, and in old age, than in the adult or middle period of life ; when the cellular tissue and the white fluids are predominant, than when the constitution is dry and nervous, or strongly muscular ; when the constitution has been exhausted by intemperance, improper regimen, or protracted illness, than when the health is good, and the individual robust. But, besides, the altered molecules must either penetrate in sufficient quantity, or be endowed with certain qualities to produce effect. In some cases, there may be absorption to a con- siderable extent, without producing any mani- fest bad consequences, whilst, in many others, a few molecules will be sufficient to determine the most intense and extensive inflammation. This peculiarity helps to explain why angeio- leucitis is so uncommon, when compared with the frequency of the causes capable of pro- ducing it, in the inflammations or other affec- tions not exposed to the action of the air, whilst the slightest puncture or abrasion, the most simple ulceration of the integuments may quickly produce it. It will also be easily understood how certain relative positions of the orifices of the pores of the lymphatics, as regards deleterious principles, should favour in a particular manner their absorption; vivid moral impressions, a sudden disorder of the functions, in a wrord, any circumstance capa- ble of subverting for a moment the vital or organic harmony, in parts beyond that which had been primitively attacked, are equally cal- culated to develop its defects. In some cases, it might be said, that the causes of angeioleu- citis, watching as it were for the moment when the organism is engaged in a struggle against danger from another source, assail the venous or lymphatic systems with the unre- sisted force of chemical action. When the development of a disease may be promoted or retarded by so many condi- tions, it cannot be matter of surprise, that its natural causes should be so frequently present without producing it. We may also add, that the molecular move- ments which commonly bring on angeioleu- citis are probably subject to many other in- fluences, and that we cannot at present pre- sume to assert that we are in possession of all the bearings of the problem that relates to this form of inflammation. Symptoms.—The phenomena accompanying inflammation of the lymphatic vessels are two- fold, viz.: local and general. The local symp- toms themselves differ more or less, according as the inflammation is superficial or deep- seated ; it will be proper therefore to examine them in succession under these different as- pects. When the disease arises in the subcuta- neous lymphatic vessels, if we examine care- fully, we shall find, almost always, the cause to be a solution of continuity, an inflammation, or suppuration of the skin. A change is ob- served to take place in the pre-existing lesion ; the diseased surface seems sunken and more inflamed ; swelling takes place, and pain is felt around the wound ; the suppuration wrhich was going on in it is suddeidy dried up or altered in quality, or it may all at once be-