ADHESION. hied, by setting it under a receiver, which he exhausted. This gas is evolved from the blood while it is undergoing coagulation. If the coagulating mass be examined with a microscope, the gas is observed, by its bub- bling, to escape in all directions, forming a net-work of capillaries, anastomosing with each other, and which remain visible when the coagulum is dried—the action resembling what takes place in the panary fermentation. It is obvious that the formation of these canals is owing to the escape of the gas, for when the blood is deprived of it by the air pump, before it begins to coagulate, they are not formed, and the mass remains soddened. It might be doubted whether the same pheno- mena would obtain in a clot shut up in the living tissues of the body ; but the question has been set at rest by some experiments of Sir E. Home. In one of these experiments, a clot was formed by dividing a small branch of the mesenteric artery in a rabbit, which received the injection twenty-four hours after. He also succeeded in injecting a coagulum, just formed, from blood which he had abstracted from a vein. He describes the disposition of the newly formed vessels as branching out from the small ampullae, or spots, (which first become elongated,) into a double arbores- cence, like that of the vena portae. We shall see in another place that he makes the same remark in the case of the formation of granu- lations. The process of vascularization has however been represented as taking place in a different manner by other physiologists. Gendrin thinks that the neighbouring vessels force blood into the coagulum, and thus the canals are prepared. Laennec states that the rudi- ments of blood-vessels are presented under the form of streaks of blood, which soon as- sume a cylindrical form, and ramify in the manner of blood-vessels. On the one hand, it is believed that the new vessels are fully formed before the blood is impelled into them from the surrounding capillaries ; on the other, that they are developed by the action of the primitive vessels, blood being first driven through the coagulum, in the form of streaks, which streaks are hollowed into vessels by the continuance of the same action. The point on which both are agreed is, that the vessels themselves are continuous with the venous capillaries, and that they sire suscepti- ble of injection from the primitive vessels, whether arteries or veins. When thus completely organized, it gra- dually undergoes changes, until it presents all the characters of cellular tissue, equally sus- ceptible of deposit and alteration as the same element in any other part of the body. The complete similarity, however, has been denied ; and it is maintained by some, that adipose matter is never deposited in the cells of the adventitious medium. In reply, it is only necessary to repeat, that the changes, by which the bond of union is rendered cellular, are exceedingly slow, -and that the inflammation in which it originated has terminated, as it does so frequently, in induration, which even time will not always remove. Tuberculous, and other deposits, have been found in the new organic substance ; and if fat has not, a point which is by no means certain, it would not prove against the general proposition ex- pressed above. It is, however, believed by many, that fat may also be deposited when the new organization becomes perfectly cel- lular, which of course, requires considerable time. We have been hitherto considering the vascularization of lymph as a result of wounds. The living parts may also be the seat of the deposition of coagulating lymph, without the intervention of any external cause. Severe irritation arising, and continuing in a part for some time, the affected spot is isolated, by the establishment of adhesion in the surround- ing parts ; these being rendered impermeable by the deposition of a yellowish serum and coagulable lymph. This process is purely preservative, as the diffusion of the inflamma- tion is thus completely checked. It is to the absence of this plastic barrier that the exten- sive ravages, that take place in phlegmonous erysipelas, are to be attributed. (See Abscess, Erysipelas.) When the inflammation does not proceed to suppuration, in other words, when resolution takes place, the deposited lymph is absorbed, and the cellular tissue is restored to its former condition, becoming permeable and areolar. When the inflamma- tion has run high, however, the absorption is not altogether complete ; the walls of the cells remain permanently adherent, in the same manner, and by the same bond, as that which unites the edges of a wound; the cells are thus effaced, and the parts are indurated. The effect of this change in the cellular tissue merits attention from the surgeon, as it often renders intricate and embarrassing the per- formance of certain operations, which, had no such change occurred, would have been easy and expeditious. Take, for instance, a tumour in the neck, which has involved the blood- vessels and nerves, and which has thickened the cellular tissue surrounding them ; he can only succeed in removing it by slow and careful dissection, whereas, had the cellular tissue undergone no change, he could have rolled it out from its connexions with his fingers alone, as soon as he had divided the external integuments. We have been hitherto considering adhesion as a result of a certain degree of organic exaltation, so well named by Hunter, adhesive inflammation, and which, by uniting parts which otherwise must sup- purate, serves as a barrier to suppurative in- flammation. We shall now offer a few observations on adhesion in surfaces that have suppurated, or, adhesion by granulation. This portion of the subject will be but briefly noticed here, as it will be described more fully under the head Cicatrix. Granulations arise only in parts that have suppurated, and, wherever they occur, are seated or based on cellular tissue. Their