CATARACT. 724 command its movements. Any pressure upon the eye, too, would now be highly dangerous, and might frustrate the successful accomplish- ment of the operation, by causing the eva- cuation of the aqueous humour, or pressing the iris under the edge of the knife. Second stage or period.—The cornea being now transfixed by the knife, and all pressure removed from the eyeball, the second period or completion of the incision of the cornea is now to be effected. This is best accomplished by simply pushing the knife forwards, by which it completes the incision by cutting itself out, dividing the lower part of the cornea upon which the edge was directed. In thus com- pleting the incision, the knife must be moved very slowly and steadily, and while the pre- vious stage of the operation could not be ac- complished too quickly, this cannot be per- formed too slowly. No sawing motion should be given to the knife, and while it is moved steadily forwards, in the direction of its point, the whole of the knife should be pulled a little forwards towards the operator, which keeps the eyeball steady, and prevents its rolling in towards the nose. The whole line of the incision thus formed, should be at the distance of ^th of an inch from the margin of the cornea ; for when it is made nearer than this, a portion of the iris is apt to be so much deprived of its support that it falls out and prolapses through the wound. Mr. Wardrop some years ago recommended the edge of the knife to be turned forwards, by which the incision was completed about half way between the transverse diameter of the cornea and its lower margin. Mr. Travers recommended that the lower part of the in- cision should be made half way between the pupil and margin of the cornea. Immediately upon the exit of the knife from the eye, or rather at the very last portion of the incision, the assistant ought to let fall the upper eyelid ; the operator then allows the eyelids to be gently closed, and the patient is directed to retain them so, and allow the eye to rest for a little. When the incision of the cornea has thus been completed, the aque- ous humour escapes, and a partial collapse of the eye takes place, by which the iris and lens are pressed forwards in contact with the cornea. This completes the most difficult and dan- gerous part of the operation, as during the accomplishment of it the most dangerous ac- cidents are apt to happen. Fig. 24 represents the state of the eye when the incision has been completed. From the difficulty of accomplishing pro- perly this stage of the operation, and the great dexterity it requires, ditferent other modes of forming the section of the cornea have been adopted. Daviel, and some followers of his, first simply punctured the cornea with the point of a lancet-shaped knife, and then enlarged the opening to a sufficient extent by means of scissors. Others, after making a similar punc- ture, have completed the semi-circular section by means of a small round-pointed knife (fig. 20). A third mode which has been practised has been to transfix the cornea with a knife in the manner above-described, then to with- draw it just before completing the incision, leaving a small portion at the lower part of the cornea to be divided, so as to complete the section by means of scissors. And a fourth method which has been employed is that by introducing a knife, consisting of two blades, which, after being introduced through the counter-puncture, one of the blades is em- ployed to keep the eyeball steady, while the other is pushed forwards so as to complete the incision of the cornea. That the operation may be performed equally successfully by any of these methods cannot be questioned; but they are in general only a clumsy substitute for manual dexterity. They are modes of operating, however, which ought to be kept in view', as an operator, whatever his dexterity is, may be obliged to resort to one or other of them to complete an operation from the occurrence of some unexpected ac- cident. A properly-made section of the cornea is a very essential part of the operation of extrac- tion, and depends much on the manner in which the knife is held. In the first place, the handle of the knife should be rather broad and flat, and by no means approaching to an equal-sided octagon. The handle in fact should be incapable of rolling betwixt the fingers. The young surgeon will find it ad- vantageous to hold it between the points of the fore and middle fingers on the one hand, and the point of the thumb on the other, and in a direction somewhat at right-angles to them. By holding the knife in this manner, all the manoeuvres can be much more readily executed by means of the fingers alone ; but the great advantage consists in this, that the surfaces of the blade can be kept unerringly parallel to the surface of the iris and the base of the cornea, during its passage across the anterior chamber. This being the case, the edge of the knife has no tendency to cut out abruptly, or on the contrary be inclined to- wards the sclerotica. According to the direction in which the edge of the knife is inclined when it pierces the cornea, and is passing across the anterior chamber, so must that of the section be. If the knife is properly held and entered, all that the surgeon has to do in carrying it across the anterior chamber, i3 to w'atch its point, so that the counter-punctuation may be made at the proper place ; this being effected, the surgeon has complete command over the eye, and all that is now required is to push the knife steadily on, and it inevitably goes right. But if it has been ill entered at first, though the deviation of its surfaces from parallelism with the surface of the iris and base of the cornea may have been very slight, the devi- ation of the edge from the right direction rapidly increases with the progressive motion