45 ACUPUNCTURE. an inch asunder. It is stated that they are so bold in the application of the needles, that they plunge them into the various viscera, and even into the foetus in the womb, to repress its tu- multuous movements ; but they avoid care- fully puncturing in the neighbourhood of the articulations. Moxa and acupuncture are held in high estimation by them, and, indeed, may he said to constitute the whole of their prac- tice of surgery; acupuncture, in particular, is as universally employed, and in as great a variety of cases as bleeding, which they abhor, is with us. But they have the most un- bounded faith in its efficacy, when indicated by pains which they suppose to depend on winds or vapours wandering about, or pent up in various parts of the body. The selection of the part, however, is not, except in cases where poor persons trust to their own expe- rience, left to the guidance of the indications on the lay figure. The seat of the pain, if varying from them, sets aside their value, and whichever operation is to be performed, par- ticular persons are consulted ; these are called Tensasi touchers, or searchers of the parts, and Faritatte, the needle-prickers or opera- tors. The introduction of the needles is effected either by smartly pricking the skin, and press- ing onwards, while the operator rotates the needle, or by a blow of a small mallet. Since the adoption of acupuncture by scientific prac- titioners, the following mode is preferred :— the spot being selected, usually the seat of pain, or when any circumstance forbids this, the adjacent parts, the operator having stretched the skin with the fore and middle fingers of the left hand, pierces it perpendicu- larly with a gentle pressure, and the body of the needle is advanced by means of a semi- rotatory motion, in opposite directions, till it has penetrated to the required depth ; and this is repeated till the desired number is in- troduced. Their withdrawal is sometimes ef- fected by means of a forceps ; but it will be better to withdraw them by the same motion with which they were introduced, as the skin is painfully elevated by their direct and forcible retraction ; possibly, also, by the latter mode, the point of the needle might be broken off, if it were not well tempered. The withdrawal of the needle is not followed by haemorrhage, but sometimes a single drop of blood oozes from the puncture. In penetrating, the needle often meets with variable degrees of resist- ance, according to the nature of the parts through which it passes. The Japanese and Chinese allow the needles to remain only while the patient makes thirty respirations. M. Cloquet states, that he derived the most marked benefit in cases where he caused them to be kept in several days ; this accords with my own experience. It is true, the pain may cease instantaneously on the introduction of the first needle ; but we observe this by far more frequently after the needles have been in some time ; indeed, so satisfied am I on this point, that I prefer a single needle remaining for some time in the part, to several intro- 12 duced and withdrawn speedily. But there is yet no general rule as to the time which the needles ought to be allowed to remain. Dr. Bache, who has employed acupuncture suc- cessfully in America, in cases of rheumatism, states, the more chronic or long standing the disease, the greater will be the length of time the needles should remain in the tissues. Practitioners who are best acquainted with the mode of performing the operation, object to forcing the needle in by sudden and direct plunging,—the tissues on its route are thus wounded ; whereas, they maintain, when the needle is gently rotated, that the fibres are only separated. In general, the pain of intro- duction is so slight as to be entirely disre- garded ; as a proof of this, it may be mention- ed, when M. Cloquet drew the attention of the profession to acupuncture, in Paris, it was by no means uncommon to see the students bare the calves of their legs, and insert com- mon pins into the substance of the muscles, to convince the incredulous of the innocuity of the operation. Sometimes, however, the pro- gress of the needle is marked by sudden and severe pain. M. Cloquet describes the pain as bearing some analogy to an electric shock. M. Dantu has made the same observation '. After the needle has been a short time intro- duced, it produces a sensation of pricking, heat, and in some instances of cold and numb- ness ; it is surrounded also by an areola, more or less vivid. Beclard saw one case in which the introduction of a needle into the leg to soothe acute pain, was followed by fainting and delirium. From the impression which it made on his mind, he felt disposed to reject the operation altogether. Fainting, however, must be of rare occurrence. M. Cloquet did not observe it oftener than once in thirty times in the thousands of cases in which it was employed at St. Louis. In upwards of fifty cases in which Dr. Bache employed the needles, he did not observe a disposition to swooning in more than one case; in which, however, syn- cope did not take place, and in no case was any untoward consequence observed. Care should be taken to have the needles perfectly polished before using them, as the pain of in- troducing one that is quite smooth will be comparatively slight; for this purpose, they should be passed into the emery bag both be- fore and after use. Therapeutical applications.—The boldness of some experimenters on acupuncture has been to the extent not only of exciting wonder hut disapprobation on the ground of temerity. M. Samuel Cooper, in the article Acupuncture, in the Surgical Dictionary, observes, “ In a mo- dern French work (Berlioz’s), it has been highly commended ; but the author sets so rash an example, and is so wild in his expecta- tions of what may be done by the thrust of a 1 When the needle is of an oxydable metal, a gal- vanic current issues from it, which is recognised by the galvanic multiplier of Schweigger. But this circum- stance does not appear to have any influence on the efficacy of acupuncture, which is equally successful, when the needles are of gold, silver, or platina.