FRACTURE. 328 of April an extensive abscess formed in the thigh, and his health had become in some degree impaired. On the fourth of July, on account of the fever, diarrhoea, and debility of the patient, the seton was removed, having been allowed to remain four months and four days, without producing any bony union. (Penn. Hosp. Case-Book, i. p. 108.) “ The situation of the fragments, their being widely separated, or placed in such a direc- tion that they cannot be readily kept in con- tact ; or the abundant deposit of callus about their extremities, may be obstacles, some- times insurmountable, to its use. The exist- ence of great malposition in the fragments will generally preclude its employment. Close proximity of the fracture to the main artery and nerve, or to an important joint, may also, at times, prevent a trial with the seton. Where the bone has been for years disunited, and the fracture is very loose, or presents irregular surfaces, the seton is entirely un- suited. In all other cases, it should be pre- ferred to all other operative procedures, as, in case of a failure with it, some of the more serious operations may always be resorted to. Weinhold (Med. Recorder, xiii.) imagines that the principal cause of failure with the seton (as used in Europe in connexion with an external incision) is, its permitting the access of the external air to the extremities of the bone, which, for that reason, are ex- tremely disposed to become carious ; and to obviate this, he proposes making the wound funnel-shaped, and using a conical or wedge- like seton. In addition to the cases treated by the seton which have been already al- luded to, or are included in our tables, this method of treatment has been successfully used in the fore-arm by Delpech, (Clin. Chir. i. p. 255.) in the leg by Rigal de Gaillac, in the clavicle by Randolph, and by Saurer in the leg in a case of eight months’ duration. (Oppenheim on False Joints, in Zeitschrift fur die Gesammte Medicin, No. 5, May 1837.) In the case of a non-united fracture of the humerus, cited by Lom- bard, (Velpeau, Med. Operatoire, ii. p. 586,) it was employed without benefit; and on the same bone with only partial success, by Bedard of Strasburg. An ununited fracture of the acromion process of the scapula, occur- ring in a female, which was treated by the seton some years back at the Alms-House Infirmary of this city, terminated in death. Professor Mott’s experience in the use of the seton has been large: eleven cases have been treated by this method by him, of which three were of the femur, three of the tibia, and five of the humerus. In all it succeeded perfectly, except in three of the last-men- tioned bone, which were afterwards cured by resection of the ends. (Vache, in Am. Journ. of the Med. Sci. ix. p. 262.) “ Reference to the tables appended to this paper exhibits the following results in forty- six cases in which the seton and its modifica- tions were employed Of these, 13 were in the femur, of which 9 were cured. 10 ... leg, ... 10 16 ... humerus,... 10 6 ... fore-arm, ... 6 1 ... jaw, ... 1 “ Of these forty-six cases, twenty-one are stated to have had an incision made down to the bone previous to the introduction of the seton, and twenty-four had it passed without a previous incision. Of the twenty-one where previous incision was made, seventeen were cured, two amended, one failed, and one died. Of the twenty-four in which there was no previous division of the soft parts, eighteen were cured, one amended, four failed, and one died. “ In one case the seton was passed through a fistulous opening which previously existed. “ The longest period that the fracture had existed in these cases, was ten years (femur, set. 26). The shortest period was six weeks (tibia, set. 48). The average period was twelve months and twelve days. “ The longest period that the seton was allowed to remain, was thirteen months (hu- merus, set. 48, failed). The shortest period was seven days (fore-arm, cured). The ave- rage period was seven weeks and three days. “ The longest period required for the cure was eight months (femur, set. 41). The shortest period was three weeks (humerus, set. 23). The average period was two months and twenty-four days. In seventeen of the cases in which the seton was employed, other methods of operating are stated to have been tried and to have failed. “ In the forty-six cases treated by the seton, accidents dependent upon the method em- ployed, and not terminating in death, are noted as having occurred twelve times (arte- rial hemorrhage twice ; severe fever, erysi- pelas, or profuse suppuration, ten times).” Escharolics applied to the ends of bone forming a false joint, constitute a very ready and efficient means of removing all the organ- ized obstructions to reunion, and of exciting periostitis. The seton is certainly less power- ful ; and any more extensive operation must be both more powerful and dangerous, and without any more established grounds of hope, whether in experience or reason. Having made an incision to expose the false joint, and more or less to divide it after drying the wound, the caustic potash is to be applied in the interspace of the bones until a considerable, rather than an extensive slough is formed. The wound should be gently kept open with lint, and the limb placed at ease, so as to favour, first suppuration and then re- union. Removal of the surfaces of the fractured ex- tremities.—A little later than the middle of the last century, Mr. White of Manchester con- ceived the idea of, and successfully practised, a method of treatment of false joints, to which we are sometimes obliged to have recourse, when the less severe and dangerous methods