519 BRONCHOTOMY. and spasm of the glottis. If this be the ease, I think bronchotomy should be performed, as it would certainly prolong the life of the pa- tient. And as we all know that aneurisms of the aorta have undergone a spontaneous cure, it might be the means of indirectly effecting a perfect restoration. It should, however, be invariably impressed on the friends, that the operation is performed on account of a disease which is almost always fatal, and that tempo- rary relief can alone be expected. But as this relief is so great, and as it may be a consider- able time before the aneurism bursts, I think it is clearly the duty of the surgeon to operate, ])rovided spasm be the cause of the symptoms. On the other hand ; if we suppose the danger to have arisen from mechanical ob- struction, this will have first operated on one bronchus, by which the corresponding lung is rendered useless ; and if the other lung has become so diseased as to induce danger of suffocation, it is evident that the operation would be useless and unjustifiable. Useless, as death is approaching, not from obstruction to the air, but from disease of the lung, which the operation could not remove. Unjusti- fiable, because by a careful examination the surgeon might make himself acquainted with the true state of the case. For if spasm ex- ist, both lungs will obviously be in the same state, or nearly so, as regards the transit of air; but, if a bronchus be compressed, we have the physical signs indicating this state ; and if the other lung be suffering from congestion or inflammation, we have dulness, and the va- rious rales observed in these cases. We might have an aneurism compressing the trachea itself, at or just above its bifurcation, but I apprehend, that in this case the obstruc- tion to respiration would have been so long continued before symptoms of suffocation would supervene, that the lungs would have suffered so much as to render the operation useless, even if the passage for the air could be satisfactorily restored, which appears to me very doubtful. 9. Enlarged bronchial glands, or cancer- ous tumours around the trachea, would pro- duce the same effects on the respiration as an aneurism of the aorta ; and if there be great danger of suffocation, this is sufficient warranty for bronchotomy, as it is the only means of saving life. If the danger has arisen from the bronchial glands, it will also give time to try the effect of iodine, and thus may not only be a means of prolonging life, but of effecting a cure. V. Injuries and wounds of the throat. This is not the place to treat of the differ- ent wounds of the throat, the sources of their danger, or the treatment applicable to each. We have simply to consider, under what cir- cumstances bronchotomy may be required, in the treatment of such accidents. It may be necessary to, 1. prevent rapid suffocation, which is liable to ensue from the tumefaction of the parts about the glottis, in consequence of inflammation, or (2) to place the upper part of the air-tube in a state of rest, which is absolutely necessary for its adhesion, if wounded. (1.) Desault has objected to the operation, on the grounds, that another wound is added, which increases the difficulty of the cure ; that new inflammation is excited ; the danger of haemorrhage ; and the probability of an aerial fistula being the consequence. He has proposed the introduction of an elastic tube through the nostril into the trachea as a sub- stitute. Fig. 158 Now, if the surgeon be au fait at the intro- duction of the tube, (an operation which it is the duty of all to practise frequently on the dead subject,) the swelling about the rima be not so great as to prevent it, and no very great irritation be produced, the tube is doubt- less to be preferred. But it is very seldom that this fortunate combination of circum- stances occurs. As to the danger of new inflammation, or increase of that already ex- isting, the presence of a tube in the larynx seems far more likely to be injurious than a simple incised wound. If there were any certainty of the occurrence of lnomorrhage into the trachea, this is an accident so dis- tressing in its consequences, that it would weigh strongly against the operation. But when speaking of the operation itself, I shall show that it may almost always be avoided. As to the danger of aerial fistula, it is far more imaginary than real. Desault himself does not say he ever saw a case, and when it does occur it is only when large portions of the windpipe have been carried away. Mr. Por- ter mentions one case, and Dr. Stokes lately exhibited a man at the Meath hospital in