378 ARTERIES. the application of the remedy in this form can- not be entrusted to the patient or his usual at- tendants, and every step of the manipulation de- mands great precaution, more particularly if the lingers of the surgeon be accidentally abraded. The uncertainty of the effect of arsenic ap- plied to ulcers has been assigned to different causes. Mr. Blackadder, who states that he never saw more than one instance of its dele- terious operation, although he had for a length of time employed it, attributes his suc- cess to his having always applied very large quantities, which he believes very quickly de- stroy the organization, and necessarily prevent the action of absorption. Harles remarks that it is perfectly innoxious when applied to an abraded surface, to sores, or to malignant ulcers, even in a high state of irritation, pro- vided the part be not recently wounded, and that no blood issue from it; for it is by the direct application to the open vessel that it is absorbed, and that with the same cer- tainty and rapidity as if it had been injected into the vein. The powder of Frere Come, Plunket’s powder, the pommade of Hellmund, are the compositions applied to the ulcers of the face and nose, which occasionally com- mit such ravages; these preparations gene- rally produce eschars, and considerable pain and tumefaction. Dupuytren has therefore given some formulae, which possess a different mode of action, and modify the effects. For this purpose he employs calomel; he recom- mends a powder formed by mixing one part of arsenious acid with ninety-nine parts of calo- mel, sometimes increasing the proportion of the arsenic to five or six parts. His liquid preparation consists in the simple solution of arsenious acid and calomel in distilled water, or in the form of a paste with gum, generally making the solution a little stronger than the powder. The pate arsenicalc has one part of the arsenic to thirty-two of fatty matter. The powder of Rousselot consists of one part of arsenic, sixteen parts of the red oxide of mercury, and eight parts of the resin of Ptero- carpus Draco, which has been said by Cul- lerier to prevent the absorption of the poison. During the internal administration or ex- ternal application of arsenic, great attention must be paid to the state of the digestive or- gans, for should a gastro-enteritic state super- vene, other bad symptoms soon follow, and blotches on the skin rapidly becoming gan- grenous, or paralysis of the lower limbs, quickly evince the poisonous effect. This drug should not be combined with any acid. The dose, at first, should be very small ; the sixteenth of a grain twice or thrice a day is quite sufficient to commence with, for three quarters of a grain have pro- duced sensations of constriction at the throat, spasms, diarrhoea, or vomiting: very little more should be left in possession of the patient than may be required. It is best to exhibit it immediately after a meal, when the stomach contains food. Should any bad effects follow, opium may be exhibited; and, if inflammatory symptoms supervene, blood-letting, both general and local, ought to be employed. Orfila has recommended sul- phuretted hydrogen condensed in water as a direct means of counteracting its virulence. More recently, hydrated sesquioxide of iron has been proposed as a chemical antidote by MM. Berthold and Bunsen ; and several cases have been recorded of its efficacy. But little reliance can be placed on lime- water or magnesia, although they are most generally recommended. In the copper- mines of Cornwall, sweet-oil is employed as a preventive to the bad influence* of the arsenical vapours. The effluvia from arsenic is said to be destructive to those who for any length of time are exposed to it; both animals and vegetables are materially affected in the neighbourhood of copper-mines, but it is stated that in aguish countries, it is a preventive to the develop- ment of intermittent fever. During the plague at Marseilles, arsenical fumigations were tried, but Chirac pointed out their dele- terious agency. (George G. Sigmond.') ARTERY, ARTERIES, 'Apmpia, Gr.; Arteria, Lat.; Artere, Fr.; Pulsader, Schlagader, Ger. The arteries are the canals or tubes which serve for the transmission of the blood from the ventricles of the heart. They arise from it by two trunks—that from the right ventricle, called the pulmonary artery, sup- plies the lungs—that from the left, (the aorta) all the other parts of the body. From these two sources, they ramify into numberless sub- divisions in an arborescent form. Considered as to structure, they possess three distinct coats; the external, or cellular, derived from the parts through which the vessel passes, and on which its power of resistance mainly de- pends ; the middle, or fibro-elastic coat, con- sisting of transverse or circular fibres, of a 3^ellowish hue, and strong in proportion to their proximity to the heart. This has been also called the muscular coat; and the internal, or serous coat, which forms the lining of these vessels. The two latter coats are much more fragile than the first, and between them the vasa vasorum may be traced. The characters of each of these coats are perfectly distinct. The cellular tunic is thick, filamentous, and compact. The middle tunic is firm, dry, and elastic, its fibres being ar- ranged in concentric layers, having a slightly oblique, or spiral direction. It is to the firm- ness of this tissue that the cylindroid form of arteries is chiefly owing, while its elastic pro- perties confer a power of accommodation to the varying volume of blood transmitted through these vessels. This tunic is found in all arte- ries, even in those of the brain, and is only rendered indistinct from the diminished size of the vessels. The internal tunic is smooth, polished, moist, and when separated, trans- parent ; it is also firmer and thicker in the arteries than in the veins and lymphatics ; and contributes chiefly to form the various valves of the vascular system. Some anatomists con-