199 FISTULA, INTESTINAL. 1*one vies. Mem. dc l’Acad. de Chir. t. ii. p. 354. Edit, of 1819. Gun-shot wound; fecal discharge on the following day. Fecal discharge ceased entirely in a few days. Desault. (Euv. Chir. t. ii. p. 370. Wounded by the bursting of a bomb; one inch of intes- tine protruded, di- vided, and after- wards retracted within the abdo- men; free discharge of feces. Intestinal fistula with prolapse for four years; cured by the use of the linen tent. Larrev. Rclat. Chir. dc l’Armee d’Orient. p. 300. Gun-shot wound of abdomen; ileum divided by the ball, and the ex- tremities of the gut drawn apart from each other, prolapsed, and strictured by the wound ; wound di- lated ; the di- vided extremities brought together, and left within the wound. In two months there was intesti- nal fistula, which was cured by the use of Desault’s tent in two months afterwards. Hennen. Observations on Military Surgery, p. 441. Severe contusions of the abdomen from the splinter of a shell. The contused parts sloughed on the sixth day, after which the feces entirely passed by the opening thus produced. In three months the feces first began in part to take their natural course. In six months the wound was so far reduced in size as to be scarcely per- ceptible, no feces issuing from it. Hennen. op. citat. p. 443. Wound from a musket-ball which entered at the right groin, and escaped at the back part of the pelvis on the left side. Soon afterwards clotted blood and feces passed by the anus, and excrementi- tious matter and flatus escaped from both wounds. In five weeks the feces ceased to es- cape from the pos- terior orifice, which soon after closed. In eleven weeks the anterior orifice had also closed; after which thepos- terior wound open- ed three successive times, and dis- charged feculent matter, but soon closed. Hennen. op. citat. p. 445. Wound with mus- ket ball which pas- sed obliquely thro' the long head of the left triceps ad- ductor, traversed the pelvis below thebladdcr, wound- ed the rectum, and escaped through the inferior portion ofthcosilii. For eight days the feces passed entirely by the anteriorwound. On the ninth day the feces passed partly by the natu- ral course. On the thirty-first the pos- terior orifice had healed, and the an- terior wound was assuming a more healthy character. On the sixty-third day, all the feces took their natural course, and the an- terior wound was cicatrized. IV. Anatomical Characters of Intesti- nal Fistula. When the natural efforts fail in restoring the continuity of the intestinal canal, if life be preserved, permanent fecal fistula, or abnor- mal anus, is produced. In this condition, the intestinal contents may escape entirely, or in part by the accidental opening; or the aper- ture may be so small as only to allow of the occasional discharge of liquid feculent mat- ter, or a little mucus. The discharge from the adventitious opening is always involun- tary, as there is not a sphincter muscle to control it. The aperture is generally rounded, sometimes irregular, varying considerably in size, being sometimes an inch or more in diameter, and occasionally so small as scarcely to admit a probe. The following drawing, from the collection of Dupuytren, represents a case of intestinal fistula, in which the two portions of intestine terminated on the cutaneous surface by separate orifices. Fig. 252. Intestinal fistula from Dupuytren's collection. o, Ujyper portion of intestine. 6, Loiver ditto. c, Aperture of louer portion. d, Aperture of upper portion. Sometimes there are several small fis- tulas communicating with the intestine. The surrounding integument is generally indu- rated, thickened, inflamed, and excoriated. Within the opening, the mucous membrane of the intestine may often be seen tumid and of a bright red colour. If the ex- ternal aperture be large, the two openings of the intestine, and the partition separating them, may be seen. “ One of these orifices, says Dupuytren \ “ belongs to the upper part of the bowel; and, from being constantly permeated by food and feces, is the largest of the two. The other, or the opening of the lower intestinal extremity, receives no ali- mentary or fecal matter, or only a small quantity ; it is contracted, narrow, and with difficulty discovered. Beyond these orifices are the two extremities of the intestine, of 1 Memoire sur tine Methodo nouvelle pour trailer les Anus accidentelles,in theMemoires del'Academic Hoy ale dc Medccinc, t. i. p. 464 ; and Lawrence on ltupturcs, fifth edition, p. 383.