226 FISTULA, LARYNGEAL, TRACHEAL, AND THORACIC. thyro-hyoid space have undergone solution of continuity. For this the learned surgeon just named points out satisfactory anatomical reasons. Plastic surgery has been applied with con- siderable success by M. Velpeau to the cure of cases in which the promotion of adhesion of the borders has in vain been attempted. His method, that of broncho-plasty, consists essentially in the construction of a fold or plug of healthy tissues, which blocks up the orifice ; it is thus described by himself. First, The subject is placed on his back, as in the operation for bronchotoiny, while the sur- geon, standing on the right side, dissects out with a straight or convex bistoury, in front of the larynx, and below the ulcer, a flap of inte- guments an inch broad, and two long, more or less, according to the dimensions of the open- ing. In effecting this lie cuts the flap square interiorly,—gives it a little more width supe- riorly than inferiorly, dissects and raises it from the far extremity toward the root, and at the same time turns over along with it as much cellular tissue as possible, without denuding the cartilage. Secondly, the edges of the fistula are to be refreshed. M. Velpeau finds that the best way of doing this is to introduce the point of the bistoury into any point of the circle to be refreshed, and then to carry it round the entire circumference be- fore intercepting any where the continuity of the pellicle which is to be subsequently re- moved. In this manner a narrow band is excised, which is successively, and without difficulty, supported by the forceps at its different points, in proportion as the instru- ment separates it from before to behind. As its deep stratum is not detached until the end, the blood escapes outwards, and not into the larynx, and at all events, if a very small quantity do enter that tube, it does not excite so violent coughing as would arise were not the precaution described taken, and it ex- poses the patient to no risk of suffocation. It is advisable to cut the skin in such a manner, that the wound shall present the form of a funnel, with its narrow end behind. Thirdly, the patient having been allowed a few mo- ments’ rest, the fixing of the flap is to be attended to. This may be done in two differ- ent ways—(a) if the fistula be of greater extent transversely than vertically, the flap is first to be doubled, care being taken that the point shall not be quite so high as the root. In this state it is to be turned over without being twisted. The cellulo-fatty surface only being free, the surgeon places the heel (talon), or the middle part into the fistula. All that then remains to be done is to pass from the left to the right side a long needle, which transfixes the lips of the wound, and the whole substance of the body filling this wound. A few turns of twisted suture, and ordinary dressing are then to be applied.—(b) When the fistula is of greatest extent in its vertical diameter, or when it affects a circular form, it is sufficient to roll the flap, cut in the man- ner described, on its cutaneous surface, and parallel to its long diameter, so as to form a cylinder or plug of it. Turning it over then, the operator plunges its free extremity into the opening to a certain depth, fixes it as before, and endeavours to leave no space between the freshened surfaces. Two cases are given in which this broncho- plastic operation was perfectly successful; and it certainly appears more likely to be effec- tual in bad cases than any other that has been devised. We agree with its author in his belief, that no previously concerted plan is sufficiently similar to his to deprive him of the merit of originality. These plans are described in M. Velpeau’s Memoir1, as also the details of his cases given. Thoracic.—Under this head we purpose giving a rapid sketch of the chief forms of fistulous communication, of which one termi- nation is in the lungs or pleura. These are :— Broncho-pulmonary. Bron ch o-pleu ral. Broncho-cutaneous. Broncho-ji/euro-cutaneous. Pleuro-cutancous. Broncho-renal. Broncho-hepatic. Pleuro-hepatic. Broncho-intestinal. Broncho-pulmonary.—Communications be- tween the pulmonary parenchyma and the bronchi arise in consequence of abscess, gan- grene, or tuberculous destruction of the sub- stance of the lung. The process whereby such communications, when extensive, are converted into fistulae, has been followed with greatest precision in cases of cavities arising from the softening and evacuation of tubercle. The space left in the lung by these occurrences becomes invested by plastic mat- ter, which assumes gradually the fibro-carti- laginous character in the stratum next the pulmonary substance, and then acquires the qualities of mucous tissue on its free surface. The membrane thus formed continues to be the seat of mueo-purulent secretion for a length of time, but may eventually cease to produce a superabundant discharge : under these circumstances the original tuberculous excavation is converted into an innocuous fistula. That (in opposition to what is recog- nized to be one of the most remarkable pro- perties of fistulae, their tendency to remain open) the broncho-pulmonary fistula origina- ting in tuberculous disease, does actually sometimes undergo a gradual process of con- traction, whereby its sides, insensibly approx- imated to each other, at length come into con- tact, coalesce, and form a linear cicatrix in the lung, was a doctrine taught, and most inge- niously supported, by Laennec. His ideas upon the subject have been accepted by writers upon pulmonary pathology. To the works of this class of authors we refer the reader for further information on the subject. 1 Gazette Medicale dc Paris, deuxieme eerie, t. i. p. 313. 1833.