621 CANCER, PATHOLOGY OF. sented the symptoms of the cachexia in so marked a manner that Dupuytren not only refused to remove the disease, but dissuaded M. Parent from the use of leeches, was seized with remittent cephalalgia of intolerable vio- lence : at the same time the mammary growth ceased to be painful and disappeared almost completely. Apoplectic symptoms with hemi- plegia supervened, were combated by the or- dinary means, and recurred twice before the patient’s death, which took place ten weeks after the first apoplectic seizure, and two years after the supervention of the symptoms in the mamma. On post-mortem examination a tumour the size of a nut, and possessing the characters of carcinoma, according to the testimony of Cruveilhier, was discovered floating, as it were, in a quantity of diffluent brain. The case is narrated with very satis- factory minuteness. The diseased condition of the nerves ad- joining cancer, already adverted to, has been cited by Lobstein as affording proof that the affection may be transmitted to distant organs through the medium of those cords. This hypothesis has not sufficient plausibility to require serious examination. Numerous writers, apparently in despair of discovering the true mechanism of secondary cancerous development, have, like our fore- fathers in respect of metastatic abcesses, contented themselves with the verbal sub- terfuge, that it is accomplished in virtue of the intimate physiological connexion or sympathy subsisting between parts. The mamma and uterus are adduced as organs exemplifying this mode of propagation of the disease. The illustration is singu- larly infelicitous. Those who have examined the bodies of many individuals dying with uterine cancer are aware that secondary development in distant parts is, compara- tively, one of its rarest concomitants ; and that when such development takes place, the mamma is in the vast majority of cases spared. In a very considerable number of autopsies of females dying in all stages of uterine car- cinoma, we have not observed a single in- stance of similar secondary growth in the mamma. The accurate Bayle declares, as the result of his experience, that the uterus is ordinarily perfectly free from organic disease in cases of fatal mammary scirrhus ; and this even in women who have towards the close of life had an abundant fetid vaginal dis- charge : the existence of such discharge has probably engendered the error to which we refer. Dr. Blundell, too, mentions' that he has never seen a coincident deposition in the mamma and uterus. Further, all are agreed in regarding the liver and spleen as intimately connected physiologically; yet so extremely rare is the coexistence of cancer in these organs, that Breschet not long since asserted that such combination had never, to his knowledge, been observed. Of eleven cases 1 Diseases of Women, p. 161. of cancer of the liver related in Andral’s Clinique one only was attended with similar formation in the spleen; though in almost every instance there were other organs beside the liver affected with the disease. It is a curious fact, too, that in Velpeau’s celebrated case, while the liver contained several hundred cancers, and hardly a part of the frame had escaped contamination, the spleen was un- affected. The liver was not affected in one half the cases of cancerous disease of the spleen we have found in authors ; and even if the number of cases were greater, it must be recollected that no matter where the primary disease exists, the liver, as has just been stated, is the organ most prone to suffer con- secutively. These facts suffice to overthrow the doctrine of sympathy. The question has arisen, whether any par- ticular organs or tissues are incapable of becoming the primary seat of the disease. Individual experience can scarcely be ex- pected to furnish a correct answer to a ques- tion of the kind. We have already exposed the fallacy of Scarpa’s notions on this point. Dr. Carswell has never met with carcinoma of the pancreas, muscular, venous and ar- terial tissues, serous, mucous, and fibrous membranes, without the disease having been communicated from a neighbouring organ. But Bayle mentions his having seen primitive cancer of the pancreas in a few instances ; and he is not likely to have been mistaken in the nature of the affection, as he is at much pains to distinguish true scirrhus of the organ from other diseased indurations : M. Recamieralso relates a case in which the pancreas was the sole organ affected. Secondly, though pri- mary affection of the mucous membranes is extremely rare—the disease originating either in the subjacent cellular tissue, or in the mus- cular tunic, where such exists—yet we are disposed from our examinations of certain cancerous stomachs to believe with Scarpa, Cruveilhier, and others, that the morbid ac- tion commences occasionally with the mucous tissue. Thirdly, though cancerous tumours of the internal surface of the dura mater ordinarily originate in the cellular tissue between that membrane and the arachnoid, yet observers of eminence affirm that the morbid growth may sometimes be distinctly traced to the fibrous substance itself. Can- cerous tumours are produced from the perios- teum of the cylindrical bones, the latter being themselves perfectly free from dis- ease : and sometimes encephaloid “ splits the sclerotic into two lamellae, distinctly originating in the interstitial substance of that coat.” Bayle states that the muscles of locomotion are not observed to be affected with primary cancer, in which respect they differ from those of organic life. The Fasciculi of Cru- veilhier, however, prove that small cancerous masses may be developed secondarily in the muscles of animal life, without any direct con- tinuity with the original disease ; and encepha- 12