3 ABDOMEN. The combination of muscle and aponeuro- sis in the composition of the moving walls of the abdomen is highly important; they are distributed according to the relative necessi- ties of contractility and resistance. Thus we observe where the former is required, muscle is the principal constituent; where, on the other hand, contractility may be dispensed with, as in the case where provision must be made for the transmission of vessels, &c. the powers of resistance are duly provided for, by means of strong tendinous expansions. Wherever great resistance is necessary, and such is the case, at the points where the pressure of the muscular walls upon the vis- cera, from the direction of the axes of the abdominal cavity, is more particularly directed, recourse is had to this organic element for protection. Some difference in the distribu- tion of aponeurosis is observable in man, and in large quadrupeds ; in the latter it abounds at the thoracic extremity of the abdominal cavity, in the former, at the inferior or pubic portion ; an argument, if such were necessary, of his destination for the erect posture. These aponeuroses form perfect sheets, except at the points where arched apertures of various sizes are left for the transmission of vessels, or for the commencement of canals, which are often occupied, in addition to the parts thus transmitted by cellular tissue, and pellets of adipose substance. The whole extent of the moveable walls may be traced from the bottom of the ster- num, along the margins of the inferior ribs, the transverse processes of the lumbar ver- tebrae, the ridge of the ilium, and stretching across like an arch, from the anterior superior spinous process of this bone to the angle of the pubis: it presents above a small depres- sion, scrobiculus cordis, in which the xiphoid cartilage may be felt; this body, constituting as it were a link between the sternum and linea alba, is cartilaginous, flexible, and elastic, more or less depressed in different subjects. About the middle is found the umbilicus, a species of cicatrix, the vestige of the opening which served to transmit the umbilical ves- sels. Below, the abdomen terminates at the pubis; laterally from this point, towards the ilium, it forms in connexion with the upper part of the thigh, the fold of the groin. The whole is divided into regions, which though arbitrary are useful alike for description and diagnosis, and which shall be noticed here- after. The upper and lower portions of this moveable wall are narrowed by the conver- gence of the ribs towards the sternum above, and of the ilia towards the pubis below; in the middle it passes round on each side to the transverse processes of the lumbar ver- tebrae, and in consequence of the absence of bone throughout this extensive region, it is naturally disposed to yield the most to any distending force. Before we enter upon the description of the muscles of the abdomen, it will be better, in order to understand their attachments, first to describe the aponeurotic expansion on the anterior part of the abdomen, and which is in fact produced by the tendons of these muscles. When the skin and superficial fascia have been removed from the fore part of the abdomen, an expanded surface of fascia presents itself, reaching from the sternum to the pubes, above occupying the space between the two exter- nal abdominal muscles, and below, that be- tween the two ilia, the pubes dividing this lower margin of the abdominal tendon into two distinct free oblique edges, which are termed Poupart’s ligament. On a closer con- templation of this general tendinous expan- sion, three particular opaque lines arrest the attention; a central one passing in the long axis of the abdomen from the sternum to the pubes, called the linea alba, and two lateral lines named the linea: semilunares, which sweep in the form of a crescent from the junction of the cartilage of the eighth with the seventh ribs, to the spinous processes of the pubes. The greater opacity of these lines, as com- pared with the rest of the fasciae, is caused by the conjunction and interlacement of the ten- dons of the three flat pairs of the abdominal muscles. Abdominal muscles.—Our observations on these shall be brief and general. The most external covers a considerable space anterior- ly, and laterally, extending from the lower and lateral part of the thorax down to the crista of the ilium, and from the spine of this bone to the pubis : from the ribs to the ilium its pos- terior edge is free ; its fibres run in various directions towards the linea alba ; it joins the tendon of the muscle just beneath it at the linea semilunaris; the edge extending from the ilium to the pubis is free towards the thigh, and thickened, particularly in its iliac portion, by its continuity with the tendon of the in- ternal muscle ; the part of it that is attached to the pubis is divided into two portions or pillars, leaving between them a space in which the spermatic cord in the male, and the round ligament in the female, pass out of the abdo- men. Beneath this external layer, a second muscle (the internal oblique) is spread, ex- tending from the bottom of the sternum and the cartilages of the ribs to the ilium, coher- ing with the iliac portion of the lower ten- dinous border of the preceding muscle ; it becomes tendinous at the linea semilunaris. Beneath this muscular layer another is con- cealed ; it extends farther behind towards the vertebrae, with which and the ilium it is con- nected by stronger fasciae, than either of the two superposed layers ; like them, it becomes tendinous at the linea semilunaris, and meets its fellow of the opposite side at the linea alba. Before I proceed to describe the straight and pyramidal muscles of the abdomen, it is important to contemplate the direction of the muscles already mentioned collectively, duly to appreciate how perfectly they are adapted to prevent the protrusion of the abdominal viscera, and to produce an equable muscular ressure upon them, during their contraction, t is to be observed how the fibres of the ex- ternal oblique muscle descend and terminate B 2