717 CATARACT. on both at the same time. The chief reason for operating on both at once, seems to be the advantages derived from saving time and anxiety to the patients, and preventing the necessity of farther weakening the consti- tution by a second application of the neces- sary antiphlogistic treatment. The strength of these arguments must be considered when applied to individual cases which come before the practitioner. In cases of congenital cataracts operations may in general be performed on both eyes with safety, when the patients are young, and under proper management, even at the age of only two or three months. The period of teething forsuch operations, however, should be avoided. There is an advantage in some cases derived from our operating upon one eye only at first, in consequence of our acquiring by it certain information both regarding the nature of the cataract, the constitution of the patient, and the effect of the operation performed ; which may be highly useful to us in selecting the opera- tion and conducting the cure of the other eye. 4. Should the patient undergo any particular preparation, before undergoing an operation for cataract ? The effect of an operation most to be guarded against, is inflammation of the eye, from the wound it must necessarily receive. A more than ordinary disposition to inflam- matory action in the system, therefore, is to be carefully obviated before the operation. If the patient is of a full and plethoric consti- tution, and more particularly when of intem- perate habits, an antiphlogistic regimen, pre- ceded by bleeding and purging, requires to be enforced for several weeks or months. The necessity for this, and the good effects which result from a spare and anti-plethoric state of the system, are strongly illustrated by the two cases, already mentioned in sec- tion ninth. These, no doubt, are extreme cases, selected for the sake of contrast; but others, followed by similar results, though in a less degree, are not uncommon. It may also be remarked that, in individuals strongly disposed to inflammation, it is not material what operation is adopted ; for the inflamma- tion following operations with the needle, proves sometimes as violent and destructive as that subsequent to extraction. But where the patient is in good health, of moderate fulness, and of temperate habits, no preparation is required, farther than a mo- derate diet for a short time previously, and some purgative medicine on the day before the operation. From symptoms of fulness of blood about the head, or the patient being of a full and plethoric habit, it may be necessary, in some cases, to subject the patient to a moderate bleeding before the operation. If there is any derangement of the digestive organs, as indi- cated by foulness of tongue, and other sym- ptoms, this state must be corrected by proper remedies before the patient is operated on. Individuals affected with or liable to ca- tarrhal, rheumatic, gouty, or other inflamma- tory diseases, should not be operated on in spring when this can be avoided, as an attack of any of these might aggravate inflammation of the eye, and prevent the success of an operation1. Persons otherwise healthy, and not subject to the diseases above mentioned, may be operated on at any season. 5. At what age should those affected with Congenital Cataract be operated on ? This question has been decided by the profession, that they should be operated on during infancy. The eyes of children affected with congenital cataract, acquire a rolling tremulous motion, which is either obviated or prevented by an early operation. In 1811, the late Mr. Gibson of Manchester communi- cated to the public2 his experience in the use of the couching needle in infants, after having fully ascertained that the age of five or six months is more favourable for operating than that of two years or any subsequent age. The late Mr. Saunders, of London, also, by experience and accurate observation greatly extended our knowledge of this subject. He came to the conclusion, that the most favourable time for operating, is when the child is between 18 months and 4 years of age. He found that after this age the rolling motion of the eyes became more inveterate and inconvenient to the patient, and that the retina faded in power for want of use3. Mr. Tyrrell thinks the operation should not be delayed beyond the third month. $ 12. Operations for the Removal of Cataract. It has been already remarked, that opera- tions of three kinds are practised for the removal of cataracts ; viz. those having for their object or principle the depression of the lens from the axis of vision, the extraction of the lens, and the removal of the lens by solu- tion and absorption. Before proceeding to describe particularly these operations, it will be proper to make a few remarks upon the position and duties of the patient, the operator, and his assistant ; for upon the proper conduct of each of these the success of operations greatly depends. The want of composure and steadiness on the part of the patient, the ignorance or awk- wardness of an assistant, may in an instant have the effect of defeating the success of the most dexterous operator. The patient may be either seated upon a chair or stool, of the height most convenient for the surgeon, or he may be laid horizon- tally upon a couch. When seated upon a chair, the operator sits or stands before the patient, when operating upon the left eye ; ' Mr. Mitldlemore suggests that before operating by extraction on a gouty person, an issue should be placed in one or both arms, v. ii. p. 120. 2 Ed. Med. Surg. Journ. vol. vii. m 394, 1811. 3 Sec bis Treatise, edited by Dr. Farrc, pages 17.5, 176. London, 1811.