CATHETERISM. 738 bladder, a manoeuvre which cannot be accom- plished with a deep-curved instrument. In introducing' a catheter of considerable curve, the movement of lowering the handle is short, and comparatively of limited extent; if the catheter be such a one as I am in the habit of employing, the curve of which is little more than that of a female catheter, the lower- ing movement must be augmented to counter- balance the diminution of the curve; if a straight instrument is made use of, the lower- ing movement must be so considerable, in order to compensate for the curvature of the canal, as to describe the best part of a semi- circle. If we compare the upper and under surfaces of the urethra, we shall find that they dilfer from each other in certain respects, that have not been yet alluded to. The inferior wall of the urethra not having any solid support, is soft and ample, and the bee of the catheter, while passing upon it, readily lifts it up, carries it off from the circumference of the canal, and the point of the sound being thus capped with the membrane, if the force be continued, it must be torn. The disposition of the superior sur- face, on the other hand, favours the passage of the instrument towards the bladder in a re- markable manner. It offers no depressions, no prominence of the prostate, no mouths of glands, no inequalities of surface, to arrest its progress, for the longitudinal folds, in which the muscular portion is thrown, when at rest, are unfolded in the lateral directions, by the bee of the catheter, and, therefore, as respects catheterism, they do not deserve to be ranked as obstacles. But even supposing the bee of the catheter to be so much misdirected, as to point directly against the upper surface, still the solid support it derives from the cavernous bodies,—from the symphisis pubis,—from the triangular ligament,—and from the dense or- ganization of the muscular portion, is such, that the laceration of this wall of the canal could not be effected without the most extreme violence. Hence it is, that on attentive examination of the false passages made during life, or after death, we find them invariably on the under surface of the canal, and, for the most part, leading out of the normal depressions that occur in its course. From the preceding remarks, the importance of the rule is obvious, of keeping constantly to the upper surface of the canal, as the best guide for our instrument, when catheterism is performed with a curved sound. In adhering to the direction, how- ever, the bee of the sound should not be made to rest on, or point too much against the mu- cous membrane, for this would excite pain, though it could not rupture the passage. Our chief aim should be, when the bee of the in- strument enters the isthmus of the urethra, (and until it arrives at this point, we do not contemplate any impediment to its progress, in the method I mean to propose) to have a perfect correspondence, when we begin to bring down the handle of the sound, between the concavity of the instrument and the con- vexity of the urethra. This is indispensable to the proper direction of the instrument. As the hand is lowered, the point of the catheter beyond the pubis is upraised ; a slight and suavid impulsion is now all that will be neces- sary to make it glide without effort or check into the bladder, and without the surgeon’s hand ceasing to have the consciousness of the gentle pressure which the point of the instru- ment makes on the guiding wall of the canal. Position of the patient for catheterism.— Before we take a view of the several pro- cesses recommended by authors for the per- formance of the various modes of catheter- ism, let us examine the position best adapted for the subject on whom the catheter is about to be employed. It may be asserted gene- rally, that the position most favourable to easy catheterism, is that in which the abdominal muscles, the suspensory ligament of the penis, and the muscles of the inferior extremities are fairly relaxed ; and that position is the recumbent one, in which the head and pelvis arc elevated, the thighs half fiexed upon the trunk, and kept asunder, the knees being thrown out. When the patient is thus placed, if pressure be made with the left hand on the pubis, and directed downwards on the face of the bone, all the relaxation that can be had by position will be obtained. But having stated thus much respecting the advantages of a horizontal posture, it should be added, that when catheterism is performed with a curved sound, the patient may take the erect posture, sit on the edge of a table or bed, with the feet hanging down, or supported, or he may rest his back against the wall, the feet being set wide asunder, without sensibly af- fecting the facility of the operation. When we make use of a straight inflexible instrument, the curvature of the urethra will be most easily effaced in the recumbent pos- ture ; but if we employ a straight, flexible in- strument, such as a wax bougie or a gum-elastic catheter, without a mandrin, the patient may stand against the wall. But in all cases where a straight inflexible instrument is employed, the facility of introducing it is greatest in the horizontal position, on account of the relaxa- tion of the suspensory ligament, which it so readily permits, if the surgeon will but take care to make pressure with his left hand down the promontory of the pubis, at the moment that the bee of the instrument arrives at the entrance of the isthmus of the urethra. When we sound in the erect posture, with a curved silver or gum-elastic catheter, it is not necessary to keep the shaft of our instru- ment in exact correspondence with the median line of the patient’s body, for the bee can be directed into the entrance of the isthmus or muscular portion of the urethra, while the shaft of the instrument corresponds with the hollow of the groin. Position of the surgeon.—When a patient is sounded in the recumbent posture, authors state that there arc two methods, either of 2