409 ARTICULATIONS. ligament, losing their contractile power, suffer the weight of the arm to be borne by the ligament alone. An example of it may also be seen in the sinking of the arch of the foot described by Mr. Key in the third number of the Guy’s Hospital Reports. 4. Synovial membrane.—We here arrive at the only highly organized tissue which enters into the composition of joints. The articular synovial membranes are thin, soft, and trans- lucent, well supplied with blood vessels, but not manifestly endowed with nerves, and secrete from their internal surface a viscid oily fluid, which serves to lubricate the motions of the hard structures. On the internal surface of many of the synovial capsules, chiefly at the margins of the cartilages, there are found plicae, or reduplications of the membrane, analogous to the valvulae conniventes of the intestines, and which contain within their folds, but external to the cavity of the joint, small pellets of fat, erroneously supposed by Havers and Portal to be glands secreting syn- ovia. The synovial membranes have been ranked, by Bichat and Beclard, among the serous, to which they present several analogies, but their peculiarities are sufficiently marked to con- stitute them a separate class. By the majo- rity of anatomists, among whom may be men- tioned W. Hunter, Soemmering, Bichat, Meck- el, and Beclard, they have been regarded as forming shut sacs, but this opinion has been impugned by Majendie, Gordon, Cruveilhier, Velpeau, and others, and as the question is one by the decision of which our pathological views must be considerably influenced, it will be necessary to enter into the discussion. It is affirmed by the authors last mentioned, that the synovial membrane is merely ex- tended between the extremities of the bones, in the form of a capsular membrane, and does not extend over the surface of the cartilage. The arguments which they advance in sup- port of this proposition are to the following effect:—1, Careful dissection does not sepa- rate from the surface of the cartilage any distinct membrane ; or, if a membrane be raised it is only a thin lamina of cartilage, which is made to assume that form. 2. In inspecting diseased joints, where the free syn- ovial membrane is densely injected, the car- tilaginous surface retains its natural colour and healthy aspect, nor can delicate injections be made to pass over the surface of the car- tilage. 3. If the joint of a living animal be freely exposed to the air, the cartilaginous surface becomes quite dry, while the synovial membrane extending between the bones is moistened by its natural secretion. 4. After disarticulations, when the cartilaginous sur- faces remain exposed to view for many days, no morbid change developes itself, indica- tive of the presence of a synovial mem- brane, and the cartilage at length scales off in patches, or is lost amidst a crowd of granu- lations. To these arguments it may be replied, that the synovial membrane covering cartilages is placed under circumstances widely different from those of a membrane expanded between the ends of bones. Exposed to constant pres- sure between two dense structures, it must necessarily have a most intimate union with the tissue over which it is spread, and the same cause must forbid the development in the normal state of vessels sufficiently large to convey red blood. We have an example of this adaptation of structures to meet par- ticular circumstances in the change which the tunica conjunctiva assumes when it is ex- panded over the cornea. An analogous ex- ample is found in the arachnoid lining the dura mater, which from the comparative in- frequency of its morbid changes, and the closeness of its union with the fibrous mem- brane to which it is superposed, has been affirmed by some not to exist: though the haemorrhage which sometimes takes place be- tween the two tissues as pointed out by Dr. Hodgkin', and many other evidences, are conclusive proofs to the contrary. It must be granted, therefore, that the synovial mem- brane, when reflected over cartilage, under- goes a great modification, but the following facts tend strongly to show that it still exists:— 1. By careful dissection, especially after continued maceration, a membrane can be distinctly raised from the surface of the carti- lage, thin and transparent like a serous mem- brane, and continuous with the loose synovial membrane stretching between the bones. A more easy demonstration is effected by in- cising a layer of the cartilage, and then bend- ing it back until the base by which it remains attached is broken: it will still hang pendu- lous to the surface of the joint, and if it be torn away cautiously, a piece of membrane, half an inch or an inch long, may be brought away with it. It cannot be supposed, that this membrane is a thin layer of cartilage, be- cause cartilage being made up of perpendicu- lar fibres attached to the bone, will not sepa- rate at right angles to its fibre or “ across the grain,” and also because the membrane thus demonstrated is so flexible that it may be rolled up, and again spread out, which would be impossible with a layer of cartilage how- ever thin. “ The existence of synovial mem- brane or cartilage,” says Sir B. Brodie, “ may be always demonstrated by a careful dissec- tion.” “ I am convinced by dissection,” says Lar- rey2, “that a very fine and delicate prolonga- ation of the internal fold of the synovial cap- sule covers the articular surface of the carti- lage, to which this membranous pellicle is so intimately united that we can detach it only with the greatest difficulty and most delicate dissection After having raised 1 Hodgkin’s Lectures on the Morbid Anatomy of the Serous and Mucous Membranes, vol. i. 2 Mdmoircs dc Campagncs et Chirurgic Militairc, tom. ii. p. 425.