178 FARCY. by pustules, cords, and doughy patches more or less circumscribed, by engorgement of the limbs, and sometimes by alterations of the tendinous sheaths, and even of the bones themselves. Many horses have pustules, or farcinous cords, without presenting nasal discharge, engorgement of the submaxillary lymphatic ganglions, or other symptoms of glanders, a circumstance which explains the less serious character of chronic farcy, when compared with that of farcy in its acute form. In chronic farcy, free from complication, there is no fever, none of the principal functions arc disturbed, and if there be no swelling of the limbs, the horses may be employed in their usual labour. I have, in several instances, seen the disease characterized but by a few pustules, thinly scattered over the body and limbs. These pustules, about the size of a pea or a nut, are indolent, and do not form abscesses till after the space of a week or two. They then become covered with a brownish yellow crust, firmly adherent, and as it were embossed in the skin ; around, and under the crust, the finger distinguishes a slight degree of induration. If the eruption be considerable on a limb, it swells, and the animal soon walks lame. I have seen in the course of three months, one of the hind limbs, or the head and neck of the horse, become successively covered with such a number of pustules, that the skin entirely deprived of hair, and covered with crusts and ulcers, presented a most hideous aspect. The ulcers, situated sometimes around the lips and nostrils, sometimes on the internal surface of the limbs, and near the ham-strings, furnished a thick fetid matter, which oozed out abund- antly from beneath the crusts as soon as these were detached. In these cases of inveterate farcy, loss of appetite, progressive emaciation, cough, and a kind of hectic, announce a more or less speedy death ; and on opening the body we often find alterations of the lungs, more espe- cially in the form of lobular pneumonia, farci- nous ulcerations in the larynx and trachea, and a few glanderous elevations or ulcerations in the nostrils, even though no discharge had taken place during life. In the acute farcy of the horse, the skin is less adherent to the farcinous cords than in the acute farcy, presents a smooth surface, and is free of pain. These cords present knots of a less defined form than those of acute farcy ; they are formed by engorged lymphatic vessels and ganglions, in which is depositeil a whitish yellow matter resembling in appearance the matter of soft- ened tubercle, or certain kinds of semi-solid creamy pus. The engorged lymphatic gan- glions are in general paler and firmer than in the healthy state, and their tissue is infiltrated with this matter of tuberculous appearance. The size of the ganglions is doubled, tripled, quadrupled, and they may attain much greater dimensions. I have seen a horse whose limbs were covered with chronic farcinous eruption, and on whose chest were several tumours, each as large as a child’s head. I may here observe, that the diagnosis in some of these cases of chronic engorgement of the lymphatic vessels and ganglions may remain doubtful, when they are not accompanied by farcinous eruption. In the solidipedes, engorgements sometimes occur, which have a strong resem- blance to the tumours which are observed on persons affected with scrofula. Nor does an anatomical examination suffice to remove the uncertainty of the diagnosis, for in farcy, as in scrofula, these swollen ganglions are infil- trated with matter of a tuberculous appear- ance. The inoculation on another animal of the matter of these ganglions is a resource not to be relied on, as it but rarely gives rise to the development of farcy, even when it has been taken from horses that had previously presented farcinous eruptions. The co-exist- ence of caries, of thickening of the periosteum, and of some other lesions of the bones may also occur in cases of farcinous infection, as well as in others more or less analogous to the scrofulous affections in man. However, when such engorgements are preceded by farcinous pustules, though they may have disappeared a month or more, or when horses with these tumours become glanderous, all uncertainty on this point is at an end. In solidipedes, attacked with chronic farcy', there are formed in the cellular tissue of the body and limbs flattened tumours, which con- tain at their commencement a ropy matter resembling a strong solution of gum. These tumours sometimes inflame accidentally, and when they are cut into this gelatiniform fluid issues, mixed with blood and true pus. I have seen these tumours more especially in the but- tocks. As to the engorgement of the limbs in chronic farcy, it also offers alterations distinct from those of acute farcy. In the places where the pustules have been, the skin, white, furfura- ceous, and bald, presents numerous cicatrices ; it is thick, indurated, and strongly adherent to the subcutaneous cellular tissue, which is hard and somewhat lardaceous, especially in cases of very inveterate farcy. The veins rarely contain any fibrinous clots, but their walls are thickened, and in some places their calibre appears to be obliterated. In chronic farcy the eruption and farcinous cords disappear sometimes spontaneously, after having existed several months. In some cases it is only a long time after, that the dis- ease shows itself on other parts of the body, or in the parts in which it had appeared ori- ginally. After the destruction of the farci- nous pustules by fire, or after the extirpation of the farcinous cords and engorged ganglions, the horses also may assume the appearance of perfect health, and be again employed at labour. But sooner or later fresh eruptions take place, or they become glanderous. In regard to duration, the chronic farcy varies from several months to several years,