CANCER, TREATMENT OF. 638 of the blood at all periods and under all cir- cumstances of the disease shall have been undertaken, these questions are destined to remain undecided. This class of symptoms appears often to be modified by the species of cancer. According to Laennec fever is absent during the greater part of the course of encephaloid, and in many cases death occurs without any percep- tible acceleration of the pulse having ever been noticed. When fever does exist, it appears rather to depend on accidental cir- cumstances than on the mere presence of the morbid tissue. Emaciation does not or- dinarily come on till the disease has existed for a considerable time, but once set in, rapidly advances to marasmus. Velpeau’s case, already frequently adverted to, proves that the disease may occupy a vast number of organs and exist for a number of years (six at least) without producing notable loss of flesh or discoloration of the skin. In other instances, on the contrary, a limited accumulation in a single organ excites the most formidable train of general symptoms. Colloid, as Cruveilhier states, is the species of cancer accompanied with the least marked and most tardily developed signs of constitu- tional suffering ; and in the majority of cases of cancer of the stomach without local symp- toms, observed by him, the disease was of this kind. Pockels met with a case of gastric colloid in which none of the usual evidences of cancerous disorganization existed, except the straw-coloured tint of the skin. (Muller.) In respect of the influence of organs on the cachexia, the mamma, uterus, and stomach are unquestionably the most commonly at- tended with its intensest forms. Andral affirms' “ that cancer of the stomach produces the greatest degree of emaciation ; that females whose cervix uteri has been totally destroyed by cancer, retain their natural looks to the last.” the latter clause of this statement assuredly refers to exceptional cases. (h.) Diagnosis.—The diagnosis of cancer- ous growths of external parts previously to the occurrence of ulceration, sometimes presents considerable difficulty. They may by possi- bility be confounded with all tumours which produce no change in the colour of the skin or temperature of the surface, and in which distinct fluctuation of a liquid is not percep- tible. (Begin.) The subject of diagnosis will, however, be considered under the head of each organ, and it is therefore unnecessary to multiply general remarks in this part of our article. The characters of the ulcer which we have described at length, its everted and ragged edges, its indurated base, the peculiar fetor of the discharge, the tendency to fungating growth, the frequent occurrence of haemorrhage, form a group of phenomena which combined can scarcely mislead. But in secondary syphilitic cases the most ex- perienced surgeon sometimes feels doubt as 1 Additions it l’Auscult. Mediate, p. 260. Par. 1836. to the nature of the affection, a doubt which is not in all cases cleared up by the history of the patient’s previous life. Even simple ul- cerations of the tongue from the irritation of a carious tooth will occasionally closely re- semble cancerous destruction, and be hardly distinguishable therefrom until the removal of the irritating body, followed by rapid cicatri- zation, proves the innocent nature of the sore. (i.) Prognosis.—As regards the ultimate termination of the disease, the question of prognosis is involved in that of curability, which will be presently considered. With respect to its mean duration, our application in particular cases of the general result already given must be materially modified by the species of cancer, the organ affected, the stage of the local process, the activity of the growth, the amount and constancy of pain endured, and above all perhaps by the con- dition of the general health, the degree to which the nutritive and other functions arc affected by the presence of the morbid mass. As a general truth, cancerous tumours which have apparently commenced to form sub- sequently to the receipt of a local injury are more susceptible of being delayed in their progress by treatment, than those in the evo- lution of w'hich no such influence is traceable. § 4.—Therapeia. Before entering on the subject of treat- ment, it seems natural to say a few words on a point which has been the theme of warm controversy—the curability of the disease. A disease is capable of cure either by a natural process or by art. The former may be generally referred to the heads of resolu- tion, and of altered nutrition ; the one ex- emplified in the disappearance of inflammatory changes, the other in the conversion of tu- berculous matter into an innocuous, creta- ceous, or calcareous concretion. Now one of the most essential attributes of cancerous substance is an unswerving tendency to grow'; its nature is opposed to resolution. Yet there would be temerity in denying the possibility of the latter occurrence. Mr. Travers relates that “ the solution of chloride of lime effected the absorption of a large tumour (in the course of some months) re- garded by competent authorities as scirrhus, in a lady w-hose other breast had been extir- pated for that disease. Not long after she died of asthma from diseased lungs; the scirrhous tubercle appearing not only in the chest but in several of the abdominal viscera.” We cannot regard the connexion of this resolution and the use of the chloride other- wise than as a mere coincidence : perhaps, as in Recamier’s case, there was here only me- tastasis and not disappearance of the morbid matter. Researches in comparative patho- logy appear to have shown that cancerous masses may become the seat of an altered form of nutrition leading to a change in their composition tantamount to a cure. M. Trous-