543 BURNS AND SCALDS. ration is embarrassed ; cough may be present, and, perhaps, pain on deep inspiration. As the febrile symptoms proceed, there is rest- lessness, insomnia, red and dry condition of the tongue, sometimes nausea and vomiting, attended with great nervous excitement. This sympathetic irritation of the viscera is often sufficiently intense to occasion death. Thus many patients, who have survived the primary effects, die between the fourth and ninth day, from the violence of inflammatory reaction. Dependent on the excessive stimu- lation of the arterial system, gangrene is a result much to be dreaded, as tending speedily to terminate existence. In some rare in- stances, affections of a purely spasmodic na- ture are induced during this interval, with- out any notable precursory inflammatory re- action. Thus patients are carried off by teta- nus and convulsions. I happened to be pre- sent at the post-mortem examination of a girl, a patient in St. George’s Hospital, who was attacked with convulsions, and died in a few hours, on the ninth day from having her arms scalded. A parallel case is related by Dr. Mac- farlane. In habitual drunkards delirium tre- mens is by no means rare. In delicate females, during the period of utero-gestation, prema- ture labour is frequently the consequence. About the fifth or sixth day apoplectic seizures sometimes occur ; these, Dupuytrcn ascribes to individual peculiarities. Dr. Cumin, of Glasgow, has recorded seve- ral cases of burn, in which death took place, in consequence of phlegmasiae, developed at the period in question. From a survey of the pathological appearances, he is led to conclude that internal inflammation consequent on in- jury from burn may arise in the head, in the chest, and in the abdomen ; and that the ten- dency of the inflammatory action is to pro- duce effusion within the cavities of serous membranes. He admits that the mucous membrane participates in the inflammation, but not to the extent that some French patho- logists have asserted. Dr. Cumin’s deductions, though apparently confirmed by the cases de- tailed in his paper, are somewhat at variance with the experience of Dupuytren, who men- tions his having found manifest signs of acute irritation in the stomach and intestinal canal. The other viscera, as the brain and lungs, were less constantly, and less profoundly altered, although traces of sanguineous con- gestion and inflammatory changes were fre- quently perceived. Dr. Cumin has moreover shown, that though distant internal parts sympathize with burned surfaces, yet those immediately sub- jacent suffer most remarkably. The pain occasioned by the secondary inflammation of subjacent tissues to those which the fire has injured, is neither so acute nor so irritating after burns of the fourth, fifth, and sixth degrees, as after those of the third. This phenomenon Begin conceives to be due to the circumstance, that the cellular tissue, and adjoining soft parts, the seat of the phleg- masia, are less sensitive, and more dilatable than the cutis. Should the patient have withstood the first impression of the burn, and the subsequent in- flammatory reaction, great caution must be exercised in pronouncing a decided prognosis in favour of recovery. For even after the subsidence of fever, when he is apparently going on well, his appetite good, his pulse but little above the standard of health, ex- tensive experience has shown that his con- valescence is still beset with many dangers, and that these favourable appearances are but too often fallacious. If the lesion be pro- found, and some of the great vessels impli- cated in its course, the fall of the eschar must be contemplated with the utmost anxiety. For should it remove with it a portion of the vascular tunics, it will necessarily leave a gaping orifice, capable of furnishing a haemor- rhage sufficiently copious to compromise life. I had an opportunity of witnessing an instance of this kind in a patient in the Glasgow Infirmary, in whom the femoral artery was ruptured. Again, the exposed vessels, though sound, may become inflamed, either from the irritation produced by the burn, the contact of air, or foreign matter, and so give rise to accidents of the most grave description. It is a remarkable circumstance, that people go on well till the separation of the slough, then rapidly die, without our being able to assign any reason for their death. When the sloughs have been thrown off, and suppuration is advancing, the patient may die from inanition, or from purulent reabsorption. When the suppuration is excessive, unless the patient have strong bodily powers, he will sink under it in a few days. Nature goes on well to a certain point; but when a copious discharge is set up, more than the constitution can bear, recovery is hopeless. The stomach begins to flag, it becomes squeamish, rejects the food. The pulse becomes frequent, and progressively weaker, till it cannot be traced. Hectic and marasmus close the scene. These alterations for the worse sometimes follow each other in rapid succession. Again, the continued constitutional excitement kept up during this period, may call into activity latent morbid predisposition. Thus tubercles, whose existence had been previously unsuspected, are developed in an acute manner, pass rapidly into the stage of suppuration, and carry off the patient. Or he may bear up for a longer time, and then fall a victim to insidious chronic disease of the alimentary mucous membrane, as pathological anatomy has abundantly proved. Where the pus becomes altered in its qualities, is absorbed and conveyed into the course of the circulation, it gives rise to a train of symptoms of a very grave description. These may be ascribed to the consequent vitiation of the vital fluid, or the obstruction which the pus creates in the circulation of the pulmonary capillaries *. The effects thus 1 Vignal, 0|>. cit.