ABDOMEN. sacrum, upwards and outwards over the ridges of the ilia. Fig. 4, shows FlS- 4- the posterior portions of the lumbar regions (1, 1) ; and (2) the centre of this zone. The dotted lines show the ascent of the cavity of the abdomen within the basis of the thorax. In termina- ting our de- scription of the parietes of the abdomen, we should remark, in the distribution of the parts entering and issuing from the cavity, what great care has been bestowed, in guarding against protru- sions of its contents. An illustration may be borrowed from a comparision of the cavities of the thorax and abdomen. In the former, a state of permanent distension, provided for in the structure of its partly bony walls, resists the extremes both of distension and collapse. When the muscles have dilated the chest, the capacity of the air-cells of the lungs is aug- mented, and the air rushes down the trachea ; the dilating effort being now suspended, the elasticity of the bones of the thorax, and of the lungs themselves, is sufficient to expel the air out of the chest ; but to both these states there is a limit which is soon attained. The opening by which parts are allowed to pass into this cavity is large, the tendency of the contained parts to protrude being com- paratively slight. In the latter, the reverse is the case; the tendency of the organs to escape from the pressure which they are under- going in every direction, is so great that it requires to be counteracted by the dissemi- nation of the organs to be transmitted, over different points. The parts transmitted are visceral, vascular, nervous, or cellular. Now, if but one opening existed for the transmission of all those parts, protrusions from the upper or lower boundary of the abdomen, would be constantly occurring. Before we pass from the walls of the abdo- men to the organs they enclose, let us examine against what point of those walls the pressure of the internal parts must be chiefly directed. The axis of the cavity is not perpendicular. The slight inclination backwards of its upper extremity, and the still deeper deflection, back- wards and downwards, of the lower one, to form the excavation of the pelvis, oblige us to consider the direction of a separate axis for each. This difference of direction is advantageous in decomposing the superfluous force of mus- cular action. The direction of the superior axis in the erect posture will correspond to that of a line drawn from the centre of the diaphragm to the pubis ; that of the pelvic portion, ascending from the coccyx, will bisect the long axis at a point about midway between the pubis and umbilicus. The relative direc- tions of both will vary of course according to the different attitudes. In this position, as well as in the attitude of kneeling or riding, all the force of the muscular bag, constituting the walls of the abdomen, is concentrated at its lowest part; thus pressed upon, the viscera are naturally impelled along the inclined plane formed by the iliac fossae, against the crural arch and the sides of the pubis. But when the body is bent forward, as in the act of expelling the faeces, the two axes, instead of forming an obtuse angle at their point of junction, come nearly into the same line; the direction of the force, instead of being in the line of the pubis, points towards the coccyx. We shall see on examining the internal organs, the provision made to obviate the effects which would be likely to result from this direction of the pressure against the lower part of the abdominal walls, by relieving them from the weight of the viscera themselves. The proportion between the power of the muscles and the resistance of the viscera is so justly poised, that except under circum- stances of unusual violence, there is no liabi- lity to injury to either the one or the other Unyielding rigidity of the walls exposes the internal organs to laceration. A horse strains violently under his load, and drops down dead,—the aorta is ruptured. A person falls from a height, the muscles contract violently, and the liver or spleen is ruptured. In other circumstances this rigidity may have a protective effect. A person falls from a vehicle heavily laden ; the wheels passing over his abdomen, the internal organs are un- injured ; the violent contraction of the mus- cles has enabled the abdominal viscera to escape the crushing which must have other- wise been mortal. A fatal lesion may even be the consequence of the opposite condition. The abdominal walls are totally relaxed ; their suppleness and elasticity is such as to enable them to transmit the action of a contunding force to the internal organs, capable of de- stroying them, while they themselves remain uninjured. Mr. Jobert relates a case, in which a person with an irreducible hernia received the kick of a horse in the abdomen. He had the usual symptoms of fainting, vomiting, &c. of strangulated hernia ; an operation was per- formed which was useless ; the jejunum, after death was found to be completely divided. Internally, the abdomen forms a perfect cavity, the boundary of which is everywhere traceable, and is lined throughout by a serous membrane called the peritoneum, which, by prolongations within itself, more or less com- pletely invests the several organs, and thus suspends and maintains them in their respec- tive regions. This serous membrane consists of two sacs, the larger one being that which is opened in a section of the parietes, and the smaller one, that which is behind the sto- mach, and which is consequently hidden from view. The two sacs are continuous with each