77 AMAUROSIS. and partly by lubricating the alimentary canal by the exhibition of proper medicines, in order that the concretion may be discharged along with the feces, or may descend into the rec- tum, from which it may be artificially ex- tracted.—9thly, That after the disease has been of long standing, and when a sac has been formed, which retains the concretion in a certain place, it cannot be removed, should it be lodged within the colon, but by an inci- sion, as there is no chance of dissolving it by any medicine given internally. In conclusion I may remark, that it would be extremely desirable, should any favourable cases occur, to have this operation subjected to a fair test of experiment. Under such cir- cumstances it would be for the operator to re- flect how far his success might be promoted by inducing, either by the judicious applica- tion of caustic, or other means, such a degree of inflammatory action over the site of the tumour, as might establish adhesion between the two folds (the parietal and intestinal) of the peritoneum, whereby the opening of the bowel might be effected without opening the serous cavity itself. (.Alexander Monro.) AMADOU, see AGARIC. AMAUROSIS, from agavpou, to obscure. gutta serena, cataracta nigra, Lat. ; Schwarzer Staar, Ger. ; amaurose, Fr. ; gotta serena, Ital. ; drop serene, blindness, Eng. The derivation of the term does not give an adequate idea of its present acceptation, which refers to affections of the nervous ap- paratus of vision only, and does not include the diseases of the cornea, lens, &c. which so frequently obscure the sight. The same objection applies to the terms of more recent introduction, as—Dysopia, from Svq, bad, difficult ; and w\p, the eye (Cullen). Amblyopia, from agfiXvQ, obtuse or dull ; and Onp, the eye (Savage). The terms con- sidered synonymous in the older writers evi- dently refer to those forms of the disease which are not attended with any visible change of structure, but in which the pupil remains black and bright ; as—Mydriasis, from /xvScuo, to corrupt by moisture (Celsus) ; Gutta se- rena (Arabian); Suffusio nigra; Black ca- taract. The term Amaurosis is now employed to denote a diminution or loss of sight, from disturbance or change in some part of the nervous apparatus belonging to, or communi- cating with, the organ of vision. It comprehends by far the most important of the ophthalmic affections, or those which most frequently involve loss of sight, which are least understood, and in which medical or surgical aid therefore avails least. It is only since ophthalmic diseases have been investigated upon scientific principles, that we have begun properly to understand the great variety and importance of the amau- rotic affections ; and that their intricacies have been in some degree unravelled, so as to enable us to combat them with more cer- tainty of success. Our knowledge of them is still however far from perfect, although their distinctions are becoming gradually more and more developed under the light of science. There can be no better proof of the preva- lent ignorance respecting this class of diseases than the very frequent recommendation and adoption of one particular remedy in nearly all cases, and this even by men who profess and obtain credit for scientific inquiry. The want of the external symptoms which characterize most of the ophthalmic diseases has perhaps induced and promoted such error in regard to this malady, and tended greatly to impede the scientific investigation of it. Some forms of amaurosis can only be detected and distinguished by a most patient inquiry, aided by experience and science; for the general symptoms of some different forms of the disease so closely approximate, that a su- perficial and hasty inquiry cannot suffice to form a correct diagnosis. Error in diagnosis unfortunately involves error in treatment, so as to occasion in many cases loss of sight, which, under correct management, might have been saved or restored. Anatomical Division. — The nervous appa- ratus destined for visual purposes may be pro- perly divided into three portions. 1. The retina, belonging to the globe it- self. 2. The optic nerve, connecting the retina and the brain. 3. The cerebral portion, connected with the optic nerve, and forming part of the cere- bral mass or brain. Amaurosis may result from disturbance in part, parts, or the whole of this apparatus : thus, disease may affect separately the retina, the optic nerve, or the brain, or it may in- fluence the optic nerve and retina together, or it may extend through the three parts at once. From the known principles of nervous power, it must be obvious that any disease affecting the cerebral portion of this nervous apparatus, or the optic nerve, must influence the extreme part of the nerve, or the retina, so that disease cannot exist in either of the former without producing a diminution or destruction of the functions of the latter. Pathological Division.—In considering the pathology of this nervous apparatus, I believe that I cannot adopt a division which offers more practical utility than that suggested by the anatomical arrangement. First, therefore, I shall treat of such dis- eases or injuries as affect the retina itself. Secondly, of such as influence the orbital portion of the optic nerve. Thirdly, of such as affect the cerebral por- tion of the nerve. And lastly, of such as extend through the entire nervous apparatus. Further, I purpose to separate the diseases in each division into two classes, viz.—those which are not attended with any appreciable change in structure, and are termed func- tional, and those which are attended with some change, and are called organic.