ABSCESS. 40 Modes of opening Abscesses.—When puru- lent collections occur in the tonsils, pharynx, behind the walls of the oesophagus, of the glottis, and even in the larynx, they may be sometimes evacuated by the use of an emetic, as those occurring in the course of the intes- tinal canal, particularly near the rectum, may be by the administration of a purgative. When the wall of the abscess is thin upon the mucous membrane of the oesophagus or rectum, the commotion produced by the ef- forts of vomiting or purging will often suffice to effect the bursting of the abscess ; the cure immediately follows. But though many reasons, such as the inaccessibility of the abscess, or the pusillanimity of the patient, may induce us to give a trial to an emetic, in such cases we should, nevertheless, when there is any coun- ter-indication to this plan, arising out of the state of the patient’s health,—if there be irri- tation of the stomach, marked by dryness and redness of the tongue,—it should be most care- fully avoided ; for this would be but incurring a great risk for an uncertain good. But when the tongue is soft, large, and slightly coated, the mouth and pharynx foul with thick viscid mu- cus, and there is no sensibility at the epigaster, then there is a prospect of the action of the emetic being followed with good effect. It should be added, that the bursting of abscess in the mouth, pharynx, and rectum, is not un- frequently promoted by gargles and lave- ments. The emollients in these cases act in the same manner as the maturative, employed in subcutaneous abscess to hasten the arrival of the matter to the surface, by the softening of the skin, and the stimulation of the purulent cyst. When the suppuration is fully established, and shows a tendency to accumulate rather than to be resorbed, it will be the surgeon’s duty to evacuate the matter, and for this pur- pose several modes may be employed ; that by incision being by far the most expeditious, simple, and generally employed. The instrument most commonly employed for this purpose is a spring-opening bistouri, as it possesses several advantages in respect of solidity and the capability of being wielded, over the abscess lancet, which is now but little used in any case. The mode of performing the operation is very simple (see Incision for a more minute description). The situation in which the opening should be made, as well as the extent and number of them, will vary according to the circumstances of the case ; in general, however, they should not be so long or deep as the older surgeons were in the habit of making them ; for independently of the deformity of a large cicatrix, the speedy healing of the abscess is rather retarded than hastened by those unnecessarily extensive divi- sions of the whole superficial paries covering the collection of matter. However, when an abscess is deep-rooted, the incision must of necessity be extensive ; the object being in these cases to secure a sufficient opening for the exit of the matter without fear of its closing up too soon. In general it will be proper, whenever prac- ticable, to make the opening at the most de- pending part of the collection, in order that its own weight may favour its evacuation. But this will often be impossible ; for in some in- stances an extensive abscess will have ripened and pointed in the centre, while the matter, at its most depending point, is still at a con- siderable distance from the surface. In such a case, the opening may be made where the abscess has pointed, care being taken when the dressings are changed to prevent lodgment of the matter, by pressing upon its circum- ference and lower part in particular. When the collection, for due motives, is opened at its thinnest and most prominent, and not at its lowest point, the inconvenience may be reme- died to a great extent, when it is possible, by position aided by gentle and gradual compres- sion, making the matter tend towards the open- ing. But when this cannot be effected, and still more especially when the purulent cavity is irregular, ramifying amongst the resisting parts, thus forming smaller cavities having but narrow connexions with the parent focus, it becomes imperative to make multiplied coun- ter-openings, under the penalty, if neglected, of the retained pus becoming stagnant and de- composed ; in which condition it loses all relation, however remote, to the living parts, reacting upon them as dead deleterious matter. The absorption of this putrescent fluid, differing toto caelo in its qualities from pus, is speedily followed by fever, loss of appetite, diarrhoea, rapid wasting ; the sources of nutri- tion are stopped, and the patient falls into extreme marasm. These counter-openings should be made as soon as the necessity for them is discovered, and should be numerous enough to obviate every impediment to the free exit of the matter. They may be made either by pressing the pus into each of the small cavities, and dividing it with the bis- touri, when thus swelled up with matter, or by passing a director or female sound into the superior opening until it reaches the bottom of the cavity, when the wall is divided on the point of the instrument. The effect of this practice is speedily manifested; sleep and appetite return, the system throws off the putrid poison it had been imbibing, and the healing process sets in in the upper abscess. The dressing after an opening has been made is by no means unimportant. When the irritation is still unabated, it will be highly useful to allow the wound to bleed, and the abscess to unload itself, before any dressing is applied ; the walls should not be pressed painfully in order to force the matter out, as this would tend to keep up irritation, and could have no good effect. Whenever the engorgement of the purulent cyst or sur- rounding parts is considerable, which is always the case when circumstances compel the pre- mature opening of the abscess, the parts should be covered with cataplasms or other emollients. This treatment is principally in- dicated in the acute abscess. How opposite our treatment in chronic