EAR, AND HEARING, DISEASES OF. 47 Pulse 88, small, weak, and intermitting ; the temperature of the skin below the natural standard ; there was no stupor, stertor, nor vertigo, the debility seemed alone to demand attention. The haemorrhage returned to some extent almost daily, for about a month, when it ceased, and the general debility during that time increased. The right half of the body laboured under paralysis agitans from a fort- night after the beginning of the illness, and continued about five weeks, when considera- ble amendment took place both as respects it and the general state of the system. Having, however, over-exerted herself, she fell into a state of general prostration, and so continued till her death, which took place about six weeks afterwards. The mental faculties con- tinued unimpaired. Autopsy.—Much emaciation. The lower part of the right ear gone ; the remaining portion cicatrized. The meatus externus was much wider than natural. The dura mater presented no unnatural appearance, except in one spot, about the diameter of a sixpence, opposite the internal auditory foramen, which seemed somewhat darker in colour than it should be, but not thickened nor adherent on either side. There was no effusion of serum, lymph, or pus, but a clot of blood about the size of a pea was found ex- actly at the entrance of the internal meatus. There was some slight appearance of what was taken to be softening of the brain over the right petrous bone, which was completely carious'. A prominent symptom in the preceding case wTas hemorrhage from the ear. In illustration of this point, the following cases are given. Case XII. A young gentleman, eleven years of age, was recovering from a severe attack of scarlatina, in consequence of which both ears had suppurated, when, upon the fifteenth day, a large quantity of blood was suddenly dis- charged from the right side. During the six succeeding days the bleeding returned three times, to the extent, by computation, of a pound on each occasion. The attending physician, Dr. James Wood, called in Mr. Syme. It was deemed proper to place a ligature on the carotid artery, as it was sup- posed to be the source of the haemorrhage. Bleeding recurred during the operation, and twice again, to a small extent, not exceeding a few tea-spoonfuls, in the course of the fol- lowing evening and night. For several days afterwards, there was hardly any appearance of blood, but symptoms of cerebral excite- ment came on, and the case terminated fa- tally on the eleventh day after the operation. On examination it was found that the ca- rotid artery w'as not concerned in the disease ; * Account of a case in which death ensued, in con- sequence of nitric acid having been poured into the car, &c. By J. Morrison, M.D. M.R.C.S.L. and Surgeon to the Newry Dispensary and Fever Hospital. In Dublin Medical Journal for March, 1836, vol. ix. p. 99. but that a small ulcerated aperture, in the osseous septum between the termination of the lateral sinus and the cavity of the ear, had permitted the blood to escape from this vessel *. The practice adopted in this case appears to have been suggested by the success with which a similar practice was attended in the following, in w'hich Mr. Syme2 tied the com- mon carotid on account of haemorrhage from the ear and fauces of the right side. The patient was a delicate boy, nine years of age. He wras attacked with sore throat, first on the left side and then on the right. After this there remained a painful external swelling, between the upper part of the larynx and the mastoid muscle, which increased gradually, extending upwards to the jaw% and finally to the tube of the external ear. A discharge of pus now took place from the ear, followed by a flow of blood, first from the ear, and then from the fauces. After the operation, bleed- ing from the fauces occurred more than once; but, in the course of two or three months, the boy was as wrell as before the commence- ment of his illness. Bleeding from the ear not unfrequently attends injuries of the head, indicating that fracture has implicated the base of the skull, and extended to the bony parts of the ear. Recovery, in some cases has taken place, though with deafness on the side affected. Perforation of the mastoid process. Perforation of the mastoid process for the purpose of throwing injections into the mid- dle ear in supposed cases of obstruction, has been performed ; but, even if it were likely to be attended with advantage, it is a proceeding unnecessarily severe for what may be effected in a simpler manner. The unfortunate result of the operation in the person of Dr. Berger, physician to the king of Denmark, more perhaps than a just perception of its uselessness, brought perfora- tion of the mastoid process into discredit, M. Dzeimiris3 endeavours to show that the ope- ration has been undeservedly laid aside ; but a perusal of the cases he has collected, and the remarks he makes on them, will show that he confounds those cases in which the mastoid process was perforated for the pur- pose of throwing injections into the middle ear, with those in which it was opened merely for the evacuation of matter, pointing at the place already softened by caries. Except in the latter case, the operation is certainly not admissible. 1 Cases from the Clinical Practice of Professor Syme. Reported by J. Henderson Hardie, M.D. in the Edin- burgh Monthly Journal of Medical Science, No. iii. 2 Edinburgh Med. and Surg. Journal, vol. xxxix. p. 319. Edinburgh, 1833. a De la Perforation dc l'Apophyse Mastoide dans diverses affections de ses cellules, et dans quelques cas de surdite. In L’Experience, 10th April, 1838. No. 32.