ANEURISM. 256 to the bad effects which must ensue from in- cluding a nerve in the ligature ; in some of the early cases of ligature of this vessel, the failure of the operation by sphacelus, might doubtless be attributable to this cause. In Desault’s case, the brachial plexus was in- cluded in the ligature, and the whole arm mortified ; and in White’s case, where the plexus was also tied with the artery, the same result ensued. Keate, the surgeon-general, operated for an aneurism, that had already burst, by first cutting down on the artery in this situation ; but, on finding that the artery pulsated below the ligature, he placed another ligature higher up, near the first rib. Cham- berlaine, of Kingston, Jamaica, operated in such a manner, as to combine the method above described, with that which is employed in reaching the vessel close under the clavicle, making one incision transversely under the clavicle, the other obliquely along the border of the pectoralis major, and everting the L shaped flap ; his patient recovered in less than a month. (See No. 2, fig. 80.) Fig. 80. Fig. 80. No. 1. Sedillot's plan of arriving at the ca- rotid, by cutting down between the sternal and. clavi- cular portions of the sterno-mastoid muscle, a, the carotid artery, the internal jugular vein b, lying to its outside ; c, the ligature in t)ie eye of the aneurism needle, d, which is placed under the artery. No. 2, a triangular wound, in the upper border of which is seen the clavicular attachment of the pectoralis major; the flap hangs down, and exposes the pecto- ralis minor, tvhich is seen crossing the inferior half of the wound, the cephalic vein running upon it. a, the axillary aiiery, immediately below the clavicle.; b, the axillary vein ; c, the brachial plexus; d, the ce- phalic vein going to join the axillary vein; e, the ligature in the eye of the aneurism needle; f the needle supporting the artery, which is somewhat raised upon it. Ligature of the artery just below the clavicle.— In the triangular space already described, the artery is covered by the pectoralis major, and runs in an oblique direction from within, outwards and downwards, till it passes under the pectoralis minor, a little below its ten- dinous expansion. The patient being placed in the recumbent posture, on a bed or re- clining chair, exposed to the light, the shoulder slightly raised, and the arm carried away from the trunk, Hodgson, in order to expose this part of the axillary artery, directs a semi-lunar incision, with its convexity downwards, and about three inches in length, extending from about an inch from the sternal end of the clavicle, and stopping short of the edge of the deltoid muscle, in order to avoid wounding the cephalic vein. This incision divides the skin, and fibres of the platysma myoides. The fibres of the pectoral muscle itself are then divided in the same manner and to the same extent. This dissection should be conducted carefully with a director, until it exposes the whitish layer of cellular tissue. On raising the muscle, the pectoralis minor, which forms the lower boundary of the triangle, is seen crossing the lower part of the wound. The arm should now be brought close to the side, a blunt instrument, or the finger, is employed to depress the edge of this muscle, and clear the vessel from the cellular membrane that connects it with the vein and nerves. On the thoracic side, and somewhat in front, will be found the vein, which swells at every expira- tion, the nerves of the brachial plexus lying to its scapular side, and somewhat behind it. The safety of the vein must be carefully looked to, and, in isolating the artery, it should be held aside with a blunt hook, and the curved needle should be introduced be- tween it and the artery, or from within, out- wards. The ligature should then be raised on the finger, before it is tied, in order to as- certain that the pulsations in the aneurismal tumour are stopped ; of course the precaution should also extend to seeing that no nerve be included ; and still more so, that a nerve shall not be mistaken for an artery. Fig. 81.