719 CATARACT. also appear to have practised an operation for the removal of cataract, probably from an earlier period than the time of Celsus, but no account of this operation was published till a very late period by Dr. Scott in the Journal of Science and Arts, No. 3. Several distinct modifications of this opera- tion require to be described ; viz. 1. Simple depression of the lens and capsule by a needle, introduced through the sclerotica or through the cornea. 2. Depression of the lens with laceration of its capsule, &c. 3. Reclination of the lens. Each of these operations may be performed by introducing the instrument for the purpose either through the sclerotica and behind the iris, or through the cornea and anterior to it. The different operations for the displace- ment of the cataract, are performed by means of a small pointed instrument called a couch- ing or cataract needle. The cataract needles now in use are few in number, and of simple construction. Dr. Ammon of Gottingen, however, in a small work on the operations for cataract, has pub- lished a plate containing 77 figures of needles; these, for the most part, differ from each other, though they may be said to have a general resemblance. He has commenced with that of Celsus, and delineates the dif- ferent needles of subsequent distinguished operators of different countries down to that of Pott and Hey in England. It is unneces- sary, and would serve no useful purpose to enter minutely into a detailed account of all these needles. We shall confine ourselves to a description of the needles of Beer, Scarpa, and Buchhorn, the whole of the others being almost entirely laid aside. These needles have nearly the same properties, except that one is straight at its point, whereas the other two have different degrees of curvature. Each of them is a little more than an inch in length, flattened and lance-shaped near the point, with sharp cutting edges. (See figs. 15, 16.) With these needles almost every useful object can be attained ; and the other needles, which have been invented and used for similar pur- poses, may be said to possess the same pro- perties with slight modifications. The first is the straight lance-pointed needle of Professor Beer, fig. 15. This needle, like the others, is a little more than an inch in length, and fixed in a handle. Its thickness is about 5'5 part of an inch, tapering from the handle to the point, where it becomes flattened, sharp- edged, and pointed. This needle may be used for any of the operations for cataract which can be performed by a needle. The second is the curved needle of Scarpa, fig. 16. It is of the same dimensions as the preceding, but is curved at its point to the extent seen in the plate, and the curved part at its point being of a triangular form, instead of being either round or flat. This needle is used chiefly for the depression of the lens and tearing of its capsule, for which purposes it is well adapted. The needle of Buchhorn is similar to that of Scarpa, but more flattened and less curved at its point. It has been in- vented and employed chiefly for the breaking to pieces of the lens in the operation through the cornea, called Keratony sms. The handles of the needles are made of wood or ivory, and marked on the two sides, corresponding to the sharp edges of the .point. The handles are generally about four inches long, and eight-sided. The figures here introduced represent these needles of the ordinary size, but in the cases of children they should be smaller. Some sur- geons have recommended needles of a much smaller size, particularly in diameter ; and Dr. Jacob of Dublin has recommended small curved needles made of small round common sewing needles in preference to any other. Fig. 17. By using very fine needles it is doubtful whether any advantage is gained, and in some cases sufficient power cannot be exerted with them to tear open or depress the lens. When needles are made fiat near to their points, the sides of the flat part should have a sharp cutting edge like a lancet, in order that it may easily penetrate through the coats of the eye ; but the length of this flattened part should not be more than g of an inch, so that the needle may be easily turned round when in the eye. There are two modes of couching or de- pressing the lens, viz. the partial and the complete displacement of it. The former is called reclination of the lens, see fig. 22, b, the other depression of it, see fig. 22, c. Both of these operations, or different degrees of displacement, may be performed by introduc- ing the needle either through the cornea anteriorly to the iris, or through the sclero- tica posterior to it. See fig. 21. But as in each of them the laceration of the vitreous humour, where it is to receive the lens imbed- ded into it, is essential to the permanent dis- placement of the cataract, this can be much better accomplished by the needle when it is introduced into the eye through the sclerotic coat, and behind the iris, than before it. Previously to any operation for cataract with the needle, the pupil is to be dilated by extract of belladonna, smeared over the eye- brow and lids some hours before the time of operating. This gives the operator a great ad- vantage in seeing the operations of the needle upon the cataract. The first part or stage of the operation for the displacement of the lens, is the introduction of the needle through the coats of the eye. When the needle is intro- duced through the cornea, it ought to be inser- ted at the distance of a line and a half or two lines from the margin of the cornea. When it is introduced through the sclerotic coat, it ought to penetrate into the eye at the distance of one and a half or two lines from the margin of the cornea, and it should be made to pene- trate a little either above or below the trans- verse diameter of the eye, with its cutting edges directed anteriorly and posteriorly to avoid wounding the long ciliary artery and