BLADDER. 472 fois bonnement iuger d’oii procedoit ceste feteur, ou de la blessee ou d’un autre qui tenait la chandelle, mais bien-tost apres je fus esclaircv de ce doute par madamoyselle de Varie, qui m’asseura quo c’estoit celle qui m’esclairoit qui puoit ainsi, et que son pere donneroit volon- tiers la moytie de son bien, et qu’elle fust bien guerie. Je la priay de me la faire voir, et m’offris d’apporter tout le remede que je pour- rois a son mal; sur ceste asseurance elle me fut presentee le lendemain matin, et trouvay son ombilic alonge de quatre doigts et sem- blable a la creste d’un coq d’inde, et qu’elle pissoit ordinairement par l’ouraque. Enfin ayant recogneu son mal, mon appareil estant prest, sur le point que je voulois commencer 1’operation, je me representay tout a coup le danger qui en pouvoit advenir, et que la mort seroit inevitable en fermant le trou d’henhaut, si on ne donnoit issue a l’urine par le conduit d’embas ; mais la pitie fut, a l’exhibition des pieces, car la patiente qui pouvoit estre agee de dixhuict a vingt ans, n’y vouloit aucune- ment entendre ; enfin vaincue des prieres du pere et de la mere, consentit d’en faire la montre ; je trouvai l’orifice de la vescie ferme d’une membrane, espesse d’un teston ou plus, le reste bien forme qui fut cause que je m’atta- quay premierement a ceste partie inferieure, et ayant faict l’ouverture, luy mis une canulo de plorr.b, jusques au dedans du corps de la vescie, pour tenir le conduict libre, et faire que l’urine eut son naturel passage par la : le lendemain je proceday a 1’operation de l’om- bilic, et y fis une ligature pareille a celle des operateurs lorsqu’ils couppent une enterocele, car je fis passer l’cguille trois fois par un mesme trou, en embrassant la seconde fois un des costes tant seulement, et la tierce l’autre, avec un filet fort et bien cire: cela faict je couppay pres de la ligature, cauterisay le bout, et l’escharre tombe, le traittay avec detersifs et dessiccatifs coniine les autres ulceres, et fut entierement guerie dgns douze jours : par ainsi je m’acquittay fidellement de la promesse que j’avais fait de la guerir : mais je me vis frustre de celle de madamoyselle de Varie, la inoitie du bien du pere estant convertie en un double ducat qui me fut donne pour le salaire de ma peine.” A rare variety in the conformation of this viscus has been observed ; where, instead of one, there are two, or even more pouches, each having its own ureter. Molinetti men- tions an instance in which he found five differ- ent bladders, and five kidneys, with six ure- ters, two of which terminated in the largest of the bladders, the other four were inserted, one into each of the lesser bladders, each of which poured its urine by separate conduits into the large bladder. This is a very extra- ordinary, and, perhaps, an unique case. The preceding varieties of malformation are congenital. The changes of form, size, and structure, which the bladder is found to un- dergo from disease affecting itself, or neigh- bouring organs, will be noticed in connexion x\ ith the causes which produce them. The following case, for which I am indebted to my friend Mr. Bennett Lucas, is a very curious, and I believe also, an unique instance of congenital malformation of this viscus. “A. B., a male infant, five days old, presented in the situation of the anus, a red fleshy-look- ing tumour, about the size of a pea, which concealed an opening oidy capable of admitting a small tube, but to the depth of from three to four inches. Nothing had ever been passed in this channel ; the child discharging both its urine, and faeces through the urethra. Both testicles had descended, and a congenital her- nia existed on either side. With these excep- tions the infant was otherwise well-formed, healthy, and of the ordinary size. I proposed to Mr. Kenney, in company with whom I saw the case, to perform an operation, with a view to establish a connection between the rectum and anal aperture ; but as no very great hope, much less decided success, could be held out from its performance, the parents objected to the operation being attempted, and the little patient died on the evening of the ninth day of its birth. “ Two days before the infant expired its scro- tum became distended, and evidently contained a fluid. An incision was proposed to be made into the tumour, but it would not be permitted. “ From the haste attending the removal of the parts, I lost sight of the termination of the ureters, as also the termination of the vasa deferentia. I have, however, since the accom- panying sketch of the parts was taken, slit up the remaining portion of the undivided ure- thra, and, with the greatest care, examined its mucous surface, and also the mucous surface of the bladder, but I could not detect any open- ings besides those already mentioned. “ As the child passed urine through its ure- thra, there can be no doubt but that this secre- tion was received into the bladder; and as no trace of any opening, except the recto-vesical, the ano-vesical, and the urethro-vesical, can be detected, the urine must have been conveyed, in the first instance, into the large intestine, and thence into the bladder, by means of the recto-vesical opening. “ I am unable to say at what point each ure- ter entered the large intestine, having brought away only the length of intestine shown in the engraving, which includes all the rectum, such as it is, and a portion of the sigmoid flexure of the colon ; and so far as this much of the gut is concerned, the only opening it presents is the recto-vesical. The ureters probably opened into the corresponding ascending and descending portions of the colon. But this can be only conjecture. “ The course of the vasa deferentia was also destroyed in the hurry of removing the parts; but there is no opening in the urethra, bladder, or the portion of large intestine, to indicate that they terminated in any of these organs. “ The urethra does not present a trace of the verumontanum. 1 also looked most carefully f or the prostate gland, and vesiculae seminales, without success. “ The appearances revealed by the dissection of this, 1 believe, unique condition of parts,