ARTHRITIS, TRAUMATIC. 399 but advantage will now be derived from the employment of a lotion around the joint, which may be used warm or cold according to the feelings of the patient himself. The com- mon prejudice is in favour of cold applications, but I have seen very great advantages result from the combined effect of warmth and moisture. This treatment must be actively followed in proportion to the size of the joint involved, and the constitution of the person who has undergone the injury. If by these means the action should be reduced to a chronic form, the remedies commonly em- ployed in chronic synovitis of idiopathic origin may then be employed. If, on the other hand, the acute inflammation should be fol- lowed by suppuration, our line of treatment must undergo a great alteration. The fear of forming an opening into the joint must now be abandoned, and as soon as the joint be- comes distended with pus, if the original wound have closed or be of inconsiderable size, not allowing exit to the pent up fluid, a sufficiently free incision must be practised. Petit recommended that the opening should be of large size, while David, on the contrary, was in the habit of employing a trocar. Boyer thinks that both these modes are worthy of adoption in different circumstances ; the lat- ter, where the collection of pus has formed as a consequence of caries of the bone ; the for- mer, where the suppuration has been induced by a wound; and, as the object is to relieve tne excessive pain and distension which the collection of matter occasions, Boyer’s decision deserves our adoption. The relief which follows the free evacuation of the matter is very surprising, but the pus continues to be secreted, and the opening, therefore, ought to be made in as depending a position as possible, that the fluid may find vent almost as rapidly as it forms. The posture of the limb ought also to be regulated with a view to the attain- ment of this object, perfect rest being still en- joined. Emollient and anodyne poultices may be applied around the joint ; the diet must be generous, and tonics or anodynes may be given as circumstances render necessary. It is impossible to sketch accurately the treat- ment that will be applicable to the various conditions of these alarming cases, and a brief outline is all that can be given. In the last described termination of this disease,—that in which the adjacent articular tissues become affected, the treatment adopted so precisely corresponds to that advisable when the lesion has been idiopathic, that it is unnecessary to enter upon its consideration. As a general rule, it may be laid down, with only too much truth, that in the present state of surgery, the most favourable terminations of this latter state to which we can look for- ward with any degree of confidence, are, in the lower extremities amputation ; and in the upper excision. 2-—Complicated wounds of joints.—Of the complicated wounds, we have first to con- sider :— a. Wounds complicated with injury of ligament and cartilage. Lesions of this sort will demand very' little of our attention, since the symptoms additional to those of wounds of the synovial membrane are not very numerous or striking. We know that in the enarthrodial articulations the syno- vial capsule cannot be opened without a cor- responding wound of the ligamentous capsule. In other articulations, we form our opinion from the extent and size of the wound ; the direction which it has taken, and the abnor- mal mobility which exists between the two articulating extremities. A wound of the cartilage can rarely be ascertained unless the joint be laid widely open, when the diagnosis is too obvious to require explanation. In either case, the immediate symptoms induced by wounds of these tissues, are so slight and immaterial, as commonly to be absorbed in the phenomena produced by the injured syno- vial membrane. If the divided ligament be funicular, the ends retract, and the interspace between them becomes filled up by newly- developed cellular tissue, which forms the bond of reunion, and ultimately acquires a ligamentous character. This process probably occupies some time, but in capsular ligaments, where the wound is made parallel with the fibres, the reunion, though still effected by cellular tissue, takes place very rapidly. Thus, after dislocation of the humerus, where the capsular ligament must be extensively ruptured, we often find the patient in the course of a week or two enjoying perfect motion of the arm. In unhealthy constitu- tions the reparative action now described is not set up, but the ligament becomes swollen by deposit in its reticular tissue, and ulcera- tion ensues, attended by all the symptoms and appearances described in the former part of this paper. Wounds of cartilage, though certainly un- productive of striking alterations, are not so barren of consequences as Lobstein, Velpeau, and Cruveilhier have represented. There is such a paucity of facts concerning the patho- logy of cartilage, that we have no right to assert the impossibility of an immediate re- union of divided cartilaginous surfaces. I in- cised tbe cartilage of the femur in the tibio- femoral articulation of a dog. The incision was so distinct, that I heard the cartilages “cry” under the bistoury, and the edge of the instrument grated on the bone. The dog was killed at the end of two days, and on exa- mining the joint I was unable to discover any solution of continuity on the surface of the cartilage. The synovial membrane covering the cartilage was every where smooth and natural. Usually, however, it is found that for a considerable time, sometimes even weeks, after the division of articular cartilage, not the slightest reparative or morbid toil is exhibited. Subsequently, the divided surfaces are found rather widely separated ; the sharp edges are rounded off, and a fine flocculent tissue of false membrane fills up the cavity made by