ANKYLOSIS. 324 and drawing downwards the patient’s heel with his left hand, and pressing upwards the toes and front of the foot with his right, rendered the tendon to be divided as tense as possible. After feeling with my left thumb and forefinger the outline of the tendo Achil- lis, in this case partially connected to the surrounding parts by adhesions, I passed the small bistoury through the skin, one or two fingers’ breadth above the malleolus in- ternus, with one of its sides turned towards the tendon and immediately above it, (the patient sitting), the other directed towards the deeper muscles and the tibial vessels and nerves ; and as soon as I knew that the point of the knife was passed beyond the external edge of the tendon, and had nearly reached the skin of the opposite side, I turned the knife so as to bring its cutting edge to press against the tendon, which was cut at one stroke, on withdrawing the knife. The recoil of the severed ends of the tendon was dis- tinctly felt and heard. The puncture was dressed with a strip of adhesive plaister and bandage, and the limb as usual laid in its de- formed position upon a common pasteboard splint. Second day after the operation.—The dress- ing was removed, and the puncture found to have united by adhesion. On examining the limb I felt a small string, or bridle, remaining undivided at the part where I had cut the tendon. It may have been the plantaris tendon, as it was upon the inside of the tendo Achillis, or a strip of fascia, or a small band of old adhesions. I divided it by a very mi- nute puncture, and placed the limb, after dressing it, upon Stromeyer’s foot-board, without exercising .any extension. Fourth day.—The cord of the apparatus tightened, for the first time, so as to keep a little tension upon the joint. Seventh day.—The extension has been car- ried on slowly, and without inconvenience to the patient, except from the pressure of the apparatus against one of the corns which co- ver that part of the sole upon which she trod formerly. A friend of the patient un- dertook this morning to remove the project- ing part of the corn which occasioned the pain, in doing which he unfortunately wound- ed the cutis ; this little accident has occurred most inopportunely, as the tenderness which may result therefrom will prevent me from persevering with the use of the apparatus to rectify the position of the foot until it has perfectly healed. Tenth day.—The apparatus has continued to be worn, but the anticipated inflammation around the corn has required the application of poultices, and prevented any progress being made. The pain in the sole is subsiding, and the little wound made through cutting the corn is healed ; the extension, therefore, is now to be pursued. Eleventh day. — Patient has complained much of pain in that part of the foot covered with the corns ; so much, indeed, did she suffer during the night, that being summoned to her, I was obliged to loosen the apparatus, although it was by no means tightly applied. The slight, though constant pressure, had sufficed to re-excite inflammation of the skin around the corns. In order that the pressure of the foot-board may hereafter be distributed equally over the entire sole, I have placed between it and the foot-board a temporary air cushion, which I have prepared by intro- ducing one portion of the gut of a bullock within a second portion of the same, tying the double intestine firmly at one end, then inflating it and securing it at the other. This contrivance was no sooner applied than she expressed herself totally relieved from sore- ness and pain ; she could even bear imme- diately a much greater pressure than I thought necessary for the gradual forcing upward of the toes; in short, she was ren- dered more comfortable with the foot-board on than without it, as the elastic uniform pressure against the entire sole, eased her at once from the burning pain of the inflamed skin around the corns. Twelfth day.—My patient is delighted with the progress she is making, as the heel has visibly descended, and I, that my experiment with the air cushion has succeeded so per- fectly. To-day I have substituted for the inflated intestine a properly made caoutchouc air cushion. I have directed her to walk about the room, so as to assist the thrusting down of the heel, by throwing the weight of the body upon her foot. All pain in the corns is gone, although she is beginning to complain of pain in the situation of the liga- ments of the joint. Spirit lotion to be applied constantly to the ankle. Sixteenth day.—The foot-board has been very well borne since last report; I have re- moved it to day, and allowed her to walk across her apartment, the entire sole and heel of the foot touching the ground, without any apparatus ; 1 have, however, re-applied it, intending to bend the ankle to such an extent that the foot may form an angle with the leg as acute as natural. Twenty-second day.—The foot is now bent almost as much as is necessary to ensure perfect walking by-and-by. I have disconti- nued the foot-board, and have applied instead a lighter instrument of my own, which com- bines the perpendicular elastic springs of the Scarpa shoe, for the cure of club-foot, with a certainty of bending the joint to the natural extent, by means of a screw, acting against the spring as a lever ; she can, therefore, walk about with facility and ease. All the incon- venience she has now is from tenderness of the ligaments of the joint which have been stretched. Six weeks after the operation she walked about in a common shoe, the ankle joint pos- sessing the natural extent of motion ; at the end of two months, when all oedematous swelling had subsided, the union of the tendo Achillis could be felt to be perfect, and by