371 FRACTURE. The greater number of eases examined by Sir A. Cooper, in reference to ossific union, exhibited only slight attempts for its produc- tion upon the neck of the bone, and the tro- chanter major: but scarcely any upon the head of the bone1 j I am not, however, dis- posed to think, that Sir A. Cooper designed to imply that ossification is materially defec- tive about the roots of the trochanters. The dissections furnished by Dr. Colles of Dublin, exemplified, in every instance, either very considerable, or total absorption of the neck of the bone, and an increased thickness of the capsule. The production of ligamen- tous bands, or thickenings of periosteal fibres, were also very generally observed. He men- tions one case of fracture within the capsule especially, where no other effort towards re- union appeared ; and where the stability of the limb depended ordy upon such bands, assisted by the extraordinary development, in thickness, of the capsular ligament. In Dr. Colies’ first and second dissections, no appearance of commencing reunion was discovered; the surfaces of the fracture moved upon each other, and had in appear- ance somewhat the nature of ivory; ligamen- tous productions from the capsular ligament to the exterior of the bone only, attached them together. In the third dissection a slight attempt at reunion had been made. The sixth dissection offered an instance of the most perfect kind of reunion which some suppose ever happens to this fracture,—the new bond of union was also covered by the reflected synovial membrane or periosteum of the neck. In the seventh, eighth, and ninth, a partial fracture only appeared to have occurred, the solution of continuity not extending com- pletely through the neck of the bone, but the part of the neck that was not fractured, was softened, and appeared more like carti- lage than bone. In the tenth and eleventh cases, Dr. Colles considered the reunion to be effected by a substance very different in its nature to callus, though not much less firm ; he thought it also peculiar to fracture of the neck of the femur2. Mr. Amesbury refers to the following cases. A woman, about fifty years of age, with ever- sion of foot and shortening of the limb, was confined to bed twelve months, and for ten years afterwards walked on crutches; after death the shortening was two inches and a half, and the preparation of the case showed it to be a fracture of the neck of the femur within the capsule ; considerable absorption of the neck had taken place; the head and remaining part of the neck were united prin- cipally by bone ; and the rest by a cartilagi- nous substance ; the capsular ligament was greatly thickened, and closely embraced the joint. Another case, a dissection nine months after the fracture, presented a thickened capsule, 1 Mr. Hunter’s account of the case is, that the shaft offers union, but the head is incapable of accepting it. 2 Dublin Hospital Reports. very much shortened neck, and considerable bony deposit. A third dissection, twelve months after the accident, discovered a very much contracted capsule, with a broad and liga- mentous band on each side of the joint; and an oblique fracture about an inch long, ex- tending downwards immediately from the head of the bone, with the lower portion of the fracture outside the capsule, not united. In a fourth dissection, the necks of both femora had been broken ; the surfaces of the fracture on the right side, which had had no surgical attempt towards producing union, were quite ununited, except at the edges, where there was junction by means of a fibri- nous matter, which at one part was strong. The other cervix had been broken within the capsule, close to the head, and was firmly united ; the neck was nearly all absorbed, and the head depressed, and connected by strong bands to the capsule, which wras also much contracted and thickened. The callus had become can- cellated. This last remark makes me suspect that fracture had not occurred. The following requires more careful con- sideration 3. A youth, eighteen years of age, fell from the top of a loaded cart, and alighted on his right hip. He became wholly unable to move the limb, and suffered severely when any one moved it. “ The thigh wras bent to a right angle with the pelvis, and could not by any means be extended. Abduction of the thigh was difficult. The limb was everted, at first slightly, afterwards in a greater degree.” There was no shortening, but rather the con- trary in appearance ; no crepitus was disco- vered, but there was considerable swelling around the hip. After consultation upon this uncertain case, an idea of a luxation of the head of the femur into the foramen ovale, led to “ the forcible extension of the limb by means of the pulleys, and the thigh then moved in several directions, by which the head of the bone might be replaced in its socket.” About two months after the accident, the patient was received into St. Bartholomew’s Hospital. His health was now found to be much deranged. His pulse was frequent and hard. He complained of pain in his head, in the injured hip, and down the opposite side. He remained nearly in the same state for about a month. An eruption, as of small-pox, appeared, and two days afterwards he died. The hip alone appeared disordered on exa- mination. “ The capsule W'as entire, but a little thickened. The round ligament was uninjured. A line of fracture extended ob- liquely through the neck of the femur, and entirely within the capsule. The neck of the bone was shortened, and its head, in conse- quence, approximated to the trochanter major. The fractured surfaces were in close apposi- tion, and finally united nearly in their whole extent by bone. There was an irregular de- posit of bone upon the neck of the femur, 2 This case is related by Mr. Stanley in the Med. Chir. Transactions, vol. xviii. B b 2