562 CALCULUS. field of enquiry. The analysis of the urine and other fluids, which form part of Dr. Bright’s excellent work, entitled, “ Reports of Cases,” &c. are mostly by Dr. Bostock, who has the honour of having been the first to dis- cover urea as a constituent of the blood in eases of diseased kidney. He speaks of it as “ an animal matter, possessing peculiar pro- perties, being partially soluble in alcohol, and acted on by nitric acid in the same manner as urea *.” The caution of the philosopher alone prevented him from calling this matter “ pos- sessing peculiar properties,” &c., by its proper name. That it was urea has been amply con- firmed by Dr. Christison2, who found it in con- siderable quantity in the blood of several patients labouring under dropsy, with the elaboration of albuminous urine. In entering on the subject of urinary cal- culus, it is indispensable to begin with the con- sideration of the various morbid states of the urine, which are connected with their forma- tion and growth. It were better indeed, were this possible, to treat immediately of the organic, or at least dynamic changes that must needs occur in the kidneys themselves when they act amiss ; but in the present state of our knowledge this is impossible; in regard to the kidneys, we are compelled to assume altered conditions in the product of activity, as evidence of an altered or deranged con- dition in the agent : we know nothing of the state of the kidney immediately, which is con- nected with the elaboration of the great majo- rity of abnormal species of urine. It is in reference to the production of albumen almost alone, that the pathological anatomy of the kidney has made any progress in con- nection with the indications of perverted func- tion afforded by preternatural states of the urine. Perfectly healthy urine in the human sub- ject scarcely lets fall any precipitate save a slight mucous cloud, until it begins to be de- composed by standing. But very trifling and transient disturbances of the system suffice to destroy this criterion of healthiness in the pro- duct of the renal function. In fact, we cannot have our circulating and nervous systems sti- mulated by company, nor the organs of diges- tion called upon for an extra effort by a little more wine, and a somewhat fuller meal than usual, without observing the urine next day to be of a high colour, to become turbid after it has stood for some little time, and by and by either to let fall a powdery precipitate of various shades of colour, or to deposit a quan- tity of reddish-brown crystals on the bottom and sides of the utensil. Sedimentary urine, however, is observed to be the attendant upon a considerable variety of continuous morbid states of the system generally, as well as of the kidnev in particular. The sediments, moreover, are by no means always of the same nature as those presented in the accidental circumstances mentioned ; they differ entirely 1 Reports, &c. vol. i. p. 84. s Kdinb. Med. and Surg. Jour. vol. xxxii. p. 285. in their appearance and chemical composition, and are even indices of dissimilar and very opposite pathological conditions of the body. Sedimentary urine may be conveniently spoken of under two distinct heads, in confor- mity with the two principal orders of salts which form the precipitates, and, as it happens, with the two distinct states of constitution with which they are severally associated: First, that in which the lithic acid and the lithates, especially the lithate of ammonia, the lithic oxide, the cystine, and the oxalate of lime, form the precipitate ; and second, that in which the phosphatic salts, namely, the am- monia-magnesian phosphate, and the phos- phate of lime, compose the deposit. Sedimentary Urine in which the deposit con- sists of the Lithic Acid and the Lithates.— Of all the kinds of sedimentary urine this is by far the most interesting and important, in as much as upon its occurrence depends cer- tainly in two cases in three the first step in the formation of urinary calculi, or stones in the kidney and bladder. The urine from which the lithic or uric acid is deposited in the shape of crystals, as fre- quently happens, is commonly of a high colour, having something of the tint of a rich golden- coloured sherry wine. It has what may be styled the peculiar sensible properties of urine, in an eminent degree, the deep colour alone bespeaking the abundance of the principle upon which these depend ; for both urea and uric acid uncombined with the colouring and odoriferous matter of the urine, the urodme- chrome, as it might be called, are colourless, and without smell. It is not necessarity of very high specific gravity. The writer has often found urine which was depositing, or had deposited lithic acid abundantly, of the density of 1.018,1.020, and 1.022. It is quite bright when passed, and generally communi- cates a sensation of comfortable stimulation to the urinary passages as it is voided. Some- times this sensation is exaggerated, and then the urine feels hot to the urethra. It is only as the fluid cools that the crystalline particles of the lithic acid make their appearance ; and as they subside quickly, have themselves a certain degree of transparency, and princi- pally increase in size after they have reached the bottom and sides of the utensil or reci- pient ; unless they are extremely abundant, they do not cause any very great diminution of transparency in the fluid. When collected, by decanting off the super- natant urine, and dried, the lithic acid thus deposited appears in the guise of a parcel of brilliant crystals, which seem to be four-sided prisms, very like sea-sand or muscovado sugar in appearance, but drier and more gritty, of a brownish-red colour of various shades of in- tensity, being in some cases as dark as wainscot or mahogany, in others of a light brownish- yellow, and in some rarer cases nearly white. These crystals are very little soluble in water. Dr. Prout failed to dissolve 1 part of lithic acid in 10,000 parts of cold water. Dr. Henry, on 12