BLISTER. 1 Leclerc, Hist, de laMedecine, p. 513. 47.‘i were very different from what was anticipated. Although the infant passed both faeces and urine through its urethra, it was a reasonable ,■ inference that the anal orifice communicated ! with the rectum, in consequence of the depth to which the probe passed : the extremity of the probe, on being withdrawn, being sullied with faeces, and this being the natural outlet of the alimentary canal. The usual orifice, also, and the canal leading from it, being so uneven, as to offer a serious impediment to the passage of the faeces in this direction. Notwithstand- ing it was evident during life that a communi- j cation must have existed between the bladder and rectum ; yet under the supposition that the anal orifice communicated with the rec- tum, all hope of success from an operation which had for its object the restoration of the lower portion of the intestinal canal, was not shut out, particularly when we recollect, the rapidity with which abnormal openings in childhood close, when once the cause which tends to keep them open is removed. “ In this case, however, I doubt if any opera- tion, even were the state of the parts before- hand ascertained, would have been attended with a favourable termination. “ The subjoined sketch of the parts is taken, from the preparation in my possession, by my intelligent pupil, Mr. Meiban : Fig. 154. Bibliography.—Observations on Malformations of the Bladder will be found in Blasius, part 4. obs. 6. Stalpart Vanderwiel, t. 2. p. 256. Bartholin, cent. 2. llist. 65. Philos. Transact, vol. vii. Haller, Elem. Pliys. t. vii. p. 297. Duncan, Edin. Med. and Surg. Journ. vol. i. Roose, Thesis de Vesicas Prolapsu na- tive. Tenon. Mem. dc l’Acad. des Sciences, Paris, 1761. TieJbuidt, Journ. Gen. dc Med. t. xxxiv.p. 176. (IE. B. Costello.') “ a. The rectum, terminat- ing nearly two inches from the anal aperture. “ b. The bladder. “c.A probepassed through a small opening by which the pouch - like termination of the rectum communicated with the bladder. “ d. A probe passed from the anal aperture upwards, shelving its determination in the bladder ; the vesical ori- fice being guarded by a val- vular fold of mucous mem- b ranc. “ e. e. e. A probe passed from the external orifice of the urethra along that tube into the bladder. uf. The distended portion of the urethra, the diameter of which is equal to a No. 11 bougie. “g. The distended scrotum communicating with the ure- thra forfully half its length, and lined with a coating of lymph, which presented ex- travasation of the urine, and the liquid faeces into the cellular tissue. “ h. A small cut de sac cor- responding to the urachus." BLEPHARITIS, see Palp^ebr^e. BLEPHAROPLASTY, see Restitution of Lost Parts. BLEPHAROPTOSIS, see Ptosis. BLEEDING. See Blood-Letting. BLENORRIIAGY, (from [5\lvva, mucus, and f)t<x>, to flow,) is now supplanting the term ‘ gonorrhoea,’ as designating an inflammatory muco-purulent discharge from the urethra, in both sexes, and sometimes also from the glans and prepuce in the male (Balanitis,) and from the vagina in the female. (See Ure- thritis.) BLENORRHCEA, (Gleet, Eng.) This affection differs only from blenorrhagy, in the absence of the inflammatory symptoms, and in the matter of the discharge being much dimi- nished, more consistent, or sometimes almost limpid. Gleet is not unfrequcntly symptom- atic of stricture in the urethra. BLISTER, vesicatorium, Lat. ; vesicatoire, Fr.; Blasenzieher, Ger. By blistering is meant an elevation of the cuticle from an effusion of serum, caused by the action of some external irritant. The use of vesicants may be traced back to a very remote period in the his- tory of medicine. Myrepsus informs us that lEselepiades invented a blister under the name of anthemeron, and Caelius Aurelianus another called diacoj)regias. Aretaeus appears to have been the first to introduce canthar- ides for this purpose although, if we believe -dStius, it had been previously used by Archi- genes and Galen *. The common blistering plaister is prepared with the melo'e vcsicalorius of Linnteus, the