711 CATARACT. exposed, or the application of belladonna, a large black circle is observable around the lens. This circle is formed by the zonula lucida, or transparent space between the mar- gin of the lens and ciliary circle. By dilata- tion of the pupil, cataractous patients generally have their vision much improved, so that they sometimes use belladonna daily for this pur- pose as a palliative remedy. The employment of belladonna in cases of cataract, to affect the pupil before examination of the eye, is attended with great advantage to the surgeon, and enables him to form a decided opinion in many cases which pre- viously appeared to be doubtful. The varia- tions in the conditions of the pupil will be again more particularly alluded to when treat- ing of the complications and diagnosis of cataract. If the iris be of a yellowish or green colour, not observable in the other eye, or is other- wise discoloured from previous inflammation, or if the iris has a tremulous motion when the eyeball or head is moved, the state of the eye may be considered unfavourable for the per- formance of any operation. If the pupil either dilates imperfectly, irregularly, or not at all by belladonna, the case is also unfavourable. $ 6. State of the Retina in Cataract. In many cases of cataract the sensibility of the retina remains unimpaired. But when the disease has existed for a considerable length of time, as for several years, the want of use seems, in some degree, to impair the functions of the retina ; for, in many cases, after the most successful removal of the cataract, it is many weeks, and even months before the vision attains its most perfect state. But even though an eye has been blind for a great many years, either from cataract or closed pupil, perfect sight has been restored by operations for their removal. In one case of closed pupil, operated on by Mr. Guthrie, the patient had been blind from this cause for 22 years, and vision was restored so as to enable him to see to read very well'. In other cases, however, the vision restored is very imperfect after the removal of the cataract, from no other cause than a want of energy or power in the retina, probably from long inactivity2. § 7. Complications of Cataracts. Though cataract is a disease which may be entirely local and uncomplicated, yet cases of it are very frequently found to be complicated with diseases of other parts of the eyeball, as well as with morbid states of the system generally. We shall include the complications with other affections of the eye under four heads. 1. With opacity or disease of the other transparent parts of the eye. 2. With affec- tions of the iris. 3. With affections of the retina; and, 4. With affections of the other coats and appendages of the eye. 1 Guthlie's Lectures on the Eye, p. 200. 2 Middlcinore, v. 2. p. 284. The success of the treatment of cataract is much modified by these complications, and their existence always render success un- certain, or it may entirely forbid surgical interference, even in attempting a cure. “ A perfectly uncomplicated case is very rarely met with. The following questions must evi- dently be of the highest importance, in every instance. Is the organ of vision in a con- dition to resume its office to any useful extent, were the cataract removed1 ? Is there nothing in the general health likely to frustrate the success of an operation, no local affection in any other organ of the body likely to sym- pathize with the eye and bring on inflam- mation ?” 1. Cataract complicated with Diseases of other Transparent Parts of the Eye. (а) Specks of the cornea are sometimes found to exist along with cataract. These are easily discovered by their superficial situation. They render cases of cataract more or less unfavour- able for operation according to their situation and degree. If in the centre of the cornea, they render the case hopeless. (б) The only other transparent part of the eye with which cataract can be complicated is that of the vitreous humour. Loss of trans- parency of this humour, or of its capsule, appears to be of very rare occurrence, and when it exists along with cataract it cannot be detected, un- less it had been previously known to exist. The greenish deep-seated opacity which in many cases appears to be situated in the vitreous humour, is, I am convinced, from dissection and other circumstances, an opaque state of the retina, and constitutes glaucoma. (See Glaucoma.) A disorganised state of the reticular mem- brane through the substance of the vitreous humour is not unfrequent. This makes the vitreous humour appear more fluid than natu- ral, and sometimes gives rise to a moving or tremulous state of the lens. It is known by a soft state of the eyeball, waving or tremulous iris, and floating state of lens. 2. Cataract complicated with Affections of the Iris. Many different states and affections of the iris are found complicated with cataract. The pupil is in some cases dilated ; in others con- tracted. It may be found of its natural circu- lar form, or very irregular in shape, the pupil- lary margin may be adherent to the capsule of the lens, either partially or wholly, or to some part of the cornea, thus permanently altering the dimensions and mobility of the pupil. The contractile motions of the iris, too, may be much impaired in cases of cata- ract, being often sluggish and irregular, and sometimes the mobility is entirely lost, its functions having been impaired by previous inflammation, or by palsy. When the state of the pupil is not de- pendent upon adhesions between the iris and 1 Mackenzie, p. 659.