ANEURISM. 241 more friable and unresisting than in the state of health, and if one or more ligatures are placed successively, one above another, while the artery is thus inflamed, the vessel is more easily cut through, and the consequences may be easily foreseen. Another and indeed an ancient mode, which was advocated by Mr. Abernethy, consisted in the application of two ligatures, the artery being divided between them. To this mode of applying the ligatures, he was led by ob- serving that secondary haemorrhage was much more frequent after the operation for aneurism than after amputations ; and he therefore an- ticipated that by placing two ligatures on an artery and dividing it between them, the upper extremity^ of the vessel, and which he erro- neously supposed was the only one from which a secondary haemorrhage could arise, would be, in this respect, precisely in the same circum- stances as an artery tied after an amputation. Of all these different methods which have been resorted to for placing the ligature on an aneurismal artery, that which is now almost universally employed in this country is the application of a single thread round the vessel in such a manner as to cause as little injury as possible to the adjacent soft parts, the noose being tied sufficiently tight to divide the in- ner coats of the vessel. There is, indeed, no operation which, if properly executed, is fol- lowed with more certain success than that of obliterating an arterial trunk by the applica- tion of the single ligature ; how far such a procedure may be advisable for the treatment of particular cases of aneurism, is another point to determine : for in this, as in all other surgical operations, the ultimate success de- pends on the proper selection of the case, its previous treatment, and likewise on its after management. What I now contend for is, that if a single ligature be placed on an arte- rial trunk, the coats of which are healthy at the point of ligation,—if a sufficient space be left between the ligature and the first col- lateral branch for the formation of an internal clot; if the noose be made sufficiently tight not only to insure the adhesion of the sides of the artery, but also to cause a speedy ulcera- tion of the coats to permit the escape of the knot ; and above all, if this operation has been accomplished with facility and without detaching the vessel from its sheath and the soft parts contiguous to the sheath of the vessel to any unnecessary extent; and. finally, if the wound is not irritated after the opera- tion by extraneous substances, this operation is almost invariably attended with success. On reviewing the numerous cases of aneu- rism which have been operated upon since the Hunterian method was introduced, the cases in which it has been unsuccessful, have, in almost every instance, excepting those which were injudiciously selected for a surgical ope- ration, failed from secondary haemorrhage; whilst of late years, since important improve- ments have been made in the application of the ligature, and in simplifying tne operation, VOL. I. the surgical treatment of aneurism can now be resorted to with great certainty, as far at least as regards the obliteration of the artery, whatever may be the changes effected in tlie aneurismal tumour. To secure the success of the ligature, se- veral circumstances are indispensable, besides those which relate to the mere application of the thread. 1st. No branch should come off from the trunk of the artery within a certain distance of the point of ligation, a space being neces- sary for the blood to stagnate and coagulate, and in which a fibrinous concretion may be ultimately formed, in order to produce a per- manent barrier to the circulation. Whatever precautions may be taken, or however intel- ligent the operator may be, there is always a risk, either of some anomalous branch coming off close to the place where the ligature is applied, or the relative position of the parts may be so altered from the bulk of the aneu- rismal tumour, that the ligature is placed close to some collateral branch ; and hence in either case, there not being sufficient room for the formation of an internal coagulum between such collateral branch, and the point of li- gation, secondary haemorrhage must follow whenever the coats of the vessel are ulcerated by the ligature. This accident has frequently happened when the operation has been per- formed on the trunk of the common femoral artery, in cases where the aneurismal tumour was so situated that there was not a sufficient space between the sac and the epigastric, or circumflex artery to permit the ligature to be placed, so as to leave a sufficient portion of the trunk of the vessel between the ligature and the origin of the branch for the formation of a coagulum. 2d. There should be no important devia- tion from the usual distribution of the vessel. When an anomaly occurs, we have to fear not only the danger arising from the ligature being applied too close to such a division of the artery, and preventing the formation of the necessary coagulum for its obliteration, but we have also to fear the continuance of the circulation on the capillary or distal side of the ligature. The more remarkable instances of these irregularities in the distribution of the arteries have been described by different authors, more particularly by Haller, Murray, Burns, Barclay, Tiedemann, Harrison, and Dr. Hennis Green, and will be referred to in describing the operations on particular vessels. Mode of applying the Ligature.—There are certain points demanding particular attention when a ligature is to be applied on an arterial trunk, and which should be borne in mind, on whatever vessel the ligature is to be placed. The precise length of the incision in the inte- guments, after mature consideration, ought to be marked with ink. The length of the inci- sion ought to be regulated according as the vessel may be more or less deeply situated, recollecting that the facility of the future dissection depends very much on a free inci- R