453 BALANITIS. beneath them, and injured by the instrument; it is, therefore, prudent to feel for the pulsa- tions of the artery before the knife is touched. Adipose tumours are frequently developed in this region ; and although, at first sight, their excision, or removal, might appear diffi- cult and perilous, on account of their surround- ing connexions, they are generally pretty easily extirpated, and the scalpel is scarcely required after the incision of the integuments is made ; these tumours are soon removed from their enveloping cysts. The lymphatic glands are very liable to partake of carcinomatous disease, when the mammary organ is affected with that disorder. The excision of these diseased glands is sometimes an operation of considerable anxiety to the surgeon, and re- quires the greatest caution, to avoid cutting ■ or puncturing the large vessels ; indeed, many i operators prefer leaving some diseased glands behind, rather than follow them into the depth of the axilla; hence, may be explained the i frequent recurrence of diseased cancerous | glands of the axilla, consecutive to the removal of the diseased breast. As a general rule in all operations performed on this region, the j surgeon should be careful in placing ligatures around the veins before their division, to pre- vent the rush of air into their cavities, which may prove almost instantaneously fatal to the patient. Several unfortunate cases of this de- scription are already on record. The extent of injury done in wounds of the axillary region is frequently a matter of great uncertainty, from the quantity of loose cellular tissue, the emphysema, and ecchymosis, are sometimes very considerable, and render a correct diag- nosis impossible. The axillary artery may be wounded, and at first give no positive signs of its injury, and, subsequently, a common aneu- rism may form, or an aneurismal varix, which the close connexion of the vein and artery easily explains. In punctured wounds, fol- lowed by haemorrhage, requiring surgical aid, the operator may be uncertain whether to take up the axillary artery itself, or its larger branch, the subscapular artery ; for there is no knowing where a pointed instrument may have passed, and what organs may be injured ; and thus, until the incision of the integuments is per- formed, nothing is clearly seen. The axillary vessels and nerves have been completely torn through by the efforts made to reduce a dislo- cated shoulder-joint; and this ought to be borne in mind when the practitioner is en- gaged in an attempt to reduce old and very difficult cases of dislocation of the humerus. (C. Tarral.) B. BALANITIS, from flaXavoc, glans.—In- | flamrnation of the mucous membrane covering the glans penis and forming the inner layer of the prepuce. The epiderm of the mucous membrane of the glans penis, as well as that of the inner layer of the prepuce, more particularly in per- sons who have a long prepuce with a narrow aperture, is very delicate. The papillae of the glans are, in some individuals, much developed; and the sebaceous follicles, termed glandulae odoriferae, situated behind the corona glandis, at the angle of reflexion which the mucous membrane makes between the glans and pre- puce, are occasionally highly developed too, and throw out an abundant and an acrid secretion. The extent of the prepuce varies greatly in different persons ; in some it is so short that the glans is quite uncovered ; in others, the glans is partially covered; and in others, again, the prepuce is so long as to conceal the glans, or, even, to constitute “ phymosis.” The delicacy of the mucous membrane that covers the glans and lines the foreskin will be in proportion to the length of the latter, and this elongation, as it gives rise to an accumu- lation of heat and moisture seems to favour the development of the sebaceous follicles, and the activity of their secretion. However this may be, the chances of that secretion ac- cumulating must of course be greater as the prepuce is more elongated. Where the glans is perfectly bared, no such accumulation can occur; and where there is phymosis, it cannot be perfectly obviated. Its quantity must therefore vary with the quantity of prepuce. In some persons we observe merely an ap- pearance of scurfiness, looking like small scales adhering to the mucous membrane ; while, in others, it seems smeared with a thick white paste, not unlike the ceratum plumbi. The mucous membrane of the glans, and inner layer of the prepuce is liable to inflam- mation. This may be acute or chronic. It may occupy the whole of the mucous surface, or may be confined to a portion of it. Acute Balanitis.—This is suddenly deve- loped. The patient may have gone to bed without observing any thing amiss, and he may find next morning the complaint established. There is a sense of itching, sometimes of smarting, rarely of sharp pain, within the foreskin, and particularly around the corona glandis. The prepuce is a little swollen, per- haps slightly reddened. From within it, there issues a puriform discharge, usually of dirty colour, often profuse, and sometimes offensive