ANKYLOSIS, 323- can voluntarily move the joint, flexing and ex- tending it sufficiently to show that the divided tendons have firmly re-united, and that the long-lost action of the muscles is restored. With a sufficient thickness of cork beneath the sole, to compensate for the shortness of the tibia, she is able, six months after the opera- tion, and after nearly five years’ confinement to the sofa, to help herself about with a stick, and as the muscles of both limbs, weakened by long inactivity, acquire power, she will doubtless lay the former aside, and walk with considerable ease and freedom. The time occupied by the treatment of this case, short as it is, compared with the results obtained, might, under ordinarily favourable circum- stances, as in an hospital, or with a patient whose health and age would enable the sur- geon to advance uninterruptedly with the treatment, be considerably shortened, reduced indeed, with safety and propriety, to six or eight weeks. In all such cases, treated by operation, the adjuvant treatment of warm and steam baths, liniments, frictions, and manipulations, should not be omitted, particularly after the exten- sion by instruments has been accomplished, in order to obtain freedom of motion, and pre- vent any tendency to recontraction of the restored limb. I have detailed the nature and progress of this case, not merely on ac- count of its individual worth, but because it illustrates my opinions relative to partial an- kylosis, and some of its proximate causes, and because, beyond the brief notice of M. Duval having done the same operation, (Lancet, No. 15, Vol. I. 1837—38,) as it had also pre- viously been done several times with success by Stromeyer of Hanover, and once by Dief- fenbach of Berlin, I am not aware that any thing of the kind has been published in our own or in the French and German languages. Of the ankyloses depending entirely or partly upon the muscles, I have in this place to consider the treatment of those cases only which come under the first of the four sec- tions, in which I have included all the varieties of partial ankylosis which have presented themselves to me ; namely, those cases which arise from sloughing, or from adhesions of muscles to one another and to the bones, as those (partial ankyloses) which come under the second and third sections, i. e. depend primarily upon spasmodic contraction, or upon organic contraction through paralysis of anta- gonists, will be more appropriately considered in the articles Contracture, Club-foot, and Paralysis, to which the reader is referred. Where a considerable extent of muscle has been lost by sloughing, or rendered unservice- able by adhesion to the fasciae and particularly to the bones, any method which might enable us to restore to the ankylosed limb its natural form and motion, would of course be unavail- able in the restoration of the integrity of the tissue, or its function ; but where numerous muscles, as in the thigh or leg, concur in the motion of an articulation in a given direction, the major part of one or more muscles may not onlj' have been lost, or owing to adhesions rendered useless as regards their particular office, but they may also interfere with the functions of all the neighbouring muscles, by forming tight cords or bridles, thus limiting the motion and inducing incomplete ankylosis of the adjacent joint, or indeed joints, if the injured muscle passes over two articulations, as the gastrocnemius for instance does. In these cases much may be done by extension with appropriate apparatus, but a cure can seldom be attained by mechanical means only, unless the morbid alteration of the form of the joint be trifling, or the affected muscles or the bands of adhesions be small, and capable of being easily elongated by stretching: even in the smaller joints of the body, partial ankylosis from sloughing or adhesion of tendons and muscles, is seldom cured by merely mechani- cal means; still less successful are we in over- coming the deformity by such means, when one of the larger joints, as the ankle for example, is affected. In two cases of partial ankylosis of the ankle-joint in the extended position, the result of abscesses involving the gastrocnemii muscles, with caries of the bones in the one case, and extensive necrosis in the other, I have been obliged to have recourse to division of the tendo Achillis, which was followed by perfect and rapid success. These cases are related at length in the Lancet, (.Vol. II. 1837—38, p. 290, 338,) an abstract of which I give here. July 27, 1837.—Miss , aetat. 24, in- forms me that some disease of the right leg, supposed at first to have been rheumatic in- flammation, commenced nearly nine years ago, and continued four years, during which period she had numerous abscesses in different parts of the back and outside of the leg, from several of which large pieces of bone were removed. When the wounds had entirely healed, and she had recovered her strength, she found herself unable to touch the ground with more than the front of the foot, the ankle-joint being almost immovably fixed in the straight position, the heel drawn up from the ground between two and three inches, and her walking rendered consequently very diffi- cult, which has continued so, as she says the great fatigue and perspiration after going half a mile are very distressing to her. The gen- tleman who had attended her, placed her un- der the care of a mechanist of repute, who undertook, by appropriate apparatus, to over- come the contraction of the calf and force the toe gradually upward, and the heel down to the ground. This plan has been persevered in by the almost daily attendance of the me- chanist ever since, up to the present time, without any other benefit than that of having prevented the contraction from increasing. August 1.—I divided the tendo Achillis, using a very narrow straight bistoury: The patient being seated in a chair, one assistant supported the knee, whilst another, grasping Y 2