287 FRACTURE. of a disturbance of the fracture ; M. Sau- ter proposed to himself as a problem to find a method of treatment not liable to these ob- jections, and the result of his meditations on this subject is the treatment by suspension, with the fragments of the broken bone main- tained in their proper relations, and extension effected by means of handkerchiefs, or square pieces of linen or calico, folded in the form of neckcloths, which, when applied, conceal from the surgeon’s view but a small part of the limb. M. Maj'or is the principal advocate of this method. According to him, it is appli- cable to all fractures of the extremities ; but it is in fractures of the lower extremity that he especially recommends it, adopting it, in those of the upper, only when there is some serious complication that obliges the patient to remain in bed. M. Sauter’s apparatus con- sists of an oblong board, thick enough to support the weight of the limb without yielding, two or three inches longer than the limb, or the part of it that is broken, and from six to nine inches broad ; of thick cushions stuffed with chaff or hair ; of bands folded as described above, to preserve the reduction ; and of cords, for the purpose of suspending the board or splint. Let us sup- pose that we have a fracture of the leg to treat with this apparatus. We construct a splint long enough to extend from the ham to two or three inches below the heel, and pierced at the four angles with holes for the passage of suspension cords. The ends of two cords, about thrice the length of the splint, are passed through the holes, and so knotted below the splint that they will be too large, when drawn up, to pass through again. It is immaterial whether the ends of each cord are passed through two holes on the same side of the splint, or those of one through the upper, and those of the other through the lower holes. Under the middle of these cords another long one is now to be slipped, the ends of which are to be made fast to a hook Fig. 299. in the roof of the bed, the ceiling, or a move- able frame contrived for this purpose, in such a manner that the splint shall be suspended in the precise place, and at the height conve- nient for the patient to have his leg placed on it. The leg is now laid on the splint, resting immediately on a cushion, and the surgeon performs reduction and coaptation. Finally, these are maintained, according to the exigen- cies of the case, by two or three handkerchiefs folded cravat-wise. One of these is passed like a figure-of-eight bandage round the ankle and instep, to be tied under the sole of the foot, and fastened to the bottom of the splint, for the purpose of making permanent exten- sion. The two others are passed round the leg at such places that the surgeon may be able by their means to preserve the reduction, and either tied behind the splint, or made fast to it on one or both sides. Screw-nails, the heads of which are formed into rings for the convenience of tying the ends of the bands to them, are fixed at the bottom of the splint, and at the points where they will be needed along the sides. It is easy to adapt this method to the treatment of fractures of the thigh, by using a straight splint the length of the whole limb, or a separate splint for the thigh, united at any angle we please to the leg-splint, and with or without a foot-board. Fig. 300. In either case the lower part of the apparatus is to be suspended in a manner similar to that just described. M. Mayor forms splints of all kinds, for the purpose of putting M. Sau- ter’s system in practice, made of strong wire bent into the shape of the outline of the splint. Finer wire is then woven across this, so as to form a sufficiently firm bed for the support of the cushions and limb. The bands can be made fast to the side wires at any point and to the foot-piece, which can be bent at plea-