427 ASPHYXIA. it is strange that Bichat should have added, that in the ordinary state of health, “ a series of strong expirations will not be found to quicken the pulse.” In considering all these different theories, it appears to us that much more is to be attributed to the effects of the mechanical movements of the thorax, in carrying out the pulmonary circulation, than seems willing to be conceded. When the foetus makes its first inspiration, the expansion of the thorax carries with it the subservient lungs, and two new currents are immediately established in these organs ; one a current of air by the trachea, the other a current of blood by the pulmonary arteries ; and which latter current is diverted towards the respiratory organs by their expansion, otherwise it would move as before through the ductus arteriosus. This first respiratory movement acts strictly a mechanical part in bringing the two currents towards each other, and such being the case, the auxiliary power of Dr. Alison does not in this case exist, because the flow of blood to the air-cells is accomplished contemporaneously with the flow of atmospheric air. In after life, the regular succession of the involuntary respiratory movements is admitted, on all sides, to be most remarkable and diffi- cult of explanation. “ The increase of the blood’s impulse by expiration is in many per- sons so great, that the pulse at the radial artery becomes imperceptible when inspira- tion is long continued, and the breath held. This is the case with myself, and it in some 1 measure explains the fable, of persons pos- ; sessing the power of altering the actions of their heart at will The condition of the blood in the collapsed stage of malignant cholera, its dark character, and its extreme thickness from the loss of its serum, must offer great difficulty to its trans- mission through the lungs ; yet we know this to be accomplished, as is evidenced by the feeble pulse which is detected in the larger arteries ; and as the chemical changes of respi- ration are here nearly, if not wholly suspended, the transmission of the blood must be entirely dependent on therespiratory movements, which are performed with a gasping effort. When powerful emetics have been administered in this condition of the system, and when they have succeeded in producing vomiting, we have repeatedly observed the pulse return for a short time in the smaller arteries ; which stimulus to the circulation was doubtless effected by the respiratory movements which accompany this action. Before we enter upon the consideration of i the general treatment of asphyxia, it is neces- i sarv to notice briefly the interesting researches | of Dr. Edwards3. The first inquiry of Dr. Edwards we shall j notice, is that which relates to the compara- 1 Muller’s Physiology, by Baly. 3 Influence des ngens physiques sur la vie. tive influence of air and water upon the ner- vous and muscular systems,—a question, as Dr. Kay justly remarks, of grave importance, when considered as affecting the treatment of asphyxia. The singular power possessed by reptiles, of living a considerable time after the excision of the heart, afforded Dr. Edwards a means by which the respective influence of air and water could be appreciated. By the removal of the heart, the circulation of the blood, and, as a necessary consequence, respi- ration, are annihilated. A part of the blood escapes ; and that portion which remains may be regarded as a constituent part of the or- gans. The nervous and muscular systems alone are left, and these are inseparably con- nected. If, after having cut out the hearts of reptiles, taking care to remove also the bulb of the aorta, an equal number be placed in air, and in water deprived of air, the dif- ference in the duration of life, if any difference exist under these two circumstances, will in- dicate the respective influence of these me- dia on the nervous and muscular systems, independently of that which it may exert on the circulation and respiration. Dr. Edwards removed the heart and bulb of the aorta from four salamanders; he ex- posed two of these to the air, and immersed two others in water of the same temperature, which had been deprived of air by boiling. In about four or five hours the salamanders in water appeared dead ; but that life still existed was rendered evident, when they were moved or pinched. One died in eight hours, the other in nine. Those in air, however, lived from twenty-four to twenty-six hours. These experiments he repeated with the same precautions, upon six other salamanders, and obtained similar results ; hence he inferred, that air, in comparison with water, has a supe- rior vivifying influence upon the system of these animals, independent of its action by means of circulation and respiration. Similar experiments were also performed on frogs, six of which were placed in air, and six in water deprived of air. Those in w’ater lived two hours, those in air three ; and their activity, which continued to be considerable after the excision of the heart, decreased much more rapidly in the water than in the air, and sti- mulation produced much less effect. What confirms, however, in the most striking manner, the vivifying effect of air, and the de- leterious effect of water on the nervous sys- tem, is the following. If a frog, deprived of its heart and immersed in water, be drawn out and exposed to the air, at the moment when all signs of life have disappeared, it immediately begins to recover. If it again be plunged in water, all appearance of life in- stantly ceases ; and it may thus be made seve- ral times alternately to lose and recover its motion and sensibility. In order to determine the influence of the circulation of venous blood on the nervous system, frogs, whose hearts had been removed, and an equal number of these animals unin-