122 ENCEPHALOCELE. not ossified. This woman had a pointed bony tumour in the back part of her pelvis. It may appear unlikely that blows received by the mother during pregnancy would induce en- cephalocele, as children are daily born per- fectly well formed even after violent blows have been inflicted on the mother, or great and permanent compression has been exer- cised on the abdomen for purposes of con- cealment ; yet it has been long known that such causes may greatly injure the child, without inducing abortion. Thus Hippocrates says, “ Quin et alia hujusce modi causa muti- lantur pueri; quum uteri locus, qua parte mutilati sunt, angustior fuerit; necesse est corpus, quod angusto in loco movetur, illic mutilum fieriAnd cases have been re- corded by Lesage and Chaussier, in which the foetus had been injured by blows received by the mother. Roux1 2 gives a case of hernia of the posterior part of the encephalon in an infant, whose mother fell from a considerable height in the seventh month of pregnancy. She had been previously well, but from that moment felt poorly, and the child never ap- peared 10 move so freely as before. Faulty position of the child may check the progress of ossification. Thus Cruveilhier, in his remarks on a case in which the posterior part of the occipital bone was absent, ascribes it to a renversement de la tele en arriere during gestation. Otto says, that, in all the cases he has observed, the hernia was owing to effusion ; and the defective ossification of the cranial bones was one of the consequences of the elfusion. In many cases of encephalocele, no mecha- nical cause can be traced : and then it must either be attributed to the primitive germ having been incomplete or defective ; or to accidental malformation, resulting from un- known causes, which impede the regular pro- gress of organization,—either primitive atro- phy, or destruction of parts already formed. Gall and Spurzheim advocated the former opinion ; but it is entirely destitute of proof ; nor are we likely to know much more of the latter, until the normal process of the growth of the foetus shall have been much more accu- rately observed. It would certainly appear, however, that, in some cases, there was some defect, temporary or permanent, in one or both parents; for defective formation ha3 been observed in several successive children of the same parents. Thus six children of the same parent were found to have deficient formation of the brain 3 ; and numerous analo- gous cases are on record, both in man and the lower animals. The defect is sometimes clearly hereditary, for Osiander saw the skull of a bitch membranous in several places, and she had produced similar puppies. Encephalocele has been attributed to the compression of the head in its passage through 1 De Genitura, cap. vi. 2 Archives Gen. dc Med. tom. xxvi. p. 42. 3 Penada, Saggiod’Osservazioui c Meinoric. Padtia, 1793. the pelvis during labour: but this would clearly be prevented by overlapping of the edges of the bones ; and the opinion is further contradicted by pathological observation, for the edges of the osseous opening are regularly rounded off, and neither rupture of the dura mater nor traces of contusion or inflammation in the displaced organs have been observed. Scat and Pathology.—Underwood, who is one of the first English authors who seems to have known anything of this disease, says, it is “ always situate either on one of the fonta- nelles, or in the course of one of the sutures The description of Callisen is much more accurate : “ margine ossis deficientis, sive in media ossis parte, sive in suturae interstitio 2.” And more extended experience has shown, that it frequently passes through an opening left by an entire or partial deficiency of one bone, or between portions of a bone which are not united to each other in the early periods of intra-uterine life by bone, but where membrane supplies the place of bone. Thus the frontal bone has been entirely defi- cient, and the frontal suture frequently re- mains unconsolidated. In the Museum of the Royal College of Surgeons, are four European skulls, in which the frontal suture is unobliter- ated ; and, in a note to the catalogue, it is stated, that Dr. Leach and others, who have examined the crania in the catacombs of Paris, found this to be the case in at least one in eleven of the skulls they examined. Complete absence of these bones, or of the parietal, though described by some observers, is only met with in anencephalous monsters, and therefore is not connected with our subject. Parts of the parietal bones may be unossified, and they are occasionally divided into two portions by an irregular suture. Billardstates that he met with a case of anomalous develop- ment of the bones of the head, in which the osseous fibres, instead of shooting from the centre to the circumference, were interrupted and disposed in small isolated masses, a carti- laginiform substance being interposed between them3. Baillie says, that in cases of hydro- cephalus, “ the bones are found to be very thin, often not thicker than a shilling, and there are frequently broad spots of membrane in the bone The squamous portion of the temporal bone has been deficient, or divided into several pieces ; and Billard relates a case in which a great part of the left hemisphere of the cerebrum was lodged in a sac formed by arachnoid, dura mater, and integuments, and had passed from the cavity of the cranium through an opening left by the complete ab- sence of the squamous portion of the tem- poral bone. The ethmoid bone is occasion- ally imperfectly formed, giving rise to con- genital encephalocele into the nose. Meckel says he has some specimens, in which the ethmoid is divided by a suture into two por- ’ On the Diseases of Children, vol. ii. p. 128. 2 Systema Cliirurgue Hodiernae, vol. ii. p. 512. 3 Traite des Maladies dee Enfans, p. 596. 1 Morbid Anatomy, 5th ed. 1818. p. 461.