CLUB-FOOT. 794 to bring down the heel after the section of the tendo Achillis in the simpler forms of dis- tortion. That employed by Dr. Little (fig. 174) accomplishes more than Stromeyer’s ma- chine ; it is adapted to effect the extension of the heel and the eversion of the foot at the same time. In the more aggravated cases of varus, where the tendons of the adductor muscles, as well as the tendo achillis, require division, Dr. Little recommends the section to be performed at different periods ; he di- vides, in the first instance, the tendons of those muscles which produce the eversion, and applies the splint represented at fig. 179 to Fig. 179. Fig. 179. Dr. Little's Splint for effecting eversion in a case of varus. bring the foot to a right line with the leg ; after which the case is treated as simple pcs equinus. After the division of the tendons of the peronei muscles for the cure of valgus, a boot furnished with a curved spring, the con- vexity of which is applied to the inside of the leg, so that it will act in a direction opposite to the distortion, is sufficient to rectify the eversion. The points on which a correct diagnosis of cases suited to the operation depends, may be gathered from what has been said under the head Nature of Club-foot, bearing in mind the characteristics of genuine talipes laid down by Stromeyer. Contracture, however, arising from the causes enumerated under the 1st, 2d, subdivision a, and 4th heads laid down by Stromeyer, (see p. 784,) although it does not constitute genuine club-foot, may frequently be much relieved, sometimes cured, by the sec- tion of the tendons implicated in keeping it up. A prognosis, favourable or unfavourable to the operation, must be founded on the degree of mal-formation resulting from long-continued mal-position ; on the amount of flexibility or contraction of the ligaments, the excess of which last complication, if not discovered till after the section of the tendons, may entirely frustrate that operation ; on the existence or non-existence of paralysis ; and on the degree of contractile power still existing in the con- tracted muscles. The following cases1 will tend to illustrate the principles I have endea- voured to develop :— “ 1. Talipes equinus, originating in paralysis of the anterior muscles of the leg. Ennalls, setat. 8, a healthy boy, whose right heel has been gradually drawn up since he recovered from a fever four years ago. The instep and dorsum pedis are now, February 20th, 1838, in a right line with the front of the leg. No inversion or eversion of the foot. He walks upon the bent toes of that foot. The muscles of the calf become extremely rigid as soon as extension of the heel is attempted, and a por- tion of the mass corresponding with the situ- ation of the soleus is contracted into a hard fibrous knot. By bending the knee consider- ably, and employing force, the foot can be approximated somewhat towards its natural position. On directing the patient to attempt to draw up the foot and extend the toes, no action of the tibialis anticus can be detected, and the contraction of the long extensor of the toes is so slight as to be scarcely percep- tible. This observation led me to give a cau- tious prognosis as to the degree of power which the muscles might recover when the foot was restored to its proper position, as the origin of the deformity seemed to be traceable to paralysis of the tibialis anticus muscle. “ March 8. The achilles tendon was divided by a simple puncture through the skin, and a splint applied along the front of the tibia and dorsum of the foot, to maintain the mal- position for the present, and prevent too much retraction of the divided extremities of the tendon. “11. Removing the splint, I gave the foot gentle passive motion, and ascertained, by its action on the calf, that tolerably firm adhesion between the divided ends of the tendon al- ready existed. “ On the 12th a simple extending instrument was applied, and in three weeks from this time the foot was brought to a less angle than a right angle with the leg, and the patient was able to walk half a mile with great ease. Owing to the powerless condition of the ex- tensor muscles, he was obliged to throw his foot forward in walking, in order to apply the sole to the ground ; and no improvement in this particular had taken place when I saw him some months afterwards. “ 2. Varus complicated with retraction of the heel.—The history of the case is as follows:— H. C. Esq., actat. 29, a graduate of Cambridge, 1 From a paper oil the Pathology and Treatment of Club-foot, by the writer of this article, published in the Lancet, vol. ii. 1839, May 25.