165 AMPUTATION. though the circular be the best, as a gene- ral method, the other plans will be often of great value in particular cases. ELBOW-JOINT. Amputation of thefore-arm at the elhow-joint.— The objection to amputating in an extensive articulation, and the difficulty attaching to the performance of the operation are deemed, very generally, a sufficient reason for pre- ferring the amputation in the continuity of the lower third of the humerus, to the abla- tion of the fore-arm, by penetrating into the joint. Setting, however, these considerations aside, we are ready to acknowledge, that it is a great advantage to save the lower third of the humerus ; and that the operation has been attended with a fair average of success. The precise situation of the joint is readily ascertained, by the lateral prominences of the three bones that form it. In front, the heads of the radius and ulna are nearly on the same level, and form a transverse line, interrupted only by the slight elevation of the coronoid process of the ulna ; and hence the facility of carrying the edge of the knife, at one stroke, into the joint. The operation may be per- formed either by the circular or flap method. With a single flap.—The fore-arm being in supination, and slightly bent, a long, slender, double-edged knife is passed on the flat, close to the bones and in front of the joint, trans- versely, beginning at the ulnar side, from a little below the tuberosity of the humerus on one side to the same point on the other; the edge of the knife being downwards, a flap is formed of about three inches in length, by cutting obliquely downwards and outwards. Another transverse incision, extending from one angle of the base of the flap to the same point on the opposite side, com- pletes, by a semicir- cular sweep, the di- vision of the skin and muscles at the back of the joint. The an- terior flap is retrac- ted, the knife enters the articulation be- tween the radius and humerus, cutting the external lateral liga- ment, and disarticu- lating the radius; the point of the knife is then applied to the ligaments that con- nect the ulna and hu- merus; those of the olecranon are most accessible at the back of the joint. Fig. 24. Flap amputation of the fore-arm at the elbow- joint, the flap taken from the soft parts on the front of the fore-arm; the articular surfaces of the humerus are seen at the back part of the wound. Dupuytren, in some cases, used to saw off the olecranon, although it does not appear that he had any very decided motive, either for adopting or omitting that step. It is quite certain that the triceps will still have the power of moving the arm after the olecra- non is removed. Its removal gives more re- gularity to the stump, while it also diminishes the extent of the wound. The saw may be made to attack it, either from front or back. Brasdor used to form the posterior flap first. Velpeau’s plan combines the features of an amputation in the continuity and in the con- tiguity, as he removes the coronoid and ole- cranon processes of the ulna with the saw. In this way the operation is freed from the difficulties encountered in the disarticulation of the ulna, and the extent of wound is les- sened. Circular method.—The surgeon, standing on the outside of the arm, makes a circular in- cision, from an inch and a half to two inches below the joint, cutting down to the fascia; he then dissects the skin with its adipose mem- brane up to the level of the articulation. It is then retracted, or turned back by an as- sistant, and the muscles are cut down to the bones. The lateral ligaments are cut, and the bones are disarticulated, by pulling the fore-arm downwards ; the point of the knife is made to turn round the olecranon, and the tendon of the triceps attached to it is cut through. Velpeau gives a decided preference to the circular method in amputation of the fore-arm at the elbow-joint. In regard to the ligature of the arteries, it makes this difference—that there is but one to tie, the brachial; whereas, in the flap method, where the muscles are cut for three or four inches down the fore-arm, this artery is cut below its bifurcation. The wound which is made chiefly on cutaneous parts will also be more disposed to speedy union and less to suppuration. THE ARM. The humerus is a single bone, enveloped on all sides with muscles, except at its lower part. These muscles may be classed in three series: those that come from the trunk to be inserted into it; those that lie upon it without adher- ing to ; and those that cover and adhere to it. The first are inserted into the upper part of the bone ; the second into the fore-arm, and the last belong more strictly to the humerus itself. Larrey objects, but seemingly without suf- ficient grounds, to amputation being per- formed at the upper part of the bone, pre- ferring its total extirpation by amputating in the articulation itself. When the large mus- cles of tne trunk are divided in amputating above the insertion of the deltoid, they cer- tainly do retract to a considerable extent, and the supra-spinal muscles act without any an- tagonizing control; but notwithstanding this, the inconvenience which Larrey apprehends,