ARTERIES, ANOMALIES OF. 393 which the epigastric lay so close on the upper part of the sac that it must have been wounded if the surgeon cut directly upwards, and he mentions two instances in which this mode of operating was followed by fatal haemorrhage from a wound of the epigastric artery. Du- puytren endeavoured to avoid this accident by cutting that portion of the fascia lata which is attached to, and renders tense the crural arch, and, if we are to believe M. M. Roche and Sanson, never wounded the epigastric. But on the other hand the late Dr. A. Thomson, who for many years devoted himself exclu- sively to the anatomy of hernia, has assured us that he had positive proofs that Dupuytren wounded the epigastric artery on three several occasions, and M. Verpillat, the author of a w'ell-written paper on femoral hernia, was in- formed by M. Robert, that he had examined the bodies of two persons who died from haemorrhage under similar circumstances. The obturator artery is as liable to irregu- larities of origin as any other in the body. The most common form is that in which it arises by a common trunk with the internal epigastric. According to Cloquet’s experi- ence, with which our own observations fully coincide, this occurs once in three times ; ac- cording to Hesselbach even more frequently, or three times out of five. When the obtura- tor arises from a trunk common to it and the epigastric, it may detach itself from the latter vessel either above, below, or to the outer side of the femoral ring. In the last of the three cases just mentioned, the obturator crosses the external margin of the ring, and is liable to be wounded if the opera- tor cut obliquely upwards and outwards. In the first case, it winds along the edge of Gim- bernat’s ligament, to which it approximates more or less closely, according to the length of the common trunk. Finally, when the ob- turator separates from the epigastric below the femoral ring, it is situate quite close to this latter, and sometimes passes through it to gain the edge of the pubis. These diffe- rent varieties of origin and disposition are so multiplied and combined as frequently to lead to fatal accidents during the operation for strangulated hernia, even when performed by the most skilful and experienced hands. If, as some surgeons recommend, we divide Gimbernat’s ligament freely, we incur a very great risk of wounding the obturator artery. Scarpa is of opinion that this occurred in the case related by Mr. Hey. A similar accident happened to Mursinna ; the femoral ring was completely surrounded by an arterial circle ; on the inner side lay the obturator; on the outer the epigastric, and both vessels crossed immediately in front of the tumour above. Although the fibrous coat of the obturator had been merely grazed by the knife, haemor- rhage supervened on the eighth day and carried off the patient. M. Breschet relates an analogous case, in which the occurrence of a similar accident was prevented by the cau- tion of the operator, who divided Gimbernat’s ligament to the extent merely of two lines. On reducing the hernia, and passing up the index finger, the pulsations of an artery were distinctly felt on either side of the ring. The patient died, and on examination it was found that the obturator artery lay on the inner side of the neck of the sac, and would have been divided had the incision been carried one or two lines further. The epigastric artery ran along the outer side of the sac, but was distant from it four or five lines ; while the spermatic and supra-pubic arteries lay so much in front, that they would have been wounded by carrying the incision directly upwards. The obturator artery, as we have already said, occasionally arises below Poupart’s liga- ment, from the femoral. A good example of this kind was preserved in the Museum of Guy’s Hospital. In such cases the obturator commonly ascends close on the pectineus muscle, and internal to the femoral vein, and consequently would be found behind the sac in femoral hernia, but we have seen two examples in which the vessel advanced so far forwards, and left beneath it such a space that a femoral hernia must have passed imme- diately behind it. As in the operation for strangulated hernia, so also in that of lithotomy, do anomalies of the arterial system frequently give rise to fatal accidents. “ Haemorrhage,” says Boyer, “ is one of the commonest accidents which occur during lithotomy. The blame is often thrown on the operator, or on the method of operation, which he may have adopted; but in most cases, unjustly, for the perineal arteries pre- sent such a multitude of varieties both in situ- ation and course, that the most skilful sur- geon can never be sure of avoiding them, no matter what mode of operation he may adopt.” The pudic artery, in its third stage, instead of lying close on the rami of the ischium and pubis, may approximate more or less to the median line of the perineum. Deschamps accuses Desault of having wounded the pudic in this stage, and adds, “ that he has fre- quently seen arterial blood spout, at the first incision, from this vessel, or from some of its branches.” In some cases the superficial artery of the perineum presents the same anomaly as the pudic, and the same accidents result from its lesion. The dorsal artery of the penis, as was first observed by Winslow, and since by Burns, Monro, Meckel, and several other ana- tomists, sometimes arises from the obturator or some branch of the hypogastric, and having passed along the side of the bladder, pene- trates the upper part of the prostate gland to gain the dorsum of the penis. In some cases, instead of penetrating the prostate, it runs along the side of the gland, and is then even more exposed to injury during the lateral operation. An anomaly of this kind was the cause of an unfortunate accident which occurred in the practice of Ihc late Mr. Shaw.