EMPYEMA. 101 presenting certain peculiarities of an excep- tional kind. Thus, the shoulder is not always depressed ; on the contrary, it may be raised considerably above the natural level ; in this case the patient appears to lean to the healthy i side. Respecting the curve of the ribs noticed by M. Woillez ; this observer is no doubt cor- I rcct in regard to cases where the contraction mainly affects the transverse diameter, but the curvature will on the contrary be greater | than natural, where the antero-posterior dia- j meter has been chiefly involved in the retro- cession. From a case which wpe have lately observed, we should be inclined to think that permanent displacement of the heart is one of I the most effectual causes of diminution of the antero-posterior diameter. There are some other measurements af- fected by this contraction, upon which little ! attention has hitherto been bestowed: for | example, the distances between the nipple and the median line of the sternum, be- tween the nipple and the antero-superior spine of the ileum, and between the twelfth rib and that spine. In the subject whose thorax is figured at p. 103 (vide Fig. 232.) the distance from the nipple to the middle line was an inch and a quarter less on the affected than on the sound side. We have found a deficiency of three quarters of an inch betw'een the nipple and iliac spine, and of half an inch between the twelfth rib and that spine in other cases. Now, as re- spects these two latter measurements, if flat- tening of the contracted side may to a cer- tain extent explain the deficiency in the first of them (on the supposition that the spine of the ileum on the diseased side is, as Laennec appears from his drawings to have believed to be the fact, lower than its fellow), it can scarcely be considered to account for that in the second of them : indeed, according to our own experience, the influence of the contrac- tion does not extend to the pelvis, which has appeared to us equally high on both sides. It may be observed, that although the nipple is visibly lower than its fellow in some cases, the superficial measurement between the nipples and the sternoclavicular articulations does not differ to any appreciable amount, or may be actually less on the diseased than on the healthy side. The position of the heart after absorption with contraction is not the same in all cases. 1. The organ having slowly or rapidly, gra- dually or suddenly, retraced its steps, recovers either its natural situation, or the immediate vicinity of this: here is the most common case. 2. It remains in the abnormal position into which it was forced by the effusion, in conse- quence, probably, of the establishment of ad- hesions (vide Fig. 232. p. 103). 3. Dr. Stokes has made the following curious observation in a subject who recovered from empyema of the left side. From the time of recovery this person observed that, “whenever he turned on the right side the heart seemed to fall over and pulsate at the right of the ster- num. This curious phenomenon still [three months after recovery] continues. In the erect position the heart occupies a situation midway between the usual position and the sternum ; but when he turns on the right side, immediately the pulsations can be felt to the right of the sternum ; whilst they cease at the left side. The sound on percussion, too, varies with the position of the heart. In this case there can be no doubt that the mediastinum, stretched by the empyema, has not recovered its tone, and permits by its extension, this extraordinary change of the situation of the heart 4. In certain cases of empyema of the right side the heart has been observed to be drawn, during the pro- gress of absorption, into the right division of the thorax. This mode of displacement is probably more common than has been sup- posed : Dr. Stokes, who was the first to pub- lish an example of it, lays considerable stress upon rapidity of absorption, as a condition of its occurrence; but although such rapidity may facilitate, we doubt much that it is neces- sary for, its accomplishment. The force of suction, brought into action by the removal of the pleural fluid, does not limit its tractive influence to the parts so far men- tioned. The diaphragm is occasionally drawn permanently upwards, as particularly observed by Dr. Williams, carrying with it the liver on the right and the stomach on the left side. In certain cases, especially where some degree of pneumonia has co-existed with the pleuritic inflammation, dilatation of the bronchi is, according to the observation of Dr. Wil- liams, very frequently produced,—a circum- stance which he explains as follows: “In pleuro-pneumonia the lung is inflamed, and at the same time compressed by an effusion in the sac of the pleura. Now' if it remain long in this state, the smaller air-tubes and cells become obliterated by the adhesion of their sides, so that when the liquid is removed from the pleura, they will not expand again with the enlargement of the chest ; but the large and middle-sized bronchi are not obliterated ; they bear the whole force of the inspired air, and become consequently dilated by' it. This kind of dilatation is usually conjoined with contraction of the affected side.”—(Lectures, p. 84.) Some years since, Dr. Corrigan2 de- scribed, under the title of “ cirrhosis,” an affec- tion of the lung characterized by deposition of adventitious contractile tissue in the cellulo- fibrous stroma of the organ. Dr. Corrigan believes, with apparent justness, that the shrivelling of such tissue deposited between the bronchial tubes must prove an efficient cause of dilatation of these. In respect of the relation of this affection to pleurisy, he ob- serves : “ In some cases the diseased action may extend along the interlobular cellular tissue of the lung, and then the result will be the combination of cirrhosis with pleuritis, 1 Op. citand. j>. 510. 2 Dublin Medical Journal, vol. xiii. p. 26G: 1830,