873 DIPLOPIA. DIAERESIS. See Division. DILATATION, from dilatarc, to enlarge. In surgical language this term denotes the effect of excentric pressure,—that is, pressure exerted from the centre towards the circum- ference, as in the enlargement by various mechanical means of natural or artificial out- lets or canals. The surgeons of former times used to have recourse to dilatation under circumstances in which the moderns, preferring simple incisions, reject it altogether. Thus Marianus employ- ed dilators in the operation for the stone, and Leblanc in that for strangulated hernia. Con- tusion and laceration of parts were of course the inevitable consequences. The employment of dilatation is now limited to the temporary enlargement of apertures through which operations at a certain depth may be the more easily performed, as the mouth, vagina, and anus, by the speculum, or the fingers of an assistant ; and to the slow and prolonged widening of natural openings, or canals that have been narrowed or obliter- ated, as the rectum, urethra, nasal ducts, nos- trils, eustachian tube, and external meatus auditorius. Dilators for these purposes are tents or meshes of lint, prepared sponge, gentian or iris-root, bougies of metal, catgut or gum-elastic, various kinds of speculums, &c. DILATOR. An instrument employed to effect the dilatation of natural or accidental apertures, or mucous canals. DIPLOPIA (Sm\oo£, double, and <n\p, vision; visits duplicatus, double vision; Fr. diplopie; Ger. das Doppeltsehen.) Under this head we have to distinguish double vision with the two eyes, and double vision with one eye, as these two kinds of diplopia differ very essentially from each other in their nature. a. Double vision with two eyes. As double vision with two eyes is merely a disturbance of the conditions, on which single vision with two eyes depends, an inquiry into those conditions forms a necessary preliminary to the consideration of our subject. An affection of the retina is the primary condition of a visual perception, but a visual perception has in itself nothing to do with the optical apparatus regulating the transmission of the light which produces the affection. The question, therefore, why certain affec- tions of the two retinae should yield but a single, and others a double visual perception, is strictly physiological. All the purely phy- sical explanations which have been offered of binocular vision have obviously reference alone to conditions not at all connected with the visual perception, but, from the nature of the optical apparatus in front of the retinae, necessary, in order that the images of objects may be simultaneously projected on particular parts of those nervous expansions. The particular parts of the two retinae on which the rays of light from the same point of an object simultaneously fall, when the eyes have their natural corresponding direction, are the point of either membrane corresponding to the axis of the eyeball, and the various points or papillae of the temporal half of one, and of the nasal half of the other, similarly situated in reference to it. These points or papillae, called corresponding, identical, or anal- ogous, have naturally, it is said, such a sympa- thy, that the simultaneous affection of them is followed by a single visual perception only ; whilst double vision results from simultaneous impressions on any other parts of the two retinae. Objections have been urged against this doctrine of corresponding points of the retinae. Mr. Wheatstone’s ingenious observations1 are quite decisive in exposing the exclusive- ness of the doctrine as above stated, but that they do not overthrow it altogether, will I think be made to appear in the course of this article. I beg to premise, that it is not my object to inquire why a single visual perception should result from the simultaneous affection of cer- tain parts of the two retinae—whether the thing be original, and dependant on the orga- nization of the optic nervous apparatus, or whether it be a mere matter of experience, but simply to endeavour to analyze the pheno- menon as it is observed in the adult. The inference which Du Tour drew from his experiments 2 with a different colour pre- sented to each eye, viz. that though we might occasionally see at the same time with both eyes, yet the mind cannot perceive simul- taneously affections of corresponding points of the two retinae, is, I believe, in some degree correct, but all the circumstances attending single vision with two eyes are not compre- hended in it. Reducing to their essentials the phenomena observed in the experiments in question, it will be found :—that affections of corresponding papillae of the two retinae cannot be perceived by the mind at the same instant of time, but sometimes the one, some- times the other. That this is the case can of course be ascertained only when the two im- pressions affecting the retinae differ somewhat in colour, or otherwise, so as to be distinguish- able from each other. It is to be remarked, however, that if the impression on the one retina be much the stronger, the resulting sensation decidedly predominates over, or even excludes from the mind’s perception, that 1 Contributions to the Physiology of Vision, Part the First. On some remarkable and hitherto unob- served phenomena of binocular vision. Philosophical Transactions, Part ii. 1838. 2 Du Tour’s experiments consisted in looking at a white object through glasses of a different colour for each eye. The experiments may be conveniently repeated, by placing coloured discs in Mr. Wheat- stone’s stereoscope; or, in the absence of a stereoscope, by viewing two different coloured wafers in the man- ner immediately to be recommended for viewiug the figuves in this article.