II 2 EMPYEMA. <)<) have not actually observed this, when on the left). The mediastinum and heart are driven towards the healthy side; the displacement of the latter is most easily recognised, for obvious reasons, when the left pleura is diseased. In extreme cases, the pulsations of the organ are to be felt beyond the right nipple, when the effusion is in the left pleura ; and under the left scapula, (Begin,) when the right side is affected. A daily increase in the amount of detrusion, dependent upon that of effusion, may sometimes be followed ; but even where the gradual progress of displace- ment has not been observed, the error (com- mitted even by Dr. Baillie) of supposing such displacement an effect of congenital transposi- tion of the viscera, is now unlikely to be com- mitted. In cases where particular circum- stances might warrant doubt, the position of the liver and spleen (according to the inge- nious idea put in practice by Dr. Stokes) might be made to facilitate the diagnosis ; for in cases of transposition of the heart, the abdominal viscera have likewise been found transposed. The dull sound sometimes extends a few lines beyond the sternum, even at the upper part of its surface, indicating that the mediastinum has yielded to the same extent. Our observations upon the order in which these displacements occur, have not been suf- ficiently numerous to warrant any general in- ference on the point. This order is, however, we are satisfied, not always the same ; at least, while we have commonly found detru- sion of the heart occur subsequently to the changes in shape of the intercostal spaces, we have in rarer instances known the reverse to be the case. Speculative reasons might easily be assigned for this irregularity. A sign, described by Dr. C. Tarral under the name of peripheric fluctuation, is at this time, or earlier, to be established ; especially if the contents of the pleura be extremely fluid, and the thoracic parietes thin. If a quick sharp fillip be given in an intercostal space, perpendicular to the surface, a sensa- tion of fluctuation is transmitted to a finger of the other hand firmly applied to the surface in the same space, at a short distance from the point percussed. Fluctuation may sometimes be detected (as has been long known) by simply pressing with the finger in an inter- costal space, or by the alternate movement of the fingers employed for the detection of fluctuation in an abscess ; but these signs are rarely obtainable. Abdominal pressure on the affected side, a procedure recommended by Bichat as afford- ing useful information, from the increase of dyspnoea thereby produced, is now recog- nised to have no such effect. Pressure of the sound side, by interfering with the ex- pansion of the corresponding lung, occasionally augments the difficulty of breathing, as ob- served by Rullier1, Chomel, and Townsend : ' Art. citand. p. 61. but the sign is one of very' secondary value and importance. Both respiratory murmurs are nowr com- pletely absent, except in a space about three fingers broad along the spine, corresponding to the situation of the compressed lung : in rare instances the sounds continue audible under the clavicle. All resonance of the voice has now ceased. The dulness under percussion is now ex- tremely general, and may extend even above the clavicle. Dr. Williams observes, that oc- casionally, even in these advanced cases, there is, at a particular stage of the effusion, a tra- cheal or tubular sound to be found below the clavicle and in the axilla, caused by the larger tubes, which are not yet compressed. [ The condition of the parts in empyema of the left side is shown in the subjoined diagram by Dr. Williams : the dotted lines mark the altered position of the heart.] Fig. 231. The rapidity with which dilatation arises varies with several circumstances, among which the rate of effusion is evidently the chief. Laennec affirms he has seen manifest dilatation within four hours from the outbreak of the disease ; and there appears nothing improbable in the statement, though M. Woillez combats it, and believes the great observer to have been deceived by some physiological prominence. In support of Laennec’s accuracy, it may be urged that pre- existing alterations of the pulmonary tissue, such as vesicular emphysema, hypertrophy, chronic solidification or tuberculization, which all of them lessen its elastic contractility, must exercise a material influence upon the time required for the reduction of the lung to its positive volume, and hence modify the celerity with which dilatation will arise. It follow s from the principle just referred to, that the quantity of effusion requisite to induce dilatation must exceed that capable of being easily contained between the collapsed lung and the walls of the chest without com- pression of the former ; sufficient proof, inde- pendently of all others, that dilatation in- volves the existence of very considerable ac- cumulation. It has been maintained by Dr. Stokes, that mere pressure from within is insufficient to account for the intercostal displacement in