ANEURISM. 257 Fig. 81. No. 1. a, the occipital artery; b, the vein, with its branches crossing the artery; c c, the liga- ture passed under the vessel. No. 2. a, the carotid artery; b, the internal jugular vein ; c, the omo-hyoideus muscle; d, the external jugular rein ; e ee, the sheath of the artery and rein, which has been laid open; f the dcscendens noni; g g, the ligature passed beneath the artery ; h h, re- tractors holding the lips of the tvound asunder. No. 3. Mr. Hodgson's plan, a, the axillary artery ; b, the brachial plexus; c, the vein receiving the cephalic vein and other lesser veins ; d d, the ligature passed beneath the artery ; e, a retractor raising the convex border, or flap of the wound. This is the usual mode of cutting down on the superior third of the axillary artery ; the objection to which it is liable, on account of the transverse section of so many muscular fibres, has given origin to another method, which is an extension of the preceding one, and seems to deserve a preference ; though, of course, this must depend more or less on the nature of the case requiring its application. The pectoralis major consists of a sternal and a clavicular portion, at the junction of which there is an interstice, which can be rendered still more distinct, by forcibly abducting the arm. In this line an incision of the integu- ment is made, and the two portions of the muscle are carefully separated down to the cellular layer in contact with its under surface. The direction of this incision runs in an ob- lique line, produced from the outer edge of the sterno-cleido-mastoideus, beginning at the inferior border of the clavicle, at the junction of its inner, with its two outer thirds, and ex- tending downwards about three inches. The two portions of the muscle being held asunder, the vessels and nerves are seen in the relative positions already described. The arm is then brought close to the trunk. If the space ob- tained by separating the two portions of the muscle should not be found sufficient to enable the operator to isolate the artery with facility, he may divide transversely some of the fibres attached to the clavicle, on a director, or with a probe-pointed bistoury. The artery is se- parated from the vein in the same manner, as before-described, and the ligature being passed beneath it, the operation is terminated. The hazardous dives made with the needle, which were practised in the early operations on this vessel, are now very properly condemned, and universally rejected. After the ligature has been placed on the main trunk, although the arm does not possess the same advantages in point of supply as the thigh, it not having any vessels to correspond with the internal iliac, and profunda, still the circulation will be carried on, and sufficient nourishment afforded through the superior branches, the acromial, superficial scapular, transversalis colli, and internal mammary, all of which anastomose with the circumflex, sub- scapular, and internal mammary. In operating on the axillary artery, the cutting instrument should be laid aside as soon as the cellular tissue which invests it, is exposed; the rest should be effected with the finger-nail, or a blunt-pointed instrument. VOL. i. Axillary aneurisms, like all others, have .,een sometimes observed to undergo spontaneous cure ; but to refrain from operating at an early stage, when the chances of success are greatest, in the hope of such an unlikely result, would be mere folly. These operations are certainly difficult, and demand the utmost patience and pains’-taking ; any attempt at hurry or display in the performance, would be highly culpable. SUBCLAVIAN ARTERY. Though the course of this vessel be short, it may be tied at three different points, viz. on the first rib, to the outside of the anterior scalenus ; between the two scaleni; and on the inside of these muscles. Fig. 82. Fig. 82 represents the operation by transverse incision for placing a ligature on the subclavian artery above, and on the axillary artery below the clavicle. The shotilder is depressed, and the. arm drawn away a little from the trunk; the neck is stretched, and the head inclined to the opposite side. No. 1. a, the subclavian artery, raised on an aneurism needle d, and presenting itself between (c) the nerves of the brachial plexus, which lie to its outside, and the edge of the anterior scalenus, which lies to its inside, separating it from b, the external jugular vein, which descends behind the clavicle to empty itself in the subclavian vein; the outer border of the clavicular attachment of the stemo-cleido-mastoid is seen in the inner angle of the wound; the omo- hyoideus is raised with the upper border of the wound, and branches of nerves are seen crossing it at the external angle; e’e, retractors; f the ligature. No. 2. In the upper border of the wound the clavicular attachment of the pectoralis major is seen divided; in the lower, the superior border of the pectoralis minor and the section of the pectoralis major are depressed, a, the axillary artery raised on an aneur- ism needle; b, the axillary vein receiving the cephalic vein, which crosses the brachial plexus and the artery. A branch of the thoracico-acromialis which impeded the operation, teas tied, and is seen turned back upon the upper lip of the incision; c, the nerves of the brachial plexus ; d, the cephalic vein; e, the thoracico- acromialis ivhich has been cut and tied; f the aneur- isnial needle sustaining the artery; g,a retractor; h, the ligature hanging from the eye of the needle.