58 ADHESION. tion. It may also be the result of disease, as in dry gangrene, or of operations performed on the vessels, as in blood-letting, the applica- tion of a ligature, refoulement (see Torsion of Arteries), wounds, &c. The value of torsion as a means of arresting haemorrhage is entirely established on the production of adhesion in the coats of the twisted vessel, which takes place much more rapidly than when a ligature is applied. How strange it is, that English surgeons, who have been so long in the habit of healing by first intention, for which the process of torsion is so admirably suited, should be slow to adopt it; while the French sur- geons, whose conversion to the doctrine of healing by first intention has been so tardy, have shown a readiness to abandon the liga- ture ! The obliteration of a vessel converts it into a fibrous cord. (See Ligature, Aneu- rism, Artery, Phlebitis.) Adhesions have also been observed in the thoracic duct. M. Nasse, of Bonn, found the thoracic duct obliterated, from the second lumbar vertebra to the left subclavian vein, and converted into a cord as thick as a goose quill, though the valves were still distinguish- able. Sir Astley Cooper has seen three cases in which this canal was partially closed ; and Andral has seen one. The obliteration of the lymphatic vessels has not, perhaps, on account of their exiguity, been observed ; but that such a change does take place has been inferred from analogy, as well as from the fact that they do inflame. M. Breschet, however, denies that any authentic observation has been made to establish a single case of the oblitera- tion of a lymphatic vessel. Adhesions of mucous surfaces.—Mucous mem- branes resemble, in their organization, that of the skin, with which they are continuous at the various natural apertures of the body. The skin is provided with an inorganic layer for its protection, called the epiderm ; the mucous membranes have also a similar protection, derived from their epithelium, which is an epi- derm of extreme tenuity spread over the se- creting surfaces. When examined with a mi- croscope the mucous membrane is, moreover, found covered with a soft villous plush, which prevents perfect and intimate contact between different portions of the same membrane. On the subject of adhesion of mucous mem- branes there has been a great deal of discus- sion, some denying its possibility altogether, others maintaining that it did take place under certain circumstances. On this point, how- ever, it is obvious that it was rather a misun- derstanding than any real difference of opinion that prevailed. Bichat, who is said to have believed in the impossibility of adhesion in mucous membranes, was too good a physiolo- gist, and too accurate an observer, to have en- tertained, in an unqualified sense, any such opinion. There is unquestionably a most striking contrast in the adhesive disposition, and sus- ceptibility, in the two classes of membranes, and this for purposes so obvious, that we can- not refuse to acknowledge in this salutary ar- rangement a result of wisdom and foresight. Any considerable adhesion between mucous surfaces would, in many instances, be destruc- tive of life, as in obliteration of any point of the alimentary canal: while the omission, or the insusceptibility to contract adhesions in serous membranes, would often expose the in- dividual to the unbounded ravages of inflam- mation and extravasations, and bereave the practice of surgery of half its well-won laurels. The proneness on the one hand, and the in- susceptibility to contract adhesions on the other, may be thus exemplified. A collection of pus in one of the great cavities is carefully conducted towards the surface, where it is consigned to nature, or to the surgeon for its complete evacuation ; while an aneurism en- larges in an internal situation also, condensing and applying to itself all the cellular tissue it meets in its progress, till it is stopped by a mucous membrane, which refuses to adhere as the other structures had done ; and the sac bursts, and fatal haemorrhage follows. Like the skin there is hut one impediment to the adhesion of mucous membranes, and that is the epithelium ; remove it, and the adhesion, if there be contact, is easily pro- duced. One remarkable effect of chronic in- flammation in mucous canals is a gradual nar- rowing, even to complete obliteration in some cases ; this is observed in the trachea, where tracheotomy has furnished an aperture for breathing; in strictures of the intestinal and urethral canals, when the faeces or urine ob- tain other means of exit, without which life could not be prolonged. In acute inflammations of the mucous mem- branes, for instance of the pharynx or larynx, (anginapellicularis, or dipktheritc of M. Bre ton- neau,) membraniform flakes or layers are i thrown out, frequently in great profusion; \ they are exactly of the same nature as the plastic exudations from other tissues. They do not adhere to, or rather they are detached from, , the mucous membrane, in consequence of the > mucous membrane itself remaining entire, and therefore in a state incapable of contracting adhesion with the false membrane. Are the narrowings that take place in the mucous passages a result of adhesion ? Pro- bably not. The gradual diminution of these passages may be explained without the inter- vention of the adhesion of the. mucous sur- faces themselves, at least till a very advanced period of the progress of coarctation. The submucous cellular tissue may become the seat of deposits; it may be thickened or hy- pertrophied, so as to encroach upon those passages, and narrow them to such an extent as to embarrass them seriously, and even render impossible the fulfilment of their func- tions. The vagina is subject to this sort of narrowing from acute or chronic inflammation, and I have myself lately met a case in which the almost complete obliteration of this canal was coincident with, and perhaps a conse- quence of long standing engorgement and alteration of the structure of the uterus. Dr. Mackintosh of Edinburgh possesses a large