245 ANEURISM. sloughing of the tumour supervene. The Coagula within the sac are discharged, the suppurating cavity is filled with granulations, and if the patient’s health can support the dis- charge, cicatrization of the w'ound, and a per- fect cure of the disease, may take place. Hae- morrhage under such circumstances rarely occurs, both extremities of the arteries being plugged up with fibrine, in the same manner as blood-vessels are found in the neighbour- hood of mortified parts. In the records of operations for aneurism, a considerable number of cases will be found where the limb has mortified; and this may have been occasioned either from some ob- struction to the collateral circulation, or in some cases from the large bulk of the aneu- rism, causing a stagnation of blood in the smaller vessels, and capillaries. In general, however, when gangrene does occur, it is li- mited to small portions of the extremities, the fingers or toes, for instance, or the parts that have been too much subjected to pressure. Phlyctenous patches, followed by circum- scribed eschars are also sometimes observed. The limb, under these circumstances, is be- numbed, its sensibility is blunted, or a pricking sensation is felt more or less extensively. If the gangrene be limited, the sloughs are de- tached, and the sores heal, according as the collateral circulation becomes more and more fully established. When it extends to the whole limb, the surgeon should wait till its ravages are fairly circumscribed, before re- sorting to amputation. But by far the most alarming event which can happen after the operation, is hemor- rhage from the wound, an event which may in general be averted, but which, when it does occur, is fraught with danger. The numerous methods which have been attempted to im- prove the mode of applying the ligature, have all had the important object in view of dimi- nishing the risk of secondary or consecutive haemorrhage, and in the present advanced state of surgery, if a judicious treatment of patients previously and subsequently to the operation be duly attended to—if the case be a proper one for adopting the measure, and the operation in all respects well executed ; under such favourable circumstances, there will be little danger of secondary haemorrhage. It may happen, however, that, from some con- stitutional peculiarities which could not be foreseen, the wound does not heal by adhe- sion, but suppurates, sloughs, and exposes the artery to ulceration ; or the coats of the vessel may not be in a sound state, and will not ad- here at the place where they are brought into contiguity by the ligature, so that when it comes away, haemorrhage ensues, or, what is the most serious of all accidents, the noose may happen to be placed so close to a colla- teral branch, that there is not sufficient room for the blood to stagnate and coagulate for forming a plug to stay the current of the blood. From any of these causes a haemor- rhage may ensue ; the blood may flow either from the cardiac or from the capillary orifice, or it may occur from both at the same time. When the blood flows from the capillary ori- fice, it issues with much less impetuousity, and the blood itself has much more the appearance of venous blood than w'hen it bursts from the cardiac orifice. A vigorous depletive system will, I am con- vinced, in most cases, ensure the healing of the wound by adhesion; but when suppuration does take place, whether from such depletion not having been properly attended to, or from the soft parts around the artery having been too much displaced and injured by the opera- tion, every effort should be made to promote the growth of healthy granulations in the wound, by the ordinary local treatment, as well as to correct, as far as possible, any dis- turbance of the general health. Above all, essential benefit may, under such circum- stances, be derived from the use of either of the sulphates of quinine or iron, and the mi- neral acids ; the nervous system ought to be soothed and the circulating organs tranquil- lized with colchicum and narcotics. If, from the progress of the ulceration in the wound generally, or of the artery at the place of the ligature, a haemorrhage actually takes place, serious apprehensions may be en- tertained of the result of the operation, and the treatment to be adopted requires the greatest promptness and decision. The first impulse of the bystander, when a jet of blood comes from the wound, is to employ pressure, and, if the wound be sufficiently large to ad- mit the finger, the most manageable and effec- tual mode of applying it, is by placing the point of the finger, either with or without a small thick dossil of lint, on the bleeding ori- fice, employing only such degree of pressure as is necessary to arrest the haemorrhage until further means can be obtained. If the blood flows from the capillary orifice, a much less degree of pressure will be found necessary to stem it, than when it flows from the orifice on the cardiac side of the ligature. The mo- ment the flow of blood is controlled, all dress- ings and bandages should be dispensed with, and the trunk of the patient’s body exposed to a cool, though not chilling air. Mental tran- quillity is almost equally as essential, the slightest mental emotion increasing the ac- tion of the vascular system. Hence all ap- pearances of fear and alarm ought to be par- ticularly guarded against by the attendants, and a large dose of opium, alone or combined with calomel, should be exhibited. The sub- sequent means to be employed, those which have for their object permanently to arrest the bleeding, are now to be considered, and these must be modified according to the cause of the haemorrhage, as well as to the particular vessel on which the operation has been per- formed, and likewise to the orifice, whether the capillary or the cardiac, from which the blood may have made its escape. If the hae- morrhage has been caused by a collateral branch betwixt the aneurism and the heart,