436 ASPHYXIA. 1 Kay on Asphyxia, p. 50, 51. It was thus proved that water entered the chea itself was obliterated by the application of a ligature. This is what takes place on continued submersion, and death speedily supervenes ; but if the individual rises to the surface and struggles for existence, his death is more or less prolonged, and a small portion of the water may enter the trachea during the imperfect attempts which he makes to inspire. We once had occasion to witness, with in- tense anxiety for the safety of a friend who could not swim, and who got beyond his depth when bathing, the following pheno- mena : he first made violent and irregular struggles with his arms extended, to support his head above the water, but these being ineffectual, he sank to the bed of the river; on reaching which, conscious of his danger, he struck his feet against it with such force as to raise his head and chest considerably above the surface. He now called for help loudly, and cast his arms about him at random, as if endeavouring to grasp something which would support him, but almost immediately sank ; He soon rose a second time much exhausted ; when, upon the point of his again sinking, he was rescued from his peril, brought to shore, and soon recovered. He stated his recollec- tion of having called for help, but after that he lost all consciousness. It was at one time a prevalent opinion, that the cause of death from submersion arose in consequence of the water entering the tra- chea and filling its ramifications. Even at the present day this opinion is found occasionally to hold its popularity amongst the uneducated, and which leads to the pernicious practice of suspending by the heels, the body of the indi- vidual who has undergone submersion, for the purpose of giving exit to the water which has been supposed to have entered the windpipe. The experiments of Morgagni, Haller, Louis, Goodwyn, &c. upon animals, and their exami- nation of the bodies of persons who have been drowned, prove that, water seldom enters the trachea, and that when it does so, it is in ex- ceedingly small quantities, and during the last struggles of the individual. Louis drowned animals in coloured fluids, and ascertained that a small quantity entered the trachea. Goodwyn also repeated these experiments with a similar result. He also drowned animals in cjuicksilver, and ascer- tained that when a cat was immersed in this fluid, five drachms, an exceedingly small quan- tity when its weight is considered, entered the lungs. In order to determine whether the presence of a small quantity of water in the lungs would occasion death, Goodwyn per- formed the following experiment; he made an opening in the trachea of a cat, and through it introduced two ounces of water into the lungs; its presence wras followed by a diffi- culty of breathing and weak pulse, which ef- fects soon subsided, and the animal lived seve- ral hours afterwards without further inconve- nience. It was now strangled, and two ounces and a half of water were found in the lungs. lungs, but not in a quantity sufficient to pro- duce death. The existence of the frothy mucus which is sometimes found in the bronchia and its ramifications can be only accounted for by the animal having risen to the surface and respired air once or twice during its last struggles. It is difficult to lay down any rule by which it can be determined a priori, whether our at- tempts at restoration will be successful, be- yond the signs which characterize the exist- ence of total death. Whilst, on the one hand, a few minutes’submersion have been sufficient to baffle the most energetic and well-directed measures of the practitioner in his attempts at re-animation, cases on the other hand are on record, where recovery has crowned his efforts after the body has been fifteen, twenty, and even thirty minutes in the water. The longest period recorded by the Humane So- ciety, of recovery after submersion, is three quarters of an hour. GENERAL DIRECTIONS FOR THE TREATMENT OF THE DROWNED. When the body is taken out of the water, the mouth and nostrils should immediately be cleansed ; sometimes much frothy mucus will be found in the throat ; this should be care- fully removed with a handkerchief tied round the finger : the wet clothes should be imme- diately stripped from the body, which should be wiped dry and clean, and then, without exposing it to a cold atmosphere one moment longer than necessary, it should be wrapped in a dry blanket. In conveying the body to the nearest house, the assistant should forbid its being lifted or carried by the shoulders and legs, because in this position the head is unsupported, and its weight will hang for- wards on the chest, or fall backwards. The body should be carried on a blanket, or on a board (a door), or in a cart. A room, con- taining a good fire, should, if possible, be selected'. The resuscitative measures, which we have already spoken of under the General Treatment of Asphyxia, should now be put into operation and persevered in with a caution and energy, and for a length of time commensurate with the importance of the humane object the prac- titioner has in view. Strangulation.—Asphyxia may be induced in this way by simple pressure round the neck, sufficiently powerful to prevent the passage of air through the trachea, as by the applica- tion of a cord, a handkerchief, or by the hands ; or this pressure may be complicated with suspension of the body, as in hanging ; also with rupture of the ligaments of the cer- vical vertebrae, fracture of these vertebral, in- jury to the spinal chord, or to the nerves in the vicinity of the ligature. Death from strangulation has attracted the attention of the profession from the earliest periods. It was supposed that the com-