ARTERITIS. 383 The little tendency evinced by arteries to be affected by the morbid changes which may be going on in the tissues or organs through which they pass, has been already alluded to in the commencement of this article. It does not, however, amount to an entire exemption in their favour from attacks of this nature ; and hence we find their coats soft, and ex- tremely friable where they traverse cancerous tumours or other diseased structures. In such cases, their cohesiveness is greatly diminished, so that they break under the fingers, or they feel soft and sometimes spongy. There are even instances on record, in which erosion, propagated from a neighbouring bubo, has at- tacked the artery, giving rise to fatal haemor- rhage. Mr. Hodgson mentions a case of fatal haematemesis, where the coronary artery of the stomach had been eroded from an ulcer of the mucous membrane of that viscus ; and the same thing has been observed to occur in the lungs. Aortitis.—In connexion with the preceding observations, for most of which I am indebted to Mr. Porter of Dublin, who has so successfully cultivated this department of pathology, it will be proper here to refer to the recent re- searches of M. Bizot of Geneva, on this inte- resting subject. These researches, conceived on an extensive scale, have been conducted with remarkable ability and zeal, and are re- corded in the first volume of the Memoires de la Societe Medicale d’Observation. M. Bizot had observed but one form of alteration re- sulting from an acute attack of the internal lining of arteries. It showed itself upon the surface of this membrane in the form of an albuminous exudation, varying in thickness, as well as in consistence, and resembling jelly, being smooth, transparent, limpid, or rose- coloured. In some instances, the transpa- rency of the adventitious membrane was such as to allow the pale colour of the artery to be distinguished beneath it. If a portion of the lining membrane be raised and torn off in the direction of the new deposit, the latter, be- hind which it is placed, and from which it may be separated, tears off with it. These exuda- tions were in general confined to one spot, but they were also observed in scattered groups or patches of various sizes, and in some cases the transparent matter was so abundant as so fill up completely the calibre of the vessel. It is very frequently found at the orifice of the arteries arising from the arch of the aorta, of the cceliae, mesenteric, and renal arteries, and on the posterior sur- tace of the aorta, obliterating partially or com- pletely the orifices of the intercostals. Some- times the albuminous spots appear puckered round their edges, which made Mr. Hodgson liken them to atrophied hernial sacs. When this matter exists in the form of isolated patches, it probably does not give rise to any general symptoms ; but the case is just the reverse, when the morbid secretion is thrown out extensively on the internal surface of the large arteries. M. Bizot thinks that acute G aortitis occurs in this way, and cites three ex- amples observed by himself; the disease, in each case, terminating fatally. The symptoms observed were oedema accompanied by fever, but without any disturbance in the functions of the heart, or of the other organs essential to life ; and these symptoms he considers as indicating the extensive development of false membrane on the internal surface of the aorta. These cases are recorded in M. Bizot’s Memoire ; and we insert them, in order that by directing attention to them, his views may be confirmed or modified by other investi- gators. “ A young physician, aged 27, with light blue eyes, brown hair, fair delicate skin, pale complexion, good constitution, residing in Paris since 1829, having never been attacked with any serious disease, had since that period complained frequently of loss of appetite, and occasional diarrhoea, but without emaciation or loss of strength. He was in the enjoyment of good health, when, in September 1833, he perceived, for the first time, that his legs were swelled. Rest in the horizontal posture produced no effect in lessening the oedema; but his appetite and strength remained unim- paired ; his respiration was not hurried, even on ascending the stairs ; there was no dis- turbance of the heart, wrhich beat regularly, and with its usual force. He made light of these symptoms, employed no remedies, and pursued his occupations as before. The in- appetency and diarrhoea had lasted eight days, when, on the 24th of October, after a long walk, he complained of great debility, with pain in the right iliac fossa, and a feeling of swelling in the abdomen. These symptoms were but the prelude to a severe rigor. He passed a restless night, and his strength, next day, was prostrated. The oedema, which till then had been confined to the lower extremi- ties, had extended to the body, face, and arms. The pulse 120 to 130. In the two following days, the oedema diminished per- ceptibly ; the stools had become solid, and with them was voided a fragment of a taenia ; pulse 100, with exacerbation of the fever in the evening, but without rigor. Palpitation was complained of on the 26th, but never afterwards. The thirst was constant, and there wras expectoration with a cough, which, however, had existed previously to the attack. During the two first days he was bled three times, to the extent of 16 ounces each time ; Seltzer water, and other diluents, with ice, were also employed.” “ 28. Obliged to lie raised almost to the sit- ting posture, mind clear, no headache, voice strong, hearing unimpaired, no tinnitus, eyes natural, face pale and slightly cedematous, but without any expression of stupor. The body, as well as the upper and lower extremities, are infiltrated ; the abdomen is meteorized ; the skin is fair, presenting neither petechiae nor sudamina, but covered with sweat. He has sufficient strength to raise the glass to his mouth, but can neither sit up nor change his