ABORTION. IS motions of the foetus, which finally cease ; sink- ing of the hypogastric region, or sense ol coldness under the pubis; uterine pains, more or less acute and frequent; progressive dilata- tion of the uterine orifice, and periodical pains as in natural parturition ; more or less haemor- rhage, prominence of the membranes; in fine, the expulsion of the fluid of the amnios, next of the foetus, and lastly, after a longer or shorter period, of the placenta and membranes. The haemorrhage seldom ceases in general before the expulsion of the placenta and mem- branes. As soon as the membranes rupture, the progress of pregnancy is arrested, and abortion is inevitable. Some suppose that the amniotic fluid may be discharged many weeks or even months previous to parturition, and that during labour, the membranes may present as usual, rupture, and again discharge their fluid. But such cases are examples of dis- ease in which a greater or less quantity of fluid is secreted and accumulated between the amnios and the chorion, and finally escapes through the vagina, the amnios remaining un- broken until the time of parturition. Several pints of fluid have been collected and dis- charged from the uterus in such cases, while the amnios remained unbroken. It is almost universally admitted that when the amnios is ruptured, abortion, premature labour, or par- turition at the full time are inevitable. I have known, on the other hand, watery discharges from the uterus in different quantities from the third to the end of the ninth month of pregnancy. Pathology of Abortion.—When abortion fol- lows the 'powerful occasional causes, it is sometimes preceded by pains and sense of weight in the loins, and sometimes in the vagina, and of general indisposition, accompa- nied by the symptoms already enumerated. There is, at first, a slight serous or watery discharge from the vagina, which is speedily succeeded by a greater or less effusion of blood, or by copious haemorrhage. In other cases there will be a profuse haemorrhage from the commencement of the attack, until the foetus and its appendages are expelled. This symptom generally happens in those who have suffered from previous abortions, or are ple- thoric or delicate. The pains may be slight or severe, and extend from the umbilicus to the uterus and vagina; parturient action super- venes, and the foetus is expelled. The quantity of blood discharged varies considerably: sometimes there is very little, at other times a jet, current, or several coagula, according as the separation of the ovum is more or less extensive, or as it may be more or less remote from the os uteri. In fine, the symptoms of abortion resemble those of parturition in proportion as preg- nancy is advanced. This is also the fact as regards the lochial evacuation and the secre- tion of milk. In the early months of pregnancy, the em- bryo is often expelled, while the placenta with the membranes are retained for days or weeks 15 afterwards. As long as the secundines conti- nue in the uterus, there will be more or less haemorrhage, and in some cases, this will be periodical. In all cases of abortion during the first three months, we should not take it for granted, on the statement of the patient or nurse, that the placenta has been expelled, as well as the conception, unless we have ocular demonstration of the fact. Women often mistake clots of blood for the placenta, and frequently remove them before the arrival of the surgeon. I have known cases in which the placenta was retained for three, five, and six weeks after the expulsion of the embryo ; haemorrhage was considerable, the nurse posi- tively asserting that the after-birth had passed though it was still in the uterus. It sometimes happens that the ovum is ex- pelled entire, especially about the end of the second month. At a later period its volume does not allow it to be so completely detached, more especially when the pregnancy is more advanced. The entire ovum has been ex- pelled at the fourth, fifth, and sixth months, (Diembroeck, Velpeau, Eryaud, Stoltz, Sie- bold, Marson, &c.) though' it often happens that the placenta remains in the uterus. In the first months, the ovum may escape, covered with the amnios only, the caduea, chorion, and placenta remaining in the uterus. ( Velpeau, Ricord, Guillon, Lemercier, &c.) About the middle period of utero-gestation, the foetus may be expelled enveloped in its membranes, with or without the placenta. Such cases are by no means of rare occurrence. It also happens in the early months of preg- nancy, that the membranes may rupture, and the amniotic fluid escape ; the embryo, placenta, and membranes become decomposed, and are evacuated as a brownish fetid sanies. At other times, the placenta continues attached to the uterus, increases in size, and gradually assumes a fleshy appearance, in which we occa- sionally find hydatids. The foetus may be ex- pelled, or remain in the liquor amnii, which may macerate it, and render it almost gelatin- ous. The degenerescence of the placenta is termed a mole. When pregnancy is some- what advanced, the foetus may be born alive ; but if younger than the sixth month, is not viable, as it oidy survives for a few minutes or hours in a great majority of cases. In some instances, the foetus remains in the uterus until the end of pregnancy, when it is expelled in a state of ramollmement and mace- ration, without any signs of putrefaction, more especially in those cases where the membranes being unbroken, the access of the air is ex- cluded. In some abortions, the foetus is con- verted into a substance resembling adipocire, or it acquires the hardness of stone, and may remain in the uterus till the death of the mother. In others, after an indefinite lapse of time, the uterus inflames and suppurates, an abscess forms, and opens on the anterior wall of the abdomen, or into the intestines or vagina, giving issue to the pus and sanies formed by the decomposition of the flesh