4 62 BANDAGE. Fig. 142. brought up to the back part of the belt round the calf to meet a buckle which secures it. The foot is thus maintained in the extended position, at the same time that the muscles of the calf are compressed, and all motion tend- ing to separate the two portions of the tendon checked. A high-heeled shoe may be worn over the slipper, and the patient may sit up with the foot resting on a low stool. In rupture of the ligament of the patella, or tendinous attachment of the triceps to the olecranon, the same means are requisite, as in the treatment of fractures of the patella and olecranon. Fig. 143 [is the uniting bandage for transverse fractures of the patella, devised by Mr. Amesbury. The leg is first extended upon a long straight padded splint (a«), reaching from the middle of the thigh to the heel. Two portions of leather (b b), softly padded on the inner surface, and long enough to pass half way round the limb, are buckled firmly above and below the patella, by straps passing under the splint. Two short straps attached to the lower margin of the upper belt arc brought down on either side of the patella, and buckled to the opposite margin of the lower belt, tightly enough to approximate the opposite edges of the pads, and at the same time the two portions of the patella. A long strap (c) is then carried down the out- side of the leg, from the upper pad, under the sole of the foot, and up again on the inside, to meet a buckle on the lower border of the same pad. A handkerchief, or strip of roller, is finally tied round the ankle, to keep the long strap and splint in place. The bandage recommended by Sir A. Cooper for these cases is simply a broad strap buckled round the thigh, just above the knee, from which a long strap descends, passes under the sole of the foot, and is brought up to a buckle on the opposite side of the thigh belt. The limb must be enveloped in a spiral ban- dage, and fixed in the extended position by means of the long straight splint, as seen (Fig. 143). Fig. 143. Mr. Amesbury’s bandage for fracture of the olecranon, differs from that applied to the lower extremity (Fig. 143), merely by the omission of the long strap; the application and action of the two bandages correspond in all other particulars, and the arm is extended by a straight splint along its inner surface. The term divisive bandage is applied to any bandage employed to counteract the adhesion or contraction of parts adjoining each other, during the cicatrization of burns, or of wounds attended with much loss of substance. The divisif du cou, mentioned above, is an example of this kind of bandage : complete extension or separation of the parts undergoing the process of cicatrization is the indication to be fulfilled by divisive bandages ; and the situations in which they are usually had recourse to, are the front of the neck, the bends of joints, and the commissures of the fingers and toes. Compressing bandages.—Compressing band- ages are useful in a great variety of surgical maladies. They are applied with compresses to suppress haemorrhage from wounded blood- vessels, to expel pus and certain secretions from sinuses and cavities w'here they might accumulate injuriously, to forward the cure of erectile and other tumours, &c. (for the utility