ADHESION. name expresses their appearance tolerably well, being small, red, shining, and globular prominences, more or less elevated, and highly vascularized. As these corpuscules bring about the same event, namely, adhesion, are they of the same nature as the vessels or cells from which the coagulating lymph is secreted, which becomes the bond of union in wounds that adhere by first intention ? Is their ac- tion in producing the means of union the same ? Most probably. Hunter considered suppuration to result from inflammation, car- ried beyond adhesive limits ; but suppuration ceases by restoring the parts within those limits, placing them in the same condition, in fact, as that in which the surfaces, or rather the granulations secrete the same plastic lymph. In order to produce suppuration ar- tificially, it is only necessary to prevent ad- hesion. (See Reunion.) When there is no cause to perpetuate the production of pus, the granulations become covered with a layer of organizable lymph. It may be here re- marked, that as blood coagulates upon in- flamed surfaces, so does pus, according to the observations of Home, upon the surface of granulations. It would appear, therefore, that whatever adhesive power is found, either in pus or in blood, depends upon its vitality, for healthy pus is not dead matter in the midst of our tissues, but a living secretion. Home’s observations on these granulations are exceedingly curious, and will be repro- duced under the article Granulation. When granulating surfaces are apposed, they become covered with a very thin pel- licle, which prevents any further secretion of pus. As regards the production of the vessels by which the granulations are so richly sup- plied, the same difference of opinion prevails, some believing that they are formed spon- taneously in the plastic lymph ; others, that they are merely prolongations from the pri- mitive vessels. Hunter believed that they might be produced in both ways. But, on this point, we might invoke Hunter’s own authority against himself, in support of the opinion that these vessels are of secondary formation. Hunter observed, that the vessels oi granulations took a direction from their base to the circumference in parallel lines ; now the very same arrangement is observable in the vessels of false membranes, the spon- taneous formation of which is not disputed. The same difference of opinion is here re- produced as to the inosculation of the new with the old vessels ; and, although it is not possible to deny the communication of these vessels, still it is by no means art easy matter to prove the direct inosculation. We can- not determine whether the extremities of the old vessels merely throw out plastic lymph only, or whether the excitement, which no one doubts must exist in them, is still kept up to form, or to inosculate with, the new vessels ; all we know', positively, is the fact that they do communicate, and are continuous with each other. The preceding observations establish that <JO organizable lymph is the sole medium of adhe- sion, that it is thrown out in consequence of a particular mode of excitement, to w'hich Hun- ter gave the name of adhesive inflammation ; and that this inflammation is necessary to mo- dify the parts in order to produce its effusion. Adhesions in different situations:—In a prac- tical point of view adhesions may be arranged under two general heads, viz. morbid and reparative. Another division may also be made in which they are classed in reference to the structures or situations in which they occur. This division embraces adhesions, not only of the serous or mucous surfaces gene- rally, as of the pleurae, peritoneum, &c., but of the vessels, skin, mucous passages, &c. wherever they may be formed. We shall study them in the order of their frequency. Adhesions of serous membranes :—The cellu- lar tissue itself may be considered as consti- tuted of a multitude of serous cells, but as we have spoken so much upon it, in developing the general principles of adhesion, we shall pass at once to the consideration of adhesions as they occur in the large serous cavities., The first point we have to remark, as re- gards serous membranes, is the prodigality with which they furnish the lymph, which is afterwards converted into membraniform adhe- sions. The abundance with which the lymph is thrown out in the irritation of serous mem- branes, and the apparent absence of vascu- larity, had, doubtless, suggested the idea that the productions were inorganic ; but this.con- dition is merely temporary, and, besides the apparent absence of vessels, is no argument against the fact of their being organized. This readiness to throw out lymph is, in many instances, attended with effects that are emi- nently preservative. A collection of matter takes place under the pleura costalis; the con- tiguous pulmonic pleura adheres to it; the ulcerative process attacks the adhesion, and the pus is coughed up through the bronchi; or a fatal extravasation is threatened from some of the organs of the abdominal cavity, the adhesive matter is thrown out, the suffer- ing organ becomes united to the nearest turn of intestine, and the matter, which was on the point of making irruption into the abdominal cavity, is safely carried out of the body, through the passage that has been provided for it by the intestinal canal. It becomes also, as in the case of an abscess in the cellu- lar tissue, the means of circumscribing the ef- fects of an injury. “ If we make a wound,” says Hunter, “ in the cavity of the belly and do not allow it to heal by first intention, still we find that no inflammation will take place, or extend further, than the attachment of those parts to the cut edges, except what is owing to continued sympathy. If this was not the case, every part of the same cavity must inflame if this contact be destroyed the whole cavity must inflame, because every part is under the same predicament with regard to exposure. The same thing would take place in the common cellular membrane, if those cells were not (in a natural state) in