ANKLE. 301 falling’ from his horse, met with a similar acci- dent. M. Roux, in conjunction with two other surgeons, endeavoured in vain for a long time to replace the bone ; attempts of every sort were made to reduce this dislocation ; at last, and without knowing how or why, the bone was reduced ; this case is valuable, in as much as it shows the difficulty similar acci- dents may present. The last opportunity M. Roux had of seeing this accident, occurred in a man who fell from a ladder; there was a compound fracture of the malleole, and a dislo- cation of the small head of the astragalus upon the cuboid bone. There was too much swell- ing and inflammation to make a trial at reduc- tion. The foot suppurated ; M. Roux enter- tained hopes that he might saw off the dis- located part of the astragalus ; the suppura- tion however continued, amputation of the leg became indispensable, and the patient died. These interesting observations naturally suggest a few questions ; for instance, it may be asked, why was the head of the astragalus thrown outwards upon the cuboid bone in all these cases ? Anatomy will assist, I think, in explaining this circumstance. If the os ealcis be made to rotate upwards and inwards, the small head of the astragalus becomes pro- minent above the scaphoid bone, and is di- rected outwards towards the cuboid bone ; this fact is so evident on the fresh foot, (and may easily be verified upon the living sub- ject), that one is not surprised that such dis- placement should occur. The ligaments unit- ing the astragalus to the navicular bone are stronger on the inner than upon the outer side. The astragalus must also have greater difficulty in passing over the scaphoid bone on account of its being a little above the cuboid ; there is likewise a slight depression between these two bones where the astragalus perhaps escapes. The tendons of the tibialis anticus, extensor pollicis pedis, extensor digitorum, and peroneus tertius muscles, their sheaths, and the annular ligament, must tend to prevent the bone from escaping in that direction ; on the cuboid side there are no such impedi- ments. Another question also arises, and which regards the position of the astragalus with the calcis, or whether the small head of the astragalus can be thrown so far out of its situation, without changing its natural position with that bone. Is the interosseous ligament torn or merely stretched ? I have explained these views to M. Roux who entirely agrees with them. In Chassaignac and Richelot’s translation of Sir A. Cooper’s surgical works, are recorded a number of interesting facts concerning simple and compound dislocations of the astragalus. Dr. Valentine Mott of New York has favoured me with two cases of complete dislocation of this bone which are worthy of notice. “ A man, aged thirty-two, fell from a con- siderable height upon his feet, and dislocated one ankle compoundly. The astragalus was thrown forwards upon the tarsus, and so en- tirely detached from all its proper connex- ions, that it was removed. This man re- covered without any of the severe symptoms which usually attend an ordinary compound dislocation of this joint. He walked upon the foot afterwards, having considerable motion preserved in the joint.” “ Another man, aged twenty-five, received a similar accident, but the astragalus was not so completely detached from its ligaments. He would not permit it to be removed. He re- covered much more lingeringly from the in- jury, and not without severe symptoms. The bone exfoliated, and he was ultimately able to walk upon this foot.” We shall now examine another contested point in the history of dislocations of the ankle. The existence of a luxation of the foot forwards, or, as we call it, of the leg or ankle backwards, has been denied by many authors. Its occurrence is extremely rare ; Boyer, Dupuytren, Sir A. Cooper, Mr. B. Cooper, Dr. Mott, and M. Roux, admit its pos- sibility, but have never met with it in their practice. Dr. Adams, who has written “ the Abnormal Condition of the Ankle,” in Dr. Todd’s Cyclopaedia of Anatomy, relates a case of partial luxation of the tibia backwards, which was communicated to him by that prac- tical surgeon, Dr. Colles of Dublin. “ In this case the tibia seemed thrown partially back- wards from the articular pulley of the astraga- lus, the fibula was unbroken, and was carried backwards with the tibia ; the foot, measured from the instep upon its dorsum, was longer than that of the opposite side ; the heel was shorter and less pointed; the space in front of the tendo Achillis, near the os calcis was par- tially filled up ; and a hard swelling occupied the lower and back part of the tibia, which was evidently formed by a quantity of callus which had cemented together the fragments of a fracture of the lowest part of the tibia. The leg was shorter than the opposite limb,” p. 162. The anatomy of the posterior region of the ankle somewhat explains why complete and sudden dislocation of the leg backwards so seldom occurs. On the contrary, partial luxa- tion of the tibia backwards, produced gra- dually, by various causes, is more common than is perhaps generally supposed. The thickness of the malleoles should also be examined by the surgeon, for in such cases where partial necrosis, fistulous cavities, tuber- culous deposits, &c. affect them, he may be enabled to remove a part of this bone, where it will be highly dangerous to penetrate the synovial membrane of the joint ; about half of the thickness of these projecting bones may be removed by means of M. Martin’s inge- nious circular saw, which scoops out a con- cave hollow in such bones with great fa- cility. I assisted my friend, M. Velpeau, in this operation where the diseased portion of the malleole was neatly removed. M. Vel- peau has twice performed this operation. In one case the patient was cured: the other terminated fatally. On account of the great