ANEURISM. 254 Compression is also successful in curing aneurisms of the brachial artery, for which the humerus offers a ready point of opposi- tion ; and when it does not cure, it retards their progress, or renders them stationary. Winter cured the queen of Bavaria of an aneurism of the brachial artery, by compres- sion, and Lisfranc relates the case of a person who has had four aneurismal tumours in the course of this vessel, the progress of which has been staid for more than a year, by means of a laced sleeve. In placing ligatures on the arteries of the fore-arm, and arm, the supply of blood to the parts from which any of the main branches is cut off, is sufficiently assured by the great number of minor branches that pass oft from them in their course. Thus, when the bra- chial artery is tied at the bend of the arm, the circulation is carried on between it and the arteries of the fore-arm, by the anasto- mosing circles, that are distributed above and below the condyles. As regards the nourish- ment of the inferior part of the limb, there- fore, no apprehension need be entertained ; but, on the contrary, this communication may be so free, as still to allow the blood to arrive in the wounded vessel, or aneurismal tumour, and thus render it necessary to place another ligature, or to have recourse to compression. " When the brachial artery is tied higher up, the circulation is carried on in the same man- ner, by the circumflex, the profundus superior, the muscular branches, and by the great ana- stomotic, when it has been spared ; and it is in order to save this collateral circulation, to as great an extent as the disease will allow, as well as to prevent the tumour from being sup- plied with blood through these channels, that it is recommended, in operating for these aneurisms, to apply the ligature as near the tumour as circumstances will admit of. AXILLARY ARTERY. As the frequency of aneurism is relative to the size of the arterial trunk, or its exposed situation, its occurrence in the axilla idiopa- thically, or from wounds, is not unfrequent. The axillary artery runs in an oblique course, from the lower edge of the clavicle, or from that of the first rib, to the point where it emerges from the hollow of the axilla. At. its commencement it lies deep under the cla- vicle, covered by thick muscles ; at its termi- nation, its pulsations can be easily felt within the border of the axilla, where it is covered by the skin, the axillary vein, the median nerve, and its two roots, which mask, or rather envelope it. Throughout this course, it is ac- cessible to the ligature, at three dift'erent points. In the first, or uppermost of these, which extends from the clavicle to tlie edge of the pectoralis minor, the artery is bounded, on its inside, by the walls of the thorax, and serratus major, on its outside by the coracoid process. A triangular space is thus formed which is filled with the strong cellular tissue that envelopes the vessels and nerves, and co- vered by the pectoralis major, and deltoid. The relative situation of the vessels and nerves in this space is as follows : the axillary vein, a vessel of considerable size, and the first root of the median nerve, partly conceal the artery, the vein lying to the thoracic, the nerve to its scapular side ; the artery lies be- tween, and, at the same time, behind them. Before passing under the pectoralis minor, the artery gives off its acromial and external tho- racic branches, and the axillary vein receives the cephalic vein with several other branches which pass in front of the artery, and with these also, several small nerves from the great plexus are mingled. The artery emerging from be- neath the pectoralis minor, and continuing its course outwards, enters another space, which is bounded by the lower border of the pecto- ralis minor, posteriorly by the subscapularis muscle, and interiorly by the border of the axilla ; in this course the vein gradually gets from the front to the inside of the artery, and the nerves which had surrounded it almost completely, begin to separate from it; the two roots of the median, which had been in front of it, pass, one to its radial, the other to its ulnar side ; the external cutaneous nerve lying on its radial side, the radial and circumflex receding from it behind ; branches of veins here empty themselves into the great venous trunk, and the whole is enveloped in the cel- lulo-fibrous tissue already alluded to, while numerous glands and fat fill up the space to- wards the thorax. On passing from the edge of the subscapularis, the artery runs parallel to the edge of the coraco-brachialis, till it as- sumes the name of brachial. Fig. 7.0. Fig. 70. No. 1 represents the ligature of the subcla- vian artery between the scaleni muscles. The exter- nal jugular vein is retracted with the external border of the wound. The anterior scalenus lies to the inside, and the nerves of the brachial plexus to the outside of the artery, a, the subclavian artery; b, a transverse cervical vein raised with the omo-hyoideus on a blunt