861 DELIVERANCE. DAY-BLINDNESS.—See Hemeralopia and Nyctalopia. DECOCTIONS, from decoquere, to boil, are products obtained by boiling certain medi- cinal substances, whereby the parts soluble at the boiling temperature may be obtained. They are employed both internally and exter- nally. DILITESCENCE. The rapid subsidence of the redness, heat, and swelling, in external inflammation. DELIVERANCE.—Syn. Delivrance, Fr. This term, though not in common use in this country, is much employed by continental writers, and is a convenient mode of express- ing the expulsion or extraction of the placenta and membranes, with any clots of blood which may remain in the uterus after the birth of the child. It may be divided into simple, natural, or spontaneous deliverance, and com- plicated, unnatural, or artificial. Simple deliverance is to be considered as a purely natural function, being accomplished by the unassisted powers of nature, within a short time after the birth of the child, and without danger to the mother. The process, like that of parturition, may be divided into certain stages : in the first the placenta is separated from the inner surface of the uterus by the contractions of that organ ; in the second it is propelled into the cavity of the vagina ; and in the third its expulsion is completed with the assistance of the abdominal and perineal muscles. It has long been an interesting problem to decide in what manner powerful and long- continued contractions of the uterus could persist for hours, without causing separation of the placenta, especially as these organs, however connected, are but slightly adherent in the healthy state. As it is also evident, from the rapidity with which the child is destroyed by any thing which obstructs the placenta cir- culation, that a placento-pulmonary function is carried on in the medium of communication between the child and mother.it is difficult to explain how the uterus can contract on the placenta during labour without materially im- peding this important process. Mr. Hugh Carmichael, of Dublin, has offered a very in- genious explanation of this intricate subject. After careful examination of subjects, plates, preparations, the situation of the placental souffle, and the condition of the placenta and membranes after expulsion, he states, that the natural situation of the placenta is low down on the posterior surface of the uterus. He also believes that it is formed and attached, at or somewhere near, the fundus uteri, and that it remains throughout pregnancy on the iden- tical spot to which it was first attached, be- cause any change of situation would necessa- rily disturb the circulation through it. Then as this organ is, at the close of gestation, found low down on the posterior surface of the uterus, he concludes that the uterine expan- sion does not take place by an enlargement in all directions; but that the portion of the fundus where the placenta was first attached, and the parts posterior to it, undergo little or no change of volume during gestation. If this be so, it is evident that the chief expan- sion must be that of the anterior wall, each superior portion of which arrives at and occu- pies the fundus, and then turns over to form a portion of the posterior parietes until the expansion is completed. The order of con- traction during labour Mr. Carmichael sup- poses to be similar to that of expansion during gestation ; the contractions “ going on chiefly in the anterior part, necessarily must first draw down the fundus, which now appears on the anterior wall, and these contractions continu- ing and increasing in energy as they proceed, each portion of it which passes over the fun- dus during the expansive process, to the pos- terior portion, now repasses under the influ- ence of these contractions, regaining its ori- ginal position, thus diminishing its cavity, and ultimately delivering its contents1.” Thus the posterior part of the uterus, where the placenta is situated, may remain undisturbed during the expansion and contractions of this organ ; while it is supposed that if the pla- centa be situated above its usual position, it then comes within the range of contraction, is more or less separated, and haemorrhage necessarily ensues. There is no doubt that this theory, so plau- sibly supported by reasoning, and some facts, would, if true, clear up all difficulties on the subject. But, unfortunately, the foundations on which it is based are assumptions, the cor- rectness of which has not been established by more extended observation. In the first place, Mr. Carmichael states, that, in ninety-seven cases out of a hundred, the placenta was situ- ated low down on the posterior surface of the womb. Now that it is by no means uniformly attached even to the posterior surface appears from the observations of Velpeau, who, in his Embryology, gives the result of thirty-four examinations of women who died during preg- nancy, or soon after delivery. In twenty of these cases it was above the orifice of the Fal- lopian tube, in three anteriorly, two poste- riorly, six at the fundus, and three toward the cervix. Again, by examination of the secun- dines, and by stethoscopic phenomena, it is clearly demonstrated that it may be affixed to other parts of the uterus, and nothing unnatu- ral occur even during a protracted labour. With regard to the situation of the pla- centa, as determinable by examination of the secundines, we cannot do better than quote the observations of Dr. Doherty from the seventeenth volume of the Dublin Journal of Medical Science :—“ The evidence afforded by the secundines is founded on the fact of the placenta, in the majority of instances, 1 Dublin Journal of Medical fcicncc, vol. xiv. p. 471.