485 BLOOD-LETTING. Little difficulty occurs in distinguishing those states of the system which require ge- neral bleeding when diseases have made con- siderable progress, and when their symptoms and character have become distinctly deve- loped. It is before they arrive at this period, and that too when medical treatment is most available, that their true nature is apt to escape detection, and there are many states of disease where substantial advantage is to be derived from venesection, and where, at the same time, it could not be affirmed, from the presence of any particular symptom, that inflammation did actually exist. “ Inflammation in some tex- tures of the body,” observes an intelligent writer, “ is so obscure in the beginning, so insidious in its progress, and so rapid in its termination, that in all cases in which the sur- geon hesitates respecting the necessity of bleeding, it is a wise plan not to deprive the patient of the benefit of the doubt, but imme- diately to proceed to venesection.” It is also certain that there is a period of disease, when bleeding is not only unneces- sary but improper ; and there is one moment when venesection may be had recourse to with more advantage than at any other. To detect this precise period must, therefore, be of great practical importance. In those who have been wounded, or who have met with some severe accident, or on whom an operation has been performed,—in all such cases the action of the heart and arteries, which is at first diminished by the general shock, should be allowed to re- cover, or reaction should take place before re- sorting to blood-letting,—and this rule applies generally to all inflammatory diseases. The chill, for instance, which a person receives from sudden exposure to a change of tempera- ture, and which lays the foundation of an in- flammation in some of the internal viscera, produces a collapse of the whole frame, which is not followed until after a certain period, by those inflammatory symptoms which require blood-letting. The incompressible pulse.—The peculiar feel- ing in the radial pulse to which I have alluded, and which points out, almost universally, the propriety of general blood-letting, is suffi- ciently well indicated, by the term “ incom- pressibility.” An incompressible state of the pulse may, I venture to say, be considered as pathognomonic of inflammation,in whatever or- gan or texture that inflammation exist. I have already remarked, that each of the different textures of an organ when inflamed, is attended with some peculiarity of the pulse. Inflamma- tion of the dura mater,—of the cerebral pulp, —of the pleura,—of the mucous membrane of the bronchi,—of the pericardium,—of the mus- cular parietes of the heart,—of the serous mem- brance which lines its cavities,—of the perito- neal and of the mucous coats of the intestinal canal,—are each accompanied by peculiarities of pulse ; but in all we will be able to detect incompressibility. For whether the pulse be full or small, hard or soft, frequent or slow, if with the point of one finger the artery be pressed at the wrist, we shall perceive with another finger applied to the artery beyond the first finger, that unless a very considerable degree of pres- sure be employed, the pulsation of the radial artery will not be entirely destroyed, but the sensation, as if of a fine thread, or hair, will remain. Attention to this quality of the radial pulse I may confidently assert, has scarcely ever failed to guide me, in the use of phlebotomy, even in otherwise doubtful circumstances, and a conviction of the accuracy of the observation has led me to employ bleeding in many cases, where I could not otherwise have ventured to have recourse to this remedy, from the absence of the ordinary indications of inflammatory ac- tion. It was this state of pulse which first pointed out to me the propriety of employing vene- section in erysipelas, in cases of sloughing ulcers, in exanthematous fevers, in cases of poisoned wounds, in specific diseases, and in certain stages of several other affections to be afterwards considered, and where an opposite system of treatment is frequently, nay usually, followed. In most of the diseases now alluded to, by a superficial examination of the pulse, an impression is generally received that there is a feeble state of the circulation, and hence, in place of a depletive or antiphlogistic mode of treatment, wine, bark, and stimulating reme- dies, have been employed. Varieties of the Pulse.—Though in no case have I observed an incompressible state of the pulse, without finding venesection to be an expedient measure, yet there are other qualities perceptible in the radial pulse which also in- dicate the propriety of blood-letting. A hard pulse, a firm pulse, a full pulse, a wiry pulse, an oppressed pulse, all, either taken singly or combined with other symptoms, more particularly local pain, hot skin, and white tongue, point out the propriety of em- ploying general blood-letting. No acquirement demands more attention and experience than that which enables us to distinguish the various peculiarities of the pulse, both in health and disease. This knowledge en- tirely depends on the exercise and acuteness in the sense of touch. Like that of sight and hear- ing, the sense of touch differs exceedingly in its acuteness in different persons, but in all it is capable of great improvement. We cannot expect to be at first able to distinguish the nicer shades of difference in pulses which are palpable to an experienced finger, any more than we could expect at once to be able to perceive the slighter varieties in the shades of colours so easily discernible by a skilful painter. All the senses require tuition. We ought to practise, and feel a number of different pulses, both of people in health, and of those afflicted with disease, one after another, and by first observing strong contrasts, we shall ulti- mately become familiar with their lesser dif- ercnces, all of which essentially assist in