244 FRACTURE. produced by the difference of their causes, it is evident that long, and flat, and cubical bones, must be differently affected by any one kind of violence ; and the same may be said also of cancellated or spongy bone, and that which is more dense or brittle. The cylindrical, and especially the long bones, are most prone to yield towards their middle points, and more or less transversely, or rather with some slight obliquity and irregularities; flat bones are mostly affected in the way of indentations and fissures, linear or starry ; and the smaller and cubical bones are chiefly subject to kinds of crushing violence. Cancellated bone has its fibres mainly perpendicular to the planes of support or pressure, or in the line of muscular and ligamentous extension ; and the course of fracture necessarily inclines to the direction of the fibres, but reticular bone is also liable to a kind of indentation, and to be deeply penetrated, as by sharp fragments of bone, in what are called impacted fractures. In the next place, we find that fractures differ with respect to the displacement of the parts of the broken bones. The dis- placements vary greatly in degree, and, as we have already said, they must depend much on the degree and nature of the vio- lence applied ; and, again, on the form and strength of the hones concerned, as well as the influence of muscles and of gravitation. The displacements of fragments of flat bones are sometimes considerable, in the form of indentations or of overlapping ; but setting aside the injuries which involve such vital organs as the brain or the spinal marrow, the most important displacements, as well as the most frequent, are those affecting the long bones. Fractures differ with respect to the displace- ment of the fragments of the broken bone. These displacements are longitudinal, lateral, rotatory, and angular. The first kind is of great and common interest to surgeons. It is often caused by the force producing the fracture not being spent in the breaking of the bone, but driving the fragments past one another, so that they ride. A more common cause is the action of the muscles on the lower frag- ment, or on the limb which articulates with it. This cause is constantly in operation after the accident, and tends, continually, to reproduce the deformity, after it has been re- moved by the hand of the surgeon. Indeed, it is usually asserted, that, besides the effect of the violence producing the accident, this is the only cause of shortening : but this is not strictly correct, and it is of importance to be aware of the error. In the course of the reparation of fracture, gravitation, or the pres- sure of the patient’s body, may induce over- lapping, and although the lower fragment be maintained, mechanically, in precisely the same position as the corresponding part of the opposite limb, yet an accurate admea- surement may detect a difference of length between the limbs. In a fracture of the neck of the femur treated with Hagedorn’s splint, if the body of the patient in bed be drawn to the side of the injury, so as to lower the crest of the ilium on that side, the distance between the anterior superior spinous process of the ilium, and the point of the external malle- olus on the injured, as compared with the sound side, will be diminished. The shorten- ing of the limb, in this case, is owing to the descent of the ilium with the upper fragment; although it is obvious that the same shorten- ing might be owing to the contraction of the psoas and iliacus internus muscles. “ It is principally,” says Boyer, “ to the muscles which are attached to the lower fragment, or to the limb with which this fragment articulates, that the displacement is to be attributed. Suppose the humerus to be frac- tured between its superior extremity and the point where the insertion of the pectoralis major takes place, this muscle, aided by the latissimus dorsi and teres major, draws the lower fragment inwards, and displaces it by drawing it to the inside of the upper frag- ment, which remains undisturbed, on account of its shortness ; and further, because nothing provokes the action of the muscles which are attached to it. In the fracture of the neck of the femur, the upper fragment, inclosed in the ilio-femoral articulation, gives attachment to no muscle; all those attached to the lower fragment draw it upwards and backwards, and the displacement in this direction is inevitable. In all fractures in which the inferior fragment is carried along in all the movements that the limb with which it articulates executes, the muscles which are attached to the bones of which that limb is composed, become a pow- erful cause of displacement : it is in this man- ner that in the fracture of the femur, the biceps, semi-tendinosus, and semi-membrano- sus muscles, draw the leg, and with it the inferior fragment, upwards, inwards, and back- wards, and make it pass up on the inner, and somewhat posterior side of the upper frag- ment, the extremity of which then projects anteriorly and externally. In fracture of the leg, the gastrocnemius, soleus, and peronei, draw the inferior fragments of the tibia and fibula, and make them glide along the external and posterior side of the upper fragments; for here, as everywhere else, the strongest muscles, in producing the displacement, draw towards themselves the fragment upon which they act ; and as the posterior muscles of the leg prevail, in number and force, over the an- terior, and as those placed externally are not counterbalanced by any muscle, the displace- ment must needs be backwards and outwards. We might then, supposing a fracture at any point of the length of a bone, determine a priori, from an anatomical knowledge of the muscles, in what direction the displacement must occur; supposing, further, that we op- pose no resistance to the muscular action, and that the displacement depends solely upon this cause ' Boyer, Maladies C'hirurgicalcs, tom. iii. p. lfi. These opinions serve very well for individual illustra-