364- FRACTURE. structed, chiefly for the sake of flexing the limb, often appears to be wanting in a steady support to the fracture; its capabilities of effecting extension also are extremely limited. It is objected that sloughing often follows the pressure to which a portion of the buttock is exposed by the weight of the body falling upon so limited an extent of surface, and that the patient is, at the same time, less able to vary his bearing on the bed, from the compara- tively unmanageable nature of the apparatus. It is further objected to the double inclined plane, that whilst the lower portion of the broken bone, and the leg and foot connected with it are quite fixed ; the upper portion cannot be so secured against the movements of the body, but that the fractured surfaces will ride apart or grind against each other; and in fractures near the trochanters it be- comes more especially difficult to confine them. In other words, the pelvis and thigh strap are not considered as efficient with the leg bent, as with the long splints and pads, which, applied in the extended posture, may reach to the arm-pit on the one side and the perineum on the other. Fig. 324 illustrates the commonest form of fracture of the cervix femoris. The plane of separation is some- what oblique, very near the head, and yet periosteal bands maintain some connexion between the shaft and head. The reparation in such cases is more to be considered as a feeble process of wasting. Further consideration of the advantages and difficulties of particular apparatus may now be referred to the occasion which the study of each particular kind of fracture will lead us to. Whether, for any particular kind of case, a certain uniform effect may be obtained, by the adoption of anyone posture or method of treat- ment, remains to be settled by experience; and I do not doubt that it soon will be, both with reference to the restoration of a good limb, and the diminution of suffering on the part of the patient. The only solid foundation for this experience lies in a precise discrimination of cases, and an accurate appreciation of every rational point which may modify them at the onset and in their course. With regard to the period at which the thigh should be reduced, after it has been broken, there may be some question. To place the limb in as easy, or as nearly natural a position as may be, is at once desirable. An excited condition of the muscles is a just reason for delay; and the interval should be employed in mild attempts to subdue it, or even in active depletion, when it is to be feared that inflammatory mis- chief is about to be set up. After active depletion or pro- tracted wasting, some extension may with care be safely employ- ed, and will generally be at- tended w’ith good success. Fractures of the Neck of the Thigh-bone. The accidents which have generally been designated by this name include fractures in three distinct parts of the fe- mur ; in two of which portions, union is generally allowed to take place, as in other fractures, by means of callus; in the other portion, however, the peculiari- ty of defective union is gene- rally to be met with. Upon this circumstance, which is suf- ficiently important, much has been written, but, generally speaking, too hastily. The first of the three divi- sions consists of fractures which isolate the head, or a part of it, within the cavity of the joint, so as to cut off all source of nu- trition or reparation, except that from the vessels of the round ligament. The second series comprises lesions between the trochanters, and that part of the bone which is not efficiently covered by vascular tissues. The third set involves injuries of the tro- chanters and the shaft together. These diffe- rent injuries occur separately or conjointly, Fig. 324.