FRACTURE. 320 tinued motion during- tlieir repair, which how-ever, is very rarely defective, but often excessive ; and it is remarkable that the cra- nium, devoid of‘ motion, can scarcely fill up a fissure. The complete circular division of the peri- osteum at a fractured part may well be a cause of non-union, since the persistence of bands uniting the fragments, well placed and duly organized, as well as stretched and irri- tated, can scarcely fail to facilitate, expedite, and increase bony union. Next to the complete division of periosteum, we may regard the absence or deficiency of periosteum as a local cause of non-union of fractures. When the neck of the femur is divided, the head is more or less completely deprived of nutrition and the means of reparation, ac- cording to the age of the individual, the pre- cise site of the line of reparation, and the per- sistence of periosteal bands reaching to the severed head. Here the possibility of bony union is still problematical ; a good ligament- ous union is rare ; a new synovial joint is sometimes formed, but commonly the cavity presents denuded surfaces of bone rubbing together. Fracture of cancellated bone is never re- paired so firmly as that of the solid shafts, and the reasons are various. The bony shell, in the former case, is extremely thin, and its nutrient periosteum is but proportionably supplied, and only proportionably capable of activity. It is true that the columnar tissue within is capable of some repair, but this is always scanty, and most of all after the period of growth has ceased. Cartilaginous surfaces are devoid of perios- teum, or at least of all the active functions of such a membrane ; yet the cartilaginous face of the patella seems to perform an efficient part in the ligamentous reunion which fol- lows transverse fracture of the bone. In the patella, the deficiency of periosteum posteriorly, and the scantiness of solid shell and commensurate periosteum anteriorly, as well as the wide separation and oblique or angular displacement of the fragments, suffi- ciently explain the great rarity1 of bony union, when the bone is divided transversely, and the scanty ossification of the part under all disturbing circumstances ; but the peculiar inertness of cancellated bone is here equally remarkable. The ligamentous union, after fracture, of the acromion and coracoid processes of the scapula ; and of the neck, and even of the body of the lower jaw, as well as of some other parts, may seem justly attributable to a want of pro- per contact during the repair ; but still the prevalence of spongy tissue in particular parts should not be disregarded. Both these cir- cumstances, and also the influence of repeated 1 See an account of a patella broken transversely, ami reunited by bon'-, by T. W. King, in No. xiii. of Guy’s Hospital Reports. Fig. 311. Diagrams showing sections of ligamentous union of broken patella. The continuity of ligament and arti- cular cartilage is evident. The original specimens are in the museum at Guy's Hospital. They indi- cate that the common effect of treatment is to press the articular surfaces of the fragments towards each other, and to separate the anterior edges of the broken surfaces, a. a. articular surfaces. movements, will have different proportions of influence, in almost every variety of cases of pseudarthrosis. The scanty repair of fractures of the skull, and the still more marked deficiency of ossifi- cation when a portion of the calvaria is lost, do not require specific explanations. In growing bones, with active organization, the reparations even here are very considerable ; and in other cases, where there is adequate periosteal excitement, various and sometimes large quantities of adventitious bone are pro- duced,—as in the varieties of exostosis, whe- ther within or without the skull. With re- spect to the repairing functions, the want of motion and contact are strikingly evident; and in such a case as that of the opening produced by the trephine, it is apparent that the cut edges of the bone become coated with peri- osteum, (as the end of a stump in amputation, or an isolated point in fracture,) and then, at once, all source of excitement or cause of inflammation declining, (if the bones have ceased to grow,) the changes become ana- logous to those of a disused stump. The symptoms of non-union in general may be said to force themselves upon the surgeon’s attention. The history of a fracture and its treatment, together with the flexibility of the part, and its comparatively useless and feeble condition, will scarcely admit of a miscon- ception. The examination of the part will speedily set suspicion at rest; but it is of con- siderable consequence that the state of the new articulation should be determined, as far as circumstances will admit, in order to judge of the most desirable plans of treatment. The duration of the false joint, the sensibility of the part, as indicative of the disposition to