817 CONGELATION. ing the ice, the animals appear quite lively, and do not afterwards sustain any bad conse- quences from the confinement in their icy prison. The observations of Dufay establish the same fact with respect to the common water-newt1. It is not, however, to be in- ferred that all cold-blooded animals admit of being frozen with impunity, for the experi- ment proves fatal to the greater number of them2. Even a part of the bodies of many of these animals cannot be frozen without de- priving the part of vitality, as has been ascer- tained by Thomson with respect to the limbs of frogs3. With respect to wrarm-blooded animals, there can be no doubt that none of them ever survives the congelation of the whole body, and this remark applies in an especial manner to man, who can never have any considerable portion of his body frozen, and much less the whole of it, without loss of life, although some surgical writers have exercised their ingenuity in de- vising the means of remedying such accidents. On the other hand, it is quite certain that small portions of the bodies of warm-blooded animals may be frozen, not only without de- stroying the life of the whole body, but with- out permanent injury to the frozen part. This was first satisfactorily ascertained by the ex- periments of John Hunter on the ears of the rabbit, and the comb and wattles of the cock. By means of frigorific mixtures he froze those parts completely ; on thawing them an attack of inflammation succeeded, but they recovered perfectly in about a month. The same prin- ciple obtains in the human economy, although we cannot speak definitely as to the extent of the parts of the body which have been known to be frozen and afterwards to recover. That an entire limb has ever been frozen and es- caped mortification is in a high degree impro- bable ; but that the extremities of the limbs may have been frozen, and afterwards have recovered, there is, we think, no reason to doubt, whether we found our opinion on ana- logy, or on the evidence derived from the records of surgery. We shall insert below a most interesting case, in which there appears to be satisfactory evidence of the hands having been quite congealed, as they continued to freeze the water in which they were immersed for half an hour after they were withdrawn from the cold, and yet both hands recovered, although not without mutilation. We have described above the condition of parts of the body that have been completely congealed. Very often, however, the conge- lation is not complete in the rigorous sense in which the term is employed in physical science. Parts affected with such incomplete congela- 1 Cuvier, Regne Animale, tom. ii. 2 Spallanzani, Opuscles Physiques, vol. i. chap. vi. 3 Lectures on Inflammation, p. G29. (We give this fact on the authority of Thomson, and not of Spal- lanzani, who is quoted by Thomson himself, because the experiments of Spallanzani, as we understand them, relate to the freezing of the entire animal, and not of single parts of it.) VOL. I. tions have their vitality more or less impaired. They are observed to be unusually pale and somewhat shrunk in volume. They feel stiff, or rather, to speak more correctly, the parts in their immediate neighbourhood feel stiff, for the parts themselves are no longer felt as objects of conciousness, and are incapable of transmitting any external impressions to the brain. So little uneasiness do these congela- tions occasion, that the person affected is very often not aware of their existence until they are fortunately discovered and pointed out to him by others, so as to enable him to adopt the very simple means necessary for recovery. A fact in some degree analogous has been men- tioned by Larrey and other observers. Sol- diers exposed to severe cold during a winter campaign, never apply for the assistance of the surgeon while the intensity of the cold con- tinues, but as soon as a thaw takes place, they present themselves in great numbers to be treated for their frost-bites1. One reason of this is, that, so long as the cold continues, the congealed parts remain in a state of torpor ; and it is only when an elevation of tempera- ture brings on re-action, that pain or other uneasiness is felt to induce the soldiers to apply for relief. There is, however, still another rea- son to be assigned, viz. that on the occurrence of a thaw, although the cold as measured by the thermometer is less intense, yet as measured by our feelings it is, according to universal ob- servation, greater than before, and produces a greater refrigeratory effect upon the body. This is owing to the cold being now accom- panied with moisture, which gives both to the air and to the half-melted snow a greater con- ducting power, and by soaking into our shoes and other coverings render them less efficient in retaining the heat of the body. We shall hereafter point out the very'close analogy which subsists between the pheno- mena of burns and those of the secondary stage of congelation. In the meantime we may remark, that there is no condition of burned parts at all corresponding to the pri- mary stage of congelation. The moment a part is burned, that moment symptoms of re- action manifest themselves, unless indeed the heat applied has been so violent as at once to destroy the vitality of the burned part; but we never observe from the action of a burn- ing heat any state of suspended vitality such as we have described as resulting from the action of cold. Secondary stage of Congelation, or stage of Reaction. The state of torpor, which we have described as induced by the local action of cold, and constituting what we have named the primary stage of congelation, is frequently succeeded by a stage of reaction, in which the vital func- tions of the part congealed pass from a state of inactivity to the opposite state of violent over- action or inflammation. To induce the stage 1 Larrev, tom. iii. pp. Gl,62. 3 G