115 AMMONIA. In amenorrhcea, from interrupted functions in the various organs, and consequent decline of the general health, whether in the youthful or adult female, a plan of treatment of some continuation will become necessary, which J)lan may with propriety be classed under the ollowing heads: 1. Mild and continued purgation. 2. Exer- cise in the air, as much as the patient can bear without fatigue. 3. The warm hip-bath or pediluvium. 4. A rigid system of dietetics. 5. Medicines which assist in promoting a healthy digestion. 6. Medicines which are supposed to possess the power of exciting the secreting vessels of the uterus. 1. The value of the Hamiltonian system of purgation will be almost universally admitted in amenorrhcea. Who has not oftentimes seen it produce the long-looked-for discharge, without an auxiliary remedy ? Of the warm stimulating aperients which act on the lower part of the intestinal tube, probably aloes is the best, in the form of the compound decoction, or the aloetic pill in combination with rhubarb. Purgatives should be ad- ministered with great regularity, that the bowels may be acted upon freely, but not powerfully. The degree of debility in the digestive apparatus should be the principal guide in the choice of aperients, care being taken that too great a depression of the vital energies does not ensue from an excess of alvine discharges. 2. For the promotion of health in the various secretions, any of the active exercises in the open air when the atmosphere is dry and cool are highly important. Walking, moderate dancing, (not in hot rooms late at night,) horse-exercise, &c., gradually increased in frequency and force, without inducing much fatigue, should be practised with regularity, notwithstanding it may be necessary to enforce it against the inclinations of the patient, whose bodily and mental faculties will probably have become languid and inactive. If the system be greatly impaired, the passive exercises, as riding in a carriage, or sailing, should be sub- stituted. 3. Twice or thrice in a week the warm hip- bath, at about 95°, for a quarter of an hour, should be used, after which, friction with a soft brush or flannel, will prove serviceable ; indeed, when from circumstances the kind of exercises alluded to are unattainable, a valua- ble substitute for them will be found in general friction ; it promotes a glow and perspiration, and tends greatly to increase the energy of the frame. 4. I he diet should be light and nourishing, and the quantity moderate at each meal. Sti- mulating drinks are generally to be avoided, but in some cases a glass of good Madeira, sherry, or a little mild ale may be taken daily, provided it does not occasion headach, or preternatural activity in the circulation. _ 5. When the functions of the stomach are disordered, aromatic bitters will often prove of service, either alone or combined with steel. Probably one of the best forms in which steel can be administered, is the Mis- tura ferri composita. The cardialgic symptoms, if troublesome, may generally be removed by the liquor potass® subcarbonatis. A course of chalybeate waters may be tried, their efficacy being aided by the society and amusements which, at public watering places, can be usually obtained. 6. In the medical treatment of amenorrhcea much confidence has been placed in the various stimulating medicines termed Emmena- gogues, from their being thought capable of exciting the uterine vessels. " In their ex- hibition care must be taken that the system be placed in a state fit to receive them. If the vital actions be too low, or on the other hand, if they be much excited, emmenagogues, always of doubtful utility, are inadmissible. Madder, savine, hellebore, guiacum, iodine, secale cor- nutum, strychnine, &c., have all in turn been extolled ; they are, however, more calculated for suppression than retention of the cata- menia. In married females, or widows, the local remedy recommended by Lavagna may be tried ; it must be considered, however, as secondary to general treatment. Ten or twelve drops of the aqua ammonia.: pur® in an ounce of milk and water, (or of sufficient strength to produce some degree of irritation) are to be thrown into the vagina twice or thrice a day. . Galvanism and electricity have been em- ployed with success ; and the tourniquet has been applied round the thighs for the purpose of causing a greater determination to the vessels of the uterus ; the latter plan has met with but few advocates. In amenorrhcea, blood is occasionally dis- charged from the nostrils, nipples, bowels, or sometimes from an ulcer, which seems in- tended as a substitute for the catamenial secretion to keep up the balance of the circu- lating fluids ; this has been designated vicar- ious menstruation. (George Jewell) AMMONIA, MURIATE of, hydro-chlorate of ammonia, sal ammoniac, syn. mwriat d’am- moniaque, Fr.; Salmiack, Ger. The name ammonia is derived to this substance from the circumstance of its being formerly procured from Ammonia, a district of Egypt, in which was situated the temple of Jupiter Ammon. It used to be obtained by subliming the soot formed by burning camels’ dung. As che- mistry advanced, it was derived from other sources, and was commonly prepared by add- ing sulphuric acid to the volatile alkali ob- tained from soot, bones, and all the offal of large towns, mixing it with common salt, and subliming it. It is now obtained in great abundance, and at a very cheap rate, from the ammoniacal liquor resulting from the distilla- tion of coal to form gas. In the liquid state, ammonia is highly caus- tic, and produces powerful effects on the ani- mal economy. When applied to the skin, it produces, according to its state of concentra- I 2