296 ANKLE. Hercules Farnese of Naples, the Discoboli of the Louvre, &c., are models of anatomical correctness, which we may in vain look for in the most perfect specimens of modern sculpture. Fig. 99. situation, alivays appears so very high up. a, the flexor longus pollicis pedis, which lies directly upon the posterior ligament, and synovial membrane of the joint, which are protected by it; b, the flexor longus digitorum pedis also lies close upon the joint; be- tween these two muscles, the posterior tibial vessels and nerves pass towards the foot; c, the peroneus longus muscle, which surrounds the back part of the fibula; d, the tendon of this muscle, which passes in the groove formed for it in the fibula, lying upon the tendon of the peroneus brevis, and with it passes into the sheath below marked l; e, tendon of the tibialis posticus muscle, which is covered by tlw flexor digitorum pe- dis muscle; f the tendon of the flexor digitorum muscle exposed by cutting open its vagina; g, tendon of the flexor pollicis pedis ; hh, the articidation of the tibia ; i, the peroneal a rtery ;j, the cartilaginous semi- circular extremity of the culcis, upon which the tendon A chillis passes; k, the posterior extremity of the calcis ; m, the lowest and most prominent part of the posterior surface of the astragalus; this projection may generally be felt: between the spaces which are formed by the separation of the muscles, a quantity of adipose tissue exists. The skin which covers the ankle presents but slight differences to the surgeon’s eye. It is thinner upon the surface of the malleoles than elsewhere, more extensible and more easily folded in front than in any other part; it is less extensible upon the inner than upon the outer ankle, owing to the skin being more firmly connected to the fascia beneath by fibrous tissue, which is inserted into the plan- tar aponeurosis. As in the vicinity of all other joints, where constant flexion and exten- sion occurs, it presents transverse folds or rugae before and behind the ankle ; in both these aspects also, it is thicker than else- where, especially in front, and among the working classes, in whom accidental bursae mucosae are here sometimes observed. The skin lying immediately upon the hard and resisting surface of the malleoles is fre- quently exposed to injuries from blows, or by fractures of those bones ; varicose veins, by ulcerating, often produce sores in this region, which are very troublesome and difficult to heal. In all operations upon the ankle region, and particularly above the malleoles, the sur- geon should always remove as little skin as possible, for wounds are constantly more difficult to cure in proportion to the degree of tension and motion of the integuments. In consideration of the transverse rugae in front of the ankle, Mr. Brenan advises in opening this part to discharge matter, to make the in- cision transversely; but as there is much flexion and extension in this part, the lips of the wound are much more liable to be sepa- rated when we make a transverse, than a ver- tical incision. In order to avoid large superficial veins in our operations upon the ankle (as in every other part), the surgeon should always apply a bandage round the leg, when the veins will become apparent, and their exact situation may be noted down, by marking their course with ink ; by proceeding thus, many veins can be spared which surgeons are every day wounding unnecessarily. The sub-cutaneous cellular and adipose tissue of the ankle is bound down in front or connected by means of aponeurotic fibres to the annular ligament, and thus any great accumulation of fat in this situation is pre- vented, which would evidently impede the motions of the foot and ankle ; for this reason also, in children, and fat persons, a transverse furrow seems to pass across the ankle, just below the lower extremity of the tibia ; the adipose tissue rising above and below this furrow, renders it still more remarkable. The submalleolar depressions also contain adipose and cellular tissue, which is here also liable to be the seat of oedema. The greatest quant ity of adipose tissue is found near the tendo Achillis, and in the posterior lateral furrows, especially in females, where, by its great accumulation, it produces many changes in the forms, and, when in excess, completely destroys the beauty of their outlines. It is not the object of surgical anatomy to describe the minute and superficial vessels and nerves which are found in this region. The surgeon should, however, endeavour to avoid the musculo-cu- taneous nerve, which passes before the ankle,