AMAUROSIS. 89 nary purposes, as in dressing, walking, eating, &c.; and if there has been uneasiness or sense of fulness in the eyes or forehead, blisters should be applied to the temples or to the forehead, but not kept open. Small doses of mercurials, with mild aperients, and diapho- retics, or narcotics, are necessary, according to the state of the digestive organs, the skin, or of the nervous susceptibility : and further, some mild tonic, as sarsaparilla, cusparia, cascarilla, may be used to promote appetite, and improve digestion : in delicate and young persons, steel is often of great service. The diet should be nutritious, but not stimulating ; and exercise should be taken in moderation, but never so as to create fatigue. The adoption of this plan is easy in all cases, except in respect to one circumstance, which is of great importance ; viz.—the rest of the eyes. The disease is extremely com- mon in those who have to obtain their liveli- hood, and support a family also, by work which in many instances, cannot be followed without much exertion of vision, but which cannot be altogether given up. I have gene- rally found that such cases can be cured by re- gulating the labour of the eyes, and steadily persevering in the other means which I have detailed. By regulating the labour of the eyes, I mean dividing the work so as to pre- vent congestion, and giving intervals of rest for the recovery of tone in the organs to carry them through a fresh period of employment. Thus, supposing a patient can work an hour without the vision being impaired, but not longer, he should then be directed to work only for half an hour at a time, and to allow intervals of rest to the eyes, of a quarter of an hour ; he can thus work four-fifths of his usual time, while his cure proceeds at the same time. The period to be employed at work, and the intervals of rest, must be regulated by the character of the affection. As a principle, however, it may be laid down, that the period allowed for employment should always be short of that required to create disturbance of vision ; but the time designed for resting the eyes should never be less than a quarter of an hour. I have succeeded in curing very many cases by this plan of treatment. Supposing that the impaired vision occurs within half an hour after the eyes have been employed at work, it is best for the patient to lay aside his business for a week or two until the affection be mitigated; for he could hardly adopt the plan above recommended in less urgent cases, as the periods allowed for work would be too short for him to gain much ad- vantage by his labour. In all cases, use of the eyes with the aid of artificial light should be as much as possible avoided. The impaired vision caused by a condition of plethora or fulness of the vascular system, is readily cured by lessening vascular tension ; by the moderate abstraction of blood, a dimi- nution of diet, and attention to the principal secretions, with rest of the organs for a few days. The fixed and permanent muscae, I consider to be the result of the most trivial organic change in the choroid; and usually produced by a partial morbid enlargement, or varicosity of the choroidal vessel or vessels; whilst the eva- nescent muscae are, I believe, created by pres- sure on the retina, from a partially congested vessel or vessels. When the fixed muscae oc- cur, with a general obscurity of vision, and evidence of inflammation of the choroid, they may have been produced by a morbid deposit in or on the choroid which presses the retina. I have come to this conclusion, in consequence of finding that the fixed muscae in a field of vision otherwise clear are rarely to be re- moved ; whilst those which exist with a gene- ral disturbance of function of the retina, fre- quently disappear with the inflammatory action of the choroid. The appearance of one or two dark and fixed muscae, without any further disturbance of vision, is common, and most frequently of sudden origin ; but occasionally it is preceded by the evanescent muscae. Unless there ap- pears a tendency to an increase in size or num- ber of the muscae, I now feel little inclination to adopt any particular treatment for them, but caution the patient against the exciting causes of choroid congestion. I have, formerly, in numerous instances, treated such cases by active, and by alterative and continued means, with a view to their cure, but with so little good result, that I am now content to arrest the progress of the affection ; and I find that the patient soon becomes accustomed to the muscae, which do not wholly impede his vision. Several persons whom I am in the habit of meeting often, have these fixed muscae, but have become so accustomed to them, that they are scarcely conscious of their existence unless asked about them. To check the increase of the fixed muscae, the treatment which has been described as successful in removing the volitant and eva- nescent muscae, is in principle that which I adopt. Inflammation of the choroid, as a primary disease, either in acute or chronic form, is not very common, and is, I believe, but indiffer- ently understood, being frequently confounded with iritis, of which it may be the cause ; for the very intimate vascular connexion between the seats of those diseases hardly admits of the existence of inflammation in one without the other being rapidly affected. Choroiditis, therefore, produces iritis ; and iritis produces choroiditis. It is a matter of considerable importance to form a correct diagnosis, since the success of treatment in these diseases (as in most others) mainly depends upon it. I shall, therefore, point out the marked differences in the early symptoms, and I trust render the diagnosis simple. In choroiditis, disturbance of vision precedes any alteration in the iris, or sclerotica; and when the iris becomes sensibly affected, the change in its colour, and loss of brilliancy, is