630 CANCER, PATHOLOGY OF. to increase materially the quota of death from cancer among the assured. 7. Preexisting state of economy.—Various writers affirm that a syphilitic taint of the con- stitution facilitates cancerous formation, even in organs unconnected with those primarily affected with the venereal poison. This is an assertion of which we have not been able to discover any solid proof; the comparative im- munity of prostitutes from the disease in the organs most likely to suffer, militates against its accuracy. It is difficult for many reasons to ascertain whether the married or single state is most favourable to the development of the disease in females. Among 172 persons whose matri- monial condition we extracted from the re- gisters, we found 17 spinsters, 84 married women, and 71 widow's. But as the propor- tional number of females belonging to each of these classes in England has not been ascertained, these absolute numbers cannot lead to an accurate decision of the point. If, however, acting on the supposition that the proportions are pretty equal in different European countries, we take those ascertained by census for the Parisian population, and compare them with our deaths from cancer, we obtain the following results, which may be looked upon as an approximation to the truth : of the unmarried '07 ; of the married (MS; of widows 1\32 per thousand die from car- cinoma. But these proportions are probably mainly influenced by the mean age ot the dif- ferent classes of wromen furnishing them. 8. Mental affliction.—Much has been written on the influence of moral misery, sudden reverses of fortune, and habitual gloominess of temper on the deposition of carcinomatous matter. If systematic writers may be credited, these constitute the most powerful cause of the disease. M. Lobstein, assuming the fact as established, exercises his ingenuity in tra- cing the connexion of cause and effect; moral emotions produce defective innervation ; this, perversion of nutrition, w'hich in its turn causes the formation of carcinoma: the ca- tenation is singularly clear. But though we doubt the lucidness of this explanation, and affirm that mental depression has not been proved to exercise the alleged influence, we are far from denying that facts of rather a convincing character in respect of the agency of the mind in the production of this disease are frequently observed. It should, however, be recollected that cancer is a very rare affection before the thirtieth year, and that the number of persons fortunate enough to reach that age without having suffered under disappointed hopes and wasting grief, is, in all probability, comparatively small. Authors who dw'ell most strongly on this mode of causation of the disease, curiously enough fix on the middle ranks of society as those furnishing the least amount of cancerous disease, yet these are precisely the classes in which reverses of fortune must most fre- quently occur, and in which the mental anxiety inseparable from professional and commercial pursuits must be strongest and most lasting. 9. Intellectual labour has been speculatively set down as a predisposing cause of cancer; but we have been unable to discover any sound motives for the opinion. 10. Climate.—On the influence, if any, of climate in the production of this disease we have nothing of a satisfactory kind to offer. Mason Good mentions its being a matter of general agreement that the disease is more frequent and more virulent in the high northern latitudes than in the southern re- gions of Europe : but the grounds for this uniformity of opinion are not stated. Pro- fessor Otto in his recent elaborate essay on the medical topography of Copenhagen1 makes no mention of the disease. Out of the population of Paris in 1830, amounting to 770,286 souls, there were 602 deaths (112 males, 490 females) from “3cirrhus and cancerthis gives a mean annual mor- tality from those affections of ‘781 per thou- sand—nearly four times as great as that of London2. Of a total number of 30,102 cases admitted into the Hobart-town Hospital during twelve years, there w'ere but four cases of “scirrhus3.” In the pages of the Calcutta Medical Journal we occasionally find a passing remark on the infrequency of scirrhus and encephaloid among the Hindoos ; but probably these observations are little more than mere matter of surmise. 11. Hereditary Transmission.—The question whether the disease is transmissible from parents to their offspring is one which has repeatedly been mooted and decided chiefly on theoretical grounds, or from very limited observation, in the affirmative and negative alternately. Whatever be our general theory of hereditary influence, a satisfactory conclu- sion regarding its connexion with cancerous disease can only be obtained by the well- advised application of the numerical method. The only absolute demonstration of its reality would be the discovery that of a large mass of cancerous individuals a very considerable majority were born of parents similarly dis- eased ; and that of a like series of subjects unaffected with carcinoma, a small minority, at the most, sprang from a cancerous father or mother. Additional confirmation of the fact would be had, were it proved that the mean period of manifestation of the disease were materially earlier among cancerous in- dividuals born of parents similarly affected, than among persons of untainted parentage. While, however, the existing want of satis- factory proof of the hereditary origin of carcinoma is incontestable, the presumption 1 Prov. Med. and Surg. Trans, vol. vii. 1839. s Journ. Complein. du Diet, dcs Sc. Med. t. 41. p. 440. 3 Scott, in Prov. Med. and Surg. Trans, vol. iii, 1835.