FURUNCULUS. 397 occurred in children in whom there had pre- viously existed much debility and fever of a low type. It was usually accompanied by more or less disorder of the gastro-intestinal canal, or of the head or lungs, and coma gene- rally preceded death. In two cases in which Dr. Copland had an opportunity of inspecting the external lesions, he did not find any satis- factory explanations of the peculiarities of the affection, but only such marks of disturb- ance about the brain, lungs, and alimentary canal as frequently follow other diseases. There were no attempts at reparation in the ulcerated perforations. Dr. Copland remarks that he has met with cases of this affection, or one very similar to it, following the applica- tion of leeches to cachectic and debilitated children. Treatment.—The treatment of furuncle in ordinary cases is very obvious and simple. It consists either, on the one hand, in arrest- ing, or, on the other hand, in expediting the progress of the tumor, and afterwards assist- ing in establishing a favourable termination. To auswer the first indication, it has been advised to lay on the surface of the furuncle, in its earliest stage, a slight layer of nitrate of silver, and it would appear that this practice has, in man}' instances, effected a complete cessation of its growth. Dr. Macartney has mentioned, that an early application of the water-dressing will prevent the tumor attain- ing any large size, and, at the same time, re- lieve the patient from all pain ; but the incon- veniences attending its employment in this affection are sufficient to prevent its being ordinarily resorted to in practice. Resolution may also be attempted by means of general antiphlogistic treatment,—by the application of five or six leeches to the tumor in its earliest stage,—the topical employment of ice, or of alcoholic lotions,—the >use of pro- longed bathing, &c. Emetics have been re- commended to be administered at an early period, to be followed by repeated doses of mild saline purgatives. This treatment is particularly applicable where there is evi- dence of gastric derangement. The method of treatment, however, in common use, is to promote suppuration by means of warm fo- mentations or emollient poultices : for after the most favourable success in arresting the progress of these tumors, their resolution is seldom found to be complete, and the parts remaining indurated for a long period be- come the source of various inconveniences to the patient. The formation of pus, and the mortification of the cellular membrane, usually precedes for some time the completion of the process adopted by nature for their expulsion. It is well, therefore, to anticipate the natural open- ing of the tumor, by using the lancet ; for the period of its duration is thus shortened, and much pain saved to the patient, and, the pecu- liar aperture of the furuncle, when permitted to form, being always in the first instance ex- tremely minute, a freer exit is made for the contents to escape. This practice is the more important, when the presence of the tumor is giving rise to active local disturb- ance ; as, for instance, when it occurs in the perineum, between the anus and scrotum, and causes such irritation and distension of the parts in its neighbourhood, as to inflict pain and difficulty on the patient, in passing his urine ; or when inflammation of lym- phatic vessels and glands is excited, as not unfrequently happens, when it appears in the axilla. We must guard against incising these tumours at too early a period : no good is accomplished if they are laid open before suppuration is fully established; in- deed, according to one author, “the cure seems to be rather retarded than expedited, and other boils are much more likely to occur in the neighbourhood The furuncle being cut into, and the more fluid contents squeezed out, particular attention must next be paid to the extraction of the core. If this be not done, or only imperfectly ac- complished, the cure is materially delayed ; or, if the furuncle should chance to close in the mean time, an indolent induration and enlargement of the textures involved in the affection are the necessary consequences. I have seen neglect of this caution, in the case of a large furuncle on the upper eyelid, give rise to a considerable swelling and consequent disfigurement of the part mentioned, at the same time that there appeared to be a con- stant disposition in it to take on fresh inflam- mation. If there be difficulty in effecting the removal of the slough, either from its quantity or from the firmness of its connexion, or if it cannot be removed without giving much pain, the walls of the containing cavity may be excited by some stimulating applica- tion, and the insertion of a little chloride of mercury in the form of powder, will be found to answer the purpose better perhaps than any other remedy. Ordinarily, however, the object is accomplished without the necessity of employing any such means, and a light poultice, or lint moistened in warm water, being then laid on the part, a perfect cure is soon obtained. Attention will of course be directed to correcting any predisposing state of the sys- tem, which may appear to have induced the morbid action, by the exhibition of aperients, alteratives, &c. By some the use of the mineral acids has been particulaily recom- mended for removing constitutional disposi- tion to the development of furuncular tu- mors. No specific rules, however, can be given for the constitutional treatment in such cases ; it must depend on the circumstances of each particular case engaging the surgeon’s attention. Dr. Copland has mentioned various reme- dies to be used for the asthenic furuncle. The chief of these are the sulphate of quinine ; the mineral and vegetable acids ; camphor or am- ’ Plumbe, Diseases of the Skin. Cli. xii.