EPISTAXIS. 137 in the alimentary canal, &c. On a close in- vestigation of such cases it is found that there is no intolerance, at least, no material intoler- ance of light, no inflammation of the eye, no puftiness or pain in the situation of the lachry- mal gland. For such a state of things, small doses of mercury with light bitter infusions ; rhubarb and soda ; the sulphate of quinine ; the administration of anthelmintics, accord- ing to existing circumstances, will be proper, but I purposely omit therapeutical details, being only required to point out the leading principles of treatment. The chief thing to be borne in mind in the particular class of cases now under consideration, is that they are to be considered not so much a disease of the eye, as an atfection of the stomach and bowels ; requiring not so much the use of collyria and the application of unguents, as the administration of medicine, and the regu- lation of diet. However, it is often neces- sary to connect with constitutional treatment, some local applications, such as a weak solution of zinc, (two grains to the ounce of water,) or nitrate of silver (two or three grains to the ounce of water). Either of these drops may be carefull}' applied to the surface of the eye, by means of a camel hair pencil or the ordi- nary glass dropping tube, every night and morning. The object being to apply the lotion very freely to the surface of the con- junctiva without force or abruptness, it is desirable to request the patient to lean the head as much backwards as possible, and then to bring the point of the pencil so near the margin of the upper lid as nearly to touch it, when the fluid it suspends is permitted, slowly and gradually, to diffuse its first influence on that part of the conjunctiva which covers the upper portion of the sclerotica, and not to concentrate its effect to as limited a spot as possible, as in the case of pustule or macula of the cornea. In other instances, and especi- ally if the eye is the seat of material uneasi- ness, I am in the habit of recommending the patient to add a tea-spoonful of aether or about twice that quantity of the wine of opium, or a vinous solution of belladonna, to a small cup of boiling water, and to expose the eye to the vapour arising from this preparation for ten minutes every night and morning. I have been consulted by persons at the middle period of life, suffering from epiphora, in whom there existed no cause for the affec- tion, either of a local or general character, capable of being ascertained by the most diligent scrutiny, who have nevertheless been entirely cured of their troublesome disease, by the occasional application of leeches a little above and to the outer part of the eye- brow. The application of a weak solution of the nitrate of silver to the eye two or three times a day, and an occasional blister to the temple has, at the same time, been recom- mended. In these cases the disease existed only in one eye.—See further Ophthal- mia, Lachrymal Organs, Diseases of. (Richard Middlemorc.) EPIPLOCELE (from tninKoov, omentum, and KtjXi], tumour). . An omental hernia. EPISPADIAS (from cm, above, and (77rctw, I divide). A malformation of the penis, in which the urethra terminates on its dorsum, at more or less distance from the arch of the pubis. It is used in an opposite sense to that of the term Hypospadias, which designates the abnormal condition, in which the urethra is similarly malformed at any point of its course on the inferior surface of the penis. EPISTAXIS (from tin and errata), stillo. Syn. (TiiaTa'iiQ, Gr. Hcemorrhagia narinea, Stillicidium e naribus, Rhinorrhagia, Hcemor- rhcea narium, Sanguijluxus ex naribus, Lat. Hemorrhagic nasale, Hemorrhinie, Saignement du Nez, Fr. Nasenblutfius, Nasenbluten, Blu- tungen aus der Nase, Ger.) By this term is implied any discharge of blood from the nos- trils, whatever may be its source, or the cause which has produced it. Bleeding from the nose is an occurrence so obvious, that it must have been observed in the very earliest ages, and accordingly, we find it noticed by the most ancient medical authors. The very term Epistaxis was fre- quently used ; Hippocrates, however, made some distinctions with regard to the circum- stances under which the bleeding took place, applying the term aipoppayia to an abundant flow of blood ; putrif when the discharge was less violent; and araXuypog to that which flowed drop by drop. But in the present day the term Epistaxis is applied to every kind and degree of bleeding from the nose. It is convenient, however, to recognize some varie- ties, as there are distinctions founded on the different causes which produce the haemor- rhage, the phenomena by which it is accom- panied, and the mode of treatment which is required. The most obvious varieties are the traumatic, and the symptomatic or consecutive ; the former depending on rupture of vessels by mechanical force ; the latter on certain derangements in system at large, or in par- ticular organs. Of this latter class we have two principal orders, the active, depending on sanguineous congestion of the vessels of the mucous membrane, produced by a plethoric state of the system, increased activity of the circulation, or alteration of tissue ; and the passive, being a mere transudation of blood through the coats of the vessels under debi- lity, and in certain maladies in which the com- position of the blood is altered—as scorbutus, typhus, and other diseases of an adynamic type. Under one or other of these forms, Epistaxis may be supplementary to the men- strual discharge, periodical, and is thought by some to be critical in fevers and in some other diseases. Epistaxis is the most common form of haemorrhage, and Blumenbach states that it is peculiar to the human subject : the causes of its frequency may be referred to the anatomi-