787 CLUB-FOOT. ment, is often found tying down the malleolus internus to the calcancum ; the external late- ral ligaments are lengthened. To a certain degree, the contrary must take place in valgus. The capsular ligament is stretched anteriorly, posteriorly, or laterally, according to the variety of the deformity. In the case of extreme varus, the anatomical examination of which is recorded by M. Holtz of Strasburg1, a vacancy existed between the astragalus and calcaneum, filled with fibrous and ligamentous matter, which contributed much to maintain the unnatural position that the astragalus had acquired. The plantar (inferior calcaneo- scaphoidean) ligament was shortened, and tended also to keep up the mal-position. The remaining ligaments presented very slight deviations from the natural state, with the exception of the superior calcaneo-cuboid ligament, which, in accordance with Scarpa’s observation, was very much lengthened. The plantar aponeurosis, to the contracture of which Maisonnabe ascribed the origin of club-foot, was found, by Cruveilhier, to have lost, in common with the other aponeuroses and fascite of the foot and leg, the firm dense structure which ought to characterize it. It had become “ singularly thinned,” offered no obstacle to the extension of the toes, and its transverse division did not in the least facili- tate the restoration of the displaced bones. This may have been the case in the instances examined by Cruveilhier ; but subsequent ob- servations have demonstrated that it does frequently materially impede our efforts to reduce the bones to their natural situations, and that, in these cases, much is gained by a transverse division of its fibres. The muscles and tendons display considerable deviations from their normal condition. One set of muscles is found to be more lengthened, their antagonists shorter than natural. The tendons, as represented in fig. 172, in passing Fig. 172. Fig. 172. Displacement of the tendons in varus. over the foot, are drawn out of their ordinary 1 Repertoire General, t. 4. course, and some of those which, at first, re- sisted the production of the deformity, may, in their new position, assist in increasing it. The muscular tissue itself is generally in a state of atrophy, shrunk both in length and bulk ; its fibres are sometimes converted into a kind of fatty matter, but this fatty degenera- tion, Dr. Little states, is very rare. The tendons are usually more slender than ordi- nary, and appear disproportionately long. There are cases, however, where some of the muscles, the gastrocnemii for instance, are spasmodically contracted into a firm ball, as in cramp ; and their tendon (Achilles) is thicker and stronger than natural. The blood-vessels are much dwindled in size ; in an adult case Cruveilhier was unable to inject the muscular arteries. The nerves, also, supplying the muscles in this subject were shrunk, and reduced to little more than their neurilema. Finally, at those points where the distorted foot rests upon the ground, a synovial capsule is frequently developed beneath the skin, which, at this point, is rough and horny ; whilst the skin of the sole, not having been subject to pressure, is unusually thin and delicate. The morbid conditions above enumerated, belong to the three first varieties of talipes. In t. calcaneus, or talus, fig. 173, the result of Fig. 173. Fig. 173. Talipes calcaneus. contraction of the tibialis anlicus, and extensor digitorurn, the bones are displaced in a direc- tion precisely opposite to that which is pre- sented by a case of talipes equinus. III. Treatment of Club-foot. 1. By mechanical means. 2. By division of the tendons of those mus- cles which, by their contraction, have caused the distortion ; and completing the restora- tion of the foot to its natural position by me- chanical adjuncts. Before we resort to either of the methods 3 E 2