AMPUTATION. 127 cases, which I attribute to the frequency with which he w'as accustomed to renew the dress- ing, and thereby disturb the limb. It con- trasted strongly with that of Sanson, who adopted Sir Astley Cooper’s plan of treatment with much success. Disunited fractures, whether they have given rise to the formation of an artificial joint or not, may sometimes occasion such serious consequences as to require amputation, when the evil cannot be removed by other measures. Luxations.—It is only for compound lux- ations, properly so called, that amputation is sometimes required. But, for these, the ope- ration is more frequently necessary than for compound fractures. Almost always when articular surfaces are largely exposed, the patient’s life is in danger, unless amputation be performed without delay, especially if the surrounding parts are much injured. The danger is greater than in compound fractures, and arises from the number and importance of the organs in which an injured joint excites sympathy—sympathy of the di- rectest and deepest kind ; and also from the difficult and peculiar nature of the process required to repair articular structures. The sympathy between the synovial and the serous system is immediate : and the inflam- mation of all the component parts of joints is not easily borne. Yet there are many cases in which amputation may be dispensed with, viz : those in which the joint is not exten- sively opened, and the ligaments are but slightly lacerated ; and in dislocations of the foot where the injury, although considerable, may be mitigated by the removal of the astra- galus. Sir A. Cooper was one of the first to show what nature could effect in these cases, under skilful management, and to him we are indebted for the history of many such lesions treated successfully without amputation1. (See Arthritis, Traumatic.) Wounds.—There are very few ordinary wounds so extensive and severe as to require amputation. When part of a limb is torn off, it will be found better in general to amputate; but, in some instances, the wound is, or may be made sufficiently regular for the formation of a good cicatrix, without the operation. The various and complex lesions, termed gun- shot wounds, very often require amputation : indeed, it is more frequently indispensable for them than for any other mechanical injuries; not only because they may include many of these, such as fractures and dislocations, but because, ceteris paribus, they are in the fullest sense of the word, and more strictly than almost any other lesions, contused wounds. The con- tusion accompanying them is always intense ; being carried, for an extent of parts more or less considerable, to complete disorganization, and for some distance, to a degree bordering on disorganization. The tissues are lacerated, and often contain foreign bodies ; the bones are frequently splintered and denuded ; in a 1 See also cures by Langier and Amal. word, the destruction of parts is great, and those not destroyed are irremediably injured, to a greater or less extent. The margins and surface of gun-shot wrounds are, by the event, dead. They present, then, at once, mortifi- cation—superficial, perhaps, but still mortifi- cation combined with more or less of the other mechanical lesions which render ampu- tation necessary. This is the true reason why they more frequently require it than any other injuries, and not because there is any thing burning, venomous, or malignant, de- posited in them by the projectiles which in- flict them, as was formerly supposed by Ferri and others. A gun-shot bruise or wound, in which the principal substance of the limb is contused to disorganization, and more espe- cially if the nerves and large vessels are in- jured, (whether or not there be fracture or rupture of the skin,) is decidedly a case for amputation. Another case is that in which the bones are fractured at their articular extremi- ties, except in rare instances, where the wound is small and the bone merely traversed by a ball. In the very great majority of cases where joints are laid open, and the end of one or more bones fractured, death is the result, unless the operation be performed without delay. This appears to be the opinion of the best surgeons, and of Velpeau, whose remarks on this subject are highly valuable. That gun-shot wounds, in w'hich the bones are comminuted, also require amputation, seems to be an opinion supported by the best authorities : those of the thigh and leg almost always require it ‘. The shattering of the limbs from other causes is not quite so serious, and amputation is not so positively indicated. Tetanos.—To perform amputation for this disease, (a disease so evidently having its seat in a large portion of the nervous system), when it has once commenced, seems absurd. Strange to say, however, cases are recorded in which it is stated to have been successful. If such a result has really been observed, it can only be explained upon the supposition, that a cure of the disease of the nervous sys- tem was effected by a sort of counteraction excited by the operation. That the disease can be cut off with the limb seems Impossible. Amputation can be scarcely justifiable here, since a far greater number of cases of tetanos, said to be authentic, have been cured by mea- sures incomparably less severe than that which involves the sacrifice of a limb. We admit that under unfavourable circum- stances, and during the prevalence of tetanos, it may be advisable to have recourse to the operation in those cases of severe injury, for which, under influences less disastrous, its ne- 1 In public institutions for the reception of disabled soldiers and sailors, few are found who preserved their lower extremities after these injuries. Such lesions inflicted during the last French revolution, even where every possible care was taken of the wounded—where they were surrounded by the most favourable circum- stances, produced death, when not treated by amputa- tion, except in rare instances.