181 FARCY. tion, prostration occurs from the eleventh to the fourteenth day, with delirium, fetid, invo- luntary stools, and other putrid symptoms, and death takes place from the thirteenth to the nineteenth day. In cases of accidental inoculation of farcy, where eruption does not follow, the diagnosis is much less grave. In the eruptive farcy nine deaths have occurred in eleven cases; and, on the other hand, four out of five have been cured in farcy without eruption. How- ever, when the disease has terminated favo- rably, the cure has taken place after a month or more of suffering. It may be asked, whe- ther these cases, which in reality did not differ from ordinary cases of dissection wounds, otherwise than in their cause, and in the fre- quency of extensive abscesses, are not benig- nant forms of farcy ? May not some of them have been caused by farcinous matter, altered, and modified ? Should they be considered as cases almost similar to anatomical or surgical wounds, with introduction of morbid poison ? At present these questions cannot be satis- factorily answered. It however may be af- firmed positively, that the consequence of dis- section wounds, circumscribed angeioleucitis, with numerous successive abscesses, without eruption, has been more frequently observed in veterinarians, who dissect glandered horses, than amongst anatomists who dissect the human body ; and that this form of farcy (if, as 1 believe, it be one,) is much less danger- ous. The anatomical investigations which had been made prior to mine on farcy were not conducted with sufficient care; the nasal fossae and larynx had been examined but once by M. Wolff; and there might in some cases have in reality been an eruption in the nasal fossae and larynx, even though no discharge from the nose had been observed during life, a fact which I have myself observed, both in the horse, and in the human being, attacked with farcy. The lymphatic vessels and ganglions of the inflamed parts had not been examined, or, at least, no mention had been made of such re- searches, and this is the more to be regretted, as the inflammation of these vessels had been manifested in almost all the cases by unequi- vocal symptoms during life. It does not even appear that any one thought of examining the lymphatic system, or at least the ganglions in other regions of the body. In all the autopsies, abscesses have been observed in the subcutaneous and intermus- cular cellular tissue, and these collections were very much more frequent in man, than in the solidipedes. As in the ca<e of these animals, sometimes the veins of the parts affected have been found to be inflamed ; but what ought, in my opinion, to have arrested attention particularly, is the lesion of the lungs, analogous in all points to those ob- served in acute glanders, and which have been observed generally in the train of puru- lent absorptions, and other infections by mor- bid poisons, viz. small abscesses in the lungs, softening of their tissue, sero-sanguineous fluid in the pleura and pericardium, &c. &c. In some cases a lymphatic exudation has been observed in the arachnoid, in another a small abscess in the brain, and in a third sanguine- ous serum in the arachnoid. As acute glanders always manifests itself in man with the external characters of the dis- ease, known in horses as the acute farcinous glanders, the analogy of acute farcy with glanders is most striking ; nevertheless, the existence of nasal discharge, and of pustular eruptions in the nostrils, and sometimes in the larynx, clearly separate acute glanders from farcy. We must distinguish true farcy in man from other forms of angeioleucitis, with nume- rous abscesses, which bear a strong resem- blance to it in regard to symptoms. Thus in the dissection wounds of surgeons and of veterinarians, with inoculation of glanderous or farcinous matter, the first symptoms pre- sent an undoubted resemblance, being in both cases inflammation of the lymphatic vessels and ganglions, sometimes of one or two veins, diffuse inflammation of the cellular and inter- muscular tissue, fever, &c. The difference of the cause alone prepares us for the difference of the ulterior symptoms. In cases of inoculation, say in the thigh, or in any other part of the body, where a cup- ping-glass may be applied, it will be proper to have recourse to it, and immediately after to cauterize deeply the little wound. In the same manner as veterinarians destroy farcinous pustules by knife or fire, in two cases of farcy without eruption, Lorin extirpated successfully the inflamed lymphatic ganglions. Local bleeding, emollient poultices, and at a later period, alkaline poultices, mercurial friction, &c. have been employed, but writh little success, to combat the local inflamma- mations of acute farcy. By means of free incisions, issue is given to pus, when it forms collections in the subcutaneous or intermus- cular cellular tissue. The general treatment, or that directed against the infection, is just as uncertain in man as it is in the solidipedes. (b. 5.) Chronic farcy in man.—All the indi- viduals in whom this form of farcy has been observed, have been veterinary pupils, grooms, or persons employed habitually about glan- derous or farcinous horses. In most of them the symptoms have been developed in conse- quence of wounds inflicted on themselves while dissecting, skinning, or operating on animals that had been affected with glanders or farcy, the kind of glanders, or farcy, not having been rigorously indicated. But it re- sults from my own observations, that chronic farcy in man is most frequently a conse- quence of the inoculation of matter produced from the glanders, or acute farcy of the soli- dipedes. Chronic farcy in man differs from the acute not only in its progress, but also in a remark-