585 CALOMEL. Litliiasis causis et curatione, ex Graecis aliisque col- lectis. Paris, 1570. Boscius, De Lapidibus qui nas- cuntur in corpore humano, praecipue renibns ac vesica,etipsorum curatione. Ingolstadt, 1580. Wecker, De Lithiasi. Bale, 1592. Mockius, De Causis Con- cretiouis et Dissolutionis, tam extern® quain interna;, corporis humani. De Lithiasi, sen Morbo Calculoso. Fribourg, 1596 and 1614. Schenk, Lithogenesia. Francfort, 1608. Hioschchilt, De Calculorum Gene- rationc. Bale, 1616. Van Helmont, De Lithiasi, in Op. Omn. Schobinger, Lithologia Medica. Bale, 1637. Rolfink, De Generatione Calcul., signis et remediis. Jena, 1663. Schneider, De Calculo. Wittembcrg, 1650. Borrichius, De Lap. Generatione. Ferrara, 1687. Faschius, Historia et curatio Cal- culorum human. Jena, 1676. Mezger, Scrutinium Lithog., a work chiefly on Biliary Calculi. Tu- bingen, 1683. Koenig, Lithol. human® specimen. Vienna, 1689 & 1696. Boerhaave, Praelect. De Cal- culo. Gottingen, 1752. Vidal, Traite sur la pro- duction des Pierres dans le corps humain. Chamberi, 1723. Tenon, Recherches sur la nature des Pierres do corps humain, in Mem. de l’Acad. 1764. Vicq. D'Azyr, Obs. sur les Concretions animales en Mem. de TAcad. Rov. de Med. 1779, 1780, and 1781. Estrade, Memoire sur la maniere dont se forment les Pierres dans lc corps humain et sur les moyens de les dissoudre. Martinique, 1790, Fonrcroy, Sur le nombre, la nature et les caracteres des Calculs, &.c. in the Annalcs du Musee. Paris, 1802. Marcet, Essay on the chemical history and medical treatment of Calculous Disorders. London, 1817. Henry, On Urinary Concretions in the Med. Chir. Transactions, vol. x. p. 123. Volkel, De forrnatione Calculor. Breslau, 1822. C male's statistical work on Calcu- lous Diseases, and Willis. (R. Willis.) CALLUS. The organic substance effused between the extremities of fractured bones, and by means of which they become solidly united. The process of its formation will be described under the head of Fracture. CALOMEL, (hydrargyri chloridum, vel protochlondnm) is a compound of metallic mercury with one equivalent of chlorine, and is usually met with in the form of a ponderous yellowish white powder, of a feebly nauseous smell and taste. It may truly be styled the most important preparation of mercury ; and indeed there is scarcely any medicine which equals it in the mildness yet activity and cer- tainty of its operation, and which is capable in various doses and combinations of ful- filling so many and so important therapeu- tical indications. Its general influence on the economy is that of a most energetic evacuant and antiphlogistic; increasing all the secretions, and lowering the circulation and nervous energy. In surgical practice it is available as a purgative ; as a remedy for inflammation, acute and chronic ; as an anti- svphilitic; and as a local application: on these respective uses we must speak some- what in detail. As a purgative, calomel is seldom em- ployed amiss, when inflammation has to be combated or prevented in vigorous constitu- tions. But the cases in which its good effects are most prominently displayed are those of cachectic inflammations accompanied with a vitiated state of the abdominal secre- tions ; as for instance in many cases of scrofula—in inflamed and irritable ulcers aris- ing in bloated habits—in erysipelas, carbuncle, whitlow, boils, and other lesions of the skin —and in cases where slight injuries seem likely to originate spreading inflammations, or tetanus. The dose as a purgative is from two to six grains, which may sometimes be combined with a fourth or half-a-grain of tartar emetic, or with three or four grains of James’s powder, to aid in lowering the pulse and restoring the secretions of the skin ; or with a fewr grains of camphor, or extract of henbane, or a small quantity of opium, when the pulse is feeble, or there is much nervous irritability. In either case the calomel should be followed after a short interval by an aperient draught. As a general rule, the dose may be repeated as long as the condition of the patient, and the aspect of the stools con- tinue to improve under its use ; recollecting, however, that the continued employment of calomel is of itself sufficient to render the stools green and slimy : and bearing in mind the practical caution of Dr. Armstrong, that after the skin of a child has become cool and perspirable it cannot be continued freely without hazard of violent salivation. The experiments of Mr. Annesley have given rise to the theory that large doses of calomel diminish, whilst small doses increase, the vascularity and irritability of the stomach. At all events ten or twenty grains (with or without a grain or two of opium) will some- times be found to check obstinate vomiting, whether arising from inflammation within the abdomen, or from that state of constitutional disturbance which Mr. Travers terms “pro- stration with excitement,” and which frequently succeeds violent injuries, especially burns. The employment of calomel, so as to affect the system as an antagonist to inflammation in general, is quite of modern date. It seems to have been first publicly advocated in this country in 1785 by Dr. Hamilton, who, from a consideration of its known efficacy in hepatitis and certain forms of ophthalmia, was induced to extend its use to other inflammations likewise ; and as the practice has received the favorable suffrages of almost every succeeding writer of authority, it has now become univer- sal. How or why its beneficial effects are pro- duced, it were vain to inquire. Dr. Farre ad- vanced the theory, that the action of mercury is one which essentially weakens the adhesion of parts ; and this, although by no means receiva- ble as an explanation of the cause, is still a sort of key to its practical application. For the inflammations in w'hich calomel is most ser- viceable are those which tend to produce adhesion or effusion of organizable lymph, whether on the surface of a serous membrane, as the iris or peritonteum, or in the interstices of an organ, as the lungs or testicle. And in these cases it seems capable (when adminis- tered with proper adjuvants) not only of ex- tinguishing the diseased action of the capil- laries, but also of causing absorption of the matters effused, and restoring the part to its