FRACTURE. 823 crutches, while he lets his weight bear some- what on the fractured limb, is a modification of this method. The exercise thus afforded may so improve the general health of the patient, as materially to add to the chances of the successful issue of the treatment. In the Richmond Hospital, cases of un- united fracture have of late years been of unfrequent occurrence. In the last six years I have myself had but one case. The frac- ture had taken place in the humerus, and, although the case was not very promising, the patient being an elderly man, and not of a vigorous constitution, I succeeded, by freely rubbing the fragments together and ban- daging firmly, in procuring consolidation. Dr. Hutton has lately treated a case in the same manner with success. The various methods of treatment that have been at different times adopted for the cure of false joints, all include this common principle,—the excitement at the seat of the fracture, of a certain degree of inflammatory action, that may originate the series of changes necessary for the secretion of defini- tive callus to unite the fragments together. The absorption of intervening soft tissue is almost an equally necessary, or constant, part of the reunion. It is commonly asserted, that a state of perfect rest is indispensable to the proper arid speedy union of fractured bones; and the current opinion of surgeons seems to be, that as soon as the necessary inflamma- tion has been excited in a false joint by fric- tions, the most fixed position of the limb should immediately be secured. The truth, however, appears to be,that it is very difficult to induce sufficient inflammation, and, there- fore, still more difficult, surgically speaking, to produce too much. The student who may hesitate to acknow- ledge the unfavorable influence of rest, and the important use of compression, as here maintained, will do well to weigh in his mind the several ideas of fracture in a mean, a minor, and an excessive state of inflamma- tion, when an easy posture and repose of parts must have very different kinds of in- fluence ; and, on the other hand, cases of non- union, in which little or no bone is formed, and in which great or small quantities of dense membrane are interposed between the fragments, and where active absorption and inflammation can alone be of any avail. It is somewhat curious that it has occurred to but few surgeons, amidst all the reflections devoted to the subject of splints and contri- vances for keeping broken limbs motionless, that it might be possible to do too much, and so to prevent salutary, or reparative inflam- mation, and ossific deposit. Kluge permits his patients to use the limb when first union threat- ens to be tardy ; and when inflammation is thus excited, he re-applies the means of fixing the parts. He finds that speedy success at- tends this practice; but we cannot imagine that such a plan is to be employed without precau- tion to secure the patient against accidents. In the Hunterian Museum are several spe- cimens of false joints (synovial and ligamen- tous) from the extremities of monkeys, ro- dents, and birds. The quantity of ossification on each broken end in these cases is generally considerable, and sometimes great. Mr. Hunter imputed the non-union in these cases to the unrestrained motion of the limb; I conceive, that motion first augments ossific inflammation, and then retards union, having also a decided influence on the character of the new joint; and that something more than this assigned cause is essential to determine the arrest and decline of ossification ; for in- stance, the feeble health of a wild animal in confinement, or the want of food which a broken limb would ensure to it in a state of nature. I have fully explained how it may happen that a mass of soft callus becomes converted by motion and tension into a ligamentous tissue ; but the formation of a synovial cap- sule may require an additional reflexion. While the soft callus is defective, and the apposed ends or surfaces of bone are more or less imperfectly nourished, the existence of a cavity (the original cell of the frac- ture), is maintained by the presence of un- organized but unirritating matter (fluid or solid) ; and at the same time, deficient inflam- mation, and possibly some occasional motion, are causes of the persistence of the articular cell. Finally, free motion serves to stimu- late the development of the new capsule, and to render the adventitious articular surfaces more defined and permanent. As shown in the table, friction of the ends of the fragments was employed eleven times, with success, in the course of a few weeks or a few months ; and, in most of the cases, the false joint had existed for about six months previously, and involved the femur, tibia, or humerus. The same method of treatment is shown to have failed about two-and-twenty times, under circumstances not very different from those of the cases in which it was found successful. One of the successful cases (No. 69), was seriously protracted by abscess. Compression requires to be considered in connexion with friction. As we found that the want of new bone and of due coaptation, and the prevalence of solid ligamentous matter, were the principal causes of pseudarthrosis, so we may understand that forcible compres- sion of the solid points against each other must be a powerful means of exciting, first, the absorption of all intervening soft tissue, and, secondly, ossific inflammation. It is important to observe that, ligamentous union having commenced or being established, free motions of the limb, no doubt, induce an elongation of this uniting medium, and excite its nourishment; while the tendency to fresh ossification rather declines: and this may be a cause of the greater frequency of non-union in the humerus and femur, in which all motion tends most, powerfully to lengthen the soft band of union, and not to approximate the