126 AMPUTATION. health shows that he would sink under the disease, if the limb were not removed. Here it is the state of the body, and not the state of the joint, which determines whether and when amputation is required ; for, until the general health gives way, there is always hope of every disease known by the name of white swelling terminating by ankylosis, or in some manner which will admit of the preser- vation of the limb. Extensive suppuration, with or without ulcer- ation of the integuments.—Cases of extensive suppuration have been put down among those which may require amputation by some au- thors. If the patient’s life be menaced with exhaustion by the abundance of pus secreted, the surgeon has to consider by what means he can remove the cause of it; and, if this is local, perhaps, in rare instances, all other means having failed, amputation may be indi- cated. But where the secretion of pus de- pends, in whole or in part, upon an internal or general cause, it is evident that the operation would be worse than useless. It is always dangerous suddenly to arrest the suppurating process, and that in propor- tion to its extent: and, therefore, when a case presents itself in which local suppuration or ulceration has produced so much havoc as to render a limb useless, and put life in peril, no pains must be spared, (for management alone is scarcely sufficient) to ward off the conse- quences inseparable from the direct stoppage of a copious purulent discharge. The mate- rials of such a drain must be largely, ade- quately diverted to other external channels, by the most appropriate emunctories, or their reflux internally, which otherwise could hardly fail to take place, must produce congestion in the internal organs, with that tendency to suppuration which makes it almost always fatal. Fractures'.—Compound fractures in which the bones are extensively shattered, denuded, and displaced, especially in the immediate vicinity of large joints, in which the main trunks of vessels or nerves are injured, ten- dons denuded, and the muscular parts largely destroyed or contused ; the presence of these complications combined, or the existence of one of them, in a manner to constitute an in- jury which the careful and analytical investi- gation we have recommended shows to be irreparable, renders amputation necessary. Terrible compound fractures have often been cured, where the general circumstances were favourable, and sometimes even in hospitals, where the patients were not placed in the purest air, or surrounded by the greatest comforts. Dupuytren saved the leg and life of a gentle- man in a case of fracture, in which the poste- rior tibial artery was opened, by setting the bones, and tying the femoral artery, a bold line of practice, originating, as he thought, with himself, but recommended, I believe, by that excellent surgeon, John Bell. 1 See Pott's remarks on Fractures. The following case occurred in hospital practice :— A strong man, about thirty-five years of age, was brought to the Hotel Dieu, with one of the severest compound fractures of the leg I ever saw. It occupied the immediate vicinity of the ankle-joint. The ends of the upper frag- ments protruded through a large wound of the soft parts. The foot with the inferior frag- ments (which were not more than an inch and a half in length), was bodily displaced an inch, at least, on the outside of its natural position, and seemed to hang to the rest of the limb only by tendons. The patient ob- stinately refused to submit to amputation, al- though apprised that it was the only means of saving his life. To add to the gravity of the case, traumatic delirium of the worst kind suddenly came on, during which the patient removed the dressings, and used his limb as if it had been entire, so as to cause the foot to hang still more loosely by the connecting ten- dons. Yet, strange to say, this man recovered. The delirium subsided. In a few days, a mass of granulations sprung up, as if by enchant- ment, and wrapping themselves round the ends of the bones, they seemed to draw the foot more and more into its natural position, and thus to achieve that fixation which had in vain been attempted by splints and bandages. The projecting extremities of the fragments studded in coral granulations, which presented a most beautiful appearance, became necrosed and fell off, a firm cicatrix ensued, and the man could walk and use his foot remarkably well. ■—' In cases where nerves and large vessels are uninjured, where the joints and tendons have escaped serious lesion, amputation may not be necessary, unless the destruction oi skin and muscle be so considerable as to render the formation of a good cicatrix impossible ; or unless the general circumstances in which the patient is placed establish a necessity for the operation. Splinters of bones can be removed, the ends of fragments can be cut off with a saw ; and when a fracture is thus regularised, it is the state of the soft parts only which can make amputation indispensable. We repeat, the general circumstances of each particular case must be taken into consideration. It is probably their omission in the calculation which has rendered the results of various practitioners apparently so opposite ; some contending that amputation is hardly ever necessary in compound fractures ; others, that it is frequently called for. Among the former, Bardy, and among the latter, Bending, have written in support of these opposite doc- trines. Velpeau has recorded some bad cases of compound fracture cured without amputa- tion. Sir A. Cooper’s practice abounds with them ; indeed, it is to him that we are chiefly indebted for the treatment by which such fa- vourable results have of late been obtained in this department of surgery. Dupuytren’s hos- pital practice was far less favourable in these