EMPYEMA. 114 two the much larger, twig runs. The division of the costal pleura itself is by some recom- mended to be performed with a lancet, but such caution seems useless. When the flow of matter announces the pleura to have been divided, the opening in that membrane should be enlarged sufficiently to give free outlet to the contained fluid. If the operator have been unfortunate enough to incise the pleura over the site of firm, thick, and strongly adherent pseudo- membrane, and in consequence no fluid ap- pear, the line of conduct to be further pursued must vary with the surgeon’s confidence in the correctness of his diagnosis in other respects. If he still remain satisfied of the presence of liquid effusion, the attempt to evacuate this may be proceeded with ; if he be apprehensive of having altogether erred, the obvious course is to dress the wound, and avert, as effectually as possible, the ill effects of the unnecessary suffering to which the patient has submitted. In the former case, surgeons have attempted to tear asunder the pleural adhesions,—a procedure utterly un- justifiable : the only admissible modes of act- ing are, to enlarge the existing opening with the bistoury, or to make a new one. The opening may be enlarged, if the free border of the membranous mass interfering with the escape of the fluid be ascertained to be per- fectly close to the angle of the existing wound ; under other circumstances, a new incision must be made. Laennec once eva- cuated a large quantity of fluid by a second puncture, in a ca^e where the surgeon had persisted in making the first at a certain point, in opposition to the express directions of that admirable master of diagnosis. Two other methods of opening the chest date so far back as the time of Hippocrates. These are, 1. perforation of a rib; and, 2. the formation of an eschar, either by the actual or potential cautery. 1. The plan of perforating a rib with a trephine constructed for the purpose, wholly forgotten since Hippocrates, has been recently restored by M. Reybard. The object of this surgeon, in recurring to this antiquated prac- tice, was to ensure a solid support for a canula, which he proposed leaving in the pleura, as a sort of drain for, or, at least, means of remov- ing at will, any new accumulation which might arise. The case thus treated, already operated on in the ordinary way, terminated favourably; and neither caries nor necrosis of the bone appear to have complicated its progress. From this single case it is, however, impossible to draw any safe inference as to the expediency of the plan *. 2. Modern surgery repudiates the idea of opening the chest by an eschar produced with the actual cautery ; and we can imagine no advantage gained by substituting caustic po- tass for the bistoury, while numerous very serious objections to such a procedure mani- 1 Gaz. M6d. de Paris, Janv. 1841. festly exist. Nevertheless, in cases where an external abscess has formed, and in these alone, the opening in the skin may, if the subject be excessively timorous and impressed with a dread of cutting instruments, be made with a piece of caustic potass. Some writers lay very great stress upon the importance of preventing the occurrence of pneumothorax ; and there can be little ques- tion that the entry of air through the wound is a circumstance which it would be well, if possible, to prevent. But the efficacy of any plan devised for its prevention is extremely questionable. We are told, for example, to perform the operation in such manner, that the wound in the skin and intercostal muscles shall not be parallel (B. Bell, Larrey ') ; to place a tent or stopped canula in the wound ; to keep the edges of the incision carefully together by plaster, &c.—injunctions scarcely likely to ensure the desired effect. We have not had any experience of the plan recommended, in the following terms, by Professor Williams: “ As soon as the stilette is withdrawn,” (Dr. Williams recommends the operation to be performed with the trochar,) “steady pressure should be applied by the hands of the assist- ants to the affected side, to depress the ribs and shoulder and to press up the diaphragm, to promote the flow of liquid, and to prevent the introduction of air through the orifice during any sudden and forcible act of inspiration. For the same reason, during a fit of coughing, if there appear any tendency to intermission in the stream of liquid, the orifice should be closed by the finger. The pressure should be steadily increased as the liquid flows; and, if the stream should stop suddenly, a probe should be passed through the canula, to clear it of clots of lymph or other obstructing mat- ter, and this may be done also if the stoppage is more gradual; but, if still no more flows, the canula should be quickly withdrawn, and a compress or a large poidtice placed on the orifice ; and then, but not till then, the pres- sure on the walls of the chest may be with- drawn 2.” Various modifications of the common canula have been constructed for the purpose of preventing the occurrence of pneumothorax. These have invariably been found to fail in securing the proposed end. Whether that recently invented by M. Bouvier, and made by Charriere, the ingenious cutler of Paris, so constructed, it is alleged, as to let out the fluid during expiration and prevent the entry of any air during inspiration, be destined to prove more efficacious than its predecessors, we are unable to state. Its inventor affirms • In order to ensure this want of parallelism, Larrey draws the skin of the thorax upwards, and divides it at about one or two inches below the space which it is proposed to open. The skin then, according to this surgeon, forms an operculum for the opening, whereby the entry of air is prevented, while the escape of the fluid is in no wise interfered with.—Bull, de lL4cad. de Med. t. i. p. 73. 2 Lectures on the Physiology and Diseases of the Chest, p. 100.