FRACTURE. 326 place of the fracture, and the whole limb below it could be moved upwards and down- wards at least two inches. He was put on blue-pill, of which he took five grains three times a day, till his mouth was made sore; then on decoction of sarsaparilla ; and lastly, on small doses of nitro-muriatic acid, with nourishing- diet. A spica bandage was applied round the pelvis and upper part of the thigh ; and over this, the starched bandage, from the toes to the groin. The bandages were re- moved and renewed two or three times, for the purpose of ascertaining the state of the case. About tw-o months after the mouth had been made sore, the consolidation of the fragments had manifestly made considerable progress,—the limb at the fracture had ac- quired firmness, and it was no longer possible, by pressing the extended limb upwards, at the heel, with moderate force, to move the leg and lower fragment upwards, as formerly. About three months after his admission, the conso- lidation being sufficiently firm to admit of his leaving the hospital, he was advised to go into the country. In a case at the Middlesex Hospital of London, Mr. Arnott failed to effect a cure by mercury, and Mr. Charles Hawkins asserts, that he has seen mercury freely administered in three cases that had come under his obser- vation, without benefit. (Lancet, ii. 1839-40, p. 382.) “ Electricity has been employed w-ith good effect by Mr. Birch, of London. One of the pupils of this gentleman informed Dr. Ste- vens, of New York, that he had seen two cases in which it produced the most happy effect. One of these cases was seated in the leg, and was of thirteen months’ standing. * Shocks of electric fluid were daily passed through the space between the ends of the bones, both in the direction of the length of the limb and that of its thickness. The man being somewhat weak, used bark and porter at the same time. The leg was retained in the ordinary fracture dressing. Improve- ment was very perceptible in two weeks, and in six weeks he left the hospital cured.’ (Transl. of Boyer by Stevens—note.) Two cases, on the other hand, have been reported by Dr. Mott, (Med. and Surg. Reg. part 2. i. p. 375.) in which ‘ very powerful shocks of electricity were passed in different directions through the part’ without benefit.” In cases in which callus is not being formed at the usual period of consolidation, Sir B. Brodie recommends the application of blisters around the fracture ; and it is said within the first eight or ten weeks after the accident this measure may be attended w-ith success. A little later it would be certainty quite inade- quate to produce the desired effect: indeed, it may not unreasonably be doubted, whether re-union was ever facilitated by such means. “ The application of caustic alkali to the in- teguments over the seat of fracture. In 1805, Dr. Hartshorne of this city (Eclectic Reper- tory, iii. p. 114, 1813) successfully employed this practice in a case of ununited fracture of the external condyle of the femur of four months’duration, and in 1811 he applied the same practice to a disunited humerus of about five months’ standing, with the effect of partially relieving the patient: in this last case the issue was three inches long and one wide. A third case occurring in the femur, about which he was consulted in 1838, was cured by the caustic, conjointly with pressure. (American Journ. of Med. Sciences for January, 1841, p. 143.) An eschar three inches long by one wide, made on the arm with the caustic potash, where the injury was of six months’ standing, proved ineffectual in a case which afterwards came under the care of Dr. Hays. (American Journ. of Med. Sciences for January, 1841, p. 141.) The actual cautery has also been employed in these cases.” As the application of blisters and moxa, these means are said to be parti- cularly adapted to instances of tardy union, and especially of bones seated superficially, as the tibia and ulna, and the condyles of the femur. On the whole, however, the reader will be but little induced to rely on these methods. As counter-irritants they can only avail under very peculiar circumstances, if under any ; as producing deflection, they must but very rarely be required; and as directly leading to periostitis they are far less advantageous than other and less disorganizing agents. M. Pigne 1 states that M. Mayor has em- ployed the following method with good suc- cess :—Bending the false joint, in order to gain the most ready access to it, he thrust a large trochar into the space between the un- united bones, and thus introduced a canula which was left in for the space of eight hours, during which he several times introduced through the canula a metal sound as hot as boiling water. Inflammation followed ; the limb was put up in an immoveable apparatus, and at the end of three months the cure was complete. This may be compared to the use of half a seton, and it deserves especial atten- tion as involving the most powerful, yet very simple, means of destroying all obstructive membrane ; and of ensuring adequate inflam- mation, and even ossific union, provided that the constitution be not defective, and appo- sition and rest be duty attended to. The ingenious proposal of Dr. Physick, to pass a seton between the fragments, was put into execution by him with success in the early part of the present century. The ope- ration is performed in the following manner. Two assistants take hold of the limb above and below the fracture, and make extension and counter-extension for the purpose of sepa- rating the fragments. The surgeon then passes a flat or round seton needle, armed with a skein of silk, across the limb and through the fibrous tissue that unites the 1 See “Fansse Articulations,” in the French trans- lation of Chelius.