ANATOMY, MORBID. 193 substance under examination has been found and of their distinctive differences, but that, in the situation of this or that organ which in speaking or writing respecting them, he could not be discovered in its healthy state, should adopt terms and expressions sufficiently and consequently there may be reason to be- explicit, that others may not be at a loss lieve that the body under examination in respecting the particular form or mode of some way or other owed its origin to the derangement to which allusion is made. Er- organ of which it has taken the place. Fur- rors and defects in this respect are by no nished with this information, the inquirer will means unfrequent in writings and discourses proceed to examine the peculiarity of this concerning the objects of morbid anatomy, strange texture ; and he rpay discover, or and they are the more to be regretted be- conceive that he discovers in it, some traces cause they not only occasion misunderstand- of the natural structure which should have ing between the parties immediately con- existed in that situation, or, on the other cerned, but tend materially to retard the pro hand, the substance under examination may gress of this department of science, by in- present so foreign an appearance as to lead to cumbering it with adventitious difficulties the conclusion that some entirely new growth This evil does not wholly, or even principally, has taken the place of the original structure, depend upon the nomenclature of the sci- The general anatomist, as well as the special ence, which I shall have to notice hereafter, anatomist, will therefore find that he is en- It is perhaps yet more to be attributed to the gaged in an inquiry beyond the limits of his want of precise ideas to be conveyed by the department, though closely bordering upon terms employed. The increased accuracy it. It belongs to morbid anatomy to solve and precision which have of late years been the question, or to pursue the inquiry, if that adopted by pathological writers, the multipli- which is already known be imperfect. cation of museums rich in pathological prepa- .The cases which have been just supposed rations, and the increased fidelity of pictorial will serve to illustrate three subdivisions representations which have been numerously which morbid anatomists have employed, and published and widely circulated, will do much respecting which there has been great dis- to remedy the evil here complained of, but it agreement and controversy. Where the is only to be wholly removed by the members body whose irregular presence has attracted of the medical profession individually taking attention is found to consist of bone or fat, or up the study of morbid anatomy as a distinct some other structure which the general ana- and integral part of medical science, tomist recognises as natural to the body, the It is essential to the apprehension of the morbid appearance is said to consist of the numerous phenomena presented by morbid accidental production of a natural or analogous anatomy that they should be reduced to a tissue. When the natural structure no longer systematic classification. Although in such a exists, although some trace of the structure classification we must have nature for our belonging to the part may still be discoverable, guide, the divisions and subdivisions must in the morbid appearance is said to depend on some degree be artificial, consequently various the degeneration of the natural structure ; but systems may be constructed according to the when the pre-existing natural structure has various views of those who may undertake to given way to the encroachments of an entirely make them. The following, which is given new production, it is said that the morbid as a specimen, has been found practically con- appearance is the result of the accidental venient ; and as, in the present case, it will formationof a new, distinct, or heterologue tissue, serve as a key to some of the observations This distinction, which appears plain, simple, which will follow, it will illustrate the truth of and natural, and strictly inherent in the nature the observation, that classification is necessary, of the subject, would probably command uni- Deviations from the normal state may con- versal assent were it not for the difficulty of sist, deciding, in various cases, as to the group 1. In deficiency. under which the morbid structure should be a. The result of suspended develop- placed. The distinction between the de- ment. generations and adventitious productions b. The result of loss sustained, or of the heterologue kind has produced a privation. schism, in opinion at least, between some 2. In excess. of the most acute and able pathologists, 3. In alteration of form. and each sect has had its zealous partizans. 4. In appearances which may be regarded A minute knowledge of the intimate struc- as the result of ordinary inflammation. ture of the diseased part, and of the steps in 5. In appearances which are the result of the process by which it has been produced, scrofula. can alone settle these disputed points. In 6. In appearances which depend on diseases le meantime the morbid anatomist, whilst he called malignant, or which resemble them in may adopt or reject the views of one particu- structure, viz., lar sect,^ should be no less acquainted with a. The adventitious production of cysts, generally pedunculated, and voi,. i. assuming the form of reflected membranes, erroneously called “ Hydatids,” and which are often a, O