618 CANCER, PATHOLOGY OF. related by Rouzet. It possesses a peculiar, and almost characteristic fetor. It is said by some to effervesce with acids, and turn syrup of violets green ; but Ploucquet found, on the contrary, that it exhibited the reactions of an acid. In warm countries, especially, generation of worms not unfrequently occurs in this matterl. There is nothing, however, peculiar to the cancerous discharge in such development, yet the fact seems to have led to the singular theory, already noticed, re- specting the production of cancer by an in- sect. Valentin states his having discovered nuclear globules, and cartilage corpuscules in the “ pus of a cancer but, according to Muller, such discharge is not peculiar to this affection, occurring, on the contrary, from all suppurating surfaces.. To the similitude of pus granules, and nuclear epithelium cells, we have already adverted. The surface of the ulcer may participate in the kind of forma- tion displayed by the whole mass : thus Mul- ler has" seen the white net-work of reticular carcinoma spreading into the minute asperi- ties on the surface of fungating growths ; in encephaloid, consisting of caudate corpuscles, the tailed appearance is found in course of development in the most superficial part of new vegetations. The same observer once saw a thick layer of polyhedral chole-steato- matous non-nuclear cells, forming a mass like tallow, on the surface of a cancerous ulcer in the mamma. Singularly as the fact clashes with the general laws of carcinomatous growths, it is no less true, that these products are not wholly incapable of cicatrization. Scirrhous ulcers occasionally assume a healthy vermilion tint, become covered with normal granulations, and actually cicatrize over a greater or less extent of surface. Abernethy relates a case of encephaloid tumour of the groin, in which, after the removal of a “ portion of the tumour,” the ulcer gradually “ lost its inflamed aspect, granulations formed, and a cicatrix took place.” M. Berard witnessed a similar occurrence ; and cerebriform cancer of the limbs and me- ninges has been known to cicatrize in the same manner, after inopportune incision. According to Bayle,the majority of scirrhous formations, in which this change is observed, are of a particular structure and character. Pouteau considered them the most intractable of all. Certain it is, that the amendment is delusive and temporary : the process ceases, and the disease advances with renewed ac- tivity. It must be understood, that we here refer solely to cicatrization occurring over actual cancerous substance. The reappearance of carcinoma in the situ- ation of its previous development, after the spontaneous separation, or artificial removal of a tumour, is unfortunately a most common occurrence. This local reproduction is effected in different ways. 1. The process of cica- trization may not distinctly commence, or be interrupted at an early stage, and fungating 1 Vacher, Diss. sur le Cancer ties Mauimclles, p. 81. 5 growths spring from some part of the wound. 2. A perfect cicatrix forms, and after a vari- able lapse of time, a tumour grows in the sub- jacent tissues, presses on the modular struc- ture, destroys it, appears externally, and on examination, presents the characters of carci- noma. 3. Reproduction may be accomplished in the tissue of the cicatrix itself, by the deve- lopment of tuberiform, or infiltrated carci- noma. To whichever species the original growth belong, the secondary formation is ordinarily encephaloid ; hence, probably, the observation that consecutive, run their course more ra- pidly than primary, tumours. § 3. Pathology. (a.) Reference has been made in a prece- ding page to the disproportionate frequency of cancer in some organs ; for instance, the female mamma, the uterus, stomach, liver, and testicle. The cause of this particular prone- ness to the affection has naturally been made a subject of inquiry. Dr. Hodgkin conceives that, in respect of the genital apparatus of the female, the production of the disease is pro- bably favoured by the intermitting and peri- odical variations to which the functional acti- vity of the organs composing it is liable. But the comparative rarity of carcinoma of the ovaries, bodies participating in all the peculiar and sudden changes to which the other female organs are exposed, seems to shake very materially the plausibility of this doctrine ; besides, the alternations of activity, and of total inaction, are still more frequent in the brain than in the genital apparatus, yet the cerebral substance is, comparatively, rarely visited with carcinomatous disease. Ac- cording to the same writer, some parts appear to be predisposed to become the seat of can- cer, in consequence of their being possessed of a low or imperfect degree of vitality ; and the thymus gland, the supra-renal capsules, the mamma, and nasvi materni, are adduced as structures illustrating the opinion. We are not acquainted with any facts proving that such predisposition exists on the part of the thymus gland, or renal capsules ; and we be- lieve with Rayer, that the disease has not been observed in the latter, unless as a co- existence with nephritic or hepatic carcinoma. The vitality of fibrous tumours falls vastly short of that manifested by accidental erectile tissue ; yet we have seen the conclusion re- specting the immunity of the former growths from cancer, to which clinical study has led very distinguished observers, and, on the other hand, noted the well-ascertained fact of the frequent development of carcinoma in the latter. And if low vitality be so favourable a condition for the production of the disease, how comes it, that of all the splanchnic viscera the stomach is most frequently carcinomatous ? M. Cruveilhier, widely differing from Dr. Hodgkin, affirms that a superabundance of vitality and developmental energy exercises an unequivocal inlluence on the predisposition