COLLYRIUM. 797 must be the principles of the treatment. Dr. Stromeyer has treated several cases by divid- ing the tendons of the flexores digitorum pro- fundi et sublimes in each finger, opposite to the first phalanx. He does not, however, consider it advisable to divide all the flexor Fig. 183. Fig. 183 is a specimen of congenital club-hand, copied from Cruveilhier, Anat. Pathol, Livr. 11. tendons. He found in one case that the fin- gers lost a part of their mobility in the second and third phalanges, which he accounted for by supposing that adhesion had taken place between the tendons of the flexor perforans and flexor perforatus, in consequence of sec- tion of both having been practised at the same point. In another case the inversion was traceable to the existence of several ad- ventitious aponeurotic bands, extending from the fascia of the fore arm to the ulnar margin of the fore arm and palm. They were divided by a number of small incisions, partly subcu- taneous, partly necessitating a division of the skin itself. “This interesting observation,” adds Stromeyer', “in which very considerable de- formity had formed itself after two slight con- tusions, is a pendant to the contraction of the fingers by contracture and hypertrophy of the aponeurosis palmaris described by Dupuytren. The case was perfectly cured.” The mechanical means required in the after- treatment of club-hand, where the tendons have been divided, are not so complex as those employed in the extension of a club- foot. By means of a hand-splint, compresses, and a bandage, all the extension necessary may be readily accomplished. Henry T. Chapman. COAPTATION (from cum and aptare to fit or adapt). The restoration to their pro- per place of the fragments of a fractured bone, or confronting the broken extremities. The expression is also extended to the reduction of a dislocation. In some cases, this proce- dure requires nothing more than the simple apposition of the parts, as in the bones of the head, the nose, and in the ribs ; in others, it cannot bo effected without extension and counter-extension. It should never be at- 1 Letter before cited. tempted but by the surgeon, and, even by him, should never be effected but with care and gentleness. COLLYRIUM, a medicine for the eyes. Gr. KoWuprov from KoWvpa, which, according to Scaliger, signifies bread sopped, this hav- ing been early used as an application to the eyes. The word Collyrium, as at present under- stood, means an eye-water, but formerly it was applied to any medicine for the eyes, whatever its form. Recurring to the original and wider acceptation, it is purposed in this article to treat not only of eye-waters, but also eye- salves, eye-powders, elastic fluid applications to the eyes, and douches. The skin of the eyelids, and the conjunctival surface, are the parts of the eye which, under ordinary circumstances, are most open to the contact of remedies ; the derivative lacrymal passages, though also directly, are less easily accessible. Of the other parts of the eye the proper substance of the cornea, when laid bare by ulceration, and the iris when it is prolapsed in consequence of a wound or penetrating ulcer of the cornea, are those which may be- come the subject of the direct action of medi- cinal substances. The lacrymal gland and meibomian follicles may be influenced by the action of collyria on their excretory orifices, in consequence of the sympathy depending on continuity of structure. The internal tunics also, by virtue of their contiguity may be sym- pathetically affected by applications to the conjunctiva ; though in general, when these are stimulating, rather injuriously than bene- ficially. Hence it may be laid down as an axiom, that (to use the words of Dr. Macken- zie ') in the internal ophthalmiae, and especially in the acute stage, the application of stimu- lants is useless or destructive, while in con- junctival inflammations, more is effected by their means than by almost any other kind of remedy. Collyria have always been the resource of the mere oculist and half-educated practi- tioner ; hence this abuse has induced many persons to decry applications to the eye nearly altogether. It is quite true that diseases of the eye are frequently dependent on the state of the constitution, or on an affection of some other organ, and that consequently he who in treating some kinds of ophthalmia should direct his attention exclusively to the eye affected, might exhaust his whole ophthalmic formulary in vain. But on the other hand, it is not to be denied that, in many cases, dis- eases of the eyes are purely local, or though originally produced by constitutional causes, have in the end become local, and must be treated by local remedies. It is therefore quite as one sided, and displays as much nar- rowness of views to disregard the local affec- tion, and look to the constitution only, as to neglect this and apply remedies solely for that. To the account of the different forms of 1 Treatise, See. 3rd edition, p. 384.