FRACTURE. 21)0 of the limb, from the extended to semiflexed, will enable us to preserve the coaptation with ease. Sometimes the judicious disposal of compresses behind the lower fragment, so as to raise it to the level of the upper, will effect the same end. Sometimes, we are obliged to have recourse to a greater or less degree of permanent extension. In each par- ticular case we must endeavour to ascertain the cause of the deformity, and exercise our ingenuity to counteract it, either by evading it, or by mechanical force directly opposed to it. When a fracture is rendered open by one of the tw'o first causes, in every case in which the severity of the contusion of the soft parts does not preclude the possibility of procuring union by the first intention, we should take the greatest pains, by procuring it, to secure the great advantage of convert- ing the open into a simple fracture. For this purpose, as soon as the fracture is re- duced, and the limb is placed on the appa- ratus by means of which we intend to pre- serve the reduction of the fragments, we should carefully remove from the wound any clot, or w’hatever may act as a foreign sub- stance, and bringing its lips into nice apposi- tion, support them so, by drawing them gently together with strips of adhesive plaster, or by adopting Sir A. Cooper’s practice of cover- ing the wound, after placing its sides in con- tact, with a pledget of lint wetted in the patient’s blood. When the open fracture has been caused by the upper fragment having been driven through the integuments, the reduction (which here, as on every other occasion, should be performed as soon as possible, except in those cases in which the spasmodic contraction of the muscles would render the application of great force necessary to effect it, or in which the existing tumefaction and inflammation would make the attempts at reduction exceed- ingly painful,) is sometimes rendered difficult by the protruded bone being girt, or strangu- lated, as it were, at the rent it has made for itself in the skin. In this case it is much better, and attended with less pain to the patient, to dilate the wound freely with the knife, so as to admit of the easy return of the fragment to its proper situation, than to persist in making painful and fruitless efforts to replace it through the original wound. Sometimes, especially when the extremity of the pro- truded fragment is sharp, narrow', and rag- ged, the fracture being very oblique, we may fail to effect the reduction of it, even after having dilated the wound, unless we exert a degree of force for this purpose, which would to a certainty be followed by evil conse- quences. In this event the proper practice is to saw off the protruded part of the bone, after having insinuated a thin piece of leather or something similar, between it and the skin, to protect it from the saw. The reduction of the fracture will then, in almost all cases, be of easy accomplishment. Of fractures which require immediate amputa- tion.— In very bad cases of open fracture, as wrell as in very bad cases of any of the com- plications of fracture spoken of above, we are called upon occasionally to consider and decide the question of immediate amputation, often one of the nicest, and one of the gravest, —both as regards the weighty responsibility of the surgeon, and the life and limb of the patient,—to be met with in the practice of our art. It would be easy to describe one case, with respect to which we would at once decide against amputation, and another, so desperate, that we should unhesitatingly de- clare, that immediate amputation alone affords a chance of preserving the fife of the patient. It is easy, too, to lay down general precepts with regard to the fractures that demand immediate amputation. Thus, it is univer- sally deemed necessary, w'hen a part of a limb has been carried off by a cannon-shot; when a large joint has been shattered ; when the hone has been severely splintered, and the soft parts extensively mashed, or carried away ; when, in addition to extensive splin- tering of the bone, the muscles are severely contused, and their tendons and aponeuroses torn ; or when a fracture runs into a joint, the ligaments of which have been torn. Before we had learned to rely, as we now do, on anastomosing vessels to maintain the circu- lation in the lower part of a limb, the main ar- tery of which has been ruptured by one of the fragments, or opened in any other manner, this occurrence was looked upon as rendering immediate amputation necessary. The uni- versal practice in such cases at present is, to secure the wounded vessel, and give the patient the chance of retaining his limb. In debating with himself the question of imme- diate amputation, it is, no doubt, very useful and very right, that the practitioner should have these general rules present to his mind ; but he will meet with cases requiring a de- cision, respecting which he will feel that the light of these rules is of little avail. Midway between the extreme instances lately alluded to, there are truly doubtful cases, with regard to which even the practitioner of experience will feel much doubt as to the course, that the true interests of his patient and humanity direct him to pursue. There is but one w'ay in which the practitioner can prepare himself to treat such cases with the approval of his own conscience ; that is, by the close observation of the results of such cases du- ring his pupilage. While engaged in hos- pital attendance, amongst the multifarious accidents he will see treated, cases of this kind will occur. In some, amputation will be performed ; in others, not differing much from these, the surgeon will rely upon the resources of nature to preserve at once the life and limb of the patient ; in others again, the surgeon having given his decision in favour of amputation, the patient will refuse to submit to the operation. Let the student note every particular of the accident, and of the age, constitution, &c. of the patient, and