CORNEA. 838 1 Figure 2. times also more rapidly arrested. junctiva corneas, when it has become chronic, is frequently found very stubborn, whilst, if a well-directed local treatment be added, the eye is often freed from vascularity, and the cornea cleared with amazing rapidity. Some spots of opacity usually remain, however; and it is to be kept in mind that relapses are very apt to take place. Treatment.—As the disease usually takes its origin in a scrophulous or scrophulo-catarrhal ophthalmia, the treatment necessary for the one or the other of these is what is required at the commencement. In the chronic state, the direct application to the eye of some strong stimulant, such as the nitrate of silver solu- tion or salve, or the red precipitate salve, will be found of decided service. The salve is to be introduced under the upper eyelid, and diffused over the whole surface of the con- junctiva, by rubbing with the point of the linger over the eyelid. Two or three appli- cations have frequently sufficed to remove the most marked appearances of the disease, such as the vascularity and red specks. For the dispersion of the opacities which remain, a solution of corrosive sublimate, with vinum opii, has been very serviceable. See Colly- ritjm. In addition to the local treatment, general treatment will often require to be directed to the regulation of the digestive organs and skin, and, if the patient be a female, to the re-establishment of the catamenial dis- charge. Nourishing diet and tonics are in most cases beneficial. An enlarged state of the conjunctival ves- sels of the cornea (vascular cornea) is a not unfrequent appearance in chronic conjuncti- vitis. Though not always excited, it is kept up and aggravated by a granular state of the palpebral conjunctiva, a morbid condition which has resulted from the same inflamma- tion which first gave rise to the vascularity of the cornea. The continued irritation from inverted eyelashes is also a very common cause of vascular cornea. Treatment.—The source of irritation being removed, the vascularity of the cornea some- times subsides of itself, or with the assistance of local stimulants, counter-irritation, and tonics, or good diet and change Af air. Often, however, it persists, in spite of treat- ment, or, having been removed, readily re- turns. Inflammation of the proper substance of the Cornea, Corneitis parenchymatosa. Inflammation of the proper substance of the cornea appears under two forms. In the one, the morbid action is manifested only by its effects, which slowly ensue ; in the other it is accompanied from the first by increased red- ness and other primary phenomena of inflam- mation in a more or less marked degree. Though both forms are slow in their pro- gress, the latter, as was to be expected, is much less so than the former ; and if it leads more rapidly to a bad termination, it is some- Objective Symptoms of the first form.— Though in the first-mentioned form of inflam- mation of the proper substance of the cornea there is no increased redness to attract notice, still, on close examination, the white of the eye will not be found so perfectly free of in- jection as in the healthy state, besides being dull and dirty looking. The cornea appears simply interspersed with streaks or clouds of opacity, and unna- turally prominent, with corresponding enlarge- ment of the anterior chamber. Sometimes it is of a slightly greenish yellow hue, and rough on the surface, like obscured glass. Objective Symptoms of the second form.— In the second-mentioned form of inflammation there is distinct zonular redness of the scle- rotica round the cornea, and the proper sub- stance of the latter presents a grayish red opacity, interspersed with denser specks, in- clining to yellow. The injection seen deep in the substance of the cornea, evidently does not come from the vessels of the conjunctiva; and the radiating zonular injection of the scle- rotica is sometimes so slight as to warrant a doubt that the redness, so distinctly seen in the cornea, could be derived from it. But if we reflect on the circumscribed, and appa- rently detached redness of the conjunctiva, in pustular ophthalmia, produced by the con- fluence of a number of invisible vessels, there can be no difficulty in accounting for the in- jection of the cornea being derived from the slightly enlarged circum-corneal vessels of the sclerotica. When injection of the conjunctiva corneae is superadded, vessels from the circum-corneal net-work of the sclerotic conjunctiva encroach on some part of the margin of the cornea ; sometimes all round, in the form of a red ring about one-twentieth of an inch broad. Some- times, again, when the inflammation of the conjunctiva corneae is more intense, the injec- tion extends even to the middle of the cornea. In such a case, the superficial redness, thick- ening, and opacity may be so great as to con- ceal the state of the corneal substance. The affection of this, however, cannot be over- looked, if attention be directed to the in- creased prominence of the cornea and the attendant subjective symptoms, such as the in- tolerance of light, &c. In this form of inflammation, exudation of lymph readily takes place into the substance of the cornea ; but suppuration and ulceration are not so common as in the cases in which the cornea is secondarily affected. Increased prominence of the cornea1 is owing to softening of its texture on the one hand, and unusual accumulation of aqueous humour on the other; the latter resulting partly from the diminished elasticity and power of resistance of the cornea, and partly from increased secretion, as a consequence of ac- companying aquo-capsulitis. It is distinguished from conical cornea by its spherical shape.