FISTULA, INTESTINAL. 201 V.—Effects of Intestinal Fistula. The intestine, in the lesions now under consideration, being diverted from its na- tural course, restrained by adhesions, and perforated, is usually in a condition unfa- vourable for the perfect performance of the function of assimilation. The transit of aliment is often accelerated, and its course shortened ; consequently, the changes essen- tial to a healthy digestion are imperfectly per- formed, and the surface for absorption is often too limited for maintaining the nutrition of the body. Hence intestinal fistula is more dan- gerous in proportion as the opening maintains a greater proximity to the stomach. If the accidental anus be seated in the jejunum, the matters voided are not fetid, and the patient usually dies in a few days or weeks from inani- tion. In a case of umbilical hernia, recorded by Sir A. Cooper1, terminating in intestinal fis- tula at the lower partof the jejunum, death from inanition occurred in three weeks. Solid food was discharged from the wound in half an hour, and liquids in ten minutes. When the opening is in the ileum nutrition is generally less seriously affected ; and, if it be situated at the lower part of this intestine, a tolerable degree of health is sometimes maintained. In this condition the evacuations having been longer retained, and subjected to greater changes, have acquired a degree of feculent odour. When the larger intestine is the seat of the injury, the health may remain perfect, and persons have been known to acquire a considerable degree of corpulency during the existence of intestinal fistula of the colon. The injurious effects of intestinal fistula, even when situated in the upper part of the canal, are much mitigated when the escape of alimentary matters through the abnormal opening is only partial. In this case nutri- ment may pass into the lower portion of the intestine in sufficient quantity to support life, until the process of spontaneous cure is com- pleted. The interference of art may also modify the injurious influence of a fistula at the upper part of the small intestine, provided the continuity of the canal be not entirely in- terrupted. Thus moderate external pressure may sometimes prevent the escape of nutri- ment, and direct it into the lower portion of the tube. The serious consequences of inanition may also be retarded, and sometimes altogether averted, by the use of nutrient clysters. VI.—Complications of Intestinal Fis- tula. i. Prolapse.—As the orifice of an intestinal fistula is not guarded by a sphincter muscle, it frequently allows the intestine to protrude, and to form a tumour, which greatly aggra- vates the sufferings of the patient. At the commencement, the tumour appears as a slight projection of the mucous membrane of the intestine, of a red colour, occupying the abnormal opening. Subsequently, it in- 1 Op. citat. parti, p. 55. creases in size by the further protrusion of the inverted intestine. Desault has observed it nine inches in length ; Sabatier1 refers to cases of greater magnitude ; and Schacher - has described a protrusion of the colon, which measured 16 inches. The size is subject to variation from position ; after the recumbent posture has been maintained for several hours, the tumour is generally diminished in size, and sometimes altogether disappears. Its growth is usually gradual, but under violent muscular efforts, as coughing or straining, it may suddenly attain considerable size. The tumour is generally of an elongated and slightly tortuous form, contracted at its at- tachment, and perforated at its free extremity ; constituted externally by the everted mucous membrane of the intestine. It is of a red colour, and low degree of sensibility; moist- ened by a secretion of mucus ; and, when strongly constricted, by an oozing of blood. The surface is sometimes wrinkled, from the presence of the valvulae conniventes, and occa- sionally exhibits numerous small tubercles, which are the solitary glands in a tumid state. Sometimes the tumour exhibits obscure ver- micular or peristaltic movements. Protrusion of the intestine may commence within a short period of the establishment of fecal fistula. Sir Astley Cooper has observed it in one month from the occurrence of gan- grenous hernia. In a case recorded by Scarpa, prolapse did not occur until three years had elapsed. In the latter instance the abnormal aperture had been reduced to the size of a small fistula. The protrusion may occur at the upper, or at the lower opening, or at both orifices. Prolapse at the superior aperture is the most frequent, and usually attains the greatest magnitude. It is easily recognized by the ali- mentary matters escaping from the opening at its free extremity. Mr. Lawrence gives the following description of this affection in a man sixty years of age, who had voided the feces entirely through the groin seventeen years. “ The projecting part was four inches long when 1 saw him, and the basis, which is the largest part, measured nearly six inches in cir- cumference. This prolapsus never recedes entirely, but is sometimes considerably smaller. It has occasionally protruded to the length of eight or ten inches, being at the same time equal in size to the forearm, and bleeding copiously. This is attended with great pain, and only happens when the bowels are much disordered. Warm fomentations, and a re- cumbent position, relieve in this case, by causing the gut to return. The prolapsus is of an uniform red colour, similar to that of florid and healthy granulations. The surface, although wrinkled and irregular, is smooth, and lubricated by a mucous secretion. It feels firm and fleshy, and can be handled without exciting pain : it approaches on the ivhole to 1 Mem. de l’Acad. Royale de Chir. tom. v. p. 400. 2 Diss. de Morbis a situ Intestinorum preternatu- ral!, in Halleri Disp. Chir. tom. iii. p. 78. 1