ANEURISM. U62 sion. If any external veins should lie in the direction of the incision, they must be set aside. The situation of the incision itself will only vary according to the part of the vessel to be tied, and may be higher or lower in its course. The head being now bent, the lips of the wound are opened wide. If the omo- hyoid muscle be in the way, it may be set aside ; or should this be not practicable, it may be divided on a director. The vein and artery are now seen enveloped in a very strong fibrous sheath. They are at once dis- tinguished from each other by their relative positions, as well as by their difference of colour, the one being a dark blue, the other a whitish yellow. As the vein, on account of the thinness of its coats, should be an object of especial care, the perforation of this tough sheath should be effected with a blunt instru- ment over the artery. This being done, the director is introduced, and the sheath laid open. If the internal jugular, from its being swollen with blood, should mask the artery, it should be compressed by the finger at the upper part of the wound, its fulness will be thus made to disappear. They are then sepa- rated, and the pneumo-gastric nerve is carried on the same side as the vein ; the needle is then passed from without, inwards, beneath the artery, and in doing this, care must be taken not to include the descendens noni which lies on its tracheal side. (For the de- tails of this operation, see No. 2, Fig. 81.) If the jugular vein were unfortunately wounded, the surgeon might pursue the same course as the late Mr. Simmons of Manchester, who placed a ligature upon it; or as Mr. Guthrie, who, in the case of another vein, pinched np the lips of the wound on its side, and tied them, thus leaving a portion of it still permeable ; or he may plug the whole solution of continuity. M. Sedillot has proposed another method of cutting on the artery at its lower part, by making an incision between the sternal and clavicular portions of the sterno-mastoid muscle. This incision exposes the vein and artery ; the latter is then isolated in the manner already described. This proceeding has not been as yet executed on the living body. In a case of carotid aneurism, in which the sac had burst into the oesophagus, and where the tumour was situated very low down, Dr. Robertson of Edinburgh operated by guiding the incision along the internal border of the sterno-mastoid muscle. No greater difficulty was encountered in the operation than might have been fairly expected to arise from the too limited extent of the external incision, which was but little more than an inch. The sterno-thyroid, and part of the sterno-hyoid muscles were divided transversely. A small prolongation of the sac was then seen between the carotid and the trachea. There was only space enough between the sac and the inno- minata to insert the end of the finger, so that the ligature was upon the carotid, within half ari inch of its origin from the brachio-cephalic trunk. The tumour had effected such a dis- placement of the neighbouring parts, that neither the veins, nor nerves were seen. The wound healed by granulation, the ligature being detached on the seventeenth day *. From the superficial situation of the ca- rotids it might be supposed that the diagnosis of aneurism in this vessel might be a matter of little difficulty. Some mistakes have, how- ever, occurred, which have been attended with fatal consequences. Scarpa mentions an instance in which a carotid aneurism was opened for an abscess ; and in another case mentioned by Harder, a patient died under the surgeon’s hands. The surgeon should, therefore, take all proper pains on this point, and pay strict attention to the rules by which two such different affections are to be dis- criminated. Long before the idea of placing a ligature on the carotid had been entertained, several cases had been observed in which the vessel was spontaneously obliterated; and one in- stance is recorded in which both carotids were obliterated. The first instance in which it appears to have been tied, occurs in Heben- streit’s Translation of B. Bell’s Surgery : in extirpating a scirrhous tumour, the carotid was wounded : the surgeon, to save the pa- tient’s life, immediately tied the vessel, and she lived many years afterwards. Abernethy was the next to perform this operation suc- cessfully ; and was followed by Fleming, a naval surgeon, who tied the wounded carotid in a sailor who attempted to commit suicide. Since that period the ligature of the carotids has become a common operation, and has been had recourse to in a very great variety of cases. In the extirpation of the lower jaw, or of large tumours in its vicinity, it has sometimes been employed as a preliminary proceeding. It has also been found success- ful in curing erectile tumours, or aneurisms by anastomosis, developed on various parts of the head and face. Mr. Travers tied the carotid in a case of this kind, in which, from the progress of the tumour, the eye was ex- truded from its socket ; the disease was per- fectly cured. Mr. Dalrymple treated a similar case in the same manner, and the termination was equally satisfactory. Arendt treated an- other case in this manner, and Mr. Wardrop pursued the same course in a case of aneurism by anastomosis of the eyeball in an infant. It has also been employed successfully in arrest- ing haemorrhage arising from ulcerations of the pharynx and larynx. The operation of tying the primitive carotid is applicable to aneurismal tumours developed superiorly to the point of ligation, and to those which occur in its subdivisions, the facial, temporal, and occipital, when compression is found unavail- ing ; while the absence of branches through- out a great part of its course, renders it pecu- liarly eligible for the application of Brasdors method in cases of aneurism of the innominata. ’ Dublin Journal of Medical Science, Ac., January, 1838.