437 ASPHYXIA. pression of the internal jugular veins pro- duced insensibility; and in the belief that when the carotid arteries were tied the person must fall asleep, these vessels obtained the name, at one time, of artcruc soporales. In John Bell’s anatomy, 1797, we read that the wildest and most barefaced tale that ever was told, is that delivered by a pupil of Realdus Columbus, named Valverdus, in his Anatomy of the Human Body. The carotid arteries (says Valverdus) being tied up, or any how obstructed, the person grows stupid, and falls presently into a profound sleep, This expe- riment I saw at Pisa in the year 1554. It was performed upon a young man by the ce- lebrated Columbus in the presence of a great many gentlemen and strangers, with no less misery to them than amusement to us (the pupils), who, though we knew the cause, as- cribed it altogether to the black art. Galen attributed death from hanging to the lesion of the pneumogastric nerves, and after his time it was generally supposed that death was oc- casioned by the pressure on the jugular veins preventing the return of blood transmitted by the carotid and vertebral arteries, and thereby producing apoplexy. An experiment was performed by the elder Monro, which proved most satisfactorily that death by hanging was produced by asphyxia. He made an opening in the trachea of a dog, and suspended the animal with a cord in such a manner that the opening was beneath it, and the air had free access to the lungs, as in respiration. He was suspended in this way for three quarters of an hour, during which time the circulation and respiration went on as usual, and he was then taken down. The cord was then re- moved, and applied below the opening in the trachea, so as to prevent the entrance of air to the lungs ; the animal was again suspended, and in a few minutes it died. The chief cause of death from suspension arises in consequence of the interruption of respiration ; the circum- stances which may accompany the application of the cord may materially affect the dura- tion of life in the individual suspended. The rope may be so placed above the larynx as not to occasion a perfect obliteration of the windpipe ; and in such cases the small supply of air may prolong the tortures of the being for some time, although incapable of main- taining life. Inexpertness of this kind, on the part of the executioner, together with the absence of the gallows of modern times, must doubtless have been the cause of the many recoveries from hanging, which are on record. We have had occasion to know, from authen- tic sources, the successful recovery of two individuals who had undergone the sentence ol the law, and whose bodies, after being sus- pended the usual time, were delivered over to their friends. In both cases the external jugular vein was opened, and frictions over the surface of the body and extremities were persevered in. A subscription was afterwards raised for one of them, and he was privately sent out of the country. Life may also be preserved in consequence of the larynx and trachea being ossified, a condition by no means unfrequent. A case of this kind is related in Dr. Plott’s Natural History of Staffordshire. In the reign of Henry VI. a woman, named Snetta de Bal- sham, after having undergone the sentence of the law, and being suspended an entire night, was cut down, and found to be still alive ; having owed her preservation to her larynx being ossified. This case was considered at the time to be so wonderful that she received her pardon. The injuries which may attend hanging, besides the exclusion of air from the lungs, must depend upon a variety of circum- stances ; such as the weight of the body, the length of the drop, the manner of fixing the rope, and so on. Besides the interruption to the respiration which takes place from hanging, there are in general some remarkable symptoms presented which show great disturbance in the sangui- ferous and nervous systems. The being strug- gles more or less (convulsions of the voluntary muscles), the vessels of the face and head are congested with livid blood, the eyes are pro- truded, and the conjunctivas are suffused, more or less mucus is in the mouth and nostrils, and the tongue is congested, and sometimes thrust out of the mouth. We have not ob- served any great distortion of the features. The sphincters relax, and the urine, and some- times the faeces, are passed involuntarily ; semi-erection of the penis occasionally takes place, and less frequently emission of semen. Mr. Houston, in the Dublin Hospital Re- ports, has given an interesting account of the effects of the rope on the necks of criminals who suffer death by hanging, at the examina- tion of two of which we were present. “ Both individuals were strong plethoric men, exe- cuted for murder of tradesmen of their own craft, under the combination system. Their death was evidently caused by strangu- lation. The cervical vertebrae were unbroken, and the spinal marrow and brain presented no marks of injury. In both the sterno-mastoid muscles on the right side (the opposite to that on which the knot of the rope was applied), were ecchymosed, contused, and broken ; those of the left side were only slightly bruised. The os-hyoides and thyroid cartilage were completely severed from each other. The omo-hyoid, sterno-hyoid, and thyro-hyoid muscles were so bruised and lacerated that only some stretched shreds of them remained to hold the parts together. The thyro-hyoid membrane was also torn across, and the epi- glottis, pulled from its roof at the back of the thyroid cartilage, had passed up with the os- hyoides and the tongue into the back part of the mouth ; the skin alone remained unbroken, and interposed between the rope and the cavity of the pharynx. This was the only region of the neck which gave evidence of much injury, the great vessels and nerves all escaped unhurt. On two other criminals, which more lately I have had an opportunity