EAR, AND HEARING, DISEASES OF. 15 was inferred from the circumstance that the patient perceived the usual feeling of disten- tion in the membrana tympani on making a forced expiration. The hearing of the right ear, which immediately after the injury was much deteriorated, came at last, as the patient affirmed, to be as good as the other. It is obvious that wounds like the above may not be limited to the membrana tympani, but implicate the parts contained in the tym- panum, and even extend to the labyrinth. Such a case will be related farther on. An important effect of inflammation of the membrana tympani is ulceration going on to perforation, or even total destruction. Be- sides ulceration, the other consequences of inflammation are opacity, thickening, vascula- rity, carunculous excrescences, polypi, &c. Sometimes plates of cartilage or bone are found in the membrana tympani, and this ac- companied or not with perforation. I found the following state of the mem- brana tympani of both sides, in a man aged about forty, who told me he had erysipelas of the face and ears about a year before, and that he remembered, while a boy at school, having some discharge for a short time from the left ear. His brother is deaf, and it is about six months since he discovered that he himself had become deaf. He hears the tick- ing of a watch with the right ear at the dis- tance of two and a half feet; with the left, at half an inch only. The auditory passages are wider and straighter than natural. At the anterior margin of both tympanic membranes there is a deposition, apparently in their substance, of a whitish tuberculous looking matter. The membranes in the rest of their extent are as transparent as usual, but they are as if too large for their frame, and are at present much forced inwards upon the inner wall of the tympanum. The shoulders of the mallei ap- pear in consequence to project more into the auditory passages, especially on the left side. Being directed to try to make a forced expi- ration with the nose and mouth closed, no effect took place; but on repeating the at- tempt, he felt the air enter the tympanum on both sides. The immediate consequence of this was, that the hearing was raised on the right side to four and a half feet; and on the left side to one foot ten inches. On examining the tympanic membranes after the inflation, they were found bulging outwards. This state was more marked in the half behind the handle of the malleus, espe- cially on the right side. On the left side the bulging was very irregular, as it were bagged. Large red vessels were seen streaming around the handle of the malleus on the left side. It was to be expected that such relaxed mem- branes would readily fall back towards the tympanum, accordingly it was found next day that all the improvement gained had not been retained, and that some slight pain had been felt on repeating the forced expirations at home. After an interval of a week, during which forced expirations were occasionally made, and a weak solution of the acetate of lead poured into the ears two or three times a day, the hearing distance of the right ear was found to be seven and a half feet, and of the left only half an inch, but, after a forced expiration, the hearing distance of the latter rose to one and a half foot. It is obvious that nothing could be done in this case but occa- sional inflation of the tympanum. Inflammation of the membrana tympani.— When the structure of the membrana tym- pani is considered, it will be readily under- stood how it should be more or less implicated in inflammation of the cavity of the tympanum, as well as in inflammation of the external auditory passage. On the other hand, it may itself be the original seat of inflammation, and that of an acute or chronic character ; and this inflammation may be afterwards followed by affection of the tympanum and auditory passage. Acute inflammation of the membrana tym- pani involves not only the membrana tympani but the fibrous structures around it. There is severe pain deep in the ear, not aggravated by the motions of the lower jaw, but by sneezing, coughing, and the like. A sensa- tion, as if an insect were in the ear, is some- times complained of. Hearing is considerably impaired, but at the same time sounds are painful, and there is buzzing in the ear. The auricle and outer part of the auditory passage remain unaffected, only the secretion of cerumen is suppressed. On examination, some parts of the walls of the auditory pas- sage in the immediate neighbourhood of the membrana tympani will be found red. The membrana tympani itself, at first of a dull yel- low colour and without its natural lustre, but by-and-by red, especially around its circum- ference, and in the situation of the handle of the malleus, which often cannot be recognised on account of the swollen state of the cuta- neous layer of the membrane. Acute inflammation of the membrana tym- pani is attended with general febrile disturb- ance, exacerbated towards evening. This inflammation may terminate by reso- lution. It is, however, apt to lead to more or less organic change, and to pass into the chronic form ; in which case a watery or puri- form discharge mixed with blood makes its appearance, the pain and noises in the ear re- mit, but the dulness of hearing increases, and the membrana tympani is perhaps found per- forated in one or more places, and to a greater or less extent. The perforations are usually towards the lower part, in front of the handle of the malleus. Chronic inflammation of the membrana tympani may not be preceded by the acute form above described, but come on impercep- tibly, or occur as the sequel of small-pox, measles, scarlatina, and other diseases of the skin. Cold is a common cause both of the acute and chronic form, and very readily