365 FRACTURE. but it will be most satisfactory to consider them as they occur simply. In examining a great variety of specimens of injury to the upper end of the femur, the first observation, that it occurs to me to make, refers to the comparative immunity from lesion of the articular surface ; which, though prone to diseases, is remarkably protected from in- juries. It is very rarely found, that a fissure traverses its cartilage, or even involves a mar- gin of the articular surface. The next general fact is, that two kinds of injury are to be distinguished ; namely, a more or less simple transverse division of the neck, caused mostly by alighting violently on the foot or knee; and a crushed or commi- nuted fracture, produced commonly by a late- ral blow on the trochanter, often with parts more or less impacted. Again, when repara- tion is observable, it is a palpable fact, that, in proportion as the fracture or any part of it is more or less near the articular surface, the bony callus and all the deposits of inflamma- tion are scanty or abundant. The several fractures of the neck of the thigh-bone much more frequently occur than dislocations of its head. By Dupuytren the order of the causes as to frequency is thus specified: 1. Falls on the trochanter. 2. Direct violence, such as that of a gun-shot. 3. Falls on the foot or knee. 4. Muscular action, as once reported to have occurred in tetanus. The relative frequency of the accident from falls upon the trochanter, according to Desault’s experience, was twenty-four out of thirty cases. A slip off the edge of the foot pavement is observed by Sir A. Cooper to be the most common cause of the accident in London ; but this observation probably refers to his hospital practice, and therefore to more able-bodied persons than those numerous sub- jects of this kind of injury, who occupy our poor-houses, &c. Sir A. Cooper remarks, that a fracture with- in the capsular ligament seldom occurs but in advanced life; and he ascribes it to the inter- stitial absorption that then takes place in this part of the femur, and to the alteration of its angle with the shaft, that happens in indivi- duals at that period of life. The patients under Sir A. Cooper and Dupuytren with this accident were almost all of them above fifty years of age, and the frequency of the accident they found to in- crease with the increase of age. Dupuytren notices also how rarely such an accident oc- curs in young persons, and that in his whole practice he never met with the accident in a child. Dupuytren also considers that some of the cases in children, supposed to have been fractures of the neck of the thigh-bone, may possibly have been separations of the epiphy- sis. In the museum at Guy’s Hospital is a specimen of fracture of the neck, involving the trochanters, in a child about nine years of age ; but even in this the reparation is quite deficient near the head, although abundant below. Fracture of the neck of the thigh- bone is rare in adults under a certain age, but not so uncommon as in children. Women of advanced age are more frequently the sub- ject of these fractures than men of a like period of life. The different degrees of frequency with which these fractures occur, at different pe- riods of life, and in the two sexes, may be as- cribed to differences of anatomical and other circumstances. Thus, in childhood, the axis of the neck approaches that of the shaft, and the trochanter then forms but a slight projection; it is also then concealed under the prominence of the os innominatum, which, therefore, pro- tects it in falls upon the side of the pelvis. The diminutive breadth of the pelvis, the greater flexibility of the neck of the thigh- bone, and the adipose and cellular tissue co- vering the trochanter, are also protective in the child. In adults of a certain age, the mass and solidity of bone has increased everywhere in the skeleton, the neck of the femur has be- come longer, and the angle formed with the shaft of the bones has also become more con- siderable. In advanced life, the width of the pelvis is still extreme; the neck of the thigh is at a right angle with the shaft; the tro- chanter is very prominent; the organization of the bone is diminished, and it is rendered brittle, by the increase of the phosphate of lime, or, rather, by a process of atrophy. The greater frequency of the accident in age is fur- ther influenced by the diminished size and pro- minence of the muscles ; and the decrease in the quantity of the adipose and cellular tissue. The very liability to fall, and on the trochan- ter in particular, is, in a degree, peculiar to old age, and its want of alertness. The greater frequency of these fractures in women is as- cribed by Dupuytren to the neck of the fe- mur being longer, and to the trochanter being more prominent; and the size and prominence of the muscles, which deaden a fall when it occurs, being less in this sex than in the other, increases their liability. Dupuytren also remarks, considerable emaciation to be oftener present in aged women than in men ; and that there is a greater brittleness in their osseous texture; and he states that when the general conformation of men, in the breadth of the pelvis, the length of the neck of the femur, and the projection of the trochanter, more resembles that of women, their liability to these accidents is similarly conspicuous. He asserts, indeed, that there is a direct ratio between this accident and the degree of pro- minence of the trochanter, the length of the neck of the femur, and its angle with the body of the bone ; all which we know may vary with the time of life, the sex, and the individual. When, however, as often occurs, the violence which causes these fractures is slight, we must attribute much to the enfee- bled state of the bone itself, in which it will probably be found the whole skeleton partici- pates.