ANGEIOLEUCITIS. 288 but most commonly it does not become ma- nifest until the fifteenth or twentieth. It is also from the eighth to the twentieth day, that death is observed to take place. Beyond this period it seldom occurs till after the thir- tieth or fortieth day, when induration may take place, and when internal collections, the contamination of the blood, and diarrhoea, are more especially to be feared. These details, which I have taken from the attentive observation of a great number of cases, show clearly that angeioleucitis is a disease of sufficient gravity to excite the deep- est solicitude on the part of the practitioner. The dangers to which it exposes vary, how- ever, according to an infinity of circumstances, relative to the importance of the part affected, to its superficiality or depth, to the nature of the morbific principle which has produced the disease, and to the peculiar disposition of each patient. It must be obvious, all other con- ditions being alike, that the disease must be more serious when situated in the splanchnic cavities, than on the surface of the body ; that it must be less dangerous when confined to the integuments, than when it extends through the entire thickness of a limb ; the presence of a wound must also render it more formidable. When the disease is caused by the absorption of a septic principle, as for in- stance, in a dissecting wound, it is most dan- gerous. In other respects, the more serious the lesion from which it arises, the greater will be the danger; whenever it originates from a deep compound fracture, an articula- tion that has been opened, or a purulent cavity situated in the midst of tendons, &c., it always puts the life of the patient in more or less jeopardy ; whilst the form of the disease which occurs in connexion with a solution of continuity of the integuments, or of the sub- cutaneous tissue is generally more disposed to terminate favourably. It may be observed, therefore, that the angeioleucitis that arises in the intestines in the course of typhus fever, in the bronchi from measles, in the uterus from metro-peritonitis is infinitely more for- midable than that which takes place after the application of leeches, or the small wounds in- flicted in cupping. In infancy, it is more prone to terminate in induration than in death. In the adult, its most common termi- nation is in suppuration. In persons debilita- ted by illness, or of advanced age, the conse- quences most to be dreaded, and which render the disease so very serious, are low fever, gangrene, &c. We may also add, that its dangers depend, moreover, on the circum- stances that may complicate the primitive affection, and that, in consequence, nothing can be more difficult, than to generalize the prognostic of angeioleucitis. Differential diagnostic.—We may observe once more, if the inflammation of the lym- hatic vessels has been so much overlooked itherto, the reason is simply this : that some of its symptoms have a close resemblance to those of several other affections ; such, for instance, as phlebitis, neuritis, or neuralgia, erysipelas, and phlegmon. However, as it differs in a great many respects from these lesions, a clear examination of its principal symptoms ought to enable us to avoid such mistakes. It is the more important to esta- blish a differential diagnostic, as, in regard to the prognostic and treatment, there can be scarcely any analogy established between it, and the other forms of inflammation that so closely resemble it; and, as it can only be by proceeding in this manner, that the confusion which still prevails in the therapeutics of the inflammations of an acute character, can be dispelled. In this point of view, therefore, it is of especial importance to contrast it with phlebitis and erysipelas. Phlebitis, it is true, is produced by the same causes, and under the same influences as angeioleucitis, but its progress and anatomical characters are far from being in every respect similar. It is most commonly ushered in by purely local symptoms, instead of commencing by a movement of general reaction. The red bands which indicate it are larger, fewer, less frequently crossed, more deeply seated, and correspond to so many hard, round, moveable cords, which are painful, and sometimes as thick as the finger. The red patches, when any exist, rest on nuclei that are more clearly defined, less deep, and less adherent ; and they seldom become united in such a manner as to constitute a tolerably regular erysipelas. The suppuration occurs more rapidly, and the abscesses thus formed are either diffused, as in phlegmonous erysipelas, or less full of mat- ter than might be supposed before they were opened. The pus evacuated from them in the latter case is often reddish, and seems as if it were mixed with decomposed blood. They are sometimes very numerous, but smaller; and they are almost always deve- loped along the tracks of the large venous trunks, but not dispersed indifferently through- out the different regions of a limb. The tumefaction is, in general, less, and does not extend to the entire thickness, or to the whole circumference of the part, unless the phlebitis be deep-seated, and in that case, the redness of the skin, and the subcutaneous ab- scesses have no resemblance whatever to those produced by angeioleucitis. The skin is neither tense nor shining; it seems rather thickened, or simply inflamed. If infiltration be added to the inflammatory engorgement, it remains, almost constantly, below that degree of it w'hich might cause it to be mistaken for oedema; it seems to be rather under the skin, and to possess that character of doughy- ness w'hich indicates in the diffused phlegmon the presence of pus. As soon as they are opened, the abscesses of phlebitis empty themselves, and resolution takes place rapidly without leaving any permanent traces of in- duration beneath them. In general, the lym- phatic ganglions are neither swollen nor pain- ful, and the pain, instead of being severe, is dull.