ABDOMEN. 9 behind the omental vessels, being the second layer (s) of the great omentum ; at the point (t) when the exterior layers form a cul de sac, it also changes its direction and ascends as the third layer (;<), until it arrives at the trans- verse colon (C), the anterior surface of which ('v) it covers ; from hence it passes loosely to the spine, forming the superior layer (w) of the transverse meso-colon; as the inferior layer (i) of this transverse meso-colon turns downwards from this point, and became fixed, so this superior layer (.r) turns upwards and becomes fixed, it being adherent to the ante- rior surface of the pancreas (P), from which, in fine, it passes to the right crus of the dia- phragm, the point at which the description commenced. After thus tracing the peritoneum, as it suspends and attaches the abdominal organs, we may return to the regionary divisions, and enumerate rapidly the organs appertain- ing to each ; the value of this mode of study- ing the cavity will now be apparent, as the correctness of our diagnosis in lesions of these organs, will often depend on our ability to point out their precise positions. In the epigaster, we find the largest por- tion of the left lobe of the liver, the lobulus spigelii, the right portion of the stomach with the pylorus, the first and second divisions of the duodenum, the pancreas, and upper part of the great omentum, the vena porta, the splenic and superior mesenteric veins, the vena cava, the aorta, and cceliac axis, and around them, the large solar plexus, the great centre of the nerves of organic life, forming, as Cruveilhier happily expresses it, in itself “ an abdominal brain,” the vicinity of which to the scrobiculus cordis, may account for the exquisite sensitiveness with which in some individuals this point is endowed, and the sense of pulsation, fluttering or sinking, which are sometimes ascribed to the existence of an aneurism, or to some organic affection of the liver or stomach. We find also the trans- verse arch of the colon ; and at the back part of the region, a portion of the vertebral column and thoracic duct. The right hypochondrium is filled by the liver, the gall-bladder, the angle formed by the first and second portions of the duode- num, a portion of the vena cava above, and the upper extremity of the right kidney below. This organ may be explored, under the car- tilaginous edges of the false ribs. The left hypochondrium contains the great cul de sac of the stomach, its cardiac orifice, with the pneumo-gastric nerves spread out upon it, a small prolongation of the left lobe of the liver, and the spleen attached to the stomach, by the gastro-splenic epiploon, the tail of the pancreas, and a portion of the arch of the colon, as it is continued to the de- scending colon. In the enlargements, either of the spleen or liver, these organs project from beneath the edges of the ribs. The spleen is sometimes so enlarged as to descend to the iliac region. This condition is observed more particularly after long standing intermittent fever, and is known under the name of ague- cake. Whenever such enlargement of either of these viscera occurs, they may be felt be- yond the range of the hypochondria. Under these circumstances, they will of course be much more liable to rupture from falls or blows, than when they enjoy the protection of the ribs. In the foetus, and even after birth, the liver, from being relatively larger than it is in the adult, is exposed to rupture from the deficiency of this protection. The umbilical region is occupied by the great omentum, the convolutions of the small intestines, with its mesentery including its lymphatic ganglia, lacteals, and blood-vessels, the vena cava, and abdominal aorta, and the vertebral column. In the right and left lumbar or renal re- gions, are seen the ascending colon for the right, and the descending for the left, a por- tion of the convolutions of the small intes- tines, and behind the colon, the kidney, and a portion of one ureter for each of the re- gions. The hypogastric region shelters the infe- rior convolutions of the small intestines, the pelvic portions of the ureters, and deep in the excavation of the pelvis, the bladder in man, the bladder and uterus with its appendages in the female, in both the rectum. The right and left iliac regions contain (the right") the caecum with its appendix, and the commencement of the colon, forming by their continuation with each other, the ilio-caecal valve, the bifurcations of the aorta and vena cava; (the left) the sigmoid flexure of the colon, and commencement of the rectum. In cases of imperforation of the anus, or of alvine concretions blocking up the rectum, it has been proposed by Monro the Second to open the abdominal wall of this region with a view to the formation of an artificial anus. Mr. Pring performed this operation in a case of schir- rhous rectum. M. Duret, in a case of imper- forate anus, arrived at the S of the colon in this manner, carrying it out through the lips of the external incision, for the purpose of esta- blishing an artificial anus. It appears, he open- ed the peritoneum ; an inconvenience which he might have very easily avoided by reaching the intestine, and opening it on the posterior surface. This operation differs from that of Callisen, which attacked the colon higher up, and from the back part of the lumbar region. It is through an opening in this region also, that the iliac arteries are tied. Some of the ablest surgeons, Abernethy amongst others, recommend the incisions to be made in an oblique direction from the groin to the flanc, in order to avoid wounding the epigastric and circumflex arteries. We should now consider the relations of the peritoneum to the contained organs, some of which it loosely suspends, while it firmly binds down others. With respect to the mode of these attachments, they may be di- vided into three orders; namely, organs that are fixed, organs that are floating, and a third class in which these two qualities are for the