CATARACT. 733 of the nature of the cataract, the circum- stances of the patient, and the principles above established from experience. The qualifications necessary on the part of the surgeon for performing these operations, have been well summed up by Mr. Liston. “ The operator,” he says, “ must have a good eye, a steady, light, and skilful hand, a fine touch, courage and caution ; qualifications ne- cessary in all surgical operations, and in none more so than in those on the eye1.” It is only further necessary to remark, before concluding this subject, that the absence of the crystalline lens from the axis of vision, has a material effect in altering the refraction of the rays of light. As the refracting power of the lens is entirely of a physical nature, sim- ply concentrating the luminous rays which enter the eye, the defect from its absence can be made up or compensated by the use of a double convex lens worn externally. Hence individuals who have been successfully ope- rated on for cataract, generally require to wear glasses of a considerable magnifying power. They in general require glasses of two degrees of strength ; the one of lowest power, for viewing distant objects, which is generally a lens of six or seven inches focus, the other, and stronger of the two, for view- ing near objects, as in reading or writing, re- quires to be about two and a half or three inches focus. Those individuals, however, who have been previously short-sighted, re- quire no glasses, the previous defect in their sight being compensated by the absence of the lens. Bibliography.—A.Petil, in Memoires de l’Acad. Royale des Sciences, Annee 1708. Amsterdam, 17.50. Sharp, On Catavact, in Philosophical Trans- actions, vol. xlviii. London, 1/53. Warners Cases in Surgery. London, 1/84. G. Chandler, Treatise on Cataract. London, 1775. P. Putt, On Cataract, &c. London, 1775. Ludwig, De Suffusionis per Acum Curatione. Lips. 1/83. J. Wathan, On the theoiy and cure of the Cataract. London, 1/85.—On the treatment of patients after the operation for Cataracts; an appendix to his work on Fistula lacrymalis. Lon- don, 1792. Willlmrgh, Betrachtung iiber die bishero gewoohnlichen OperationendesStaars. Nurnberg,l / 85. Wenzel, Traite do la Cataractc. _ Paris, 1786; ditto, translated by Ware. London, 1/91. Paviel, Mem. de l’Acad. Royale de Chirurgic, tome v. Paris, 1787. Sur une nouvellc methode de guerir la Cata- ractc par l’extraction. Richter, On the extraction of Cataract; translated from the German. London, 1797. Conreulc, Vorschlag 7.u einer einfachen Me- thode den Staarzu stechen. In Arnamann’s Magazin fur die Wundartzneywisscnschaft. Bd. i. st. i., 1797. liimltj. On the Dilatation of thePupil with Hyoscyamus, &c. ‘ In Ophthalmologische Beobachtungen. Bre- men, 1801. Sir James Earle, Account of new mode of Operation for the removal of Cataract. London, 1801. ./. A. Schmidt, Ueber Iritis und Nachstaar, &c. Wien, 1801. Hey, Practical Observations in Surgery. London, 1803. Pott, Chirurgical IVorks. London, 1808. —On Cataract. London, 1775. A. WewhoLTs Anlictung zur Reclination des granen Staars met del*. Kapsel, 1809. Ruehhom de Kcrato- nyxide. Ilala;, 1806.—De Keratonyxide nova cataracta aliisque ocnlorum morbis medendi methodo chi- lurgiea. Marburg, 1810.—Die Kerutyonixas cine nenc ' Elements of Surgery, vol. ii. p. 125. gefahrlosere Methode du granen Staar zu opereren, &c. Magdeburg, 1811. Lanyenbech, Priifang der Keratonyxis. Gottcngen, 1811. D. Gibson, Practical Observations on the Formation of an Artificial Pupil, to which are annexed, Remarks on the Extraction of soft Cataracts, &c. London, 1811. Also, On the use of the Couching-needle in Infants a few months old. In Edin. Med. Surg. Journal; vol. 7. Edinburgh, 1811. J. C. Saunders, Treatise on some points re- lating to the Diseases of the Eye. London, 1811. A. Jacob, On a Cataract Needle. In Dublin LIosp. Rep. vol. iv. Dublin, 1827. W. Soemmerring Beo- bachtungen uber die organischen Veranderungen irn Ange nach Staar operationen. Frankfort on Main, 1828. /'. Jaeger, De Keratonyxide. Vienna, 1812. G. J. Guthrie, On the certainty and safety of the Operation for extracting the Cataract. London, 1834. Sanson, Lecons ser les Maladies des Yeux, faites a l’Hopital de la Pitic, recueillies et publiees par A. Bandinett et J. B Pilgni. Paris, 1837. F. Pauli, Ueber den granen Staar und die Verkrummunger. Stuttgart, 1838.—See farther Bibliography of the Arti- cle EYE. (Alexander Watson.) EXPLANATION OF THE FIGURES. Fig. 1. a. The aqueous humour.—b. Ciliary ligament, root of iris, and anterior part of vitreous humour.—- c. Lens.—d. Vitreous humour. Fig. 2. 1. Form of lens at infancy.—2. Ditto at seven years.—3. Ditto of adult.—4. Ditto at old age. Fig. 3. Spontaneous solid lenticular cataract from an elderly patient. Fig. 4. Ditto, having a radiated appearance. Fig. 5. Capsido-lenticular cataract; the parts most opaque are where the capsule is opaque. Fig. 6. Glaucoma resembling cataract from the opaque appearance of the humours of the eye. Fig. 7. Lens rendered opaque by a blow on the eye, a few days previously, from a small branch of a tree. There was no wound of the eye ,* the lens must there- fore have been displaced, and its capsule ruptured at the centre, where a portion of the substance of the lens is projecting. Fig. 8. Exhibits the appearance of the eye, after the capsule and lens had been torn and cut in pieces, and pushed into the anterior chamber with a needle. The substance of the lens presented, a Jlocculent appearance, but became dissolved by the aqueous humour in a few weeks. Fig. 9. Adventitious cataract from lymph occupying the pupil. Fig. 10. Lenticular cataract, in which the centre is more opaque than the rest, and has the form of a star. Fig. 11. Capsular congenital cataract, where the lens had been spontaneously absorbed from a child. Fig. 12. Shreds of capsule opaque, forming secondary capsular cataract, after an operation which broke up the lens, and made it dissolve, from a child. Fig. 13. Shreds of opaque capsule on surface of vitreous humour, after operationsfor the, removal of the opaque lens.—Fig. 14. The same; both from young men. In these two last figures, the pupils are represented, us dilated with belladonna. Before the pupils were so dilated, in fig. 13, only two white lines were seen crossing the pupil; in fig. 14, none of the opaque parts were visible. Fig. 15. Beer's cataract needle. Fig. 16. Scarpa's ditto. Fig. 17. Dr. Jacob's ditto. Fig. 18. Curette and David's spoon on one handle. Fig. 19. Blunt-pointed knife for enlarging the section of the cornea when made too small. Fig. 20. Represents a cataract needle introduced into the eye. Fig. 21. A diagram, showing the positions of the lens after displacement. Fig. 22. Represents the act of making the section of the cornea for extraction of cataract. Fig. 23. Represents, by a diagram, the state of the eye when the. incision of the cornea has been completed.