FRACTURE. 255 show how the adventitious cartilaginous deposit is placed on the outer side of that membrane, between it and the aponeurosis of the muscles, which is delineated by a white line. It may also be observed that the pe- riosteum is slightly separated from the shaft of the bone, and between them a deposition of coagulable lymph has been poured out; not presenting, however, the same degree of vascularity as the deposition on the outer side of the periosteum, as indeed might be expected from the less degree of vitality of the inter- vening structures. The fibrin inclosing the cancelli was firmly adherent to the medullary membrane ; and small specks of earthy mutter were seen deposited upon its interior surface. “ The section through the callus, it is to be observed, has not in a similar manner exposed the surface of the interior fractured portion of the bone, in consequence of its having been drawn to a plane posterior to the upper portion ; but it showed the high degree of vas- cularity of the callus, where attached to the perios- teum ; and some small specks of earthy matter were seen deposited upon it. The upper and lower portions of the bone in this preparation were much nearer parallel than in any former experiment, and in every respect exhibited a further progress toieards ossific Fig. 283. Fig. 282. thus takes the place before occupied by the medulla. It is even said that the plug thus formed in the cavity of the bone, soon passes into cartilage, and then into bone, becoming confounded at the frac- ture with the viscid, gelatinous, or floccu- lent substance, which is interposed between the fragments, and which loses itself in the exterior callus. During this period, the fragments still admit of some motion with re- spect to one another, but it is seldom that any crepitus can be produced. 3. The third period extends from the twen- tieth or twenty-fifth day to the thirtieth, fortieth, or sixtieth, ac- cording- to the vigour Fig. 282 is taken from Part 2, fig. 1, plate 1, of Mr. Bransby Cooper's paper—A rabbit's femur broken twelve days. “ It exhibits in section the effusion of a great quantity of cartilage, particularly from the fractured extremities of the bone, which are brought more than usually in a direct line towards each other. Spedis of earthy matter were seen deposited in the centre of the cartilage, more or less surrounded by numerous small blood-vessels. A point in the upper fractured half showed the appearance of a small detached portion of bone undergoing a change, about either to be absorbed, or if not entirely deprived of its vascularity, to become a nucleus for further ossific deposition. A softening down of the centre of the curtilage teas also to be observed, as tvell as a highly vascular hollow in the lower extremity of the bone, while the epiphysis was unaltered." of the reparative pro- cess, which depends on the age, the con- stitution, and the health of the patient. The substitution of a material closely re- sembling cartilage, for the fibro-cartilage of the preceding period, now takes place from within outwards; and is soon followed by the deposition of os- seous matter. By de- grees, the whole callus becomes osseous, and presents the charac- ters of the spongy bone, and covered by a thick periosteum. The muscles and ten- dons acquire increased freedom, but are still clogged in their move- ments by the indu- ration of the tissues around them. If, at this time, we saw the Fig. 283 is taken from Part 2, fig. 3, plate 2, of Mr. Bransby Cooper's paper. “ It represents the thigh- bone of a cat, broken six weeks, in which it may be observed that there is but little obliquity in the direction of the thigh-bone, although the two extremities overlap to a considerable extent. The vascularity of the con- necting medium was evidently derived from the me- dullary membrane of each portion of bone, especially from the lower. The membrane covering the new car- tilaginous deposit was very vascular, and softer than the periosteum of the femur, which still retained its na- tural fibrous texture ; and this proves the non-identity of the two membranes. The extremity of each frac- tured portion is represented closed by cartilage and newly-deposited bone of considerable firmness; and the compact structure of the femur, in contact with the newly-deposited cartilage, clearly exhibits some inter- stitial absorption, beautifully illustrating the active pa rt it is notv capable of maintaining in the repara- tion of the injury." callus through the middle, in the direction of the axis of the bone, we find the fragments still moveable on one another, the substance of a gelatinous or flocculent character already mentioned as separating them, having not yet sensibly changed its condition. 4. The fourth period is included between the fiftieth or sixtieth day and the fifth or sixth month. The callus passes from the state of spongy to that of compact tissue. The medullary canal is completely obliterated by the upper and lower plug, now converted into tolerably compact bone; and the substance directly between the fragments loses its former characters, acquires consistence, be- comes pale ; and, towards the end of this period, its place is occupied by bone, which forms the definitive or permanent callus.