287 ANGEIOLEUCITIS. ing from the infection of the blood. The development, fulness, and frequency of the pulse, the heat and high colour of the skin, and the thirst, belong to the first; the rigors, agitation, nausea, and the state of the mouth, to the second. When the inflammation runs high, and is extensive, the vascular reaction is at. first very considerable. The ganglions, and the obliterated vessels impede, it is true, the admission of pus, or of an irritating prin- ciple into the blood, but do not absolutely prevent it in all cases. So long as the circu- lation in the lymphatics is carried on, it is almost impossible that some portion of the fluids vitiated by the angeioleucitis shall not find way into the veins; and I am only astonished that the fact could be dis- puted. It cannot, however, be denied, that this infection takes place very slowly, and, as it were, by molecules; and hence it is, that the symptoms which indicate it are, at first, in a manner lost, or confounded in the midst of the symptoms of inflammatory reaction ; whilst, at a later period, they often become predominant. Termination and prognostic.—The inflamma- tion of the lymphatic vessels may terminate in resolution ; but suppuration is one of its very common consequences; it also terminates often in death. Resolution may be confi- dently looked for when the inflammation ex- tends to but a few vessels, and when it has not gone beyond the superficial plan. The same may be said of the cases in which the parts where the inflammation has become de- veloped are of a nature to cause its prompt subsidence, or to admit of its being easily ac- cessible to the resources of art. When the circumstances are different, suppuration is almost inevitable ; it must be expected to supervene whenever the red patches are numerous, and have a tendency to run into each other, and when beneath them, painful cores of a certain thickness can be felt. The suppuration, however, takes place slowly, and is found in two different states, either in that of infiltration, or as a collection of variable extent. The pus remains infiltrated under the red streaks, along the vessels, and between the layers of muscles. The abscesses occur more particularly under the patches, and in such a manner that the principal inflamed nuclei form the centres of so many purulent collections. Sometimes, also, the abscess is large, and the matter is diffused as in the case of a phlegmonous erysipelas. But whether these abscesses be superficial or deep-seated, the fluctuation is not felt in them till an ad- vanced period, and when opened, the quantity of pus which escapes is much more consider- able than could have been expected from the apparent extent of the tumefaction. There is generally more than one, and the first col- lection is merely the precursor of several others, which occur in succession, at intervals of a few days, and at different points. I have in this way seen as many as twenty-five in the same individual. They are surrounded by a pasty, or hardened edge; but it does not remain so long as in the case of a common phlegmonous abscess. In the cavity, neither bands nor partitions can be detected, and al- though the pus contained is usually very fluent and thin, the secretion soon ceases, and the parts cicatrize rapidly. The termination by induration without suppuration is rather uncommon, and occurs almost exclusively in chronic angeioleucitis. M. Alard’s description of it is tolerably cor- rect. Some cases of this form of the disease have been since published by physicians who have devoted their attention in a special man- ner to the diseases of the skin. It occurs after the acute form of the disease, only acci- dentally, as for instance when some constitu- tional taint, or an imperfect treatment may have disturbed the progress of the symptoms. In this case, the lymph which remains in the state of infiltration in the meshes of the cellu- lar tissue i3 but slightly altered, and suffi- ciently concrescible to have a constant ten- dency to combine with the tissues which it has swollen, or hypertrophied, and which it transforms into lardaceous layers or masses. Angeioleucitis may terminate in death, either at the time when the inflammatory re- action is at its height, or towards the end, when the suppuration is prolonged. It may be apprehended, in the first case, when high delirium, a dry mouth, and nausea accompany an extensive inflammation, which continues unabated till the eighth or tenth day. It may also be dreaded in the case where the inflam- mation is extensive, deep, and severe, more especially in an individual of broken constitu- tion, or advanced age, and when the suppura- tion threatens from the first to be vast and abundant. At a later period, the fatal termi- nation is brought on by the recurrence of the abscesses, through the exhaustion arising from the abundance of the purulent secretion, from the occurrence of fresh attacks of the disease in the viscera, or from effusion into the serous cavities, and vitiation of the blood, by its mix- ture with the pus, or absorbed substances. Rigors, with decomposition of the features, intermittent fever, diarrhoea, irregular sweats, meteorization of the abdomen, pain or uneasi- ness in the head or chest, are the usual pre- ludes to it. On the whole, the progress and duration of angeioleucitis are extremely variable ; in some instances, it is developed so rapidly that on the eighth day there can be no longer a doubt as to the formation of pus ; in others, the progress is so slow, that even on the twentieth day, there is no saying with cer- tainty how it will terminate. In some indi- viduals its phases are perfectly regular from beginning to end, whilst in others, all the groups of symptoms are graduated and distri- buted as if they belonged to several distinct and successive inflammations. When resolu- tion takes place, it may be looked for from the fourth to the tenth day. The suppuration may be established as early as the eighth day,