BLOOD-LETTING. 477 by M. Brctonneau, is the interposing, between the blister anil the skin, a single sheet of fine tissue paper, through which the vesicating principle (cantharadine), from its solubility in oil, easily acts ; and all the evils which result from the absorption of the cantharides are pre- vented. Strangury scarcely ever occurs ; and it will be found, that in many cases of disease, this mode of blistering may be used at a much earlier period than under the old system. It is necessary to proceed cautiously with blisters in young subjects ; they should never be left on longer than six or eight hours, and never irritated with acrid dressings. Mr. Lawrence mentions his having seen fatal mortification to ensue, from a neglect of these precautions. It should, moreover, be borne in mind, that the operation of blisters is very different in differ- ent individuals, as regards their susceptibility. The irritation and discharge of an efficient blister as big as a crown will sink the powers of a delicate female for days. Ifitbethe intention to rouse the patient from a state of profound lethargy or coma, we must, after incising the surface, or even with- out this precaution, lay hold of the dead cuticle and remove it with a brisk pull. Then the pain caused by the contact of the air, and lint with the denuded nervous papillae of the corium, will produce a powerfully stimulant and revellent effect. When, on the contrary, it is desirable to spare the feelings of the patient, we simply incise the vesicle in a cir- cular manner to give issue to the accumulated serum, and place gently upon the shrivelled cuticle a soft compress thinly spread with fresh and well washed lard or cerate, which may be warmed a little, to render it more congenial. The vesicle being thus partially evacuated, we facilitate the discharge of the remaining fluid by puncturing the unopened portions of the epidermis, and proceed as described. In this way the dressing is accomplished without annoying the patient. Where undue com- pression has been employed, or the patient nas been very restless, the vesicle will be found ruptured, and the flaccid epidermis separated from the rete mucosum by a layer of concrete albumen. The oil-silk dressing may be used with ad- vantage for blistered surfaces. An American writer has suggested the use of finely carded cotton, which has also been found to answer well'. Although intermittent revulsion be more efficacious than permanent, yet there are par- ticular instances in which it is expedient to maintain for some time the discharge from the blistered surface. For this purpose, it may be dressed twice daily with the ceraluin sabince, or unguentum cantharidis. The latter is how- 1 The late Dr. Wm. Young of Glasgow was in the habit of applying this material. He assured the editor, that if the blister were removed when rubcfaction was produced, and the cotton then applied, the vesication Would follow equally well, with but little pain com- paratively. In blistering young subjects he always had recourse to this plan. ever prone to excite strangury and vesical irritation. The French employ paper impreg- nated with the active principle of mezereon (papier epispastique d garou J ; and a pharma- ceutical chemist in Paris, named Le Perdriel, has prepared a kind of fine oil-silk imbued with the same substance, which he calls his taffetas epispastique. For the first dressing the taffetas is to be smeared over with a thin layer of cerate or fresh butter, but this may be dispensed with afterwards; it should ex- tend for about a quarter of an inch beyond the secreting surface, and be renewed once in the twenty-four hours. The sore ought neither to be sponged nor wiped dry. Should it become torpid and covered with a whitish plastic exudation, a more active preparation of the mezereon is substituted ; if, on the other hand, it become painful from any cause, as from a blow, the exercise of two great pres- sure, or irritant unguents, poultices may be applied at night, and the oil-silk dressing during the day. In some instances the secretion becomes so acid as to corrode the margins of the sore, which enlarges indefinitely, and is attended with lively inflammation and intolerable itching. Here the edges of the sore are to be encircled with a zone of fine oil-silk, while the centre of the sore may be dressed as described. By gradually diminishing the size of the aperture formed by the zone of oil-silk, we can pro- gressively suppress the discharge ; a point of some importance when of long standing. When that is superabundant, we have merely to pierce a number of holes in the taffetas, so as to allow its absorption by the compress, which consists of very soft, smooth, white bibulous paper. When luxuriant granulations form, they may be kept under by touching them with sulphate of copper or nitrate of silver, or dusting them with the powder of calcined alum, and exercising a slight degree of pres- sure. In the event of sloughing, an excellent plan is, to pencil over the part with a solution of silver (gr. x — 9i to the Ji), and then apply a warm poultice, as much pain attends the ap- plication. To obviate gangrene, fermenting cataplasms are to be employed, the patient at the same time being supported by nutritious diet, in conjunction with quinine and diffusible stimulants. There is an ingenious contrivance for ban- daging, which I have 3een in Paris. It con- sists of a light shield, made of thin plated metal, or gum-elastic tissue, to one side of which a band of the caoutchouc web is at- tached, provided at its extremity with a clasp, which fastens to the other side of the shield. These are called, according to the part to which they are adapted, serre-bras, serrc-cuisses, &c., and are used to contain blisters, issues, &c. (.Alexander TJre.') BLOOD-LETTING, missio sanguinis, Lat.; saignee, Fr. ; Aderlass, Ger. In this