32\ FRACTURE. inflammation, the quantity and solidity of the uniting matters, and the thickness of the broken ends, may all serve as material indi- cations of what is to be expected and pro- moted. The same applies to the degree in which the ends overlap each other, the extent and variety of their motions, and the presence or absence of perceptible grating when the parts are moved, which precludes the suppo- sition of mere ligamentous union. There are a few cases of ligamentous union, as in the ends of long bones, which are so undistin- guishable during life as to require no notice in this place. The treatment of false joints will be satisfac- tory in proportion as we are able to distin- guish the conditions and desiderata of each particular case. Sometimes, the injury hav- ing been inflicted but recently, the treatment having been irregular, the health of the patient interrupted, or some other incident, induces us to regard the case as merely one of tardy union. Under these circumstances we must, of course, re-apply the splints, &c. with the greatest care, and use every precaution to keep the fragments in a state of close coapta- tion. In many cases these measures will suc- ceed ; but in some, after a persevering trial of them, we shall find that no progress towards consolidation has been made, and that a false joint has been formed at the fracture. When this occurrence takes place in the upper extre- mity, the usefulness of the member is seri- ously impaired ; but the evil must obviously be of far greater magnitude, when the false joint forms in the lower extremity. “ Cases1 of pseudarthrosis sometimes occur which occasion so little inconvenience as scarcely to interfere with the use of the parts in which they may be situated ; and under such circumstances, it is more than doubtful whether any operative means should be recommended for their cure. In the Nou- velles de la Republique des Lettres, of Bayle, a case is recorded by Sylvestre, in which an ununited fracture of the fore-arm, four inches above the wrist, in no way prevented good use of the limb. Kuhnholtz (Journ. Com- plementaire, iii.) has given an instance in which an ununited fracture, situated in the thigh, interfered but little with the use of the limb. MM. Sanson (Velpeau, Medecine Ope- ratoire, i. p. 599, ed. 1839) and Yvan (Ar- chives Gen. de Med. xix. p. 619) have seen like cases. A patient came under the notice of M. Cloquet (Archives Gen. de Med. xix.), in whom the upper fourth of the humerus had been lost, without in any way interfering with the motions of the arm. M. Velpeau (Gorre, These, No. 218, 1835,) noticed some years since, at La Pitie, a man with an ununited fracture of the clavicle, in whom all the 1 We are again compelled to make use of the researches of Dr. Norris ; as forming the best founda- tion within our reach, for somewhat more extended and defined views of the nature and treatment of false joints. VOL. II. movements of the arm were executed without difficulty. M. Gras (Journ. de Med. Chir. and Pharm. in forty vols. viii.) gives an instance of an ununited fracture of both bones of the fore-arm, at the inferior part, from gun- shot, which gave so little inconvenience that no operation was attempted. Horeau (Journ. de Med. Chir. and Pharm. x.) has furnished a case situated in the lower jaw, in which, although mastication was somewhat affected, yet was so little annoying, that the patient was not willing to undergo any treatment for it. Mr. Syme (Edin. Med. and Surg. Journ. July, 1835) has seen want of consolidation in the humerus and fore-arm, where the fracture was transverse, accompanied with very little inconvenience. I have myself seen a young Irish woman with an ununited fracture of the clavicle, in which, although great motion existed between the fragments, so little incon- venience was experienced, that it was not judged proper to resort to any treatment for it ; and in 1839 a case of false joint in the radius, two and a half inches above the wrist, came under my notice, where the patient enjoyed excellent use of the member, and notwithstanding some deformity, was able to work at his trade (that of a tailor), as well as if no accident had happened. “ Even in cases where the want of bony union in fractures does not permit the patient to make use of the limb, we often find that, by the employment of simple means, the defect may be rendered supportable. M. Troschel (Journ. des Progres, x. p. 257) mentions three instances in which, by the application of tin splints fitted to the limbs, the persons were enabled to walk without difficulty. Monteggia (iv. p. 28.) relates the case of a monk in whom existed a non-conso- lidated fracture of the middle of the fore- arm, and who, by means of an appropriate apparatus, could make use of it for all ordi- nary purposes. M. Velpeau (Op. citat. ii. p. 582) examined an ununited fracture of the thigh in a female, who, with the aid of a clumsy apparatus, continued to make good use of her limb. Delpech (Diet, des Sci. Medi- cales, iii. art. Cal) has seen a workman with a non-eonsolidated fracture of the femur, who, by means of a case for the thigh, was enabled to pursue his usual employments. Mr. Lin- ton (Lond. Med. Repository, Feb. 1824, p. 93.) furnishes the case of an Arab Sheik, affected with a fracture of the right humerus, accompanied with great loss of bone, that had never united, in which a circular silver tube, six and a half inches in length, was worn with ease, and permitted him to do good service with his sword. Dr. Betton, of Germantown, mentioned to me an instance which came under his notice, in which no union had occurred after a fracture of the humerus, where a pasteboard splint, made so as to sur- round the arm, was worn with such good effe'et as to allow the man to apply himself to his usual employment. In his retrospective address in surgery, delivered at Liverpool, in