460 BANDAGE. Fig. 138. the heads brought for- M. Mayor’s napkin and seapulary ; the carre long encircles the chest, and the triangle forms the scapulary. When applied over the abdo- men, thigh straps should be added. This bandage is also used for confining the humerus to the side, after reduction of a dislocation of the shoulder, the fore arm being supported in a sling. To the perineal region, the forms of T bandage are best adapted. Fig. J36 is the Fig. 136. double T bandage, made by sewing a broad band, divided longitudinally, upon the middle of a short roller at right angles ; the latter is intended to surround the waist, whilst the di- vided band descends behind the pelvis, and its two extremities passing between the thighs, are brought up on either side of the scrotum to be attached to the roller in front. In the single T bandage, the perpendicular band is undivided. The triangular inguinal bandage, (Fig. 137) is a variety of T bandage adapted to the groin. A triangular piece of linen or calico is stitched to the two portions of a single T bandage at their juncture ; the roller is passed twice or thrice round the pelvis and tied ; the descend- ing band is carried between the thighs, draw- ing the triangular portion over the groin, and is attached to the back part of the roller. The suspensory scrotal bandage (Fig. 148) is a variety of T bandage. Uniting bandages.—Uniting bandages are not so much employed as formerly, but sometimes prove valuable auxiliaries to adhesive plasterand sutures, in maintaining the edges of wounds in contact, by restraining all motions tending to separate them. Their application ought always to be seconded by position, and in deep trans- verse wounds of muscular parts, the addition of a splint, to keep the limb in a perfect state of quietude, is advisable. The spiral and many-tailed bandages (Figs. 130 and 132) may be included under this head, inasmuch as they afford a general support to parts in the neighbourhood of wounds, as to stumps after amputation, and in gun-shot wounds. Another general form of uniting bandage, consists simply of a roller with one or more slits at a short distance from its initial extre- mity, which is divided into two or more tails to correspond; compresses being applied on either side of the wound, the divided extre- mity is passed round the limb, the tails drawn through the slits so as to approximate its edges, and the remainder of the roller con- tinued lightly round the limb to complete the bandage. Particular Uniting Bandages.—Several unit- ing bandages have been devised to second the action of the twisted suture, in preserving the edges of the wound in contact, after the opera- tion for hare-lip. A double-headed roller, about half an inch in width, applied in the following manner, will answer this purpose. A thick compress having been laid upon each cheek, about an inch from the commissure of the lips, the middle of the roller is placed on the nape of the neck, and ward on either side, over the cheeks and com- presses, to the middle of the upper lip ; the two heads cross at this point, drawing forward the cheeks, are again return- ed to the nape of the neck, where they cross once more, and are then carried forward to the forehead, and terminate by horizontal turns round the head. This bandage is liable to the inconve- nience of pressing upon the pins, and retarding the process of cure, a disadvantage avoided in