230 ANEURISM. sequent to the operation, Mrs. Denmark left London, with the view of establishing, through the influence of open air, gentle exercise, and milk diet, the more complete recovery of her health, which, from the time the operation was performed, had been gradually improving, so that at the period of her removal she had no complaint, except a great degree of weak- ness and emaciation, which, independently of the existence of the aneurism, might have been produced by the long confinement and rigid depletory treatment to which she had been subjected. The only symptoms of the original disease which still remained, were a considerable degree of difficulty of respiration, much aggravated by walking, and a slight, scarcely perceptible pulsating enlargement, immediately above the sterno-clavicular arti- culation. The distressing cough, sense of impending suffocation, severe pains in the neck and shoul- der, the constant head-ach, and the tumour, which at the time the ligature was applied to the artery had attained the size of a turkey- egg, had all now very nearly disappeared, the wound had healed, and indeed hardly a mark remained to point out the former existence of the aneurism. In this condition she went to the country, and derived immediate advantage from the change. Her strength daily increased, the dyspnoea in a corresponding degree diminished, and her general appearance improved perceptibly to those around her. In the course of a very short time she was able to walk out into the open air, and the severity of the dyspnoea had now diminished so much, that she could as- cend a staircase with comparative ease. The pulsation of the right carotid artery was now distinct, though by no means so strong as that of the left. The radial artery of the right side was scarcely perceptible, while that of the left conveyed a peculiarly hard thrilling sensation. On application of the stethoscope to the thorax, the pulsations of the heart were found to be natural, but at the upper portion of the sternum, a slight impulse was perceived, as if arising from some considerable enlargement of the origin of the arteria innominata. This impulse was, how- ever, scarcely to be discovered, except after the patient had been making some bodily exertion, or when her mind had been agitated, more especially by questions which excited a suspicion of the existence of any supposed danger. Her countenance had lost entirely that anxious expression which was formerly so remarkable ; and indeed her whole appear- ance bespoke the enjoyment of tolerable, though feeble, health. She had been attacked, after exposure to cold, with a severe bron- chitis, and a consequent return of the dys- pnoea to a great degree, which rendered the abstraction of blood necessary; by means of which, and attention to diet, she regained a nearly perfect state of health. On her return to London, it was found that not a vestige of the aneurismal tumour remained, the disloca- tion of the clavicle no longer existed, and all the distressing symptoms of her alarming dis- ease had vanished. Soon after, without any assignable cause, Mrs. Denmark was again attacked by a severe bronchitis, which, whether from the disorder arising from the state of the coats of the aorta increasing, or any impediment to the circula- tion of the blood which might exist from the closure of the subclavian artery, produced symptoms of an alarming character. The bronchitic affection having continued for two days, I found her labouring under a degree of dyspnoea so great, as entirely to prevent her lying down, and producing a most agonising sense of impending suffocation. She had a frequent cough, which was accompanied with copious expectoration of a frothy mucus ; the pulse was about 130, and wiry; the skin was hot, and there was great febrile de- rangement, accompanied, towards midnight, with high delirium. She complained much of the sensation of impending suffocation, which was accompanied with a slight difficulty in deglutition. There was also present slight oedema of the feet. On examining the neck, no tumour could be found in the situation of the former aneurism, nor were the pulsations of the aorta and heart more strongly felt than before the occurrence of this severe attack, nor, indeed, did any symptom appear to indi- cate that the disease in the vascular system had increased. Under these circumstances she was largely bled, leeches were applied to the chest and feet, and she was kept con- stantly under the effects of nauseating doses of the tartrate of antimony. During the course of the next day, she was again twice largely bled, once cupped in the region of the sternum, and the action of the antimony was continued. From this treatment she ex- perienced considerable relief; but during the course of the three succeeding days I found it necessary to repeat the venesection. She was now reduced to a very weak con- dition ; but although the pulse had sunk nearer to the natural standard, and the febrile action had greatly subsided, yet she still ex- perienced a remarkable degree of difficulty in breathing, accompanied with the feeling of suffocation, which had so alarmed her. The cough was still very frequent, and accompa- nied with more copious expectoration. She was, during the next week, kept extremely low, and again bled, after which she began to revive, and her difficulty of breathing became considerably relieved, but still it was so diffi- cult that she was unable to lie down, and always slept propped up in bed. She continued in a very weak and precari- ous state for several weeks, during which time the difficulty of respiration frequently increased to such a degree, as to render the abstraction of blood necessary. For two months she was unable to rise out of bed, and during all that time was affected with a greater degree of difficult respiration, cough, and expectoration, than she had ever ex-