631 CANCER, PATHOLOGY OF. in favour of such origin is, on the other hand, strong enough to justify the practitioner in acting as if its existence were matter of demonstration, especially as no evil can accrue from his doing so'. (See the observations on Prophylaxis.) The occurrence of cancer in the foetus in utcro may be by some regarded as evidence of the hereditary character of the disease : unfortunately authors have left us no account of the state of the mothers’ health. (c.) Exciting causes.—These are either mechanical, chemical, or vital. 1. Mechanical.—The influence of me- chanical violence in the immediate production of cancerous disease is very generally ad- mitted. Indeed, making full allowance for the sources of fallacy already referred to, the number of instances in which the disease appears, as far as it is possible to judge, to have originated some short while after the receipt of local injury, seems to render the occasional reality of such influence hardly controvertible. But numerical results are wanting to show the relative frequency with which this cause operates ; in the vast ma- jority of cases in which blows are received, no such disastrous consequence follows, nor has any precise information yet been obtained as to the conditions which cause the same species of injury to produce in one person common inflammation with purulent secretion, in another chronic induration, and in a third lead to the deposition of carcinomatous matter. Observation disproves, as we have seen, the general importance of local violence in the production of uterine cancer. Evidence of the same kind exists in respect of the brain; of 43 cases of cerebral carcinoma, collected by M. Andral, two only had fol- lowed injury to the cranium. Chardel relates the case of a hatter whose trade obliged him to lean forcibly with the epigastrium against a board, and who ultimately died of cancer of the stomach ; an event ascribed to the irritative pressure. But he forgets the mul- titudes of hatters, whose epigastria undergo similar rough treatment, and who notwith- standing descend to the grave with a sound stomach. There is on the other hand an account by Baillie of a case in which a me- chanical irritant (five halfpence) had been lodged for a considerable period in the cavity of the stomach, and given rise to the forma- mation of an adventitious cyst, without in- ducing the least cancerous formation. Of the bearing of these facts we shall presently speak. In connexion with this subject may be noticed a curious crotchet of M. Rccamier. This pathologist declares his persuasion that the mere circumstance of a blow being aimed at the stomach may give rise to the disease— that an individual frightened by a gesture ' For a very remarkable instance of prevalence of the disease among both male and female members of a family, the reader may refer to Warren on Tumours, p. 281 ; the curious will find much speculation on the subject in M. Recamier's second volume. imitating a blow, suffered in consequence from “ epigastric anxiety,” and consecutively from cancer. In the dark ages of military surgery the wind of cannon-balls worked marvels; but these sink into insignificance in comparison with M. Recamier’s “ attempt at a blow.” 2. Chemical.—Some years since M. Bouil- laud published a case of scirrhous induration of the pylorus, occurring in an individual who had suffered from gastritis caused by swallowing a quantity of nitric acid. The case is cited in evidence of the inflammatory nature of cancer. But, in the first place, we would ask, where is the proof that the can- cerous affection had not existed before the ingestion of the poison ? And, admitting the reality of the alleged causation in this in- stance, that the conclusion a particulari ad universale is here singularly illogical is shown by such facts as the following, observed by Laennec, Dupuytren, and Tonnelier. A girl unexpectedly recovered after swallowing a quantity of arsenious acid, but repeating her attempt at self-destruction a year after- wards, succeeded. In addition to the anato- mical effects of the poison just taken, a cyst about the size of a goose’s egg, evidently separated recently from the pyloric region, was discovered in the interior of the stomach. The contents of this cyst were on analysis by Yauquelin found to be an ounce of crystallized arsenious acid. No appearance of carcinoma was anywhere detected1. The action of spirituous liquors indulged in persistently and to excess may be considered somewhat allied to that of irritant poisons ; and numerous authors assert that the disease is frequently induced in the stomach by the habit of drunkenness. But no proofs are given of the assertion, and it is contradicted by the fact, that although the stomachs of persons dying with delirium tremens occa- sionally present the anatomical characters of chronic gastritis, the deposition of car- cinoma in that organ has not, so far as we have been enabled to ascertain, been noticed under the circumstances. Besides, how trifling is the proportion of sufferers from gastric cancer to that of habitual drunkards ; and how comes it that it is at least as frequent in the sex almost exempt from delirium tremens as among males2? 3. Vital.—Facts of the description now referred to sufficiently disprove the necessary dependence of cancer upon chronic or other inflammation. But irritation is undoubtedly sometimes the immediate cause of hastening the production of the disease in individuals constitutionally prone to it; nay more, we feel disposed to admit—at least well-observed facts seem to point this way—that under 1 Noitv. Journ. de Med. t. iv. p. 15, An. x. 2 Of 832 patients affected with delirium tremens and observed by Raver, Bang, Hoegh-Guldberg, Kr'iiger-Hansen, and others, 18 only were females. A different statement has been given in this country, but in the form of a simple assertion, respecting the relative frequency of the disease in the sexes. See Brit. & For. Med. Rev. vol. vi.p. 324. 1838.