FRACTURE. 308 necessary. We have seen that Sir A. Cooper has figured a ligamentous union after the loss of an inch of the ulna. A callus appears to have been formed by granulation ; and motion (the radius being entire) converted the callus into ligament. Two such examples are to be seen in the museum of St. Thomas’s Hos- pital, which seem chiefly to depend on sepa- ration of the broken ends of the ulna,—by the action of the square pronator muscle. Both Sir A. Cooper and Mr. Symes having removed portions of the radius in animals, found, not ligamentous union between the fragment, but only a consolidation of each broken end in connexion with the ulna,—the interspace being filled up with a simple cel- lular tissue. This shows that some special cause, as tension, is requisite to convert com- mon tissue into ligament. The formation of a new synovial joint, attended with bare, smooth, or eburnated, surfaces of bone, is an instance of the most scanty repairing action ; and, at the same time, one of the most rare occurrences. That, at- tended with the development of cartilaginous surfaces, indicates little reparative defect be- sides deficiency of bone. It is a kind of bursa, and the like may be formed whenever two sur- faces of natural bone rub against each other, with but little injury to their periosteal invest- ments. In this case, inflammation is set up, causing effusion into a cell, whose walls become thickened ; and there is often some ossifica- tion without, to the effect, that the small spot, on which pressure excited inflammation, being made wider by surrounding solid depo- sit, the force of the pressure is diffused, in- flammation ceases, and the new joint remains as if natural. Cheselden has figured such a joint between the middle of the tibia and fibula of a deformed limb. When the sequels of fracture, firm capsu- lar ligaments, secure these joints, and often render them very available. It is easy to understand that the original cell of the frac- ture may remain unobliterated, from the same want of nutrition as that which leaves the ends denuded, to rub and polish each other, perhaps to excavate one and round another ; but the idea of a ball and socket-joint is never completely realized. Fig. 310 offers a fair illustration of the kind of cavity that may sometimes be met with. Boyer, who examined many false joints with the view of determining the particulars of their anatomy, does not admit the existence of an articular cavity, nor of cartilaginous in- crustation of the fragments. In the experi- ments of MM. Breschet and Villerme, how- ever, they found, that in six cases out of nine, in which they had produced false joints in the lower animals, the articulations corre- sponded to the description just given. In the second and most usual form of false joint, the broken ends of the fragments become rounded by absorption, and covered by a thick periosteum. Between them, sometimes, numerous fibrous bauds run, the intervals be- Fig. 310. Fig.310 represents a pseudarthrosis, with a distinct syno- vial cavity in the /ore-arm. There were surfaces of apparently hare bone in the cavity, much overlapping of the upper fragments foncards, considerable thick- ening of each broken end, with partial granular and peduncular fringes lining a thick dense capsule, by which alone the four ends of bone were connected together. This specimen is in the Museum of Guy's Hospital. tween which are filled with cellular tissue. There is nothing like an articular cavity. The longer the fibrous bands, the more seri- ously are the uses of the limb impaired. The following analysis of the larger table indicates, in a general way, the usual seats of the pseudarthroscs which the surgeon may be required to treat, and the proportional fre- quency of their occurrence, and of their final restoration : Of 130 cases, “ 48 occurred in the femur, of which 31 were cured, 9 remained without benefit, 6 died, and of 2 the result was not stated. “ 48 occurred in the humerus, of which 31 were cured, 14 did not receive benefit, 3 died. “ 33 occurred in the leg, of which 32 were cured, 1 treated without benefit. “ 19 occurred in the fore-arm, of which 17 were cured, 1 remained without benefit, 1 died. “2 occurred in the jaw, and both were cured.” Thus the varieties of pseudarthroses be- come very numerous, and we shall have to remark great differences in their causes and progress: the minor peculiarities which af- fect surrounding parts will scarcely require especial illustration, as they will be spoken of in the course of our remarks. The extent to