ERYSIPELAS. 163 Op. cit. in treating; of the various forms of the accom- panying fever. If congestion of the brain or a tendency thereto manifest itself, blood-letting should be unhesitatingly resorted to, and promptly followed by the use of the various derivations, such as active and efficient purgatives ad- ministered by the mouth or rectum, and sina- pized poultices applied to the lower extremi- ties. The local abstraction of blood is often in these cases of signal service, and the appli- cation of leeches or cupping-glasses round the base of the cranium, is often as beneficial as it is rational. But we should never forget, however, in effecting depletion, that the most violent cerebral disturbance may exist without the least trace of inflammation or hyperaemia in the brain or its membranes, and that it may even exist, as is shown in Dr. Andral’s “ Cli- nique Medicale,” in the opposite conditions of those parts. If coma should take place, depletion may still be necessary, and if there be much heat and full pulse, general and local bleeding, or this latter alone, according to the circumstances of the case, should be resorted to, at the same time that extensive counter-irritation should be effected on the external and internal integu- mentary surfaces by efficient cathartics, sin- apisms and blisters. If the general state should countermand the abstraction of blood, the lower extremities should be enveloped in extensive sinapisms, and a large blister applied at the same time along the nape of the neck, the former to produce a more prompt, the latter a more permanent action, while brisk enemata and a cathartic electuary should be administered till the bowels are freely moved. The laborious and erudite author of the “ Dictionary of Practical Medicine” mentions having in several cases of this kind made use of the following means with success : a full dose of calomel and camphor should be pre- scribed in some thick substance, and placed on the back of the tongue, when it will be gradually swallowed : two or three hours after- wards turpentine with an equal quantity or less of castor oil and a little liquor potassae should be exhibited in the form of an electuary, and repeated frequently until the bowels begin to act, when its operation may be promoted by enemata1. Phlyctaenas should be early and carefully opened to give issue to the serum without taking off the epiderm. The ulcerous form is generally obstinate and difficult to cure, as it depends upon constitutional causes not easy to appreciate. Circumscribed abscesses should be opened early as well to avoid dis- figuring cicatrices as to prevent their exten- sion to the lamcllated cellular tissue, and the consecutive formation of the diffuse form of the disease. If the erysipelatous eruption should coin- cide with the suppression of a habitual dis- charge, efforts should be made to re-establish this emunctory without at all, however, neg- lecting the treatment of the erysipelatous af- fection : thus in cases of haemorrhoidal or menstrual suppression, general bleeding be- comes imperative if a state of plethora and much reaction exist; and it may be rendered derivative by opening the saphena and after- wards applying leeches to the loins, labia pudendae, or inside of the thighs, and followed up by the use of warm hip baths and sina- pised pediluvia. The action of these means w’ill be advantageously seconded by the use of resinous purgatives, commonly decorated with the name of emmenagogues : they free the haemorrhoidal circulation by emptying the rectum and removing a mechanical impediment to its course, and by their specific action on the lower intestine they produce a fluxionary movement towards it and the contiguous parts. If the erysipelas has succeeded to the sup- pression of an old purulent discharge, the treatment should be conducted on the same principles, combatting accidental plethora by depletion, and derivating to the seat of the suppuration by means appropriate to recall the discharge, such as stimulant poultices, blisters, &c. Internal complications are to be treated according to their seat, nature, &c., as under other circumstances and without reference to the erysipelas. Thus, pharyngitis will be treated by antiphlogistics (leeches, demulcent gargles, &e.,) or by detergents and tonics, ac- cording to the nature of the case : in the diphtheritic form stimulant and escharotic topics should be early employed, in quick succession to, or conjointly with, depletion if it be required, and frequent insufflations with powdered alum, or strong aluminous gargles, or still better, daubing the part over with hydrochloric acid or a strong solution of nitrate of silver, will more effectually stop the pro- gress of the affection than any soothing topics. In gastritis the treatment will be of course addressed to the organ affected, and leeches and emollient cataplasms applied to the epi- gastrium with total abstinence, and the use of mucilaginous drinks should be resorted to. In phlebitis, one of the most grievous affections that can beset the economy, the use of the lancet and leeches may be required in the first moments, conjoined with compression by means of a bandage, and the application of cold resolutive topics; but the first short period over, all means become ineffectual : the use of tonics and analeptic food and the administration of cordial medicines are the means that reason sanctions. The varieties of erysipelas referable to the general symptoms or constitutional disturb- ance are to be treated according to the nature of the accompanying fever, in the presence of which the eruption often becomes but of secondary therapeutical importance. Simple erysipelatous fever, and the accepta- tion of this denomination has been elsewhere defined, may be considered in a therapeutical sense as a simple or eruptive fever, and how- M 2