EMPYEMA. Laennec had considerable confidence in diuretics, when given in large doses, more especially in the acetate and nitrate of pot- ass. We have both ourselves prescribed and seen the former salt used by others, to a large extent, in cases of chronic pleurisy, but, we must confess, without being able to trace any obvious diminution in the effusion to its in- fluence. Nitre is probably more efficacious ; but to the infusion of digitalis was attributable the only real improvement, under the use of medicines strictly belonging to this class, of which we have satisfactorily ascertained the reality. Digitalis both acts more efficaciously as a diuretic when administered in infusion, and appears less prone to produce those toxic effects which occasionally result from its accu- mulative action. Infusions of juniper or pyrola umbellataare recommended by Dr. Stokes. But in this stage the remedy on which this physician places most reliance is “ iodine, employed internally and externally ; a pint of Lugol’s mineral water may be taken during the day ; and from two drachms to half an ounce of the ointment rubbed daily over the side.” The effect of this medicine is sometimes extraor- dinarily rapid, even when it does not, as is usual, act as a diuretic ; nor can any case, in which it has not been tried, be considered beyond the reach of control by medicinal means. The iodide of iron is prescribed by Dr. Williams, when the case is marked by asthenia; and a more excellent combination cannot be employed. In order to keep this salt in a perfectly neutral state, which is essen- tial to prevent its disagreeing with the sto- mach, it should be preserved in solution, with a coil of iron wire reaching from the bottom to the top of the bottle, as suggested by Mr. Squire. When filtered for use, the solution is perfectly transparent, has a very agreeable chalybeate taste, and commonly agrees better with the stomach than any other ioduretted preparation. Should it excite any irritation, this may be prevented by recommending the patient to swallow a small piece of bread after each dose. A quantity of the solution equal to two or three grains of the salt may be given three or four times in the twenty-four hours. The sustained use of purgatives is perhaps deserving of trial, if diuretics fail; but their action, being of a more depressing kind, re- quires to be carefully watched. They should be very cautiously exhibited when the lungs are tuberculous, either because the intestinal tunics already contain tubercle, which may thereby be more speedily brought into the stage of softening, and induce ulcerative de- struction, with its consequences, of the mucous tunic ; or because the irritation of the bowel in a subject already phthisical accelerates the deposition of tubercle there. We have seen at least one case in which uncontrollable diar- rhoea, brought into existence under such cir- cumstances, evidently hastened the patient’s dissolution. On the other hand, dyspnoea, which has resisted all endeavours for its relief, may occasionally be removed or ma- terially relieved, and this almost instanta- neously, by an active hydragogue. We have observed this from the exhibition of elaterium, even where no manifest change in the thoracic physical signs followed. Diaphoretics may be exhibited, particularly if there/ be occasional febrile action ; but in neither these medicines nor in expectorants, as promotive of absorption, can any confidence be justly placed. Counter-irritation of the affected side has been employed in every varietj', from the mildest to the most severe. The only contra- indication to the use of agents of this class is the presence of fever. No matter what pre- cautions be taken, their very common ten- dency is to increase this where it exists, and hence to promote a condition extremely un- favourable to the advancement of absorption. “ First remove feverish action, and then counter-irritate,” is a maxim of primary im- portance. The application of blisters exercises a very manifest influence on effusions, when had re- course to with the caution of which we have just stated the importance. They should be repeated frequently, made of large size, applied in different situations, not kept on longer than is just sufficient to produce vesication, and every means used to secure rapid healing of the blistered surface. Employed in this way for some time—say a fortnight—blisters are often most signally beneficial; and we are the more anxious to state emphatically their utility in these cases, because the very justifi- able incredulity as to their therapeutical effi- cacy in acute parenchymatous and membranous inflammations, now arising among the profes- sion, might possibly be extended to their action in chronic maladies of the kind at pre- sent under consideration. Should any objection to the use of cantha- rides exist in particular cases, the tartar- emetic ointment, or a Burgundy pitch-plaster sprinkled with tartarized antimony, may be substituted : but these are much less advan- tageous applications. Issues, setons, moxas, and the actual cautery, have all had their advocates and employers in the very advanced stages of the disease. The moxa is probably the most advisable of these, both positively and negatively, and may be had recourse to when the use of blisters has failed to affect the dis- ease. The employment of the moxa will be comparatively most beneficial when the effu- sion is of very long standing, and attended probably with anatomical change in the bones and ligaments. 3. When the disease has become decidedly chronic, (he general health is to be sustained by a succulent non-stimulant diet ; strong broths, meats of easy digestion, jellies, &c. may be taken with a degree of freedom pro- portional to their observed effects. And to this increasingly liberal diet may be added the use of gentle tonics,—such as tincture of