EAR, AND HEARING, DISEASES OF. 53 Causes.—Frequently this disease conies on without being traceable to any particular cause. Among the predisposing causes, prolonged disorders of the digestive organs, old age, and hereditary tendency are particularly marked. Cold is frequently mentioned by the patient as that which first brought it on. All debili- tating influences, whether acting on the mind or body, act powerfully in producing it : con- cussions of the head also, severe blows on the ear, very loud noises, &c. The prognosis in nervous deafness is gene- rally admitted to be unfavourable. From the results of his mode of treatment, immediately to be mentioned, Kramer has considered him- self justified in laying down the following :— The prognosis in this complaint depends very much on circumstances, such as the age of the patient, previous treatment, the present amount of hearing. When the ticking of a w’atch held close to the ear or on the teeth of the lower jaw, can scarcely be heard at all, there is very little hope. The most favourable age for the treatment is under twenty. The pro- gnosis in the erethitic form is much less fa- vourable than in the torpid. Treatment.—All kinds of treatment have been adopted in cases considered nervous deafness, but too often only to the detriment of the health of the patient, and if with no direct injury to the ear, certainly with no benefit. Itard recommends the application of the moxa behind the condyle of the jaw, and ethe- real vapours sent into the meatus, and into the tympanum through the Eustachian tube. Internally the use of arnica and iron. Kramer has adopted and carried out more extensively Itard’s plan of treatment by in- jecting ethereal vapours into the tympanum ; and trusts entirely to this local treatment, though he does not neglect directing atten- tion to the constitution. In regard to the na- ture of the cases benefited by the injection of ethereal vapour into the tympanum, I would refer to the observations at p. 30. Could a correct diagnosis of the nature of a case of deafness be made, and were it ascer- tained that the auditory nervous apparatus was the part affected, the treatment would require to be conducted on the same principles as those which regulate the treatment of amau- rosis. Cancer involving the internal ear. In a preceding part of this article it was remarked that cancerous tumours, involving the internal ear or neighbouring parts, may make their appearance externally in the form of a fungus in the auditory passage. The fungi of the dura mater, for instance, which so readily destroy the bones and make their way into all their openings, sometimes get into the tympanum, and from thence appear at the auditory passage. As the distinction of such cancerous excrescences in the auditory passage from common polypus, is the principal point which concerns us here, the following cases are given in illustration of the diagnosis. The greater rapidity of growth and ten- dency to hemorrhage, would distinguish an encephaloid growth in the auditory passage from common polypus, supposing the former had not already presented itself in the form of a swelling around the ear. In a case of medullary tumour of the in- ternal ear, described by Mr. Travers, the sufferings of the patient were severe from the confinement of its situation and the displace- ment of parts ; and the deformity was exces- sive. Externally, the tumour extended from the temporal fossa to the angle of the lower jaw, and internally to the posterior nares and fauces. The mastoid cells were apparently not invaded by the tumour. The jaw'became locked, and a bleeding fungus filled the meatus auditorius externus. The same side of the head and face and the muscles of deglutition were paralysed. To this coma succeeded. The patient was nourished with great diffi- culty, and his death was accelerated by inani- tion. A post-mortem examination was, to Mr. Travers’s great disappointment, refused. A case of fungus hsematodes involving the ear, is described by Mr. Wishart in the Edin- burgh Medical and Surgical Journal'. The patient, a child three years old, about nine weeks before being first seen by Mr. Wishart, began, without any apparent cause, to com- plain of a severe pain in the right ear, from the external meatus of which a thin fetid fluid was discharged, at times slightly tinged with blood. About a fortnight afterwards a poly- pous tumour was perceived filling up the meatus externus. About a fortnight after the appearance of this growth, a general swelling was observed around the ear ; and behind it a small livid spot about the size of a shilling. About this time i. e. a month from his first being observed to complain, a small hard, but not painful lump w'as felt over the zygoma. The swelling now increased rapidly in size, and extended chiefly backwards and down- wards along the side of the neck. The auricle continued to be pushed outwards, and formed the apex of the tumour. Three weeks after its appearance, the livid spot above-mentioned ulcerated, and a fungus grew from it, which frequently sloughed off, but was quickly rege- nerated, and discharged a large quantity of fetid bloody matter; and frequently haemor- rhage to the extent of an ounce or two occurred. The ulceration and size of the fungus kept pace with the increase of the size of the tu- mour. About three weeks before the child’s death, he was attacked by diarrhoea, and du- ring that time the tumour increased very ra- pidly, and its substance became much softer. The ulcerated fungus discharged large sloughs, attended with more alarming haemorrhage ; a larger fungus protruded from the external meatus of the ear. Death took place exactly 1 Vol. vii. 1811, 2nd edition, 1814, p. 48.