ECTROPIUM. 65 thickened and sarcomatous, the eyelid falls away from the eyeball and becomes everted ; and while the contraction of the orbicularis muscle tends to augment the eversion, this becomes more and more confirmed, princi- pally by the increase of the thickened and sarcomatous state of the conjunctiva, and by the gradual accommodation of the eyelid to its changed position. By long exposure, the epithelium of the everted conjunctiva assumes in a great degree the characters of cuticle ; so that the con- junctiva becomes callous, and can now bear, without inconvenience, the contact of external bodies, which before caused irritation and even gave rise to bleeding. Treatment.—As in the form of ectropium just described, there is no actual loss of the skin of the eyelid, and as the contraction of it is in general not very considerable, and as the sarcomatous state of the conjunctiva together with the relaxation of the tarsus of the af- fected lid, have a large share in keeping up the eversion, means calculated to produce contraction of the conjunctiva, either alone or in combination with means calculated to shorten the transversely elongated tarsus, will in general be found sufficient to restore the eyelid to its natural position. To produce contraction of the morbid con- junctiva, the repeated application to its sur- face of the lunar caustic pencil is the most convenient method. The eyelid being evert- ed still more by traction on the neighbouring skin, the caustic is to be pencilled on the con- junctiva in a direction from one angle of the eye to the other, parallel to, but at a little distance from, the ciliary margin of the eyelid. After the application of the caustic, the part is to be wiped with a bit of lint and then pencilled with sweet oil. It is often advan- tageous to scarify the conjunctiva before ap- plying the caustic. The cauterization may be repeated in the course of three or four days. Instead of lunar caustic, strong sul- phuric acid has been recommended for the cauterization of the conjunctiva. It is applied by means of a pencil of wood or bone, care being had in dipping the pencil into the acid that it do not take up so much as to form a drop hanging at its point. The lunar caustic, however, deserves the preference in general ; and when it is found insufficient to effect the desired object, it is better to have recourse to the excision of an elliptical shaped piece of the thickened and sarcomatous conjunctiva paral- lel to the ciliary margin of the eyelid. To effect this, the eyelid being drawn as much as possible away from the eyeball by traction on the neighbouring skin, the dis- eased conjunctiva is to be pinched up with a forceps and the piece shaved away with a scalpel or a cataract knife, or snipped off with curved scissors. The piece removed must be of such a breadth as appears sufficient, in order that when cicatrization is complete, the contraction of the conjunctiva may be neither so much as to invert the eyelid, nor VOL. II. so little as still to leave some degree of ever- sion. After cauterization or excision of the con- junctiva, it is well to keep the lid in its proper place by means of strips of plaister and a com- press and bandage. When there is evident transverse elonga- tion of the tarsus, the excision of a wedge- shaped piece out of the whole substance of the eyelid, as first practised by Sir William Adams *, may, either alone, or in combination with one or other of the means above mentioned, be necessary to restore the eyelid to its natural position. The base of the wredge-shaped piece excised corresponds to the ciliary margin of the eyelid, and must be of such a breadth as will restore that margin to its proper length. The excision should be performed rather to- wards the external canthus than in the middle of the eyelid. Fig. 212. The breadth of the piece necessary to be ex- cised being duly calculated, the eyelid is to be seized hold of at the place with a forceps, and drawn from the eyeball. Then with a pair of strong straight scissors, the surgeon cuts out the piece at two strokes, the first being made on the left hand side of the forceps, and the second on the right hand side. After the excision of the piece, the eyelid is to be re- stored to its proper position and the edges of the wound united by the harelip suture. Fig. 213. The pins are to be inserted and brought out at some distance, about one-tenth of an inch, from the edges of the wound. The first pin in- troduced should be close to the ciliary margin of the lid, in order to insure evenness at this ' Practical Observations on Ectropium, or Eversion of the Eyelids ; with tho Description of a New Opera- tion for the Cure of that Disease, &c. London, 1814, F