CICATRIX. 776 seemly and irregular scars, which, more parti- cularly when the corrosion has penetrated deeply, exhibit a number of dilated anastomos- ing vessels filled with dark blood. The cicatrix resulting from a burn differs in appearance according to the amount of injury. Thus, where from protracted suppuration the rete mucosum is completely destroyed, the cicatrix is white from the absence of pigment um nigrum. Where, on the other hand, the rete mucosum is scathed without being entirely destroyed, the colouring matter acquires a much deeper shade than natural. Hence the yellow, tawny, or brown stains which the scars exhibit when perfectly healed, are for the most part permanent, or at all events but slightly modified by time. In the negro, the colour of the cicatrix is much deeper than the natural skin. Where again it is destroyed in certain points, and preserved though changed in others, the cicatrix presents a kind of mot- tled appearance ; the rete mucosum being either not reproduced or else reproduced very im- perfectly on the points where it has been destroyed, the prominences thence resulting have a white colour ; while the points of the skin corresponding to those where the rete mucosum has been merely altered, have a more or less brown tint. A valuable practical hint is deducible from the above facts, namely, that we should avoid as much as possible ap- plying blisters for any length of time on parts habitually exposed to view, especially in the case of females, from the risk of producing un- sightly scars. But one of the great, inconveniences attend- ing extensive burns, arises from the irregular shape and extent of the cicatrix which is formed, and its subsequent absorption. This peculiarity, says Dr. Macartney1, would seem to depend on the cicatrix involving so much of the skin, in consequence of new organized lymph or granulations being formed on the cutaneous tissue, which has been only imper- fectly destroyed, and the basis of the true skin being afterwards removed by absorption along with the structure of the cicatrix. It is the duty of the surgeon to watch at- tentively the progress of the cicatrix, and when necessary to employ judicious measures for moderating its extent, and counteracting deformity. Any liquid exudation from the surface ought to be gently wiped off, as it is apt to give rise to crusts or furfuraccous scales, which when allowed to accumulate may prove a source of irritation and ulce- ration. The cicatrix ought likewise to be protected against external impressions, espe- cially when recent, or situate in the proxi- mity of important organs like the brain, as occurs after trephining, or fractures of the cranium with loss of bony substance. A moderate degree of warmth will be proper, as cicatrices are very sensible to atmospheric vicissitudes. Thus, persons often complain of a feeling of uneasiness and cold in them on the approach of winter. They are, moreover, 1 Op. cit. p. 63. prone to become chapped and to ulcerate du- ring the prevalence of frosty weather. Neuralgia of the cicatrix is a most painful and often a most intractable disease. When perfectly local it sometimes yields to surgical treatment, and Mons. Larrey has instanced several cases in which he succeeded by de- stroying the cicatrix through the application of the actual cautery. Where the mischief ex- ists at the origin of the nerve, art is unavail- ing. A swollen state of the cicatrix frequently persists after certain operations, as that for hare-lip, depending on non-absorption of the effused lymph. Here Mr. Wardrop informs me blistering will be found a very effectual remedy. When tumours form, they must be removed by the knife. A tense, contracted, and rigid cicatrix con- stituting a hard band, is a frequent sequel of severe burns. To get rid of this defect, of which the preventive treatment will be de- tailed in the article Cicatkization, various means have been suggested. Dupuytren re- commended the following practice :— 1. To make several transverse incisions at short distances throughout the whole length and thickness of the band, without removing any portion of its substance, so as to enable the surgeon to extend it readily. 2. To stretch afterwards the parts in a di- rection opposite to that to which the injury had brought them, in order to obtain a cica- trix with the production of a new cutaneous structure. This extension requires to be managed with great circumspection, by means of band- ages and mechanical contrivances, because serious consequences, as intense pain, violent inflammation, and gangrene have been known to ensue where due precautions had not been employed. Indeed, even in spite of the best directed efforts mischief has resulted, as ex- emplified in a case adduced by Delpech, the author of a mode of treatment just the in- verse of the above. He maintains that in deformities of this description we may expect a cure only, provided we can remove in totality the “ morbific organization,” and that this being done, sufficient loose skin remains to admit of the parts being approximated in the counter-direction to that caused by the deformity, and brought into immediate union. Of the two, this latter method assuredly de- serves the preference where sufficient skin can be saved, since by direct union we obviate the production of new inoclu/ar texture, and the consequent recurrence of deformity. But the practice is clearly inadmissible where the cica- trix is extensive and tortuous. Another means of accomplishing the same object is by making lateral incisions in the neighbouring integument, or by determining a loss of substance followed by a cicatrix, which would tend to divert the part into an oppo- site direction. This latter plan has been ap- plied with great success in the instance of trichiasis; an affection dependent on scarring