852 CROTCHET. Fig. 18G. instrument is never necessary, and seldom practicable, it has be- come obsolete. The annexed sketch exhibits that now in most common use. It is a very simple instrument, but one which can seldom be ob- tained of a proper temper. It must neither bend, nor break : be neither too sharp, to tear through the bone so as to injure the struc- ture of the mother, or the finger of the attendant; nor so blunt that it will not afford a firm pur- chase. Mode of application.—We shall suppose then, that the head of the child has been opened, and both cerebrum and cerebellum tho- roughly broken up ; (a point of great importance, as cases are recorded of chil- dren screaming loudly on birth, after the head had been opened, and the brain only partly ex- tracted ; a circumstance necessarily most hor- rifying to all parties concerned :) and it is considered, that even in the diminished state of the head, the powers of nature are insuffi- cient to complete delivery. Extraction then must be commenced, and if the crotchet is the instrument selected, it is to be introduced within the cranium, and fixed in some part of the bone likely to support firm traction. The instrument is held in and directed by the right hand, a finger of the left being placed on the external surface of the head, exactly opposite the spot on which the point of the crotchet is fixed, in order that if the bone give way, the structure of the mother may be protected from injury. A steady extract- ing force, commencing gently, and gradually increasing it, must be applied in the direction of the axis of the pelvic inlet, that is in a line from the umbilicus to the lower part of the sacrum. If the disproportion between the bulk of the foetal skull and the size of the pelvis be not very great, we shall find the head gradually descend; and probably after having passed the constricted portion, its sub- sequent progress will be easy. But if the pelvic deformity be great, portions of bone will be constantly breaking away, and on being carefully removed, a fresh purchase is to be obtained. In this way, the base of the skull will sometimes be the only part left; in wdiich case, the rough edges are to be care- fully covered with the scalp, and the crotchet being fixed in the foramen magnum, by care- fully adapting the small diameters of the bones to those of the pelvis, and exerting steady traction, the delivery is completed. If even this fails, we must have recourse to turning, or the osteotomist of Dr. Davis. After the birth of the head, further efforts are usually required to complete the delivery of the body. A napkin may be wrapped round the remains of the head and neck, and steady but remitting traction exercised in the direction of the axis of the brim. The blunt hook may be placed alternately under each axilla, and the shoulders thus brought down. But if any considerable difficulty oc- curs, as the child is dead, rather than give any unnecessary suffering to the mother, it is better to pierce the thorax with a pair of scissors, and remove the viscera of the thorax and abdomen, after which, all obstacles are easily overcome. It is plain from the above remarks, that there are some serious objections to the crot- chet : namely, the danger of lacerating the structure of the mother, or the fingers and arm of the accoucheur, if it accidentally break away from its hold. To obviate this danger, the craniatory forceps have been recom- mended, (see Forceps, Obstetrical,) and the guarded crotchets of Dr. Davis. The following sketch exhibits the application of the best of his instruments. Fig. 187. The crotchet part of this instrument is armed with three stems or prongs, to be introduced into the interior of the skull. A more am- ple purchase, with less probability of fracturing the skull, is thus obtained, than if the crotchet had but one large prong. These stems or prongs form an angle of thirty-five degrees with the stem: they are a little curved from the base to the point, the convexity being towards the point, the concavity towards the handle. The guard is to be passed on the out- side of the head. Its extremity is hol- lowed out like a spoon, and perfo- rated with three oval holes, so situated as to correspond with the prongs of the crotchet, and is pre- vented from slipping by rough pieces of steel placed between, arid behind the perforations. The handles and locking apparatus resemble those of the common forceps. There are, probably, many cases where these instruments might be employed with advantage, but fur- ther experience is required to prove whether they answer the purpose intended, and whe- ther they are not open to the same serious objections as the craniotomy forceps. Dr. Davis has also introduced another in- strument, which he calls the body-crotchet, for the purpose of extracting the body of the child, after the previous removal of tne head. The annexed cut gives a very good idea of