ABDOMEN. 12 of injury in the integuments. Both the spleen and liver may be thus ruptured, and even the gall bladder, giving rise to a fatal extravasation of bile. The bladder and uterus can only be ruptured while in a state of distension. The stomach has also been ruptured, but the acci- dent is very rare ; rupture of the small intes- tines is not so unfrequent: the liability to this accident, cceteris paribus, will be relative to the degree of distension and density, as well as to the power of resistance of any given viscus. When the walls of the abdomen con- tract firmly, and prepare themselves, as it were for a blow, the protection to the internal parts may be effective. Some men are able to endure heavy blows on the abdomen, with- out shrinking, merely by throwing the recti muscles into strong contraction. Solutions of continuity may also occur in the muscles, or tendinous sheaths themselves, without any breach of the skin from blows, or from the efforts of straining in any way, such as cough- ing, vomiting, &c., more particularly, when the parietes are already thrown on the stretch from uterine gestation, ascites, tympanitis, or ovarian dropsy. They become sometimes morbidly fragile towards the end of typhoid fever, and are easily torn in the efforts which the patient may make during delirium. The abdominal organs are also liable to rupture from internal causes. Rostan has observed, the peritoneal coat of the intestines torn in some of the aged females at the Salpetriere, from constipation. Marjolin and Velpeau have seen the same effect produced by strictures of the intestines, on both the peritoneal and muscular coats. The simple contusions of this region are not attended with danger, and require no particu- lar remark. (See Wounds, contused.) Effusions into the cavity of the abdomen.—It has been already stated that the fulness of the abdominal cavity, and the pressure of the con- tained organs on each other have a powerful effect in checking effusion or extravasation, as they also undoubtedly have in limiting it when it has taken place. The fluid poured out, either slides into the nearest interstices of the convolutions, where it coagulates if it be blood, or if the quantity be considerable, forms a sheet in the neighbourhood of its source, and gradually works its way towards the open- ing in the parietes, if there be an external wound : it seldom yields to the effect of gravi- tation alone on account of the influence of other contravening causes. The matter ex- travasated may be blood, aliment, bile, chyme, pus, fsecal matter, urine, &c. When blood alone is effused, and in small quantity, the risk of life may be comparatively small, but when any of the other fluids are extravasated, life is quickly destroyed by rapid and violent peritonitis. Fistulous openings are sometimes established in the walls of the abdomen, extending in the course of the cellular expansions, or communi- cating with the internal organs themselves, such as the stomach, gall-bladder, different portions of the intestines, &c., the fistulous tracks being carried completely into these viscera, by means of adhesions. (See Fis- tula.) The subject of protrusions of the contents of the abdominal cavity will be treated of under Herni^e. The general rules for exploring the viscera, are given in the article Abdomen, in the Cyclopaedia of Practical Medicine. To the physical signs for the guidance of diagno- sis there laid down, we shall add one which has been established by Dr. Bright, since the publication of that work. This sign is a cre- pitation which is felt under the fingers, and is indicative of abdominal or peritoneal adhe- sions. Dr. Bright states that it is only felt during a certain time, and is transitory. The symptom itself is of some importance in sur- gery, as it may guide and give confidence to the surgeon, in opening collections which tend outwards from the cavities, under the isolation of these adhesions, to be voided at the sur- face. In collections of matter in the liver, for instance, the surgeon should examine carefully and frequently, in order to detect this sign. Dr. Bright observes, “ When the circum- stances of the disease have rendered it pro- bable that adhesions are established between the viscera, and the peritoneum of the pa- rietes, the touch gives a peculiar sensation, varying between the crepitation of emphy- sema, and that which w^ould be produced by squeezing new leather between the fingers.” Dr. Bright has had numerous opportunities of satisfying himself of the correctness of this sign. The anatomical and physiological conside- rations appertaining to the subject of Abdo- men, will be found in fuller detail, in the article treating of it, in the Cyclopaedia of Anatomy and Physiology. Bibliography.—The observations of many of the surgical writers on the abdomen fall necessarily under the articles Groin, Hernia, Wounds, Effusion, to which, therefore, it will be proper to refer for an indication of their works. Beclard, Diet, de Med., Paris, 1821. Cruveilhier, Diet, de Med., et de Chir. Prat. Paris, 1829. Rudolphi, Encyc. Worterbuch. Berlin, 1828. Dance, Diet, de Med. Paris, 1832. Berard, Diet, de Med. Ed. 2, art. Abdomen. Vel- peau, Anat. Chirurgicale, Paris, 1833. Blandin, Anat. Topographique. Froumaniin, Coup d'Epee au Bas-ven- tre, avee lesion de l’intestin, Acad. Roy. deChirurg. I. S Cooper, Surgical Diet. art. Wounds. Hennen, Principles of Military Surgery, Ed. 2, chap. xix. Sir A. Cooper's Lectures, by F. Tyrrell. Ludwig, Hist. Pathol., singularis cutis turpitudinis, Leipzig, 1795. Fardeau, sur Trois HerniesGraisseuses; dansle meme sujet, Journal de Sedillot. Deschamps, meme journal. Furstenau, abscessuum musculorum abdominis et^vi- cinarum partium, laeta tristiaque exempla. Rintel, 1742. Bourrienne, sur les Abces qui ont leur siege dans 1 in- terstice des muscles du Bas-ventre, Journal de Med. et Chir. 1775. Dance, Diet, de Med. Ed. 2, Paris, 1832; et son Memoire sur l’odeur fetide et stereorale, que presentent certains abces developpes^dans 1 epais- seur des parois abdominalcs, Archives Gen. de Medi- cine, Oct. 1832. Bassereau, Abces Foetides qui se developpent au voisinage des organes communiquant avec l’exterieur, Journal Ilebd. vii. 131, Paris, 1832. Albers, uber Pulsationen in Unterleibe. Allan Burns, on Preternatural Pulsations in the Epigastric Region, Edinburgh, 1809. ( Bransby B. Cooper. )