94 EMPYEMA. EMPYEMA (e/jnrvrjfia, from iv, in, and irvov, pus). At an early period this term, which etymologically means any internal col- lection of pus, was restricted in its applica- tion to purulent accumulation in the pleura, a condition which in conformity with the titles of other morbid collections in the cavity of that membrane ought to be called Pyothorax '. In practice, however, the word empyema is now used in a wider sense, and applied to every fluid pleuritic collection, whether puru- lent, puriform, albumino-serous, or otherwise, which runs a manifestly chronic course, and continues stationary or increases in spite of remedial measures. The term is evidently an incorrect one; but as its conventional meaning is generally understood, there is perhaps no adequate motive for changing it. In the vast majority of cases collections of the kind stated are the consequence, but not the necessary consequence, of primary inflammatory action in the pleura: in com- paratively rare instances they result from the entry, in greater or less quantity, into the pleura of fluid or semi-fluid matters (pus, tuberculous matter, blood, &c.) secreted else- where (in the lungs, mediastinum, thoracic parietes, liver, &c.) and of secondary inflam- mation induced by these foreign matters. Em- pyema is sometimes developed among the train of lesions occasionally following capital operations, puerperal fever, &c. • In order to render the subject of em- pyema clearly intelligible, it will be neces- sary for us not only to describe its characters when actually formed, but to trace the pro- gress of the changes leading to it ; in a word to examine, with as much brevity as possible, the history of pleurisy. As the physical signs of this disease are an exact transcript of the changes occurring in the inflamed membrane, we shall commence by describing these changes as they arise in the four stages of the affection; the dry stage, that of plastic exudation, that of liquid effusion, and that of absorption,—all of them presumed to arise in a pleural sac previously free from disease. I. Dry pei'iod. The anatomical characters of pleurisy at its outset, have been ascertained from the examination of persons seized with the disease immediately before the occurrence of death from some other cause. The only perceptible change at this period appears in the loss of the humid, polished, and smooth aspect, natural to the membrane, either over a continuous space of some extent or in in- terrupted patches. At this period there is neither notable injection, nor new deposit of any kind to be detected. The dryness re- ferred to is occasionally a cadaveric phenome- non, and is hence not to be implicitly trusted to, unless when symptoms or more especially 1 Some of the older writers speak, with curious dis- regard of the meaning of words, of an “ empyema of blood,” an “ empyema of air,” &c. Purulent empyema they imagined to he formed by the eon- tents of a “ vomica” burst into the pleura. physical signs have afforded corroborative evidence. At a very slightly more advanced stage vascular injection exhibits itself; commen- cing in the punctiform and capilliform varie- ties, it is generally found to affect patches of the surface, though it is highly probable, as originally suggested by Bichat, that during life the redness involves the entire extent of inflamed membrane. The subserous tissue is injected as well as, and even more abundantly than, the serous ; and the arborescent variety of injection may be considered, as Dr. Cars- well states, distinctive of vascularity affecting the former. II. Period of plastic exudation. Morbid secretion speedily sets in: this is either pseudo-membranous or liquid, most commonly of both species combined. The occurrence of solely pseudo-membranous secretion is indeed under all circumstances very uncom- mon, and we have never seen an example of primary pleurisy in which the effused matter was wholly of this kind ; nevertheless Laennec fell into error in maintaining that all presumed cases of “ dry pleurisy ” might be accounted for by either supposing absorption of serous fluid, which had actually been effused, to have occurred before death, or by supposing the mechanical prevention of effusion to have been effected by the pressure of an indurated lung. The pseudo-membranous exudation presents the usual characters of this matter ; occupies a variable extent of the costal or pulmonary pleural surfaces or of both ; is deposited in patches, granules, or large irregular lamellae; adheres to the subjacent surface with tolera- ble firmness, yet may be separated with a de- gree of ease proportional to the recency of its formation ; of irregular thickness, whence it presents a furrowed or even a retiform ap- pearance ; composed of a single or of several superimposed strata ; of yellowish-white or dead-white colour; opaque, opaline, or, it may be, slightly diaphanous, and varying in consistence from that of thick cream to that of hard-boiled albumen of egg. It is now neither supplied with vessels, nor does it pre- sent even sanguineous spots or striae. The corresponding surfaces of the pleurae are sometimes already agglutinated. Certain points of the surface from which pseudo- membranous matter has been detached during life, frequently exhibit a finely mammillated or tomentose appearance, from renewed ex- halation, or from some shreds of the original matter having remained attached. Its separa- tion during life is occasionally facilitated by serous effusion under the plastic material. Masses of considerable size arc found in rare instances to have been thus detached ; they subsequently acquire a roundish form and smooth surface, float in the serum, and present no evidence, anatomically speaking, of their having ever been adherent to the pleura. III. Period of effusion. After the continu- ance of the inflammation for a variable period, or, it may be, from the very outset of this