FRACTURE. 30G Fig. 3D5. Fig. 305 represents a strong ligament uniting the head of the femur to its shaft. Fracture of tfie neck of the bone at a remote period—perhaps in early life— has led to the disappearance, or great shortening, of the neck; near to which the solid shell has pene- trated the cancellus, and is in progress of wasting. The white line traversing the section indicates the site of a layer of defined fibrous tissue. Here we may not suppose that contact was wanting, or that the vas- cular supply was inefficient; but we must infer the absence of the cause which determines ossification as a consequence of inflammation. end of bone becomes covered by cellular membrane ; and even when two fractured ex- tremities are nearly opposed, but motion- less or scantily nou- rished, very little more than an union by cel- lular membrane may be met with. On the other hand, a wide space of separation of fragments may be only closed by loose tissues. A trans- verse fracture of the patella neglected, or the loss of a portion of cranium, may be Fig. 306 is copied from Mr. Bransby B. Cooper's beautiful edition of Sir A. Cooper's work on Dislo- cation and Fractures. There has been a fracture of the radius which is repaired by bone, and (at the same time, probably) a fracture of the ulna, which is only repaired by ligament. The want of contact, the influence of the quadratus, and the disposition of the upper broken end to advance, suffice to explain the want of bony union ; but the appearance of the upper section of the ulna evinces that its broken end has been sealed by bone and periosteum as a stump-bone. The specimen here depicted, is in the Museum of St. Thomas's Hospital, together with a similar one in a very young subject, in which both bones have but liga- mentous union. said to have no kind of solid reunion. 4. A fourth series of cases present a kind of synovial cavity, and a more or less efficient capsular ligament, within which denuded sur- Fig. 307. Fig. 307 is from a well-known specimen presented by Dr. Sims to Sir A. Cooper, and. now in the Museum at Guy's Hospital. Open and comminuted fracture of the tibia has here led to the loss of a considerable portion of the shaft, with subsequent reunion of the fragments. The fibula is much thickened, and it would seem that wherever tension or pressure has operated, there is hypertrophy manifested; but else- where atrophy. The conical end of the ripper frag- ment is comparable to the same part long disused after amputation below the knee, and it may be use- fully contrasted with the expanded end of an old well- used stump-bone of the thigh. faces of bone, or polished cartilaginous faces, rub against each other : very rarely, perhaps, villi, filaments, and granular and peduncular bodies of indurated membrane, line the cavity, as they do some bursae. In the catalogue of the Hunterian Collec- tion, in the Museum of the Royal College of Surgeons (Part I., comprehending Patholo- gical Preparations in spirits, No. 175), refer- ence is made to the right os humeri of a man, sixty-eight years of age, whose arm had been fractured four years before his death, and a new or false joint had been formed : and No. 176 refers to small bodies found detached in the cavity or false joint of the same spe- cimen. They are thirty or forty in number. These formations are analogous to the effects of inflammation in a bursa or joint ; and, indeed, it must be expected, that while ligamentous union is equivalent to soft anky- losis, all the appearances which an adventi- tious synovial joint may assume, may also be met with in anormal states of joints and bursae. The reader may perceive, from what has been advanced on the subject of reunion.