289 FRACTURE. cept to ascertain from day to day that the splints and bandages maintain the reduction, and do not cause pain. If the limb has been kept quiet, and the apparatus has not become loosened, the risk should not be incurred of disturbing the fragments, and interrupting the progress of their consolidation, by unnecessa- rily removing the apparatus. In all fractures, it is agood general rule not to disturb the appa- ratus more frequently than the particular cir- cumstances of the case render necessary. On the other hand, the surgeon should carefully inspect the limb from day to day ; and if he de- tect any displacement of the fragments, or find the bandages, &c. loose, he should, as gently as possible, remove and reapply them as at first, after having nicely readjusted the fracture, when any deformity exists. In some few cases of simple fracture, where the contusion of the soft parts approaches that which would remove them to the category of fractures complicated with contusion, it will be advisa- ble to apply compresses wet with cold water, or an evaporating lotion, on the fractured part of the limb ; to keep the patient’s bowels open with saline aperients, and to restrict him for some days to low diet. When it is to be feared that a simple fracture may be rendered open by violence or slough- ing, every precaution should be adopted to prevent this occurrence. Cases are often met with in which the wound is not contused to such a degree as to preclude the hope of union by the first intention, attended with the great advantage of the conversion of the compound into a simple fracture. Wherever there is a chance of attaining this most desirable end, the attempt to secure it should be made, by cleansing the wound, and placing and care- fully supporting its lips in nice contact. The measure recommended by Sir A. Cooper for this purpose, which consists in preserving the contact of the lips of the wound by a piece of lint, wet in the patient’s blood and allowed to dry on the wound, is found very effectual in practice. The following case came under my care, in the Richmond Surgical Hospital, a few months ago. A healthy young man, named James Cuddy, fell from a scaffold into the street, about the height of twenty feet. When brought into the hospital, immediately after the accident, he was in a state of collapse from the shock of the fall. He was severely bruised over the right hip, but his principal complaint was of the right elbow and fore- arm. The lower extremity of the radius and ulna could be readily moved on one an- other, indicating rupture of the connecting ligaments; the radius was broken about two inches below its head ; l believe there was also a fracture of the coronoid process of the ulna ; and all the ligaments connecting the upper extremity of that bone to the radius and hu- merus being completely torn, it was dislo- cated backwards. A wound nearly three inches long ran from the elbow joint down- wards, parallel to and a little on the outside of the posterior edge of the ulna. The cellu- VOL. II. lar tissue for some distance round the wound was emphysematous. I reduced the disloca- tion and the fracture without the least diffi- culty. The lips of the wound were brought together, and the fore-arm being bent on the arm at a right-angle, they were placed, after being lightly covered with compresses and bandage wet with an evaporating lotion, in a right-angled tin splint hollowed to receive the posterior part of the limb. I anticipated high inflammation and severe constitutional disturbance, neither of which occurred, and the recovery, with, of course, limited motion in the joint at the time of his quitting the hospital, took place, without his having had a single bad symptom. The happy event of this case was in a great degree owing to the fact that the wound did not communicate either with the fracture or the joint. Had this been otherwise, the history of the case would, without doubt, have been very differ- ent. With the exception of the cases just speci- fied, we may, in simple fractures, either at the first, or at any subsequent period of the treat- ment, have recourse to the starched bandage. If the patient be unmanageable, so that we ex- perience difficulty in maintaining the reduc- tion of the fragments with the ordinary appa- ratus, or if there be a probability that his gene- ral health will suffer from the long confine- ment ; or if we have reason to fear the occur- rence of excoriation, ulceration, or mortifica- tion of soft parts over the sacrum, heel, or any other prominent part on which the weight of the body or limb bears ; or if the peculiar facilities of the case allow of unusual liberty to the patient, we have good reason to em- ploy, or make trial of the starch apparatus. In open fractures, we meet with every variety of case, from one differing but little from the severer cases of simple frac- ture, to one in which the injury to the bone and soft parts is so great as to leave no rea- sonable probability of preserving the life of the patient, without having recourse to the immediate amputation of the limb. I have already spoken of open or exposed fractures as proceeding from several causes :— from one of the fragments of the bone being driven through the integuments ; from the body that produces the fracture penetrating to the bone ; from the soft parts over the seat of the fracture being so contused that in a few days they slough and expose the bone ; from the formation and opening of abscess at the seat of the fracture ; and from the pres- sure of a fragment, causing the ulceration or sloughing of the integuments stretched over it. When a fracture threatens to become open from the last mentioned cause, this serious aggravation of the case may almost always be prevented, by proper attention, and skill in reducing and maintaining the reduc- tion of the fragments ; sometimes, when the lower extremity of the upper fragment presses upon the integuments so as to threaten their ulceration, a simple change of the position U