72 ALVINE CONCRETION. tions were made, experiments as to the chemical nature of these substances have been published by Dr. Marcet, Robiquet of Paris, and Drs. Ure1 and Turner of Lon- don 2. According to Marcet, concretions, from the alimentary canal, consist of—in 100 parts, 25’20 animal matter ; 3’90 resin ; 5’16 am- moniaco-magnesian phosphate ; 45’34 phos- phate of lime ; and 20’30 vegetable fibres. The vegetable fibres were cemented together by deposits of earthy matter. Causes which give rise to the formation of con- cretions in the alimentary canal.—In the com- mencement of this article we alluded to some of the causes that favour the retention and increase of these concretions. The greater number of them being composed of fibres of the indigestible part of the food, of particles of sand, clay, or other extraneous bodies, and being most frequent in Scotland and Lanca- shire, where a good deal of oaten cake is used as food, it is legitimate to infer that this kind of food gives origin to the formation of such concretion. But this fact is not alone suffi- cient to account for their production, because, if it were, all persons that take such kind of food would be liable to suffer from the dis- ease. Two other causes are therefore probably superadded, viz.—a very weak state of the function of digestion, and also the presence of a nucleus which has been swallowed, and is retained for some time within the alimentary tube, the mucous coat of which is thereby much irritated, and its vessels, instead of se- creting a healthy mucous fluid, secretes a very viscid mucus, which cements together the different indigestible particles that have been swallowed. After a small concretion has thus been formed, it rapidly increases in bulk, in conse- quence of successive layers being added to it. Among the higher orders of society, the taking magnesia for some time has often occa- sioned much irritation and derangement in the functions of the alimentary canal, be- cause, when this magnesia does not meet with an acid to favour its discharge by stool, it meets with fresh quantities of the same earth, and a concretion is at length formed, which, in some instances, has attained very consider- able bulk. It seems not unimportant to at- tend to these causes of the formation of ali- mentary concretions, because they show—1. The pernicious effects which sometimes result from swallowing cherry stones, or those of other fruits, or the seeds or husks of fruits, small fragments of bone, pins, and other extraneous substances. 2. The risk which individuals, afflicted by this disorder in its milder forms, when the concretion within the intestine is small and moveable, and may be discharged by the anus,incur, from continuing to live on oaten bread, or other kind of food which is indi- 1 Vide Dr. lire’s Chemical Dictionary. 2 Vide Dr. Turner’s Chemistry. gestible, and may afford additional matter to the concretion. 3. The impropriety of giving horses the refuse of the flour, which is mixed with sand or particles of clay, a practice com- mon amongst millers : and, 4. They prove to the grazier the necessity of rubbing the skins of oxen, cows, or calves, so as to remove alHoose hairs, which the animal otherwise might lick off and swallow, and which, by concreting, form a nucleus, or add to the bulk of a small concretion within the alimentary canal. Lastly, in the case in which there is reason to suspect that where the concretion formed within the human alimentary tube consists chiefly of magnesia, the growth of it may perhaps be obviated, by giving up the use of magnesia, or by giving diluted sulphuric acid, which prevents the formation of such concre- tions, as, when combined with magnesia, it proves a purgative salt ; such a precaution may, however, be deemed superfluous, as magnesia is generally given to remove acidity of stomach. It is also evident that those concretions which consist of coagulable lymph, and which are not unfrequently found in the intestines of persons who have died from dysentery, are occasioned by inflammation of the mucous membrane of that tube, and the formation of such concretions may be obviated by the antiphlogistic regimen. The formation of those concretions which contain a good deal of oily matter, has been imputed to oleaginous matter which has been swallowed, and which has not undergone the necessary changes within the primce vice. It is not improbable that they are formed by the secretion of an oleaginous substance, or by a chemical change on the faeculent matter after it has passed into the caput caecum coli, or colon, for fat, in a concrete state, or in a state of fluidity, has occasionally been discharged by stool, by persons of different ages. Of the Symptoms.—Substances in their course through the alimentary canal may not excite any symptom whatever ; or they may be ac- companied by sensations of extreme anguish. Alvine concretions prove a source of much ir- ritation, and impair the functions of the sto- mach and intestines, exciting pain of variable intensity, sensibility of the entire abdomen, nausea, and severe vomiting; distention of the alimentary tube, inflammation, looseness with much griping, or constipation with tenesmus and tormina; hiccup,&c., the symptomshaving a general resemblance to those produced by a strangulated hernia. The pain in the bowels is, in some cases, fixed to one part, being much more severe at one time than another, espe- cially after taking acids, or food of difficult di- gestion ; the ingestion of these substances is frequently followed by nausea and vomiting ; dry skin ; furred tongue ; quick pulse, and other febrile symptoms, which, however, are transitory. Some patients are constipated for two or three days, and have, notwithstanding, a constant inclination to go to stool. Such is the case, more particularly, when the foreign body is stopped in the colon, or rectum, the 12