BLISTER. 476 of a rheumatismal character, or occurring me- tastatically, as after scarlatina. In internal ear-ache, if after the employment of blood- letting, and other active means, the discharge continues, with dull pain deep in the ear, or in the site of the mastoid process, the applica- tion of a blister once or twice, is often followed with abatement, and ultimate cessation of the discharge, says Dr. Craigie. While in otitis, blisters have been found to aggravate the dis- ease, and are reported to have produced, in some instances, when applied for a different purpose, inflammation of the auditory tube. c. In inflammation of the synovial mem- brane of joints, blistering is advantageous, but requires to be often renewed. The blister should be of a considerable size ; and if the affection be deep-seated, ought to be applied so as to embrace the sides of the articulation, because in that situation the capsule is covered only with a very thin aponeurotic expansion, cellular tissue, and skin. Where the affection is not deep-seated the blister is frequently of more service, according to Sir Benjamin Brodie, when applied at a little distance. For example ; if the synovial membrane of the hip be inflamed, the blister may be placed on the groin and nates ; but if it be the wrist- joint which is affected, on the lower part of the fore-arm. Under this treatment, the pain is usually relieved, and the swelling, in a few days, greatly diminished. Even when the tumour is solid, arising from the effusion of coagulable lymph, it will, in a considerable degree, subside, and sometimes be entirely dispersed, provided the lymph has not become organized'. However beneficial blistering may be, it ought never to be employed in such cases without the previous abstraction of blood, except where the signs of inflammation are almost null, and where the fluid is simply serum. The same line of treatment may be pursued in inflammation of the bursae mucosae, and of the membranes forming the sheaths of tendons, in the early stage of the disease pre- ceded by leeches, and cooling lotions, as also at a more advanced period, when the preter- natural secretion of fluid continues after sub- sidence of the inflammation. d. In phlegmonous erysipelas, blistering has been recommended by a French surgeon, M. Petit of Lyons, applied over the centre of the blush. It is said to favour the resolution of the inflammation of the cellular tissue1 2. MM. Patissierand Olivier have drawn up some observations on the subject, deduced from the hospital practice of Dupuytrcn, in corroboration of the efficacy of the practice in the second period of the disease. The presence of gastro- enteritic symptoms is said by Lisfranc to be a contra-indication to its use. e. In inflammation of the lymphatic glands, and more especially in those of the groin. In 1 Tieatisc on Diseases of the Joints, p. 3fl. 2 The effect of blisters enveloping an entire limb in inflammation of the absorbents as recommended by M. Velpeau, has been already noticed in the article, Angkioleucitis. cases of torpid bubo, blistering may act either in preventing the formation of matter, or in promoting its absorption, if already formed. I have seen patients labouring under this affec- tion, where purulent fluctuation was distinctly perceptible, to whom a blister was applied, and the blistered surface subsequently dressed with lint, soaked in a solution of sublimate (one scruple to an ounce of distilled water). The result being a gradual transudation of the pus through the skin, and a perfect cure in eight or ten days. f. In chronic catarrhal inflammation of the bladder, repeated blistering of the loins some- times relieves the sense of internal heat and pain, and moderates the quantity of mucus discharged. Care must be taken, however, to guard against absorption of the cantharadine in such cases. 2. In paralytic affections, as in amaurosis, independent of organic lesion, the use of blis- tering has been advocated by Dupuytren and Guersent. And, certainly, where the anti- phlogistic treatment, and a fair trial of mer- cury have failed to do good, blisters may be tried, sometimes as temporary irritants only, in others as irritants and drains. Mr. Law- rence recommends a succession of blisters, applying a new one to a fresh surface every five, six, or seven days, either behind the ears, or at the side or back of the neck'. Professor Rosas of Vienna, advises, in what he denomi- nates amaurosis torpida, the application to be made to the outside of the orbit, or over the scalp 2. 3. Blisters are occasionally employed as a preventive measure against metastatic abs- cess, and also for promoting the maturation when pus is already formed. They afford likewise a useful drain in the healing up of old sores. Application.—Blisters may be applied to any part of the surface, provided its epidermis be moderately thin. The precise spot depends on the indication we desire to fulfil. If the part selected be covered with hair, it ought to be previously shaven, otherwise vesication is im- perfect, and the subsequent dressings occasion needless pain. The epispastic material may be spread on adhesive plaster, or leather, but I am disposed to consider the former prefer- able ; and after being applied may be lightly, supported, if necessary, with the turn ot a roller. All constriction must be avoided, as tending to impede the action of the remedy. After remaining in contact for six, nine, or twelve hours, according to circumstances, it may be removed. Should it not have pro- duced the full effect, a complete blister will be raised by covering the part with lint, spreail with fresh cerate, or with a soft warm poultice. The patient thus escapes the irritant action upon the neck of the bladder, which is apt to follow the prolonged application of the can- tharides. A great improvement, introduced 1 Op. cit. p. 25.0. 2 Lelire von den Augcnkrankhcitcn, p. 05.