2t8 ANEURISM. the proper steps to enable him to command the haemorrhage during the operation. Some doubt has been entertained as to the course which it may be best to pursue with regard to the extravasated blood: some surgeons being of opinion that it ought to be evacuated through incisions made for the purpose ; others, that it should not be inter- fered with. It is scarcely possible to decide the point in a general manner. Small effu- sions may safely be left to themselves ; and in large ones, the admission of air may be attended with the worst effects. The ur- gency of a case, however, may now and then be mitigated, and the excessive tension re- lieved by a partial evacuation of the effused blood, especially if it should be accumulated at one point. The practice, however, is full of hazard, and even though the wounded vessel should have been secured, affords but a slender chance against the supervention of gangrene, or the necessity of amputation. {James War drop.') VARICOSE ANEURISM. In this form of aneurism, which is a variety of the traumatic, both a vein and artery are wounded, and a communication is thus esta- blished between them. There is some confusion in the application of this term. By some it is taken as referring to the tumour which is sometimes formed between the wounded artery and vein ; the term aneurismal varix being applied to the dilatation of the vein. This confusion of terms, is, however, easily avoided, the acci- dental intermediary tumour is simply a cir- cumscribed false aneurism, while the dilata- tion produced by the diversion of the arterial current into the vein, constitutes the varicose aneurism. This affection can only occur where a vein and artery of some size lie close together. It is observed most frequently at the bend of the arm, and is produced in the following manner ; in the operation of phlebotomy, the surgeon, from want of due care in ascertaining the position of the brachial artery, and its relation to the vein which is to be opened, not only carries the point of the lancet through both sides of the vein, but punctures the sub- jacent artery. The arterial blood finds an exit through the wound, either into the sur- rounding cellular membrane, forming a false aneurism, or it may pass directly into the vein, forming the varicose aneurism (see fig. 74) ; or again, the circumscribed false aneurism of the artery may communicate with the poste- rior wound of the vein, in which case, a cir- cumscribed false aneurism, and an aneurismal varix or varicose aneurism co-exist. Varicose aneurism may, however, be pro- duced in a variety of ways. Mr. Hodgson relates two cases, one observed by himself, in the ham, which had been caused by a pistol- shot ; the other, communicated to him by Mr. Barnes of Exeter, in which the femoral artery and vein were wounded about four inches below Poupart’s ligament, by the point of a heated iron rod. Fig. 74. Fig. 74 presents the preparation of a varicose aneur- ism of the brachial artery, which had been caused by a wound inflicted with the point of a knife, on an adult; a. the cardiac; b, the capillary extremity of the artery ; c, the opening of communication between the artery and vein ; d d, the collateral arteries di- lated, through which the blood found a passage into the vein; e, the dilatation of the vein forming the external tumour ; f the cardiac; g, the capillary end of the vein ; h, the valves of the vein, which limited the extension of the tumour downwards. The pa- rities of the vein were extremely strong, apparently flbrous, and four or five times their natural thick- ness. All the veins in the upper part of the limb ivere greatly, but uniformly dilated. The arroiv- points indicate the direction of the current of the blood. Larrey of Toulouse saw a case of varicose aneurism, which had been occasioned by a sabre wound of the popliteal vein and artery. The tumour, after a few years, had attained the size of two fists, and it was deemed neces- sary to perform amputation, which was suc- cessful. The sac was formed by the distended vein, at the bottom of which the opening of communication with the artery was observed. The nephew of this surgeon, Baron Larrey, in his Memoires de Chirurgie MUitaire, relates a case of varicose aneurism of large size, caused by a sabre stab : part of the attach- ment of the sterno-mastoid muscle was di- vided with the anterior scalenus, the subcla- vian artery and vein were wounded deep un- der the clavicle, and probably also a portion of the brachial plexus.