BRONCHOTOMY. 510 opinion in favour of the introduction of an elastic tube through the nostril into the pharynx, as will be hereafter described. In answ er to the first, if we reflect on the mode in which a body enters the larynx, we shall see that its expulsion per vias naturales is highly improbable, although certainly some rare cases have been advanced in which it has taken place. (For instance, Nooth gives a case where a leaden shot was expectorated : Hochsteten, a Portugal ducat: Howship, an iron nail : and Abercrombie, a tooth.) The organs of deglutition are so formed, and their vital endowments such, that no substance can pass into the air passages in simple swallow- ing, and accordingly we find that this accident occurs, either when a full inspiration is taken, some loose body being in the mouth, or when from haste in eating, the actions of inspiration and swallowing are combined. Now the rima glottidis being enlarged during inspiration, and contracted during expiration, it is obvious that a body may readily enter the larynx, and its expulsion be prevented by the diminished diameter of the rima:—further, it could hardly approach the glottis, without producing vio- lent cough, during which the rima is still more contracted :—again, if the body be irregular, the chances are against its being propelled in exactly the proper direction :—and, lastly, there is very great probability of its becoming entangled in the larynx. These considera- tions apply with peculiar force against the employment of therapeutic means to effect the expectoration of the body ; even in the most chronic cases, errhines, emetics, &c., are at the best useless, and in recent cases they must be dreadfully hazardous. A sudden con- vulsion may kill the patient, while we are waiting for their action ; or the paroxysms of cough they excite be so intense, that conges- tion of the brain, or rupture of the air-cells are probably produced: or the patient is so much convulsed that the successful perform- ance of the operation is rendered almost im- possible. In answer to the second objection, the patient is liable at any time to sudden suf- focation from the foreign body becoming en- tangled in the rima during a fit of coughing : to apoplexy or convulsions from derangement in the cerebral circulation, owing to violent cough ; and to emphysema of the lung from the same cause : to chronic bronchitis and its effects : to acute pneumonia: the formation of pulmonary abscess : to haemoptysis : or they die with consumptive symptoms arising from the protracted irritation. Again, even if the foreign body be expectorated, recovery by no means invariably follows, the patient dying either of the injury the brain has suf- fered, or the effects produced on the lungs and general system. Of seventeen cases col- lated by Dr. Stokes, in which the body was expectorated, one patient died after many months with abscess of the left lung: in another death soon followed the expectoration: in ano- ther the body was expectorated after two years, but death ensued with symptoms of phthisis : in another, it was expectorated after thirty- one months, but the cough and expectoration continued, great susceptibility to bronchitis, haemoptysis supervened, and death in the early part of the fourth year from the acci- dent : in another it was expectorated after seventeen years, but hectic and emaciation followed, and death in a year and a half after- wards. Of ten who recovered, in one the body remained fifteen years, in another seven, in another two and a half, in another four months, but the patient remained for many years subject to pain, cough, and haemoptysis. As to Desault’s proposal, it must be remem- bered that the distress of the patient in gene- ral arises not from obstruction to the passage of air, but from the irritation of the foreign body, exciting some of the evils just enume- rated, or spasmodic action of the laryngeal muscles. Either of these evils, his tubes are calculated to increase. If mechanical obstruc- tion cause the distress, and the body be impacted in the larynx, the passage of a tube is likely to be mischievous, by forcing the substance through the delicate structures, or by exciting a cough, which may throw it into the rima, and instantly kill the patient. If the body bo in one of the bronchi, Desault’s tubes evidently cannot remove it, and its removal is the only way to remove the obstruction it produces. I am aware that at the last meeting of the Royal Medico-Chirurgical Society, during the discussion on a paper by Mr. Travers, jun., several members opposed the performance of bronchotomy for the removal of foreign bodies, chiefly on the ground of their occa- sional expectoration. But as I have shown that recovery by no means invariably follows such expectoration, even if it do occur, and as I have never met with, or read of a case, where death did not ultimately result from pulmonary disease apparently connected with the protracted irritation of the extraneous substance, it appears evident that when a foreign body has entered the windpipe, the sooner bronchotomy is performed the better ; and no delay should take place on account of the little distress the patient may at the time be suffering, for the attacks of dyspnoea, &c., are at first intermittent, and it is not uncom- mon for a child soon after the paroxysm to appear perfectly well, cheerful, and playful. But as the irritation becomes permanent, we have those symptoms, which some suppose necessary to justify the operation, arising from the inflammation which has been set up, and which even the removal of the cause may be too late to check. But before proceeding to operate, the surgeon must be convinced of the existence of the foreign body in the tube. It may have lodged in the pharynx, or oeso- phagus, but of this he can soon satisfy himself by the introduction of his finger, a bougie, or probang ; and its presence in the air tube may be discovered by the symptoms, and physical signs. The symptoms will vary, 1st, with the sensible and chemical properties of the body ; thus a small smooth substance will produce far 7