239 FRACTURE. discharged by the same aperture through w hich the pus itself escapes. In some instances, however, where the substance is comparatively harmless, from its size, form, or composition, the surrounding tissues become modified in their properties, and allow of its continued presence without marked disorder or inconvenience. Organi- zable lymph is effused around the foreign body, the cellular tissue in its neighbourhood is thickened and indurated, and a sac or cyst is formed, which is either in direct contact with the extraneous body, or separated from it, and merely by serum, the quantity of which is usually very small, though occasion- ally very considerable. Under certain cir- cumstances foreign bodies will be diminished in bulk, or will completely disappear by ab- sorption ; in some cases being chemically de- composed ; in others, dissolved by the fluids thrown out under the irritation excited by their presence. They sometimes serve as the nuclei of abnormal deposits, or of tumours, simple or malignant. The possibility of the organization of foreign bodies is a question not yet settled, though there can be no doubt that portions of living tissues placed in con- tact with those of another animal will become agglutinated, or contract a vital adhesion to each other j but this applies to organized bodies alone. The remote effects are referable to the disturbance of the functions of important organs, and the sympathetic fever set up by the local irritation, which will vary with the constitution of the patient, his state of health, and the nature and seat of the foreign body. The general indications of treatment are : first, to remove the foreign body, if possible, by extraction or otherwise ; and secondly, to moderate and relieve the effects produced. The means of fulfilling these indications will be pointed out in treating of the effects of their presence in the different organs of the body. FRACTURE. (KXd<ri£, Karaypa, Gr. Frac- tura, Lat., a fracture, from frango, I break. Bein-Bruch, Ger.) The solution of con- tinuity, or division, or separation of parts of a bone, by rupture, is called a frac- ture. The ordinary cause of fracture is violence from without; more rarely, mus- cular effort is the cause ; and occasionally, doubtless, these two causes act in concert, as when the patella or olecranon is simultane- ously struck and drawn upon by its extensor muscles. A bone may be divided by absorp- tion, as in consequence of the pressure of a tumour, and it is the consideration of this cir- cumstance which makes the term rupture a necessary part of the systematic definition of fracture. In every case of division of bone, we shall find either a reparative, or a disorganizing train of events, the history of which is replete with the liveliest interest to the right-minded surgeon. In the extensive field of surgery there are not many departments, in which our noble art is capable of conferring greater or more fre- quent benefits on humanity, than in that which relates to fractures. In cases of every day’s occurrence, well directed art will restore its natural strength, and form, and functions, to a fractured bone ; which ignorance, or unaided nature, would leave shortened and deformed, with the harmony between the moving powers and the joints so broken, by the change of the relative situations of the muscles and bones, as greatly to impair the usefulness of an entire limb. Even in cases apparently trivial, as in a simple rupture of so small a bone as the patella, or a fracture of the lower extremity of the fibula, a skilful surgeon will effect a perfect cure, where, without his in- terference, there would be irremediable dis- tortion and weakness; and in cases of ex- treme severity, a bold and judicious operation will substitute a simple wound, with a fair prospect of speedy recovery, for a compli- cated injury, which, left to nature, would lead to certain death, with perhaps far more suffer- ing than the knife inflicts. Fig. 273. Femur broken with much displacement and erroneous union. One broken end has undergone the process which follows amputation, the oilier adheres by bone to the side of the upper fragment, the periosteum of which has been pressed by the broken bone, absorbed at a central part, and inflamed around, so as to cause the formation of new bone, which together with that on the opposing broken end has consolidated the union. Let not the surgical student fall into the gross error,so stronglyandjustly reprobated by Pott, of supposing that the treatment of frac-