G4.9 CANCER, TREATMENT OF. structures are declared to be identical. Again, we find in this author’s classification of ovarian cysts a distinct class characterized by being developed on a cancerous basis: surely, if the uiultilocular cyst be itself a cancer, this is a most, defective ground of distinction. Dr. Hodgkin on his part assuming that the multilocular ovarian cyst is the type of can- cerous structure, is obliged to include the two forms of disease in the same anatomical category; he considers that there is in fact “ no appreciable difference either in the structure and arrangement of the cysts of gum cancer and encysted ovary or in the composition of their contents” (p. 291). Ne- vertheless he formally denies the “ malignant” character of the ovarian multilocular cyst. Now he elsewhere (e. g. p. 268) makes the presence of the cystiform arrangement a test of “ malignity,” but as the disease of the ovary in question possesses this arrangement in the most distinct manner, it follows that it is “ malignanthence the same formation is at once “ malignant ” and “ non-maligrianf” For our own parts we reject multilocular cysts from the class Cancer: where pathology is made the co-groundwork of classification with anatomy, this could not be otherwise. Two opinions respecting the relation of cancer and fibrous growths have already been noticed (p. 597.) ; a third originates with Dr. Hodgkin. Presuming further on the infalli- bility of his test of “ malignity,” this observer affirms that in consequence of their “ possess- ing the structure of compound adventitious cysts,” there is inaccuracy and fallacy in ap- plying the term “ fibrous tumours” to the well known bodies developed in the parenchyma or under the serous or mucous investitures of the uterus—that these are in truth “ scirrhous malignant growths’.” This opinion, directly clashing with the experience of Meckel, Bayle, Laennec, Louis, Andral, Cruveilhier, Dupuytren, Sebastian2, R. Lee, Carswell, &c., will be fully examined in the article Fibrous Tumours. M. Cruveilhier, pushing to their extreme point his notions respecting the seat of carci- noma in the veins, affirms that in respect of structure, erectile tissue and cancer are one and the same ; that after the former has been freed from blood, and the latter from the cancerous juice, they cannot be distinguished from each other. In fact, to use his own words, “ cancer is a varicose tissue, the meshes of which are filled with cancerous juice ; vari- cose or venous erectile tissue, a cancerous structure, the meshes of which are filled with blood3.” Hence the presence of the can- cerous juice constitutes their sole distinctive character: now elsew’here this author declares xxv. (Ovairc, p. 2.) he affirms that the areolar cysts of the ovary are seated in the venous erectile rctc of that organ. ' (iuv’s Reports, vol. i. p. 334. 2 Krull, Diss. dc Nat. ct Cans. Tumor. Fibr. Uteri, p. 27. Groninga;, 183t>. 3 Livr. xxx. Veiues, p. 3. that the only difference between scirrhus and certain fibrous tumours is the charac- teristic juice of the former. The evil of bold generalization is here strikingly manifest ; for it follows from these opinions, that as fibrous and erectile tumours differ from the same by the same, they are themselves identical. Respecting melanosis we have already spoken ; for the consideration of the subject of corroding and intractable ulcers we beg to refer to the observations on cancer of the skin and uterus. Much contradictory matter has been writ- ten on the question whether “ malignity ” is inherent in and peculiar to carcinoma, or accidental and capable of being manifested under various conditions. The disputation on the subject has mainly arisen from the variety of meanings attached to the term. Uniformity of opinion cannot subsist on the point, while some designate as “malignity” the sum of the properties of cancerous tissues, others use the word as a synonym of incu- rability1 ; others with Dr. Hodgkin apply it to the combined characters of encysted structures, and the majority attach a vague meaning to it which they are totally unable to define : and yet grave authors of the latter class actually fractionize the unknown quan- tity, and write about “semi-malignity.” As the perpetuator of much misapprehension the term should, we think, be altogether given up ; if, however, it be understood as signifying the power of a morbid growth at once to assimilate different tissues to its own substance, to produce similar disease in dis- tant parts, to reappear after destruction and give rise to a peculiar cachexia, it can be justly applied to cancer alone. If the micro- scopical composition of adventitious growths be urged as an argument against this state- ment, if it be said that different properties cannot appertain ab origine to growths which are identical in the nature of their elementary constituents, we can only repeat the answer already made to Miiller’s doctrine of homolo- gousness : though the isolated microscopical fragments may be identical, the union of two or more of them produces, according to the plan of such union, perfectly different com- pounds. Even Muller himself admits that there are characters by which “ malignant ” may be distinguished from “benignant” growths, but they are only appreciable by the naked eye or with a lens, and lost under the microscope. In fact, in the present state of knowledge, chemistry and micrography would lead us into the error of confounding growths perfectly dissimilar in nature and ' “ Malignant, by which term I mean incurable ” (Travers), a notion amplified by others into the mysticism—“ a malignant disease is one in which the destructive action overbalances the restorative.” It will be perceived that according to Mr. Travers’ definition the most innocent fibrous, cartilaginous, and liponiatous tumours, as well as the tubercles of phthisis, arc all “ malignant.”