51 EAR, AND HEARING, DISEASES OF. the largest; the rest gradually diminish in size. The posterior branch or vestibular nerve, which presents a small gangliform enlarge- ment, divides into three branches, the fila- ments of which penetrate the vestibule by the small canals, occurring in three groups in its inner wall, and are distributed to the common sinus, saccule, and ampullae. The nervous filaments distributed to the cochlea, terminate in papillae on the spiral lamina. The parts of the vestibular nerve which belong to the common sinus and sac- cule expand in a fan-like manner on these bo- dies, and having penetrated their walls in very fine filaments, terminate in the nervous ex- pansions on their inner surface. The nerves of the ampullae having divided in a fork-like manner, embrace the outer sur- face, and then send their filaments into the interior of these dilatations. In the distribution and termination of the nerves of the cochlea and vestibule, there is this striking difference : the nerve of the cochlea is expanded outside the vascular lining membrane of the labyrinthic cavity. The membranous labyrinth being situated inside the vascular lining pellicle of the labyrinthic cavity, of course the vestibular nerve pierces that pellicle to arrive at the membranous labyrinth. Fig. 201. Fig. 201 represents the membranous labyrinth isolated, and the entrance of the nerves into tlus common sinus and ampullae. Blood-vessels of the labyrinth.—The princi- pal artery of the labyrinth, arteria auditiva interior, is a branch of the basilar. It enters the internal auditory meatus along with the nerve of the seventh pair, and at the bottom of it divides into two branches, the cochlear and vestibular arteries, which enter the laby- rinth with the corresponding nervous fila- ments. The stylo-mastoid artery, a branch of the posterior auricular, sends a twig to the exter- nal semicircular canal. The occipital artery also frequently sends twigs to the labyrinth. Not much is known of the veins of the labyrinth. The internal auditory artery is accompanied by a corresponding vein which carries away the blood from the labyrinth, and empties it into the superior petrosal sinus. Of the veins of the cochlea, some, according to Breschet, accompany the arteries, others enter a sinus lodged in the substance of the outer margin of the spiral lamina. Near the base of the cochlea this sinus communicates with the veins of the vestibule. Nothing is known of the absorbents of the labyrinth. (b~) Physiology of the labyrinth. Comparative anatomy and experiment com- bine to prove that the membranous labyrinth is alone the essential part of the organ of hearing ; but, for the perfect performance of the function, the other parts of the ear are indispensable accessories. Filled with endo- lymph, the membranous labyrinth receives from the perilymph which surrounds it, the sonorous undulations communicated from the tympanum through the fenestrae of the osseous labyrinth. The concretions called otoconies, which it contains, are supposed to impart to the nervous expansions in its interior vibra- tory impulses of greater intensity than a sim- ple liquid like the endolymph is calculated to do. Of the particular use of certain parts of the labyrinth, such as the semicircular tubes, no- thing certain is known. As to the cochlea, it being a part merely of the system of the osseous labyrinth, which, in the lower animals tends to disappear, its function can only be of a secondary nature. Though richly supplied with nerves, these nerves are not distributed in the same stratum of the body as the vesti- bular nerve or the optic. For these reasons I am inclined to believe the function of the cochlear nerve different from that of the ves- tibular ; but what its function may be I am not prepared to say. The power of estimating the distance and direction of sound has been attributed to cer- tain parts of the ear, but it is the mind alone which possesses this faculty. According to the strength of the impression on the nervous expansion of the membranous labyrinth, and according to the manner in which it was ne- cessary to turn the head in order to perceive the sound most distinctly, so does the mind, assisted by past experience, judge of the dis- tance and direction of the sound. Ventrilo- quism, by imitating the peculiarities which characterize sound, issuing from this or that direction or place, and at this or that distance, produces its illusive effects. (c) Exploration of the labyrinth. We have no means of physically exploring the labyrinth. The only way of making an approach to a diagnosis of its diseases is by first exploring the other parts of the ear, and ascertaining that there exists no lesion of them to explain the subjective symptoms of the case. Having thus, per exclusionem, brought home these symptoms to the laby- rinth, it remains to determine what part of this is the seat of disease. But such accuracy as is here hinted at is as yet very far from being attained. ((/) Diseases of the labyrinth. We have seen that the osseous labyrinth and fenestrae are readily involved in the dis- eases of the tympanum. The membranous labyrinth and humours must suffer more or less in such cases ; but appearances, confined to the labyrinthic cavity and its contents, which have been occasionally observed on dissection, such as vascularity of the mem- branes in the labyrinth, the presence of mat- ter, and the humours changed in quantity and consistence, would seem to indicate that in- ternal inflammation of the labyrinth may take E 2