AMPUTATION. 116 tion, and the duration of its contact, a slight de- gree of rubefaction, or vesication by the extra- vasation of serum, under the epidermis, or the formation of an eschar; three of the stages of burns. The pommade de Gondret, which con- sists of equal parts of ammonia, and mutton suet, previously melted at a slow heat, pos- sesses all these properties. Soon after it is applied, it produces redness of the skin, with pain and heat, and in fifteen or twenty minutes, the epiderm is raised into a blister, correspond- ing in extent to that of the application; if it be continued for sometime longer, an eschar is formed. In this preparation, therefore, the ractitioner has a double resource,—first of a lister, in cases where the action of cantharides might be dreaded ; secondly, of a moxa, for persons who dread that species of application too much. But whether alone, or in conjunc- tion with unctuous substances, it deserves to take an important place amongst the stimulants of the skin ; and is often employed as a reso- lutive in indolent engorgements, in chronic inflammation of the lymphatic ganglions, glands, and even of the fibrous and osseous tissues; and as a revulsive, in neuralgic and rheumatic pains. For the mode in which it is em- ployed in these cases, see Paris’s Pharmaco- logia. As a caustic, it is advantageously employed in poisoned wounds, as it decomposes the venom, and destroys, at the same time, the parts in which it had been deposited. When the patient refuses excision, or when excision is impossible, after the bite of a serpent, or rabid dog, it may deserve consideration, whether the liquid ammonia should not be preferred to the iron, at a red or white heat. One of the great advantages to be held in view, as regards this substance, is the power it gives the surgeon of varying the intensity of its effects according to the object he has in view ; thus, when he is afraid of inflammation, he may expose the parts for a few moments to the vapours of the ammonia ; in acting on an amaurotic eye, for instance. In liniments of various kinds, its effects are moderated by its combination with oils, in the proportion of a drachm or two of the ammonia to an ounce of oil; thus conjoined, it forms a liquid soap, with which frictions are made on the skin for various indications. M. Larrey, who fre- quently employs the incandescent iron in his hospital practice, often pours liquid ammonia on the eschar, with a view to lessen the pain produced by the application of the heated iron. Lavagna has recommended it in the form of an injection into the vagina, in amenor- rhoea. For this purpose, he mixed ten or twelve drops of the ammoniacal liquor, with an onnce of warm milk. The injection is used three or four times in the day. He has often succeeded in this manner in bringing on the catamenia, in the space of one, two, and at furthest in five or six days. The practice, however, is not resorted to, by English obste- tricians. It has also been found beneficial in cases of simple leucorrhoea. AMMONIAC, ammoniaci gummi, L. a/igo- viaKov, Gr., Avimoniak, Ger., gum ammoniac, Eng. The derivation is the same as that of the preceding term. The ammoniac is a gum resin, obtained by the hardening of the milky juice that flows from the heracleum gummi- ferum, a plant which grows in the sandy plains in the interior of Morocco. By more recent writers, however, especially M. Fontanier, who saw the plant growing at Yezd-Cast, in Persia, it is said to be derived from some of the species of Ferula, and is called by Lemery, ammonifera. Its use in external application is now much restricted, but it has enjoyed great reputation as a discutient in scrofulous and indolent tumours, particularly in the vicinity of the joints. Combined with mercury it forms the emplastrum hydrargyri cum ammoniaco. When dissolved in vinegar, and evaporated to a proper consistence, as in the emplastrum am- moniaci, it is sufficiently stimulant to produce an inflammation, and papular eruption of the skin. AMPULLA, Lat.; ampoule, Fr.; a small blister, or elevation, caused by the effusion of serosity under the epiderm. It is sometimes used by English authors, and universally by French, to designate the small blisters which are observed on the feet and hands, from long walking, pressure of shoes, or severe labour, such as rowing, &c.; in such cases, they are mere watery pustules, of greater or less ex- tent, over which the sense of touch is en- feebled or totally destroyed. But they are also occasioned sometimes by sudden and vio- lent pressure, as, for instance, when a part is pinched between two hard bodies ; the sero- sity in the latter case, instead of being clear, is bloody, and the colour of the ampulla is dark red. In the heat of summer, they often occur, even from slight pressure on the heel or toes ; owing to the great resistance of the epiderm in these situations, it is elevated so uniformly that their existence is not recognised until they produce tension and pain. When they are extensive, and the epiderm strong, the serosity may be retained so long that its qua- lities are altered, and it becomes very fetid; if small, the watery effusion is absorbed. In general, it is best to empty the ampullae by making small punctures ; in the extensive ones, an incision should be preferred : the soreness and inflammation arising from the retention of the serosity, should be soothed by a poultice after the removal of the macerated epiderm : the inflammation once abated, compresses wet with a solution of acetate of lead will suffice for the cure. Their appearance has some resemblance to the phlyctenes of a burn or scald, but they are at once distinguished from them on referring to the cause that produced them. ( Win. B. Costello.) AMPUTATION, from amputare, to cut off; amputation, Fr. ; Abnehnmng, Absetzung, Ger., signifies the operation of cutting off a