CAUSTICS. 752 1 Op. cit. p. 266. ’ De Houpcvillc, De la Guerison du Cancer, p. 174. incorporated with aoot and serpentary root l. In the course of a few days the whole of the ulcer was converted into a firm slough, after the separation of which a healthy sore was perceptible. But sometimes there super- vened a state of fever, accompanied with rigors, vomiting, and fainting fits, which compelled a discontinuance of the remedy. As its utility in cancerous and other intractable affections is sustained by a strong mass of facts derived from experience, various at- tempts have been made to ascertain some plan of combining it, so as to counteract its noxious agency, but in vain. It has been stated, indeed, on very good authority, that arsenic is not absorbed from a cancerous sur- face, and that consequently its topical applica- tion is not liable to produce constitutional symptoms ; but the only sure way to avoid any risk of mischief is to dilute the poison as much as possible. The powder of Rousselot consists of two parts of arsenious acid, thirty- two of sulphuret of mercury, and sixteen of dragons’ blood ; while the caustic pommade of Hellmund contains three quarters of a grain of arsenious acid in ten drachms and a half of the excipient. The latter formula has been successfully employed by MM. Heyfelderand Chelius, of Germany, in the treatment of su- perficial cancer and lupus. The following will be found a safe and convenient form for practical purposes: take of arsenious acid, finely comminuted, from four to six grains, of calomel one drachm and a half, of powdered gum arabic three drachms ; triturate these well together, and add as much distilled water as will form a soft paste. A layer of this, from a third to half a line thick, is to be ap- plied to the surface of the sore, after the crusts have been removed, and it has been well cleaned by poultices. This produces but little pain, and separates spontaneously in eight or ten days. From two to six applica- tions will generally suffice, for effecting the desired change in the organic actions of the part. By the use of a formula of this kind, various cases of bleeding fungus (not me- dullary fungus) are reported to have been cured. The author of the article “ Arsenic,” in the American Encyclopedia of Practical Medicine and Surgery, has recorded two such instances. In the one, the arm was confined in splints, and the arsenic freely ap- plied ; here the recovery was complete : in the other, likewise fungoid disease of the arm, the patient has remained well for four years. Some other cases in corroboration of this point will be found in a late number of Griifo and Walther’s Journal. For further informa- tion concerning its employment in surgery, see the article “ Arsenic.” Nitric Acid produces immediate disorgan- ization of the animal tissues ; but never pene- trates deeper than a few lines, even when its action has been concentrated during twenty- four hours upon a diseased surface. The eschar is of a yellow colour, separating spon- taneously in from fourteen to twenty days, but if poultices or unctuous dressings have been employed, in twelve days, or even sooner, provided the cauterization has been superficial. It may be advantageously re- sorted to in the case of diffuse nsevus, warty excrescences, cancrum oris, and lupus. It exercises a powerful influence in controlling the progress of sloughing phagedena. In com- mon with other corrosive acids I prefer ap- plying it, by means of a pencil of amianthus, fastened to a glass rod with platinum wire. Sulphuric Acid is one of the most violent caustics known. In virtue apparently of its superior affinity for water, it corrodes, chars, and destroys the animal textures with great rapidity. It occasions considerable pain ; and the eschar, which is of an iron-gray aspect, semi-coriaceous, and of moderate thickness, separates much about the same time as that from nitric acid. It has been recommended by Rust for removing adventitious growths situated within the mouth and fauces. To prevent its spreading, he directs the addition of a little saffron, in the proportion of eight or twelve grains to two drachms of the strong acid '. It is well adapted for the cure of en- tropium. Professor Jiingken of Berlin, by whom I have seen it employed, applies it by means of a small wooden match. The patient being seated upon a chair, as in the operation for cataract, with his head fixed by an assistant standing behind, the operator endeavours to ascertain by repeatedly opening and closing the eyelid, that point in which the relaxation is greatest, and there applies the caustic, as there the cauterization is most efficient. Im- mediately below this spot the eyelid is to be covered with lint, so as to protect it against the acid, which is continually renewed, until a deep eschar is formed, whereby the outward integument is so much shortened, as to restore the eyelid to its natural position, and to with- draw the eyelashes from the bull). The cau- terization must be frequently repeated at short intervals, in order to prove of permanent be- nefit. Its effect is often momentary. After it is terminated, the eschar is to be wiped dry with lint, and left uncovered ; and the patient directed to draw the lid outwards several times in the day. The slough sepa- rates of its own accord; meanwhile the healing of the ulcer proceeds, so that it is generally cicatrized by the time that comes away. Should the eyelid at this period still manifest some inclination to turn inwards, the cauterization must be renewed, but not until all trace of inflammation has subsided. The sulphuric acid may be resorted to with benefit in the case of ulcerated condylomata. Hydrochloric Acid is an excellent appli- cation to obstinate ulcers of the cornea. I have used it for this purpose in the concen- trated form, and also diluted with two parts of water. During the cauterization the eyc-