CONTRE-COUP. 827 has extracted from the juice of hemlock, pos- sesses intense poisonous properties, somewhat analogous to those of strychnine. Doses—mode of administration.—When co- nium is administered with a view to alleviate the pain and irritation attendant upon certain stages of syphilis and cancer, it is necessary to begin with small doses, and to increase them gradually until symptoms of poisoning begin to be manifest, or else little or no bene- fit will result from the exhibition of the medi- cine. The dose of the extract of the recent plant—the preparation ordered by the London Pharmacopoeia—is from one to six grains, which may be progressively increased to thirty grains. This preparation is objectionable, on account of the difficulty of preserving it. Most of the extract of the shops is inert, or nearly so. “ We were one day (says M. Orfila, Toxicol. Gen. ii.) in the shop of an apothecary who had several times furnished us with the extract of hemlock, which we had administered to dogs to the dose of ten drachms, without producing any serious effect. We endea- voured to prove to him that the medicine was badly prepared ; and, in order to convince him effectually, we swallowed, in the presence of several persons who happened to be in his shop, a drachm of this extract (seventy-two grains) dissolved in two drachms of water. We felt no effect from it; whilst twenty or thirty grains of the extract, wrell prepared, would have proved fatal to us. Let it be con- ceived now what advantage a person is likely to derive from such an extract, w'ho takes one or tw'o grains of it per day, or even thirty or forty, with the hope of getting rid of a scir- rhous tumour, or of any other disease.” The extract has also been applied as a topical dress- ing to cancerous sores. The tincture ordered by the Dublin and Edinburgh Colleges is a preferable form. The dose of the tincture is from xrq, to xxxnq, in any vehicle, provided it is free from acid which might neutralize the narcotic power of the medicine. Cullen, who preferred the powder, recommended large doses, observing, that the effects of the drug must be strongly marked, in order that it may prove efficacious. Conium is employed externally in the form of cataplasms and plasters. An ethereal solution of hemlock is occa- sionally inhaled with advantage in certain con- vulsive affections, and especially in asthma. ( Thomas H. Burgess.) CONJUNCTIVA. See Eye. CONTRACTION, in a pathological point of view, is usually employed to designate the anormal and permanent approximation of parts, the result of contraction of the various tissues ; as of skin and fascia in the cicatrices of burns, of fascia;, ligaments, muscles, and tendons, in many distortions of the frame. The term contraction has, however, an active signification ; and should, therefore, be con- fined to the process by which the approxima- tion, distortion, or shortening of parts is effected, and should not be applied to the pas- sive condition of a contracted or distorted limb, for which the expression contracture is, in the present day, correctly substituted.— See Contracture. CONTRACTURE. By a contracture is meant that abnormal permanent alteration in the relative position and form of a part, pro- duced by contraction. — See the articles : Ankylosis (Partial), Club-foot, Club- hand, Malformation, Rachitis, Spinal Distortion, Wry-neck, as these diseased states include the more frequent examples of contracture. CONTRE-COUP. (Contra-fissura, con- tra-fractura, repercussio, Lat.; Gegenspalt, Ger.) The solution of continuity produced in parts more or less distant from those on which a blow or shock has impinged. In its confined sense, this term would apply only to the solution of continuity of bony structures; as, for instance, when the side of a bony cavity opposite to the point struck, or any other point of the same cavity, which might be more feeble than that on which the force had fallen, is fractured. By extension, it is also applied to the ruptures or lacerations produced, by external violence, in the soft or parenchyma- tous tissues: as the brain, spinal marrow, liver, spleen, kidneys, &c. And this, it is easy to conceive, will happen whenever the whole of the force is not expended in the fracture of the more resisting structures, The excess of the momentum is then propagated from the bones to the softer structures to which they are contiguous; and in which, if it be still considerable, it causes commotion, or rupture. Both these effects of the shock may even be present at the same time; the vibrations of the concussion permeating the tissues of the organ in the mass, and producing a partial rupture of its substance at the same time. But the shock may be also communicated from an external body which is at rest, while the individual is in motion. The part which comes into violent contact may not suffer se- verely; but, if the motion be thus suddenly arrested, the internal parts which participated in the motion of the entire frame are pressed, bruised, or torn, more or less extensively, ac- cording to the velocity of the motion and the suddenness with which it has been arrested. The same thing happens in falls, when neither the bones nor their ligaments give w'ay, the shock which results from the body coming into violent contact with the ground is trans- mitted to the contiguous organs, and lesions of the same kind are produced as if these organs were directly struck or torn. In a fall on the feet, or on the buttocks, the violence of the shock is much diminished by the numerous articulations through which it is transmitted before it tells upon the vis- cera ; but the structures entering into the joints themselves arc thus often seriously in-