434 ASPHYXIA. guard (Fig. 120, 2) ; a flexible tube for re- moving the deteriorated air (Fig. 120, 3); a coil of metal tube (Fig. 120, 4), by which it is proposed to heat the atmo- spheric air previously to its introduction into the lungs; an Indian rubber bag (Fig. 121, 5) which is air-proof, and is furnished Fig. 121. with a stop-cock. With this apparatus a por- tion of the deteriorated air may be removed from the lungs in the following manner. The pipe of the mouth-guard is to be placed upon the tongue of the patient, and the guard pressed close to the lips by an assistant ; one end of the tube (Fig. 120, 3) is to be inserted into the mouth-guard, and the other into the pump ; the nostrils are then to be closed by an assistant to prevent the admission of air, and by cautiously working the pump not only deteriorated air, but also mucus or any other fluid can be removed from the windpipe. After each stroke of the pump if the fingers be re- moved from the nostrils, the pure atmospheric air will instantly rush in. This instrument will be materially assisted in its operation by the application of Leroy’s bandage, and indeed we would hesitate to make use of it, without employing at the same time alternate pressure and relaxation on the parietes of the chest. Stimulants.—With a view of exciting the action of the heart and respiratory muscles, friction over the surface of the body should be employed, particularly over the chest and extremities, either with the hand, previously covered with flour to prevent abrasion, with a flesh-brush, or with a towel. The nostrils and fauces maybe tickled with a feather dipped in spirits of hartshorn or aromatic vinegar ; or the fumes of burning sulphur or other vola- tile irritants may be held under the nostrils. With similar views, warm and stimulating fluids may be introduced into the stomach by means of a flexible tube and syringe, such as brandy and water, spirits of hartshorn and water, negus, or water containing mustard, or essence of peppermint. Stimulating enemata of turpentine, of warm spirits and water, or of water containing salt or vinegar, may also be resorted to. The injection of tobacco smoke into the rectum has been recommended ; but the uncertainty of this remedy, as well as the known depressing effects of tobacco, should deter us from its use. None of the remedies just enumerated should be employed, until some minutes after artificial respiration has been attempted. Mr. Hunter recommended the application of stimulating vapours to the interior of the lungs, but this practice has been justly condemned. Of little value also is the introduction of sponges fixed on whalebone, and impregnated with stimulating liquids into the stomach, for the purpose of more effec- tually exciting the mucous membrane of this organ ; as the simple injection of stimulating fluids will answer all the purposes we have in view, without endangering the organization of the stomach itself. “ In the Berlin transactions we find a re- commendation of the use of a ventriculi exe- cutia, or stomach-brush, to produce internal friction in the same manner. Dr. Good how- ever prefers the stomach-mop. It is hardly necessary to caution the reader against the adoption of these extravagant proposals. Nei- ther can we approve of the recommendation of the internal use of phosphorus, also recom- mended by Dr. Good on the authority of some German physicians, as one of the most power- ful stimulants yet known1.” The use of either common or galvanic elec- tricity in the different forms in which it is used in medicine, has been strongly advocated for the purpose of exciting the muscles of respi- ration, but this valuable agent is not always available, as it is seldom that an apparatus can be procured. To awake the respiratory mus- cles, electric shocks may be passed through the shoulders or chest. Dr. Ure has recom- mended that the phrenic nerve should be laid bare in the neck, and that one wire of the galvanic pile be connected with it, and another with the skin of the epigastrium, in order that the diaphragm may be stimulated to action by the galvanic current. A new method has been proposed by Le- roy : he introduced acupuncture needles, one on either side, between the eighth and ninth ribs until they penetrated a short distance into the fibres of the diaphragm ; he then com- pleted the galvanic circle by means of a pile of twenty-five or thirty pairs of plates, one inch in diameter, when the diaphragm immediately contracted and depressed the abdominal vis- cera, and an inspiration was made. The circle was then interrupted, when the diaphragm, urged by the weight of the abdominal viscera, and assisted by a gentle pressure made on the abdomen by the hand, returned to its former position, and an expiration was accomplished. By alternately repeating these operations respiration was re-induced ; but when a con- tinuous current was applied, the respiratory movements were irregular. In the experi- ments of Leroy, which were witnessed by Majendie, animals were often resuscitated after five minutes’ submersion by the applica- tion of galvanism in the manner just described. Although in the majority of cases of asphyxia 1 Roget, in Cvelopadia of Practical Medicine. 7