266 FRACTURE. is to be seen in the museum of the London College of Surgeons. The agency of the medullary membrane in the morbid or reparative changes of bone, is not unworthy of attention ; but at the same time it is manifestly not deserving of all the consideration that has been claimed for it. When cancelli are separated by a fissure, or even more serious fracture, if fair coaptation follow, the internal bony fibres slowly t liicken, unite, and become remodelled ; and when we examine the interior of a bone that has been fractured or diseased, we may discover some little, or, rarely, even great proofs of osseous thickening. As to the bony plug of some philosophers, it is comparatively rare, partial, and insignificant; and I think that those, who with myself have generally found the reunion of bone completed without the plug, are bound to consider the account doubtful, at least, as an essential part of reunion. As a physiological fact, it would be easy to show that the cancellated structure, when un- usually strained, or acted on by pressure, is capable of increased nutrition and hyper- trophy, to meet the exigency ; but that effect, in its freedom, is only proper to the surfaces of bones ; the interior being peculiarly sub- ject to the process of excavation, from the moment that the first grain of incipient ossifi- cation is apparent, until near the end of life. This grand and curious law would be out of place at this time, were it not essential to the remodelling of united fractures, which is,doubt- less, all that is to be understood by the term of definitive callus. The bond of union of broken bones, if quickly formed, is too abund- ant, and too soft ; but under all ordinary cir- cumstances it is too massive ; and hence we find a double series of changes arising, after the generally inflamed tissues are inclined to become quiescent. Motion and tension induce the continued nutrition and consolidation of the surface, and particularly ofany feeble part,which by yielding is inflamed, and so becomes addi- tionally nourished ; but the central parts of a massive reunion, whether consisting of old or new bone, or of both, have no longer their necessary share of pressure to resist, or injec- tion to nourish them, and they become atro- phic, as all unused structures do ; and this is the cause of the ultimate reopening and con- tinuous communication of the medullary tube —even though a double layer of the original shell or shaft, as sometimes happens, inter- cept the communication after the consolida- tion. Many simple fractures become first united by ligament ; that is to say, the organization of a soft bond of union precedes the ossific con- solidation of the fragments ; this, for instance, happens in all the cases of fracture in which os- sification is abundant,but union is retarded In these, a layer of ligamentous matter separates the two broken ends, which are severally encir- cled by new spongy bone. (See figs. 293 and 304.) The early ligamentous union, however, is in a manner proper to the fracture of cancel- lated bone. We may often see, where a shaft and its cancelli are transversely divided, that while ligament alone has reunited the cancellated surfaces (they being in good appo- sition), the ossification encircling eitherbroken end, beneath its periosteum, has scarcely be- gun to join with that of the opposite frag- ment. Occasionally, too, it is apparent that the superficial bony union is complete, while the ligamentous union within has scarcely begun to give place to bone ; which, however slowly, it will be found ultimately to do. These facts are to be set in opposition to the idea of bony reunion commencing in the interior of shafts. The ordinary scanty ossi- fication of cancellated bones, and the liga- mentous unions, common to many when broken, tend to the same conclusion. The conviction of the comparative inertness of adult cancellated tissue will speedily be con- firmed by the examination of repairing bones in man. It is too much to assert, that all appear- ance of a bony plug to the tube of bone at the seat of fracture, is a mere delusion, for we have already described the sealing which fol- lows amputation ; and we have yet to advert to the effect of a band of periosteum,—when deflected so as to lie upon the opening of a broken shaft,—in inducing a speedy extension of ossification in this direction, which occur- rence may have given rise to the idea of a bony plug ; I cannot, however, refrain from stating my supposition, that the bony plug, described by some as an extensive formation within the tube, can be no other than a delu- sive appearance depending on an oblique sec- tion of the uniting fragments, by which a superficial part of the shaft, or of the new bone, has been made to appear in the middle of the surface exposed for examination. The medullary membrane is, no doubt, in every sense the periosteum of the reticular fibres, but these in general are declining parts, though not always so. The knee-joint of a child being ankylosed in a fixed position may cause a new strain on its internal bony fibres, and, in consequence, while others waste, some become unequally thickened, and progressively grow in a new direction, in accordance with the new existing tension, until strong enough to resist, and then they become stationary ; or rather, the tension, still later, becomes most influential at the surface of the bones, and there produces commensu- rate hypertrophy and power of resistance, and thus the cancelli being no longer strained and freely nourished, proceed in their wonted course of atrophy, and even disappear. In a young bone, endosteitis may cause great narrowing of the medullary cavity by bony deposition. In an older bone, the result of fracture simple or open may be to turn a portion of shell inside out; that is, Assuring and displacement may leave part of the me- dullary cavity of a shaft to form the exterior