ADHESION. 59 collection of preparations of the uterine or- gans, in many of which these coarctations are very remarkable in regard to the os uteri itself. Meckel, Walthers, and Breschet have observed in women of advanced age, as also in prostitutes, the mucous surfaces entirely ob- literated by adhesion. The urinary mucous passages are also the seat of narrowing and adhesion. I have, in a calculous patient, observed two strictures in a dilated ureter which had given passage to se- veral calculi. The body of the bladder itself, and its mucous membrane, narrow's under the influence of long continued irritation. There is nothing more common than the narrowing of the urethra, either by the alterations of its submucous cellular tissue, or by membranous productions (brides) from its proper surface. The glans and prepuce adhere firmly. I lately saw a case in which I w'as obliged to dissect the prepuce from the glans; the adhesions were very firm, and a band had nearly shut up the orifice of the urethra. The patient had been on a remote station, serving as an officer in an African regiment, when he contracted the inflammation which terminated in these ad- hesions. The other mucous canals of the genito-uri- nary system have been also found obliterated. The gall-bladder and cystic duct, the pan- creatic duct, lachrymal puncta, the Eustachian tube, Steno’s duct, and those of the sublingual and submaxillary glands may be obliterated from acute, or chronic inflammation, long con- tinued. The removal of the inorganic epithelium, and the alteration of the natural secretion, must in all probability take place when the eyelids become adherent to each other and to the conjunctiva. In the cuticular excoria- tion, or scalding, as nurses term it, occurring in infants who are not properly attended to, the labia pudendi become adherent. High inflammation, with ulceration of the vagina, may be productive of the same result in this canal. Dupuytren states that his attention was requested to a woman who had suffered a rupture through the recto-vaginal partition in the course of a difficult parturition; and, upon examination sometime afterwards, he was astonished to find the vagina so much ob- literated by adhesions, that copulation wras en- tirely prevented. Cruveilhier mentions ano- ther case, in which complete adhesion of the entrance of the vagina was produced by the use of an injection of corrosive sublimate. The tendency in mucous membranes to contract adhesions, we thus see, is extremely powerful. The frequency with w'hich fistulous openings, and long sinuous tracks, are esta- blished, and the obstinacy they manifest against the means resorted to by the surgeon to procure their obliteration, is no argument to the contrary ; their resistance to adhesive action is the same as that of the natural pas- sages, and depends upon the same cause, namely, the integrity of the accidental mu- cous membrane. Curative indications of adhesion.— Having considered adhesion in a general manner as a result of inflammation, we may now advert to it as a means of fulfilling some of the most important indications in surgery. When John Hunter, in his experiments, transplanted the soft horny spur from a cock’s leg to the comb, and produced adhesion be- tween parts so naturally incongruous, he was only illustrating the vital powers, upon the action of which union by first intention de- pends. When he observed the exudation of lymph from the surfaces of the wound, and that this lymph, without which union is impos- sible, soon became penetrated by blood-ves- sels giving rise to that action which he called adhesive inflammation, he was but extending those principles, and developing, with the hand of a master, their great practical impor- tance. In our times the importance of his labours is manifested in the numerous brilliant applications which modern surgery has made of this wonderful law of the animal economy, and which constitute exclusively all those operations for the supply of deficient parts, the restoration of mutilated features, and the correction of many deformities known under the general name of Autoplasty. Nature in wielding the power of adhesion is guided in general by the intent to prevent or limit mischief, or to eliminate, by a route which the normal condition of the organism had not pro- vided, morbid products or secretions, the pre- sence of which would cause destruction. Ad- hesion is thus often the only thing needed, the point which decides for life or death. The many important purposes it becomes subser- vient to in the hands of the surgeon entitles it to rank as a therapeutic agent of the first order; and, indeed, there is no page of Bri- tish surgery to which we may refer with higher pride than that in which Hunter first developed the laws of adhesion, • and none which has had a more direct influence upon the recent progress of the art. When the cavity of an abscess is to be ob- literated, the cure of a hydrocele to be ef- fected, the circulation to be cut off from an aneurismal sac by a ligature, it is by adhesion that the surgeon accomplishes the desired object. When the cure of an aneurism is spontaneously effected, or the progress of gangrene arrested, it is to adhesion in the blood-vessels that the result is due. It is to adhesion, in fine, that we are indebted for the cure of artificial anus, the obliteration of fis- tules, and the restoration of the integrity of injured parts in whatever organ of the body the solution of continuity may occur. A principle so important and vast as adhe- sion must find extensive applications in sur- gery, which the reader will find under various heads throughout this work, and for which he is referred more particularly to those of Abdo- men, Abscess, Burns, Bone, Cicatrix, Cyst, Hare-Lip, Hernia, Hydrocele, Reunion, Rhinoplasty, Staphyloraphy, Suppura- tion, Wounds, &c. &c. Bibliography.—See the bibliography under the above-mentioned heads. Hunter, Treatise on the