ABORTION. 23 prevent the escape of blood externally, which may accumulate in the uterus to a dangerous or fatal extent. As a general proposition, I think it may be maintained, with Lcroux, that the tampon or plug is a most valuable remedy during the first five months of pregnancy. The mode of applying it is as follows :—The obstetrician moistens several small pieces of lint, calico, muslin, charpie, old silk hand- kerchief, or some other soft cloth, with vine- gar and water, or a weak solution of alumen ; he then squeezes, and oils them, and intro- duces them one by one against the os uteri. He continues to introduce them until the vagina is impacted, and pressure made against the orifice of the womb, which prevents the escape of blood, favours coagulation, and stops the haemorrhage. It is essential to fill the vagina completely, for if the plug be loose or too small, the haemorrhage will continue. It also often happens, that the vagina, in those who have had offspring, dilates in a few hours after the introduction of the plug, and the haemorrhage returns. In such cases an addi- tional quantity of lint, or soft cloth, ought to be introduced. When the urethra is firmly compressed, there may be retention of urine, and it will be necessary to remove one or more of the last pieces of lint that have been applied, which can be easily effected by the surgeon or the patient, without disturbing the rest of the plug, or the coagula formed between it and the orifice of the womb. It is not easy to determine the exact quan- tity of lint which is required to plug the vagina, which varies in dimensions, and is very dilatable, especially in married women. The rule is to fill it completely ; and, should it dilate, and the plug become loosened, to in- troduce an additional quantity of lint. In some cases, the constrictor vaginae closes the external genital fissure, though the vagina is very capacious behind this part, and renders it difficult to use the plug. In such cases, the practitioner ought to persevere until he has accomplished the object he has in view. I have* met with examples of this kind, in which an hour was employed in applying the plug efficiently. In these instances, and when the vagina is narrow and undilatable, as in women who have not borne offspring, it will be difficult, and often impracticable, to intro- duce a large piece of cloth, or of sponge, as advised by some writers. The sponge will rarely make sufficient pressure against the uterine orifice to arrest the haemorrhage, and is often removed with difficulty. It is scarcely necessary to observe, that it ought to be wetted, oiled, and firmly compressed on being introduced into the vagina. In some cases, three or four large pieces will be required to fill the vagina, and make sufficient pressure on the os uteri. The majority of women have a great objection to the operation, and, under such circumstance, its real object ought to be explained ; as also the fact, that the substance about to be introduced, cannot pass into the womb, bladder, or bowel ; in fine, that it is oidy to be placed in the passage through which the infant comes into the world. The next point of practice relates to the time at which the plug ought to be removed. This must be determined according to the circumstances of the case. Dr. Dewees ad- vises its removal at the expiration of twelve or fourteen hours; and others extend the time to twenty-four hours. The first period is, in my opinion, too short in many cases, and the second too long in many others. When the haemorrrhage has been profuse, and is followed by prostration of strength, there may be great danger of its recurring, on the removal of the tampon. The judgment of the practitioner alone will enable him to act according to the circumstances of the case. I am disposed to conclude, from my own ex- perience, that the plug may be removed in most cases at the expiration of twelve hours in summer, and of twenty-four in winter. It is to be borne in mind that decomposition of blood, membranes, &c. rapidly takes place in the vagina, on account of the heat and mois- ture of that canal; and when this commences, the coagula and clothes will become sources of irritation. I have frequently observed that, on removing the plug at the termination of twelve or twenty-four hours, the vaginal discharge was characterized by a putrid fetid odour; there was great tenderness of the vagina, and frequently an intolerance of the plug. In such cases, the employment of anodyne injections, composed of the solution of the chloruret of lime, the liquor plumbi acetatis, water, and opium, and sometimes of the com- pound solution of alumen, of our pharma- copoeia alone, or properly diluted, are of great service. These ought to be employed by means of a double syringe. As a general rule, the tampon and injections should be renewed as long as haemorrhage continues. But in some cases the former excites the contraction of the uterus, the detachment of the ovum and its appendages, and these are expelled on its removal. This event is fa- vourable when the preventives of abortion have failed ; and there is another advantage, that the vital powers are not allowed to be reduced by slow, tedious, or profuse haemor- rhage. Cold astringent and iced waters are some- times injected into the vagina or the rectum, but these are rarely borne, and are now sel- dom employed in this country. Cold lotions and ice are sometimes applied to the hypo- gastric region. Nurses employ vinegar and water, over the inferior part of the abdomen, as an astringent ; and it sometimes happens that the haemorrhage ceases, when the effect is ascribed to the applications. Cold acidulous drinks are generally prescribed by obstetri- cians. When the orifice of the uterus is dilated, and the uterine action is energetic, after the preceding remedies have been judiciously employed, abortion, or premature labour, as