CANCER, PHYSIOLOGY OF. GOG exhibition from the serous substance. 2 Rev. Medicare, lfi'25, vol. i. p. 357. notions are very widely opposed, there can be little doubt of the reality of the alleged fact; their explanation differs however : that of Dr. Carswell we have just seen : accord- ing to the French pathologist the venous capillaries are in the hepatic granules, as elsewhere, the anatomical element primarily affected. Dr. Hodgkin on the other hand believes that the cellular membrane accom- panying the vessels and ducts is the texture in which the diseased formation commences. The judicious use of the microscope is abso- lutely required to enable us to decide with which of these opinions truth lies. The alleged fact that carcinoma is thrown out on the free surface of serous membranes, is adduced by Dr. Carswell as strongly cor- roborative of the views just stated respecting the nutritive transformation of the tissue of organs, for the distinction between the pro- cesses of nutrition and secretion is merely nominal. The analogy is, no doubt, strong ; but the production of cancerous matter on free serous surfaces—we have ourselves never seen a specimen in which the morbid forma- tion distinctly occupied this situation—is, to say the least, an extremely rare phenomenon. Indubitably, the vast majority of growths con- nected with serous tissues are developed in the cellular membrane beneath them ; this we have had frequent opportunities of ascer- taining by careful dissection of incipient pleural and peritoneal patches; even the growths figured by Dr. Carswell, as illustra- ting his opinion, appear to be contained in a pouch of the distended serous membrane. Cancerous tumours of the meninges, when connected with the arachnoid, originate either in the cellular tissue between the in- ternal surface of the dura mater and the parietal portion of the serous membrane, or under its cerebral lamina ; their investment by the arachnoid is demonstrable by dissection. In such reports of cases of similar disease of the pericardium as we have met with, the morbid product is described to have been seated on the attached surface of the mem- brane *. But the question is, we admit, not one of frequency ; if carcinoma has actually been effused in a single instance into a serous cavity, Dr. Carswell’s thesis is defensible2. Persuaded of the fact, this eminent patho- logist ascribes it to the “separation” of the morbid matter from the blood. This leads us at once to consider the state of that fluid. As the subject of cancerous vitiation of the blood itself is an extremely important one, we shall lay before the reader, as concisely as 1 A case related by Dr. Blight (Med. Chir. Trans, vol. xxii. p. 17.) appears to furnish an exception to this statement. 2 Vessels have recently been spoken of as ‘ shooting into the serous cavities, as it were into space;” and, we believe, such vessels are said to contain cancerous matter occasionally. But even if these propositions shall have been proved, they will lend no support to Dr. Carswell’s notion ; there is no analogy between such mode of production of cancer and its effusion or possible, such facts as have been established respecting it, and the conclusions drawn from these by different pathologists. The earliest careful observations respecting the presence of cancerous matter in the vascular system appear to have been by M. Velpeau1. In 1824 this inquirer read an essay to the Academy of Medicine containing two cases related with much precision. In one of these an encephaloid mass appeared in the vena cava communicating with similar structure in the kidney ; and an enormous coagulum ex- tending from the iliac veins through the cava inferior to the right auricle, presented from place to place the characters of encephaloid matter of varying firmness. The coagula in the heart had apparently formed after death, yet in one of them, placed between the walls of the ventricle and the tricuspid valve, was contained “ some substance of purulent or encephaloid aspect, like that contained in the kidney.” In 1829 M. Andral announced his having discovered carcinomatous matter in the trunk and minute ramifications of the pul- monary artery ; in other instances, in the branches of the vena porta, &c. In the same year M. Cruveilhier, in describing a case of cancer of the uterus and vagina, stated that on cutting the latter membrane slantingly, he ascertained, with the aid of a lens, that the venous areolae of the vaginal mucous mem- brane were crammed with encephaloid easily expressible from their interior. M. Berard’s observations in the same direction have al- ready been noticed. These facts are all evidently referrible to the same category, and simply prove the presence of carcinoma in the interior of the venous system. But the inferences drawn from them are in each instance different. M. Velpeau concluded, from an examination of all the particulars of his cases, that the encephaloid matter in the midst of the venous coagula was not a production of the internal tunic of the vessels, (that tunic was healthy, and not closely connected with the adventitious pro- duct,) but actually formed in those coagula; and further that the germ of all such heterologous tissues exists primitively in the blood2. M. Andral partly coincides in this opinion, main- taining that the presence of the abnormal sub- stance in the blood depends upon transforma- tion of the fibrine of the latter into the former. M. Cruveilhier discovers in the same fact, as we have already intimated, a proof that cancer is a product of secretion by the coats of the capillary veins. M. Berard entertains no doubt that in the cases observed by him the presence of the foreign formation in the veins resulted from partial destruction of their 1 Mr. Langstaff (Mod Chir. Trans, vol. viii. p. 286, 1817,) had already noticed the fact of such presence; in a case of encephaloid disease dissected by him, “6ome of the veins were filled with matter of the same consistence without its having formed any ad- hesion with their coats;” but he docs not appear to have attached any importance to the discovery.