ANKYLOSIS. 309 it commences at the connexion of the liga- ment with the periosteum. Rigidity of ligaments may be produced by long-continued rest. It is necessary to tbe healthy constitution of organs, that the func- tions, for the performance of which the}’ are destined, be duly discharged; and when these are not called adequately into play, the organ soon becomes incapable of performing them. Boyer has described another mode in which the ligaments may give rise to ankylosis. He held the opinion, which is to-day not altoge- ther without supporters, that in scrofulous white swelling the bones undergo enlarge- ment. The ligaments, he says, consequently become too short, and hence ankylosis arises. This, though incorrect as to white swelling, since the bones in that disease do not undergo enlargement, may nevertheless hold good with regard to rheumatic joints, in which it is not uncommon to see articular extremities far exceeding the natural size. Synovial membrane.—A very large propor- tion of the cases of ankylosis, both external and internal, have their origin in disease of this tissue. When synovitis continues for any length of time, a degree of inflammatory ac- tion is awakened in the sub-synovial cellular tissue and adjacent structures, in consequence ot which, deposit and thickening take place around the joint. “ In long-continued chronic synovitis,” says Mr. Wickham, “ a deposit is often observed into the ligamentous tissue which invests the capsule, and into the cellu- lar membrane which surrounds the joint, thus giving a degree of firmness and elasticity to the tumour.” In addition to this, the flexor muscles undergo that remarkable contraction which is witnessed in almost all joint diseases. This thickening and contraction frequently continue long after the synovial inflammation has ceased, and greatly impair the freedom and extent of motion. Internal ankylosis is sometimes produced by the formation of ad- hesions between the opposed surfaces of the synovial membrane. It is certain that the inflammation of this tissue does not ordinarily give rise to the effusion of plastic matter; but that it may do so occasionally is a well esta- blished fact. Baron Boyer unhesitatingly as- signs it as one of the modes in which ankylosis is produced, and cites from Job a Meck’ren, as being probably of this sort, a case in which a stiff joint rapidly became pliable, after being violently straightened by a fall, though pre- viously it had resisted every method of treat- ment. Dupuytren describes the synovial membrane of a joint which had been implicat ed in a fracture as red, and exhibiting long mem- branous bands of adhesion stretching across the articular cavity. Sir Benjamin Brodic states, that he has seen adhesions to each other of the reflected folds of the membrane ; and Mr. Mayo describes very clearly cases of ankylosis dependent on such adhesions. I have more than once seen bands of false mem- brane connecting opposed synovial surfaces. In one beautiful specimen, deposited in the museum of Guy’s Hospital, a thick bridle of cellular membrane of some length, stretches from the cartilaginous surface of the patella to one of the condyles of the femur ; and in another specimen, deposited in the same rich storehouse of pathological facts, a very dense and close ankylosis has been formed by adhe- sions between the synovial surfaces covering cartilage. Fig. 102. Fig. 102. Ankylosis of the tibia, astragalus, and os calcis. From the pathological collection of Mr. •Iordan of Manchester. The specimen is curious, from the great regularity of the adventitious mem- branous bands, connecting these bones with each other. The ankylosis thus formed may be very firm and unyielding, but the medium of union between the articular extremities is only cellular membrane more or less con- densed, while the ankylosis which ensues after ulceration of cartilage or bone, is usually effected either by bone or by ligamentous tis- sue. A wound of the synovial membrane, if not fatal, very frequently gives rise to anky- losis. Sir Astley Cooper, in describing the consequences of compound fracture into a joint, and of compound dislocation, says, “ The bone inflames, the cartilage becomes ulcer- ated, numerous abscesses are formed in dif- ferent parts of the joint, and at length granu- lations spring from the extremities of bone deprived of their cartilages, and fill up the cavity ; generally, these granulations become ossified, and ankylosis succeeds ; but some- times they remain of softer texture, and some degree of motion in the joint is gradually re- gained.” (Sir A. Cooper on Dislocations and fractures.) In this case the synovitis, in an indirect way, gives rise to ankylosis, by pro- pagating disease to the other articular tissues; and the same results frequently follow a syno- vitis which is not traumatic. The cartilage, from its contiguity to an inflamed tissue, ulcerates, the bone is exposed, and ankylosis