ANATOMY, MORBID. 196 In observing and describing the appearances resulting from inflammation, it is necessary to distinguish those which depend on its recent, from those which belong to its advanced state, and those which it leaves behind it, when it ceases to be in operation. It is also neces- sary to distinguish the acute from the chronic form. The phenomena of ulceration and sup- puration manifestly fall to be considered under this head ; but they necessarily require sub- division, independently of that into the acute and chronic before alluded to, seeing that there are inflammations of a specific character which greatly modify the appearance of the affected part, as well as the general and local symptoms which attend them. Thus, we have the specific ulceration of venereal origin; closely allied to which, are those produced by sibbins and yaws. The virus discharged from a glandered or farcyed horse produces an untractable, and often fatal ulceration, which also appears to be of a specific charac- ter. The ulceration with w'hich sweeps are liable to be affected from the influence of soot seems to be produced by an inflammation of a specific kind; and though designated by the term, Chimney-sweeper’s Cancer, appears to be totally distinct from those affections, which can with propriety be included under the term cancer, even in its most comprehen- sive sense, since these affections, though re- garded by some as modifications of the inflam- matory process, are unquestionably distinct from it, and form a peculiar class by them- selves. Notwithstanding the preceding le- marks, it wall be proper to observe, that parts to which some of the forms of cancer have given rise as an adventitious structure may, like parts natural to the body, become the subject of decided inflammation. This cir- cumstance may serve to accou-nt for the error of those who have fallen into the contusion above alluded to. Amongst the phenomena dependent on inflammation, it must be noticed, that there are not merely those which con- sist in alteration of the tissues affected by the morbid process : there are others dependent on the formation of a new material, which is to be regarded as the product of parts whilst under inflammation. The differences in the character of this product may be regarded as important indications of differences in the process itself. Thus, sometimes, the inflamed part pours out a fluid which has the power of coagulating, and having done so, of receiving vessels, which are elongations, or prolonga- tions of the vessels of the inflamed part. I he product of inflammation thus becomes a new structure, which is either placed upon the old, and is consequently recognisable as an added part; as, for example, when lay ers and bridles of adhesion unite the opposed sur- faces of the pleura, or the new structure may be intimately blended with the original tissue, adding to its bulk and density; as, for ex- ample, when the substance of a serous mem- brane itself appears to be thickened ; or more remarkably, w’hen a portion of cellular mem- brane having been infiltrated with this kind of product of inflammation is not only increased in bulk, but may be so altered in its structure as to lose the character of cellular membrane, and rather resemble cartilage or fibro-car- tilage. When this change has been effected, it is important not to confound it with the result of a very different process, and regard it as of the nature of scirrhus. At other times the product of inflammation, whether in the state of fluid or solid, is altogether in- capable of becoming organized, and if retained by the system, must be regarded as acting the part of a foreign body. Differences in the product of inflammation of the kind just described, have been noticed as marking the adhesive and the suppurative stages of inflam- mation, or as denoting differences in the mode of inflammation dependent on the tissue af- fected. Thus, the first, or the adhesive form has been said to belong to the serous mem- branes ; and the second or the suppurative, to the mucous. Although there can be no doubt that the one form may succeed to the other, and that different tissues are more liable to be affected by the one than by the other, it does not appear to be strictly correct to regard them either as different stages of one process, or, as consisting of modifications simply dependent on the variety of tissue affected. The character of each of these forms may be exhibited by nearly, if not quite, every living tissue, and may also exist independently of the other from the com- mencement of the attack. Whatever view may be taken of the relation which these two forms of inflammation bear to each other, it is essential to distinguish them in morbid ap- pearances, and it would doubtless be of incal- culable importance with respect to the mode of treatment, could they be satisfactorily dis- tinguished during the progress of the malady. There are many intermediate varieties be- tween these two forms of inflammation, and some curious and important phenomena ap- pear to depend on their combined operation. The term erysipelatous, which is sometimes employed to designate a particular form of inflammation, appears to require some com- ment. A difficulty appears to have arisen in consequence of the laxity and want of unifor- mity with which it has been employed. Some seem to consider it essential that a certain degree of vesication should be present ; in which case, it can only affect parts furnished with an epiderm ; others, again, employ the term as expressive of a form of inflammation, which has a considerable disposition to spread, and does so without exhibiting any distinct line of demarcation, or meeting with any ob- stacle to its progress. With some, the pro- duction of pus is held to be incompatible with erysipelas, whilst others admit a phlegmonous form of erysipelas. Sphacelus and gangrene may also be con- sidered under the head of inflammation, since, though not invariably the result of that pro- cess, they very often are so, and are always