BANDAGE. 456 be selected in the treatment of many of the mucous discharges of those passages, such as blenorrhagy, leucorrhea, catarrh of the blad- der, haemorrhoids, &c. In these cases, it is exhibited in doses varying from ten drops to a drachm, three times a day. Some practi- tioners prescribe it in gonorrhea from the very commencement, continuing its use at high doses till the suppression of the dis- charge, which is frequently effected in from three days to a week. Laennec used it suc- cessfully in large doses in a patient who suf- fered from articular pain and swelling follow- ing the suppression of a gonorrhea. The taste and smell of this medicine is ex- tremely disagreeable to many, and on this ac- count some prefer exhibiting it by the rectum. For this purpose it is dissolved in mucilage, or the yolk of egg, with the addition of a little lau- danum to quiet the gut, and cause it to be re- tained. Various modes have been resorted to, in order to disguise it when taken by the mouth ; one of these is to convert it into a solid mass by mixing it gradually with a six- teenth of its weight of calcined magnesia. In a fortnight, the transparent paste or gum thus formed may be moulded into pills, and given instead of the liquid balsam ; it is also exhi- bited in capsules \ or united with soap so as to form pills. Dr. Thorn, an American physician, recommends the pure resin obtained by distil- lation of the balsam, in the dose of from ten to twenty grains three times a day. This treat- ment, he affirms, is often heroic on the second or third day. In catarrhal affections of the bladder, it has been prescribed in equal parts with the liquor potass®, mucilage, and water, tincture of hyoscyamus being added. Although used in all stages of the mucous discharges from the urinary passages, it nevertheless is sometimes productive of inconvenience even in those cases. Copaiba is not only an irritant of the urinary passages, but in large doses a purgative, and indeed some practitioners sup- pose that its virtues in gonorrhea, &c. far from being specific, merely depend on the revulsive irritation which it produces on the intestines. In some cases, it is known to produce a sensa- tion of tingling, and even of pain in the pro- static portion of the urethra. Some authors go so far as to state that it may give rise to inflam- mation of those membranes, and that it is only in this way, that it effects a cure. When its effects as an irritant become manifest, it will be proper either to discontinue its use, or to modify them by leeching, tepid bathing, cam- phor, or opium. BANDAGE (deligatura, deligalio, fas- cia). Bandages are employed for the con- finement of dressings and other surgical re- medies in their proper situations, to restrain haemorrhage from wounded blood-vessels by 1 This method of enclosing this unpleasant medi- cine in capsules is very convenient. Those lately pre- pared by Messrs. Savory and Moore are so superior in every respect, containing more balsam, and are so flex- ible, that no difficulty is experienced in swallowing them. compression, retain in their natural position parts which have been displaced, and give support where it may be required. With reference to their materials and for- mation, they are generally divided into two classes, simple and compound bandages ; the first comprising the several dispositions of the roller, the second embracing all bandages of a complex character, such as the many tailed and uniting bandages, and those constructed with laces or buckles. They are also classed according to their various uses under the heads of confining, uniting, divisive, compressing, expellent, and re- tentive bandages. In this article bandages which are of general utility, or at least which are adapted to a number of uses, will come first under consideration, afterwards those suited to particular purposes, distributing the latter for convenience under the several heads just mentioned ; and, in order to convey more correct impressions of their application and intentions than mere description will afford, wherever illustration appears necessary, en- gravings are introduced. The materials which enter into the compo- sition of bandages, are rollers and compresses of various forms, handkerchiefs for slings and other purposes, belts of webbing or leather, secured by buckles or laces, generally sub- stituted for particular combinations of the roller, and one or two tissues of a peculiar character. Simplicity of construction is to be adhered to wherever it is compatible with a perfect accomplishment of the end desired, and with this view, rollers and handkerchiefs may, in very many cases, supersede the em- ployment of more expensive contrivances. M. Mayor of Lausanne has perhaps carried this principle to an extreme, in employing handkerchiefs alone in the formation of every variety of bandage. Many of his contri- vances are more ingenious than useful. Figs. 122, 123, and 124 (le cam long, le triangle, la cravate) represent the forms in which he folds the handkerchief preparatory Fig. 122. j [| ||lll!l!li”l|||l!|J r"«i Milk /iiilli J1 Fig. 123. Fig. 124.