45 EAR, AND HEARING, DISEASES OF. of purulent otorrhcea1. Dr. Burne 2 men- tions a case of a child two years and a half old, in which the whole osseous labyrinth was discharged from the auditory passage. This disease is sometimes the result of in- jury, most frequently it occurs in young per- sons of the scrofulous diathesis. It is also apt to occur in gouty constitutions, or in such as are tainted with syphilis. Scarlatina, mea- sles, and other inflammatory affections of the skin, as also dentition, are very frequent ex- citing causes. That form of it which termi- nates in otorrhcea, and so often occasions de- struction of the membrana tympani and ca- ries of the osseous labyrinth, is almost always connected with a cachectic state of the con- stitution—tuberculous cachexia, for instance. In the preceding accounts of the morbid ap- pearances found on dissection, the existence of tuberculous matter is alluded to. A tu- berculous state of the temporal bone is not unfrequent in such cases, and M. Vidal consi- ders the otorrhcea owing to the irritation at- tending the maturation and elimination of the tubercles. The following is a case in point: Case IX. Joseph Odin, aged 23, had been in bad health for some years, and shown sym- ptoms of phthisis. In 1834 he was attacked with lancinating pain in his right ear. In two months the pain was somewhat relieved by a scanty white purulent discharge, which ever afterwards continued. From the beginning of the attack he was deaf, and two scrofulous swellings appeared under his maxilla a year ago. On the 1st of January, 1837, he felt more than ordinarily severe pains in the ears, and the purulent discharge almost entirely ceased. He had pains in his forehead, with some transient swelling. In a few days he was affected with paralysis of the muscles of expression of the right side of his face, and was admitted under M. Chomel, on the 13th of January. The only treatment adopted was the making two caustic issues in the neck. In this state he was attacked by small-pox, of which he died on the 7th of February. On examination, the brain was found to be perfectly sound. Towards the base of the pars petrosa there was observed a whitish yel- low spot, about two square lines in extent, under the dura mater. At the point corre- sponding to this stain some solid matter, friable, of a dull-white colour, and resembling a tuberculous deposit, was lodged in the temporal bone, which it had penetrated to the depth of three or four lines. The walls of the cavity of the tympanum were found red, spongy, and moistened with purulent matter. Though there was no caries or ne- crosis, the small bones were destroyed, and the tympanic membrane also was gone. A second tuberculous mass was found entirely 1 Bright’s Reports of Medical Cases, case 66. See also an excellent paper on this subject by Dr. James Brown of Liverpool, in the Medical Gazette, Nos. for January 15th and 22nd, 1841. 2 Cyclopaedia of Practical Medicine, Art. Otitis, vol. iii. p. 222. London, 1834. filling the internal auditory canal, for nearly four lines. The trunk of the facial nerve, although unaltered in structure, was found strongly compressed between this tubercle and the bone. The auditory nerve was de- stroyed, but the fifth pair offered no appre- ciable lesion ’. As in the more advanced stage, this disease often merges into inflammation of the me- ninges and brain, the urgency of the symp- toms of the latter may cause the primary disease to be overlooked, and thus lead to injurious practice, inasmuch, as Dr. Burne observes, the bloodletting required to save the patient in the one instance would destroy him in the other; it is therefore of especial importance for the diagnosis, that attention be directed to whether the pain commenced in the ear and spread from that to the rest of the head, and whether any discharge from the ear exists or has existed, and been recent- ly suppressed. The state of the mastoid pro- cess, also should be looked to. On the other hand it is to be remembered that attention may be kept fixed on the ear, and the affection of the brain overlooked. The diagnosis of this disease in infants is beset with peculiar difficulties. A correct diagnosis is nevertheless important, inasmuch as idiopathic inflammation of the brain re- quires much more active treatment than would be necessary or safe in the disease under con- sideration, and the remedies for colic are of a nature quite contrary to what ought to be employed. The question of prognosis often regards, not so much the destruction with which the organ of sense is threatened, as the danger to life. The tendency to caries is often so great, that even in the most favour- able cases, the function of the ear is affected to a great and incurable extent; though it sometimes happens that an unexpected degree of hearing is preserved. If the inflammation have spread to the brain and its membranes, suppuration and effusion take place, and death follows. An attempt at cicatrization on the part of na- ture sometimes takes place ; a false membrane forms over the exposed inner wall of the tym- panum. The small bones, if they still exist, are drawn towards this new production, which is to be distinguished from a natural membrana tympani by being seated much deeper, and by there being seen around its circumference, especially below, the hollow of the tympanic cavity. A small quantity of purulent secre- tion constantly collects in the tympanum, which it is advisable to remove by occasional syringing with lukewarm water. By atten- tion to this, and care being taken to avoid exposure to cold, and to keep all the func- tions in as orderly a state as possible, the case may go on for years without any accident; but it is to be remembered there is always the greatest risk of a renewal of the inflam- mation. 1 London Medical Gazette, vol.xx. p.284. London, 1837.