ASPHYXIA. 441) oxygen, and others produce asphyxia by causing spasm of the glottis. The poisoning gases do not give rise to any of the symptoms of asphyxia; they produce positively deleterious effects on the system, simply as poisons. The gases which exert a negative influence on the system, are seldom collected in sufficient quantity to extinguish life, and their effects differ little from those of simple suffocation. Should a person be asphyxiated by the inhalation of any of these gases (vide causes of Asphyxia) insufflation should be performed as speedily as possible, cold water should be dashed on the head and chest, to excite the respiratory system of nerves, and to reduce the temperature to a degree of warmth more consistent with the maintenance of vital action when animation is suspended. The body should be freely ex- posed to the atmosphere at about 70° Fahren- heit, and friction and the other remedies ap- propriate to the recovery of the drowned, should be employed with the utmost assiduity. —(Royal Humane Society's Report.) Asphyxia from the respiration of carbonic acid gas.—Carbonic acid gas is frequently the cause of fatal accidents. Whenever com- bustion is going on it accumulates, and many instances of death are on record produced by the combustion of charcoal, the ventilation of the apartment having previously been im- peded. It is often present in caverns, mines, wells, and lime kilns, and in the vats in which vinous fermentation has been carried on. In brewing establishments it has often proved fatal to those who have descended into the vats incautiously. In volcanic regions, car- bonic acid gas is known to issue from fissures in the rocks in large quantities, and to collect in caverns. The Grotto del Cane, at Naples, receives its name on account of dogs being kept near the spot for the purpose of exhi- biting to travellers the effects of this gas ; the dogs are immersed in the gas collected in the lower stratum of air contained in the grotto, until asphyxia is induced. In mines it is con- stantly found diffused through a large mass of air, and is known by the name of choke-damp ; where in consequence of its greater specific gravity, it sinks to the lowest part of the mine, and hence is with much difficulty dislodged. A case is recorded by Dr. Paris', which occurred at Leighton-Buzzard, in Bedford- shire, where asphyxia was caused by the dis- charge of mephitic gas from plants. “ Mr. Sherbrook having frequently had his pinery robbed, the gardener determined to sit up and watch. He accordingly posted himself with a loaded fowling-piece, in the green- house, where it is supposed he fell asleep, and in the morning was found dead upon the ground, with all the appearance of suffocation, evidently occasioned by the discharge of mephitic gas from the plants during the night.” When pure carbonic acid gas is attempted to be inspired, it immediately produces spas- 1 Paris and Foublauque. Medical Jurisprudence. 3 modic action of the glottis. Sir Humphrey' Davy introduced into a silk bag some carbonic acid gas and attempted to inspire it; but it was in vain that he made the most powerful and repeated efforts to draw it into the trachea. It communicated a strong acid taste to the mouth and fauces, and occasioned so much painful irritation as to occasion a complete closure of the glottis. When, how- ever, the gas was diluted with about double its volume of common air, Sir Humphrey Davy was enabled to breathe it for nearly a minute, when it produced a slight degree of giddiness and an inclination to sleep. “ When the diluted gas is inhaled, it has a pernicious influence on the nervous system, and the fatal effects ensue after a shorter in- terval than when hydrogen or nitrogen only are inspired. Its influence is, apparently, of the most sedative character, and death ensues, attended with little or no suffering. The younger Berthollet committed suicide by shutting himself up in a close apartment, in which carbonic acid gas had accumulated from a coffer of charcoal. He sat calmly at the commencement of his fatal experiment, to record the sensations with which he was vi- sited, and they appear to have been just such as would have been produced by a narcotic poison. Then an illegible word occurred; and it is supposed that at this moment the fatal effects suddenly supervened, that his hand fell powerless, and he ceased to exist Mr. Snow informs me that he has inspired some pure carbonic acid gas, and that it only produced a tickling of the fauces. A most interesting case is related by Dr. Babington, in the Medico-Chirurgical Transactions, of the effects produced by the slow combustion of charcoal. The waiter of a tavern, and a little boy thirteen years of age, went to bed, and not having risen between six and seven o’clock the following morning, a person went to the chamber, and found the waiter insensi- ble, and apparently at the point of death ; the poor lad lying lifeless on the floor, and a chafing dish, containing some extinguished charcoal, at the foot of the bedstead. An at- tempt was made to restore the boy, by insuf- flation of the lungs and the use of galvanism ; but no signs of life having, after some time, been manifested, he was reluctantly aban- doned to the insensibility which oppressed him. The waiter was removed into a larger and more airy apartment; his breathing was stertorous, the countenance flushed, the lips livid, the pulse full and strong, and about ninety in a minute, and ten ounces of blood " ere therefore abstracted from his arm by his attendant. After some time (when Dr. Babington first saw him), the pulse had become weak and quick, and the respiration very imperfect; though the heat of the upper part of the body remained. The power of voluntary motion was suspended, and slight convulsive 1 Kay on Asphyxia.