467 BELLADONNA. naged by applying compresses in such a man- ner as to keep the fractured surfaces in contact, and confining them by a circular bandage car- ried round the trunk and arm, at the same time supporting the fore-arm in a sling. In fracture of the coracoid process, a com- press must be placed beneath the broken pro- cess, and secured by a circular bandage, passing obliquely across the back and breast, and over the injured shoulder, so as to draw it forward and depress it a little. The fore-arm must also be supported by a sling. Many other forms of bandage not described in the preceding pages, may be found in the works that treat of this branch of surgery; but the present article being rather a general sur- vey of the subject, than a complete enumera- tion of every variety of bandage, a multiplica- tion of means to fulfil the same end would be as much out of place here as they are in actual practice. Let a young surgeon once attain promptness and dexterity in the formation of those bandages constructed with rollers and handkerchiefs, and he will seldom feel at a loss in any case requiring such mechanical aid. But how to arrive at this practical intimacy is a question which deserves consideration. Whilst its importance is forced upon him daily, and a sedulous cultivation of it is urged both by writers and lecturers on surgery, the English student looks round him in vain for any ready means of acquiring it. Hospital practice, which can alone ensure the requisite degree of skill, can never be usefully distributed among all; but in the schools of the continent, a tolerable sub- } stitute is provided by the establishment of a public course of instruction, a person attend- ing upon whom the bandages are applied. In default of this source of instruction, parties I might assemble for the purpose of exercising i upon each other. Both hospital and private practice may thus be commenced with a greater familiarity with this branch of a surgeon’s duty, than the student often possesses after many months of dressing. Although the introduction of the names of many obsolete bandages would have interfered too much with the practical character of this article, they will be found elsewhere alpha- betically arranged, with a short description of the uses attributed to each of them in the older writers. ( Henry T. Chapman. J BDELLOMETER, from fitieWa, a leech ; and gerpov, measure. The name of an instru- ment employed to abstract blood by scarifi- cation and cupping. Its derivation indicates that the blood is obtained by suction, and that its quantity is at the same time measured.— (See Cupping.) j BELLADONNA, (Atropa Belladonna \ Lin.) the deadly nightshade. The narcotic 1 powers of the deadly nightshade have led to I lts extensive employment both internally and I externally as a remedial agent in the relief of pain. Within the last few years it has been found to exert a marked influence in subduing erysipelas. The property possessed by this plant, in common with the datura stramonium and the rest of the solanum tribe, of dilating the pupil, renders it a valuable auxiliary in ophthalmic surgery. And a supposed analogy between the action of the iris, and that of the sphincters and some other parts endowed w'ith muscular contractility, has induced some practitioners to prescribe it with the view of mitigating spasmodic contractions of such structures. The powder of the dried leaves was for- merly administered internally, and infusions or decoctions were used as external applica- tions. The extract or inspissated juice of the belladonna is now ordinarily employed. Its anodyne effects are manifested far more de- cidedly in its external application than when given internally ; in the latter case it produces an intoxicating rather than a sedative effect ; very small doses exciting the brain even to delirium. In pain arising from gouty or rheumatic inflammation of the joints, inflammations of the skin, testicles, and urethra, from hasmor- rhoids and cancerous affections, great allevi- ation may be obtained by fomenting the part with a decoction of the dried leaves, in the proportion of one ounce to two pints of water, as well as by the use of poultices made with this decoction. One or two drachms of the extract may be combined w ith a poultice as a substitute for the decoction. In chordee, fric- tion along the course of the urethra with the undiluted extract is more convenient. It is likewise employed with advantage in tooth- ache and ear-ache. In chronic inflammation of the uterus and in dysmenorrhcea, ease will frequently result from the use of injections of the decoction of belladonna, or of the diluted extract. In neuralgia the extract of belladonna has been exhibited internally with success in doses of a quarter of a grain, repeated hourly till re- lief is obtained, taking care to discontinue it immediately symptoms of dizziness manifest themselves. When superficial nerves, as the supra-orbital and those ramifying in the scalp, are the seat of pain, its efficacy applied ex- ternally is universally recognized. From ten grains to two scruples of the extract diluted with a little water should be rubbed for ten minutes into the skin immediately over the seat of pain, renewing the application every two, three, or more hours, till the pain is sub- dued. Messrs. Chevalier1, Will, and Dr. Henry relate numerous cases of tic doulou- reux in which this practice was more or less successful. In sciatica and similar affections of the more deeply seated nerves the cuticle must be removed by blistering before the belladonna can be brought to bear upon the nerve ; but, as this mode of applying it re- 1 Med. and Plivs. Journ. 1826. H ii 2