128 ENCEPHALOCELE. Another case in which a patient survived after incision is recorded by Dr. Bennett1. There was nothing abnormal at birth ; but a month afterwards a tumour appeared, first above one mastoid process and then the other, which gradually enlarging, an incision was made ; but the substance of the brain showed itself on division of the integuments, and the wound was accordingly closed. At the age of six years, the tumour was the size of an os- trich’s egg ; all sensibility was lost on its being compressed; but the general health was other- wise good, the complaints being merely of the inconvenience from the size of the tumour. At the age of eleven, the girl became so excessively lascivious, that all the efforts of her friends were required to keep her from running after the young negroes of the plan- tation, and she was constantly unnaturally ex- citing the sexual organs. She lived to the age of seventeen, and then died suddenly, after carrying a bucket of water on her head. After death, the tumour occupied two lobes, one of which was twenty-four inches in circum- ference, the other seventeen. It was formed by a portion of cerebellum passing through an opening in the left side of the occipital bone ; and another portion, of the size of an orange, through the right side. M. Thierry2 has related a very interesting case, in which a tumour, about a third of the size of the head, occupied the occipital region, and protruded to the posterior part of the neck and superior of the back. The annexed cut is stated to give a correct idea of its situation and form. mined to make an exploratory puncture, which was done on the 9th, at the most depending part of the tumour, when only about a drachm of liquid escaped ; and, though the tumour was compressed, no further discharge took place. M. Magendie, who was present, then thought it must be an isolated serous cyst, a serous cavity of many cells, or a pouch of hydatids. A stylet was passed through the canula to break up cells ; but without effect, and the canula was withdrawn. Another puncture was made in the posterior part, when upwards of three ounces of sero-sanguineous fluid escaped ; and, after removing the canula, a sanguineous liquor discharged in consider- able quantity, and a small body of moderate consistence was felt at the base of the tumour. The tumour was then opened by a long inci- sion in the median line, and the borders of the wound were everted; when it appeared that the cavity was divided into many cells. In the middle of this cavity there appeared a small tumour, covered by transparent mem- brane, which passed through an opening in the walls of the cranium. It being found im- possible to return the protruded parts into the cranium, the serous surfaces of the tumour were brought together, and three sutures passed around small pieces of ivory, as repre- sented in the subjoined sketch. Fig. 238. It was transparent and fluctuating. On com- pression, pain was produced, but no cerebral symptoms ; motion and sensation were unal- tered, and there was no stupor. It became a question, before operating, whether the case was one of encephalocele or spina bifida ; in other words, whether there was deficiency of the posterior part of the cervical vertebrae, or an opening from defective ossification of the occipital bone. The child was born Nov. 12, 1836 ; and by the 7th of December, as the skin was becoming distended, it was deter- 1 Baltimore Medical and Surgical Journal and Re- view ; January, 1834. 2 L’Experience, 20 Novembre, 1837. Fig. 239. On the 10th, the portion of skin be- hind the tumour was removed. On the 12th, the su- tures were cut, and the pieces of ivory removed. On the 16th, the wound had nearly cica- trized, but fluid still exuded on pressure. The child continued well until the 24th, when it became rapidly weaker, and died on the 26th. On dissection, it appeared that the fluid in the ventricles had no communi- cation with the tumour. It had been secreted by a multilocular membrane, which had no con- nection with the arachnoid. The annexed cut shows the disposition of the protruded parts. Fig. 240.