FRACTURE. 311 placements. He also recommends, when the fractured part is “ depressed inwards,” that a compress be applied over the anterior and posterior part of the bone, (if it may be at a distance from its fracture) ; but here again 1 conceive the violence, to be efficient, must be insupportable, and by no means safe. In simple cases the patient may soon begin to move about; and at the end of a week the bandage is not indispensable, though desira- ble ; and especially to obviate the effects of irregular efforts. Fractures of the cartilages of the ribs1.—Not- withstanding their elasticity, the cartilages of the ribs may be broken. Those only which join on to the sternum seem ever susceptible of this injury, which always presents itself in the form of a clean fracture, transverse, like that of a radish, and always the result of direct force. It is easy to recognise it by the projection of the outer portion. This part is readily pressed into its place, but even with the most studied use of graduated compresses and bandages, it is very difficult to retain it in situ ; and the reparation is almost invariably attended with evident de- formity ; which is, however, harmless. When an opportunity is offered of examining the state of these parts after consolidation, the fragments are found still cartilaginous, but united by means of an osseous ring or tube. The importance of this case depends on the violence done to the thorax. Its treatment resembles that of fractures of the ribs. It is a very uncommon accident. The separation of a costal cartilage from its ribs is an occasional occurrence, but there is little that is peculiar in the nature or course of this injury. FRACTURES OF THE CLAVICLE 2. The slender form and unprotected situation of the clavicle, render it readily liable to direct injuries and consequent fracture ; and its use as the most fixed support of the scapula, to aid in the many actions of the arm, as readily accounts for its frequent fracture by indirect violence or counter-stroke. Fractures mostly occur in the middle por- tion, more rarely in the scapular extremity. They may happen also at any point, by di- rectly concentrated force; in which case, pro- portionate injury, as contusions and commi- nution, may be expected. I have under my immediate observation twenty-two examples of broken clavicles re- paired. Of these, fifteen have been divided close to the middle, or very slightly external to this point; but two of the same have also been divided at about one inch from their outer extremities. Four other specimens have been broken transversely in the situation last named. The remaining three have been 1 See Dictionnaire de Med. et de Chir. Pratiques, Art. Fractures. a Mr. Lonsdale’s table makes these fractures to comprise \ of all the fractures that occiu’ in the vici- nity of the Middlesex hospital. fractured about one inch from their sternal ends. One of the cases said to have been broken near the middle has had about three- fourths of an inch isolated by a double trans- verse fracture, which is also split longitudi- nally into two parts. The proportions stand thus :— Clavicles broken at the middle simply 12 say | „ „ „ twice 1 !, ,, „ & outer end 2) 2 „ „ outer end only 4/ ? „ „ inner end only 3 — ^ Thus it is very evident, that the strong cylindrical arch or bow, formed by the inner half of the collar bone, is very little suscept- ible of fracture, although much exposed to direct blows. As a general rule it may be stated, that fractures take place in large pro- portion towards the outer end of this arch, and but rarely near its inner extremity. With respect to the outer half of the bone, fracture is still uncommon, and almost confined to a transverse division, about one inch from the outer point. It is said that on some occasions, as when the arms are extended in a fall, or when the fall happens directly on the point of the shoulder, the fracture of the clavicle may take place very obliquely, and the point be forced through the skin. Even the great vessels beneath the clavicle may be punctured by a fragment of the bone. When the fracture happens between the scapular extremity of the bone and the coraco- clavicular ligaments, there is little, if any, dis- cernible displacement ; the strong ligamentous bands, connecting the one portion with the acromion, and the other with the coracoid process, preserving the natural juxta-position, and sometimes so effectually that the arm is enabled to perform most of its wonted motions. A little depression of the outer fragment may frequently be observable, or may be produced by adding a little to the weight of the arm ; and this portion will appear more in the line of the clavicle when the head of the humerus is raised to the shoulder. At the same time, with one hand upon the fracture, and the other now and then elevating the shoulder, a crepitus may mostly be discovered. When the clavicle is fractured on the inner side of the coraco-clavicular ligaments, or about its middle portion, displacement is more manifest—the arm falls, dragging with it the scapular extremity ; and the depression is per- haps increased by the deltoid muscle. The patient generally bends his head and body toward the injured side, while he takes off the weight of the arm from the broken clavi- cle by supporting it at the elbow with the opposite hand. The pectorales draw the shoulder forwards and inwards, and the outer portion is thus carried beneath the inner, which projects above it. The length of the clavicle, and its support to the shoulder being no longer preserved, the arm falls forwards, and the shoulder is as much nearer the sternum as the general connexions of the