392 ARTERIES, ANOMALIES OF. metacarpal bones. In cases of this kind no pulse can be felt at the wrist, and if the surgeon were to cut down between the flexor carpi radialis and supinator longus muscles, he would find a comparatively insignificant branch (superficialis volse) instead of the principal artery. Mr. P. Bennet Lucas has described an example of this kind which fell under his notice at the North London School of Medi- cine. “ The radial immediately after its origin sent off the superficialis volae, which was very delicate, and occupied the position of the radial artery. The radial trunk itself ran very superficially, and at the junction of the middle and inferior thirds of the fore-arm, turned round the edge of the radius to the space between the metacarpal bones of the thumb and index finger.” THE ULNAR ARTERY. The ulnar artery is much less liable to pre- sent anomalies in its origin or course than the radial. When the ulnar arises above the bend of the elbow it is usually given off from the upper part of the brachial artery or even from the axillary, and, according to Burns’s authority, which however is at variance with our own experience, it commonly descends along the inner side of the arm, and above the fascia to the palm of the hand. In such a case as this the artery might readily be wounded by a careless operator during venesection, and it seems probable that in most instances where the artery has been injured, an anomaly existed similar to the one just described. In some rare cases, the ulnar artery, even when it arises at the bend of the arm, penetrates the fascia, and accompanies the basilic vein to the wrist, or as happened in a case described in the Archives Gen. (March 18*24), it passes super- ficially for the upper third of its course, and then dips under the fascia and palmaris longus muscle. Anomalies of the interosseous ar- tery are still rarer than those of the radial or ulnar artery. Sometimes the interosseous ar- tery is detached from the upper part of the humeral and descends with it to the bend of the arm, in which case it might be mistaken for the radial or ulnar arteries. Sometimes the brachial subdivides, high up, into three branches of nearly equal size, which event- ually prove to be radial, ulnar, and interosseous arteries. In two very remarkable cases, which the writer examined in Trinity College, Dub- lin, the interosseous terminated by anastomos- ing with the radial near the wrist-joint. The preceding are the chief anomalies af- fecting the vessels of the upper extremity, which are of any importance in a surgical point of view. One or two more, however, remain for enumeration. The axillary artery sometimes divides into two branches, of equal size, which run down close to one another beneath the edge of the biceps, and unite near the fold of the arm. We have seen two examples of this disposition, which has also been found in the femoral and basilar arteries. The vasa aberrantia are supernumerary ves- sels, sometimes of considerable magnitude, which arise from the subscapular, axillary, or brachial arteries, and terminate in the ulnar or (most commonly) radial. Cruveilhier has observed, that in many cases of this kind the brachial artery is situate at a greater depth than it usually is, and the vas aberrans runs either over the main trunk, or immediately beneath the brachial aponeurosis. Finally we have to direct attention to the occasional and not very rare existence of a median artery. This branch arises from some one of the arteries of the fore-arm, descends between the flexor sub- limis and profundus, in company with the me- dian nerve, and terminates in a great variety of ways in the palmar arch. In some instances which we have seen, this median artery was of very considerable magnitude. REGION OF THE ABDOMEN. The only arteries in this region, with the varieties of which the surgeon is concerned, are the epigastric and obturator arteries. The epigastric has been sometimes wounded during the operation of paracentesis abdo- minis, but more frequently this accident is occasioned by the presence of some anomalous branch, or by some deviation from the usual course of the renal. Ramsay has recorded an illustrative case ; the circumflexa ilii, which arose below Poupart’s ligament, divided into two branches; one pursued the ordinary course of the circumflex : the other ascended between the abdominal muscles, in a line mid- way between the lir.ea alba and the superior anterior spine of the ilium ; this branch wras accidentally opened during the operation of paracentesis, and gave rise to fatal haemor- rhage. An analogous case is related in Klein- ert’s Repertorium, November 1835, where the wounding of an anomalous branch of the epi- gastric was likewise attended with fatal conse- quences. But varieties of the epigastric and obturator arteries are infinitely more interest- ing on account of their relation to the various operative methods which have been proposed for the relief of strangulated hernia. Under ordinary circumstances the operation is not attended with much difficulty, but unfortu- nately both the epigastric and obturator arte- ries are so liable to deviate from their usual disposition, that the surgeon is embarrassed and perplexed by the multiplied irregularities which they present. Thus, as M. Verpillat remarks, the epigas- tric artery, which usually arises at the level of Poupart’s ligament, may be given off either above or below the femoral ring, within a space of three or four inches. In the first case, the artery might be pushed on the inner side of the hernial sac, and in the second it would necessarily be w'ounded in dividing the stric- ture from within outwards. In one very re- markable case which we have seen, the epi- gastric was given off by the profunda femoris below Poupart’s ligament, and would have lain completely in front of the sac, in a case of femoral hernia. Gunz relates a case in