286 FRACTURE. meter. The plaster will solidify in a few minutes. While still soft its surface is to be made quite smooth ; hollows of a conical form, with their base towards the limb, are to be scooped out in it; and it is to be smeared, in the manner directed with regard to the limb, with oil. Nothing now remains but to form the upper part of the mould, by pouring in fresh plaster of Paris till the whole limb is covered to a depth sufficient to ensure the requisite degree of strength in the mould. The mould has been formed in two parts with a view to admit of occasional removal of the upper part, for the inspection of the limb, during the progress of the cure. When this is desirable, or even indispensable, as it must sometimes be, the upper part of the mould must be made in a manner somewhat different from that just described. Before pouring in the plaster of which this is to be made, several strong threads, in number such as the surgeon deems requisite, are to be laid across the limb, glued nicely to the irregulari- ties of its surface by the liniment with which it is covered, then across the lower part of the mould, and over the lateral splints. The plaster is now to be poured on the limb, as directed above ; and when the mould has acquired some solidity, yet is still soft, the two ends of each thread are to be tied, as if for the purpose of forming a knot, and drawn till the part of the mould included is cut through. Thus the superior part of the mould is divided in a number of sections, each of which may be lifted at pleasure, so that the part of the limb under it may be inspected. In fractures with complications, it is obvious that this apparatus may easily be modified, so as to adapt it to the peculiarities of individual cases. If there is a wound in front, to which we wish to have easy access, we make it cor- respond to the middle of one of the sections, by lifting which the wound is exposed. If the wound is on the side or back of the limb, by making the mould with a view to enable ourselves to examine and dress the wound when we please, we can always do so with little difficulty. We have simply to provide, that a removable piece, or pieces, of the mould shall correspond to the part of the limb we wish to be able to inspect. I have neither practised this method of treat- ment, nor seen it put in practice ; but from all I have been able to learn of those who have, I do not see that it possesses any ad- vantage over the starched bandage ; while it is incompatible with the patient’s taking exercise during the treatment, which is in- contestably the greatest peculiar advantage belonging to any of the modifications of the irremovable apparatus. I cannot doubt but that this method is very inferior to M. Seutin’s. In those cases in which it possesses an apparent advantage over the latter, by its admitting of the frequent examination of the fracture, I would recommend the rejection of every form of this method, except under peculiar circumstances. These circumstances 7 belong to military surgery in the field. When these exist, what I have said in general terms respecting the cases fit for the application of the starched bandage, must be qualified; since, without doubt, fractures must often occur in military practice, in which the dangers to be apprehended from the use of the irre- movable apparatus are far more than counter- balanced by those which would inevitably attend the transport of the patient to a dis- tance over rough roads, with the limb unpro- tected from the effect of shocks, or protected only by the ordinary splints, cushions, and bandages. With regard to cases under such peculiar circumstances, it is not possible to lay down general rules of any practical value. Here, as on many other occasions, the sur- geon, however well his mind may be stored with wholesome general precepts, must, after carefully weighing the particular characters of the individual case, rely upon his own reason and discretion to guide him to the line of practice that is, not simply the best, but the best that the actual circumstances of the patient’s position admit of. M. Dieffenbach does not apply the plaster of Paris apparatus till the inflammation, which must, in a greater or less degree, supervene upon every fracture, has disappeared ; that is till the eighth or tenth day after the accident. This treatment may with safety be adopted in the same description of case that has been specified as appropriate for the employment of the starched bandage. It has been objected to on account of the heat evolved in the combination of the plaster of Paris with water, and on account of the weight of the apparatus. Neither objection is valid. The heat of the plaster, when it is setting, is never so great as to cause pain, and the weight of the apparatus is not felt by the patient, being, with the limb itself, supported by the plane on which the apparatus rests. The method of treating fractures by sus- pension (or hyponarthecia of M. Mayor of Lausanne) was invented in 1812, by M. Sau- ter. Struck by the objections to which the ordinary mode of treating fractures, especially of the lower extremity, is open—as, that the long continued compression of the bandages and splints causes wasting of the limb, and diminution of power in the muscles, from which the patient does not recover com- pletely for a considerable time ; that the long confinement of the patient is in many cases attended with serious detriment to his general health, and other evils already adverted to; that in cases of simple fracture, not demand- ing frequent examination, and concealed from the surgeon’s eye by the apparatus employed, displacement of the fragments and deformity of the limb, to a certain degree, may occur without his knowledge ; while, in complicated cases, requiring to be frequently examined and dressed, the removal and reapplication of the dressings and apparatus, and the main- taining of the limb in its position by assistants in the interim, cannot be effected without the constant risk, and often the actual occurrence