298 ANKLE. that the bursa when distended is felt more easily above and below the annular ligament, than at its middle, where it otters its greatest thickness. The anterior tibial artery with its veins and nerve passes down towards the foot, first close behind this bursa of the extensor longus pollicis pedis, then towards its outer side just before it reaches the inner side of the exten- sor brevis digitorum pedis; in this situation the artery may be tied without injuring the bursae, if great care be taken. If, on the con- trary, this vessel be laid bare while it passes behind the strongest portion of the annular ligament, or even above it, as many anatomists recommend with the idea of avoiding the bnrsa, invariably the synovial membrane of the extensor pollicis, or of the extensor com- munis digitorum pedis, will be wounded. In laying stress upon the danger of injuring these bursae which are situated near the artery, we do not wish to create difficulties for the young operator, but merely to prove that an imper- fect knowledge of the situation and extent of these bursae has caused many errors. For I am well aware that this vessel has been tied several times when no doubt the bursa has been opened, and without endangering the patient’s life. Besides, many cases exist, where from accidents, the synovial membranes have been severely wounded, and the patients have, nevertheless, promptly recovered. Very lately, an opportunity occurred of witnessing a severe injury of this sort in my friend M. Donne, the laborious and intelligent author of some interesting papers on microscopical observations, who, while washing his feet, fell through the vase, and thus had both his peronei tendons divided low down ; he reco- vered their use perfectly. The extensor L. digitorum pedis and pero- neus tertius tendons pass in the same sheath, and are, therefore, provided with a common bursa, which is the broadest and shortest in the region; it is about two inches long, ex- tends one inch above the extremity of the malleole, and below, as far as the separation of the tendons one from the other. When distended, it is visibly bound down by the anterior annular ligament, to which it is so adherent that it cannot be easily detached ; as this ligament forms a sort of strangulation about the middle of the bursa, the surgeon should always examine above and below this point, when he suspects an accumulation of fluid. The three bursae just described are constantly found in this region ; others, or accidental bursae, are sometimes discovered in this part. A superficial or subcutaneous bursa mucosa, lying upon the extensor pollicis and digitorum pedis is here met with in cases where considerable pressure has existed above the part; whether these accidental bursa? are of the same nature as the others, I am not at present prepared to decide ; however, this bursa is about one inch in length. Another irregular or accidental bursa is sometimes situated upon the astragalus or scaphoid bone. produced probably also by pressure. In the posterior side of this region we find four more bursae mucosa?, which are situated more deeply than those in front. The tendon of the tibialis posticus muscle, which is the first we discover on the inner side of the ankle, is enveloped by a bursa mucosa which reaches four inches above the lower extremity of the malleole ; when distended, the finger may feel it distinctly through the integuments ; it rises above the edge of the tibia. The flexor longus digitorum pedis bursa envelopes a portion of the muscular fibres as well as the tendon, and lies partly behind the posterior tibial vessels ; for tins reason care must be also taken to avoid injuring it. The flexor longus pollicis pedis bursa covers about an inch of its fibres before its tendon passes the strong vagina; this bursa is ex- tremely thin, and lies immediately behind the posterior tibial vessels and nerves; great care must be taken not to injure it during opera- tions upon these parts. Proceeding outwards, we observe the bursa of the peronei tendons, which, passing in one sheath, have only one synovial membrane. This bursa is large, rises, when inflated, above the edge of the fibula, can easily be felt by the finger, and extends two inches and a half above the lower extremity of the malle- ole. In examining the foot of a man who had fallen from a scaffold, I perceived along the course of this bursa, a peculiar sort of emphy- sematous crepitus : by carefully studying this sensation, I concluded that it was produced by a fluid passing under the fingers; the dis- section discovered a fracture of the calcis, rupture of the bursa, which was filled with blood, and an incomplete fracture of the ex- ternal malleole. I feel quite persuaded that minute inspection of these bursae will often lead to the diagnosis of similar fractures, and assist in discovering other diseases. A patient was lately sent me, that I might examine his fore-arm, when a very singular crepitation was observed, which seemed to extend along the course of the long muscles of the thumb, and was probably caused by fluid in their bursa which lies above the radius. Fig. 100. Fig. 100 is a vertical sec- tion of the hones of the ankle, a, the os calcis ; b, the astragalus; c, the epiphysis of the filmla ; d, the epiphysis of the tibia ; e, the external la- teral ligament, descend- ing from the fibula to the. os calcis; just within it the line is prolonged to show the interosseous ligament connecting the fibula with the astraga- lus. The interosseous ligament is also seen connecting the astraga- lus and os calcis. ISe- tween d and A, the in- ternal lateral ligament is stretched from the tibia to the astragalus.