513 BRONCHOTOMY. mine, minorem eorum partem tenet, quin lmmo per tracheam integram et bronchia ad nnnimas usque ramificationes extenditur.” Mr. Porter strongly insists that it should very seldom be performed in croup. Dr. Copland says, there is not a chance of its success after general treatment has failed. And Dr. Mason Good says, it should never be attempted till all other means have proved inefficacious. The question, then,is—Is bronchotomy ever to be performed in croup, and if so, when ? In the first stages ot the disease, when active antiphlogistic measures are indicated and likely to prove useful, it is not to be thought of. The irritation it would excite must increase the disease, and it could do no good before the lymph was effused, In a more advanced period, when lymph has formed, it must be generally improper, for the stridor so masks the auscultatory phenomena that it is im- possible to distinguish with accuracy the extent ot the false membranes, the degree of pulmo- nary engagement, the coexistence of bron- chitis, or the commencement of effusion. Now supposing it complicated with bronchitis, or, as Mr. Porter asserts is frequently the case, the disease commences in the bronchial rami- fications, and extends upwards, the issue would be more than doubtful, for though the air be admitted its arterialization must be imperfect. On this point also we must not forget, that bronchitis, slight or severe, is certain to follow the operation, and that children, or those who have suffered from difficult respiration, are very unfavourable subjects for its occurrence. Thus we may be adding a fatal disease in a case which has not gone so far as to preclude all hopes of a favourable termination by the expulsion of the lymph. Again: Dr. Cheyne has urged that the cohesion of the lymph is often so slight, that it would be impossible to lay hold of it so as to remove it; and that in many other severe cases there is no continu- ous membrane, the secretion from the in- flamed surface existing in the form of shreds and detached portions. In the last stages, when congestion of the brain has taken place, convulsions or coma supervening, and the patient appears to be sinking, though in Mr. Chevalier’s cases and in some others it was successful, in the vast majority it would only bring surgery into dis- grace. It is not unreasonable, however, to suppose that there is a period in some cases in which the inflammation has ceased, or has been sub- dued by the treatment employed, and the effusion of lymph no longer continues. Per- haps the lymph has been too much considered as dangerous by the mechanical obstruction it produces, whereas its worst effects are often those of causing irritation to the muscles acting on the glottis, and exciting them to spasmodic action. If this be correct, it is plain that bronchotomy is indicated in such a case as has just been alluded to, provided the happy moment can be seized, before pulmonary effu- sion or cerebral congestion supervene, voi.. i. Bretonneau has recommended the opera- tion in cases of croup from the extension of diphtheritic inflammation of the fauces. He operated in three cases, one of which re- covered ; but we require further facts on this point before any general rule can be laiddown. The operation might be proper, if it ap- peared probable that the obstruction was owing, as in Mr. Chevalier’s cases, to the ac- cumulation of mucus, and if such proved to be the case, it would probably be followed by the happiest results. On this point we must not mistake the convulsive efforts a patient makes to free himself from the mucus, or from any obstruction in the air passages, for the convulsions arising from cerebral congestion. Now as to the last stage. Its performance has been generally and justly condemned by all the best authorities, but it becomes a ques- tion whether this rule should be strictly ad- hered to, if such a case occurred, when the friends of the patient were intelligent persons, and should desire the operation, after it had been pointed out to them how little proba- bility there was of a happy result. Under such circumstances, I conceive, neither the surgeon, nor his art, would fall in the esti- mation of the parties. Some cases might recover, as some have after all hope was ex- tinct, and very frequently one of our noblest objects would be attained,—alleviating suffer- ing, and smoothing the pillow of death. I cannot, however, conclude this section better than by the following table, showing the results which various celebrated French operators have obtained, according to their own declaration in a late discussion at the French Royal Academy of Medicine, after employing bronchotomy in croup. Amussat . . Operations. Cures. Death 6 0 6 Baudelocque. 15 0 15 Blandin. . . 5 0 5 Bretonneau 18 4 14 Gerdy . . . 6 4 2 Roux . . . , 4 0 4 Trousseau . . 80 20 60 Velpeau . . . 6 0 6 140 28 112 3. (Edema of the glottis, or the submucus cellular tissue of the larynx. This disease has many symptoms in common with the phlegmo- nous laryngitis. There are the same fits of difficult respiration, spasmodic cough, and threatened suffocation. The same difficulty of inspiration, freedom of expiration, pain in the region of the larynx, and alteration of the voice. Indeed, it is often totally impossible to ascertain the exact nature of the various in- flammatory diseases of the larynx. But if on passing the finger along the tongue to the upper extremity of the larynx, a soft tumour can be felt about the margin of the aperture of the glottis, the case is pretty clear. This, however, only occurs when the epiglottis and rirna are implicated to some extent. If so, the L L