31 EAR, AND HEARING, DISEASES OF. the handle of the malleus however can be dis- tinctly seen. Still some wax in left passage, so that only the lower part of the membrana tympani can be seen ; and this part appears to be in the same state as the membrane is on the right side. Noise in the left ear entirely gone, but still feels stuffed. Hearing distance of the right ear, fifteen feet seven inches ; of the left ear, fifteen feet four inches. Ordered the left ear to be syringed again, and a solution of the acetate of lead (gr. iij. aq. dist. ^i.), to be poured into the auditory passages two or three times a day. Friday, 10th.—Hearing distance of right ear, thirteen feet nine inches; of left ear, nine feet six inches. A feeling of stuffing in both ears proceed- ing from the nose as if she could not breathe. Applied the air-douche to the left side, and found that the air did not penetrate to the tympanum. Saturday, 11th.—Still some wax adhering to the upper wall of the left auditory passage, but the whole of the membrana tympani can be seen. Has had some noise in the left ear like the singing of a tea-kettle. Hearing distance of the right ear, ten feet and a half; of the left ear, fourteen feet nine inches. Applied the air-douche again to the left ear, but the air did not penetrate. Applied the air-douche also to the right ear. The air penetrated at first in a small whistling stream, and then with some gurgling, but yet not very freely. Stuffing on the right side a little re- lieved, but still exists on the left side. The right ear heard the watch after the application of the air-douche, at the distance of seventeen feet nine inches ; the left ear at eleven feet ten inches. Monday, 13th.—Still some noise in left ear like the ticking of a watch, but not constant. Applied the air-douche to the left ear. The air now penetrated a little, so that the sensa- tion of stuffing is somewhat less. Applied the air-douche to the right ear also, when the air entered more freely than on Saturday, and with a rushing and gurgling sound. Hearing distance of the right ear is now eighteen feet four inches ; that of the left ear is nineteen feet nine inches. Tuesday, 14th.—The right ear hears the watch from one corner of the room to the other (about twenty-five feet). No stuffing. Left ear.—Stuffing less, still some noise like the ticking of a watch occasionally'. Hears the watch from one corner of the room to the other. Applied the air-douche to the left ear only to-day. The air now enters very' freely with a rushing and howling sound. After the douche, no noise in the ear nor feeling of stuffing. The heaviness and confusion of the head which she had formerly are now gone. About five minutes after the application of the air-douche, heard the watch with the left ear pretty distinctly from one corner of the room to the other. Wednesday, 13th.—Has had no noise in the left ear since yesterday. Stuffing very much less. No stuffing in the right ear. Throat and tongue pretty well. Hears the watch distinctly with both ears from one corner of the room to the other. Friday, 17th.—Noise in the ears recurred this morning, together with the sensation of stuffing. Right ear, fourteen feet eight inches; left ear, sixteen feet. Applied the air-douche to both sides. There was some gurgling heard in the right tympanum. Some stinging pain felt, more on the right side than on the left, when the air is sent in with any degree of force. After the douche, heard the watch from one corner of the room to the other, but less distinctly with the right ear than with the left. Noise and stuffing gone. Saturday, 18th.—No complaint, and hears well. Dismissed cured. Remarks.—Though a simple, this is a very valuable and instructive case. The first thing to be noted is the coincident accumulations of wax in the external auditory passages and ob- struction of the Eustachian tubes, complete on the left side and incomplete on the right: circumstances indicating the previous exist- ence of erythematous inflammation of the ex- ternal auditory' passages, and a catarrhal affec- tion of the mucous membrane of the middle ear. Though the right and the left auditory pas- sages were equally stopped up with wax, the Eustachian tube of the right side was not com- pletely obstructed, hence, perhaps, the cause of the difference in the power of hearing pre- sented by the twro ears before the removal of the wrax. But the circumstance which merits particu- lar notice, and which, according to prevailing notions of the physiology of the ear was not to have been expected, is the great increase of the hearing distance after the removal of the wax, notwithstanding the existence of obstruction of the Eustachian tubes discovered by the application of the air-douche : obstruc- tion so complete on the left side as not to yield to the air-douche until the third sitting. The obstruction of the Eustachian tubes appeared to be owing to a gluing together of their walls by thickened mucus. The sounds produced by the entrance of the air indicated a pretty natural state of the cavity of the tympanum. Hence the rapid improvement in hearing, consequent on the removal of the wax, even while the Eustachian tubes re- mained obstructed, and the still farther and equally rapid improvement, according as the latter were rendered pervious. Case II.—Chronic inflammation of the lining membrane of the tympanic cavities, with accu- I