130 AMPUTATION. cases requiring amputation, in which the sur- geon has some choice as to the precise period of performing it, and is not strictly tied to time, he should follow the rules laid down for the performance of operations generally: these he ought the more strictly to adhere to, as among what may be termed the major ope- rations of surgery, there is not one ot greater consequence than amputation. He must not forget that a mild temperature and settled weather are decidedly favourable to success. He ought also to bear in mind that it is better to operate in the morning than at any other part of the day. The morning is the more necessary as the imme- diate preparations for the operation require some time; and the accidents which may supervene after it (which often require con- siderable time also) are much better counter- acted during the day than in the evening. Place at which Amputation is to be performed. There is scarcely any part of any limb at which the operation may not be performed; but it cannot be performed at each and every part with equal advantage. . It is usually practised in the continuity ot the limb, that is, by cutting through the bones; but sometimes it is performed at the joints. Whether the latter should ever be the place for amputating, except in cases where it can- not possibly be avoided, is a question, which, being somewhat new, we shall deem it our duty presently to raise and discuss. That this is almost a new question, will appear evident when it is considered that, up to this day, authors make the difference, as to place, the ground of a natural division of amputations into those which are performed in the con- tinuous and those which are performed in the contiguous parts of the bones of the limbs, a division upon which we must therefore offer a few words. We consider this arrangement inferior to our own, inasmuch as the different methods of operating are more or less, although not equally, applicable to the contiguity and the continuity of the limbs. The division we adopt is quite as simple, and admits of a more me- thodical classification, without requiring, as the other does, that we should go over the same limb, in describing the amputations applicable to it, more than once. In the arrangement we adopt, the different methods of amputating may be said to consti- tute classes,—the different parts of each limb, at which amputation, by these methods, may be performed, species,—and the different modifi- cations of these methods at any part, genera. For instance, in describing the amputations performed on the thoracic limb, we have only to apply the different methods and their modifications to its several parts, the arm, elbow, fore-arm, wrist, and fingers. Thus, everything is clear, and there can be no omis- sion. Whereas, by the other classification, there is some confusion, and the necessity of going over the ground twice is unavoidable ; because it is required to treat of the amputa- tions of the limbs by the different methods and their modifications, first, in the different regions of their continuity, and then to return and treat of them, in like manner, in the diffe- rent regions of their contiguity, or at their several joints. But we may ask,, ought amputation ever to be performed at the joints, when there is any other part of the limb at which it can be performed? We think not; and we believe this decision, which we rest upon surgical and physiological grounds, to be justified by expe- rience. The danger of cutting into a joint, of exposing an articular surface, has been uni- versally admitted since the time of Hippo- crates. Wounds of the joints are dangerous, chiefly on account of the severe sympathetic derangement they may occasion : there is a much greater variety of parts at the joints than in other regions of the limbs ; and the sympathy they excite seems to be in propor- tion to the number and importance of these ^ The synovial system, taken as a whole, has its different parts all over the body closely united by sympathy. The same may be said of the fibrous system, of which so great a portion enters into the composition of everyjoint. The sympathy between the synovial and the serous systems is so direct, that an injury of the one will often occasion disturbance in the other. Perhaps these considerations alone ought to be sufficient to deter the surgeon from ampu- tating at the joints. Fractures and other me- chanical injuries of the limbs are, to a great extent, dangerous in the ratio of their vicinity to joints, and the more so in proportion to their volume and importance. Wounds which would otherwise be of no great consequence are serious and dangerous, when they affect or penetrate into an articulation. It does, there- fore, seem inconsistent for surgeons to operate upon them, when not absolutely obliged to do so. Surgically considered, these operations at the joints are bad. This is shown by the changes which occur in the stump after the operation, and which we shall have to notice hereafter. Bones, being larger at their articular surfaces than at any other part, require there a proportionately larger extent of soft parts to cover them; whereas, with one or two ex- ceptions, the soft parts surrounding joints are not only less abundant, but they are also the least fit for the purpose. Synovial mem- brane, tendons and their sheaths, fasciae and ligaments abound at the joints ; and these are ill suited to form a stump, or to cicatrize speedily. The inconvenience of their inflam- mation is excessive : it may give rise to the formation of pus along the sheaths of the tendons, or in the synovial surface ot the joint, which, if left, will often suppurate in dangerous profusion rather than unite to the enveloping parts. The surgeon who has witnessed these local disorders, with tendons, ligaments and aponeuroses isolated, and sometimes dangling about the stump, must ever feel reluctant to amputate at the joints.