FRACTURE. 3(30 two respectively sanctioned by so many cre- ditable names. There is a difference, too, between the writer and the practitioner which is rarely well adjusted ; for both the weak- nesses of the learner and the teacher are in- cessantly tempting the latter to be more pre- cise and positive, and unmindful of exceptions, than truth demands. Mr. Pott recommended the whole frac- tured limb to be rested on its outside, on the trochanter, and the body of the patient to be inclined to the same side ; the hip-joint to be somewhat flexed ; the knee to be placed be- twixt flexion and extension ; and the leg and foot on rather a higher level than the thigh. Many-tailed bandages were applied to the thigh and leg. Two short, broad, and hol- lowed splints, extending from above the tro- chanter, and from the groin to just below the knee, were the only solid support used by him, and the limb below the knee was sup- ported upon pillows. This plan deserves to be remembered, as available under particular cir- cumstances. It is sometimes adopted with four thigh-splints; it admits of various degrees of flexion, and a splint may be adapted along the whole of the outside of the limb, as well as other applications if requisite. In treating fractured thighs according to these directions, the mischiefs of a common yielding bed or slack sacking are particularly to be guarded against; for the middle of the bed, sinking from its greater weakness in the long diameter, will of course lower the body and the head of the broken femur with it; whilst the lower extremity of the femur with the leg and foot, is left considerably above, apparently from its too free mobility, or want of the support of a continuous splint beneath it. The tendency also of the weight of the body rather to one side of the bed than the other; the unresisted gravity of the leg, and the power of many muscles over the limb in this position, notwithstanding that the chief flexor muscles are relaxed, seem calculated to displace the upper part of the femur, and pro- duce permanent distortion of the foot out- ward. When, however, this method of placing the limb becomes desirable, these difficulties, being anticipated, may be in great part ob- viated by care. Among the objections urged against the principle of Pott, is the disadvantage attend- ing the application of extension and counter- extension in the bent position, as the force must be applied near to the broken bone itself, instead of to the leg or foot at a dis- tance from it. Other objections are, that the fractured and sound limbs cannot be so accu- rately compared; that the continued pressure upon the trochanter becomes painful, and may lead to sloughing ; that the patient soon turns round on his back, dragging the upper fragment along with his body ; and also that every time he has a motion in this position, the derange- ment of the limb is likely to be considerable. One of the chief advantages of the straight position for the treatment of fractures of the thigh, is justly said to consist in the facility with which it admits of active extension. With respect to the efforts that may be em- ployed with this view, the reader should be mindful of the limitations already described in the general account of fractures. With regard to the practicability of over- coming muscular contraction by extension, it is probably very near the truth, that the more violence is employed the less advantage is gained, and the more mischief accrues. All needful extension short of distress may be available and desirable ; more than this is mostly impracticable, and even the least de- grees beyond it are, I think, more boasted of, as to their effects, than real or efficient. The natural power of those muscles which tend towards displacement, generally baffles the resistance which artificial combinations of apparatus are at first able to oppose to them ; but the wearying operation of a gentle continued extension, and of muscular com- pression by means of the circular bandage, may yet prove more or less completely effi- cient. That the power of the muscles may be so diminished, might appear from ihe known effect of continued extension in the reduction of certain cases of dislocation. In fracture, however, the contraction to be overcome is expected to yield permanently ; but surgeons are very well aware that in prac- tice, cases every now and then occur, in which the muscles are perfectly invincible ; and they find themselves compelled to remain content with a very indifferent coaptation of fragments, or even without any reduction of the parts whatever. Some degree of extension is beneficial, if it only produce reduction to the point at which muscular contraction is firm; and beyond this it is to be feared that the more extension is needed, the more it may prove unavailing. No one need object to employ all the force he can without distressing the patient; but when the mechanical surgeon presents his patient to illustrate the happy effects of ex- tension, a few days after a fracture has been put up, and the patient (a muscular young man perhaps), declares he is quite free from painful pressure, it remains to be inquired, whether the muscles have given way, or the apparatus. It is to be hoped the machine is sometimes more tender than its contriver. The effect of regular muscular compression by a bandage, is said to be exemplified in the usual treatment of fractured patella and ole- cranon ; but we must not forget that posture does still more in both of these cases. It might even be said, that in these cases the muscles still make success difficult. Next to its affording efficient means of reduction, we said that the straight position of the leg presents the simplest and readiest, though not the only means of keeping up ex- tensiou, and a decided stability of the whole limb. Desault did not find permanent extension