46 EAR, AND HEARING, DISEASES OF. Treatment. — In the purely inflammatory stage, blood must be abstracted, but with caution, as the patients are in general not of good constitution. In adults, venesection may be necessary, followed by the application of leeches in considerable number around the affected ear and to the temple. In children leeches alone are sufficient. The bowels be- ing freely opened, the constitution is to be brought quickly under the influence of mer- cury. When it is evident that suppuration must take place, fomentations and poultices are to be employed, and sweet almond oil poured lukewarm into the auditory passage ; and when it can be ascertained by examina- tion that the membrana tympani is forced out- wards by the tympanic abscess, a puncture is to be made through it in order to give vent to the matter. The greater number of cases of otitis in- terna which come under the notice of the sur- geon, are in the chronic state. The mem- brana tympani is found perforated or de- stroyed, and there is a puriform discharge from the ear ; the ossicles perhaps gone, the tympanic wall carious, and the cavity filled with fungous excrescences. Existing irrita- tion is to be soothed by the application of leeches and the employment of warm fomen- tations and poultices. These means are particularly necessary when suppression of a discharge from the ear of long standing has taken place in consequence of a renewal of inflammation. In cases where matter presents itself at the mastoid process, nowr softened by caries, it is to be laid open. When excitement no longer exists, the cavity of the tympanum is to be kept clean by cautiously syringing with lukewarm water, and that in moderate quan- tity, and then pouring in a weak solution of the acetate of lead. More stimulating injec- tions are to be avoided, as likely to cause irritation. Tartar emetic ointment is at the same time rubbed in below and behind the mastoid process until a copious eruption be excited; and this is to be occasionally re- newed. The state of the constitution must be looked to, and the strength kept up. If, under the above treatment, fungous ex- crescences do not subside, they are to be touched with the nitrate of silver. But if caries exist, nothing, of course, but exfoli- ation of the affected bone can be of any use, and it may be considered fortunate if the ca- ries of the petrous bone be so superficial as to be gradually exfoliated. Krukenberg has found the internal use of assafoetida combined with phosphoric acid, useful in caries of the tympanum. The following cases are chosen to illustrate otitis interna produced by severe injury. Professor Carlo Spcranza1 relates the fol- lowing case: 1 Caso ili gravissima Otitide prodotto da strumento pungente penctrato fino ncl labirinto, e brevemente terminata in mortale encefalitide, con reflessioni sul Case X. A companion introduced a pointed instrument into the auditory passage of a young man in sport. The tickling pro- duced inducing him to turn round suddenly, the instrument was forced deep into the ear. Uttering a scream, he fell dow'n senseless, but recovered somewhat after being bled. Violent inflammation of the ear and brain, however, came on, which terminated in death the fourth day after the accident. During his illness the patient was pale and lethargic, and often moved his hand towards his head. He was delirious, and repeatedly seized with convulsions of the whole body, but especially of the left side of the face (the side on which the injury was inflicted). Respiration was stertorous, and the action of the heart very slow. There was no lesion of, nor discharge from the auditory passage. Autopsy.— The membrana tympani and chorda tympani were found torn, and the cavity of the tympanum filled with matter. The connexions of the ossicles were broken up. The stapes was driven through the fe- nestra ovalis into the vestibule, the soft parts contained in which were all confounded toge- ther, and among them the base, and a small portion of one of the branches of the stapes. The dura mater was a little thicker than natural, and injected, especially over the pe- trous bone where there was extravasation of blood. The arachnoid was inflamed and a sero-purulent effusion existed between it and the pia mater. The vessels of the latter w'ere very much distended with blood. The brain, especially the cortical part, was very vascular and firmer than natural. The part over the temporal bone presented effused blood in its substance. There was no effusion into the ventricles. Case XI. A woman, aged forty, had nitric acid poured into her right ear on the Cth June, 1833, while in a state of intoxication. She was roused by a severe burning pain in the ear, which continued, though in a milder de- gree for two or three days, but had entirely subsided in about a week afterwards. A thick, stringy, membranous slough was de- tached from the auditory foramen, and this was followed next day by haemorrhage to the amount perhaps of ^xx. After this, the debi- lity under which she had laboured, since the injury, increased to an extreme degree, and at the same time the use of the right arm was lost. There were, the 8th day after the injury, when Dr. Morrison first sawr the patient, se- veral ulcerated spots over the surface of the ear, particularly in the concha, and the lobe seemed to have altogether lost its vitality. Part of the face and neck wras also in a state of ulceration. There was a trifling discharge from the meatus externus, and the sense of hearing was abolished. There was no head- ach, nor any apparent febrile symptoms. medesimo; referito alia Sooieta Medica di Livorno. In “ Raccolta di operc mediche Italiane,” tomo ix. p. 409.