759 CEPHALHEMATOMA. rect by the previous description, or at the best insignificant and hypothetical. Busch having observed a large blood-tumour on the occiput of a child delivered with the forceps, which communicated with the sinuses, deduced a general theory of the disease from this ex- ample of a totally different affection *. Dzondi believes the proximate cause of the affection to consist in imperfect development of a part of the parietal bone, the diploe of which is at the time of birth uncovered by an external table. The delicate vessels of the diploe are burst, he supposes, by the forcible rush of blood to the head, consequent on the action of the uterus, or of pressure against the sides of the pelvis. The imperfect develop- ment of the bone in the affected part he attri- butes to the continuous pressure of the pro- montory of the sacrum on the head, and espe- cially on either parietal bone. M. Paul Dubois considers that from the extreme facility with which blood may be ex- pressed from the infant cranium after the separation of its investing membranes, such separation, if it occur during life, must lead to the formation of cephalhsematoma, and hence that the causes of the former are the true problem. These, he maintains, may be of various kinds, either, for example, unnaturally lax union of the pericranium and bone, violence down to the head, or disease of the osseous tissue itself. In examining the skulls of new-born infants, M. Valleix was struck with the almost invari- able appearance of an ecchymosis between the bones and pericranium of the upper part of the head, commonly most extensive on the right parietal: the cellular tissue in which the infiltration of blood existed, was usually fragile, thickened, and granular, in some rare cases ruptured, and in consequence of this, blood effused in a thin layer. Judging from its oval form, as well as from its precise situa- tion on the skull, that it could not be pro- duced by pressure against a resisting surface, such as the walls of the pelvis, this observer infers that it arises from circular constriction in the centre of the passages, and that the agent of this constriction must be the neck of the uterus. The usual greater size of the ecchymosis on the right parietal, he attempts to explain by the fact that when the head is at the inlet, the chin is turned towards either shoulder, and a certain degree of obliquity thus given to the position of the head, which causes one of its sides to present before the other ; now it is well known that the right parietal is that which most usually passes the cervix first. Such being the mode of origin of the ecchymosis, that of cephalhematoma must, according to this author, be admitted to be the same, only occurring in a more intense form ; because the gradual passage is trace- able, in different heads, from simple red tint 1 A case closely similar to that of Busch has been related by Flint, New England Journal of Medicine, vol. ix. p. 112. lb-20. of the part to evident infiltration of blood, destruction of tissue with effusion, and finally tuberiform accumulation of the same fluid, or true cephalhaematoma. This theory cannot be said to be shaken by the occurrence of the tumour in cases of “ easy labour,” but it is difficult to understand how the cervix can have exercised material pressure on the skull of the second born of twins, extracted by the feet, or before the rupture of the membranes; and yet, as we have seen, the tumour has been discovered under both these circum- stances by competent observers. Again, ac- cording to this theory, the pre-disposing and exciting causes of the effusion are present in every infant at birth, yet, as we shall show from statistical documents, scarcely more than one in a hundred infants are subjects of the affection : M. Valleix urges, in reply, that its incipient stage is incomparably more fre- quent, and that the most favourable cases for the production of the tumour are those in which a large portion of the parietal presents at the cervix, an occurrence which is suffi- ciently rare. But on the other hand, as the reader will perceive, were M. Valleix’s doc- trine correct, the tumour should always exist on the parietal bone first extruded through the cervix uteri; now the following facts from Dr. Burchard’s practice, which are ren- dered particularly valuable from their not having been stated in reference to any theory, show- that this is far from being the case. In twenty of his cases of vertex presentation, the cephalhaematoma existed on the parietal next the symphysis pubis ; in fifteen, on the con- trary, the swelling was seated not on the pre- senting parietal, but on that next the promon- tory of the sacrum. On the whole it appears that the effusion mediately depends on imperfect development of the external table of the bones, and lax adhesion of the pericranium ; immediately upon any causes affecting a separation between the latter and the bony surface of these, cir- cular constriction of the cervix uteri is pro- bably the most frequent, but certainly not the sole, as indeed M. Valleix himself allows may be the fact. Respecting the state of the bone itself and the influence of this on the effusion, it will be observed that there is the evidence of these authors in favour of the absence of the external table ; that of Michaelis, who conceives it due to local caries ; of Dzondi, who ascribes it to local abnormal suspension of development from pressure ; of Valleix, who maintains such imperfection the natural condition at this period of existence. That it is wanting in, at least, some cases of cephalhe- matoma is more than probable, but this may be accounted for in various ways ; it is not impossible that in cases pre-existing to birth the collection of blood may have really formed in diploe and destroyed the ill-formed outer table by pressure ; were this the fact, sub- pericranial would be only an advanced stage of interstitial cephalhaematoma. Dr. Burchard examined certain particulars