FRACTURE. 298 cases under consideration the treatment need not be continued long. M. Dupuytren, how- ever, recommends that, especially in cases in which the deformity had been considerable, the treatment should be continued at least as long as in a case of recent fracture. If more than sixty or seventy days from the time of the fracture have elapsed before the correction of the deformity is undertaken, in the great majority of cases, the formation of the definitive callus will be advanced, and we need not hope to remedy the deformity without the forcible rupturing of the callus ; and in some few cases, in which the deformity is very great, and the usefulness of the mem- ber is greatly impaired, such a proceeding may be justified. It cannot be materially dangerous or mis- chievous to employ as much force with the hands, or simple mechanical means, as may sever the fragments anew, provided all con- siderable contusion and needless laceration be obviated, as well as the danger of produc- ing fracture elsewhere than at the place re- quired ; and in some, at least, of the cases of seriously deformed union, it W'ould seem but an inconsiderable danger to cut down to the new- bone, and with the knife, bone scissors, chisel, or saw, or with several of these, to effect a simple separation of the misarranged fragments, without any more than superficial injury to the soft parts around. With regard to the method of producing the fracture of solid callus, it must be diffi- cult, if not impossible, to give positive general rules. The kind of force and direction to be given to it will vary according to the circum- stances of individual cases. Extension is likely to be but rarely, if ever, serviceable, until disunion has been accomplished, or at least commenced. In cases of angular deformity, the part to be pressed on, with the greatest probability of easy success, will be sometimes the salient, and sometimes the receding or hollow part of the reunion. To consider the particular part of the bone broken, with a well established knowledge of the deformities to which each part, when broken, is liable (not forgetting the nature of the primary injury), may greatly assist the judgment in determining the direction which should be given to the efforts for renewing fracture. When the reunion is extensive, as when with much overlapping the fragments are broadly apposed and massively united, the utility of making trial of simple violence is very doubtful; yet we should remember that a certain proportion of cases occur which are apparently like these, while, in fact, they arc but scantily or partially united by bone, and that a careful attempt by force in one direc- tion may fail, when in another direction it might succeed. We have shown that the periosteum is at one time a cause of abundant ossification, and at another of deficient, or unequal repara- tion. The recollections of these facts may justify the tentative adoption of violence be- fore having recousre to other measures. Pro- bably, too, it will often be w'ell to make vio- lence secondary to the partial division of the callus, as by the saw. The simple repetition of the ill united fracture is the first thing to be desired. Surgeons in ancient times recommended, and sometimes adopted a rude method of putting this in practice, which is now used very rarely except by bone-setters. M. ASs- terlen has invented a machine by which the rupture of the callus may be effected with much less violence, and therefore with much less risk to the patient. It consists of a strong wooden bar, from the extremities of which two metal stems pass down, each of which terminates in a pad concave below, and to which is attached, by straps, another pad con- cave on its upper surface. These pads, and along with them the whole instrument, are firmly fastened on the limb by tightly buck- ling the straps, in such manner that the scat of the fracture occupies the middle point be- tween the two metal stems. From the part of the bar midway between the two stems, another metal stem, terminated by a pad, passes down, which, when the instrument is applied as directed, will correspond exactly to the callus. With the middle stem is con- nected a winch, by which, in the operation, the pad is brought suddenly and forcibly to bear upon the callus, so as to rupture it. M. iEsterlen adduces many cases in proof of the safety with which the fracture may be reproduced by means of his invention ; which certainly admits of the application of a greater force, and one that can be much more nicely regulated, than the rude methods of the old surgeons ; who broke the callus by mere force of hand across the knee, or in some similar way. It is obvious that this method is adapted to those cases chiefly in which the deformity is angular, or rather to cases in which we may, in some degree, anticipate the line which the secondary fracture will assume, and in which the rupture of the callus will enable us to restore the proper form of the limb with little extension. If the principal defor- mity arise from shortening of the limb, the fragments being united side by side, the new fracture will either merely separate the fragments, by passing down the callus alone, divide the shaft singly adjacent to the re- union, or it will rupture, at the same time, each fragment and the intervening callus by a transverse fracture. In the former case, supposing the possibility of overcoming the resistance of the muscles long habituated to their contracted condition, and that we suc- ceed in placing the extremities of the frag- ments in apposition, wre may fear the forma- mation of a false joint; because, as is shown in the sections of the femora, in figs. 28C, 287, the extremity of each fragment is covered by a layer of compact tissue, and completely cicatrized. With due care to secure close contact of the ends, however, we need have