1G7 ERYSIPELAS. 3 Op. cit. Dr. Williams, who lias so successfully inves- writes Mr. Copland Hutchisson, “ against the practice of making the incisions of such length as recommended by Mr. Lawrence, both as unnecessary and not so likely to stop the pro- gress of the disease where it is spread over a wide surface, as several small incisions made upon different parts where the disease is most active “ In elderly persons,” says Dr. Mac Dowel, “ or in those of a weak irritable habit, we must be guarded as to the extent of inci- sion ; it should be limited as much as possi- ble. I have seen cases where ulceration of a spreading character had attacked the edges of the wound, and rapidly produced a large and highly irritable ulcer2.” The incisions should penetrate into the la- mellated cellular tissue and should be lineal on the skin, and if on the extremities, in the direc- tion of the long axis of the limb ; but if the diffusion of pus has become subaponeurotic the incision of this expansion should be cru- cial. In making these incisions care should be taken to avoid those parts, such as large vessels and nerves, the lesion of which would be attended with grievous consequences. Haemorrhage might plunge the patient into a state of irretrievable collapse, and when considerable it should be promptly stopped ; if venous, by the raised position of the limb, astringent topics and compression ; and if arte- rial, by torsion or ligature. After the incisions are made the entire sur- face should be covered over with warm emol- lient fomentations to promote the disgorging of the parts ; or with refrigerant sedative topics to allay irritation and repress haemorrhage, as may be deemed advisable. Excess of inflam- mation may again require the application of leeches and soothing tepid poultices, but in general blood-letting will now but aggravate the condition of the patient. At each dress- ing the pus should be carefully pressed out, and wherever it may accumulate or tend to sojourn, new incisions should give issue to it, and subsequently gentle graduated compres- sion may be made to prevent this recurrence and favour the agglutination of the detached cuticle. In the third grade, the indication is to limit sphacelation, quicken the elimination of sloughs and promote the process of reparation. This indication is accomplished by the various means already exposed in the treatment of adynamic erysipelas, modified with minute regard to the circumstances of the case, at one time soothing, the next moment stimu- lating ; now applying emollient cataplasms, then detergent unguents ; with one hand re- pressing exuberant granulation, with the other quickening the elimination of gangrenous pro- ducts ; one day allaying the general inordinate action, the next invigorating the sinking vitality. Dr. Morand has published some observa- tions proving the good effect of tonic spirituous injections, made under the detached skin and 1 Op. cit. 2 Op. cit. into the fistulous passages, in arresting the progress of the gangrene, expediting the eli- mination of sloughs and allaying the pain *. The injections consisted of warm wine, or aromatic wine alone or mixed with equal parts of brandy : the results obtained by their use was such as to encourage the trial of them, and they may in some instances become an advantageous substitute for chloride injec- tions. Graduated compression should never be omitted in this period of the disease, in order to promote the agglutination of the detached skin, and the adhesive plaster slips particularly lauded by Professor Roux2 will find here their application. Forcible tractions should be avoided in de- taching the sloughs, and the cellular shreds that sometimes unite portions of skin to the subjacent parts should be carefully respected : formed of vessels and nerves, the vehicles of life and nourishment to the skin, their rupture would entail its mortification, and would also be attended with pain and some effusion of blood. In supporting the strength of the patient great care should be taken not to overload the stomach : the least excess frequently brings on diarrhea difficult to control, and sometimes precipitating the patient’s ruin. Care should be also taken to avoid exposure to cold humid air. In the numerous autopsies made by Dupuytren of persons that died with phlegm- onous erysipelas, he found that the phlegmon itself was less the cause of death than some internal inflammation contracted by impru- dence of this sort. If the extremities be the seat of the affec- tion, their immobility should be strictly en- forced during the whole course of the dis- ease ; their motion mi^ht determine a return of the erysipelas, and it need not be shown with how much greater danger to the patient. “ Even when the cicatrix is completely formed,” says Dupuytren, “ the motion ought still to be very moderate. Large and extensive cica- trices are very liable to tear, and their rupture is determined rather singularly; a small phlycten appears, soon bursts and leaves un- derneath a greyish surface resembling in colour a syphilitic ulceration. This ulcera- tion extends so rapidly that in twenty-four hours, more or less, the whole cicatrix is de- stroyed. It is true that it is renewed with much less difficulty, and this accident is not always to the patient’s disadvantage ; for the primitive cicatrix is generally weak and easily torn, and these qualities diminish each time that the cicatrix is reproduced, and it some- times does not acquire sufficient strength till it has been torn and reproduced several times. It is then only that the patient may be con- sidered out of danger and that a relapse is no more to be apprehended3.” 1 Journ. dcs Connais. Med.-Chirurg, 3c annec, Juin, 1836. a Lnncettc Franchise, tome n. no. 8o.