CORNS. 849 of the sclerotica, had acquired the lobulated appearance, as if by degeneration of the in- vesting conjunctiva. The patient quickly recovered from the operation, and the remain- ing part of the eyeball collapsed. Paracentesis of the Cornea. The various objects for which this operation is had recourse to, are detailed in their proper places. Here the operation itself only falls to be described. It is simply the first step in making the section of the cornea for the ex- traction of a cataract. A cataract-knife or a lancet-shaped knife is the instrument best adapted for the purpose. If the operation is undertaken when the eye is much intolerant of light, there is great difficulty in exposing the cornea sufficiently for the purpose, as on the eyelids being opened, the eyeball is involun- tarily rolled upwards. One eyelid requires to be secured by an assistant, while the surgeon takes charge of the other. The knife is entered at about one-tenth of an inch from the sclero- tica, and in doing so, the principal precaution to be observed is not to push the point on in the substance of the cornea, under the impression that it has penetrated into the anterior chamber. The thickness of the cornea and the direction of its surfaces, are such as to require that the point of the instrument be at first directed to- wards the centre of the pupil. The point of the instrument having fairly pierced the cor- nea, its handle is to be inclined towards the temple before pushing the blade farther into the anterior chamber. The extent to which this is done, however, should never exceed the margin of the pupil, so that were th.e aqueous humour suddenly evacuated, the iris might be between the point of the instrument and the lens. Hence the propriety of using an instru- ment of the shape mentioned, which is calcu- lated to make a sufficiently large puncture without penetrating far into the anterior cham- ber. The puncture having been sufficiently made, the instrument is to be withdrawn a little and slightly turned on its axis, so as to make the wound gape, and thus allow the aqueous humour readily to flow out. In pro- portion as this takes place, and the iris ap- proaches the cornea, the knife is gradually withdrawn. Description of the Plate. Fig. 1. Conical cornea. Fig. 2. Spherical enlargement of the cornea, in conse- quence of comeilis. Fig. 3. Central opacity of the cornea concealing the pupil. Fig. 4. The same eye, with the pupil dilated by bella- donna. Fig. 5. Large partial staphyloma. Fig. 0. Total spherical staphyloma. Fig. 7. Conical staphyloma. Fig. 8. Extension of membrane, like sclerotic conjunc- tiva, over a part of the cornea, in a case of cctropium from caries of the orbit. Fig. !). Silver spatula, for the removal of foreign bodies adhering to the cornea. Fig. 10. Staphyloma hook. Fig. 11. Staphyloma knife. VOL. I. Bibliography.—J. Wardrop, Essays on the Mor- bid Anatomy of the Human Eye, vol. i. 1808. O. Hennemau, Do Cornea; Morbis Dissert. Getting. 1810. Pummel, Dis. Inaug. med. de Corneitide. Getting. 1815. Aloys Clemens, Dissertatiosistens Tunica: Cor- neas et Humovis Aquei monogrnphiam pbysiologieo- pathologicam. Gotting. 1816. Chelius, Uebcr die durchsichtige Hornliaut des Auges, ihre Function und ihre krankhaften Verandcrungen. Karlsruhe, 1818. Hoffbauer, De Cornea ejusque Morbis. Berolini, 1820. A. J. Schaeffer, De Morbis Cornea;. Hake, 1822. Zarda, De Keratitide, praesertim Scrofulosa. Ticini Regii, 1824. J. Guthrie, Remarks on Strumous Corneitis and Iritis, in Edinburgh Medical and Surgical Journal, vol. xxix. Edinburgh, 1828. C. F. Riecke, De Tunica Comes;, &c. Berolini, 1829. J.Th.Fabini, De Pnrripuis Cornese Morbis Prolus. Acad. Bud®, 1830. Froriep, De Corneitide scrofulosa. Jen*, 1830. Stratiss, De Keratitide scrofulosa. Pragse, 1830. ,/. A. Wydra, De Keratoitide rheumatica. Pragae, 1831. Fredericas Ferdinandus Mourier, Dissertatio de In- flammatione Cornea: transparentis scrofulosa. Hannise, 1832. W. Nimmo, On Corneitis : in the Glasgow Me- dical Journal. Glasg. 1833. G. Duscnsy, Die Krank- heiten der durchsichtigen Hornliaut, systematischer Ordnung. Prag. 1833. Mirault, De la Corneite, in Ar- chives Generates de Medecine, tom. iii. Jtomer, Be- merkungen liber die Arteriellen Gefasse der Bindchant des Augapfels, in von Ammon’s Zeitschrift. Bd. v. p. 25. Schindler, Henrich Bruno, Die Entziindungsfor- men der Hornliaut des menschlichen Auges, in Am- mon’s Monatsschrift. Bd. i. p. 267. 413. 512. Leip- zig, 1838. See further, article Eye. (T. Wharton Jones.'j CORNS, clavus, spina pedis, gemursa, Lat. cor, Fr. Hiihnerauge, Ger.—A small, slightly elevated, hard tumour, produced by the long- continued, though remittent, pressure of tight shoes on the prominent parts of the feet or toes. Corns are developed in the cuticle, and are composed of layers of horny, demi- transparent tissue, in appearance inorganic. The hardened substance is hygrometrical, and is often the seat of pain or aching on the oc- currence of change of weather, particularly in persons whose skin is delicate ; it adheres but slightly to the surrounding epiderm, from which it may be detached by proceeding cau- tiously, either in the dry or wet state, although it seems firmly set by a root, which sometimes penetrates to the tendons and fibrous struc- tures of the bones themselves. This root is organized, and contains blood-vessels. The pressure of the indurated epiderm is trans- mitted to the true skin beneath, which is thus bruised ; and its blood-vessels, being propor- tionally developed, form a fine vascular net- work. Sir B. Brodie, who has carefully investigated this point of pathology, thinks that, to be completely formed, a corn must have a minute subcutaneous synovial bursa, analogous to those met with ou bony or ten- dinous projections. This serous cyst, by at- trition, is readily converted into a sanguineous ampulla. According to situation, extent of induration, and degree of inflammation of the parts upon which a corn presses, will be the degree of suffering arising from it. In warm weather, the tenderness is greatest, and the progress of deposition of hardened substance most rapid. In extreme cases, exercise by walking is at- 3 I