94 AMAUROSIS. Appearances.—The pupil is usually some- what dilated and the look rather vacant, and the patient is pallid and cold. I have myself experienced this form of amaurosis several times ; I had two or three attacks of it before the age of puberty—they became more frequent about the adult period, and have latterly been of rare occurrence. With me the amaurosis has always preceded the headach, and nausea, &c. and has been evidently caused by gastric irritation ; but it has often come on at a time when the secretions were regular, and when the form had been of simple and plain kind. I have been consulted by several fellow- sufferers of both sexes, and in some the cere- bral pain has preceded the disturbance of vision, whilst in others it has occurred subse- quently ; and in a few the irritability of the stomach has been excessive and attended with violent vomiting. I have remarked in my own case, and have found by inquiry in others, that the portions of nerve affected are not the same in each attack, but that the obscurity takes place in different positions and varies in its extent at different times. I have known a similar form of amaurosis produced by the irregular cerebral circulation which sometimes follows concussion of the brain ; the affection has then been more con- tinued, and of more gradual development, attended by giddiness, headach, noise in the ears, irritable stomach, &c., symptoms which cannot fail to indicate the nature of the disease, when viewed in connexion with the history of the case. Treatment.—The cases depending upon gastric disturbance are best remedied by an emetic, followed by an active purge, or by a dose of mercurial and opium, and a draught of senna and some alkaline purgative salt a few hours after ; I have generally adopted the latter plan, and have seldom found it neces- sary to repeat the dose ; but on two or three occasions when I have neglected to attend to the attack at first, its recurrence three or four days in succession has at length compelled me to do so; and I have been obliged then usually to take two or three doses. Attention to diet forms a necessary part of the treat- ment ; the patient should be careful as regards both quality and quantity of food for some time. This affection, when caused by concussion, disappears as the cerebral circulation recovers its balance under the ordinary treatment. ORGANIC AMAUROSIS FROM DISEASE OF THE BRAIN OR ITS MEMBRANES. I have seen a few examples of incomplete or partial amaurosis resembling that described as functional with visus dimidiatus, &c., but of continued character, and unattended by gastric irritation or disturbance ; I place it under the head of organic disease, as I consider it to re- sult not merely from an altered circulation, but to be caused by a morbid deposit. I have seen only three cases of this kind, and in each the obscurity or loss of vision was partial, and the pupils rather dilated, with sluggish irides, but no perceptible change in humour or tunic : the disease was of slow progress, and affected one eye more than the other. Each patient had been the subject of sy- philis, and evinced some constitutional taint liaving periostitis or affection of the throat, or cutaneous eruption. The indication for treatment was, therefore, tolerably plain : mercury was administered with care, (as I have previously described) and with the best effect in removing the im- perfection of vision, as well as the other evi- dences of syphilitic taint. Amaurosis resulting from organic cerebral mischief presents great variety in symptoms according to the seat, the nature, and extent of the change. 1. There may be partial or complete, im- perfect or perfect loss of vision without any alteration in function in any part of the struc- tures of the eye or its appendages except the retina, and without any visible organic change in the retina itself; even the iris may act freely and rapidly although there be little or no perception of light, though most fre- quently the pupil is dilated rather more than natural and the iris moves tardily. Such a form of amaurosis may have been preceded by headach or giddiness, and have been rapid in its progress, or have occurred very gradually without any marked sjmiptom of cerebral disturbance : the latter, I think, is most common. Under such circumstances one eye is often affected without the other, and if both are at- tacked, the amaurosis is more rapid in one than in the other, and frequently at the commence- ment of the disease the field of vision is not equally obscure. As the amaurosis increases, the symptoms indicating cerebral mischief sometimes be- come developed, and the patient usually ac- quires the vacant aspect which is so general in blind persons. When the amaurosis occurs rapidly the symptoms of cerebral disturbance are usually more marked than when it is of slow pro- gress. 2. With the disturbance of vision there may be an occasional or constant appearance of double objects when the two eyes are em- ployed, and this double vision will be"gene- rally more evident when the patient directs his attention to any object immediately before him ; whilst in a lateral direction objects may appear single. The double vision in such cases is a conse- quence of loss of muscular power, by which the parallel motion of the two eyes is in part destroyed, and a squint (strabismus) is pro- duced. When, therefore, the patient regards an object directly in front of him, the axis of the organs not being parallel, the object viewed is reflected upon portions of the retina