AMPUTATION. 151 until granulations arise, and all likelihood of a return of the haemorrhage ceases. The fa- tigue to which the assistants would be ex- posed in this service might be easily spared, as the materials with which it is made, either agaric or sponge, might be readily applied, with proper and regular force, by means of a compress and roller. Should all these means, however, be un- successful, the surgeon has still in reserve a recious resource in the ligature of the artery igher up in the limb. Having determined on the point at which the vessel is to be tied, he cuts down to it, and places the ligature upon it, as in the operation for aneurism. In this object too, he is not quite certain of not being disappointed ; for the vessel may be unsound even here, or, what is more likely, the collateral vessels may still continue to carry the blood to the perforated vessel, from which the haemorrhage took place. M. Roux, who recommends the practice, had a patient in the Charite on whom he amputated the leg. Secondary haemorrhage, from ulceration of the popliteal artery, compelled him to tie the femoral artery, but the haemorrhage was only momentarily interrupted : the blood con- veyed by the collaterals into the lower .part of the artery gushed out as fiercely as before, and the unfortunate patient, was obliged to submit to have his thigh amputated to save his life. There is another form of consecutive hae- morrhage, mentioned by Gouraud, resulting from the irritation of a necrosed bone. Com- pression will have no effect in arresting it: the dead bone must be removed, and the dead soft parts cut away, before the haemor- rhage, which is sometimes considerable, can be commanded. But whatever be the plan resorted to for checking the haemorrhage, if the soft parts of the stump are in a sloughy state, or otherwise ill-conditioned, their vitality must be modified before they will put on healthy action. For this purpose, Hey recommends the applica- tion of lint soaked in equal quantities of lemon juice and rectified spirit of wine. Inflammation of the Stump.— When the surfaces have been properly put in contact, the dressing performed without making un- due compression, and the stump is kept cool, it will seldom inflame; but on the contrary, the reaction will be slight, and adhesion will be found to have taken place extensively, often indeed at all points, except those occupied by the ligatures. It sometimes, however, hap- pens, possibly in most cases from want of proper attention at the time of applying the dressings, that blood effused from a neglected vessel, or pus thrown out from surfaces irrita- ted and indisposed to adhesion, stagnates at the bottom of the wound, thus forming a focus, from which inflammation of an unfa- vourable character extends over the whole stump. At first there is an increase of the local pain, the parts swell, and the feeling of constriction becomes more and more distress- ing ; the pulsation of the vessels becomes sensible, extending towards the trunk; the edges of the wound are gaping, and of a livid red. The pulse is full and frequent, the countenance flushed, the eyes brilliant, the tongue red. If the dressings be not speedily removed, the traumatic fever reaches its height, and delirium supervenes. No time should be lost in removing the adhesive straps and freeing the stump from all constriction. It may be fomented, or at once enveloped in an emollient poultice. If the inflammation is allowed to proceed unchecked the lymphatic vessels redden, and the gan- glions swell, the muscles retract, the wound bursts open, giving issue to a small quantity of dirty pus, and its surface exhibits a greyish hue ; this inflammation is of the erysipelatous kind, and prone to terminate in gangrene. Vigorous and vigilant treatment, local as well as constitutional, will now be necessary, not only to avert the danger with which life is threatened, but to prevent such extensive sloughing, as would deprive the bone of a proper covering, and expose the patient to the miseries of a conical stump. Sometimes the mere exposure of the parts, and the cessation of all constriction upon them, will give a sufficient check to the progress of the untoward symptoms. Sometimes, how- ever, this will not be enough. The local symptoms still persist, resembling closely those of hospital gangrene ; abscesses are formed here and there, and extend upwards ; and low fever, with stupor, or excessive prostra- tion supervenes. In this state, various reme- dies, both local and general, may be had re- course to ; some surgeons combat the inflam- mation by covering the surface of the stump, with leeches, emollient poultices, or emollient and narcotic fomentations ; some prefer free and deep incisions. Larrey, Dupuytren, and others speak highly of the actual cautery. The general indications are those of typhoid fever. Conical stump.—Louis was the first who dis- covered the real cause of this evil. The re- traction of muscles depends on the number and length of their fibres, and is proportionate to these two conditions. If two muscles be cut across, the fibres of one being three times longer than those of the other, the re- traction in two portions of the longer fibres will be three times as great, as in two portions of the shorter ; the third or internal portion of each retracts least, the fibres are shorter, being internal, and united to the neighbour- ing parts by more dense cellular tissue. The looseness or density of the cellular tissue, w'hich connects them with the surrounding parts, contributes also to the extent of the retraction. Since the mode of dividing the muscles recommended by Cheselden and J. L. Petit was adopted, the conicity of the stump, which was formerly a frequent consequence of amputation, is now but very rarely ob- served ; it however occurs sometimes from miscalculation as to the size of the flaps, but 10