CLUB-FOOT. 78y Fig. 174. Dr. Little's Boot. The letters a and b desig- nate a shoe fo rmed of iron, covered with leather, and well padded with horse-hair: c is a steel spring, which, by means of the padded strap e, is room upon the out- side of the leg ; i and f show a strap and bandage to go round the ankle, by which the heel is held securely in the shoe. The straps g g hold the heel firmly towards the inside of the shoe, whilst the short spring d draxcs the toes and front of the foot outwards, by means of the padded strap h passed round it. The screw l, which moves through a female screw k, (itself fixed as a rotatory rivet to the spring c,) acts upon the ankle-joint, and enables the surgeon to bend it as ra- pidly or as gradually as he may please. Fig. 175. Stromcyer's instrument. Fig. 176. Fig. 176. Delacroix's instrument. restored their healthy action and the flexibility of the ankle and tarsal joints. An exceedingly ingenious instrument, in which, also, the re- quisite power is obtained by the agency of a gun-spring, has been invented by Charles Eagland, son of the late instrument-maker at Leeds. He has given a full description of it in a paper published in the Lancet for 1838. Having myself employed Eagland’s machine, and witnessed its successful operation in cases of varus, I can testify that it is calculated to fulfil the necessary indications. The mechanical treatment, however, which was founded on the justest principles, and which appears to have been attended by great success, is that pursued by the late Timothy Fig. 177. Sheldrake, of which a full account was published by him in the Lancet, for 1827-28, vol. xiv. The following extract, from a paper in the number for July 26th, 1828, will show how nearly the views entertained by Sheldrake of the nature and cause of the deformity correspond with its true aetiology, as developed by the labours of Scarpa, Tourtual, and, Stromeyer : “ There were three deviations from the natural state of the parts in these limbs, which, though they were united to pro- duce the deformity, must be considered, as they were treated, separately : first, a deviation from a natural arrangement of the bones (Fig. 177); this was the