EAR, AND HEARING, DISEASES OF. ginous portion of the passage, and to the auricle. Just within the inner orifice there is a groove, incomplete at the upper part, for the reception of the circumference of the membrana tympani. The osseous portion of the auditory pas- sages is quite incapable of being dilated for the purposes of examination. The auditory passage is lined by a continu- ation of the skin of the auricle. This skin becomes more and more delicate as it ap- proaches the osseous part of the passage,— extremely so where it is continued on the outer surface of the membrana tympani, with which it is intimately incorporated. The skin of the auditory passage is covered with fine hairs, and, in old persons, close to the en- trance, hairs like those on the tragus,sometimes of considerable length, are enrooted. The skin of the auditory passage is connected to the subjacent perichondrium and periosteum, by rather dense and sparing cellular tissue. The epidermis readily separates by putrefac- tion, and may be drawn out like the finger of a glove, the blind end being that which invests the membrana tympani. From about a tenth of an inch within the auditory passage to about one-fifth of an inch from the membrana tym- pani, the lining integument presents numerous small apertures, the terminations of the ex- cretory ducts of the glands which secrete the ear-wax. These excretory orifices are most numerous about the middle of the passage, towards the termination of the cartilaginous and membranous portion. The ceruminous glands, glandulee ceruminosce, are small, round, or oval bodies of a brownish yellow colour, and very vascular. They are imbedded in the areolae presented by the dense cellular tissue which connects the skin of the auditory passage to the subjacent cartilage or bone. The ear-wax, cerumen, is, as is known, a thick orange-coloured, or yellowish brown viscid substance, of an extremely bitter taste, and somewhat aromatic odour. The auditory pas- sage, especially in the middle, is usually co- vered with a more or less thick layer of it. Membrana tympani.—The membrana tym- pani is situated at the bottom of the external auditory passage, between which and the ca- vity of the tympanum it is interposed like a partition. It is a thin semi-transparent, glis- tening, dry-looking membrane, of an oval shape, but truncated at the upper end. The handle of the malleus is in intimate connexion with the membrana tympani, and may be dis- tinctly seen, on examination in the living sub- jects, by means of a speculum auris, occupying a line in the membrane extending from its upper and anterior margin downwards and backwards to a point a little below and in front of its centre. The longest diameter of the membrana tympani, which is directed from above downwards, and from behind for- wards, is about eight-twentieths of an inch, and its shortest, that from behind forwards, some- what less than seven-twentieths of an inch. It is fixed by its circumference in the circular groove at the inner extremity of the osseous part of the external auditory passage ; and as this is cut obliquely from behind forwards, from above downwards, and from without in- wards, so is the direction of the membrane. Hence it forms, with the upper and posterior wall of the auditory passage, an obtuse angle, and with the lower and anterior wall, an acute angle. The membrana tympani is convex to- wards the tympanum, concave towards the au- ditory passage, a disposition depending on its connexion with the handle of the malleus, which has an inward direction inferiorly. As regards the composition of the membrana tympani, it consists of a proper membrane and two tegumentary investments, one of which, that on the external surface is the delicate continuation of the skin of the auditory pas- sage already mentioned ; and the other si- tuated on the inner surface, is a continuation of the delicate membrane which gives a lining generally to the cavity of the tympanum. The proper membrane is fibrous, and can be di- vided into two layers, the outer of which con- sists of radiating fibres which run from the circumference towards the centre, to be in- serted into the handle of the malleus along its whole extent; the inner layer is less dis- tinctly fibrous, though, when torn, it does in- dicate a fibrous disposition, but that in a di- rection opposite to the former. The circum- ference of the membrana tympani is formed of a thick, firm, ligamentous or cartilaginous ring, which is fixed in the groove of the bone. This ring appears to be composed of an aggregation of the circular fibres interwoven with the pe- ripheral extremities of the radiating ones, and with fibres from the periosteum of the audi- tory passage and of the cavity of the tympa- num. At the anterior and superior margin of the membrana tympani, where the two tegu- mentary layers are reflected from it, there is a mass of dense, reddish, vascular cellular tissue, surrounding the neck of the malleus, and continuous with a similar tissue found under the lining integument of the upper wall of the osseous auditory passage. The extre- mity of the handle of the malleus, which is curved forwards and outwards, is compressed from within outwards, and one of the flat sur- faces occupies a point of the membrana tym- pani below its centre and nearer its anterior edge. It is at this point that the bottom of the concavity is, which the membrana tympani presents externally. At its upper part the membrana tympani is pushed outwards by the short process of the malleus, which projects towards the auditory passage. Fig. 190. a b Fig. 190. The adult membrana tympani of the right side; a, as seen from the auditory passage; b, as