865 DELIVERANCE. the placenta, which have occurred in cases he has himself attended, were in those patients on whom he adopted this treatment. We cannot but think that it is this practice which leads the Dublin accoucheurs to lay so much stress on the application of the body bandage, and leads to the following advice of Dr. Col- lins :—“ There is one point, with regard to which our practice should not on any account vary ; which is, never to leave our patient for at least one hour after the placenta has come away1 On the grounds, then, first stated we neither follow nor_ recommend the Dublin practice, but adopt a course apparently more in accordance with the process of nature. Having allowed a little rest, in order to calm the general excitement of the patient, so com- mon immediately after the birth of the child, tied the funis, and separated the infant, the hand is to be passed on to the abdomen to examine the state of the uterus, and determine the presence of another child. Supposing that the case is not one of twins, the condition of the uterus will vary according to the state of the placenta. Generally speaking, within five minutes after the birth of the child, if the labour has been a natural one, and the uterine contractions not unusually powerful, the uterus is found about the size of an adult head, soft, not very distinctly defined, and, on being grasped by the hand, it is felt to con- tract, becoming a harder, smaller, and more defined tumour. On examination the pla- centa is felt to be engaged in the os uteri; and we know that, in all probability', another contraction will propel the mass completely into the vagina. If the uterus be felt through the walls of the abdomen as a hard' circum- scribed tumour, about the size of the fcetal head, or if it be somewhat larger and softer, but gives a sort of yielding sensation under the fingers, like a well-developed female breast, we know that the placenta has passed entirely, or almost entirely, into the vagina. On examination the insertion of the funis can be felt, and the fingers passed around a large portion of the placenta. Again, the uterus may be felt as large as an adult head, hard, and perfectly defined, and the placenta out of reach, or so high that we can only feel a very small portion of it, and cannot detect the in- sertion of the funis ; and in this case we know that the placenta is entirely in utero, and that the uterus has contracted upon it. Lastly, when, on pressing the abdomen, the uterus is found to be so lax, that its extent cannot be distinctly defined, and the placental mass and insertion of the cord are beyond reach, the uterus is known to be in a state of perfect re- laxation, still containing the placenta. Under any of these conditions it is well, provided there be no signs either of external or internal haemorrhage, to wait a moderate time to allow spontaneous contractions to arise, or spasm to abate. The patient should be made comfort- 1 Op. rit. p. 125. VOL. I. able by dry napkins, and not disturbed by any meddlesome manoeuvres, until either the lapse of time or some haemorrhage indicate a neces- sity for interference. If a binder have not been applied during labour, a prepared band- age or a towel may be passed around the ab- domen, or some slight pressure made by the hand on the abdomen, rather to afford a feel- ing of support than to cause pain. In the course of a few minutes the patient complains of a slight pain, the uterus is found to be smaller, and the placenta has descended ; and if it be completely within the vagina, it may be immediately removed by a little traction of the cord in the direction of the axis of the outlet, or by seizing the mass with two fin- gers. It is well to turn it round two or three times, and withdraw very steadily, in order to bring away all the membranes, for, if any be left, they become enveloped in coagulated blood, and cause violent after-pains, consider- ably alarming the patient by their expulsion ; and we know of a case where typhoid fever and decided maniacal symptoms obviously depended on the absorption of fluids which had been thus retained, and become putrid. We cannot be certain that the placenta is in the vagina merely because the insertion of the cord is within reach, as it is sometimes inserted quite to the lower edge of the mass ; the only safe test is, being able to pass the finger around a large portion of the placenta itself. This is an important consideration, for, so long as any considerable portion of the mass remains in the uterus, we should not interfere, unless, as before stated, lapse of time or haemorrhage render its removal necessary. Having carefully examined the placenta to see that it has all come aw'ay, and felt that the uterus has duly contracted, a temporary abdo- minal bandage should be applied, and dry nap- kins placed under the patient, wdio should remain about an hour in the horizontal pos- ture before being disturbed to have any of her dress changed, or the bed-furniture arranged. The nurse should be directed to apply, at the end of the hour, a bandage next the skin, reaching from the trochanters to the false ribs, in order to afford that support which the re- laxed abdominal parietes cannot give, and be- come a useful auxiliary means in securing per- manent uterine contraction. We cannot agree with those who advise us to leave the expulsion of the placenta entirely to the natural efforts; for fully admitting that deliverance is a purely natural process, and that when the placenta had descended into the vagina the muscular fibres surrounding that canal, assisted by the abdominal muscles would be quite sufficient to complete it; yet the va- gina having undergone severe extension and compression, in many cases a very consider- able time would elapse before the return of its irritability. Indeed it would appear that in many of the cases in which the placenta is said to have been retained for several days without danger to the mother, it was simply lying in the vagina, from w'hence it might have 3 K