AMAUROSIS. 98 recognised, nothing short of operation would afford much chance of safety. Even more obscurity exists in the develop- ment of tumours, and there appears but little probability of ever forming an accurate diag- nosis respecting many of them. I consider, however, that the treatment recommended for amaurosis from cerebral organic mischief, is that best adapted to prevent, retard, or subdue such morbid growths. I have not had sufficient opportunity of seeing and examining cases of softening of the brain, ramollissevient, to venture to express my opinion respecting its treatment. The last forms of amaurosis which I have to describe result, I believe, in most instances from altered vascular action throughout the whole nervous apparatus of vision : they are not at first attended with any visible change of structure, and are therefore of a functional kind ; but under a continuance of the disease, morbid alterations ensue. I shall make two principal divisions: 1. That which results from excess of the vascular action, and which has received various appellations, as acute, tonic, sthenic, plethoric, congestive, &c. 2. That which is produced by a deficient action or inadequate supply of red blood, and has been termed chronic, atonic, asthenic, &c. FUNCTIONAL AMAUROSIS FROM EXCESS OF VASCULAR ACTION. This may arise from a general fulness and tension of the vascular system, or depend upon a partial turgescence or fulness, from irregular arterial action or venous congestion. When there is a general tension of the vas- cular system the symptoms are usually well marked. There is general head-ach, giddi- ness, feeling of heaviness or torpor; the amaurosis is most frequently of gradual deve- lopment ; and the patient describes objects as if seen through a mist, cloud, or network, and sometimes as invisible in part, parts, or in toto, without the intervention of a cloud, &c. The condition of vision depends, I consider, upon the principal seat of vascular pressure, differ- ing, as I have before remarked, according as it may be cerebral or choroidal; there is also a sense of fulness about the head and eyes, with heat. Appearances.—The eyes sometimes appear slighty protruded ; the conjunctiva exhibits more red vessels than natural ; the pupils are at first often contracted, but if the disease continues a few days they become somewhat dilated, and the motions of the irides sluggish : the face is frequently flushed, and the patient either restless and anxious, or heavy and in- clined to sleep, and during sleep he snores loudly. All these symptoms are augmented after a full meal, or by position from which the cerebral circulation is facilitated. The skin is hot, and the pulse full, bound- ing, and incompressible. Causes.—Indulgence in the luxuries of the table without due attention to the secretions, especially of the bowels, is the most frequent origin of the vascular fulness ; and this effect is most prevalent in those who have sedentary occupations, and are prevented from taking exercise. Now and then the plethoric state results from two or three acts of excess in diet, in rapid succession, and then the symp- toms are usually more urgent and severe. The same condition of circulation with cerebral determination comes on more slowly in consequence of arrest of inordinate secre- tion, or discharge, or the suppression of some long standing or habitual disorder. When the vascular system has become tur- gid from any circumstance, an amaurosis is easily promoted by much exertion of vision. This form of amaurosis is seldom found in very young persons, and is much more preva- lent about the middle period of life than in those of advanced age. It usually affects both eyes in an equal degree. Treatment.—Speedy relief is obtained as regards the amaurosis by lessening the tension of the vascular system ; and this is best effected by the general abstraction of blood; by vene- section, so as to produce a decided effect on the circulation at the time. Subsequent re- pletion should be prevented by great atten- tion to the secretions and diet, in the cases which have arisen from excess of food or sti- mulus ; but in those instances in which inor- dinate secretion or discharge, or habitual disease, has been checked or suppressed, an endeavour should be made to promote a re- turn of the secretion, &c., or a drain should be established for a time, by seton or issue, in addition to the remedies that I have previously mentioned. The formation of issue or seton at any part will, I believe, produce the desired effect on the circulation, but a more immediate relief may perhaps be afforded to the amaurosis, by placing the counter-irritant in the neck. If the patient will not submit to the forma- tion of issue, &c., he should be purged fre- quently and actively. When the amaurosis results from increased cerebral circulation or congestion, without a general fulness of the vascular system, the symptoms only vary from the foregoing in degree, and in general character. There is usually headach, giddiness, sense of weight or heaviness in the eyes or forehead ; the loss of vision is in most instances gradual, and occurs with much variety of cloud, gauze, &c. Fur- ther, the pupils are often at first contracted, and subsequently dilated, and all symptoms are increased by stooping, or becoming recum- bent. There is not, however, heat of skin, red- ness of eyes and face, or much general torpor; and the pulse often indicates rather a feeble power, being quick and easily compressible, than too much force of arterial action.