29 ABSCESS. fibro-cartilages, &c. The pus formed in osseous tissue meets its greatest resistance at the very outset of its progress, in the peri- osteum and fibrous capsules: from the action of the pus on these structures, or perhaps, more correctly, in consequence of the inflammation extending to them, they fungate, and thus becoming softened and weakened; the pus perforates them, and fuses into the surround- ing cellular tissue, and takes its course along the interstices of muscles, or the line of vessels and nerves from above downwards, making its way towards the surface of the body. The term “ congestion ” however requires further qualification. Pus congested, that is to say, accumulated in a situation more or less remote from its principal source, is not necessarily the product of diseased bone, ligament, or cartilage ; such accumulations of pus may take place without any of these structures being at all affected. When matter is formed behind the peritoneum after simple psoitis, either in the cellular membrane con- necting the psoas muscle with the vertebrae, or in the body of the muscle itself, instead of making way to the surface in its immediate neighbourhood, which it could not so easily do on account of the compactness and resistance of the parts it would have to pass through, it descends in the same course of gravitation, favoured by the laxity of the cellular tissue, which opens a passage for it, by the vertical attitude of the body, and by the movements of the muscles and abdominal viscera, until it can manifest itself externally as a fluctuating tumour. Abscesses by congestion therefore, though so frequently connected with and dependent upon alterations of the osseous structure, as to form in a manner the type of this species of abscess, are not necessarily so, for the pus of any other abscess would be congested in like manner, if the same causes existed to produce the displacement of the fluid, the matter in any case being collected in a declive and distant situation only because a certain condition of parts precludes its being collected near its source, while that of other parts favours its descent and accumulation far- ther off. But to whatever disease these abscesses owe their origin, they form tracks, according to the case, running from the vertebrae of the back or loins, and even from the transverse processes of these bodies, from the posterior extremities of the ribs, from the internal sur- face of the bones of the pelvis and sacrum behind the peritoneum, along the pillars of the diaphragm, in the course of the psoas mus- cle, along the inguinal canal, under the crural arch ; or in the pelvis, along the junction of the sacrum and ilium, following the obturator, or the gluteal vessels according to the resist- ance the pus encounters and even sometimes along the course of the ischiatic nerve, till it forms a fluctuating tumour externally, appear- ing most frequently in the groin, and some- times in the upper part, and upper and inner part, or at the upper and back part of the thigh, at the under edge of the gluteal muscle, in the perineum, at the verge of the anus and vagina. These are by far the most frequent situations in which this species of abscess occurs; but they are also observed close to the knee, on the internal, external, or pos- terior part of the thigh, symptomatic of the disease, so improperly termed, spontaneous luxation of the head of the femur ; and on the lower part of the circumference of the arm, when the shoulder is the seat of the primitive affection. The anatomical conditions of the sympto- matic abscess deserve particular attention. At its source, the bones are more or less pro- foundly attacked, presenting the different varieties of discolouration of substance, fria- bility, softening, disappearance of the lamellar structure, and destruction of substance, which characterize the morbid alterations of bone : the periosteum, or other annexations are in a softened and fungous state ; the walls of the passage by which the pus drains down, as well as those of the reservoir which receives it, are engorged, thickened, and sometimes as firm as cartilage. This canal, which is com- monly more or less tortuous, ends in an ex- tensive cavity filled with pus, which manifests itself as an indolent and fluctuating tumour, in one or other of the situations above men- tioned, with or without an external opening. The lining membrane of the cavity is vascular, thin, of a greyish dark colour, and capable of great activity, more especially when atmos- pheric air has been allowed to penetrate into the cavity of the abscess. The skin covering the tumour retains its natural colour and mobility, and is free, at least at first, from any engorgement that may have preceded or pre- pared the way for the arrival of the pus at the surface. The pus itself in these collections presents various degrees of elaboration. When first discharged, it is thin, mixed up with albumin- ous shreds, clots of blood, and fragments of phosphate of lime, and is of a greyish yellow, or sanious colour. At this time it has a faint disagreeable odour, but after the abscess has been opened a few days, and the air has pene- trated into it, it becomes highly fetid, ex- haling a smell peculiar to the suppurative destruction of bone. Authors have dwelt much in particular description of lumbar abscess, setting it apart, as it were, from abscess of every other kind. The differences which it presents from other varieties are merely such as depend on their cause, progress, and situation ; the general character is however the same. It is suffi- cient to sketch its prominent features in this article, and as the purulent collection in these instances is itself nothing more than the symp- tom of another disease, for its particular cha- racters and pathological anatomy, we shall refer to the articles, Caries, Diseases of the Vertebrae, &c. Having now considered the general cha- racters of abscess, we shall notice a variety of this affection, in which the membrane circum- scribing the pus is wanting, the inflammation