AMPUTATION. 152 much oftener from retraction of the muscles, in consequence of sloughing', or long continued suppuration. The greatest number of conical stumps occur after field amputations, where, from the hurry attendant on their performance, imper- fect dressings, and the want of sufficient assist- ance, the parts inflame, suppurate, and retract. After retraction, the muscles are seen drawn high up in their sheaths ; the external layers are the most retracted, the internal still ad- hering to the bone, which, contrary to the rules of the art, forms the centre of a project- ing instead of a hollow cone. When conicity is the result of miscalculation on the part of the surgeon, at the time of the operation, Mr. Guthrie recommends the removal, by the saw, of such an additional portion of the bone as will allow the remainder to be well covered ; and he thinks it is better to do so at once, before attempting to dress the stump, than to expose the patient to the necessity of under- going another operation at a future time. The surgeon should bear in mind that the degree to which the muscles retract, varies in differ- ent subjects, that his calculation may be erro- neous from oedema, or fulness of the limb, and that he must endeavour to be on the safe side by saving sufficient soft parts to form a good covering. Abscesses and sinuses of the stump and limb. —As a consequence of inflammation, matter in more or less quantity may be formed in the stump, and being pent up, it burrows, and ex- tends into the neighbouring parts. Its pro- gress upwards is facilitated by tracks of cellu- lar tissue lying between the muscles and by the open ends of tendinous sheaths. Some amputations, such for instance as those of the wrist and tarsus, are peculiarly liable to this accident, owing to the numerous synovial sheaths which surround the stump. The most serious consequences may arise, if this diffusion of the matter be not prevented in time. Counter-openings must be made, wher- ever they are required, to give a clear and speedy exit to the pus. The mode of forming those counter-openings has been already de- scribed in the Article Abscess. The reaccu- mulation of the matter must be guarded against by the proper application of graduated compresses along the track of the sinus, and expulsive pressure should be gently made at each time of dressing, in order to prevent any lodgment. With due care, and a proper out- let for the matter, the frightful mischief which would arise from its extension up the limb, will be prevented. Necrosis.—When amputation is performed according to the rules laid down in the pre- ceding part of this article, all proper precau- tions having been taken to preserve the life of the bone, this accident will rarely occur. With the older surgeons, who held to the pernicious practice of scraping the bone, and detaching from it, the soft parts, and the pe- riosteum, the death of some portion of the bone, was not only an ordinary, but an inevi- table event. Now, as well as then, it is most commonly the consequence of want of protection, or sufficient covering from the soft parts. But in some rare instances, the exfoliation may arise from the injury done to the bone by the operation, or in consequence of its being in a diseased state. The bone may also become denuded, and exfoliate from vio- lent inflammation and long continued suppu- ration, or sloughing of the stump. M. Renaud mentions another cause of necrosis, viz., the inflammation of the medul- lary membrane. According to his observa- tions, the periosteum is detached, and the bone dies in the extent occupied by this form of inflammation; abscesses are also formed in the vicinity of the bone. The stump itself, though not inflamed, has a doughy feel; and in some instances, a yellowish hue ; and the suppuration is abundant. When only a small portion of the bone is affected, it will be thrown off, in some cases, after a considerable lapse of time, in the form of a ring, and the stump heals immediately. When the sequestrum extends to the height of several inches, it is a debated point whe- ther it should not be resected out at once, or left to be detached by the slow and natural process of separation. Some surgeons repre- sent this as a very trifling, others as a most serious operation; and both opinions are correct, according to the nature of the case. When the portion to be removed is small, and easily accessible to the saw, the operation will be but a very trifling one ; but when, on the contrary, the skin and muscles have shrunk away from the bone to a considerable extent, its removal may be likened to a second amputation. Bertrandi recommends a per- pendicular fork of wood, whereon to rest the necrosed bone, while the saw is applied to it close to the flesh. When exfoliation takes place, long after amputation, the sequestrum may be sometimes detached by the forceps ; and as a preparation for this event, it will be proper at the time of dressing to shake and work on its end ; if it vacillates in any de- gree, the attempt may be made with some- what greater force. Velpeau affirms that necrosed portions of bone are sometimes shut in by the surround- ing soft parts, and that the cure takes place without their being detached at all. He mentions a case where the stump suppurated, in which the ends of the tibia and fibula were completely necrosed. After remaining ex- posed for a long time, they became gradually lost in the soft parts, and cicatrization took place. When there is considerable denudation, and it becomes necessary to remove the dead bone, care should be taken to detach the muscles to a sufficient extent to secure a good covering for the remaining portion, and in so doing, to avoid as much as possible the great vessels and nerves. Cystitis.—When amputations have been per-