154 AMPUTATION. which is necessary for the accomplishment of the adhesive process. When the stump is kept cool, the traumatic fever is slight, and the sympathetic disorder of the remote or- gans is scarcely perceptible. As soon as the wound is completely cica- trized, the edges are puckered all round ; the muscles converted into a whitish fibrous tissue, the blood-vessels transformed into ligamentous cords, and the nerves are all blended toge- ther in the cicatrix. The nerves are enlarged at their extremities, sometimes to a consider- able size. These productions are formed by the indurated neurilemma, and are often the seat of pains, which are felt more especially at the changes of the weather. The sawed extremity of the bone under- goes also considerable change : the first effect of the reaction is a tumefaction of its tissues. A gelatiniform secretion takes place both from the periosteum and the medullary mem- brane ; it is shed over the whole osseous and medullary surface, and is finally ossified. When this process is completed, the tumefac- tion subsides, and even the bone becomes as it were atrophied, so that its end grows smaller, and more pointed, adhering to the cicatrix in the same manner as the surround- ing soft parts. Modification of the constitution after the ablation of a limb.—When the general health is perfectly re-established, it often happens that the person w'ho has a limb amputated, becomes suddenly corpulent. This is easily explained ; the quantity of food consumed being the same, and the quantity of parts to be nourished being diminished, the nutrition is relatively augmented. The effect of this plethora is often manifested in palpitations of the heart, headach, somnolency, &c. The practitioner should check any tendency to congestion by appropriate means, by bleed- ing, purging, &c., until such time as the equilibrium becomes finally established, and the economy is habituated to the new state of things. PARTICULAR AMPUTATIONS. SUPERIOR EXTREMITY. So great is the value of the least portion of the thoracic limbs, that the rule, in regard to the amputations to be performed on them, is to preserve all we can ; or, in other words, to operate at the most remote point from the trunk, at which the lesion requiring amputa- tion w ill allow. With the caution thrown out, as regards articulations, particularly those of large extent, it may be stated, that amputa- tion, on the various parts of the thoracic member, may be performed either in the continuity or in the contiguity : the points for operation being at various parts of the fingers, at their joints with the ends of the metacarpal bones, or in the continuity of these bones, at the carpo-metacarpal and wrist-joints; at various parts of the fore- arm and arm, at the elbow and shoulder- joints, and amputation has even been per- formed on the clavicle and scapula. AMPUTATION OF THE FINGERS. The amputation of the fingers is scarcely mentioned by the ancients. When first re- sorted to, it appears to have been generally performed in the continuity, and as late as the time of Fabricius Hildanus, it was the custom to chop off parts of the fingers, with a kind of hatchet, or with a chisel and mallet. At the present day, it is most commonly per- formed at the joints. It is, however, unques- tionably, in some cases, more advantageous to saw through the bone ; when the injury is limited to the joint, it will be better to am- putate just beyond it, than to pass a whole phalanx length of sound parts to reach the next joint. This opinion is supported by Ledran, Velpeau, Guthrie, and many other English surgeons. In these, as in all other amputations, the operator should bring to his mind the ana- tomical structure of the parts on which he has to act. The fingers are formed, each of three phalanges, somewhat convex posteriorly, and slightly concave on their palmar surface. On their dorsal surface is expanded and fixed the tendon of the extensor muscle, a small quantity of cellular tissue, and a fine and sen- sitive integument covered anteriorly by the nail. Fixed to their palmar surfaces, lies a fibrous sheath, lined by a synovial membrane, which is reflected from the two flexor tendons it contains. One of these tendons is inserted into the tubercle of the third phalanx, whilst, the other held close in its place by a fibrous band, is implanted by two strips, one on each side into the second phalanx at. about its mid- dle. There is, besides, a good deal of cellular tissue modified to support the skin which is here converted into a membrane of special sensation. There are also two arteries, one at each side, with their accompanying veins, and two large nerves similarly disposed, which exhaust themselves chiefly on the skin, at the end of the last phalanges. The digital articu- lations, strictly so called, are ginglymous ; the metacarpo-digital or knuckle-joints are enarth- rodial. The bare enumeration of the parts entering into the structure of organs devised for such admirable and infinitely varied motions, and connected by an additional bond of sympathy with the rest of the economy, as the organs of touch, will be sufficient to warn the surgeon that the ablation of them may be sometimes attended with serious consequences. When inflammation arises, it is easily propagated along the sheaths to remote and important parts. It will also be obvious that the soft parts on the palmar are better adapted than those of the dorsal surface, to form a flap, and that compression by the dressings instead of ligatures, may, if the surgeon pleases, be em- ployed to stop the bleeding. The bones of the fingers are large in rela- tion to the quantity of soft parts from which