741 CATHETER1SM. pronation ? It would be difficult to account for the origin of the precept unless, perhaps, it had been first broached by one of the old surgeons, who, not contented with the difficul- ties inherent in the process, was anxious to increase them pro Deo et Humanitate. Upon the division of the urethra into the moveable and fixed, or ante-pubic and post- pubic portions, must be founded every rule for the introduction of instruments into the bladder, which is not dictated by fashion or put forward on some plea of imaginary conve- nience. Impressed with this conviction, we take it as the basis of the method which we shall now describe. In our mode, the patient being in the re- cumbent posture, the surgeon stands on his right. The relaxation of the parts having been procured in the manner already described, he seizes the penis behind the glans, between the ring and middle finger, while the index finger and thumb, set on opposite sides of the glans, uncover the orifice of the urethra. The glans being inclined towards the right thigh, the surgeon, holding the catheter like a writing pen, in an arch over the right thigh, presents its bee to the orifice of the glans, which is already turned to meet it. Throughout the whole course which the catheter has now to run, its bee glides upon the right side of the canal, the concavity of its curve looking to the right side, while the curve itself is seen arching the canal above the scrotum, until the point arrives at the bulb. The ease, brilliancy, and lightness of execu- tion of cathcterism depends entirely upon the manoeuvre now to be performed, of passing from the bulb to the entrance of the muscular portion,—the sill, as it w'ere, that divides the whole urethra into its male and female por- tions. The shaft of the catheter is now rest- ing over the thigh, but not in contact with it, and its bee is in the bulb. It must be lifted from the thigh,and brought up to the perpendicular by a movement of a quarter of a circle, the centre of which is the bulb ; in other words, the handle of the cathe- ter moves round a quarter of the base of an inverted cone, while the bee pivots on its apex. But these movements, though described as distinct, must be made to follow each other without interruption; they must not be exe- cuted, as if they were two “ times” of the same process, but must run into and blend finely w'ith each other, so that the movement of lowering, in which they terminate,—that movement in which the handle of the sound is brought down from the perpendicular till it lies inclined between the thighs, shall either bring the bee exactly into line with the mus- cular part of the urethra, when by a gentle impulsion applied at this part of the move- ment, it is propelled directly into it, or top- pling on the right edge of the aperture in the triangular ligament, as it were on the edge of a bowl, it falls into it. There will of course be some variation of the process, where the patient is sounded in the erect posture. In such case, the surgeon may prefer introducing the catheter in a line with the hollow of the groin, instead of arching it over the thigh ; but the variation will merely consist in the instrument describing a lesser fraction of the circle, w hile the hand is bring- ing it up from the groin to the perpendicular. It will be remarked, in the description of our mode of catheterism, that we take no no- tice of the capping of the bee of the catheter, and its stoppage by the folds of the urethral membrane, in its course from the glans to the bulb, and the reason is simply because it never occurs. The bulk of the catheter itself, and the direction given to it, which is visible throughout the whole of this part of its course, are effectual securities against such an occur- rence. Neither do we join in eulogizing “ that admirable and legerdemainlike consent be- tween the operator’s hands, the one hand guiding the catheter omvards, while the other is drawdng the urethra upon it, in the same fashion as Sir C. Bell says a fisherman w'orms his hook.” We do not think that “ the great art of sounding,” as Ledran says, “ is to establish a kind of concert betw’een the hand that supports the sound, and that which guides it, a sort of understanding, by which, alter- nately, the sound is urged onwards in the urethra, and the penis is drawn on the sound.” On these points we have no specific recom- mendation to offer,and being equally convinced of the innocuity, as well as inutility of this manoeuvre, we leave the surgeon to act as he pleases with respect to it, well knowing that he will be equally successful, whether he draw s the urethra on his catheter, with the left-hand, or whether he holds the penis motionless, while he is directing the catheter wi h the right. We differ entirely from Ledran, and all those who have since repeated his recom- mendation of this manoeuvre ; it has, in reality, nothing whatever to do with the art of passing a catheter well. The whole art of sounding in an easy and uninterrupted manner depends upon the smooth carriage of the bee of the catheter from the bulb, through the isthmus, or entrance of the muscular part of the urethra. This, beyond all doubt,is the touchstone of good and graceful catheterism. Great gentleness, and the deli- cate tact, which habit gives, are necessary at this point of the operation, not alone because the instrument has at the same moment to enter the narrow part of the urethra, and hook its sudden turn under the pubis; but be- cause, at the approach to this narrow part of the canal, the dilatation is suddenly con- tracted, the structure of the urethra becomes all at once more dense, and the rim of the opening itself is more resisting than the parts surrounding it. When the movement of lowering the handle of the catheter is being made, it should be accompanied, but not just at first, by an ex- tremely light impulsion onwards, as the ca- theter ought to be made to advance, as much, if not more, by its own weight, than by any