665 CANCER. cranial bones appear on the contrary con- tinuous with it. Here there is no pulsatile movement; there is no aperture felt in the skull, the tumour cannot be reduced, nor does pressure on it affect the cerebral functions in the smallest degree. The disease from which this description is drawn up terminated fatally in eight months after its first appearance. Cruveilhier’s case of cranial colloid was of much longer duration, and w'as in all pro- bability cut short by an injudicious opera- tion. When the morbid production forms in the sub-pericranial cellular tissue, it will neither present any respiratory movement, nor give rise to cerebral symptoms when pressed on, and will of course be irreducible. If the disease originate simultaneously in the sub-pericranial cellular tissue and on the external surface of the dura mater, the bone becomes affected by extension of the morbid change to both its tables ; the diploe is last affected. When the destruction of the bone is complete, pulsation may be distinguished, as in cases of ordinary perforating fungus of the dura mater. (Chelius.) Carcinomatous tumours presenting them- selves on the surface of the skull, are liable to be mistaken for encephalocele, erectile tumours, aneurism, common encysted tumours of the scalp, abscess, and cephalhsematoma. Ence- phalocele is accompanied with both kinds of pulsation adverted to ; but, unless the result of accident, it is almost peculiar to new-born infants, and the facility of reduction, together with the relief following such reduction (unless pressure be too forcibly made), will generally distinguish it from perforating cancer. It is more frequently pedunculated than cancerous growths, and, unlike encephaloid, is of equable consistence in its entire extent.—Erectile tu- mours rarely attain any large size without af- fecting the condition of the skin, and their pulsation may, in general, be diminished, or even stopped, by exact pressure of the ex- ternal carotid. (Espinosa, Velpeau.) Similar pressure, however, would appear to produce a like effect on protruding cancer: the pulsa- tion of the fungus situated over the ear, ob- served by Orioli, was stopped by pressure on the temporal artery. Erectile tumours are more under the influence of the general circu- lation than fungous growths, swelling under all states of undue excitement of the heart’s action; they may be, as in the remarkable case of cranial disease, figured in Cruveilhier’s 33rd Fasciculus, the seat of a strong bruit de soufflet,—at least, when this pervades the entire arterial system.—In one of the cases related by Louis, and in Orioli’s case, the affection was mistaken for an aneurism of the scalp ; the presence of a strong bellows-sound, the absence of opening in the cranium, and the effects of pressure of the trunks of the scalp, coupled with careful investigation of the commemorative signs, will prevent this error; but we should have thought it almost impossible to avoid mistaking a perforating aneurism of the middle meningeal artery for a fungous growth, were it not that the very different and less excusable error of confound- ing this affection with an encysted tumour has actually been committed1.—Encysted tumours are distinguished by their mobility ; abscess, by the presence of signs of inflammatory action, and by the mode of formation of the swelling to which it gives rise.—If occurring in a new-born infant, the disease is liable to be confounded with cephalhcematoma; but fun- gus of the surface of the skull is so ex- tremely rare at this age, that such error is little to be apprehended. There are, we believe, but two facts mentioned by writers, which prove that perforating cancer has ever presented itself in new-born infants ; one of these is the case related by Schnieber • the other the existence, in the Strasburg Mu- seum 2, of a congenital spongy tumour, origi- nating from the outer surface of the dura mater, and protruding through the skull. When occurring in particular situations it seems next to impossible to avoid error as to the nature of meningeal cancer. Where the tumour forces its way into the orbit and dislo- cates the eye, as in cases by J. L. Petit3, by Mr. Travers4, and by Mr. Mackenzie5, it’ as- sumes all the characters of orbital cancer. In Professor Berard’s case of destruction of the olfactory nerves already mentioned, and in another instance figured by Cruveilhier (Livr. viii. pi. 3.), the tumour protruded through the ethmoid bone into the nares ; the similarity to a cancerous nasal polypus might easily have deceived even a practised surgeon ; M. Vel- peau observed a case in which the tumour first appearing at the inner canthus, soft, fluctuating, without discoloration of the skin or pain, simulated a lachrymal tumour, and afterwards an orbito-nasal cancer, depressing the eye and protruding into the nares. A similar instance is described by Louis in which the tumour made its way through the os unguis. The curious deformities of visage produced by some of these growths are well exemplified in fig. 169. The tumour here measured 10 inches 2 lines in lenqth, 5 inches and 2 lines from one eye to the other, and 4 inches and 2 lines in depth, at the deepest part. The greater part of the frontal and of the nasal bones was destroyed; even the hard palate had given way, so that the tumour protruded into the buccal cavity, and obscure fluctuation was there per- ceptible. The patient suffered from diplopia. No autopsy was permitted: Chelius considers the case an example of coexisting disease of the pericranium, dura mater, and bones; there are several circian- stances in the history, making it not improbable, we think, that it sprang from the frontal sinuses. The effects of an attempted operation on this tumour are relatedfurther on. (From Chelius.) 1 See Aneurism, p. 264. 2 Vid. Kilian, Anat. Untersucliungen liber das neunte Hirnnervenpaar, s. 127. Pcstb, 1822. 3 Traite des Maladies dcs Os: t. ii. p. 325. * Diseases of the Eve, p. 411. 3 Diseases of the Eye, p. 80. ed. 1839.