37 EAR, AND HEARING, DISEASES OF. other. Noises in the ear may or may not be present, and when present, they vary as to degree and continuance. Case V.—Exploration of the middle ear bp the air-douche. Obstruction of both Eustachian tubes ascertained, but the removal of which effected no change in the hearing. Saturday, Oct. 13.—Miss K. L. has been very dull of hearing for about twenty years, and supposes the cause to have been a cold. At present hears the watch with the right ear at the distance of five inches, with the left only on application. Has noises in the ears. Hears better in a cold dry air than in warm weather. Hears the chirping of a cricket, even to a painful degree, when a sound ear cannot perceive it. External auditory passages and membranae tympani quite natural, only that on the left side there is not a due secretion of cerumen. Applied the air-douche, and found both Eus- tachian tubes quite impervious. Monday, 15th.—Applied the air-douche to the right ear, and heard at last some bubbles making their way into the tympanum. Tuesday, 16th.—Hearing distance of right ear six inches. Applied the air-douche to the left ear. The air did not at first penetrate, but by and by a few bubbles were heard working their way through the obstruction ; and at last the air entered in a small jet, with a sound partly whistling, partly such as is produced by blow- ing the nose. Wednesday, 17th.—No improvement in the hearing of the left ear, and with the right hears scarcely at such a distance as yesterday. Applied the air-douche to the right ear. The air did not at first penetrate, but, after a slight gurgling, it entered at last in a small shrill, whistling stream. Thursday, 18th. — No improvement in hearing. Applied the air-douche to the left ear. The air now enters freely, and with a rushing sound. Friday, 19th.—No improvement. Applied the air-douche to the right ear. The air entered in the same way as on Wed- nesday. Case VI.—Exploration of the ears by the air- douche, showing obstruction of the Eustachian tubes—complete on one side, incomplete on the other. Hearing not improved by the removal of the obstruction. Mr. J. J. aged about 82, grandfather of the subject of Case IV. Right ear dull of hearing for a long time, .. though pretty useful till within a few years. Has had in the ear a succession of small ga- therings or abscesses. The auditory passage is dry, and is occasionally affected with a troublesome heat, followed by the exfoliation of a thin waxy scale. Left ear has been use- less for thirty years at least. August 1st,1838.—Auditory passages wide ; the right presents a sufficiently healthy ap- pearance ; the left dry and scaly. Does not hear the watch with the right ear, even on close application. Applied the air-douche to the right ear and found the Eustachian tube quite impervious. 2nd.—Hears the watch when applied so as merely to touch the ear. Applied the air-douche again to the right ear. The air now entered at first with a gurgling, then with a howling or whistling sound, as if it penetrated only in a small stream. After the air-douche, the watch was heard when applied to the ear, but the patient thought not so distinctly as before. Friday, 3rd.—Introduced the catheter into the left Eustachian tube ; and, on blowing with the mouth, found the air enter with a gurgling sound. A stream of air from the air-press was then sent in, which was heard to enter with considerable gurgling. No improvement in hearing followed this application of the air-douche to the left ear. Saturday, 4th.—Does not hear the watch to-day with the right ear. Applied the air- douche to the right ear, which entered as before. After the air-douche, heard the watch in the same way as on the 2nd. Case VII.—Exploration by the air-douclie, show- ing perviousness of the Eustachian tube in the ear examined. October, 1838.—Dr. M. N., a retired phy- sician, hears a loud-ticking wooden clock at the distance of four yards with the right ear ; a watch he hears at the distance of two or three inches only. Hears the watch with the left ear only on application. Applied the air-douche to the left ear. The air entered the cavity of the tympanum with a rushing sound. No improvement in hearing was found to have taken place. Friday, December 7th.— In consultation with Dr. Bennett, at Dr. M. N.’s request. Applied the air-douche to the left ear again to-day. The air entered as before, and the Doctor could afterwards hear his watch at the distance of about an inch and a half. A con- traction in the right nostril prevented the in- troduction of a catheter into the right Eusta- chian tube. Remarks.—Case I. showed that simple ob- struction of the Eustachian tube is not of itself sufficient to cause a very great degree of deafness. In Case VI. just related, the duller ear was that in which the Eustachian tube was pervious ; in the other ear the tube was obstructed, but the removal of the ob- struction produced little or no change. In Case V. both Eustachian tubes were quite impervious ; but the restoration of the access of air to the tympanic cavities was not fol- lowed by any amelioration of the deafness. In Case VII. the Eustachian tube of the ear examined was quite free. These, and numer- ous similar facts which could be adduced, ex- pose the incorrectness of the principle alleged in favour of the operations ot perforating the mastoid process and membrana tympani, even supposing the condition said to require one or