338 ANUS. the attempt at its performance, when the pro- cess is unassisted by surgical means. So soon as the finger can appreciate the soft quaggy condition of the tumour, it should be immediately opened, parallel to the anus, from one extremity to the other ; and, after the application of the usual anodyne fomentation, the nates should be placed in a poultice of boiled linseed meal and lard, thick in quantity but rather thin in quality ; and the poultice and nates should be placed on an annular bolster (similar to that which a milk-maid employs to support the pail on her head), that the pus and shreds of decomposed cellular tissue may descend into the poultice by their own gravitation. When by such a liberation and the em- ployment of such means, the local irritability has subsided, an assisting impulse may be given to the local action by adding muriate of ammonia, or spirits of wine, or of turpentine, to the fomentation, and by substituting the grounds of a beer-barrel for water in the poultice. At the same time, the powers of the system must be aided by a liberal administration of permanent stimuli, as animal food, quinine, porter, and wine ; and, if the prostration of strength be great, and the danger urgent, transient stimuli, such as opium, brandy, aether, and camphor, must be resorted to to uphold the system, until the permanent stimuli, by acting upon it, shall render their further em- ployment unnecessary. Nevertheless, it will often happen, in the cases of persons who have resided long in large towns, that, however judiciously they may have been treated, though their lives may be saved, they will require a protracted residence in the country, with all the attend- ant circumstances of comfort and generous living, to complete the cure and restore them to strength. EXCRESCENCES. Tumours, such as are met with in other parts of the body, are developed in the neigh- bourhood of the anus, being sometimes within, at others upon, but more frequently below, the verge. Immediately within the verge of the anus, but more properly belonging to the rectum, there are often produced polypous elongations of the mucous membrane, which have a soft, spongy appearance. These, which at times have a broad, and at others a pedicular at- tachment, are not always apparent until the patient makes great expulsive efforts; but they are easily detected by the finger, and not (infrequently they emerge, prior to the evolution of the faeces. They rarely de- mand manual aid for their removal. A solu- tion of sulphate of zinc, or the introduction of a piece of a candle, smeared with an ointment containing powdered galls, or the application of a solution of nitrate of silver, when the tu- mours are extruded, will suffice for their dis- persion, and oftentimes they are detached of themselves. Warts are found on the circumference of the anus, and are productive of great incon- venience ; the irritation they excite being sometimes so great as to affect the general health. They are not always confined to the circumference, but extend occasionally to some distance within the anus. By touching them occasionally with any of the strong acids they will fall off’, but it is more advisable, and a much readier mode, to snip them off’ at once. Schirrous, encysted, and fungoid tumours occur on, and in the neighbourhood of, these parts ; but they offer no peculiarity to de- mand a special consideration in this place. Cotidylo/natous tumours occupy the skin ad- joining the anus, and appear to be produced by the extension of the irritating fluids from the genitals. They have the same appearance as they present in other parts, save that they are more flattened by the rubbing of the nates, and they yield to the same mode of treatment. RELAXATION OF THE ANUS. The anus, instead of presenting a corru- gated line deeply situated between the but- tocks, is sometimes totally effaced; and the faces of the buttocks glide w'ithout interrup- tion into the gut, so as to represent an in- verted funnel; or the margin of the dilated aperture is loose and flabby, and hangs some- what downwards. In the former case the sphincter has lost a considerable portion of its tonicity, but its functional power is not alto- gether destroyed ; in the latter, its utility as a grasping muscle is entirely lost. Whatever has a tendency to impair its association with the nervous system will necessarily produce relaxation of the sphinc- ter, and in affections of an exhausting charac- ter, the broad shoulder of a glyster-pipe will pass without impediment into the rectum ; but this condition being merely a symptom of some other affection, wall not require fur- ther notice. Neither is there any practical utility to be derived from dwelling on that dilated condition which is produced by the revolting practices of those wretched mon- sters, who, setting at nought the impulses of nature, place themselves out of the pale of society. A descent of the rectum or hsemorrhoidal and other tumours by their continued pressure within the sphincter will impair, and perhaps destroy its contractility, so that when the cause is removed, there yet remains a diffi- culty in retaining the faeces. A long con- tinued use of astringent lotions, such as de- coction of oak-bark with alum, and dashing cold water on the part, may possibly restore the tone of the muscle ; and, by pinching up and cutting off several of the folds about the verge, the diameter of the orifice may be so far diminished by their cicatrization as to