846 CORNEA. Treatise, 2d ed. p. 361. Figure 5. Figure 7. and somewhat below its transverse diameter. Pushing the knife on, it cuts itself out, and a flap is formed, as in the operation for extract- ing the cataract. The flap thus made is seized with a forceps, and the remaining part of the base of the staphyloma divided with a curved scissors, and the whole removed. After the operation, the eyelids of both eyes are to be kept closed by strips of court- plaster, and covered with a light compress and roller. Under ordinary circumstances the wound is found, at the end of a week, closed by a semi-transparent membrane, which by and by becomes denser and more opaque. A flat cicatrice, marked with bluish or brownish streaks, remains. Sometimes a fungus grows from the wcund, which, however, readily sub- sides after being occasionally touched with lunar caustic. Considerable pain attends the operation for staphyloma, and there is usually more or less haemorrhage at the time ; and it occasionally happens that, some hours after, the eyeball becomes distended with blood, and the clots, or infiltrated vitreous body, protrude from the wound. The bloody, dark-coloured mass is to be cut away with scissors, and the eye covered with a compress soaked in cold water. If severe reaction follows the operation, antiphlogistics, anodynes, and warm fomenta- tions, &c. will be required. Though the lens and even some of the vi- treous humour escape, the remains of the eye form a good stump for the application of an artificial eye ; the lens often escapes, and it appears to me that it might always be removed with advantage. After the loss of much or all of the vitreous humour, the eyeball con- tracts to a very small size, and does not afford a proper support for an artificial eye. Conical Staphyloma Cornea. This is a rare affection ; I have seen but one case agreeing with the descriptions given of it. It was in the left eye1 of a scrofulous girl, whose right eye2 was the seat of a very large partial staphyloma. Symptoms.—In the eye affected with the conical staphyloma vision was quite gone. The cornea was enlarged at its circumference, and projected in the form of a pretty regu- lar cone. The sclerotica was distended at its junction with the cornea, and partook of the conical transformation, so that the posterior half of the eyeball formed the basis of the cone of which the apex occupied the middle of the cornea. The eyeball was hard to the touch. At their junction the sclerotica and cornea were of a dark blueish colour. At the apex of the cone the cornea was grayish white, and in the intermediate part it was brownish red, but still retaining some traces of its former transparency, though not sufficient to allow of the state of the interior of the eyeball being ascertained. The eye had a dirty ap- pearance, and its front was pervaded by vari- cose vessels. Diagnosis and Pathology.—Conical is quite different from spherical staphyloma cornese, not only in shape but also in nature. In co- nical staphyloma, it is really the cornea that is degenerated and projected in a conical form. It is to be remarked, however, that this mor- bid change in the cornea is merely a part of a disease, involving not only the anterior half of the eyeball, but also the posterior half; whereas, in spherical staphyloma the latter is ordinarily sound. The morbid anatomy of conical staphyloma is not yet well determined. Cause.—Conical staphyloma is the result of a slow inflammation of the whole eye in an unhealthy constitution. Prognosis and treatment.—Conical staphylo- ma has not the same tendency to enlarge as spherical staphyloma. The disease is for the most part better let alone than interfered with. Suffusion, Opacities, and Specks of the Cornea. Congenital Opacity.—In the foetus the cornea is opaque, but becomes clear towards the period of birth. Cases are occasionally met with in which this fostal character of the cor- nea persists after birth ; generally however, if not always, in combination with dropsy of the aqueous chambers. In a few instances, the cornea has been found gradually to ac- quire its natural transparency, and vision, though myopic, to be obtained. Mr. Ware1 relates several such cases, three of which occurred in one family. In two of the chil- dren the opacity was quite removed in less than a year ; in the third the transparency was not complete until the end of the second year. The corneae remained very prominent, and the vision myopic. In another case both cornese were large, prominent, and completely opaque at birth. At the end of nearly three years, the left cornea had become clear enough to allow the perception of large ob- jects ; the opacity of the right cornea, though diminished round the circumference, remained at the centre so as to obscure the greater part of the pupil. In a fifth case, similar to the preceding, improvement had, at the end of a year, proceeded so far in one eye that the circumference of the cornea was quite trans- parent, and the opacity so far diminished in the centre, that the pupil could be seen. Im- provement was less advanced in the other eye. It is worthy of remark, that in these cases, the clearing of the cornea proceeded from the circumference towards the centre, a course similar to what is observed in acquired opacity of the cornea. Arcus Senilis, or Gerontoxon.—This is an an- nular opacity of the cornea within its circum- ference, which occurs in advanced periods of 1 Observations on the Treatment of the Epiphora, Kc. p. 285. London, 1818. See also Lawrence's