564 CALCULUS. taken in at one view in the following man- ner :— Red crystalline Litliic acid and tlie colouring mat- Sediment com- ter of the urine. The crystals are posed of rhomboidal prisms, which in the field of the microscope, appear tinder the form of pretty regular lozenges, generally of a beautiful topaz-yellow colour singly. Vigla1 and Que- venne. Lateritious, red, or reddish- brown Sedi- ment, com- posed of Yellowish Sedi- ment, composed of Pink Sediment, composed of Lithate of ammonia; purpurate of ammonia and soda; colouring matter of the urine; and occasion- ally an admixture of the earthy phosphates. Prout. Lithic acid combined with the co- louring matter of the urine. Vigla. Essentially of lithate of ammonia; a little lithate of soda, colouring matter of the urine, more or less of the earthy phosphates. Prout. Lithic acid combined with less of the colouring matter of the urine, than in the preceding form of depo- site. Vigla. Lithate of ammonia; purpurate of ammonia. Prout. Almost wholly of lithic acid; some lithate of soda ; an animal matter, and a little phosphate of lime. Que- venne cum Vigla 2. The recent crystallographic and chemical analyses of the lithic deposits of the urine, by Messrs. Vigla and Quevenne, would conse- quently lead us to conclude that these depo- sits were generally more simple in their con- stitution than they were found to be by Dr. Prout. They probably vary considerably in different cases. Such deposits of lithic acid and its salts almost invariably take place on the termina- tion of febrile paroxysms. They are, there- fore, often observed to be critical; and their first faint indications are to be anxiously looked for in the course of severe inflamma- tory and bad febrile attacks. In the earlier stages of such diseases, the urine is scanty and high coloured, but does not deposit ; at the height of the disease it often becomes neutral, sometimes positively alkaline, especially in typhoid fever ; when the disease is about to abate, the urine resumes its proper acid quali- ties ; by and by it shows a light cloud, which the microscope discovers to be caused by a crop of minute crystals of lithic acid. Independently of every thing like active febrile disease, however, the urine often show's a singular disposition to deposit the lithic acid and its salts. There are two periods of life at which this lithic state of the urine in one or other of its forms is more peculiarly apt to present itself; these are infancy, and the years between forty and sixty. These ages may, therefore, be regarded as directly predisposing to a lithic condition of the urine ; whilst every circumstance that tends to occa- sion an increase or excess in the acid and 1 Etudes Microscopiques de 1’Uiine; L’Experience, tom. i. Janvier, 1838. a Op. Cit. p. 184. saline ingredients of this fluid relatively to its quantity, may be viewed as immediately tend- ing to cause a separation of these matters from the state of solution in which they ought always to exist. We have seen how nearly insoluble was the lithic acid itself, and how very sparingly soluble were its salts ; the most soluble of these, the lithate of ammonia, still requires something like 480 parts of water to effect its solution ; so that we have but to suppose the quantity of lithate of ammonia in the urine to be accidentally tripled, which often occurs, to have of necessity a portion of it thrown dow'n as a solid, the watery men- struum of the urine not being then in quantity sufficient to preserve the w'hole of the salt in solution ’. And then it happens that the affi- nity of the lithic acid for the bases with which it occurs combined and by which its solu- bility is somewhat increased, is so slight, that even the weakest of the acids, the carbonic, citric, acetic, &c. are powerful enough to dis- possess it, and effect its precipitation in a con- crete form 2. The most efficient cause in engendering lithic acid is indulgence in large quantities of animal and other kinds of nutritious food ; and that which most promotes the sepa- ration of the lithic acid, either from the peculiar colouring matter, or alkaline base combined with which it is rendered soluble and innocuous, is the presence of a free acid in the body, whether introduced or engen- dered there. These facts give a key to the right under- standing of the whole of this most interesting subject ; happily also, they afford an indication of what is needful to be done in order to cor- rect the morbid states with which an excessive production and a tendency to the deposition of lithic acid w'ithin as well as without the body are connected. Do we not in fact see the infant living on a highly azotised and peculiarly animal food, which has further a singular tendency to acescency, precisely the two conditions requi- site to the production and precipitation of lithic acid ? Can wre wonder, then, that urine which deposits lithic acid and its salts, should be common in infancy ? especially when w'e add that the children of the poorer classes who are most obnoxious to this state of urine, independently of their immensely larger rela- tive numbers, are peculiarly open to all the other influences that are held favourable to the inducement of deposition from the urine —such as exposure to cold in consequence ol scanty clothing and indifferent lodging, and to derangements of the stomach and bowels from coarse and improper food. Again, when we regard the age between forty and sixty, the next period in human life that is marked by liability to the precipitation of crystalline lithic acid from the urine, we 1 T. Thomson, Cyclop, of Pr. Med. Art. Calculus. 5 Thenard, 'finite de Chimie.