FRACTURE. 264 smd redness, and softening, are evidences of what has been going on. By the third day softening and roughening of the more in- flamed parts of bone are abundantly discover- able, and perhaps even some new bone. Fig. 289. a h o The diagrams a, b, and r, represent the tibia of a rabbit on the fourth, the eighth, and the twentieth day after fracture. The repairing exostosis is seen forming around the shaft at a distance from the bro- ken end; and in b it is increased, and approaches nearer the point of fracture, c is the result of compound fracture, but the process is the same in kind. Externally, there was active peri- osteum, on the two parts, which became united, and then united the two parts of new bone. Within were granulations secreting pus, and adhering to both new and old bone as efficient periosteum, day's Hospital Museum contains a series of nine gra- dations of the above appearances. Fig. 290. Notwithstanding all that has been said to the contrary, it is about the fourth day after fracture that bone begins to be formed beneath the periosteum, — a few lines or a few inches from the broken ends; and gradually, in the course of four weeks, less or more, a new tube firmly en- circles each portion of shaft up to its broken margins, and is prepared to unite with that which has been daily approach- ing towards it. First, however, the two tu- bular portions of pe- Fig. 290 is a somewhat more careful drawing of the counterpart of fig. 279. It represents the lower end ot the tibia, obliquely fractured, impacted, and very partially repaired by new bone on the surface, at the line of fracture. The long point of the upper frag- ment, which penetrates the cancelli below, is a very narrow spiculufrom the fissure adjoining in the lower fragment. See the description of fig. 279. riosteum must unite, in whole or in part, ex- actly in the same manner as we have remarked that the membrane cicatrized, so to speak, by adhesion or by granulation in the example of the stump; and as soon as this is effected, ossifie union begins. There is a very common case which most distinctly and fully verifies the process last described : I refer to that of fractured ribs. In animals the effects are still more re- markable by reason of the more unrestrained or more excited activity of the process when uninfluenced by art ; for here a thick node forms around each broken end, and the two ends move against each other (being more or less completely knit together by soft tissues and periosteum), until repeated external de- posits of bone, with the contractions of tissue around, have rendered motion so difficult or so limited, that the ossifie union is secured at some one point, and then it is speedily completed. Fig. 291. A fractured rib, supposed to be human ; sketched from if preparation in the collection of ProfessMott in New York. There is excessive ossificationffiut as yet no union: membrane had enveloped and separated the tivo, as the periosteum of st umps. All the steps of these changes are extensively illustrated in the collections at Guy’s Hos- pital, and, indeed, I have found examples of them in different museums. The fibula, when broken singly, may afford evidence of the same train of actions to an exaggerated de- gree, when motion prevents union and ex- cites repeated attacks of inflammation. This