FURUNCULUS. 396 several others, which either exist at the same time, or follow each other in rapid suc- cession, on various parts of the body. This fact, together with the form of the tumour, its circumscribed base, the period of life at which it generally appears, and the circum- stance of its invariably discharging its con- tents, when mature, through a single aper- ture, form the chief distinguishing features between Furunculus and Anthrax. The ordinary rise and progress of one of these tumors may be thus briefly described. A tingling, or sense of itching, is perceived on some part of the skin, which, on being touched, presents evidence of induration, and is generally attended by an inflammatory blush on the surface. Occasionally a patient is attacked with rigors before the furuncle makes its appearance, or he complains of headache, nausea, &c.; but these symptoms disappear as the tumor manifests itself. It at first appears in a defined form, as a small, reddish pimple. This slowly increases in volume, becoming more tense, smooth, and glossy, more deeply red,—the inflammatory blush at its base, at the same time, increas- ing in circuit,— and more acutely painful, in proportion as it assumes the conical form, or, in common language, as it points. The pain is of a throbbing, burning character, and is frequently extremely severe. If the tumor become of considerable size, or if many make their appearance at the same time, the usual indications of febrile excitement are to be observed ; generally mild in degree, but occasionally much aggravated, by the disturb- ance, or entire loss of natural rest to which the patient is subjected. Such symptoms, whenever they occur, are to be regarded truly as consequences of the affection : they are never found to be premonitory. When the furuncle has arrived at maturity, which happens generally between the fifth and tenth day, it opens spontaneously at its summit, where, for some short time previous to this event a white, or yellowish phlyctenoid speck has existed ; and the tension being thus, in part, removed, the pain and other urgent symptoms commence gradually to decline. Through the single aperture just noticed, issues a small quantity of pus, slightly tinged with blood. In addition to this fluid, there is contained in the tumor a corrupt looking, fibrous, irregular clot, of a greyish colour, forming, as it were, a central nucleus, and commonly known as the Core. The French have given the name of “ bourbillon ” to this substance. Celsus, in his description of the furunculus, dwells on it as one of the pecu- liar signs of the disorder ; he speaks of it as “ pars eorrupta, subrubra, quern ventriculum quidam furunculi nominant It consists merely of a portion of the dermic cellular tissue, which has been deprived of its vitality by the violence of the inflammation and con- striction to which it has been subjected, and been afterwards detached from the secreting parts around it2. When this disorganized mass is thrown off, or removed, all pain ceases; the secretion of pus becomes gra- dually lessened, the apex of the tumor re- tracts, the cavity is filled up, cicatrization slowly takes place, and lastly, the thickened and indurated structures in its neighbourhood become restored to their natural condition. A certain form of furuncle is described by some authors under the name of the Chronic Furuncle. “It frequently occurs,” says Mr. Pearson, “ in subjects that have suffered severe- ly from the small-pox, measles, lues venerea, scrofula, and in constitutions that have been injured by the use of mercury.” It seems only to differ from the ordinary furuncle, in the less degree of pain with which it is at- tended, in the slowness of its progress, being described as seldom arriving at maturity in less than three or four weeks, in the ill-con- ditioned nature of its contents, and, lastly, in its indisposition to granulate and heal. It is, in fact, an ordinary furuncle, modified by a cachectic condition of constitution. Another and more grave variety has been described by M. Guersent3, under the name of furoncle atonique, and by Dr. Copland4, under that of the asthenic furuncle. Accord- ing to the account of the affection given by these gentlemen, it presents several peculiar characters. The furuncular tumours exist many at one time, never fewer than five or six, and chiefly appear in the trunk and late- ral parts of the neck. In their commence- ment they resemble in appearance the ordi- nary furuncle in its early stage, excepting that they sometimes occur nearly colourless. Their progress is also very similar until after they have become open. They then at first discharge “ a serous, sanguineous, or ichorous fluid. The tumours soften and disappear; and the perforations of the chorion enlarge rapidly, producing, in two or three days, holes in the integuments, varying from three or four, to six or seven, or even eight or nine, lines in diameter. These perforations are perfectly round; their margins are not elevated, nor thickened, nor injected ; and they entirely resemble the holes made by a drill or auger. The cellular tissue is not thrown off in the form of a core, but is destroyed by rapid ul- ceration, or phagedenic absorption. The bot- toms of the ulcers have a greyish or sanious appearance, and are nearly dry. There is no discharge from them, nor have they any ten- dency to scab ; and the perforations of the integuments frequently proceed down to the muscles or aponeuroses, the peculiar structure of which may often be seen at their bottoms5.” These perforations vary in size, but all assume a similar character to that just described. All the instances noticed of this affection - For an anatomical account of tlie structures con- cerned in this action, see vol. i. Art. Anthrax, p. 327. 3 Archives Gen. dc Med. t. i. p. 326. ■* Diet, of Pract. Med. s Op. cit. vol. i. p. 1054. 1 Cels. lib. v. c. xxviii. 8.