ARTICULATIONS. 405 as in the pelvic symphises,—which is inter- posed between them, and firmly united to the surface of each. Articulations of this class are in general strengthened by the addition of circumferential ligaments. In the third, or highest order, to which belong the joints of the extremities, the surfaces of the bones are covered with cartilage, and play upon one another; the connection is maintained by ligaments, disposed in various forms, and the motion is facilitated by the viscid secretion of a synovial membrane. Into several complex articulations of this class, there also enters fibro-cartilaginous tissue, sometimes disposed in the form of an intermediate layer between two surfaces of bone, but having no attachment to either, as in the inferior maxillary, sterno- clavicular and knee-joints,—at other times arranged around the margin of an articular cavity, forming what Meckel terms fibro- cartilages of circumference, as in the hip-joint. It is obvious that these different classes, ascending from the most simple form, in which a junction can be effected, to one very com- plex and intricate, will present striking dif- ferences in their proneness to morbid actions ; and it will be found that this proneness is in close relation to the degree of complexity. In the simplest form of which bone is the only constituent, we meet with no articular disease, unless indeed we are to style as a dis- ease their separation, which is described by Jourdain in the Dictionnaire des Sciences Medicales. The known diseases of the se- cond class, though important and highly inte- resting, are comparatively few in number. 'I'he morbid states of the third class are very numerous, frequent in their occurrence, and often most disastrous in their consequences. The lesions, of which joints are susceptible, arrange themselves naturally in two divisions, according as they arise from external or inter- nal causes. The lesions belonging to the former of these divisions are three in number. 1. Wounds.—The wound of a joint consists essentially in an opening being made into the synovial capsule. This opening may be a simple penetration of the capsule by the point of a nail, or it may be the widest exposure of the articular cavity, attended with disruption of ligaments, and splintering of the head of a i hone. In either case, the most energetic | treatment is demanded on the part of the sur- geon to prevent the fatal effects that fre- quently ensue. 2. Sprains.—A sprain consists in the violent distention or actual rupture of ligamentous fibres, without displacement of articular sur- faces. It is the consequence of a strong clibrt to extend the motions of a joint beyond j the limits which nature has assigned. It is not often produced by muscular action, or by I force applied in a direction parallel to that of the ligamentous fibres. More commonly, it arises from the weight of the body being brought to bear on the ligaments obliquely. Hence it occurs most frequently in the ankle- I joint, or in the wrist after a fall upon the hands. It has been customary to include, under the head of sprains, the morbid con- dition, termed diastasis, or relaxation of liga- ments ; but, as this condition arises from in- ternal causes rather than from injury, it will be classed with more propriety among the idiopathic diseases of ligamentous tissue. 3. Luxation.—The application of force un- der certain circumstances may determine a change in the natural relations of the articular surfaces ; either partial, as when the head of the humerus rests on the brim of the glenoid cavity,—or complete, as when the head of the femur is carried into the foramen ovale. This state of things occurs, most commonly, in joints of the third order, and, as a general rule, is found to be more or less frequent in them, according to the degree of mobility which they enjoy, the rationale of which is sufficiently obvious. When complete luxa- tion is attended with laceration of the liga- ments and synovial capsule, and with violent stretching or even rupture of the muscles in- serted into the head of the luxated bone, when uncomplicated and recent, it is a lesion over which surgical skill has great control. Sometimes, however, it is complicated with a wound of the joint, in which case it is termed compound dislocation, and constitutes one of the most formidable accidents to which the human frame is liable. In articulations of the second order, luxation is not a very common occurrence, and is usually accompanied by fracture. Dislocations of the cervical ver- tebrae sometimes, however, occur without any such complication. Occasionally luxa- tion is a consequence of disease in the articu- lation, but in this case the phenomena pre- sented differ widely from those produced by external agency. The task of classifying the lesions of joints arising from external injury is not more easy than that of classifying their idiopathic diseases is difficult. Until of late years, no sound or correct basis of classification has been adopted. Symptoms were elevated into diseases, and diseases the most various were blended under one comprehensive title, until the whole subject became involved in inextricable confusion. The broad stream of light which morbid anatomy, aided by general anatomy, has thrown upon disease, has re- moved some of these evils, and every surgeon must feel gratification in paying a tribute of warm admiration to the merits of Sir Benja- min Brodie, by whose admirable researches the pathology of articulations may be said to have been created. Previously to the pub- lication in the Medico-Chirurgical Transac- tions of the papers which formed the basis of Sir Benjamin’s well-known and most valuable work on the diseases of joints, it was cus- tomary to rank all the serious maladies to which articulations are liable, under the con- venient but unhappy term of white swelling. Thus Benjamin Bell treats of diseases of joints under the following heads :—1. Collections within the capsular ligaments. 2. Concre- tions and excrescences, within the capsular ligaments. 3. White swelling. Mr. S. Cooper makes a similar division, but adds a treatise