6DD CANCRUM ORIS. In the fifth case the pulmonary symptoms preceded the development of gangrene, which had not destroyed the whole thickness of the cheek, yet after death the inferior half of one lung was found in a state of hepatization. In the sixth and seventh cases the gangrenous de- struction of the mouth was superficial ; there were no symptoms of pneumonia during life, and after death nothing was found in the chest except small tubercular cavities in the lungs. In the eighth case the child had laboured under symptoms of chronic pneumonia for some time, when the mouth became affected ; he died just as the gangrene was extending to the cheek ; both inferior lobes of the lung were found in a state of red hepatization ; yet the symptoms during life, were far from indi- cating such an extensive lesion of the thoracic viscera. The ninth case was that of a child debilitated by scarlatina and labouring under anasarca ; the gangrenous affection had de- stroyed all the gums and a great part of the inner wall of the right cheek; there was no inflammation of the pulmonary tissue, but both pleurae and the pericardium contained a quan- tity of serum. The subject of the tenth case was a girl, seven years of age, who laboured un- der typhoid fever ; eighteen days before death symptoms of severe pneumonia set in, and in thirteen days were followed by those of gan- grene of the mouth, which did not extend beyond the gums and lower lip ; after death both inferior lobes of the lung were found ex- tensively hepatized. The only practical con- clusion which the preceding observations en- title us to draw is that the pneumonia always preceded the gangrenous destruction of the mouth ; but we cannot discover any relation between the intensity or extent of the two affections. The pulmonary symptoms were often masked by the local disease ; they were seldom very severe, and do not seem to have exercised any well-marked influence in hasten- ing its progress or rendering the destruction of the face more extensive. Gangrena oris is sometimes complicated with an analogous affection of other parts of the body. We have already mentioned gan- grene of the lungs. In one remarkable case observed by the writer, there occurred in the arm, under the pectoral muscle, and on the calf of the leg, tumefactions exactly similar to that of the cheek, but the child sank before they passed into actual gangrene ; when ex- amined after death the swollen parts presented the peculiar appearances of the cellular tissue which surrounded the mortified portion of the cheek. In girls, gangrene of the pudenda sometimes accompanies that of the mouth. The other complications will be noticed under the following head. Pathological anatomy.— The lesions pro- duced by gangrena oris are found in all parts of the cavity of the mouth, but there is some variety according to the form of the disease and its primary seat. The pseudo-membran- ous form is usually confined to the gums, and never occupies the tongueorroof of the mouth ; the ulceration may exist at any point of the buccal cavity, but chiefly occupies the gums : the dry form almost always commences at the middle of either cheek 1; sometimes on one of the lips (especially the lower one) but never on the tongue. The original seat of the lesion also occasions some slight differences of ap- pearance ; when it commences on the gums, the latter are found covered with a whitish, pulpy, exudation, underneath which the tissue of the gum is tumid and soft; at a later stage the tissue is reduced to a black, foetid pulp, which is detached with the greatest facility, leaving the alveolar processes underneath exposed, black, and sometimes necrosed. On the soft parietes of the mouth the first degree of gan- grenous destruction consists in the formation of small yellowish points, resembling aphthae, underneath which are concealed small irregu- lar ulcerations. The next stage differs accord- ing to the form which the disease may have assumed. If it be the pseudo-membranous, then the ulcerations are covered by a yellow, irregular, foetid, and soft layer which adheres more or less firmly to the subjacent ulcer ; if it be the ulcerative, the loss of substance is greater, and the surface of the ulcer is lightly covered over by a browm or dark pulpy matter 2. The dry form presents all the characteristics of true gangrene. It is seldom that wre have an opportunity of seeing it in the earliest stage, but w'hen we do w'e find a small brown eschar occupying the mucous lining of the cheek, near the alveolar edge of the gums, at their middle point. This eschar is sometimes sur- rounded by an inflammatory appearance, but in most of the cases which we have ourselves examined, the mucous tissue around was merely infiltrated. In a more advanced stage the walls of the cheek, gums, lips, &c. are con- verted into a black, soft, homogeneous mass, w'hich exhales a strong gangrenous odour; the surrounding tissues present an hypertrophied and granular appearance, and the cellular sub- stance is extensively infiltrated with a straw- coloured fluid, resembling serum ; the perios- teum of the maxillary bones is destroyed ; the teeth loose or wanting, and the jaw bones themselves more or less black, or sometimes necrosed. In a few cases the mucous mem- brane of the pharynx and oesophagus is here and there covered with a dark fur, or in a state of gangrene. Various lesions are found in the intestinal canal, the most frequent of which is inflammatory softening of the great intestines. In the cerebral cavity we seldom find lesions of any importance ; the membranes and nerv- ous substance are commonly pale, and some fluid is effused into the ventricles or the sub- arachnoid space. The other pathological ap- 1 Dr. Marshall Hall and Dr. Willis say that the left cheek is the one almost always affected. This is an error : the gangrenous affection commences indiffer- ently on either side of the face; in twenty cases which I have examined to determine this point, I find that it commenced in nine on the right side; in ten on the left; and in one on the lower lip. 2 Taupin, 1. c.