FRACTURE. 3G6 Sir A. Cooper ha3 made a series of obser- vations on the head of the femur in old age, which are quite indispensable to our know- ledge both of the fractures, and of the mode of reparation in these parts. “ The neck of the thigh-bone,” he says, “ in persons of middle age, has a close cancellated structure, and is covered with a shell of considerable thickness; but, in old subjects, the cancellated structure degenerates into a coarse net-work, loaded with adipose matter; and the shell which covers it becomes so thin, that when a section is made through the middle of the head and cervix, it is found diaphanous ; of this 1 have several specimens. As the shell becomes thin, ossific matter is deposited on the upper side of the cervix, opposite the edge of the acetabulum, and often a similar portion at its lower part, and thus the strength of the bone1 is in some degree preserved : this state maybe frequently seen in very old persons. When the absorp- tion of the neck proceeds faster than the deposit2 on its surface, the bone breaks from the slightest causes, and this deposit wears so much the appearance of an united fracture, that it might easily be mistaken for it. Be- fore the bone thus alters, we sometimes meet with a remarkable buttress shooting up from the shaft of the bone into its head (formed of strong cancelli) giving it additional support to that which it receives from the deposit of bone upon its external surface. But another change is also produced from disease, of which the following is the history. Old, bed-ridden, and fat persons, generally females, often used to be brought into our dissecting room with some of their bones broken, and more fre- quently the thigh-bone than any other, in being removed from the grave. If the cervix femoris of such persons be examined, it will be found that the head of the bone is sunk down upon its shaft, and that the neck of the thigh -bone is shortened, so that its head is in contact with the shaft of the bone oppo- site to the trochanter minor; and at the point at which the ligament is inserted into the neck of the bone, the phosphate of lime is absorbed, and a ligamento-cartilaginous sub- stance occupies its place ; either extending (as a plane), entirely through the neck of the bone, or partially, so that one section exhibits signs of it, and in another it is wanting. The bone, in some cases, is so soft and fragile, both in its trochanters and head, that it will scarcely bear the slightest handling ; and the motion of the thigh-bones in the acetabulum is almost entirely lost, so that the persons must have had little use in their lower extremities. In examining the body of an old subject, very much loaded with fat, in the dissecting room 1 See general remarks on excavation of bone, page 273. 2 It may happen, as from rheumatic inflammation, that the ossification on the neck, even to the margin of the articular cartilage, shall become excessive; and even the solidity of the cancellus is in some cases pre- ternatural, in connexion perhaps with general predis- position. of St. Thomas’s Hospital, I found that the gentleman who had dissected one limb, had cut through the capsular ligament of the hip- joint, and tried to remove the head of the thigh-bone from the acetabulum; but the neck of the bone broke on the employment of a very slight force, and, upon a further trial to remove it, the bone crumbled under his fingers. As the other limb was not yet dissected, I requested Mr. South, one of our demonstrators, to remove, with care, the up- per part of the other thigh-bone ; but, al- though he used great caution in doing it, he could not remove the bone without fracturing the upper part of its shaft; but he succeeded in removing the upper part of the bone, so that it might be preserved ; and of this I have given plates. “ We have here then a case in which the neck of the bone was absorbed, so that the head was brought in contact with the tro- chanter ; in which, most decidedly, there had not been a fracture, although it had in some parts the appearance of one ; and in which the disease occurred in each hip-joint. “ Another case of the same kind was ex- amined by Mr. South, which, so far as it relates to the softened state of the upper part of the thigh-bone was similar to the former; the heads were spongy, the necks were short- ened, so that there was scarcely any remain- ing ; each trochanter was light in weight and very large ; and there was little if any mo- tion in either of the hip-joints, so that both limbs appeared at first sight, as if dislocated on the pubes. But the best specimen of this state is the following, which I preserve with the most assiduous care, and value in the highest possible degree: I have had for twenty years in the collection of St. Thomas’s hospital—the thigh-bone of an old person, in which the head of the bone had sunk to- wards its shaft. I have been in the habit of showing this bone twice a year as a specimen how bones sometimes become soft from age and disease, and from the absorption of their phosphate of lime, and I have frequently cut with a pen-knife, both its head and its con- dyles, to show this softened state. On sawing through its cervix, the cartilage, deprived of its phosphate of lime, had dried away in several parts, and the appearance was such, that a person ignorant of the change, would have declared it to be a fracture ; only, that in some sections the cartilage had taken dif- ferent directions, (as a thin plane between the head and neck), and in some the bone was not yet entirely absorbed. We have also, in the museum of St. Thomas’s Hospital, a ske- leton, in which both the thigh-bones and each os humeri, are, in a subject, extremely altered by rickets, divided by similar portions of car- tilage, in which no ossific matter exists 3.” From the above we find the necessity of very important distinctions : First, relative to 3 Treatise on dislocation and fractures of the joints, edited by' Bransby B. Cooper.