ARM, BEND OF. 372 aneurism which are sometimes seen between the femoral, carotid, and axillary arteries and their corresponding veins, See. several examples of which are already recorded in the annals Fig. 109. Fig. 109 represents the front and deep region of the elbow of the left arm. a a, The biceps muscle and its tendon, both placed sideivays. b. The tuberosity of the inner condyle of the os humeri, c. The supi- nator R. longus muscle, d, The pronator radii teres divided, and thrown aside, to allow of the vessels being seen, e e e, The basilic vein partly cut away, where probably the median basilic vein joined it. f Probably the median cephalic, g. The radial vein, h, The “ communicating vein ” much enlarged and springing from an enormous satellite rein, i; this “vena communicans ” is in a direct line with the canal which existed between the brachial artery, and its deep accompanying rein ; j, marks the point, where this canal has been laid open to show it more fully. Close to the letter h is another aperture, where, probably, some enlarged vein was cut array. This sketch shows most distinctly that the superficial veins of the arm became varicose, and aneurismal, by means of the “ vena communicans." i i. The satel- lite reins {venue comites), which decreased as they became more distant from the wound in the brachial artery; they have been removed at the point where the ligature («) surrounded them, not presenting any remarkable feature, j. At this canal, between the artery and deep-seated vein, it was impossible to say where the artery began or ended; it was like a per- fectly new vessel, existing naturally between the vein and artery, k k k. The brachial artery with its lower division into radial and ulnar arieries which were extremely small, thin, and more like veins. 11, Tice median nerve which was tied with the artery (at m) at the first step of the operation, n. The second liga- ture which traversed the artery, merely taking in about two-thirds of its circumference. of surgery. It is probable that the lancet passed through the median basilic vein, then through the satellite vein, and finally into the artery, making thus no less than five openings in these vessels ; viz. two in the median ba- silic, two in the satellite veins, and one in the artery, which may also have been pierced through and through ; making in that case six apertures in those vessels. The superficial veins, principally the basilic and cephalic, were extremely varicose, apparently owing to the free anastomosis established between them and the deep-seated veins, by that im- portant trunk the “ vena communicans.” By the assistance of this vein, the blood propelled by the artery into the satellite vein would find less difficulty in passing directly into the su- perficial veins, which are larger, and perhaps more easily dilated than the deep-seated veins, than it would experience in distending the veme comites, or satellite veins, which are considerably smaller. This observation also proves that the artery becomes dilated above the injury, and diminishes in size below it, where its trunk, as well as its branches, par- take more of the appearance of veins than of arteries ; a fact which is given as a novelty by M. Breschet, but which is distinctly men- tioned in several places by his predecessor, P. Adelmann, to whose interesting memoir we shall presently refer. This diminution of the artery below the wound is easily accounted for, by that general law which holds in patho- logy, that when an organ no longer fulfils its natural function, it diminishes in size, or wastes away: here, the arteries below the wound receive very little blood, and there- fore have scarcely any labour to perform, while, on the contrary, the veins having much more to do, increase in size and thick- ness, and appear arlerialised. The blood which ought to pass on to the extremity of the limb stops half way, and returns by the new and unnatural canal between the artery and the vein, which is a sufficient explanation, according to Delpech, of the wasting away of the fore-arm. This dissection likewise shows:— 1. How difficult it is to point out the exact spot where the lancet had pricked the artery ; and therefore the proposal of cutting down to that point, and applying a ligature upon the new canal, is not, as is stated, a very easy and simple proceeding :—2. That surgeons may easily be deceived with regard to the precise point where injury has been inflicted on the artery by the lancet, owing to the basilic vein lying over, and nearly corresponding to the situation of the artery and its accompanying veins. It may perhaps, in future, be possible to distin- guish when the anastomosis exists between the artery and deep veins, and when between the artery and the superficial veins, by pay- ing particular attention to the exact spot of the greatest intensity of the thrilling sensation and whizzing noise, which will probably air- pear to come from a lower part than where the cicatrix at the bend of the arm is seen; and also the dilatation of the superficial veins will be the greatest at the point where the “ vena communicans” joins the superficial and deep veins together, which is much lower down the fore-arm than where bleeding is performed :—3. That the Brasdorian operation of tying the artery on the distal side of the aneurism would have no chance of success in an old case of varicose aneurism, owing to the free passage of blood through this new