ABSCESS. 25 am certain that it acts on the uterus at any period after conception, and even on the un- impregnated condition of the organ. I have found it in numerous cases an efficient emmen- agogue; and consider it irreconcileable to science to suppose that any medicine can only act on an organ when it is performing a part of its function, but not at any other time. The treatment of women after abortion must vary according to the symptoms of the case. When there is prostration of the vital powers, or great debility, the use of stimu- lants, tonics, and invigorating aliment, will be necessary. The health is often shattered and ruined by repeated abortions, and must be restored when possible by appropriate means. Warm rooms, tight lacing, late hours, and all debilitating causes are to be avoided. When the abortion occurs between the fourth and sixth month, or when premature labour comes on from the seventh to the ninth month, the same treatment ought to be employed as after natural parturition. When abortion is habitual, it is difficult to prevent it by any means that may be employed. The following plan will in general succeed, if regularly pursued :— 1°. As soon as conception has occurred, the patient ought to be confined to a sofa, or to bed, in which she should remain until the usual period at which she aborted before, is passed. II . Leeches ought to be applied to the hypo- gastric region, groins, or external labia, a few days before the recurrence of each men- strual period ; or small bleedings may be had recourse to instead. The venesection, or sanguisuction, and opiates should be re- peated before each menstrual period, until the pregnancy has advanced a month or two beyond the former period of abortion. . 111°. Aperients are necessary to regulate the bowels, but all drastic medicines ought to be avoided. The combination described below *, followed by seidlitz, soda, or lemon- ade powders, castor oil, or magnesia, with a small quantity of lemon juice, are highly useful. It acts efficiently without causing any tormina, or exciting the uterus. IV0. The diet ought to consist of vegetable jellies, such as arrow-root, sago, tapioca, Iceland or Irish moss, &c. V°. Conjugal intercourse ought to be strictly prohibited. I have employed this plan of treatment from the third to the eighth month, in the case of a lady of rank, who had had seven abortions be- tween the third and fifth months of former pregnancies. She arrived at the full term, and brought forth an heir, who secured the estates and title which would have otherwise passed into the possession of a different branch of the family. Dr. Dewees, Dr. Jackson, and others have applied blisters to the sacrum and ab- 1 Fit Extracti colocynth. comp. 9ij ; extracti hyos- cyami 9j ; hydrargyri subinur. 9ss; olei merit ha; piper, lit. V. In pilulas xij. vel xv. divide, quarmn sumatur una mane noctequc si npus sit. domen in such eases, with a view of exciting counter-irritation, and preventing uterine ac- tion ; but the former has not employed them for some years past. Tonics, chalybeates, mineral waters, change of air, sea-bathing, or cold bathing, are highly beneficial, during or after the convalescence of abortion in delicate, nervous, and irritable habits, predisposed to the disease. Stimulating liniments alone, or mixed with tonics, may be rubbed on the loins and hypogastric region, and are much praised by recent authors. These means ought to be em- ployed between the conceptions, and a con- jugal separation ought to be observed after abortion, as pregnancy very speedily occurs to women liable to this disease. The debility caused by abortion is accom- panied by great pallidity, or a tendency to anaemia for which the preparations of iron are highly advantageous. I have given the car- bonate of iron with aromatic powder in many cases with the best effects. The other pre- parations of this medicine are also valuable. Tonics, quinine, the chalybeate mineral waters, nutritious aliment, pure air, and other restora- tive means are highly necessary. (M. Ryan.} ABRASION, from abrado, to shave off. The mechanical removal of the epidermis, whether from the violent friction of machinery, or from slow but continued rubbing, by which the cellular tissue is exposed; in vulgar lan- guage, the denuded parts are said to be “raw.” Occurring on the mucous surfaces, abrasion is a superficial excoriation, from which mem- braniform shreds are detached. The mucous membrane of the urethra is said to be abraded when violence is done to it by awkwardness in sounding, or by the unmethodical applica- tion of caustic. ABSCESS. Abscessus, derived from the verb abscedere, to depart, or separate from. The word is known in medical language, since the time of Celsus, and is applied to every species of accumulation of pus, that ob- tains, in the various structures of the body. Pathologists are not agreed, whether the term has arisen in virtue of the anormal sepa- ration, which the accumulating pus produces, of the organic layers, or laminae, in which it is deposited, or of the vital phenomena, by which, the new fluid is separated from the blood. The word is not employed to denote purulent collections within the na- tural cavities of the pleurae and peritoneum; such collection, being designated by the term “ Effusion,” will be considered here- after. Strictly speaking, therefore, an ab- scess may be defined, a collection of pus, in an accidental, or preternatural cavity. An abscess is never a primitive affection, but is itself, always the consequence, or the termina- tion of some inflammation, either manifest or obscure, which has preceded it, in some of the living tissues. Pus, like the substance of false membranes,bands of adhesion,and other patho- logical productions, has its origin in all cases,