BRONCHOTOMY. 516 The body is beyond the reach of the finger, and a probang would in all probability pass over it towards the back of the pharynx. The patient must die, if proper treatment be not instantly adopted. Is bronchotomy, then, to be performed ? If the surgeon hap- pen to have an elastic tube in his pocket, and he is able to remove the body from its situa- tion, he should, of course, introduce the tube through the nostril into the windpipe, and im- mediately commence inflating the lungs. It is the duty of every surgeon to acquire dex- terity in this manoeuvre by frequent practice on the dead subject. But suppose, what is often the case, the body cannot be stirred ; or what is still more likely, the surgeon has not a tube at hand, not a moment must be lost in performing bronch- otomy, and commencing artificial respiration. Directly the trachea is opened, the air will force up the epiglottis, and propel the foreign body into the mouth. If not too late, suc- cess will be almost certain, for the lungs are perfectly healthy, and the danger has been caused simply by a deprivation of air, from the closure of the glottis. The patient must be closely watched, for in all persons who have been nearly asphyxiated there is such debility, that relapses are com- mon; and this forms a strong objection against the use of elastic tubes, as much irri- tation is caused by passing and repassing them ; arid if left they will excite inflamma- tion. (6) A body may lodge in the pharynx, so as to cause only partial pressure on the epi- glottis, and symptoms are produced resembling those of the last case, but of course in a lesser degree ; the obstruction being in this partial, in the former complete. In this case, if we find the patient struggling to get rid of the substance, all that is necessary is to remove it, but if the case has gone on till he is in the state just described, when the body is on the epiglottis, bronchotomy must be performed, the lungs inflated, and the other treatment proper in cases of asphyxia vigorously em- ployed. Habicot operated successfully on a boy, who attempted to swallow nine gold pieces wrapped in paper. They lodged in the narrow part of the pharynx, could not be moved, and the boy was in danger of immedi- ate suffocation. (c) It is the opinion of Mr. Porter, that the stoppage of a foreign body in the oesopha- gus, though it occasions alarming symptoms, they are not such as indicate immediate danger of suffocation, and can never require bronchotomy. He says, “ there will be no difficulty of breathing beyond what must be occasioned by absolute pressure on the pos- terior membranous part of the trachea.”— “ When spasm is excited, it must be in con- sequence of some irritation applied to the larynx itself, and not extend to, or at a dis- tance from it." If this be the case, bronch- otomy could scarcely be thought of, for any substance small enough to pass the glottis could be forced into the stomach, unless it were of such a nature that the attempt would be likely to injure the oesophagus, or neigh- bouring parts, in which case cesophagotomy would be the best operation. And if we look merely to the mechanical effect of such a body on the trachea, bronchotomy, to be useful, must be performed below the situation of the body, that is, the trachea must be opened immediately above the sternum. The great danger, then, of the operation in this situation, and the fact that the first cause of the evil is not remedied in the least, are sufficient rea- sons why bronchotomy would be improper. But Dr. Stokes considers that spasm of the glottis may be caused by a foreign body lodg- ing in the oesophagus, on the ground of a case recorded by Mr. Kirby in the Dublin Hospi- tal Reports. He also states, that he has seen an instance where a piece of money was lodged in the oesophagus, not in the fauces or pharynx, when croupy breathing, and other laryngeal symptoms were the result. He also mentioned a case in his course of lectures at Park-street the session 1838-9 in which such symptoms were produced by a foreign body in the oesophagus, that his first impulse was to perform tracheotomy with a penknife. As it afterwards proved, the size of the body was such, that such effects could not have been produced by any mechanical pressure it occa- sioned ; and the spasmodic nature of the attack became still more evident when a per- fect intermission of the symptoms took place, and the child fell asleep. Mr. Cusack was sent for ; the child awoke ; another paroxysm came on ; he passed a bougie into the sto- mach, and all the symptoms then vanished. In a day or two the child passed some foreign body, I believe a fruit kernel, which it was known to have been playing with at the time. Now if it be allowed that a body in this situation may excite spasm of the glottis, it is possible a case might occur in which bronch- otomy was required. For instance, if suffo- cation were so imminent, that the delay of getting an oesophagus bougie, or, if one was at hand, some difficulty occurring in the re- moval of the body, rendered any other course dangerous; or, if the surgeon arrive very soon after apparent death. 2. Operating in a similar manner, that is, either by mechanical pressure on the glottis, or by producing spasm of its muscles polypi sometimes produce danger of suffocation, and the operation of bronchotomy is required to preserve the existence of the patient. This case very rarely happens, for it is seldom that a polypus in this situation can neither be ex- tracted, nor its size so lessened (by puncture, or excision of part of it,) as to remove the difficulty of respiration. But that it some- times occurs, appears from a statement in Mr. Hargrave’s work on operative surgery, that he assisted Mr. Gregory in performing tra- cheotomy at the Coombe Hospital on this account. 1 have since learned from Mr.