CORNEA. 831 differences which subsist among them, the anatomy of the part, both as regards structure and relations, should be well studied ; and this the more especially, when it is remembered that the cornea is a part through which, not- withstanding its delicacy and importance, in- cisions and punctures are often made in order to reach other parts of the eye which may be the immediate object of operation. ANATOMY OF THE COKNEA. The cornea is at once a part of the strong outer tunic of the eyeball and a refractive me- dium. Though the surfaces of the sclerotica and cornea are not strictly spherical, still it may be allowable to state, in a general way, that the former is a large segment of a large sphere, and the latter a small segment of a smaller sphere. The diameter of the larger sphere, or that formed by the sclerotica, is the same as that of the eyeball in general, i. e. about 4U of an inch. The radius of the con- vexity of the cornea is about jg of an inch. In a section of the eyeball, about | of the circum- ference are formed by the sclerotica, and the remaining's by the cornea. The cornea is framed, as it were, into the front of the sclerotica ; but in order to meet each other, the latter inclines towards the axis of the eyeball, and the former in an opposite direction ; hence the slight sinking in of the surface all round the cornea. In a section of the eyeball through the cornea and sclerotica, the edge of the former usually appears as if bevelled externally, and overlapped by the edge of the sclerotica, bevelled in the opposite direction. The edge of the cornea interiorly is, for the most part, also underlapped by a thin prolongation of the sclerotica. The transverse diameter of the cornea, mea- sured from the outside of the eye, is about $ of an inch, but the vertical diameter is somewhat less ; hence the outline of the cornea is rather oval than circular—oval, moreover, in the lite- ral acceptation, as one end, that towards the temple, is smaller than the other. This form of the cornea is principally owing to the greater encroachment of the sclerotica exter- nally on its upper and lower edges ; for when viewed internally, the circumference of the cornea is more nearly circular. The cornea is about ^ of an inch in thick- ness. In the adult, its surfaces are parallel; but in the child it approaches somewhat to the form of a meniscus, while in old age it has a tendency to become concavo-convex. We distinguish in the cornea three principal layers :—1st, the proper substance of the cor- nea in the middlo ; 2dly, the conjunctiva cor- neae in front; 3dly, the membrane of Descemet behind. The proper substance of the cornea may, by dissection, be divided into laminae ; but this is merely artificial, as is proved by subjecting the part to maceration, when it absorbs water, becomes thicker, and presents a spongy ap- pearance, but no trace of laminae, properly so called. Moreover, microscopical observation shows it to consist merely of a felt-work of fibres, between the meshes of which is con- tained a transparent humour. The cornea and sclerotica being both fibrous structures, present an interlacement at their junction, and the one is distinguishable from the other by the difference of transparency only. The proper substance of the cornea is not rendered opaque by the chemical re-agents, which coagulate and whiten the epidermic part of its conjunctival investment. Conjunctiva Corneas.—The existence of an extension of the conjunctiva over the cornea has been a question with anatomists. That a layer may be separated from the anterior sur- face of the cornea, quite different from its proper substance, and apparently a continua- tion of the conjunctiva covering the sclerotica, no one has doubted ; but this layer does not present exactly the same, or at least all the anatomical and chemical characters as the sclerotic conjunctiva. It is not vascular, the vessels seen ramifying on the surface of the cornea in some inflammations being situated underneath it; and it is coagulated and ren- dered opaque by boiling water or other re- agent applied to separate it1. The following demonstration, I believe, is the true way of establishing the existence of a conjunctiva corneae, and of preparing us to take advantage of the corroborative evidence afforded by morbid anatomy. The layer above noticed as separable from the anterior surface of the cornea, consists of a fine epithelium, and a substance which may be compared to the corpus mucosum of the tegumentary system. Both these structures exist on the sclerotic conjunc- tiva, though the second is not so thick as over the cornea. The blood-vessels already mentioned, as situated underneath the layer under consideration, and in immediate con- nexion with the proper substance of the cor- nea, are derived from those of the sclerotic conjunctiva. They form a stratum, which, together with its support of delicate cellular tissue, must be considered as the essential ele- ments of a chorion. We have thus a con- junctival layer of the cornea, but in a rudi- mentary state, or which, not admitting of being separated as a whole, in a distinct form like the sclerotic conjunctiva, may be viewed as composing, with the proper substance of the cornea, a fibro-mucous membrane. What is called the membrane of Descemet, or membrane of the anterior chamber of the aqueous humour, lines the whole posterior surface of the cornea. Though it is often said to be reflected upon the anterior surface of the iris, 1 The invalidity of the argument in favour of the extension of the conjunctiva over the cornea, founded on the fact, that in 5011)01113 a membrane is separated from over the eyes at the time of casting the skin, will be found fully exposed in the article “Lacrymal Or- gans,” in the Cyclopaedia of Anatomy and Physiology.