70 ECTROPIUM. palpebra, transfixing the skin, or injuring the periosteum. By this process, the skin and muscle covering the supra-orbital region and the angles of the orbit are separated from the subjacent parts, and rendered capable of un- dergoing a change in their position. The depth to which the scalpel will require to be carried, and particularly the extent in the transverse direction to which the integuments ought to be detached, must always be propor- tionate to the loss of the palpebral substance, and to the different degrees of mobility of the frontal coverings. The wounds are now to be united by the interrupted suture ; and first that left by the excision of the piece from the narrow strip of the tarsus is to be united by two sutures. The integuments of the supra-orbital region and angles of the orbit, which have been de- tached from the subjacent bone, are then to be pressed downwards by an assistant, so as to bring together the edges of the transverse wound of the lid. A stitch is first to be in- serted about the middle of the wound, and then, should the upper lip of the wound not much exceed the lower lip in length, lateral stitches may be immediately inserted. If, on the other hand, the upper lip of the wound exceed the lower lip to the extent of forming a fold, this must be removed by the scalpel or scissors, in order that the edges of the wound may be nicely adjusted. The number of stitches required cannot a priori be deter- mined. Coaptation of the wound having thus been effected, the eyeball is covered by integu- ments drawn partly from the supra-orbital region, but chiefly from the angles of the orbit; the eyebrow, however, will be some- what depressed, and will not describe so large and convex an arch as before. The operation upon the lower eyelid con- sists in first removing a triangular piece, as in the operation of Adams above described, and then detaching the integuments from the margin of the orbit by a process similar to that above described for increasing the per- pendicular diameter of the upper eyelid. The stitches are to be supported by inter- posing narrow strips of court plaister. The wounds are then to be covered with small pieces of lint, and graduated compresses, cor- responding in size to the circumference of the orbit, are to be placed upon the supra-orbital region, or cheek, according as the operation has been performed for the restoration of the upper or lower lid. Over the graduated com- presses long strips of adhesive plaister are to run, being applied in such a manner as to draw the integuments towards the eyelid, and to approximate them to the bones. When the upper eyelid has been operated upon, the ad- hesive plaisters may extend from the nape of the neck to the cheek. A roller may be ap- plied to assist the action of the plaisters, if it be deemed necessary. In the after treat- ment, nothing is to be omitted likely to pro- mote union by the first intention. Fig. 218. Fig. 218. Lagophthalmos with moderate eversion of the right upper eyelid produced by gangrenous erysipe- las. a, 6, line indicating the direction in which the first incision is made. Fig. 219. Fig. 219. The same eye, in which the eyelid is slit through and through transversely from near the one angle to near the other, and the strip at the tarsus brought down over the eye. a, b, hiatus through which the eyeball is seen; c, the piece to be cut out in order to shorten the lid transversely. Fig. 220. Fig. 220. The eyelid after the operation, a, b, and c, d, lines indicating the margin of the united wounds. The dots mark where the sutures were. The superciliary arch is seen somewhat lower and less convex than natural. Fig. 221. Fig. 221. E- version of the loiccr eyelid in a girl aged 18. o, b,—a, b, and a,c,—a, c. lines showing the in- cisions formed in the opera- tion.