832 CORNEA. it cannot, in the adult, be demonstrated farther than a little way upon its ciliary edge. When peeled from the proper substance of the cor- nea, the membrane under consideration curls together, and, if spread out and examined under the microscope, appears a homoge- neous transparent substance. Its free surface is invested with a very delicate epithelium, composed of nucleated corpuscles. Blood-vessels of the Cornea.—The three struc- tures of the cornea just described have a close vascular connexion with each other. Indivi- dually, the conjunctival layer has a direct vas- cular connexion with the conjunctiva, the proper substance with the sclerotica, and the membrane of Descemet with the iris. Around the margin of the cornea, the vessels of all these parts communicate. The ocular conjunctiva receives its blood partly from the lacrymal, partly from the upper and lower palpebral, and partly from the muscular arteries. The fine twigs of these vessels in the part of the conjunctiva covering the sclerotica, affect a reticular ar- rangement, partly by crossing each other sim- ply, and partly by inosculations. The latter is particularly the case around the cornea. It is only in the inflamed state that the ves- sels of the ocular conjunctiva can be well seen. In catarrhal ophthalmia, large superficial tor- tuous vessels are observed proceeding in a direction towards the cornea; a few of the same size are seen crossing these, especially at a distance from the cornea. Underneath the large vessels is a net-work of smaller ones, the branches of the larger. The blood- vessels having by subdivision become very fine, anastomose together by arches, and form, round the margin of the cornea, a vascular wreath or circle. From this, numerous twigs arise, and proceed, subdividing in their course, towards the centre of the cornea, into the proper substance of w hich they appear at last to penetrate. In eyes in a state of congestion, I have seen, with the naked eye, blood-vessels in the cornea ; but, in general, none are visible, ex- cept in inflammation, or in the early stage of development. It is sometimes only that the vessels of the conjunctiva corneae are success- ful^ injected. The minute vessels, seen radiating towards the margin of the cornea, and forming the pink-coloured zone on the anterior surface of the sclerotica in internal inflammation of the eye, are the anterior ciliary. They are derived from the ophthalmic, lacrymal, supra-orbital, and muscular. Opposite the insertion of the ciliary ligament, they pierce the sclerotica and gain the interior of the eye, where, in the sub- stance of the annulus albidus, they subdivide, and then enter the iris at its ciliary edge. Branches also penetrate between the proper substance of the cornea and the membrane of Descemet. The anterior ciliaries anastomose with the vessels of the conjunctiva, and, in penetrating the sclerotica, send twigs forward to the substance of the cornea. Within the eye the anterior ciliaries send a few twigs back into the choroid, to anastomose with the pos- terior ciliaries. Nerves of the Cornea.—The existence of nerves in the cornea, as first pointed out by Schlemm, of Berlin, who traced branches of the ciliary nerves to it, has been recently con- firmed by Bochdalek, of Prague, and Pap- penheim, of Breslaw. The cornea, however, does not possess much sensibility. In the state of health it may be freely touched, or cut, or punctured with little or no pain. The relations of the cornea to the aqueous humour and iris are points of great practical importance. Any perforation of the first in- volves the escape of the second; an occur- rence, however, not in itself of serious import, except in as far as it favours the prolapse of the third, which, according to its extent, ex- erts a more or less prejudicial influence over the optical arrangement of the whole organ. The motions of the iris are influenced by any irritation applied to the cornea. If the latter be touched with a stick of lunar caustic, for example, contraction of the pupil will be produced. MALFORMATIONS OF THE CORNEA. The cornea, though, for the sake of conve- nience in description, commonly said to be a segment of a sphere, is not so, strictly speaking; for it is slightly more prominent in the centre than a spherical surface would be. Moreover, its horizontal curvature has a somewhat greater radius than the vertical *. Marked deviation from this form of the cornea, gives rise to irregular refraction, and consequent disturbance of vision. The sim- plest and most common deviations consist in increased or diminished prominence of the cornea,—conditions, among others, of, in the former case, short-sightedness, and, in the lat- ter, of long-sightedness. Other changes in the form of the cornea are met with, the most remarkable of which are cylindrical cornea and conical cornea. Cylindrical Eye. Mr. Airy has written an account2 of one of his own eyes, which he ascertained to refract the rays to a nearer focus in a vertical than in a horizontal plane. This would take place, he remarks, if the cornea, instead of being a sur- face of revolution, in which the curvature of ail its sections through the axis must be equal, were of some other form, in which the curva- ture in a vertical plane is greater than in a horizontal. This is, in fact, as has been above mentioned, the natural form of the cornea, but in the instance of Mr. Airy’s eye, existing in an exaggerated degree so as to disturb vision. • 1 Gcrson, De Forma Corneae Oculi Htimani, &c.; Gottingir, 1810, p. 21. 2 Transactions of the Cambridge Philosophical So- ciety, quoted in the Encyclopaedia Metropolitans, arti- cle Light, p. 398, § 359.