688 CANCER. and consequent effusion of blood into the pe- ritonaeum ' ; but patients ordinarily sink gra- dually under the constitutional effects of the disease, though the peculiar cachexia is not often distinctly marked. The disease is more frequent in males than in females, as is the case with affections of the urinary system in general. M. Rayer has not met with it in children, and more commonly in persons of advanced age than in adults ; Dr. Bright, however, speaks of “ encephaloid dis- ease of the most remarkable and rapid growth occurring in children of the most tender age.” We can do little more in this place than warn the student against certain errors of diagnosis, which a careless estimate of the symptoms we have enumerated might entail. Albuminuria is common to a multitude of affections, and a careful examination of the constitution of the urine in other respects is required to enable us to refer it to any one of these in particular. If it be accompanied with discharge of encephaloid pulp with the urine, distinguishable by its physical characters, there can be little hesitation as to the cause of the albuminous impregnation ; and that it does not originate in the bladder may commonly be inferred from the absence of vesical sym- ptoms, and the freedom with which the con- tents of that viscus are evacuated. Unfortu- nately however for the facility of diagnosis, patients have been known to suffer from hy- pogastric pain and other symptoms of diseased bladder, in whom after death this viscus was ascertained to be perfectly sound, while the kidneys presented various lesions, the exist- ence of which had not, from the absence of local symptoms, been even suspected during life. For further particulars we must refer to the works of Dr. Bright, of M. Rayer, of M. Martin Solon2, and of Dr. Christison. In the writings of the two former authors, and in the chapter on examination of the kidneys by the ingenious and laborious Pro- fessor Piorry 3, may be found such directions, as the present state of the science admits of, for distinguishing the different kinds of renal tumours, and these from growths originating in other organs. Bibliography:—Tang staff, Med. Chir. Trans, vol. viii. p. 293. 1817. Wikon, Lvct. on Dis. of Uri- nary Organs, p. 284. 1821. Kovig. Pract. Ab- hand. uber die Krankhcit. dor Nieren, s. 224 & 246. Leipzig, 1826. Rayer, Maladies des Reins, Planclics, livrais. vii. Paris, 1837. Bright, Guy’s Hosp. Rep. no. viii. p. 208. April, 1839. (b.) Supra-Renal Capsules. The capsules are not unfrequently similarly affected when the kidney is cancerous; and the right one has been found to have become carcinomatous, apparently under the influence of heterologous growths in the liver. M. Rayer has never seen them affected except under these circum- stances4. 1 Bright, case X. 2 Pc 1’Alhuminurie. Paris, 1838. 3 Traite de Diagnostic, t. 2, p. 326. 1837. * L’Experience, Nov. 10, 1837. (c.)Calices, Pelvis, and Ureters. The ex- cretory apparatus of the kidney is occasionally the seat of cancerous matter. 1. A cancerous growth in the kidney may protrude into these passages in the manner already described. 2. Liquiform cancerous matter effused from the kidney may be found occupying the pelvis and part of the ureter in transitu to the blad- der. 3. Carcinomatous masses having no con- nexion with the renal disease may originate in the walls of the pelvis. In such cases the flow of urine secreted by the still healthy parts of the kidney is obstructed, and the walls of the pelvis present the columnar appearance so common in the bladder under analogous circumstances; a figure illustrating this has been given by M. Rayer *. The inferior ex- tremities of the ureters are often affected in cancerous diseases of the bladder, either pri- mary or consecutive to similar disorganization in the uterus ; but we have met with no exam- ple of original development of this product in them. (d.) Bladder. Carcinoma of the bladder is probably far from being so uncommon an af- fection, as the general statements of various writers w'ould lead us to believe. Many growths included by writers under the vague term “ fungus ” seem to have been in reality, as attentive study of their anatomical charac- ters and symptoms will show, either composed of purely encephaloid or scirrhous structure, or complicated with deposition of the former. Singularly enough, even the eminent M. Ci- viale, who inclines to the opinion here hazard- ed, contributes by his arrangement of vesical diseases to enforce the prevalent error; for he describes under the head “ funtjus” a case in which, in the language of the original ob- server, “ the bladder contained four or five carcinomatous tumours of various sizes” ; and another in which the morbid product was “ pulpy, whitish, and cerebriform 2.” Forma- tions which in the stomach, for example, would universally be recognised as cancerous, are from mere habit called fungi, when they exhi- bit themselves in the bladder. In these re- marks we refer to primary cancer : of the fre- quency of the disease as a sequence of uterine carcinoma there is no doubt ever expressed. Tuberiform or stratiform scirrhus are com- paratively rare ; but in a remarkable case de- tailed by Lallemand, “ all the membranes were transformed into a lardaccous scirrhous substance, two inches thick behind the pro- state, and extending two or three inches in every direction ”; and Mr. S. Cooper has described a distinct example of scirrhous tu- mour of this organ occurring in a subject, in whom the femur of one side and a rib were infiltrated with the same morbid matter. Sir B. Brodie has never met with a tumour “ wholly resembling scirrhus,” but has occa- sionally observed part of a morbid growth to 1 Plate xlvi. fig. 3. 2 Traite tie 1’Affection Calculcuse, pp. 322, 329. Paris, 1838.