EMPHYSEMA. 80 of emphysema in these cases manifestly de- pended upon the circumstances noted under the next head. 2. y. Under the head of organic diseases, advancing from without inwards, we include all perforating abscesses of the thoracic pa- rietes, of the liver, or other organs, the con- tents of which are evacuated by the bronchi. Morbid conditions of this species rarely in- duce general emphysema ; and this for these reasons: on the one hand, the pyogenic membrane is impermeable by gaseous fluids ; and, on the other, adhesions of the pleura, developed through the irritation of the ad- vancing pus, precede the penetration of the tissue of the lung. If, indeed, we are to judge from our own experience and recorded cases, even circumscribed emphysematous tumours very rarely follow the discharge of parietal or visceral abscesses into the bronchi; still, some few examples of such an occurrence are to be found in authors. Thus, Duncan has described a vast abscess following diffuse inflammation of the cellular substance of the left side of the thorax, which opened into the cavity of the pleura, and thence into the bronchi. The purulent cavity was divided into loculi, each filled with air, “ and bearing the same relation to common diffused emphysema, that phlegmon does to diffuse cellular inflammation.” The following case is related by Hennen as an example of “ secondary emphysema.” A sol- dier received a gun-shot wound in January 1815, the ball carrying away a piece of the left first rib. The wound discharged air for about five months, and then closed. While the patient was using the dumb bells in the month of November following, air was sud- denly forced into the soft parts about the neck; an abscess formed close to the site of the original wound; and, from this, air and purulent matter continued to be discharged for two months. The patient died hectic, in July, 1816. The bronchi were found filled with puriform mucus ; there was a cavity, not evidently seated in the lung itself, at the supero-posterior part of the left division of the thorax, which communicated by two small openings with an abscess in the upper part of the shoulder. No mention is made of tuber- cles in the lungs ; it is, therefore, probable that the case was one of perforating abscess. A very similar case is related by Ozanam. b. We now come to by far the most im- portant class of causes of emphysema in a practical point of view—namely, mechanical injuries of the lungs and walls of the chest. In order to make it clearly intelligible how these injuries produce effusion of air into the cellular membrane, it will be necessary for us to remind the reader of some points con- nected with the mechanism of respiration and the physical properties of the lungs *. In the healthy living subject, the costal and 1 It is of course not intended here to advert to all the forces employed in the function of respiration, hut merely to those necessary for the illustration of the subject. pulmonary pleurae are constantly in contact,— their apposition being equally accurate, but unaccompanied with the least reciprocal pres- sure, during inspiration and expiration : in other words, each lung exactly fills its re- spective side of the chest. This is proved : 1. byr the general laws of physics ; for were it not so, a vacuum must exist between the two laminae of the pleura, which is an absurdity. 2. by the occurrence of a grazing sound when incipient inflammation deprives the apposed pleural surfaces of their natural humid smooth- ness. 3. by the fact that the two surfaces may be seen in living animals to glide over each other during inspiration and expiration. On the con- trary, when we examine the lungs in the dead subject,—because to do this, it is necessary to make tolerably large openings in the chest,— each organ, provided its tissue be in the nor- mal state, is found to occupy a third or fourth part only of its division of the thorax. The volume of the lung in the first case may be termed relative; in the latter positive 1 .• the variation depends on two physical properties of the pulmonary tissue—extensibility and elasticity. During inspiration, the capacity of the chest is augmented ; the lungs, in this movement, closely follow the expanding walls of the thorax, as a result of,their extensibility. In the succeeding expiration the lung is active, contracting by virtue of its own elas- ticity ; and while its collapse is thus effected, the pressure of the atmosphere on their ex- ternal surface produces proportional recedence of the thoracic parietes. In inspiration, the pressure of the atmo- sphere acts powerfully on the internal surface of the air-tubes, or, as it may be termed, the mucous surface of the lung ; in expiration it does so feebly : but the external, or serous surface of the organ, is by the mechanism of respiration kept free from the pressure in question during both of these movements. The agency of atmospheric pressure, there- fore, constantly tends to increase the size of the lung ; that of its own elasticity to dimi- nish it: and hence, in the natural state, the weight of the atmosphere acts as an antago- nist force, of constant though varying power, to the elasticity of the lung ; and prevents the latter property from reducing the organ to its real or positive volume. But when the weight of the atmosphere is equalized (as by an opening in the sides of the chest) on the serous and mucous surfaces of the lung, the elasticity of its tissue, having no longer any opposing force to contend with, comes into full play, and reduces the organ to its real dimensions. Statements of the most contradictory kind prevail respecting the effects produced by opening both pleurae of animals. The subject will be fully considered elsewhere (see Lung, Proothesis of) ; but it may be well here to 1 Woillez, Rech. Prat, sur I’Inspection et la Men- suration de la Poitrine. 8vo. Paris, 1838. The writings of Mr. Carson also, of earlier date, throw much light on this subject.