828 CONTUSION. jured. Many of the cases of white swelling and caries of the vertebrae have no other origin. Comparatively, some organs are more ex- posed to lesions from this cause than others. The intestines, from their loose attachments and great lubricity, seldom suffer in this way, though it is stated that hernia has been some- times thus produced. The lungs, also, from the great mobility of the walls of the chest, are well protected from this species of injury: the liver, kidneys, spleen, distended bladder, and impregnated uterus, are very liable, and the brain and spinal marrow most of all, to experience the bad effects of Contre-coup.— See Concussion and Contusion. CONTUSION, (contusio, from the verb contundo, Lat.; contusion, meurtrissure, Fr.; Quetschung, Ger.) The crushing, or bruising of parts produced by the shock or sudden pressure of blunt, round, or broad surfaced bodies, without loss of substance, or apparent solution of continuity. When the bruise is accompanied by a breach of the skin, it is called a contused wound. Gun-shot wounds belong to this class. Contusions may be caused without the active intervention of ex- ternal agents; the different organs of the body may bruise and fret one another by falls, for instance, as explained under the article Counter-Coup. The extent and gravity of this sort of lesion vary exceedingly. Slight bruises are too tri- vial to be noticed, while in severe contusions, the parts may be crushed to a mere pap, or their vessels may be so torn as to give rise to extensive infiltrations or extravasations of blood, with consecutive suppuration—and even to gangrene and sloughing. It has often been a source of wonder to the uninformed, how a part of a limb broken up by contusion sloughs away, although the skin after the injury had appeared but slightly bruised. This has led to* the notion of wounds produced by the wind of a bullet. To the surgeon who knows that the fragility of parts is relative to their suppleness, extensibility, softness, thickness, and resistance, the occurrence of such injuries is perfectly intelligible. Skin resting on cel- lular tissue yields readily, or slips under the contunding force, and thus remains compara- tively uninjured ; while the denser soft parts, more especially those in contact with bone, receive its full impetus and are bruised, crushed, and broken up. The effects of con- tusion, (which is nothing more than the sud- den and injurious application of a mechanical force) vary also according to the directness, bulk, and power of the force, and the relaxa- tion or rigidity of the parts at the moment of being struck. A bruised part, or to speak more precisely, bruised integument, has lost its natural colour ; it is livid, blue or black, and this arises from the lacerated vessels having poured out their blood in greater or less quantity. If the in- jury is limited to this, it is nothing more than a simple ecchymosis, and scarcely requires any treatment. But when the injury is more violent, the contused parts, muscles, vessels, and nerves, (when not at once disorganized,) become the seat of phenomena, w'hich it is important to study. The first effect of con- tusion is pain, and difficulty or inability of motion in the part, followed by swelling, aris- ing from the extravasation of blood and lymph. When the parts struck are totally broken up, a sensation of cold, heaviness, and numbness, rather than of pain, is complained of. In the former case, the secondary symptoms, when unchecked by active treatment, are inflamma- tion and the formation of matter; in the latter, the mortification soon becomes manifest, and the patient succumbs, or the stricken mass is eliminated by the combined efforts of nature and art. Sometimes the gangrene is not the immediate result of the contusion, but is the consequence of the violence of the inflamma- tion to which it has given rise. The most fortunate termination is that in which the effused fluids are taken up by absorption, and the formation of matter is prevented. When the bruised parts abound in vascular and cel- lular tissues, and the vessels broken are nu- merous, the extravasation is often very consi- derable, amounting to several pounds of blood ; yet even the absorption of such large quantities may, under proper treatment, be effected. When the swelling and pain con- sequent upon severe contusions is great, the traumatic fever accompanying the inflamma- tion often runs high, and requires the promptest measures to subdue it. The swelling that takes place is not always equally diffused, being in certain situations checked and limited by the existence of apo- neurotic expansions. Where the cellular tis- sue is loose and abundant, the blood is infused by infiltration, the pain arising from the dis- tension is not considerable, and absorption takes place in general, sooner, or later. But on the other hand, where aponeuroses inter- fere, the blood is extravasated so as to form compact collections, the tension and pain arc great, and the probability of the less favour- able termination by suppuration much in- creased. Of the former, we have an example in the rapid and diffused swelling from a blow on the eye-lids ; of the latter, in the hard circumscribed bosses on the scalp. Some of these, however, are hard at the circumference, while they are so soft and depressible in the centre, as to induce a doubt of the existence of a depression in the skull itself. The central softness, however, merely depends on the pre- sence of effused blood. This sort of tumour is most frequent on the lateral regions of the cranium. In contusions of the thick deep-seated muscles, of the buttocks, loins, hips, or thighs, the strong aponeuroses prevent the immediate formation of an ecchymose, there is dull pain, and difficulty of motion ; the skin how'ever, at length puts on the yellowish, livid, or mottled appearance, but according to the arrangement