CORNEA. 815 1 Figure 10. ! Figure 11. Mr. Tyrrell says he hassucceeded, in several instances, in effecting a reduction of partial staphyloma, by the careful application of ni- trate of silver, or hydrate of potash, in sub- stance. He applies the escharotic first at the base of the projection, taking care not to in- jure the remaining sound cornea : the effect has been the separation of a small slough ; but previous to such separation, a deposit of fibrine has taken place beneath, by which the deeper part has become more solid and strengthened. After the part has recovered from one appli- cation, he makes a second close to, but not upon the same spot, and nearer to the sum- mit of the projection. Again and again he repeats this operation, acting upon the more prominent part, until a considerable or perfect reduction of the staphyloma has been accom- plished ; and this has enabled him, in a few cases, to form an artificial pupil, subsequently of much more utility to the patient. He prefers the hydrate of potash, unless the pro- jection be very small; for its use is followed by a much larger deposit of fibrine than re- sults from the nitrate of silver '. P.-ognosis and treatment of total Staphyloma. \Vhen an inflammation of the eye has run so disastrous a course, that the conditions for the formation of a total staphyloma are laid, any treatment which may be adopted can have for its object, not to save the eye as an organ of vision, but to prevent it from degenerating into a tumour, which not. only causes great de- formity, but is a source of considerable irrita- tion even to the opposite eye, so much so, that the patient seeks for its removal by ope- ration, sooner or later. Prophylactic treatment.—According to the account of the mode of formation of total sta- phyloma above given, it appears that the sup- ply of aqueous humour in the still-existing posterior chamber, is what keeps up the dis- tention of the iris, so that the pseudo-cornea which is moulded on its surface, presents the form of a round prominence on the front of the eye. If this be the case, the destruction of the source of the aqueous humour by break- ing in upon the integrity of the posterior chamber, is the means which offers to prevent the development of the staphylomatous pro- jection. The simplest plan of effecting this appearing to me to be the extraction of the lens, I put the operation into practice in the following* case :— A man, about twenty-two years old, came to me labouring under the effects of severe purulent ophthalmia of both eyes. In the right eye, the cornea being destroyed and the pupil closed, the iris protruded and was distended with aqueous humour. The left eye had also suffered very much ; there was penetrating ulcer, prolapsus iridis, and consequently con- siderable distortion and contraction of the 1 A practical work on the Diseases of the Eye, &c. vol. i. p. 273. London, 1840. pupil. Both eyes were still affected with the inflammation, and it was very doubtful whether the left eye could be prevented from getting worse, especially as it was evidently kept in a state of additional irritation from the pre- sence of the staphyloma in the right. By an incision with a Beer’s cataract-knife through the protruding and distended iris, the lens was extracted. Severe re-action followed ; less perhaps in consequence of the operation, than from the patient not being in a situation to take proper care of himself. The iris did not again become distended ; on the contrary, the eye shrunk, and irritation being thus removed, the left eye progressively recovered, as far as the organic changes it had already undergone al- lowed, and further than there had been reason to hope for, as sufficient vision was preserved to enable the patient to resume his employ- ment as a porter. In those cases in which the eye is destroyed by purulent ophthalmia, whether in adults or new-born infants, by gonorrhoeal ophthalmia, variolous ophthalmia, &c. and in which staphy- loma does not result, but the cicatrice which forms in the place of the cornea is flat and the eyeball becomes atrophic, I suspect the lens has escaped on the giving way of the cornea. A fully formed total spherical staphyloma is a source of great deformity : its removal therefore is often sought for in order that an artificial eye may be worn. But what princi- pally demands its removal, sooner or later, is the irritation which it keeps up, and which is apt to be communicated to the opposite eye. Operation for the removal of fully-formed total spherical Staphyloma.— Compression, liga- ture, seton, caustics, incision, variously modi- fied or combined, have been recommended as a means of repressing staphyloma ; but it is now agreed that the only proceeding to be depended on for the removal of the tumour, is its abscission. The excision of a piece of the size of a lentil, one of the methods recom- mended by Celsus, was adopted by Scarpa, under the impression that it was less liable to be followed by severe reaction than the ab- scission of the whole. It has, however been found that the latter is not usually followed by any dangerous accident, while the former does not always effect the desired object. The patient is seated on a chair opposite a window, and leans his head on the breast of an assistant w'ho stands behind, ar.d who also sup- ports the chin with the palm of one hand, whilst with the fingers he depresses the lower eyelid. With the fingers of the other hand he raises the upper eyelid. The surgeon then, having command of the eyeball by means of a large hook1 * passed through the staphyloma, or by means of a ligature previously intro- duced with a curved needle, proceeds in the following manner :— With the staphyloma-knife5 its edge being directed upwards, he transfixes the tumour at its base, from th6 temporal to the nasal side,