ARM, BEND OF. 362 abscess, which was immediately followed by a gush of venous blood. The external jugu- lar vein was injured : an accident which might perhaps have been avoided by the simple pre- caution indicated above. A thin superficial cellular fascia lies imme- diately beneath the layer of adipose sub- stance, covering the veins and subcutaneous nerves, and united to the common aponeurotic sheath by fine cellular tissue. This superficial fascia is not always very distinct ; it is seldom strong : nevertheless it merits notice, as will be shown when the veins are described. The veins in front of this region are very irregular, and seldom represented alike in anatomical drawings. Their names even have often been changed. The principal varieties in these vessels may be classed in the follow- ing order :—1st, The veins in both arms are rarely alike. 2ndly, They may be more nu- merous than usual, and then the larger trunks will be found smaller than natural; or they may be diminished 1 in number, but larger than ordinarily. 3rdly, They may be regu- lar as to number, but changed in their posi- tions. 4thly, Or they may be irregular in number, in position, and in size. The cuta- neous and subcutaneous veins of the arm (as well as of every other part of the body) can be beautifully injected by the medium of the aorta, or brachial artery. I lately saw, at Lcipsic, a splendid preparation made in this way, and under the direction of that distin- guished anatomist, Prof. E. H. Weber. Fig. 108. 0 P This sketch represents several common varieties in the number and position of the veins and musculo-cu- laneous nerves. The median basilic vein will be seen to follow nearly the course of the brachial artery, a, The biceps muscle of the right arm. b, The biceps tendon giving off the “fascia tendinosa," c c c, which has been opened to shoiv the exact situation of the brachial artery s, and median nerve r. d, Supinator radii longus. e, Brachialis intemus muscle, which sends off an aponeurotic expansion in this situation, f The tuberosity of the inner condyle of the os humeri, g, The common aponeurotic sheath of the fore-arm which, in this point, covers the pronator. It, Teres 1 Sec Fig. 1. muscle, h, The triceps muscle, i. The basilic, or “ axillaria externa" vein, j, The cubital or ulnar vein. k, The median basilic vein, or mediana communis. l, The point wlwre the “ vena communicans" joins the radial vein m, and the median basilic, and cephalic vein, which, in this arm, was entirely wanting, n, The external musculo-cutaneous nerve, which is al- most constantly regular in its situation, o. Outer branch of the internal musculo-cutaneous nerve, p, and q, Inner branches of the same nerve passing before and behind the veins, r. Median nerve, s. Brachial artery. Great confusion in the names of these veins has been caused by modern writers changing the old nomenclature, and sometimes by ap- plying the same name to very different veins. Dr. Jones Quain has given a confused de- scription of these vessels in his manual of Anatomy (p. 579). He dislikes the terms “ basilic and cephalic,” “ which serve no useful purpose." It is somewhat singular that this anatomist should have chosen an irregular distribution of these veins in his collection of drawings J, which a student might in vain en- deavour to understand by referring to the above-named manual. As the student may frequently be perplexed when he refers to different writers for a com- plete knowledge of these veins, we shall briefly explain these difficulties. The nomen- clature of these vessels was formerly very simple. Thus that able anatomist, Camper, has given an excellent description of the su- perficial veins and nerves of the arm, and has enriched his work with two beautiful line-en- gravings, which represent these parts in their most ordinary form. Camper employed the most common names in use : thus ; he calls the cephalic vein the “ vena humeraria, vcl cephaliea,” which he describes as arising from the fore-part of the wrist, then running along the front of the fore arm, and uniting at the bend of the elbow to the “ mediana simplex,” now called the median basilic. Here it also receives one or more external or radial branches, and then proceeds up the arm to the clavicle. Therefore this humeral or ce- phalic vein corresponds to the “ median vein,” to the “ common median vein,” to the “ ante- rior radial vein,” to the median cephalic and cephalic veins of recent writers !. The radial veins are considered merely as branches of the cephalic vein. The “ basilic, or axillaria externa,” is formed by the anterior and posterior cubital veins, which, at the bend of the arm, unite together and form a short and large trunk called the 1 Sec plate 36 of a Series of Anatomical Plates, &c. Fasciculus 42. London, 1837. s Refer to “ Heads of Regional Anatomy,” by A. J. Lizars, p. 112; Bourgery's Traite d’Anatomic, plates 37, 61, 63. See also Meckel, Bichat, Boyer, V eber, Harrison, Blandin, Velpeau, Malgaigne, &c. &c. The ancients supposed the cephalic vein went to the head, hence its name. The basilic vein of the right arm was anciently called the hepatic vein; while the basilic of the left arm was termed the splenic vein, from an erroneous notion of a great sympathy between them and the liver and spleen. Hence, also, the pre- ference they gave in bleeding to the one or to the other vein, according to the organ diseased.