27 EAR, AND HEARING, DISEASES OF. rounding atmosphere, but how much after the ordinary degree of compression ? I have found it at the most to be three degrees, and a considerable part of this decrease was owing to the evaporation of the watery particles thrown out upon the ball of the thermometer along with the air from the air-press. More- over I have found that the stream of the air- press, after traversing the flexible tube and catheter, both being at the temperature of the surrounding air, made to play on the ball of the thermometer, had the etfect rather of raising the mercury than of bringing it down. To the patient, the stream of air does pro- duce the feeling of coldness, for the same reason that any stream of wind does, but it is never complained of. After the catheter has been introduced into the Eustachian tube, and fixed by means of the frontlet, if the air-douche is to be employed for the investigation of the state of the middle car, the patient is to be seated close to the air-press and with the side to be operated on next it. By a dozen strokes of the pis- ton, sufficient air having been accumulated, the surgeon introduces the nozzle of the flexible tube of the air-press into the funnel- shaped end of the catheter, but far from push- ing it home, leaves it so loosely placed that air may freely regurgitate ; in this position it is to be held by an assistant, or even the pa- tient himself. Things being thus disposed, the surgeon applies his ear close to that of the patient, opens cautiously and slowly the stop- cock of the machine, and listens to the sound produced. When the Eustachian tube and cavity of the tympanum are perfectly free, a blowing and rustling sound is heard in the tympanum. All deviations from this sound, the peculiarities of which can be appreciated only by repeated observation, are morbid. But the sounds are not the only thing which determines conclusions regarding the state of the ear, the immediate effect of the air-douche on the hearing is a great point to be attended to. The hearing may remain unchanged, a temporary increase of deafness may take place, or the hearing may be evidently im- proved. The surgeon knows by the sounds pro- duced by the air-douche how to regulate the issue of the air from the air-press. If, in con- sequence of obstruction of the Eustachian tube, the air does not enter the tympanum, a distant rushing sound is heard from the re- gurgitation of the air where the catheter is inserted into the mouth of the Eustachian tube into the throat; regurgitation at the same time freely taking place where the noz- zle of the tube of the air-press is inserted into the catheter. When there is mucus in the tympanum, a gurgling is produced by the en- trance of the air, and this sound is somewhat modified when the air makes its way into the mastoid cells, being especially heard as if nearer. It is not enough in applying the air-douche that the beak of the catheter be simply en- gaged in the Eustachian tube ; the axis of its orifice ought to be as near as possible in that of the passage ; and to secure this position, repeated trials, by blowing with the mouth, or by a very gentle stream from the air-press, must be made, and the catheter shifted ac- cordingly, by rotating it on its axis, so as to turn the beak more or less in a direction up- wards and outwards, by pushing it a little further in or drawing it somewhat out. After each shifting, it is to be again steadily fixed by the vice of the frontlet. Without the ca- theter being steadily fixed by the frontlet, the former cannot keep in a proper position, and the subsequent steps of the operation conse- quently cannot be performed with precision and effect, nor without unnecessary pain. If the catheter does not lie properly, the stream of air often does not enter the tympa- num at all; in which case an obstruction of the Eustachian tube may be suspected where none really exists. I do not think it necessary to say anything of sounding the Eustachian tube, as it is a painful operation, and one which can lead to no good result, either in giving information, or in permanently removing stricture, even supposing stricture of the Eustachian tube to be in any case the sole cause of deafness, which I very much doubt. (d ) Injuries and diseases of the middle ear. Foreign body in the Eustachian tube.—Pro- fessor Fleischmann1 relates that having had an opportunity to open the body of a man who died of consumption, and who, he remembered, had consulted him some years before on account of a constant noise in the left ear, and a peculiar sensation in the back of the throat of the same side, he examined the throat very carefully, and found an awn of an ear of barley in the Eustachian tube. It projected somewhat from the guttural orifice, and extended up the tube as far as the osseous part of it. Different parts of the membrane lining the Eustachian tube, the cavity of the tympanum, and the mastoid cells may be separately or simultaneously the seat of inflammation—ca- tarrhal, catarrho-rheumatic, or purulent. The consequences are, increased secretion and ac- cumulation of mucus ; considerable thicken- ing, swelling, and sarcomatous and polypous degeneration of the membrane, the formation of pus, false membranes from the effusion of coagulable lymph, or, lastly, caries of the bony walls, and more or less extensive destruction of the membrana tympani, with partial or complete loss of the ossicles. Sometimes tu- berculous matter has been found in the cavi- ties of the tympanum and mastoid cells. Catarrhal or blenorrliceal inflammation of the middle ear, with muculent obstruction. (In- 1 Ilufeland’s und Osann's Journal dcr nractischen Heilkundc. St. vj. Junius, 1835, p. 25—28.