AMPUTATION. 121 evidence, both of the reluctance that exists in some minds, from an adherence to customary practice, to adopt what is new; and of the dis- position in others, from the desire of change, to undervalue what is old, still offers, as to ultimate results, an instance of the positive though slow advance of science. The opera- tion has ever been influenced by the general state of surgical knowledge, and has varied ac- cordingly ; but nothing contributed so much and so directly to its improvement as the dis- covery of the means of preventing haemor- rhage. As may be observed with regard to almost every branch of art and science, this part of chirurgical therapeutics has had some intervals of stagnation, and even of retrogression. Upon the whole, however, its periods of change have been those of amendment ; and, although sometimes stopped or misdirected in its course, it has at last attained that degree of perfec- tion from which, we trust, it will never recede, and beyond which, it may be difficult to make it advance. Classification.—Amputations differ from each other in many respects. It will be found they may be best arranged according to the method of performing them, and according to the limb and part of the limb at which they are performed. There is more than one method of amputating applicable to every or almost every part. Each plan which is of such gene- ral application that it can be applied to any part, may be properly termed a general method. For example, the amputation of any part may be performed so as to leave a wound with one or more elongated portions of soft parts, called flaps, for covering and healing over the bone which remains ; and when so performed, it is termed the flap amputation. This being ap- plicable to every, or almost every limb and part of a limb, constitutes a general method. The same may be said of the plan in which the soft parts are left of the same length all round the limb, and which is called the circu- lar method ; and the same of that which, from the form of the wound, is termed the oval method. As each limb or part of a limb may be re- moved by more than one method, there are as many individual amputations as distinct parts to be amputated, multiplied by the num- ber of methods, and modifications of methods, or processes applicable to them. We understand, then, by a general method a mode of amputation applicable to every, or almost every part; and by individual amputa- tion. the amputation of some distinct part, by each or any method or process considered separately. There are certain considerations which apply to all methods of amputating, and to all amputations, taken in the aggregate ; and which, to avoid repetition in the treating of each of them, and in order that the reader may have the whole subject clearly before him, we shall present first and together : while whatever applies solely-or more particularly to each general method, or single, individual am- putation, taken separately, will be noticed un- der the head of that general method, and of that special amputation. As the first considerations apply generally to all amputations wherever, or by whatever plan performed, to general methods and to individual amputations, they ought to precede the description of both. The different gene- ral methods of amputating as applicable to any part, come naturally, and will be treated of next in order; and, lastly, we shall treat of every individual amputation of every part, by each and every method and modification of method which has been devised. CASES IN WHICH AMPUTATION OUGHT TO BE PERFORMED. In treating of amputation, most authors en- deavour to point out the diseases for which it should be performed. But it is evident that a general statement, made with this intention, can be but an enumeration, of little use to the practitioner, and that he ought to look upon it as scarcely more than a catalogue or table, showing at once the number of disorders, or species of cases, for which the operation is performed. Otherwise considered, or with any other importance attached to it, it might mislead the yonng surgeon. The proper place for pointing out each case requiring am- putation, is that, where all the details concern- ing ^it can be most completely and minutely entered into ; and that place clearly will be under the head of each disease, when we enter into the description of the treatment suited to each or any of its particular cases consi- dered separately. What we ought, and shall more particularly attempt to do, besides mak- ing the above enumeration, is to lay down general rules to assist the surgeon in solving the difficult problem—for what cases ought amputation to be had recourse to ? In order to come to as just a decision as possible, as to whether or not amputation should be per- formed, in any case under consideration, the surgeon must always proceed in the same manner. The great object is to calculate the consequences that must ensue, both with and without the operation : in order that of the two courses—its adoption, or rejection—that may be pursued which offers the greater num- ber of chances in favour of the patient’s life and health. We have to calculate on the one hand, the consequences of the disease treated by amputation ; and on the other, its conse- quences treated without amputation. We have to compare the consequences on both sides, and to determine for the alternative which leaves the larger residue of probable good. To solve the problem, all the data must be taken which the answers to the following in- terrogatories will furnish. What are the exact parts, and to what precise extent is each in- jured or diseased, taken anatomically, part by part ? What are the usual effects, local and general, proximate and remote, of the lesion