AMENORRHCEA. l i;j This spot should be distinguished by a black flag for its protection, as pointing out a neutral ground consecrated to the general cause of humanity; this signal should invariably be re- spected by besieged and besiegers, and in no instance should works be carried on under its protection, or ammunition secured. The flag should be struck the moment the ground be- comes a military post. All storming or esca- lading parties will be followed by a sufficient number of surgeons and bearers, with torches and lanthorns to be lighted when required. When the besieged fortress is carried by storm, the wounded in the breach may be hoisted on the ramparts in cots slung from beams projecting from the parapet. This will be found more expeditious and less distressing than carrying them back over the counter- scarp, to go round by the town gates. In a besieged town.—Here the spring-wag- gons and cars are useless, and their horses only increase the consumption of forage. The wounded should be carried away by the hos- pital corps in carriages belonging to the town, or on bearers; the sick and wounded should be accommodated in public buildings, on which a black flag is to be planted, in a situation easily discerned by the besiegers during the day, and reflecting lanthorns will designate it in the night. During a bombardment, the wounded had better be secured in bomb-proof casemates, and medical officers should be on permanent duty both day and night, and de- tachments of the hospital corps stationed at every point of attack, whether in the out- works, or in the fortifications of the body of the place. When a breach is rendered practicable, the surgeons of the garrison, with the hospital corps, should assemble in the vicinity, in some safe building. Should the storming party be repulsed, the wounded left in the ditch and on the breach should be removed over the ruins by means of planks fixed on a gang- board, and laid down as a platform ; a truck moving upon four low wheels, in grooves, and lowered by a windlass, will be found most convenient for this humane purpose. In night-attacks it would be desirable that, by a mutual agreement, signals by rockets, for a short cessation of hostilities should be thrown up, that the wounded might be collected and borne away : their situation after an assault is truly deplorable,—heaped up with the dead, amongst ruins, most probably wet through from wading across the fosse, and generally very severely wounded; the delay of a few minutes is to these unfortunate men of vital importance. It is needless to add, that the materiel of the ambulance or hospital corps must, vary in description according to the features of the theatre of war. In mountain- ous tracts, our waggons and cars will be use- less, but wherever field-pieces and the pontoon tram can move, our wheeled transports can follow. The same observation applies to our medical stores, which must be more or less abundant, VOL. I. according to the state of the country. In populous and fertile provinces, local supplies may be provided, but in an abandoned and impoverished land it must be obvious that all the wants of the wounded that are not pre- viously foreseen, will be sadly felt in the hour of need ; and while we should not encumber ourselves with useless medicines, we should not dread even a superabundance in our sur- gical means of relief. Pig. 8. Model of a light spring-waggon for bearing the badly wounded off the fielil. T/tose slightly wounded are placed on seats each side of the waggon. (J. G. Millingen.) AMENORRHCEA (from a, priv., pi)v, a month, and pew, I flow,) has usually been con- sidered under two heads, emansio or retention, and suppression of the menstrual secretion ; the former implying its non-appearance at the usual period of life, the latter, its interruption after it has become established. In viewing the important function of men- struation physiologically, we are struck with many of its phenomena at once peculiar and interesting, and among others, those which may be considered concomitants, or rather precursors of its first appearance. From an early period in the history of medicine up to the present time, writers on physiology have observed, that in warm countries, as in some parts of Asia and America, puberty in the female occurs as early as the ninth or tenth year, whilst in the colder regions, as in Lap- land, it may be retarded to the eighteenth or twentieth year. In this temperate climate the uterus begins to perform the function of mt nstruation when the female arrives at the age of fourteen or fifteen. It must not be overlooked, that the first irruption of the se- cretion does not depend on climate alone, but on a perfect development of the generative system. The uterus and ovaries must have assumed the characteristics of the adult, and a correspondent change must have taken place in other and distant organs. In a pathologi- cal or curative point of view this circum- stance is of no ordinary moment. In investigating the pathology of amenor- rhoea, there are two conditions of the whole economy which demand careful consideration ; one in which the system has morbidly arisen above the natural standard, the other, where it has sunk below it, and when with an appear- ance of general debility, there is often to be found local congestion, producing a torpidity