ANASTOMOSIS. to relieve the skin from the excessive disten- sion, than to allow it to crack extensively, or to become stripped over the parts on which the patient lies. When the patient’s strength is much reduced, the skin is considerably dis- tended, and the distress of breathing is very great; under such circumstances, punctures ought to be made to give issue to the fluid, without regard to the local inflammation and sloughing which may arise in consequence. Bibliography. — Noesler, Do Leucophlegmatia. Altdorf, 1627. Walker, Pc Hydrope intercute, sivc Anasarca. 1688. Her yen, De Hydrope Anasarca. 171b. Cartheuser, Dc Leucophlegmatia. 1760. Stork, Me- dical Works, by Carmichael Smyth. London, 1788. Maclusty, I)e Hydrope Anasarca. Edinb. 1795. Vieus- seiw, Surf Anasarque a la suite de la FievreScarlatine, Rccueil Periodique de la Soc. de Med. Burdel, Sur 1’Anasarque, ou Hydropisie du tissu cellulaire. Paris, 1810. Brcschet, Sur l’Hydropisie active du tissu cellu- laire. Paris, 1812. Samson, Sur 1’Anasarque. Paris, 1813. Rkhard, Sur l’Anasarque, suite de la Scarlatine. Paris, 1825. Bright, Report of Medical Cases, sect. i. On the appearances observable in diseases terminating in Dropsical Effusion. London, 1827. Andral, Clinique Medicale. Genest, ltecherches sur l’Anasarque et son traitement. Gaz. Med. de Paris, 1833. Dance, art. Anasarque; Diet.de Med. Paris. BiUard,del’QEdeme, ou Endurisscment du tissu cellulaire des nouveau- lies ; et Traite des Maladies des Enfans. Paris, 1828 ; an excellent work. Bnuilland, art. Anasarque. Diet, de Med. et Chir. Prat. Paris, 1829. (Win. B. Costello.') ANASTOMOSIS, (from ava, through, and OTopa, a mouth,) dvaarogwan;, Gr.; Verbin- dung, Ger.; anastomose, abouchement, Fr. ; inosculation, Eng. Anastomosis, in an ana- tomical sense, means the communication that obtains between different parts of any system of vessels, nerves, &c., and is found in each of the ramifying systems,—in the arteries, in the veins, in the lymphatics, and in the nerves. The anastomoses of the arterial system which are to be here considered, serve three distinct purposes ; they prevent a defective supply of blood; they diminish the velocity in the current of the blood ; and they dimi- nish the weight of the column of blood. To fulfil these different offices, there are different modes by which arteries anastomose. Two trunks of equal diameter may unite to form a single trunk, as, for instance, the two vertebrals, to form the basilar artery ; or two trunks may communicate at a particular part by a transverse branch, such as the two ante- rior cerebral arteries, by the arteria transver- salis: or two trunks may join and form an arch, as in the instances of the mesenteric ar- teries, and coronary arteries of the heart ; in those of the stomach, lips, eyelids, and iris ; and in the palmar arch. In consequence of these and other inoscu- lations, the due supply of blood to different organs can never be interrupted, though its flow in particular vessels may be obstructed by a variety of causes, particularly by alterations of posture, and by muscular contractions ; and hence it is justly remarked, that the arte- rial system ought not to be compared to a tree, the branches of which are isolated ; but 189 to a tree, all the branches of which communi- cate with one another. Fig. 52. The anastomoses of the arteries of the iris, represented in fig. 52, show how that organ is supplied with a constant stream of blood during its unceasing movements. The vessel which is seen passing around the cir- cumference of the iris receives its blood from two channels, so that the circulation can never be interrupted. From this trunk the different branches come off at right angles to supply the iris, pass forwards to the pupillar opening, where they inosculate with each other, forming a sort of festoon, in such man- ner that the circulation of the blood shall go on uninterruptedly, whether the pupil be in a state of contraction or dilatation. Fig. 53. The anastomosis of the palmar arteries represented in fig. 53, shows how all the parts of the hand and fingers continue to be supplied with an uniform quantity of blood while grasping bodies, as well as during all their varied positions. There is a form of anastomosis,—a rete mirabile, in the arteries of particular organs in different tribes of animals, which is intended in some cases to secure an equal supply of