330 ANTIMONY. and present themselves, for the first time, with large eschars, accompanied by an abund- ant and extremely ill-conditioned suppuration. In such cases, great benefit will be derived in correcting the fetid state of the ulcer, from the use of the chloride of lime, either in poultice or lotion. In situations where the treatment by inci- sions might be objected to, or where the an- thrax shows a disposition to spread or become complicated with a diffused inflammation of the cellular tissue, blisters have been employed with a view to check the progress of the dis- ease, mitigate the excessive pain, or maturate the pus in the tumour. When the inflamma- tion shows a tendency to spread, it will be often arrested in this way, but in the cir- cumscribed anthrax, the value of blisters is very doubtful. Dr. Physick of Philadelphia, however, states that in the early stages, they abate the burning pain for many hours, and may be repeated for this purpose ; but he thinks they rather accelerate than retard mor- tification in the tumour, when applied in the second stage. Neither in this country nor in America is the actual or potential cautery much resorted to in the cure of anthrax. Dr. Physick re- commends the application of the potassa fusa in preference to the actual cautery in the second stage of anthrax ; but though they calm the burning pain after a few hours, they are both inferior in value to that of the treat- ment by incisions, and should never be prefer- red to it, unless the pusillanimity of the patient, or some other weighty reason required it. Constitutional treatment.—When the disease is observed to set in with symptoms of de- rangement in the digestive apparatus, aperients and tonics are exhibited. Many French sur- geons combat the local and general symptoms, at the commencement of the attack, by total abstinence from food, and the administration of diluents and diaphoretics, with general as well as local bleeding in some cases. M. Perez relates some cases of anthrax successfully treated in this way. But it should be borne in mind, that in this class of patients there is oftener a want than an excess of power, and that the disease is more frequent amongst the aged and debilitated, than amongst the young and vigorous. In this country, general bleed- ing in anthrax, except in a case where the subject is young, plethoric, and robust, is not employed ; local bleeding by leeches or cupping is often had recourse to at first; this is followed by poultices, till the incisions are made. In the second and third period, the strength of the patient is supported by a generous diet, with wine, porter, &c. Bark, camphor, tether, ammonia, mineral acids, &c., are administered internally, according to the necessities of the case. Opium is exhibited at every stage, more particularly in the first, to allay pain and procure sleep. Bibliography. —Ant. Tosi, De Anthrace, sen Carbunculo Tractatus. Venetiis, 4to. 1576. Borde- nave, De Anthrace. Parishs, 1765. Pouteau, CEuvrcs Posthuines, lom. ii. Paris, 1763. Pearson, Principles of Surgery, pt. i. London, 1788. Encyclopedic Me- thodique, Partie Chirurg. Art. Anthrax. Broinfield, Ohirurgical Cases and Observations, vol. i. London, 1773. Lassus, Pathologie Chirurgicale, tom. i. Pans, 1806. Mouton, Anthrax, Art. du Dictionnaire dos Sciences Medicales. Paris, 1812. Codet, These sur P Anthrax. Paris, 1813. Vergnies, Considerations sur l’Anthrax non contagieux. Paris, 1815. Richter Anfansgr. der Wundarzn. b. 1. Gilson, Institutes of Surgery. Philadelphia, 1824. Boyer, Maladies Chi- rurgicales, tom. ii. Paris, 1825—31. Roche et Sanson, Nouveaux Elemens de Pathologie. Paris, 1828. San- son, Art. Anthrax, Diet, de Med. et de Chirurg. Prat. Paris, 1829. Marjolin, Art. Anthrax, Diet, de Medecine. Paris, 1833. Dupuytren, Lccous Orales de Clinique Chirurgicale. Paris, 1835. Coates, Art. Anthrax, American Cyclopiedia of Practical Medicine and Surgery. Philadelphia, 1835. S. Cooper, First Lines, and Surgical Diet., Art. Anthrax. ( Wm. B. Costello.') ANTIMONY, (from dvr], ‘against,’ and the French word moine, ‘ monk;’) a derivation referring to the imprudence of the monks, who, when the substance was first used in medicine, took it in dangerously large doses. Antimonium, stibium, Lat.; antimoine, French ; Spiessglas, Ger.; regulus of antimony, Eng. It exists in nature either in a native or combined state. The antimony of commerce is chiefly derived from the sulplniret. The medicinal preparations of this metal are nu- merous, and are employed both internally and externally. The tartarized antimony, or more strictly speaking, the tartrate of antimony and potass, in conjunction with lard, is frequently em- ployed as a counter-irritant. The practice seems to have originated about the year 1773, with Dr. Bradley (Memoirs of the London Medical Society). Dr. Jenner also advoca- ted the use of tartar emetic ointment. He recommended the addition of a small portion of white sugar to prevent it from becoming rancid. It may fail, however, altogether as a counter-irritant if care be not taken to reduce the tartar emetic to an impalpable powder previously to its being incorporated with the lard. Spermaceti may be substituted for the lard. The usual proportions are 3j of the antimonial, to Jj or ^iss of the unctuous sub- stance. A small portion of this ointment may be rubbed in night and morning. It may also be introduced by sprinkling the pow- der on fresh-made adhesive plaister, and apply- ing it to the skin. The ctfect produced on the integument varies in degree from simple redness to vesication, and a more or less plen- tiful eruption of pustules, according to the thinness and susceptibility of the skin, and the duration and strength of the application. The pustules thus raised have some resemblance to those of small-pox, and often spread into a broad and deep ulcer. The ointment is used in most cases where greater permanency of effect is aimed at than can be obtained by ve- sication with cantharides. A solution of the salt may also be introduced endermically, the cuticle being previously removed by a blister. The external use of antimony is chiefly had recourse to in chronic inflammation of the joints, in deep-seated rheumatic pains, in