100 EMPYEMA. empyema, ami that such displacement is always preceded, as by a necessary condition, by loss of tone or true paralysis of the fibres of these muscles, a change resulting from in- flammation of the serous membrane adjoining them. We do not contest the existence of such loss of tone in some cases, but we can- not coincide with this eminent observer in believing it a sine qua non of intercostal pro- trusion. We have in fact, both before and since our acquaintance with Dr. Stokes’ ob- servations, satisfied ourselves of the existence of intercostal bulging in pulmonary emphy- sema, an affection in which the serous inflam- mation and muscular paralysis, alleged to be essential to the development of such bulging, have never existed. We are aware Dr. Stokes denies that intercostal bulging arises in the malady alluded to; but the experience of MM. Louis, Jackson, Woillez, Fournet, Barth, and others, accords with our own The phenomenon of audible fluctuation, originally noticed by Hippocrates (Hippocra- tic succussion), and by him presumed to be a sign of simple empyema, is now known to be producible only in cases of pneumo-hydro- thorax. While the changes described occur on the diseased side, the respiratory murmurs of the sound lung acquire the puerile or supplement- ary character, and, according to Laennec, may occasionally be transmitted to and be audible on the affected side. It is important to observe, that although in many cases the stages of pleuritic inflamma- tion are distinctly traceable, they are not so always, either because they succeed each other with extreme rapidity, or because abun- dant effusion arises coevally with the first local symptoms of the disease. From the frequency of the latter description of cases, sudden and general dulness of sound coupled with absence of respiratory murmurs and rhonchi constitute in general terms the most useful signs of pleurisy. The physical signs belonging to this, the stage of effusion, whether acute or chronic, are those of empyema, and consequently are those to be ascertained by the surgeon re- quired to operate for its removal. But before we describe the symptoms, diagnosis, and treat- ment of the affection, it will be well to con- sider the subsequent progress of things (when the malady is not effectually combated), in the changes consequent upon absorption. This is the more necessary, as under favour- ing circumstances, similar effects follow arti- ficial evacuation of the fluid. IV. Period of Absorption, a. Without con- traction.—During the absorption of pleuritic effusion the physical signs disappear in the inverse order of their appearance. The walls of the chest gradually lose their prominence, the detruded viscera are restored to their places, and no evidence remains in the eon- 1 Vide British and Foreign Medical Review, vol. vi. ]>. 33 ; vol. vii. p. 307; vol. ix. p. 321. formation of the thorax, that pleurisy has ever existed : a few days sometimes suffice for the replacement of the detruded parts. The sound on percussion becomes less dull, the resistance felt by the finger decreases ; pho- nic fremitus is re-established; peripheric fluctuation ceases to be perceptible ; the mo- tions of the chest regain more or less com- pletely their previous freedom. The respi- ratory murmurs pursue a retrograde course to that described ; they first become slightly perceptible and are attended with change of quality, and then gradually re-acquire their natural duration and intensity, appearing first in the upper parts of the chest, under the clavicle and about the shoulder. JEgophony (redux) or bronchophony are again heard, to disappear a second time with the total removal of effusion. Friction sounds com- monly become audible, and may continue so for a long while after perfect recovery. b. With contraction.—But this fortunate course of things only occurs w'here, as before explained, the resilient power of the lung has not been notably impaired by protracted compression or by the close embrace of firm pseudo-membrane. Under the latter condi- tions the organ is unable to expand in pro- portion as the fluid disappears; and the vacuum, which would otherwise arise in the pleura, prevented from occurring by falling in or re- traction of the wall of the chest. Thi3 phe- nomenon of retrocession of the thorax, first methodically described by Laennec, appears to have been by him too exclusively attributed to absorption of the effusion, no provision being made in his theory for the compressing influence of the contraction of the plastic coat- ing of the lung, coadvancing with its organiza- tion '. The deformity resulting from retraction of the chest after absorption is characterized as follows by Laennec. The circumference of the side is less than that of its fellow ; the intercostal spaces are narrower than natural ; the vertical diameter of the chest lessened, the shoulder depressed ; the nipple is lower than that of the opposite side1 2; the patient appears to lean to the affected side : the spine, though generally straight, sometimes yields towards the seat of disease ; the side appears thin from atrophy of its muscles ; the scapula is tilted outwards, especially at its inferior angle. To these characters M. Woillez has added inclination of the ribs downwards, ab- sence of the natural latural curve of these bones, as if they had undergone pressure from without inwards, and irregularity of the con- tracted surface. The fidelity of Lacnnec’s description may generally be recognised; but cases occur 1 Or. Hodgkin was, we believe, the first to insist on the importance of this additional cause of retro- cession. i M. Woillez observes that lowered position of the nipple is a more trustworthy sign on the right than on the left side, for it is sometimes a physiological ap- pearance in the latter position.