847 CORNEA. manency, from a mere speck which tends ulti- Figures 3 and 4. Jife, though it is sometimes observed below middle age. The opacity is about the twentieth or thir- tieth of an inch broad, and has an equal breadth of nearly clear cornea intervening between it and the circumference of the cor- nea. Arcus senilis appears first at the upper and lower parts of the cornea, and by and by extends all round, though this does not always happen. It is unimportant in a practical point of view, never being so extensive as to obstruct vision, and forming no counter-indication to any operation. Arcus senilis must not be confounded with the blueish white ring round the extreme margin of the cornea, seen in some cases of internal inflammation, particularly in old per- sons. Suffusion of the Cornea from distention.—A certain degree of tension is a necessary con- dition for the transparency and brilliancy of the cornea, as may be inferred from the dull appearance which the eye presents when the tone of the whole body is reduced by debili- tating disease. Increased tension within cer- tain limits adds to the brilliancy of the eye, as is seen in states of mental excitement, but beyond these limits of tension the cornea becomes suffused. This takes place more or less in all inflammations of the eye, in conse- quence either of increased distention from within, or pressure from w ithout. That dimness or brilliancy of the cornea, in the degree referred to, is dependent on its state of tension, is well illustrated by what may be observed in the eye of an animal re- cently slaughtered. Thus, if a sheep’s eye be removed from the orbit, and slightly com- pressed by grasping it in the hand, the cornea, which was before relaxed and dull, becomes distended and clear, but if the eye be more tightly grasped the cornea is rendered more tense, but at the same time is suffused with a milky opacity. This, however, disappears on relaxing the pressure. The circumstance just related, first noticed by the late Dr. Barclay, of Edinburgh, led Mr. Wardrop to recognise the suffusion of the cornea, in certain cases of inflammation, as a sign of over-distention of it from increased accumulation of the aqueous humour, and to adopt the evacuation of the latter in order to relieve the distention of the eyeball,—the cause at once of considerable dis- tress and of a continuance of the inflammatory action. The practice proved advantageous in many cases, but having been too often indis- criminately employed, the aggregate results have been unfavourable, or at least indif- ferent. Opacity of the cornea is a frequent conse- quence of inflammation involving the struc- ture primarily or secondarily, and is owing either to interstitial deposition, or to the ci- catrization of an ulcer. The opacity occurs in various degrees of density, extent, and per- 8 mately to disappear, to a dense and indelible opacity, involving perhaps the whole centre of the cornea, and concealing the pupil. Opacity from interstitial deposition.—The speck called nebula is semitransparent, and so shaded off at its circumference, that it pre- sents no precise limits. An albugo is also shaded off at its circumference, but its centre is densely opaque, and slightly elevated ; both of which characters are owing to the larger quantity of deposited lymph than in the simple nebula. A nebula is usually the result of an increased action of the vessels of the part, but not ending in the formation of a phlyctenula or pustule ; albugo again is the result of a similar action which has terminated in the formation of a phlyctenula or pustule, but which phlyctenula or pustule has receded without being matured. Sometimes an enlarged blood-vessel is seen running into an albugo, and very generally there may be observed, both in cases of albugo and opaque cicatrice, nebulous streaks extend- ing from them tow'ards the circumference of the cornea, indicating where enlarged blood- vessels had run. Treatment of Opacity from interstitial depo- sition.—In proportion as the inflammation subsides, the opacity diminishes; therefore no special remedy is required for the opacity in the first place, and in the second, it is proper to wait, and see what the natural absorbent powers of the part can effect, which,especially in young persons, is often a great deal. If after this the opacity continues, and if it is so situated as to disturb vision, then we may try what local stimulants, counter-irritation, and especially tonics and change of air can do. The local stimulants which I have found most useful are the drops of a solution of corrosive sublimate with vinum opii, and the red preci- pitate salve. See article Collyiuum. Opacity from a cicatrice.—According as the ulcer of the cornea has involved merely the conjunctival layer, or both this and the proper substance, so is the cicatrice semitransparent or perfectly white. The circumference of an opacity from a cicatrice, is usually more de- fined than that of opacity from deposition. As connected with this subject it may be men- tioned that Professor Chelius tells us he has several times found in gouty persons stony deposits in old cicatrices of the cornea (leu- comata); and that Mr. Wardrop once met with several gritty particles and inequalities on the inner surface of the cornea. Though after the healing of some ulcers of the cornea no opacity takes place, still, when the cicatrice of an ulcer is opaque, it is indelibly so, unless the ulcer has been a mere abrasion of the conjunctiva corneae. When an indelible opacity lies over the pupil, dilatation of this, kept up by the habi- tual use of a solution of belladonna extract dropped into the eye, is a very valuable resource’; and in cases in which the opacity