176 FARCY. EXTIRPATION. Sec Ablation. EXTRAVASATION, the escape of fluid substances from the vessels or organs in which they are naturally contained, and their dif- fusion throughout neighbouring tissues, as blood from its vessels, urine from the bladder, or fluid feculent matter from the intestines. EYE. The malignant diseases of the eye have been referred to the article Eye in Can- cer, and the diseases of the conjunctiva in the same way; but it has been found better to form a separate article on Malignant Dis- eases of the Eye. The general pathology of the eye is also better treated under Ofh- thalmology, and the diseases of the conjunc- tiva under Ophthalmia. Some other con- siderations will fall under Tumours, Hydatid and Foreign Bodies. F. FALSE PASSAGE (falsa via, Lat. ; fausse route, Fr.) Any accidental devia- tion from a natural passage made during a surgical operation, and especially in an at- tempt to pass the catheter. In the healthy state of the urethra, it is scarcely possible so to misdirect the catheter as to make a false passage ; the more particularly now that the clumsiness or inexperience of the operator may be obviated by his employing a self- guiding catheter of the proper size. In cases of stricture of the urethra, however, the formation of a false passage may occur, and this, more from the morbid alteration of the parts, than from any want of skill or address in the surgeon. The conduct to be pursued in order to avoid an accident, which may be productive of serious mischief, as well as the treatment suited to it, will be noticed in the article Stricture. FARCY ;farcin, Fr.; scabies equorum, Lat. Veterinary surgeons designate by this name a contagious disease tolerably common amongst the class ofsolidipedes, and which is character- ized by a species of subcutaneous cords formed by the inflamed superficial veins, or lymphatics, by an engorgement of the ganglions, by an eruption of pustules of a furunculous appear- ance, along the tracks, or in the vicinity of the affected lymphatics, and in some cases, by a thickened pasty condition of the limbs. This disease differs essentially from other affections of the lymphatic vessels and gan- glions in the solidipedes, by virtue of its specific cause, which is nothing else than the morbid poison or contagion of glanders. In this class of animals, farcy may occur spontaneously, or it may be transmitted by contagion. I have in several instances propa- gated it to the horse and ass by inoculation, and some veterinary surgeons had previously established the fact of its transmissibility in this manner. All the inoculations of farcy are not however followed by farcinous infec- tion ; the punctures may heal in a few days without any disturbance of the principal func- tions, or a point of suppuration may be formed in the puncture, from which proceeds a train of engorged lymphatics, the inflammation of which soon subsides, in the same way as in artificial inflammation, without infection. In a word, septic matter, different from that either of farcy or glanders, may give rise in the solidi- pedes to inflammation of the lymphatic vessels and ganglions, accompanied by general phe- nomena of infection, and often terminating fatally ; but the affections arising from such inoculations differ from the true farcy in not being followed either by farcinous eruption, or by true glanders. In the solidipedes farcy often precedes, and sometimes accompanies the glanders. The symptoms of farcy may alternate with those of glanders ; the inoculation of the former may give rise to the latter, and vice versa, the one and the other being in fact effects of the same poison (see Glanders), which when trans- mitted to man by infection or inoculation may give rise to the respective morbid appear- ances both of the farcy and glanders as they occur in the solidipedes. Farcy in the solidipedes.—A summary de- scription of farcy, as it is observed in the soli- dipedes, forms a necessary preliminary to the exposition of the characters of this disease in man. (a. 1.) Acute farcy in the solidipedes.—Farcy occurs on the limbs, the head, or the body, or successively on each of these parts. It may be either acute or chronic. Most commonly acute farcy is conjoined with acute glanders, the eruption of lymphatic cords, the abscesses and engorgements that characterize it presenting themselves in a few days on the neck, head, and limbs. Acute farcy, as an external symptom of general and profound infection, is, in most cases, soon followed by death. The appearance of the cords, and the erup- tion of the farcinous pustules, are preceded by a primary fever, variable in its duration, but generally lasting two or three days. The knotty subcutaneous cords, several inches, and sometimes more than a foot long, as thick as the little finger, and forming a strong relief under the skin, present a very remarkable appearance on the side of the neck, or on the inside of the limbs. The skin covering them is not red, but on some parts the hair is rough. In the tracks of the farcinous cords, and in their vicinity, thickened pustules are seen, most of them about the size of a pea, and sur- mounted by a tuft of straight hairs, which are