DACTYLION. 860 these latter are most advantageously adminis- tered by the rectum. The muriate of mor- phine, exhibited by the mouth, is a very valu- able preparation. In some eases greater benefit is derived from other narcotics than opium. These are the extracts of henbane, conium, lettuce, hop, and compound tincture of camphor; and their good effects may be much increased by judicious combination with the balsams and tonics. The tar-water has also been favourably spoken of. The use of alkalies must not be resorted to indiscrimi- nately. If the digestive organs are deranged, and the urine is acid, a prudent and moderate exhibition of them may be attended with be- nefit. In the advanced stages of the com- plaint, when the urine is alkaline, and the general symptoms are evidently of untoward character, much benefit may be obtained from the use of mineral acids. The diet should consist chiefly of farina- ceous substances of light and easy digestion. Fermented liquors should be abstained from. But sound wine or beer, and animal food, may be allowed when the digestion or general health demand it. Warm clothing and flan- nel next the skin are important; the feet especially should be kept dry and warm. Soothing injections in the subacute stages of this affection, as well as of medicated ones in the purely catarrhal condition, have some- times proved useful auxiliaries ; but in some cases, even where performed with all possible gentleness and proper precaution, their effect has rather tended to harass and fatigue the patient. When the disease depends on stricture, stone in the bladder, &c. the cure will be often effected by the removal of the cause. This, however, may be sometimes unadvisable, as, for instance, in the case where a calculus may have already produced such extensive ravages, locally and generally, as to contra-indicate pe- remptorily any attempt to remove it by an operation. Bibliography.—Chopart, Traite des Maladies des Voies Urinaires; nouv. ed. par Pascal. Paris, 1821. Brodie, On Diseases of the Urinary Organs. London, 1832. Civiale, Traite Pratique sur les Maladies des Organes Genito-Urinaires. Paris, 1837. Prout, Na- ture and Treatment of Stomach and Urinary Diseases. London, 1841. Covlson, Diseases of the Urinary Or- gans. London, 1840. Willis, On Diseases of the Uri- nary Organs. London, 1840. {Wm. B. Costello.) CYSTORRHCEA, the catarrhus vesica; of the old surgeons, characterized by the secre- tion of mucus from the bladder, which with the urine is generally voided with some diffi- culty, though mostly without pain. (Sec Cystitis.) CYSTOTOME. See Lithotome. CYSTOCELE, Hernia of the bladder. See Hee.nia. CYSTOTOMY (from Kverog the bladder, and Tepvu) I cut), is the operation of cutting into the urinary bladder from a contiguous mucous, or cutaneous surface of the body. This operation may be required to relieve the bladder under complete retention of urine ; it has also been performed for removing co- agulated blood from the bladder, but impro- perly, as a syringe would have accomplished the same object by suction through an ure- thral tube. Where the bladder is occupied by benign polypous tumours, arising from its lining membrane, cystotomy is applicable, if the difficulty of forming a correct diagnosis can be overcome. Le Cat invented instru- ments for such an emergency; Callisen has sanctioned their employment; Warner, Covil- lard, Lassus, and others, have actually per- formed the operation, removing polypous tumours successfully ; and many surgeons must in the course of their practice have felt the need of such a resource. Foreign sub- stances detained in the bladder, from whatever source derived—whether introduced from without, or originating within the body—may call for this operation ; but by far the most frequent occasions for its performance are created by the presence of calculous concre- tions of considerable size. See Lithotomy, under which head the different methods of reaching the urinary bladder by incision will be detailed. (J. G. Crosse.) D. DACRYOADENITIS, inflammation of the lacrymal gland, from Saspvw, to weep, and adi/v, gland.—See Lacuymal Organs, Diseases of. D AC RYOC YSTOB L E NOR R HCEA, Blenorrhoea of the lacrymal sac, from daicpvu), to weep, Kvang, a bladder or sac, f3\tvva, mu- cus, and peu>, to flow.—See Lacuymal Or- gans. DACRYOCYSTITIS, Inflammation of the lacrymal sac, from daKpmo and uvang.— See Lacrymal Organs. DACRYOHrEMORRHYSlS, Sangui- neous lacrymation, from atpa, blood, and (nui, to flow.—See Lacrymal Organs. DACRYOLITES, A name proposed by Professor Walt her for concretions deposited in the lachrymal passages, from Saicpvuj and \i9og.—See Lacrymal Organs. DACRYOMA, from Saicpvoj, I weep.—A name employed by Vogel to designate the epiphora produced by the occlusion of the puncta lachrymalia. DACTYLION, from SaicrvXog, a finger.— The adhesion of the fingers to each other, whether occurring congenitally, or from acci- dent, as in burns.