BURNS AND SCALDS. 533 most cases of subcutaneous suppuration is a two-edged sword. It does harm as often as good ; so, at least, it has seemed to me. I have seen benefit in the scrofulous bubo from the sulphate of zinc poultice, from the goulard poultice, and from cloths saturated with the solution of chloride of lime or of sulphate of zinc, applied to the groin, covered with oiled silk, and held on by a light bandage. The cachectic bubo, when the opening in the skin is large, the cavity exposed freely, and its surface irritable, is best treated by ttie carrot poultice, or the poultice of bread and aqueous solution of opium. If the parts are simply languid, the stimulating applications, such as the compound tincture of benzoin, the balsams, the melted compound elemic oint- ment, &c. may be poured in, while poultices are still kept on ; but if the parts are irrita- ble, stimulants are apt to disagree, and the aqueous solution of opium or belladonna an- swers best. When ulcerations have supplanted the ab- scess, and its opening, they must be treated in accordance with the principles which regulate our management of ulcers in their various forms. It would be out of place to enter upon these at present. Local treatment of sinuses.—If these are im- mediately beneath the skin, and of moderate extent, the simplest plan is to lay them open. But if very long, a seton is preferable ; or they may be incised to a convenient extent, and a seton passed through the remainder l. If a sinus passes deep, as it sometimes will, it cannot be laid open properly. Injections of a very strong solution of the nitrate of silver, or, as Sir Benjamin Brodie has advised, the introduction of a probe, coated with a thin film of it, or a bougie smeared with the nitrate of silver ointment, have all been found to succeed. But a sinus will often lead to a diseased gland, or to altered cellular tissue. It is generally useless attempting to heal a sinus of this sort, and it would be worse than useless it we could heal it, for fresh suppuration would ensue. When the gland or the cellu- lar membrane is removed, or recovers itself, the sinus will do well under the ordinary remedies. Local treatment of diseased gland.—It is in the scrofulous and cachectic buboes that a portion, which is common, or the whole, which is rare, of a gland will fall into a morbid state, and will be hardly able, if at all, to regain its natural organization. Such glands may be seen in the shape of pale-coloured projections at the bottom of suppurating cavities, or the cavity may be partly formed at their expense, or, lastly, such a gland may form the termi- 1 If a sinus runs down, as it often docs, in the com- missure of the thigh and perineum, the surgeon should hesitate before he lays it open. I have, more than once, seen a most troublesome line ot ulceration from its division. Nor is it needed. An opening at the bottom of the sinus and a seton prove sufficient. nation of a sinus. Sometimes, at the bottom of a cavity an entire gland is so disorgan- ized that it sloughs away, or may be pulled away, but more frequently it is firmly fixed, and either bits only are separated, or, what is quite as frequent, the gland gradually regains its normal state. Formerly these glands got very rough usage. They were rubbed with potassa fusa, or cut out, or had troches thrust into them, all very objectionable proceedings, evincing a disre- gard of the natural resources of the system, and the offspring of bad general treatment. Under the employment of tonics generally, and of poultices with moderately stimulating applications locally, these glands in time re- cover themselves, and in a shorter time, too, and with less hazard than if they were offi- ciously meddled with. If a gland lies loose, it is well to remove it, or if a piece of it forms an obvious slough, that may be ab- stracted too. But beyond this the surgeon should be chary of venturing. If the cellular tissue is decidedly diseased, an incision should be made into it, and the slough, if there be any, got out. If there is no actual slough, the usual dressings will in- duce more healthy action. I believe that all the more important cir- cumstances connected with bubo, not de- pendent on the absorption of a specific poison, will be found in the preceding article. This plan of viewing it in a more insulated manner than is generally done, is calculated to exert a beneficial influence upon our practice ; for many, if I may be allowed to say so, are too prone to look on bubo as a syphilitic symp- tom, and the common ideas with regard to “ sympathetic bubo,” are, to say the least of them, vague. When syphilis comes before the reader, he will find such a notice of the bubo dependent on that morbid poison, as will put him in possession of what is known upon the subject. (Henry James Johnson.) BUBONCELE, from (3ovf3d>v, the groin, and y?;Xr}, tumour, Inguinal Hernia, or Rup- ture, Eng., Leislenbruch, Ger. The tumour while confined to the groin is so named, and owing to the greater size of the inguinal canal in the male, is much more frequent in that sex. If the rupture descends into the scro- tum, it takes the name of scrotal hernia. See Hernia. BUNYON, See Burs.® Mucosae. BURNS and SCALDS (Burn, Goth. Bnnnan, A. S. Bcrnan, byrnan; Dut. Berrien, burnen; Germ. Brennen; Sw. Braenne; Fr. bruler ; It. bruciare ; Lat. urere ; Gr, Kano.— Scald, Fr. Eschauder, from the It. Scalddre, calida urere, q. d. excalidare, to burn with hot (water). By burn or scald is signified every lesion, more or less considerable, produced upon a living part by the influence of elevated