ENCANTHIS. 118 1815. Sprengel, in Hist, des Operations Chirurg. Traduction Franchise de Jourdan. t. ix. p. 1. Riche- rand,, Histoire d’une Resection des Cotes et de la Plevre. Paris, 1818. Betty, London Med. Repository, 191. March, 1823. Jowett, Medico-Clnrurgical eview, p. 267. July, 1826. Guerard, Arch. Gen. de Med. 2eme Serie, t. xiii. p. 270. 1827. Scott, Essay on Paracentesis Thoracis. Edinb. 1827. Laen- nec, On Diseases of the Chest, translated by Forbes, 2nd edit. Lond. 1827. Giorgi, Dell’ Empiema: osservazioni pratiche. Imola, 1829. Larrey, Clinique Chirurgicale, t. ii. p. 241. Paris, 1829. Reynaud, Journ. Hebdomad, t. v. Paris, 1829. Tarral, Journ. Hebdomad, t. vii. p. 119. Paris, 1830. Begin, Diet, de Med. et de Chir. Prat. t. vii. p. 158. 1831. Town- send, Art. Empyema, Cyclop, of Pract. Medicine, vol. ii. 1833. Stokes, On Diagnosis of Empyema. Dub. Med. Journal, vol. iii. 1833. Pancoast, Amer. Journ. of Med. Sc. 1833. J. Thumam, Ed. Med. and Surg. Journ. vol. xlii. n. 319. 1834. Kortens, Hufeland’s Journal. Juni, 1834. Law, Art. Pleurisy, Cyclop, of Pract. Medicine, vol. iii. Lond. 1834. Auct. Var., Bulletin de l’Acad. Roy. de Med. de Pans, t. i. 1836. Stokes, On Diseases of the Chest. Dublin, 1837. Hirtz, Archives de Medecine, p. 172. Fevrier, 1837. Woillez, Recherches Pratiques sur l’lnspection et la Mensuration de la Poitrine. Paris, 1838. Usiglio, Armali Universali de Medecina. Agosto, 1838. Heyfeldcr et Valleix, Arch, de Mede- cine, 3eme Serie, t. v. p. 59. 1839. ( Walter Hayle Walshe.) EMULSION. A soft medicine resembling milk, formed by the imperfect combination of oil with water, by means of gum or alkalies. The various emulsions are useful as demul- cents, and as pleasant vehicles for nauseous or acrid preparations. EN ARTHROSIS (from tv, in, and dpQpov, a joint). Ball and socket joint. ENCANTHIS. The term Encanthis has been used rather indefinitely, as implying an enlargement situated at the inner angle of the eye, produced either by an increase in the size of the lachrymal caruncle, or of the semi- lunar membrane, or by the formation of a tumour originating in, attached to, or situated upon, either of these parts. The most common form of encanthis con- sists in a mere chronic enlargement of the lachrymal caruncle ; this may or may not be connected with a similar state of enlargement of the semilunar membrane. The lachrymal caruncle is sometimes enlarged and granular ; it has a red, spongy, fungous appearance, vvithout, however, possessing any disposition to become malignant. The lachrymal carun- cle sometimes becomes very hard and some- what painful, and presents, on careful exa- mination after its removal by operation, an appearance very similar to scirrhous disease. Medullary and melanotic tumours occasionally form upon, and are attached to, the semilunar membrane and the lachrymal caruncle. ]. Chronic enlargement of the lachrymal caruncle. Encanthis Simplex. This disease is not unfrequently the mani- fest consequence of chronic inflammation ; in some cases it appears to exist as a state of simple hypertrophy, the texture of the carun- cle being perfectly normal, although its volume is much augmented. This disease comes on very gradually; it is not a source of pain, nei- ther does it give rise to much inconvenience, except that it renders the eye liable to inflam- mation, and, by destroying the perfect forma- tion of the lacus lachrymalis, or by interfering with the proper position of the puncta, causes epiphora. This morbid production is said to acquire, in some instances, considerable size; but I have never yet found the lachrymal caruncle, when affected with this variety of mere en- largement—this state of simple hypertrophy— to be larger than a horse-bean l. Treatment.—When the enlargement is not great, when neither pain nor inflammation are present, the enlarged part may be touched, every night and morning, with a weak solu- tion of the nitrate of silver (two grains to an ounce of water), or the vinum opii may be applied to it once or twice a day. The part may also be bathed now and then with a weak solution of alum (three grains to an ounce of water). If pain and increased vascularity are present, the application of a few leeches at the inner canthus will be necessary. If the disease do not yield to thpse measures, if it conti- nue to increase, and particularly if the incon- veniences to which it gives rise be of a very annoying and troublesome character, it would be necessary to remove it by the operation to be presently explained. The semilunar membrane very seldom be- comes much enlarged, except as a consequence of chronic inflammation. When it is so en- larged, our first object is to remove any in- flammation that may be present, and this may be done by the application of leeches to the corner of the eye, by occasional careful and superficial scarification of the part, by the use of, first, soothing lotions (an aqueous solution of opium, applied warm), and afterwards astringent (two grains of the sulphate of zinc to the ounce of water) collyria. The vinum opii may also be applied to the part once or twice a day with a glass tube or camel-hair pencil. Should these means fail, and should the enlargement be so considerable as to ren- der the eye weak and irritable, or to produce any material personal blemish, it may be raised with a fine forceps, and by means of a curved scissors, snipped away to the desired extent, care being taken to remove only the loose projecting margin of the enlarged mem- brane. Fungoid enlargement of the lachrymal caruncle. Encanthis fungosa. This enlargement is, from the first, of a loose flabby structure; it is uneven on its 1 Scarpa (Practical Observations on the principal Diseases of the Eyes, translated by Briggs, p. 182) asserts, that it is occasionally “ as large as a hazel or chestnut.” Sabatier (I)e la Medecine Operatoire, tom. ii. p. 188) says, “ Son volume varie jusqu’a acquerir celui d’une grossc chataignc on d'nnc noix.” Benedict (De Morbis Ocidi Huinani Infiammatoriis, § 148) has seen it increased “ ad nucis avellanae mag- nitudincm.”