271 ANEURISM. being formed. The course of the saphena vein should be clearly ascertained before making the incision, as a wound of it, might, under some circumstances, prove highly dangerous. The patient lies on his back, with the thigh gently bent, and inclined outwards. The pulsations of the artery having been felt as low down as the point where they be- come masked by the sartorius, an incision of about three inches in length is made in the line of the artery, beginning below the origin of the profunda, or about four inches below Poupart’s ligament. The skin and cellular tissue being divided, the internal edge of the sartorius is seen ; this being raised, a director is passed under the fascia, in order that it may be cautiously divided. The femoral vessels in their sheath will then be exposed. The point of the blunt knife, or even that of the bis- toury with due care, may be employed to lay open the sheath, to the extent of an inch or more. The needle is then passed from within outwards, the vein being to the inside and rather behind, and the nerve being to the outside of the artery. In wounds of the femoral artery, in this region, or of the profunda, as well as in spon- taneous aneurism occurring high up, the ves- sel may also be secured between the epigas- tric artery and the profunda. The mode of arriving upon the sheath would be precisely the same as that just described. The ligature should be placed close above the profunda to leave as much space as possible between the ligature and the epigastric and circumflex ar- teries. The sheath here contains only the artery and vein, the latter a vessel of some size, and coming on the inside, somewhat in front of the artery; the nerve lies at some distance on its outside. Ligature in the middle of the thigh:—In this situation, the femoral artery has not yet reached the tendinous canal through which it passes into the popliteal space. It was upon this portion of the femoral artery, that Hunter first applied the ligature for the cure of a popliteal aneurism. He made his incision on the inner part of the thigh, rather below its middle, continuing it obliquely across the inner border of the sartorius muscle. At the present day, the outer edge of this muscle is preferred for the line of the incision, both because the vessel is thereby more easily exposed, and the saphena vein is less likely to be injured. Some surgeons recommend a middle course ; that is, to cut along the middle of the sartorius, and then to include it, either in the anterior or posterior lip of the incision, as circumstances may render it most desirable. If the surgeon is operating close upon the point where the artery is about to pass through the abductor to be- come the popliteal artery, his incision must then be on the outside of the sartorius. If this muscle should interfere too much with the facility of accomplishing his object, he should not, as Desault advised, divide it; en- larging the incision will answer every pur- pose. But the decided preference given to the operation on the superior division of the artery has greatly diminished the importance of these remarks. The incision should be at least three inches long, corresponding with the space that marks the separation between the outer edge of the sartorius and vastus internus. In some sub- jects, this line is not distinct, and it is there- fore safer to cut a line or two within the external edge of the sartorius, so that its fibres may be exposed as soon as the cellular tissue and fascia are divided ; it will be thus easy to get to its posterior surface, and de- tach it from the thigh, by including it in the posterior lip of the wound. By following the cellular interstice, the sheath of the vessels is easily found. On account of its great strength, some care must be taken in opening it. The best way is to scratch a small aperture through which the grooved director may be intro- duced, and then it may be safely slit open. The vein lies on the inside, the nerve to the outside, of the artery ; its isolation from the vein is here a task of some delicacy, as they are connected by dense cellular tissue. Dur- ing the whole time of the operation the limb should be gently bent, and as much relaxed as possible. The dissection will be the more easy on this account. The needle should be passed beneath the artery from within, out- wards, leaving the vein to the inside. An assistant should be stationed in such a position as to be able in an instant to command the artery, by pressing it against the pubis, in case it should unfortunately happen to be wounded during the operation. The femoral artery had been tied in cases of wounds of this vessel, long before the establishment of the principle which has governed this operation since the days of Hunter, namely, the placing the ligature on a sound portion of the vessel, and at a certain distance above the aneurismal tum- our. Cases had also been recorded, where the aneurismal sac having been attacked with gangrene, the coagula and sloughs were thrown off, and the patients were cured ; the femoral artery becoming obliterated. Guat- tani mentions a case of inguinal aneurism, which was as large as the first; it became gangrenous, and the femoral artery was obli- terated for a considerable extent from the crural arch downwards. The patient was exhausted by the suppuration which followed the detachment of the eschars ; but there was no deficiency in the supply of blood to the limb, notwithstanding the obliteration of the main trunk. A similar case is mentioned by M. A. Severinus ; the patient recovered per- fectly. Saviard mentions a case, in which Bottentuit, in the year 1688, placed a liga- ture on a wounded femoral artery in the Hotel Dieu with complete success. The surgeons who were called in consultation, he states, although they were of opinion that nothing but the ligature of the wounded ves- sel could save the patient’s life, were fearful