779 CINCHONA. in restoring lost tone to the system, in all cases of debility, however induced ; and in imparting fresh energy and vigour to con- stitutions, congenitally weak. Even when a healthy state of the digestive organs exists, it imparts a higher power of action, promotes the appetite, assists digestion and nutrition, and gives a greater degree of regularity to the functions. The salutary effects of its adminis- tration, in cases of erysipelas, gangrene, old ulcers, extensive suppuration, and venereal ulceration, have been long and well attested, so also has the decided control it seems to possess over all diseases assuming a periodic character. Sir Benjamin Brodie relates the case of a gentleman, who had lived long in a tropical climate, and became affected with stricture of the urethra, of a spasmodic nature, which re- curred every alternate night about twelve o’clock, and continued until five or six o’clock in the morning. By anticipating the parox- ysms, and administering quinine, in large doses, at short intervals of time, a cure was effected. The surgical diseases, however, for the cure of which cinchona derives its chief celebrity, are gangrene and mortification. Its great remedial powers in checking, and even sub- duing one of these morbid conditions, have gained for it, from Mr. Pott, the appellation of a noble medicine. That great surgeon observes, “ Its general power of stopping the one (gangrene) and resisting the other (mor- tification) have made no inconsiderable addi- tion to the chirurgic art.” He excludes from this observation, that particular species of mortification of the toes and feet, frequently but erroneously attributed to the cutting the nails, or a corn, too deeply, and which he con- siders as being a disease, sui generis. Mr. Pott observes, in all other cases, wherein it is used, or recommended, no man has a higher opinion of it; but in this I cannot give it a praise which it does not deserve. The reme- dial effects of this medicine in mortification have, however, been questioned by another surgeon of eminence, Mr. S. Sharpe, who observes, “ I have never clearly to my satis- faction, met with any evident proofs of its preference to the cordial medicine, usually prescribedand the learned author of the Surgical Dictionary seems to entertain simi- lar doubts of its efficacy in the same disease. But, opposed to these opinions, we have the high authority of John Hunter, who has re- marked in his observations on the mortifica- tion preceded by inflammation, that bark is the only medicine that can be depended on, as it increases the powers of the system, and strengthens the constitution, while it lessens the action. Its first employment in these diseases is generally ascribed to Sir Hans Sloane, but Dr. Sigmond, in his interesting lectures on cinchona, says that the individual who pub- lished the earliest account of this practice was Rushworth, in a work, entitled, “ A Proposal for the Improvement of Surgeryhe seemed, however, to be only aware of its value in the gangrene attendant upon intermittent fever. Douglas, Amyand, Monro, Kirkland, Van Swieten, De Haen, and Haller, have advo- cated the use of the bark. It has been remarked, that tanners, and even individuals of delicate constitution living in the vicinity of tan-yards, derive benefit from the exhalations arising from the large quantities of the common oak bark employed in the process of tanning: and in illustration of its power of changing diseased into healthful action, and restoring vigour and energy to the enfeebled frame, instances have been cited of the speedy recovery of labourers working in tan-holes, whose health had been previously much impaired by old indolent ulcers, and diseases of a chronic character. Notwithstanding all these testimonials in favour of the good results derivable from the judicious administration of Peruvian bark, we must not lose sight of the injurious effects contingent upon the wholesale and indiscri- minate use of that powerful remedy. Some years ago, physicians and surgeons imagined that, in certain diseases, they could not ad- minister too much bark, and measured the beneficial effects likely to result from the drug, according to the quantity taken by the patient. With such disregard to the common prin- ciples of physiology and of pathology ; and with the blind zeal of credulous enthusiasts, who, never thinking it necessary to institute inquiries of their own, allowed themselves to be carried along with the current opinion of the day, as to the omnipotent power of bark in subduing disease, is it to be wondered at, for it cannot be denied, that pernicious con- sequences have resulted from such an empiri- cal modus medendi? We are aware that the remedial powers of bark have been greatly exaggerated, and that the drug itself has been greatly abused, in surgical as well as medical practice ; but still, we confess that we do not see much reason at the present date for the horror, with which a contemporary surgical writer of high standing, seems to regard even the possibility of administering too large, or inordinate doses, of cinchona. In prescribing bark, it is essentially neces- sary that the following circumstances be duly attended to :— 1st. In all cases where the stomach and intestines are in an irritable condition, or wffiere the functions of the liver are deranged, it should not be administered. 2d. It should never be ordered until all inflammatory symp- toms have subsided, or have been subdued by bleeding and other means. 3d. The influence which the administration of that medicine appears to exert on the digestive organs, and their several functions, should be carefully observed. The officinal preparations of Cinchona are a subtle powder, an infusion, a decoction, tinctures, and extracts ; besides the sulphates