409 GANGRENE, HOSPITAL. acetic acid, even vinegar, citric acid, weak sulphuric acid, muriatic acid diluted with water, egyptiac ointment, succeed in cases of this kind ; and he alleges that the benefit re- sulting from these topical applications, have often been attributed to the general plan of treatment pursued, and particularly to the use of evacuants. In the pulpy form, these appli- cations, viz. vinegar, citric acid, and the dilute mineral acids, prove beneficial only when great pains are taken to destroy the pulpy covering, (p. 69 to 73.) As other stimulant applications may be mentioned spirits of wine, either alone, or holding in solution some of the warm gums, such as myrrh, aloes, and camphor, which form in many cases, says Dr. Thomson, very good applications in hospital gangrene. They stimulate parts in the state of gangrene, to the production of healthy granulations ; while they correct powerfully, also, the fetid smell of those which are sphacelated. 3. Escharotics.—Much advantage has been derived by various practitioners from the free application of escharotic substances to sur- faces affected with hospital gangrene at dif- ferent stages of its progress ; and hence, by many, such applications have been regarded as the most powerful remedies for this dis- ease, and even as the sole remedies of which it stands in need. It can scarcely be doubted, however, that it is only in those cases in which the local affection is of an indolent character, and un- accompanied by any violent degree of local or constitutional inflammatory action, that this class of remedies can be expected to operate beneficially. Thus Dr. Thomson states, that among the wounded of Waterloo, in the hos- pitals of Antwerp, in whom the hospital gan- grene was almost universally unaccompanied by fever, or by marks of great topical inflam- mation, the application of caustic substances seemed to arrest the progress of the sore, without exciting inflammation. Accordingly it will be found, that those surgeons who have most strenuously recom- mended the employment of escharotic reme- dies in the treatment of hospital gangrene, have generally been of opinion that this dis- ease is of a strictly local character ; and that, provided the practitioner is able to destroy the whole of the substance that has become contaminated with the disease, there is no danger of its reappearing on the new surface that is obtained, unless in consequence of a new infection ; that is to say, that there does not exist in hospital gangrene any particular condition of the general constitution, capable in itself of modifying the character of the local affection. As to the chemical agent which may be most advantageously employed as an escha- rotic in cases of hospital gangrene, there pre- vails great diversity in the opinions of prac- tical observers. Several of the navy surgeons sprinkled the red oxide of mercury upon the sores, in order to promote the separation of the sloughs. Dr. Boggie states, that he used this substance very extensively at Bilbao, be- cause, after many trials, he found that it was the only escharotic that could be applied without causing much pain, and that it an- swered the purpose as effectually as any other. A thick eschar is very soon formed, which is easily removed at the next dressing. Dr. B. says, that an incipient phagedaena maybe often removed by one application of the precipi- tate ; but if the ulceration has made much progress, or has penetrated deep into the soft parts, several applications may be necessary, as the eschar only penetrates to a certain depth. M. Delpech mentions his having been as- sured by surgeons of the Anglo-Portuguese army, that muriatic acid was in familiar use in the hospitals of that army, to arrest hospital gangrene ; and he informs us that this applica- tion was likewise employed in some of the hospitals of Toulouse, with the greatest suc- cess. If the disease was slight and recent, the acid was employed diluted with water; when the disease was more severe, the con- centrated acid was used, professedly as a caus- tic. M. Delpech’s own experience of this remedy, so far as it went, w'as satisfactory, and he refers particularly to Mr. Guthrie, as en- tertaining a highly favourable opinion of it. Mr. Welbank states, that he has employed nitric acid as an escharotic, with uniform and immediate success, in a great variety of in- stances. In these cases the application was made with prompt relief to the sufferings of the patient, and with manifest benefit to the progress of the malady. If the disease be not far advanced, after cleansing the surface with tepid water, and absorbing the moisture with lint, he at once applies the undilute acid. Where, however, there is a thick and pulpy slough, as much as possible of this should be removed with forceps and scissors before the application be made. The surrounding parts being then protected by a thick coating of lard or suet, he proceeds to press, steadily and for some minutes, a thick pledget of lint, previously immersed in the undilute acid, on every point of the diseased surface, till it ap- pears converted into a firm and dry mass. The parts may be then covered with simple dressings, and evaporation kept up exter- nally by cooling lotions. It is always pru- dent, he says, and often necessary, to remove the eschar at the end of sixteen or twenty hours. If the patient has become perfectly free from pain, and the parts below the slough appear, on its removal, healthy and florid, the sore may be treated as a common wound or ulcer. Stimulant dressings have generally appeared to Mr. W. most advantageous, and he has himself usually employed the ceratum lapidis calaminaris, or applied occasionally or constantly a solution of argentum nitratum, in the proportion of two or three grains to an ounce of distilled water. If, however, the patients have suffered any recurrence of pain, referred to some particular point, or to the