EMPYEMA. 103 The shoulder of the diseased side is higher than its fel- low, and the clavicle, except at the internal articula- tion, extremely prominent; the scapula of the healthy side is tilted backwards, and the clavicle almost dis- located forwards at its sternal end. The extreme antero-posterior flattening arises from the absence of the heart from its natural position ; the organ pulsates (as it did during the stage of dilatation also) below the right nipple—having probably been retained in this situation by adhesions. Fig. 23-2. Fig. 232. Anterior view of the chest, a. right side and position in which the heart pidsates. b, left side, smooth, sunken, and without the least appearance of costal elevation. The nipple is lower on this than on the right side, though the measurement between the nipples and the sterno-claviculur articulations is less on this than on the right side, c, clavicle of diseased side, extremely prominent except at the internal ex- tremity. d, sternal end of the. clavicle on the sound side, almost dislocated forwards. Fig. 233. Fig. 233. Lateral view of the sound side, a, right scapula thrown backwards, b, prominence caused by sternal end of right clavicle. Fig. 234. Fig. 234. Lateral view of the diseased side, a, right side advancing considerably beyond the anterior plane of the left, b, left side sunken in. c, left scapula. d, right scapula thrown considerably backwards. e, sternal end of the left clavicle. Subjects in whom the removal of pleuritic effusion is attended with contraction, rarely enjoy perfect health. They are subject to dyspnoea, either constant or occasional,—to fatigue under greatly less exertion than that productive of weariness in a state of health, and they sometimes suffer constitutionally. The latter mode of suffering, however, more especially, we believe to be owing to the frequent association of tuberculous disease of the lungs, rather than to the sole influence of the pleuritic affection. This opinion is sup- ported by the fact, that individuals presenting this heteromorphism to a very great amount, may enjoy very excellent general health with full efficiency of the pulmonary functions. In illustration of this fact, may be adduced the oft-quoted case of the Parisian surgeon men- tioned by Laennec, who, notwithstanding such contraction, was able not only to discharge the active duties of his profession, but to deli- ver a lecture of an hour’s duration, once or even twice daily, for a number of years, with the most perfect ease to himself. In order to render the relation of the phy- sical signs to the rise, progress, and decline of the disease apparent, we have constructed the annexed table, exhibiting, at a single view, the whole chain of physical phenomena.