198 FISTULA, INTESTINAL. Nol7K.SE. Travers’ In- quiry, &c., p. 163. Wound of the ab- dominal walls three inches in length; half of the intesti- nal canal protrud- ed ; wound de- tached ; intestine returned; fecal dis- charge on the third day; external wound sloughed extensively, so as to expose the col on, in which was an opening allowing the feces to es- cape. 1 lealcd by a tedious process of granula- tion. Travers. Phil. Trans, vol. 50, p. 35. Twelve inches ot small intestine pro- truded through a small wound in the abdominal wall; a wound in the in- testine which was closed by an unin- terrupted suture; the intestine after- wards reduced, and the external wound sewed. Recovery in six weeks. Gi.endor- PIUS. Spec. Chirurg. obs. 33 & 34. Colon wounded; feces discharged; wound of intestine closed by the glo- ver’s suture. Recovery. Albinus. Annot. Acad, lib. ii. cap. 8. Wound below the left ribs; discharge of aliment on fol- lowing day; wound dilated until it ex- ceeded a span in length ; copious discharge of feces. Permanent intesti- nal fistula, with double prolapse. Scarpa. Wishart’s Trans, p. 358. Abdomen wound- ed ; small intestine protruded, and per- forated incauti- ously by a surgeon pushing it back with the point of a spindle ; fecal dis- charge for a length of time. Spontaneous cure. Mosoati. Mem. de l’Acad. de Chir. t. 8. Abdomenwounded by a knife; three feet of intestine protruded, and gan- grenous from being strangulated by the parictalwound;free discharge of feces on the fifth day. Permanent intesti- nal fistula. Fecal fistula from gun-shot wound..—Wounds of the intestines inflicted by fire-arms, as well as those produced by sharp instruments, arc not necessarily attended with fecal effusion into the peritoneum, nor with an external escape of feculent matter. When, however, fecal discharge follows injuries by fire-arms, it may occur either immediately after their inflic- tion, or not until several days have elapsed ; in which case it is presumed that the intestine in the first instance had not been wounded, but only contused ; and that the discharge occurred after a gangrenous slough had been detached. This explanation is only applica- ble to such openings in the bowel as are in immediate proximity to the external wound ; for when the gangrenous portion of intestine is not in direct communication with the wound in the abdominal walls, there is usually no escape of feces ; the separated slough falls into the intestinal canal, and is cast oft' by the natural passage, the breach in the intestine being repaired by a peritoneal surface, bor- rowed from the contiguous intestine, omen- tum, or abdominal wall. The following table, which exhibits the leading characters and result of ten cases of fecal discharge from injuries of the in- testines by fire-arms, shews that in a very large proportion of such cases the discharge is only temporary, since it ceased altoge- ther in eight of the ten cases. From the successful issue of these injuries it may be in- ferred that the intestine had not been much reduced incapacity. Therefore the alimentary and fecal matters experienced but little inter- ruption to their natural course, and conse- quently the discharge from the wound soon ceased. When, however, the injury causes complete division of the intestine, the wounded tube becomes united at an angle more or less acute; an impediment to the course of the intestinal contents is thus produced, which determines their permanent exit by the exter- nal wound. The table exhibits two instances in which permanent intestinal fistula was in this manner established. The case by Dessault was accompanied by protrusion, and complete, division of the intestine ; and that by Larrey exhibited a similar condition, and other com- plications. In both cases, in consequence of the absence of the membranous funnel, and the retraction of the divided extremities of the intestine which this structure has been shown to promote, the natural powers of reparation were inadequate to the task of restoring the continuity of the canal. Cases of gun-shot wounds of the abdomen followed by fecal discharge. Belloste. Chir. d’Ho- pital, p. 3, c. xv. Gun-shot wound of abdomen ; extens- ive laceration of co- lon ; escape of feces. In two months spontaneously cur- ed. Rev. Mem. de l’Acad. de Chir. t. ii. p. 364. edit. 1819. Gun-shot wound; escape of feces on the twentieth day. Perfect cure in six weeks. Gerard. Mem. de l’Acad. de Chir. t. ii. p. 364. Gun-shot wound traversing tlio ab- domen ; colon wounded; feces dis- charged from two openings. Wounds cicatrized in thirty-five days. Hunter. Treatise on the blood and in- flammation, p. 551. Three balls entered the abdomen at the left of the navel, and passed out near the first lumbar vertebra; feculent discharge occurred in the third week. The discharge of fcccs soon ceased, and the wounds healed favourably.