AMPUTATION. 170 For the prevention of haemorrhage, the pre- liminary ligature en masse, as practised by Ledran and Garengeot, is now totally laid aside. The axillary artery is first secured, next the circumflex, and then any smaller ves- sels that are found to give blood. The dress- ing is performed in the usual way by the con- frontation of the flaps, or lips of the wound. It should be rendered compressive from the trunk towards the stump, with a view to pre- vent pus from fusing in that direction. SHOULDER. Although the proposal to remove parts of the scapula or clavicle, when diseased, may seem a bold one, it has been effected, both by accident and by operation, without de- stroying life. Larrey has, in several instances, removed with complete success a large por- tion both of the scapula and clavicle. Mr. Cumming performed the entire ablation of the shoulder, in the Antigua Hospital in 1808, and the patient recovered perfectly. Many cases are also recorded, in which the shoulder was torn from the body by machinery, and the patients nevertheless recovered. Whenever a portion of these bones is to be removed by the surgeon, he must trust to his experience and anatomical knowledge: to those resources, in a word, which qualify him for undertaking and carrying through a sur- gical proceeding for which no precise rule can be laid down, every step of which, from be- ginning to end, being dependent on the na- ture of the case. The preservation of suffi- cient soft parts to cover the stump well is an important point, and wherever it can be effected, by adhering to ordinary rules, the surgeon should be guided by them. INFERIOR EXTREMITY. Amputations are performed on the abdominal limb, either in the con- tinuity or in the contiguity. The object, however, which recommends amputations in the contiguity so exten- sivelyin the thoracic limb, namely, the preservation of as much as possible, is by no means so imperative in the case of the lower limb. Fig. 31 represents the lines of incision made in amputa- tions of various portions of the foot: a, h, the dorsal incision for Chopart's amputation; c, d, the dorsal incision, for amputation of the metatarsal bones, from their aHicidations with those of the carpus; e, f the dorsal incisionfor the amputation of all the phedanges; g, h, s, two oblique incisions for removing the great toe by the oval method ; s, k, l, two similar incisions for the removal of the next toe; n, m,f, two oblique incisions for the amputation of the little toe ; the prolongation of the line, m, f shores the manner in which the flesh of the sole of the foot spreads beyond and under the toes. All these transverse lines appear nearer to each other, on account of the foot being foreshortened. Amputation of the first phalanx of the great toe.—When the disease affecting the ungual phalanx of the great toe has spared the soft parts on the plantar surface, and a sufficient flap can be formed, it will be proper to remove the phalanx only. The same rule applies as in the amputation of the first phalanx of the thumb, allowing merely for the larger size of the articular surfaces of the toe: to de- scribe the mode of proceeding would there- fore be a repetition. Amputation of the toes in the articulations of the phalanges with the metatarsal bones.—The phalanges of the toes are so short, and their removal impedes so little the functions of the foot, that, with the exception of the great toe, the surgeon has no object in saving the first phalanx, even when the disease or injury is limited to the second, and he therefore per- forms the amputation at their articulations with the bones of the foot. The junction of the toes with the meta- tarsal bones is marked on the dorsal surface of the foot by a depression. The transverse line on the plantar sur- face is also much deeper than in the hand, ow- ing to the prominence or fulness of the sole of the foot, which ad- vances here, as it were, under the toes. The same methods of effect- ing disarticulation are practicable, as in the case of the fingers ; but their execution is not quite so easy. The oblique method is per- haps the best. Fig. 32. Lisfranc's plan for removing all the toes toge- ther ; the ends of the metacarpal bones are seen in the wound; the flap is formed from the soft parts in the sole of the foot. Lisfranc’s plan of removing the fingers by the flap method is applicable also to the toes, either singly or together. Amputation of the great toe in its articulation with the metatarsal bone.—The propriety of perform- ing this operation has been a subject of discus- sion. It has been urged on the one hand, that when the great toe is removed, it is difficult to obtain a sufficient covering for the head of the metatarsal bone, on account of its great size, and that the cicatrix is exposed to painful fric- tion ; and for these reasons, that an operation in the continuity of the metatarsal bone is much to be preferred. On the other, it is maintained that the head of the bone ought to be preserved on account of its importance to the due performance of the functions of the foot, and that its removal will cause the foot to turn in. With due care, however, in per- forming the operation, a sufficient covering