BLOOD-LETTING. 478 article it is proposed to consider the different inodes which may be employed for the abstrac- tion of blood, whether from the arterial, the venous, or the capillary system, to point out the effects of each of these different methods, the various circumstances under which they may be advantageously employed in the treat- ment of diseases, and likewise the best methods of performing the different operations for blood- letting. Blood-letting, or the abstraction of a portion of blood from the body, is one of the most powerful means which we possess for the cure and relief of disease, and has been employed as a therapeutic agent, since a very early pe- riod of the history of the healing art. The Egyptian physicians, we are told, were led to adopt it from observing the hippopotamus on particular occasions come out of the river, trample his gigantic feet against the sharp point of some broken reed, by which he lacerated the skin, and caused a copious bleeding. We read also of savage tribes, who, when afflicted with feverish disorders, cause a flow of blood by lacerating some parts of the skin with the sharp edges of broken shells. It is easy to imagine how mankind, even in a very rude state, must have been struck with the immediate relief of painful sensations in the head by the sponta- neous loss of some blood from the nose, and of disorders in the chest and abdomen being subdued by the coughing, vomiting, or purging of blood. No rational system for the employ- ment of blood-letting was however established until after the phenomena accompanying spon- taneous haemorrhages were noticed, the signal relief which they afford observed, and the mis- chievous effects of their suppression well un- derstood. The abstraction of blood has since been gradually adopted in the practice of me- dicine, and though various opinions have been at different periods entertained as to the cir- cumstances which indicate its use, and the extent to which it may be employed, yet its utility, w'hen judiciously resorted to, is univer- sally admitted. As the blood is the agent on which the action of the heart depends, alterations in its quantity modifies the action of the central organ of the circulation, and hence whenever the heart is unusually excited, as is the case in all the inflammatory diseases, accompanied with fever, the abstraction of a quantity of blood becomes a powerful means of subduing its movements. A similar effect of abstracting blood is pro- duced in local inflammation, wherein the action of the heart is not disturbed ; the diminution of the quantity of the blood in an inflamed part by diminishing the stimulus produced by that fluid, causes not only a temporary subsidence of the over-distension of the vessels, but checks their future increase, and thus subdues the dis- eased action of the vascular system in the affected part. The abstraction of blood from any part or organ where there is a simple congestion or plethora, affords also signal relief, by permit- ting the capillary system to contract and free itself from the surplus quantity of the sanguineous fluid. It is also had recourse to for the relief of some diseases, wherein changes have taken place in the qualities of the blood itself. The curative effects of blood-letting, what- ever be the explanation given of them, are strikingly exemplified by the beneficial influ- ence derived from spontaneous hcemorrhages. Indeed the most powerful means which we possess for the cure of diseases, produce their good effect by strictly imitating the processes which nature herself employs, or which are resorted to by the vis medicatrix natures. Sickness, vomiting, purging, perspiration, are each in their turn artificially produced with the view of subduing diseases, and are likewise those very means which are employed by the system itself to effect similar curative pro- cesses. Examples of the good effects derived from spontaneous heemotrkages, may be observed in several parts of the body. Many persons who have suffered from a congestion of blood in the head, are completely relieved by the escape of some blood from the surcharged ca- pillaries of the Schneiderian membrane (epi- staxis). Others are in the habit of losing, and that too at regular periods, a considerable quantity of blood from the rectum (the heemor- rhoidee flux), an event which seldom fails to re- lieve some disturbance of the health arising from congestion in the portal system. Spontaneous haemorrhages also take place from the bronchi (haemoptysis), and prove the means of removing congestions in the thoracic viscera. Blood too is frequently discharged by the bursting of varicose cutaneous veins, and such haemorrhages are always more or less efficacious in removing some internal malady. Even in malignant diseases, such as cancer and fungus haematodes, occasional haemorrhages, to which such affections are liable, though as in other spontaneous haemorrhage, the flow' of blood may sometimes be unnecessarily profuse, yet the depletion often has a salutary effect, relieving the congestion of the vascular system with w hich such tumours are so often accompa- nied. The same relief is also observed to take place from those haemorrhages which so fre- quently arise from sloughing ulcers, the flow of the blood subduing that violent inflammation which caused the sloughing of the soft parts. Beneficial effects likewise follow the secondary heemorrkage, which so frequently occurs after wounds inflicted, either accidentally or in the course of operations. Differences in the effects of abstracting arte- rial and venous blood. Blood may be ab- stracted either from the arterial (arteriotomy), the venous (phlebotomy), or the capillary sys- tems (topical blood-letting), and it is of much practical importance to consider what are the differences in the effects of these different modes of blood-letting, in order that our choice of any one of them in the treatment of diseases may be the more judiciously determined. It may be expected that the loss of a 10