ERYSIPELAS. 146 ally punctures made on anasarcal limbs, or made with instruments impregnated with putrid matter, venesection, bites of animals, stings of insects, the friction of coarse articles of clothing, blisters, setons, cauteries, vaccina- tion, insolation, the contact of two hot sub- stances, and all irritating local applications, such as rubefacient or rancid ointments, acrid animal and vegetable substances, &c. With respect to the ingesta, various aliments, salt, spiced, or smoked meats, stale or dried fish, shell fish, acrid vegetables, such as garlic and onions, and the abuse of spirituous liquors, have been assigned as causes of erysipelas; but it has not been shown that they produce it in preference to other diseases. Internal causes.—All constitutions and tem- peraments are indistinctively liable to con- tract erysipelas, and it is not satisfactorily proved that the bilious temperament is more subject to it than any other. No age is exempt from its attacks. Women are more subject to it than men ; but not, however, in the proportion of four to one, as Frank found it in the Institute of Pavia, when out of twenty erysipelatous patients, sixteen were women '. Out of twenty patients affected with erysipelas received into Professor Chomel’s clinical wards at La Charite, thirteen were women 2. In 630 cases of erysipelas, distri- buted by the Bureau Central to the various hospitals of Paris during the years 1830 and 1831, there were 326 females. In 43 cases of erysipelas observed by Louis 25 were women3. With regard to the hereditary predisposition to erysipelas little or nothing has been yet determined. Dr. Lepelletier 4, however, is acquainted with a family, residing in a healthy situation in the country, most of the members of which are affected every autumn or spring with erysipelas. Habit exerts an undoubted influence in reproduc- ing erysipelas, and one or more attacks fre- quently entails a remarkable predisposition to the recurrence of the disease, which then generally occupies the same seat. Tissot says, that when it thus occurs on the face, it generally attacks the same side, and he ob- serves that the eye of that side generally becomes weakened 5. Moral perturbations would seem to have an unequivocal influence in producing erysipelas. Fallopius, as Hoff- man informs us, relates the case of a woman, who used to be attacked with erysipelas of the nose, whenever she happened to get into a passion6. Joseph Frank mentions the case of a child only six months old that was attacked with erysipelas, in consequence of a fright he got in witnessing a quarrel that had taken place between his parents7. The same author writes that he saw in Lithuania numer- ous other instances of erysipelas brought on 1 Op. cit. 2 Op. cit. 3 Cliom. Op. cit. 4 Op. cit. 5 (Euvres Complets, vol. i. Avis au Peuple, chap, xix. Paris, 1809. 0 Medicinal Rationalis Systematica: vol. iii. De Fehrc Erysipelasca. 7 Prax. Med. Universe Proccepta, vol. iii. cap. vi. 1 by violent mental emotions. The develop- ment of erysipelas has been frequently' seen to coincide with the suppression of an accus- tomed evacuation, the catamenia1, or of a pa- thological or artificial habitual discharge, such as old ulcers, haemorrhoids, and setons. Symptomatology.—In the great majority of cases erysipelas is preceded by derangement of health, varying in duration from one to several days, and generally proportionate in violence to the gravity and extent of the impending eruption : thus in erysipelas con- fined to a limited portion of the face, the pre- monitory disturbance is generally obscure, or light, while in erysipelas of the entire head it is generally very serious. General uneasiness, spontaneous lassitude, transient irregular chills, sometimes amount- ing to shiverings or rigors, and often alternat- ing with unusual glows of heat, heaviness, cephalalgia, insomnia, or disturbed sleep, anorexia, thirst, pain or tenderness of the epigastrium, nausea, mucous or bilious vomit- ings, diarrhoea or constipation, and accelera- tion of the circulation, are the phenomena, which, variously modified and combined, an- nounce the invasion of erysipelas. Being however common to it and other diseases, they do not infallibly denote its irruption. Sometimes erysipelas is ushered in without any precursory symptoms. All uncertainty will be removed, and even the future seat of the eruption indicated, if, as frequently hap- pens, a painful tumefaction of the lymphatic ganglia manifests itself in conjunction with the general disturbance just mentioned. Galen adverts to this circumstance in a vague desultory way2. Its occurrence in the groin and axilla was adduced by Sydenham 3 and Hoffman4 in proof of the opinion they enter- tained, that erysipelas bore a close affinity to the plague. But Frank 5 and Bursieri6 were the first to signalize this occurrence in a more circumstantial and definite way. It is not however constant, especially in that form which supervenes at the decline of acute dis- ease or prolonged fever. This tumefaction always manifests itself in the ganglia apper- taining to the parts upon which the eruption is to take place, in the cervical ganglia under the jaw or behind the ears, in erysipelas of the face and scalp, and in the axillary or in- guinal, ganglia in the erysipelas of their re- spective extremities. “ Haud etiam probe memoria tenendum est, quod crebris observa- tionibus constitit, si erysipelas artubus inferi- oribus incubiturum sit, inguinis et femoris glandulas conglobatas, vasis cruralibus adsitas, antequam se exserat, leviter dolerc et intumes- cere consuevisse ; axillaris vero et cervicalis, si brachiis aut superioribus locis imrnineat7.” It is in erysipelas of the face that this circum- 1 .1. P. Frank, Op. cit. and Hoffman, Op. cit, 2 Op. cit. 3 Op. cit. 4 Op. cit. 5 Op. cit. 6 Institutionum Mcdicin® Practicae vol. ii. cap. 2. De Erysipclate. 7 Jo. Babt. Burscrius, Instit. Med. Pract. vol. ii. cap. 2.