39 ABSCESS. and popliteal regions, the sides of the neck. Irritation, arising in the cellular tissue, finds every condition favourable to its propagation, and thus is speedily extended; to prevent, therefore, those unlimited denudations, those suppurative dissections of parts, an early open- ing is absolutely indispensable. It is a matter of common remark, that an abscess is slow in pointing externally in proportion to the ex- tent of loose cellular structure in which it is allowed to fuse unopposed. These cases re- quire, in a special manner, to be treated by soothing applications and local depletion. In so far the conduct of the surgeon is easi- ly dictated ; but the indications for early open- ing may be in the highest degree imperative, while the symptoms are so obscure as to give rise to considerable embarrassment. We have often seen experienced practitioners he- sitate in these circumstances, and not unfre- quently, upon a too hasty decision, open tu- mours in which not a drop of pus could be de- tected. The obscurity in such instances may depend, as has been already stated, upon the matter being deeply-seated, and masked by unyielding aponeurosis, and great circumspec- tion and tact are necessary to enable us to form a right judgment; account should be taken of the degree of the preceding inflam- mation, the functions that may have been disturbed, as connected either with the sup- posed seat of the matter, or as appertaining to the constitutional phenomena characteristic of its formation, the doughy condition of the parts, the ill circumscribed state of the tumour, and the fluctuation itself, however obscure, before the incision of the parts is made. These cases occur most commonly in the inter- stices of the muscles of the thigh, the arm, the fore-arm, the sole of the foot, and in the ten- dinous sheaths (see Thecal Inflammation) ; the importance of limiting the ravages, perhaps irreparable, which the pus would make if it remained undiscovered, is sufficiently great to challenge the highest and most careful exer- cise of patience, tact, and skill the surgeon can bring to the consideration of the case. As soon as the anterior signs, the cellular empatement, and a feeling of fluctuation, though obscure, are all present, he is justified in making his incisions, to prevent the more serious mischief which might arise from delay, although the depth of the matter from the surface may be considerable. Another motive for the early, and even pre- mature opening of an abscess, will be found in the case where its progress is attended with intolerable pain, great constitutional disturb- ance, and even convulsions, loss of appetite, sleep, &c., and when, from the nature of the parts abounding with nerves and blood-vessels in connexion with aponeurosis and tendinous sheaths, or the violence of the inflammation, there is excessive tension and danger of stran- gulation of blood-vessels and nerves, and gan- grene (see Anthrax) ; or when the compres- sion of large vessels, such as the jugular veins, threatens suffocation, or cerebral conges- tion. In such circumstances the chief consi- deration is to shield the patient from peril, whatever may be the inopportunity of laying open the collection, as regards the tumour it- self ; as to wait for the maturation of it might be tantamount to sacrificing the patient’s life. In such cases, opening a way for the matter will not be sufficient; the dangerous tension of the parts must be relieved by free incisions. Much caution is also requisite in the treat- ment of abscess, formed in visceral organs, contained in the natural cavities of the body, which points externally; for if it be an object to evacuate the pus, it is still more important to prevent the escape of the matter into the cavity in which the suppurating organ is con- tained ; an event which can only be insured by deferring the evacuation until the adhesions, which cut off the communication with the se- rous cavity, are fully established. The evi- dences of this adhesion will be found in the active sympathy of the skin with the suppu- rating organ ; it becomes painful, hot, tense, red, and distended, and its centre points. In general, it may be laid down, that chro- nic abscesses, with thickened walls, should be opened when, in spite of the previous treat- ment, they show a disposition to extend; cure by the absorption can no longer be expected, the matter must be evacuated, and the sooner it is done the better. The opening of congestive or symptomatic abscess does not exactly fall under this gene- ral rule. We have said already, that the fatal issue in such cases is in general hastened by the opening, and the admission of air into the cavity of the abscess ; at all events, the for- midable character of the symptoms and rapi- dity of their march most commonly date from that period. It is, therefore, desirable, while general treatment is directed to the cause of the disease, that the period of opening should be put off as long as possible. But while we seek to secure this advantage, we must be mindful that we do not obtain it at too great a sacrifice. We should not, through dread of the consequences of opening, defer it until the pus has burrowed to a great distance, and the covering of the abscess becomes so thin, as to threaten an extensive rupture. In this case, opening does not mean entire evacuation. Dupuytren prefers even an early opening, to allowing an unlimited extension of the abscess, and states, on the authority of numerous cases, that an opening may be made in the early stage without any great risk of serious conse- quences : the opening after some time be- comes fistulous, and furnishes a favourable exit for the pus and osseous debris. But the chances of so favourable an issue depend much on the good state of the patient’s bodily health, the integrity of the strength and appetite, and the smallness of volume of the abscess. When he used to treat symptomatic abs- cess in this manner, he always insisted, in a special manner, that there should be no sus- pension of the means directed to the cure of the primitive lesion of the vertebrae, or articu- lations ; and this, perhaps, will go far to ac- count for the successes he speaks of.