1G0 ERYSIPELAS. been brought into more general practice in England and at an earlier period of the dis- ease, by Messrs. Copland, Hutchisson and Lawrence. The latter gentleman has given them to an extent which I have known many able and bold surgeons to reprove and none to imitate. “ These incisions,” writes Mr. Hutchisson, “ may be made about an inch and a half in length, from two to four inches apart, and varied in number from four to eighteen ac- cording to the extent of surface the disease is found to occupy “ Since this multipli- city of cuts,” adds Mr. Lawrence, “ must be painful and alarming, it is important to know, as I have found by repeated experience, that a single incision carried through the middle of the inflamed part, in a direction parallel to the long axis of the limb, is quite sufficient1 2.” These gentlemen recommend, or at least sug- gest, the propriety of having recourse to in- cisions at once on the onset of the disease, to arrest its progress and prevent suppuration and sloughing. This is, no doubt, a question of great importance, and the solution of which will probably long remain a disputed point. Why, it may be asked, have recourse to re- medies, that are far from being always unat- tended with inconvenience, against results that are yet purely problematical ? An in- considerate zeal, as Rayer justly observes, should not induce us to sear an entire limb, when other means may effect the cure 3. In France incisions are reserved to relieve strangulation, prevent the extension of puru- lent inflammation, and give issue to morbid products. As we shall have to recur to this question in the treatment of phlegmonous erysipelas, I here make but a general re- view' of the different local therapeutical means, reserving the exposition of their special ap- plications for the treatment of those varie- ties of the disease to which they are respect- ively appropriate. Punctures made with a lancet on the af- fected part, may be considered as a modifica- tion of the method by incisions ; but they are of much more general application, being used in the simple as well as the phlegmonous forms of the disease. Dr. Lassis, in a letter of 1832, claims the priority of this method for his uncle, who he says was in the habit of employing it for the preceding fifteen years 4. Dr. Dobson, however, would seem to have a prior title, as he mentions in his letter to Mr. Lawrence of February, 1828, having adopted it more than a dozen years previously. “ With regard to the nature of erysipelas,” writes Dr. Dobson, “ in which I use the punctures, I answer in all cases, simple, traumatic, or phleg- monous : the number of punctures I make at one time varies according to the extent of the disease, but is rarely under ten and seldom exceeding fifty ; the depth and extent of each puncture vary also according to circumstances, 1 Op. cit. 5 Op. cit. 3 Op. cit. 4 Med.-Chirurg. Transact, of London, vol. xiv. being made deeper when the parts are more tumid, but more superficial when the tume- faction is not so great ; from two to four tenths of an inch may however be considered the proper answer to that part of your in- quiry. I repeat the punctures to the number and extent required, mostly twice a day, and often in bad cases three or four times in the twenty-four hours ; and in the whole course of this practice, which has been resorted to in several hundred cases, having adopted it more than a dozen years ago, I have never seen any bad consequence resulting from its em- ployment. I use these punctures in every part of the scalp, or face, body, or extremities, and never more freely than about the eye- lids, and I have often found a patient with both eyes closed, which, by freely puncturing, he has been able to open in a few minutes ; and what will be found not less true, than it may appear surprising, these punctures mostly heal in a few hours, and never entail any material marks upon the patient Dr. Bright extends the number of these punctures to several hundreds or even thousands, which he repeats two or three times in the twenty- four hours if there be much redness and ten- sion, and promotes the effusion of blood by subsequently sponging the part with warm water2. Notwithstanding the general in- nocuity of punctures, they should be made cautiously upon the face and neck on children and in young persons of very lymphatic con- stitutions. At that period of life and in those constitutions, punctures and leech-bites often suppurate and leave indelible traces, that neither parents nor patients forgive. I am acquainted with a child who was treated by punctures for an erysipelas of the face, and, although some years have elapsed, he has since and will ever retain the marks of the cicatrices, accompanied with an injurious and disfiguring ectropium. Dr. Poirson has substituted cupping instead of those punctures, and says he has had the greatest success with this means, especially in the phlegmonous form of the disease 3. The application of leeches to the inflamed surface is of much more general use in this country. It should, however, be borne in mind, as Dr. Lisfranc so practically illustrates, that applied in small numbers their action is derivative and even rubefacient, and in this sense they are advantageously used by Dr. Lisfranc to revive the torpor of white-swel- ling ; while used in large numbers (thirty, forty, fifty and more), they become more exclusively antiphlogistic, and often without the debilitation that ensues after general de- pletion. Compression, in moderating the afflux of blood to a part, and thus diminishing accidents supposed to be caused by its superabundance or its morbid qualities, and in imparting tone * Dobson, Loc. cit. a Gazette Med. An. 1832. Reports of Med. Cases, &c. 3 Lancette Franchise, 1831. tome v. no. 79. G