508 BRONCHOTOMY. book, that scarification is to be employed for the relief of angina, says, “ Quibus si non fuerit atger adjutus, scire licet a malo victum esse.” Pliny in the third chapter of the twenty- sixth book of his “Historia Naturalis,” written between A.D. 23 and 79, and the Latin Editio Princeps of which was printed in Venice in 1469, says, “ In quibusdam morbis medendi cruciatus detraxit, ut inanginis, quas curabant in fauces organo demisso.” A.D. 131—201. Galen is the first who directly mentions the opening of the air-tube, and he evidently regards Asclepiades as the inventor of the practice, stating: “ Ascle- piades ultimum auxilium posuit, in iis qui maxime suffocantur, laryngem incidere Caelius Aurelianus speaks slightingly of the operation in these terms, “ Est etiam fabulosa arteria ob respirationem divisura, quam laryn- gotomiam vocant, et quae a nullo sit antiquo- rum tradita, sed caduca atque temeraria Asclepiadis inventione affirmata2.” Aretaeus in the seventh chapter of the first book of his work, “ De Morbis acutis et diu- turnis, eorumque curatione,” says, “ Quicum- que strangulationem ab angina verentes, quo luxius spiritus duceretur, arteriam secuerunt, non sane experimento rem comprobasse vi- dentur.” He thought that inflammation would be excited by the operation, and that even if strangulation were thus warded off,' the parts being cartilaginous would not heal. There has been a good deal of controversy as to the time at which Aretaeus wrote. The Editio Princeps of the original Greek was published in Paris in 1554. Oribasius, who was physician to Julian the Apostate, and wrote his Collections about the year 360, speaks of the operation, and some cases to which it was applicable. Paulus ^Egineta describes the operation after Antyllus, an author whose remaining works are very scarce. He states that the practice is useless where the lungs are affected; but when the inflammation lies about the throat and tonsils, the experiment is very rational, to prevent the danger of suffocation. He says Antyllus knew when the trachea was opened by the rushing out of the air, and the loss of voice. There is a long passage to this effect in the thirty-third chapter of the sixth book of his “ De Re Medica,” the best edition of which was published in Venice in 1528. Paulus is placed in most biographical dictionaries in the fourth century ; but Abulpharagius, who, ac- cording to Friend, has left the most accurate history of those times, places him in the reign of Heraclius, about the year 621. Avicenna3 recommends the employment of bronchotomy in angina, and shows the mode of its application. A.D. 980—1036. Avenzoar recommends bronchotomy in cases of desperate quinsy. He describes it as a difficult operation, which he had never seen 1 In Medico, cap. xiii. edit. Chart, tom. ii. p. 379. 2 I)c Acut. Morb. lib. iii.cap. iv. 'Lib. iii, sec. 9, cap. 11. performed, but states that he opened the tra- chea of a goat, and dressed the wound with honey-water, which soon effected a cure. He was an Arabian, and wrote towards the close of the eleventh century. Albucasis, a celebrated Arabian surgeon, describes the operation after the manner of Paulus. He says he never saw it done, but docs not regard it as dangerous, because he saw a woman who opened the windpipe in an endea- vour to commit suicide, but the blood-vessels being uninjured he soon cured her. He lived about the year 1085, and his works were col- lected and published in Venice in the year 1500, under the title “ Chirurgia, seu do Methodo medendi per Chirurgiam.” In the forty-third section of the second book, headed “ De incisione laryngis, ob tumorem in interne gutture ortum,” he says, “ Illorum vero om- nium quibus est tumor in ore calidus, aut in gutture, aut amygdalis, quum non sit morbus in fistula ipsa, necesse est uti laryngis sectione, ad exitium a suffoeatione evitandum.” In 1363 Gui de Chauliac speaks of bronch- otomy, especially referring to Avicenna. He says, “ cynanches vehementiores fiunt, et non valent medicinse, et creditur quod perditio futura sit, illud per quod speratur evasio est scissio cannae1.” In 1541 the celebrated commentaries of Antonius Musa Brasavolus, a distinguished physician at Ferrara, were published, under the title “ Commentarii et Annotationes in viii libros Aphorismorum Hippocratis et Ga- leni.” In the commentary on the fourth book of Hippocrates he states, that he “ pro- priis manibus” opened the trachea in a patient on the point of death from quinsy, and thus saved life. He states also, that he had done it in other cases with similar success, as docs Benivenius2. The subject of bronchotomy was very well treated by Gulielmus de Saliceto in his Chi- rurgia, published at Venice in the year 1546. In 1561 the first edition of the works of Am- brose Pare was printed. The twenty-ninth chapter of the ninth book contains accounts of three cases where persons recovered after severe wounds of the trachea. It was not till these cases, and others by Nicolaus Floren- tinus, and Jacotius, were fully known, that the Hippocratic notion of cartilage being incapable of uniting was completely overcome. In the year 1600 Casserius of Placentia published his work, “ De vocis auditusque organis Historia Anatomica, &c.” The twen- tieth chapter of the first book is entitled “ De Laryngotomia.” He treats the subject rather fully, and describes the steps of the operation, which are shown in his twenty-second plate. Thomas Fienus, professor of medicine at Louvain, and physician to the Elector of Ba- varia, wrote his work on the principal contro- versies of surgery in 1602. In his fourth book he describes the section of the trachea, 1 Lib. iii. tract, i. cap. 11. in the Latin edition of his work, published at Venice in 1G08. 2 De Abdit. Morb. cap. 88.