R 2 ANEURISM. 214t The needle ought not to be so thick as those usually employed ; and whilst its point should not be so sharp as to endanger a wound of the artery, it ought not to be so large or so blunt as to prevent it being easily slipped round the vessel. Neither should the eye of the needle be too near the point, so that when the ligature is in it, the needle may not be interrupted in passing through the loose cellular membrane between the artery and its sheath. The best ligature which can be employed is the common silk thread used by dentists, and a noose formed by a single knot is to be firmly drawn, guarding against pulling it so tightly as to lacerate the cellular coat of the artery. Due care should bo taken before tying the ligature, that nothing be included in the noose but the denuded artery, and that the coats of the vessel are in a healthy con- dition ; and as it is of great importance, to di- minish the risk of consecutive haemorrhage, that a sufficient portion of the vessel be left between the ligature and the first inosculating branch, it is safer to tie the vessel at the far- thest point which is denuded, than at that nearest the heart, by which means a larger space will be left in the vessel for the forma- tion of an internal coagulum. The ligature having been tied, the ends of the thread may be either left in the wound, or one of them may be cut off, or both may be removed close to the knot. As it is essential for the success of this operation, that the wound be speedily healed, in order that the soft parts contiguous to the vessel may be consolidated, the small ligature is decidedly preferable, its presence causing less irritation, and, for this same rea- son, cutting off one of the threads will still further diminish the irritation arising from the presence of an extraneous body within the wound. (Veitch.) In order still further to remove all causes of irritation in the wound, both ends of the ligature have been cut off, and this is, perhaps, all things being considered, the most prefer- able mode. When nothing remains in the wound but the noose on the artery, all the soft parts which had been necessarily divided in order to reach the vessel and pass the li- gature round it, may be brought into close contact and retained in their natural posi- tion ; so that, except the very limited spot where the noose of the ligature remains, the whole of the wound will be readily united by adhesion; and it is found from experience that the noose of the thread is ultimately dis- charged by an orifice formed in the cicatrix. (See Ligature.) The separation of the noose takes place at very different periods after the operation, according to the kind of ligature employed, the force with which it has been tightened, and the degree of local excitement that follows its application ; but no further degree of inflammation and sup- puration supervenes than what is necessary for the displacement and discharge of the ligature, and it is of advantage that the liga- ture should not be separated until the canal of the artery be permanently obliterated. The consecutive treatment. — The wound should be dressed in the most simple manner ; all the blood on its surface ought to be care- fully removed, and the divided parts ought not to be brought together until the bleeding has completely ceased. The edges of the wound are then to be kept in contact by short strips of adhesive plaster, either with or without a few stitches ; and a bandage, when the operation has been performed on one of the limbs, may be applied, but only with a very moderate degree of firmness,—or bandages may be dispensed with altogether. All circumstances being favourable, the whole of the wound will heal by adhesion, scarcely any after-dressing being necessary ; and the noose of the ligature will be discharged in fif- teen, twenty, or sometimes a greater number of days, unattended with any pain or incon- venience. A series of changes take place in the vas- cular system, immediately on the application of the ligature, whether placed on the cardiac or on the capillary side of the aneurism, or on one of the branches of the diseased artery. The pulsations in the tumour either cease altoge- ther, or a thrill more or less distinct may be perceived, and its bulk diminishes in propor- tion to the thinness of the walls of the sac. But as I have already explained (see Ana- stomosis), the circulation in the trunk of an artery is no sooner interrupted, than the ana- stomosing branches increase in size, to supply those parts with blood which had been nour- ished by the obstructed vessel. Hence, im- mediately after the application of the ligature, the inosculating vessels beat with an increased impulse, and, if situated near the surface, they may be seen to enlarge, as is well illustrated in the branches of the temporal and occipital arteries, when the trunk of the carotid is ob- structed by a ligature. A like diminution in the bulk of an aneu- rismal tumour is produced when the ligature is placed on its capillary side, or when only one of the branches of the aneurismal artery has been secured. In all cases where either of these modes of operating have been em- ployed, it has been distinctly noticed, that a very considerable diminution in the bulk of the tumour took place immediately after the liga- ture had been applied on the diseased vessel. When the patient has been subjected to a rigid system of preparation before the opera- tion, it may be anticipated that no circum- stance will ensue to interrupt the progress of the cure, the operation causing little or no disturbance of the general system, the tumour gradually becoming consolidated, and the limb being properly nourished by the enlargement of the collateral vessels. Until such a favour- able result of the operation is produced, it is of primary importance, not only that the limb but that the whole frame should be kept in a state of perfect repose ; the strictest atten- tion should likewise be paid to regulate the