AMPUTATION. 133 time, such as the placing of a seton or blister, be believed by the patient to be intended to act against the disease requiring amputation, and not to prepare him for the operation. The body should be prepared by the best measures time and the circumstances of the case admit of; they should be such as are most likely to establish and preserve a good and calm state of the principal functions. In general the quantity of food should be diminished a good deal, but not changed to the extent recommended by the French, who go too far in this repect, while the English perhaps do not go far enough. There is a just medium to be observed. More is certainly to be feared from too much fulness, improperly called strength, than from too much emptiness. The digestive organs should have something to do, but their work ought to be light : the food should be simple, easy of digestion, and of a nature to procure a mo- tion once in twenty-four hours. The circu- lating system should not be too full ; but as some blood must be lost during the opera- tion, and as the quantity can be increased by allowing the small vessels to bleed for a certain time before the ligatures are applied, preparatory blood-letting is seldom or never necessary. Besides, it might not be always safe, as the precise quantity of blood lost during the operation cannot always be fore- seen or regulated, although we believe sur- geons might regulate it better than they do, it they attended more to this matter, which, at present, they neglect to an unjustifiable degree. As to the more immediate preparations, it is requisite to see that the bowels act within at least eight or ten hours of the time for operating. Should they not act naturally, it will be proper to procure a motion by an enema. We do not think the habit of purg- ing patients, prior to great operations, a good one : surely it cannot be right to throw im- portant organs into a state of commotion at such a time. No food should be put upon the stomach within three or four hours of the time fixed for the operation. According to the state and temperament of the patient, either some, mild, agreeable antispasmodic or stimu- lant may be administered. It was formerly recommended to employ means with a view to render the patient less susceptible of pain. Guy de Chauliac and his contemporaries gave opium internally, and to a certain extent it is still employed by some modern surgeons. Theodorus proposed subjecting the olfactory nerves to the influence of narcotics, by al- lowing the patient to smell of a sponge steeped in a solution of opium or henbane; and it has been recently pretended that it is advantageous for the patient to inspire some narcotic gas. These measures are all either useless or pernicious. The plan of tying a strap tightly round the limb, above the place ot amputating, is perhaps less injurious and has decidedly some effect; but the pressure is equally efficient, and can be made much better and without the inconvenience of ar- resting the venous circulation and interfering with the muscular contraction, by the hands of assistants. It is proper to select a room and a bed or table prior to the operation. A room adjoin- ing that in which the patient is to sleep should be preferred ; as it is not desirable he should have to be carried far, or that his sleeping-room should be encumbered with the divers preparations necessary for the operation. It ought to have a good light, opposite to which the patient can be placed ; there should be at hand cold water, wine, vinegar, and sal volatile. A bed, or table covered with a mattrass, blankets, and sheets, is used for amputations performed on the ab- dominal limbs, and sometimes for those of the thoracic limbs. It should be firm, of a convenient height, and not more than three feet wide, so that the patient may be closely approached on either side. Apparatus necessary for performing amputa- tion and for dressing the stump.—This should always be kept ready in Hospitals; and every surgeon liable to be called upon to amputate without loss of time ought to have it at hand. The instruments necessary for dividing the parts should be placed on one tray, and on another, whatever is necessary for tying the vessels and dressing the stump; or, if both sets of objects are placed on the same tray, it should have a partition to separate one from the other. They should be covered over with a napkin or a piece of linen or cloth, that the patient, on whom their appearance might make a disagreeable or untoward im- pression, may not see them. And the sur- geon or dresser who has to lay them out should recollect the precise number of them, because he can then, in a few moments, (the time necessary for counting them,) ascertain if the apparatus is complete. To be the more certain, however, he should not neglect to recapitulate the divers steps of the opera- tion, taking up each instrument in the order in which it is required and putting it down again; the operator ought to do the same im- mediately before he begins the amputation, in order to guard against any omission, which might be of serious consequence. Dupuytren never neglected these precautions. The in- struments which should be laid out for am- putating may be enumerated as follows : 1. A tourniquet, although many surgeons dispense with it and with any similar in- strument, substituting for it pressure made by the hand of an assistant. 2. Two or three amputating knives and catlings of vari- ous dimensions. 3. Two straight-edged bistou- ries or small knives, one pointed, and one blunt- edged, and one convex edged knife. 4. A retractor. 5. Two saws, one large with two or three extra blades; the other small and fine enough to cut oft’ a small splinter of bone. 6. A pair of bone nippers. The most conve- nient amputating knives are those recom- mended by Lassus and adopted by Velpeau :