FISTULA, INTESTINAL. 212 closure of the external wound, or to obviate the evils resulting from it.—The symptoms indi- cating premature contraction of the wound, are such as may be attributed to partial or complete obstruction of the bowels ; namely, scanty or suppressed evacuations, tension and pain in the abdomen, eructations, and vomit- ing. These symptoms may be slight at first, and only occasional ; they may become more intense and frequent, and if not relieved may be followed by hiccup, intermittent pulse, prostration, and death. Under these circum- stances, perforation of the bowel, and feculent effusion into the peritoneum, will generally be observed on dissection. On the first occurrence of symptoms indicating obstruction, provided they can be fairly attributed to the undue contraction of the external wound, attempts should be made to dilate it, so as to allow of the introduction of a flexible catheter into the bowel, whereby a portion of its liquid contents may be extracted. Clysters and purgatives may also sometimes be of use ; but, from the difficulty of calculating pre- cisely upon the effect of the latter, and the possibility that the impulse given by them to the feces may tend to produce laceration of the intestine, and effusion into the peritoneum, they should only be administered with the greatest caution, and ought not to be employed to the exclusion of such remedies as promote an early and free exit of the intestinal contents by the wound. Relief having been obtained by the evacu- ation of liquid matter from the bowel, by means of the elastic tube, time is allowed for the more gradual and complete dilatation of the opening. Bougies, sponge tents, and the instrument constructed by Mr. Weiss for di- lating the female urethra, may all be found efficient aids to the surgeon. When, how- ever, the symptoms are intense, and the abnormal opening is contracted to a small tube, it becomes necessary to lay open the fistulous tube as far as the membranous cavity. This mode of proceeding is sanctioned by the suc- cessful practice of Renaud. His patient, after the evacuations had become scanty and diffi- cult, suffered from a fixed pain in the groin, attended with evident swelling above the cica- trix, vomiting, small pulse, and cold sweats. No relief having been obtained from bleed- ings, emollient poultices, and clysters, an inci- sion was made into the cicatrix and abdominal muscles ; and the membranous cavity embracing the two apertures of the intestine was thereby laid open. Fluid feculent matter was freely discharged, and a ball as large as a nut, consist- ing of indurated feculent matter with a plum- stone for its nucleus, was extracted. Two days afterwards the patient took a purgative, which produced its effect only by the wound. On the sixth day the excretions by the natural passage appeared, and on the twenty-first day the wound was cicatrized. Infiltration of feculent matter beneath the integuments requires early and free incision. SLcth Indication. To close the external open- ing.—This is the last curative indication, and often the most difficult which the surgeon has to fulfil ; but before he attempts it, lie ought to be assured that the continuity of the intes- tinal canal is sufficientl}' restored, to allow of the safe closure of the opening. In general, when the proper time arrives for the closure of the wound, nature anticipates the surgeon’s work ; but when this part of the restorative process fails, and there exists a free passage for the alimentary matters by the natural route, the surgeon is justified in interfering. Various means for accomplishing the closure of the wound have been employed with moro or less success, as pressure, caustic, suture, autoplasty, and the cutaneous plug. In employing pressure, the principal object is to prevent entirely the discharges from tra- versing the external wound. When this is accomplished the wound generally exhibits a greater tendency to contract and cicatrize. Care must be taken that the pressure be not so concentrated or forcible as to compress the membranous cavity, and thereby obstruct the course of the feces, and counteract the de- sired object. The pressure, to be successful, should, in the first instance, be effected through the medium of a broad and flat surface. Afterwards a greater concentration of it may be adopted by means of graduated compresses ; but the effects of such attempts must be care- fully watched ; and if the slightest indication of obstruction occur, the flat compress must be resumed, or the pressure for a time entirely discontinued. During the treatment, confine- ment to bed should be insisted upon. The usual mode of applying pressure is by means of an elastic truss. Mr. Hey' employed a linen compress and bandage, over which was placed a two-ounce weight, and after- wards a weight of four ounces. When the fistulous canal has assumed the character of a cicatrized surface, it has been sometimes advantageous to produce a granulating sore, by caustic, cautery, or the knife, preparatory to the steady adoption of the treatment by pressure. But all these means, however well devised and practised, will, in many instances, fail to produce the desired effect. Attempts have repeatedly been made in obstinate cases b}r Cruikshank2, Sir A. Coo- per 3, Dupuytren, and others, to close fecal fistulas by suture, but unfortunately without success. Velpeau made several attempts in the same subject to accomplish this object by autoplasty, but was unsuccessful in them all. He after- wards employed the cutaneous plug, which had succeeded in two cases of laryngeal fistula. He took a portion of skin from the side, doubled it on its external or cuticular surface, and pushed it into the opening, fixing it there 1 Practical Observations in Surgery. Second edition, p. 225. 2 Sir A. Cooper on Hernia. Second edition, part i. p. 55. 3 Ibid.