663 CANCER. have furnished materials for localization of the disease. When opportunities occur for making a post-mortem examination, in this stage of their progress, of tumours originating from the internal surface of the dura mater, these productions are in almost every instance found non-adherent to the substance of the brain ; in some cases there is no adhesion visible between the cerebral and parietal arachnoid; in others these layers and the pia mater are firmly united, or false mem- branes present themselves in the cavity of the serous sac'. Some one or more of the changes already referred to are discovered in the brain, when irritation of that viscus has been the immediate cause of death. But when, instead of growing inwards, can- cer of the internal surface of the dura mater presses forcibly on the cranial substance, ab- sorption and perforation, as we have already mentioned, follow. The characters of the protruding mass and of the perforation de- serve notice. In one of Cruveilhier’s cases, in which a distinct elevation was discovered under the scalp, (but not till after the patient’s death,) this was found to form a spongy mass, consisting of a dense fibrous lamina, and a multitude of osseous vegetations mingled with softened matter. The skull was widely perforated ; the internal table destroyed and replaced by encephaloid pulp to a considerable extent round the opening, the external forming a thin elastic scale within the same limits. Here the cancerous nature of the malady might almost be pre- dicated with certainty, if the fact of perfora- tion were established; but the protrusion might easily be mistaken for a fungus from the external surface of the dura mater—an error committed in the very instance referred to. We are not aware of any means by which the distinction could be made in the living subject : the mode of destruction of the bone is in both instances subject to the same variation. The cranial substance may either soften from carcinomatous infiltration ; the internal table and diploe may alone be destroyed ; or in addition the external may be rarified and cribriform from numerous minute perforations ; or, as is the most com- mon case, gradual absorption is effected in the same manner as in the case of post- osseous aneurism. From the direction and manner in which the opening is formed, it naturally follows that this should be much narrower externally than internally, the tables of the bone appearing bevelled off from with- out inwards. (See Fig. 166.) The edge of the outer table is usually thin, sharp, and uneven. While the process of destruction goes forward, rugged and irregular spiculated 1 Unless as a consequence of the presence of a tu- mour, such lesions of the arachnoid are scarcely evar met with. M. Louis (Rech. sur le Gastro-Enterite, t. i. p. 382. 1829,) examined the brains of 500 subjects without discovering one example of cellular adhesion of that membrane. Fig. 166. Fiff.166.—Internal view ofthecranialbones perforated by an encephaloid groivth springing from the internal surface of the dura mater : a, bony detritus and cancer- ous matter adhering in part to the external surface of the dura mater; b, perforation. The bevelling off the substance of the cranium round the perforation is distinctly shown. bony vegetations, as shown in Fig. 167, some- times form on the external surface of the Fig. 167. Fig. 167.—External view of the same, a,a. Parietal bones ; h, frontal ditto. ; c, osseous spiculce ; d, perfora- tion.. (After Cruveilhier.) cranium. However compact the bony tissue may be, it is incapable of resisting this per- forative process : M. Velpeau quotes the Thesis of M. Thibault' as supplying cases in which cancerous growths forced their way through the petrous process into the meatus externus. In cases where the walls of the nares have been perforated, epistaxis has almost constantly been noted. i No. 133, Paris, 1816.