26 EAR, AND HEARING, DISEASES OF. by the screw for that purpose. The patient is seated on a chair. The operator having heated and oiled the catheter (mucilage of gum does very well, and has not the nauseous smell of oil), and blown through it to dispel any drop of oil or mucilage in its interior, holds it between the thumb and fore and mid- dle fingers, close over its funnel-shaped dila- tation, in such a manner that the ring, and, consequently, its concavity are downmost. The right hand may be used, whether the right or the left Eustachian tube is to be ope- rated on, but whoever has sufficient command over his left hand, will find it more convenient to use it when the left Eustachian tube is the subject of operation. With the concavity of the instrument downwards then, and rather somewhat outwards than inwards, the surgeon introduces the beak into the lower meatus of the nose, and quickly, but cautiously and de- licately, runs it along the bottom of that mea- tus to the depth of about three inches. No force is to be used ; and if there be any impe- diment which cannot be avoided by inclining the beak of the catheter somewhat more out- wards, and other manoeuvres not easy to de- scribe, the instrument is to be withdrawn and a smaller one tried. The instrument being passed into the nostril to the depth of about three inches, its beak is to be gradually turned from below outwards and upwards by rotating the body of the instrument round its axis, the surgeon at the same time pushing it gently on, and attending most particularly to the sensations communicated to the points of his fingers. By such manipulation the beak of the instrument is generally arrested oy the prominent posterior lip of the mouth of the Eustachian tube, and it readily slips in. If the instrument be directly downwards, the whole amount of rotation required is some- what more than a quarter round its axis, the ring, therefore, when the instrument is fairly lodged in the Eustachian tube, is directed outwards and upwards. The practised hand of the operator tells him that the instrument is fairly lodged, and this is corroborated by the absence of uneasiness to the patient. The forceps of the frontlet is now to be turned down and made to grasp the catheter, imme- diately in front of the point of the nose, by turning the screw which approximates its two arms. The ball and socket joint is then to be screwed tight. The catheter is thus fixed, and the patient may not only move the head freely, but even speak and swallow without trouble. Sneezing seldom takes place during the introduction of the instrument into the nose. The surgeon now proceeds to ascertain the state of the Eustachian tube and cavity of the tympanum. He may first blow into the cathe- ter simply with his own mouth. The way in which he feels the air issue from his rnouth, what sounds he can hear at the distance at which his ear is from that of the patient, and the account which the patient himself gives of the sensation he experiences when the sur- geon blows, are all circumstances from which the experienced surgeon may draw valuable and, in many cases, sufficient information. In- stead of blowing with the mouth, and as yield- ing a stronger stream of air, Deleau’s large caoutchouc bag with bellows sides may be used. If greater precision be required in the examination, the surgeon applies his ear to that of the patient, while a more continuous stream of air, the regulation of which is com- pletely under the controul of the surgeon, is sent in. For this purpose the air is collected by compression in a machine, which consists essentially of a forcing-pump, a a, fig. 196, and a receiver, b b b; the latter provided with a stop-cock for the issue of the air. The an- nexed is a plan of the section of such an in- strument, eight times below the proper size, Fig. 196. made by Mr. Ross, optician, in London, of the general dimensions recommended by Kramer. The dimensions of the forcing- pump and of the receiver being in a proper proportion to each other, and the piston be- ing moved by a pump-handle, very little ex- ertion is required to accumulate a sufficient quantity of air. The stream of air is con- ducted from the air-press into the catheter by means of a flexible tube adapted to the stop- cock. As air expanding from a state of com- pression falls in temperature, Deleau, fearing that the coldness of the air might be injurious, has so contrived his apparatus that the air may be heated by a spirit-lamp placed under- neath. Here, in London, very great dread has been expressed for the supposed coldness of the air, which indeed by some has been considered sufficient to account for the sud- den death under the operation which occurred sometime ago. It is quite true that air ex- panding from a state of compression falls in temperature, as it rises in temperature when compressed. It is also quite true, for it may be proved by the thermometer, that the stream of air immediately as it issues from the air-press is below the temperature of the sur-