ALVINE CONCRETION. 67 tion of these, I am inclined to suppose that the greater part of them had been formed originally within the gall-bladder, or biliary ducts, and had passed afterwards into the in- testinal canal. He has described very accurately the exter- nal characters, and also the internal structure of biliary calculi. He observes, speaking of those calculi found in the intestinal canal, “ Interna substantia meros ostendebat circulos striis intersectos and in another passage he adds, “ Interius ex circumjectis stratis com- pactos, et propius centrum ex striis radiatim pergentibus quas inter disjectse erant albae splendentesque particulae.” He adds, “ Facile pro biliariis habeas.” Lieutaud of Paris has de- scribed, in his Historia Anatomico-Medica, nine cases taken from other authors, in which what he calls lapides were found in the sto- mach ; and, in the 77th page of the same vo- lume, nine cases, also borrowed, in which la- pides were found in the intestinal canal. Por- tal, from the manner in which he has expressed himself in the fifth volume of his Anatomie Medicale, seems to have met with only one example of an alvine concretion within the stomach, and only one case of a concretion within the intestines, which he observes was bileuse. In the German Ephemerides, several cases are described, in which what are called calculi were found within different parts of the ali- mentary canal'. Haller has not described a single case in his Opuscula Pathologica. Dr. Baillie, in his Morbid Anatomy of the Human Body, says of calculi in the stomach, “ they have never come under my observation, and are to be reckoned very uncommon1 2and he adds3, “ Calculous matter has sometimes been known to be accumulated in some part of the cavity of the intestinal canal, especially in the great intestine ; but this has not come under my own observation, and, at least in the human subject, is a very rare occurrence.” And in that very rich repository, the Museum of the Royal College of Surgeons of London, of which a catalogue has been lately published, there is but one specimen of an intestinal concretion, which was taken from a horse. In the Lithologia of Martin Schurig, pub- lished at Leipsic, there are only three or four cases of calculi in the alimentary canal men- tioned ; but he quotes from many other authors. He appears to me to have arranged under one head extraneous bodies that have been swal- lowed, and alvine concretions ; for he names some of those substances which have been passed by stool, or been found within the in- testines, silices4, others lapillos durissimos3, others albicantes, rufos, griseos, tophaceoss, and others, as he says, were like biliary calculi. He seems to have met with but one case in which the concretion was like to most of those in the Museum of the University of 1 Ephem. Nat. Cur. Dec. I. Ann. II. Obs. 89. 130. et variis locis. 2 Vide Morbid Anatomy, 2d Edition. 3 P. 194. * Vide p. 191. » Vide p. 134. s Vide p. 1.54. Edinburgh, which he calls substantia; rarce et spongioses, magnitudine dimidii ovi *. A complete view of the whole subject of alvine concretions must necessarily include those which are found in the intestines of quadrupeds ; but as that section of the subject would be inadmissible in a work of this nature, we shall confine ourselves chiefly to those which occur in the alimentary canal of man. Concretions found in the human alimentary canal.—The concretions found in the aliment- ary canal vary considerably in their physical and chemical properties, and may be classed as follows : The first class comprehends such concretions as are formed of a number of very small vegetable fibres, being composed chiefly of the husk of the oat, held in union by a te- nacious mucus; in some concretions of this description, the centre or nucleus is sometimes found to be a cherry or prune stone, a small fragment of wood or bone, or a little gravel ; and, according to some authors, a small biliary concretion, or a small portion of adipocire. In some, but by no means in all such concre- tions, there are a few white, thin, concentric, laminae, which are either phosphate of lime, or the ammoniaco-magnesian phosphate. When such concretions have attained a consi- derable size they are of irregular shape, some- times tuberculated, and resembling a mul- berry, and sometimes incrusted by a coating of phosphate of lime, or ammoniaco-magnesian phosphate, of two or three lines in thickness. The second class of concretions, which is much more rare than the first, bears some re- semblance to it, being composed of a number of cherry or prune stones or gooseberry seeds cemented together by a tenacious mu- cus. Concretions of this description have also been described by Mr. Children, (Phil. Trans. 1822,) and he has given a case where such a concretion proved fatal a very short time after the patient had eaten a large quan- tity of plums. The third class differs essentially from the two preceding, being composed of vitiated bile, saliva, or pancreatic juice, and are not primarily formed within the alimentary canal, but find their way into it through the ducts proper to the salivary glands, pancreas, or liver. The fourth class comprehends those concre- tions which are composed of a cetaceous sub- stance ; they have neither the specific levity, crystallised form, colour, nor bitter taste of gall stones, and are probably formed in the intes- tinal canal; an opinion which receives weight from the case of a lady, who, after having swallowed a considerable quantity of olive oil, constantly voided a number of globular concretions, “ varying in size from that of a small pea to the bulk of a moderate grape, of cream colour, and slightly translucent, of a sufficient consistence to preserve their form, and to bear being cut by a knife, like soft wax ; the second case, that of a girl four years and a half old, who appears to have had 1 Vide p. 157. F 2