238 FOREIGN BODIES. FORCEPS. (Forceps, Lat.; Pince, Fr.; Zange, Germ.) Under this term are included various instruments, or modifications of the same instrument, devised in order to extend the sphere of action, and increase the power of the finger and thumb. Forceps are em- ployed, first, for the purpose of seizing and holding firmly certain parts during the per- formance of surgical operations ; secondly, to facilitate the extraction of tumours or other abnormal substances from any canal, cavity, or organ, in which they may have formed ; and thirdly, to effect the removal of foreign bodies which have lodged in parts of the frame beyond the reach of the hand. It is unnecessary to attempt any detailed description of the various forms of forceps. A short catalogue, accompanied by a reference to the articles in which their several uses are more distinctly set forth, will be sufficient. Forceps made with ring handles to receive the finger and thumb :— Common dressing forceps. Long curved forceps, for extracting foreign bodies from the pharynx. (See Pharynx.) Bullet forceps. (See Gun-shot Wounds.) Forceps for the removal of polypi from the nose and ears. (See Polypus.) Urethra forceps for grasping and with- drawing small calculi lodged in that canal. (See Lithotrity.) Lithotomy forceps. (See Lithotomy.) Spring forceps :— Common dissecting forceps. Artery or ligature forceps. (See Liga- ture.) Amussat’s torsion forceps. (See Tor- sion.) Forceps employed in Ophthalmic Surgery: Cataract forceps. (See Cataract.) Ciliary forceps, Entropium forceps. Obstetric forceps. (See Parturition.) FOREIGN BODIES. (Corjis etrangers, Fr. ; corpora extranea, peregrina, Lat.) The term foreign body is used generally to signify any substance, solid, liquid, or gaseous, or- ganic or inorganic, living or dead, intro- duced from without, or developed from within; which, occupying a place in connexion with or in the substance of the organs or tissues of the human body, or in contact with its serous, mucous, or cutaneous surfaces, does not yet participate in its vitality, or cannot become a part of its organization. The foreign bodies developed within the animal are organic or inorganic ; the inorganic are the precipitates from the secretions or ex- cretions, or substances abnormally formed by secreting organs. (See Calculus.) The ex- cretions themselves too long detained, liquids or gases effused into the cavities of the body, or into the cells of the filamentous tissue (Emphysema, Empyema, Pneumo-thorax, &c.) ; portions of the bony tissues which have lost their vitality, and have become detached, as the sequestra of Necrosis (see Necrosis), and the slough of mortification (see Gan- grene). The organic are animal parasites, hydatids, and worms. The foreign bodies introduced from with- out are also organic or inorganic, and may be introduced, either by the natural apertures, or by means of a division or laceration of some of the bodily textures. The organic are either living or dead ; living, as leeches, va- rious insects, &c.; dead, the various animal or vegetable articles used for food, &c. Inorganic foreign bodies may be solid, liquid, or gaseous : solid—bullets, portions of cutting instruments, pins, needles, pieces of wood, glass, or earthenware, stones of fruit, &c.: liquid—such as are injected into the tissues, as the injection for the cure of hydrocele, carried by mistake into the cellular tissue of the scrotum, &c.: gaseous—noxious vapours carried by respiration into the air-cells, air infiltrated in the cellular tissue. (See As- phyxia, Emphysema.) To enter into the subject of foreign bodies in the comprehensive sense of the above defi- nition would obviously be inconvenient; and indeed, the article would then invade the province of several other writers. We shall, therefore, confine ourselves to those solid bodies, living or dead, which are introduced from without, and remain, either within the substance of the tissues, or applied to one of the surfaces of the body. The effects produced by a solid foreign body will vary with its size, form, chemical composition, consistence, mode of introduc- tion, the situation it occupies, and the firm- ness of its position. Thus other things being equal, a large body will produce worse conse- quences than a small one; an irregular, pointed, angular, or ragged substance, than one round, smooth, or polished ; an oxydizable more than a non-oxydizable metal, provided the oxyde of the former be pernicious when absorbed ; an acrid chemical more than one inert; a body whose bulk has a tendency to be increased by the absorption of moisture than one the volume of which remains un- changed ; a brittle or friable body than one which is hard and firm ; and the effects will vary with the importance of the part which is the seat of injury, or that of the organs whose functions are disturbed. Generally speaking, injurious effects, both immediate and remote, are produced, that is, upon the function of the part which is the seat of injury, and upon the general system. The immediate local effect, if the foreign body be applied to any part continuous with the ex- ternal tegument, and, therefore, naturally having a free exit, is usually an effort at its expulsion ; thus, a foreign body in the nose excites sneezing ; in the air passages, cough- ing ; in the urinary passages, an effort to pass water, &c. If these efforts are unsuccessful, or the body be in the substance of an organ or tissue, inflammatory action is excited in its neighbourhood, suppuration is established, and the offending foreign body, after a time, is