25 EAR, AND HEARING, DISEASES OF. For this purpose the patient may be requested to make a forcible expiration into the nostrils with the nose and mouth close, and to describe the sensation, if any, felt in the ears. Most people know the sensation in healthy ears, pro- duced by this action. If the patient either experienced no sensation in the ears, or can- not give any very clear account of what he felt, catheterism and injection of the Eusta- chian tube must be had recourse to. Catheterism of the Eustachian tube and injection of atmospherical air into the tympanum. This, it is to be premised, sometimes proves a principal means in the treatment, by break- ing up and dispersing any accumulation of mucus in the middle ear, or by rendering pervious the Eustachian tube, the walls of which have been glued together by thickened mucus, and thus restoring free access of air to the cavity of the tympanum. In the case of the eye, we can readily see and remove any accumulation of thickened mucus by means of a sponge and warm water, but the more inaccessible cavity of the tympanum re- quires to be examined and cleared out by more complicated means. Here it may be remarked, that simple ob- struction of the Eustachian tubes does not necessarily induce a very great degree of deafness, nor always buzzing in the ears ; and, on the other hand, numerous cases of ob- struction of the Eustachian tubes are met with,in which,in consequenceof complications, their restoration to a pervious state is followed by no improvement in hearing. It is of con- sequence to keep this in mind, as it is a very prevalent notion that obstruction of the Eus- tachian tubes alone causes a great degree of deafness and buzzing in the ears, and that no- thing more is required in order to a cure, than clearing them out. Catheters made of gum-elastic or silver are employed for this purpose. The gum elastic ones being provided with a stylet, may be moulded into any shape at the moment. The inflexible metallic ones are of various forms, according to the fancy or intention of the operator. Figure 194 represents the inflexible silver catheter recommended by Dr. Kramer of Berlin. It is one I have used and found to answer every purpose ; it is easy of intro- duction, and its beak being short, and there- fore capable of extending but a little way up the Eustachian tube, free room is left for any regurgitation of air. Two sizes above and two sizes below that represented, will be found a sufficient series. The catheters are graduated with inches, which is of great assist- ance in their repeated introduction. At their posterior or nearer extremity they are fur- nished with a funnel-shaped dilatation for re- ceiving the tube of the air-press or injecting syringe. The ring on the side of the dilata- tion corresponds in direction with the beak of the catheter. By observing, therefore, the direction of the former, the position of the latter, when in the nose and out of view, may be judged of. Fig. 194. As a catheter of the form just described pene- trates but a very little \ \ way into the Eustachian \ \ tube, and therefore lies \ quite loosely, it requires \ to be kept in its place by \ some contrivance. The instrument which effects this purpose very well is Itard’s frontlet. Fig. 195 represents one as modified by Kramer. It consists of a forceps, a, closed by a screw, for grasping the catheter, having at one extremity, and at right angles to its length, a ball moving in a socket in all directions, b ; a screw, c, tightens this joint. The socket is fixed in the cen- tre of a metallic plate, d, covered with leather, and slightly padded on the inner surface, which is concave, to correspond to the arch of the fore- head, to which it is ap- plied, and secured by straps, e e, going round the head. The operation of cathe- terism of the Eustachian tube is commenced by first applying the frontlet, which is to be so placed that the forceps, when turned down perpendicu- larly over the nose, may grasp the catheter as it lies introduced into the Eustachian tube. Ac- cording as it is the right or the left Eustachian tube operated on,so should the ball and socket joint be a little to the right or left side. Until the catheter is fairly lodged in the Eu- stachian tube, the forceps of the frontlet is kept out of the way of the operator by being turned upwards, and kept firmly in its socket Fig. 195. Fig. 195 represents the frontlet atmtit one-sintk below the full size.