FISTULA, INTESTINAL. 221 ture or unnatural contraction of the large in- testines, rarely, if ever, exists in any other portion of the tube, except the lower part of the rectum. These facts ought to impress the mind of the surgeon with the great im- portance, both of recognizing such changes in their early stage, as well as of detecting their existence at a more advanced period, when they have produced such obstruction of the bowels as threatens speedy dissolution. In the former instance he may sometimes suc- ceed in removing the affection, or in prevent- ing its increase; in the latter, he may be ena- bled to hold out that prospect of relief, which an artificial anus affords. The means whereby we may recognize these affections are undoubtedly very limited, but still they are such as may in many in- stances succeed. By the finarer, the rectum can be explored only throughout a small part of its course, except a degree of invagina- tion exists, as in two of the cases reported above, when even the upper portion ot this bowel may be examined by direct touch. The ordinary rectum-bougie is ill calculated to give information of the state of the rectum, from its being firmly grasped by the sphincter ; but much more accurate information may be at- tained by the use of sounds, consisting of ivory balls of different sizes, attached to a silver rod twelve inches in length, admitting of being bent to different degrees of curva- ture. By such instruments contractions of the rectum, as high as five, or even seven inches above the anus, may be detected, and in their early stages relieved ; but, in the em- ployment of these sounds, it is necessary to guard those, who have had but little expe- rience of their use, against the deception which might arise from the instrument being arrested by the promontory of the sacrum, by an enlarged uteru3, or by the folded state of the intestine at its junction with the colon, when the mesorectum is more relaxed than usual. Bibliography.—The best writers on Intestinal Fistula, and their works, have been given in the body of the preceding article. ( T. P. Tcale.) FISTULA, LACHRYMAL. See La- chrymal Organs, Diseases of. FISTULA, RECTO-VAGINAL. This very rare form of fistula presented itself within a recent period to that very ingenious and eminent surgeon, Dr. Mott of New York. The treatment adopted by him shows a highly creditable facility of availing himself of a rational resource, and will be best elucidated by narrating the case as it is recorded in the Gaz. Med. No. 18. “ Miss R., aged 22, after having travelled from Philadelphia to New York, became affected with abscess in the recto-vaginal region. The abscess pointed in two places ; one orifice soon healed up, but the other situated in the vagina became fistulous. Du- ring four years, injections, caustics, incisions, and excisions—in a word, every kind of treat- ment was employed, but without success. In 1839, the patient consulted Dr. Mott. At this time the fistula opened into the right side of the vagina, about six lines from its entrance. On passing a probe into the fistula, he found that it led upwards to the cavity of the rec- tum about three or four inches above the anus. A quantity of air and fecal matter was occasionally discharged through the opening in the vagina. “ It wras easy to foresee,” says Dr. Mott, “ that the disease should be treated on the same principles as fistula in ano ; the cases were analogous, the only difference being, that here the fistula opened into the vagina. However, the ordinary treatment of fistula in ano could not be strictly applied here, for by employing the seton, or dividing the soft parts comprised between the two fistulous openings, we should have destroyed a portion of the perineum, established a large communication between the rectum and vagina, and thus aggravated the disease, instead of curing it. “ It, therefore, became necessary to devise such modifications of the operation for com- mon fistula, as the peculiar nature of this case demanded. Having introduced for several days a large pledget of lint into the fistula, for the purpose of dilating it, and of bringing it into a straight line, I passed a ligature along the fistulous canal (from the vagina) into the rectum, and brought it out through the rec- tum ; it was left in this state for a few days ; I then passed the vaginal end of the ligature into the eye of a curved probe, and directed it upwards through the fistulous canal for about an inch and a half. The point of the probe was now turned downwards, and made to strike the perineum beyond the sphincter ani; I then cut down on the probe, and brought out the end of the ligature. By this means the ligature, instead of communicating with the rectum at one end, and the vagina at the other, merely embraced (as in cases of common fistula in ano) the inferior portion of the external wall of the rectum, and the soft parts between this latter and the point of incision. Nothing now remained to be done, except to tighten the ligature gradually, in order to destroy the soft parts embraced by it. However, before this was completely accomplished, the vaginal orifice had closed up, and I continued to draw the ligature tighter every day until the parts embraced by it were reduced to a mere cord, which I cut across with the scissors. In a few days after- wards the artificial opening healed up, and the patient was perfectly cured of her disease.” Lacerations of the recto-vaginal wall some- times take place, and remain fistulous. In a case of this kind treated by Saucerotte, the suture was employed, and the reunion of the ed"es of the opening w'as supposed to be com- plete, when after a few- days it gave way, while the patient was having an evacuation of