410 GANGRENE, HOSPITAL. general surface of the sore, whether the affec- tion be slight or severe, and whether the remaining slough be deep or superficial, Mr. W. advises the reapplication of the undiluted acid. Dilution only weakens the remedy, and protracts the duration, without diminish- ing the severity of the pain attending the application. The result is, that patients who have known no reprieve from suffering for weeks, and whose constitutions have become, in consequence, greatly disturbed, within a very short space of time sleep soundly and tranquilly, their fever subsides, and, in a few days, we should with difficulty recognise the individuals whom we had before seen sub- jected to the painful progress of a malignant and too often fatal malady. “ The application of nitric acid,” says Mr. Leslie,(p. 164,) “the first effectsof which were most acute pain, continuing from a quarter to half an hour, and the formation of a slough,—in several cases gave much relief, and the pa- tients themselves in some few begged for its re-application : in others it completely failed, as did every thing else ; and, in a very few, a single application arrested the sloughing, and the sores healed. The use of this powerful agent in similar cases,” adds Mr. Leslie, “ ought not to be lost sight of.” M. Delpeeh mentions, that in the military hospital at Toulouse, he employed with much advantage, caustic potass as an escharotic : but thinking, that if it were merely extended over the infected surface, it would only combine with the pulpy mass, he pushed angular frag- ments deep into it, until the blood, making its appearance by the passages which these frag- ments had made, gave a full assurance of their having been carried down to the living parts. “ In garnishing in this way, with a suitable number of fragments of potassa, the whole extent of the infected ulceration, we had the assurance of forming, beyond the infection, an eschar which w'as not penetrated with con- tagious matter, and of arresting the progress of the local affection. The success completely answered to our expectation ; and we had the satisfaction, upon the fall of the eschar, to see a vermilion and well-conditioned surface present itself.” (p. 88.) Mr. Blackadder has recommended, in the most enthusiastic terms, the employment of solutions of arsenic, such as Fowler’s solution, or the liquor arsenicalis of the London Phar- macopoeia, as preferable to all other escharotic applications in hospital gangrene. “ ¥ or,first,” says he, “ it is completely effectual; secondly, its application is attended with as little, if not with less pain than that of any other article which is equally certain in its effects ; thirdly, its judicious employment is attended with no danger, difficulty, nor trouble ; fourthly, it has the peculiar excellence of not extending its operation laterally ; and, fifthly, the expense incurred by its use is so small as scarcely to bear computation.” The ordinary solution of arsenic is generally found to be sufficiently powerful, when diluted with an equal quantity of water ; in some slight and recent cases, Mr. Blackadder found two parts of water to one of the solution, answer every purpose ; and he sometimes used it undiluted, but thinks this will very seldom be found necessary1. The escharotic of which French surgeons have principally made use in the treatment of this disease, and from which they seem all to have derived the utmost advantage, is the actual cautery. It was recommended by Pou- teau, in his original memoir on this disease. Dussassois states expressly, that the patients usually felt great relief from the application of the cautery. It should be applied, he says, to the surface of the sore only, not to its edges ; and if the first application does not allay the pain, another should be made within forty-eight hours from the first. M. Dupuy- tren, likewise, was a powerful advocate for the actual cautery in hospital gangrene ; and M. Delpeeh, in his monograph on this disease, declares that nothing can equal the prompti- tude and the constancy of the success that attended his employment of it. A single application most commonly sufficed ; and this could be prognosticated with certainty, when- ever the pains occasioned by the disease ceased during the day, or within twenty-four hours after the cauterization. The beneficial result was secured from the first application of the cautery, whenever it could be applied successively to all the points of the infected surface. The irregular form of that surface opposed the sole obstacle to this, and most frequently only from the irregularity not hav- ing been previously known. The dryness of the eschar, formed by the actual cautery, was the surest sign, derived from the parts them- selves, that the fire had destroyed all that had been exposed to the contagion ; a moist point usually revealed any part that had escaped the action of the heat, and marked the neces- sity of a new application. It is obvious, that whatever be the escha- rotic employed, the treatment to be pursued after the separation of the eschar must be the same. The surgeon must endeavour to turn to the best account in his power the new healthy granulating surface which he has obtained ; to protect it, so far as may be possible, from fresh infection, and to bring about cicatrization in the shortest possible period of time, by those applications which experience has shown to be best adapted for this purpose. In reference to the pre- vention of re-infection, we are informed by M. Delpeeh, that when he first began the use of the cautery, and was in the habit of afterwards applying emollient poultices with a view to prevent excessive inflammation, it frequently happened, that though the eschars, on separating, exposed vermilion surfaces, these, in no long time, presented fresh signs of the same infection, and this, although he had every reason to believe that all the affect- 1 See account of mode of application, art. Arse- nic, vol. i. p. 377.