CATARACT. 730 ever, it has been pretty generally admitted that cataracts can be properly treated only by the selection of that operation which is best suited to the nature of the individual case under consideration. A few of the opinions of the most eminent surgeons upon this sub- ject may be here quoted. Mr. Lawrence in his work on Diseases of the Eye makes the following remarks: “ No person who understands the subject would advise any one operation to be employed ex- clusively. Each method has its advantages, and is eligible under certain circumstances; our object then should be, not to select one operation with the view of practising it in all cases, but to consider the circumstances which give a preference to one or the other, and to select in each instance, that which is best suited to the particular form of the complaint1 *.” Mr. Guthrie says, “ It has been proved, that dex- terity in operation, and precision in the per- formance of it, will enable a surgeon to do more in every operation than can be done by another who does not possess these qualities in an equal degree ; but it has been no less proved, that certain states of disease are better adapted for one operation than another, and that each variety of cataract is not favourable for the operation of extraction, displacement, or division. The greatest attention has been, and is paid, to this subject by every man of judg- ment and honour ; and supposing an equal de- gree of dexterity in the performance of all, the choice of the operation depends, 1st, upon the nature of the disease, and 2dly, upon the state of the parts implicated by the opera- tion 8.” Dr. Mackenzie of Glasgow, after describing the different operations for cataract, and the cases to which they are most applicable, re- marks as follows: “ The conclusions to be drawn from a general review of the opera- tions for cataract are, that each possesses ad- vantages and disadvantages, and is attended by peculiar dangers; that one mode of ope- rating will be suitable for one case of cataract, and another for another, and that there can be no more incontestable proof of a man’s igno- rance of this subject than his asking which of these operations we practise, or of a man’s being a charlatan, than his pretending to cure all kinds of cataract by one kind of operation alone, modified by some trifling change in the manipulations or the instruments. Each of the operations for cataract will, in certain cir- cumstances, recommend itself to our choice ; none is to be universally adopted and practised to the entire rejection of the other 3.” Mr. Travers, also, though he gives a de- cided preference to the operation of extrac- tion, in cases of cataract of firm consistence, entertains precisely similar opinions to those above quoted4. 1 Lawrence on Diseases of the Eye, p. 417. 5 Guthrie’s Lectures on the Operative Surgery of the Eye, p. 366. 3 Mackenzie on the Eve, p. 670. * Travers’ Synopsis of Diseases of the Eve. § 20. Advantages and Objections to the DIFFERENT OPERATIONS FOR CATARACT, and the Cases to which they are best ADAPTED. 1. Regarding the operation of absorption.— In pointing out the cases to which the dif- ferent operations for cataract are best adapted, they may be arranged under four divisions :— 1, soft and fluid cataracts; 2, firm and hard cataracts; 3, capsular cataracts; 4, cataracts complicated with other morbid states of the eye. These are the divisions which will be chiefly kept in view, in the following remarks upon this subject. As to the great merit, the superior safety and complete success of the operation by ab- sorption, in cases of soft cataract, and particu- larly those of young subjects, whether con- genital or arising from injury, there is no difference of opinion among professional men. To the skill and experience of the late Mr. Saunders1 we are much indebted for accurate information upon this subject; and his obser- vations have been amply confirmed by the ex- perience of subsequent operators. “ It is im- possible,” says Mr. Travers, “ to conceive a more simple, sufficient, or gratifying operation than that of Mr. Saunders, if the intention is perfectly executed. I have now enjoyed ex- tensive opportunities of ascertaining its value, having operated during a period of ten years upon children of all ages, from four months upwards, and I do not hesitate to affirm that it ranks in my estimation as one of the finest discoveries of modern science The advantages of this mode of operating, which decidedly render it preferable in the cases above alluded to, have been very gene- rally admitted. Accordingly, the few objec- tions that have been urged against it are rather to be considered as inconveniences than cir- cumstances which either preclude the adoption of this operation, or give a preference to any of the others. These inconveniences are, 1st, that the torn capsule may reunite and prevent the action of the aqueous humour upon the cataract. This renders one or more repe- titions of the operation necessary, the division of the lens, and the removal of its fragments into the anterior chamber. 2dly. Opacity of the capsule not unfrequently takes place after this operation ; but this is an inconvenience which is as liable to follow either of the other operations. The same remark may be made regarding inflammation ; but, as in this opera- tion, less injury is done to the interior of the eye than in any of the others, less inflamma- tion is to be expected, and, indeed, very rarely takes place to a dangerous degree. 2. Couching, or Displacement. Couching, or displacement, was for a long period the only operation performed for the cure of cataract. But, since the introduction 1 Sec Saunders on the Eye, edited by Dr. Farre. 5 Travers’ Synopsis, p. 321.