ERYSIPELAS. 158 least serve to show the impossibility of sub- stantiating by anatomical proofs the existence of capillary lymphitis. However, this opinion of Blandin would seem to be borne out by induction ; for, as he observes, the oedema which frequently supervenes in erysipelas, cannot be explained but by admitting the in- tervention either of a venous or a lymphatic inflammation, and the symptomatology of the disease is decidedly in favour of the latter conclusion. Phlebitis is certainly sometimes found to exist, but as a pure complication, and as Rayer remarks', it takes place more fre- quently in inflammation of the cellular tissue than in that of the skin. Sometimes small circumscribed abscesses are found in the tissue of the derm. The necroscopic characters of phlegmonous erysipelas are more easily ap- preciated, but constituting the symptoms of the disease they have been already de- scribed. It would be irrelevant to our subject to expose the various internal lesions resulting from the different distinct diseases that may complicate erysipelas. I shall only recall to mind the negative results recorded in a pre- ceding paragraph, obtained by Messrs. Cho- mel and Marotte, in cases of erysipelas ac- companied during life with the most violent cerebral disturbance. Treatment.—It is easy to understand how even diametrically opposite methods should have their successes in the treatment of ery- sipelas, as the means are directed not against an identical alteration, but to combat diverse pathological modifications, to which each me- thod may become appropriate. In simple benign erysipelas occurring in a previously healthy subject, remove whatever may disturb the march of the disease, and repose, abstinence, and diluting drinks will as speedily and as assuredly effect a cure, as the multiplied draughts, pills, potions, &c., how- ever elegantly and elaborately formalized they may be, in which the deplorable system of surgeon-apothecariships has involved En- glish practice. Various topical means have been used with the intention of arresting the progress of the eruption or of abridging its duration ; but ex- perience has passed sentence of condemnation upon many of them. The use of warm emollient cataplasms has been stamped with reprobation since the time of Fabricius of Aquapendente. “ Warm mu- cilaginous poultices,” says Chomel, “ as well as unctuous compresses, have the inconvenience of concentrating the heat, increasing the local fluxion, promoting eczematous eruptions, and the detaching of the epiderm 1 2.” Dr. Rennes, however, says that he has found great benefit from their use3. Flour and other absorbent powders sprinkled 1 Op. cit. 2 Chomel, Op. cit. 3 Archives Gencrales <le Med. tome xxiv. over the eruption often form crusts under which a purulent exhalation takes place *. Mercurial inunctions and frictions, first used according to Dewees 2 and Chapman 3, in the United States by Little and Dean, notwith- standing the advocacy of able partizans4 have not obtained undisputed sanction. Chomel considers that the cures attributed to these means were in general due to the natural march of the affection, and the trials he made w ith them led him to conclude that they have no power in arresting the progress of the dis- ease 5. Doctors Barthez 6, and Martin Solon7, have made use of simple hog’s lard instead of mercurial ointment, and assure us that its appli- cation w'as attended with the greatest advan- tage and without any of the inconveniences of the mercurial ointment, which, Dr. Barthez considers, owes all its virtues to the vehicle in which the mercury is conveyed. Rayer made frequent and varied experiments with both these substances in erysipelas of the entire face, sometimes applying the lard on one side, and the mercurial ointment on the other; at other times making either mercu- rial or simple lard incrustions on one side while the other side was left untouched, and in no instance was the cure more prompt on one side than on the other. Independently of these negative results, effects of mercurial ab- sorption, stomatitis, salivation, aphthous ulcer- ation of the mouth, or intestinal irritations, diarrhoea, ulcerations, as well as eczematous eruptions have been produced by mercurial topics. In seven cases in which Blandin made use of this means, three of the patients died, two of whom were affected with saliva- tion which, he considers, contributed to the fatal termination 8. Other practitioners, how- ever, consider salivation as a desideratum, and Dr. Mac Dowel says, that “ cases threatening a fatal termination, when once ptyalism w'as effected, speedily ended satisfactorily9.” Ri- cord, one of the most efficient partizans of this method, and who has the credit of having introduced it into European practice, having had but two deaths in 116 cases, and the average duration of the 114 cures being about five days, is led to conclude that the various accidents, and the want of success attendant upon its use in other hands, are attributable to some impropriety either in the ointment or in its application ; that a rancid ointment must have been used, which, irritating the skin pro- duces eczematous eruption, or that frictions had been made instead of incrustions, or that its application had been discontinued too soon, 1 Op. cit. 2 Treatise on the Phys. and Med. Treatment of Children. 3 Elements of Tlierap. 1821, t. i. < Ricord, I.anccttc Franchise, passim. Marloy, Theses de Paris, 1833, and Lancette Franqaise, 1833. Mac Dowel and Reid, Dublin Joum. of Med. and Chem. Science, vol. vi. 5 Op. cit. 0 Recueilde Med. et de Chirurg. Milit. t. i. 2 Lancette Franchise, 1831, t. v. no. 55. 8 Op. cit. 0 Op. cit.