BONE, DISEASES OF. 501 from pressing the intercostal spaces. But directly the stethoscope impinged on the periosteum, the patients started away, or pushed oft’, the instrument. This was nearly constant, but a day occasionally occurred when it was not so. Both patients died, and I examined the periosteum most carefully, but could not trace the slightest evidence of vas- cular injection, or any result of inflammation. A practical hint of some value to young ste- thoscopists may be deduced from these re- marks : it is, to be particularly cautious in ! passing the fingers over the chest of a stranger before employing percussion, as the severe pain produced in these cases by any rough : manipulation, would be very likely to operate to the prejudice of the practitioner. As to the treatment, it will consist of means likely to restore power to the system, and if nothing contra-indicates its employment, small doses of the iodide of potassium in some strong pre- paration of sarsaparilla. II. We have now to consider the changes resulting from defect or excess, in the nu- tritive or assimilative powers. Our space prevents us entering into a con- sideration of the ingenious views of Muller on growth and nutrition ; it suffices to say that a i constant change goes on in the materials of which the body is composed, both fluids and solids : old matter is removed, new matter is deposited or assimilated. In order that this should go on with regularity and precision, so that the size, form, structure, and chemical composition of the various textures may be preserved, a wonderful balance must be kept up between the processes of digestion and assimilation, and the general vigour of the whole system, especially in youth when growth is going on, and the exchange of material necessarily most rapid. Supposing then this balance to be deranged, and there results simple defect or excess in the processes of nutrition or absorption, the relative pro- portions of animal and inorganic matter re- maining unaltered, wre have either hyper- trophy, or atrophy. If there be a want of proportion between these substances, resulting either from diminished deposition, or increased absorption, the effects are either rachitis, mollities ossium, or fragilitas ossium. 1. Hypertrophy of bone signifies abnormal excess in its developement, the structure re- maining unaltered. It may be general, affect- ing the whole osseous system ; but this is very rare, and is usually accompanied by a ten- dency to bony deposition in other parts. A single bone may be hypertrophied throughout its whole extent, and it is not very rare to find them increased in thickness. This is generally in strong muscular subjects ; for as we find that throughout all classes of animals a constant relation exists between the de- velopement of muscle and the weight of bone, so in man, where there is great muscular power, hone is supplied in proportion. Were this not the case, fractures would frequently happen merely from violent muscular efforts, an accident which sometimes occurs under some conditions of osseous disease. To a certain extent, therefore, hypertrophy may be considered as an effect of excessive healthy action. It is very rare to find a bone lengthened from hypertrophy ; there are, however, in the museum of St. Bartholomew’s hospital, sections of two tibiae so much elongated from this cause, that they have become considerably curved, in order to adapt themselves to the fibu- lae, which remain of their natural length. The hypertrophy is confined principally to the can- cellated structure. It is probable that hyper- trophy does not always result from increased nutrition, but sometimes from diminished ab- sorption ; and this supposition gains strength from the power iodine possesses in removing that form of exostosis, which is the mere effect of partial hypertrophy. Iodine is generally supposed to have considerable power in stimu- lating the absorbent system ; and if by this excitement hypertrophy be removed, some would infer that a deficiency in absorbing power was the cause of the disease. We must have more certain data, howrever, on which to explain the modus operandi of iodine before these premises can be established ; and even then the conclusions would be open to exception. 2. Atrophy of bone is a state exactly opposite to that of hypertrophy. The causes may be a general defect in the nutritive and assimila- tive powers of the system, and in this case many of the bones suffer. This is exemplified in children who grow rapidly. The soft parts increase very speedily, and the structural growth of bone not keeping pace with them, the osseous system suffers a comparative arrest of development. Various causes may operate to produce atrophy of a particular bone. As the soft parts waste when not exercised, so bone if kept long in a state of perfect rest loses its size and w'eight. Cases are recorded of persons long confined to bed, in whom the bones became so soft as to be readily cut with a knife, and their texture so loosened as to be easily unravelled. Part of a bone only may be atrophied, of which a familiar instance is afforded in the sternum, when undergoing pressure from an aneurism of the thoracic aorta. This has been, absurdly enough, described as a form of caries, but it is really nothing more than partial atrophy, from diminution in the supply of blood to the part. The vessels of the bone are pressed on and obstructed by the aneurism, nutrition thereby prevented, and the bone either dies, or is re- moved, the process of absorption being undi- minished. In the museum of University col- lege is a thigh-bone, which has been reduced to a mere shell in its lower part, by the pres- sure of a popliteal tumour ; and analogous pre- parations are met with in most collections. In the twentieth volume of the Medico- Chirurgical Transactions, Mr. Curling has en- deavoured to prove that bones undergo a form of atrophy, when deprived of nervous influence. It appeal’s doubtful, however, whether in the