CAUSTICS. 747 tion. It is a useful application to scrofulous sores of a torpid character, when the sur- rounding’ integuments are undermined and shelving, and to wounds or abrasions contami- nated with animal poisons. In the latter in- stance it ought to be freely insinuated into the breach of surface ; and after a while any remaining excess should be carefully wiped off with dry lint, in order to prevent its spreading over the sound integument. A cy- linder of this caustic, tapering to a point, may be efficaciously employed to open an abscess. By such procedure room is made for a free and complete discharge of matter ; and the sinuses, jagged lips, callous and in- verted edges, so frequent a sequel of the use of the knife, even in the most healthy sub- jects, rarely occur1. Zohrer earnestly recom- mends this practice in the instance of glandu- lar abscess, occurring in a strumous habit of body2. I have thus cured buboes with great promptitude. In a paper published in the ninth volume of the Transactions of the Medical and Chi- rurgical Society, Mr. Wardrop proposed the cure of nsevus by the process of artificial ulceration ; and for this purpose recom- mended the kali purum, or hydrate of potash. It is sufficient to apply the caustic only to a small point of the tumour, for w'hich pur- pose a piece of adhesive plaster, with a hole cut in its centre of sufficient size for the application of the potash, should be placed on the tumour which serves to limit its action to the desired extent. This done, the potash is to be rubbed on the skin, until a sufficient action is distinctly produced, which is indicated by its discoloration. If in two or three days it is found that the action of the potash has not been suffi- cient, it may then be re-applied and rubbed on a greater extent of surface, or with greater force, thus securing the formation of a larger and deeper slough. In this manner it may be used any number of times, and it is sur- prising, after a complete slough has thus been formed, how rapidly the subjacent tumour melts away. It is not requisite that the dead portion should separate and leave the ulcerated surface exposed ; on the contrary, the slough should not be meddled with, as it forms the best dressing, and the ulcerative process will be found to go on, imperceptibly as it were, un- derneath it, its progress being indicated only by the collapse of the tumour. No bleeding takes place during this process, as the extre- mities of the vessels become gradually filled up with coagulated blood, in proportion as the ulceration advances in the mass, and the cells of the parenchyma arc filled with coagulated blood, the circulation through these having been arrested. This practice has proved 1 Clare P. An Essay on the Cure of Abscesses by Caustic, and on the Treatment of Wounds and Ulcers; five. London, 179.9. 3 Das Hciivcrfahrcn gegen die scrofuldsen Drttscn- gcschwulstc und Abscessc. Vienna, 1829. p. 56. successful in cases of very large nrnvi. Cho- part suggested an ingenious plan for the re- moval of tumours by means of ligatures im- bued w'ith causticx. Potash thus applied, according to him, acts with more activity than when placed solid upon the skin. Where the tumour is sufficiently prominent to be em- braced by the medicated ligature, wre may thereby perform a kind of amputation, more tedious and painful perhaps, than with a knife, but in skilful hands equally sure of success. Cauterization with this substance has been employed by Dr. V. Kern for diminishing the inguinal aperture, in the case of large reducible hernise with wide sacs2; by Dr. Hesselbach for inducing inflammation and sloughing of the tunica vaginalis, in order to effect a radi- cal cure of hydrocele3; by Professor Dzondi, for the purpose of healing congenital fistulas of the trachea, after previous dilatation of the fistulous passage4; by Solera, for the removal of trichiasis, the stick of caustic being incased in sealing-wax or shell-lac5. This caustic is generally preferred for form- ing issues ; and the most convenient mode of employing it for that purpose is to apply to the skin a piece of linen spread w'ith adhesive plaster, having a circular opening in its centre corresponding to the intended size of the issue ; and then to rub upon the skin, within the opening, a piece of the caustic previously moistened at one end, as in the case of nsevus. The application is to be continued till the life of the part is destroyed, when the caustic should be carefully washed off. Poultices are afterw’ards to be applied till the separation of the eschar, which, if moderately thick, is sel- dom affected before twelve or fifteen days. Hydrate of Soda is an efficient escharotic, adapted for the same purposes as the caustic potash ; being less deliquescent it is more manageable than the latter. Quick-lime is occasionally employed as a caustic. Slower and less profound in its action than either of the alkaline hydrates we have been describing, it keeps up a kind of smoulder- ing heat in the part, and produces a dirty- green eschar, which comes away upon the poultice in gluey filamentous shreds, after the lapse of eight or ten days. Such were the phenomena I perceived in a case of scirrhous breast, to which I applied a soft cake, com- posed of equal parts of finely-powdered quick- lime and soft soap. It effected a partial sepa- ration only of the diseased mass. Canquoin’s formula is three parts by weight of quicklime mixed with two parts of dry soap, both re- duced to the pulverulent state. This is to be diluted with a little rectified spirit of wine, so 1 Prix do TAcademie de Chirurgie, tom. iv; Essai sur les Loupes. 2 Lcistungen der Chirurgisclicn Klimit, an der liolien Schule zu Wien. 1828. p. 100. 3 Jahrbiicher der Physilt. Med. Gcsellschaft. Bd. i. p. 76. * De Fistulis Trachea: Congcnitis. liaise, 1829. p. 15. 5 Archives Gen. de Medecinc. vol. xxi. p. 418.