ARTERITIS. 379 tend for the existence of a cellulo-nervous coat between the internal and middle tunics, relying for the proof of the fact on the frequent de- velopment of calcareous or other formations in this situation, as well as on their power of demonstrating its presence between the lining membrane and the muscular substance of the heart. The colour of the large arteries is a whitish ! yellow; that of those of middle size, reddish; while in the very small arteries, it is nearly red. They are plentifully supplied with mi- nute blood-vessels, the vasa vasorum, and with l nerves, chiefly from the ganglionic system, which may be distinctly traced twining round the large vessels, especially in the cavities of the thorax and abdomen. The question whether arteries possess con- i tractility independent of the heart, though denied by many very eminent physiologists, is now resolved in the affirmative. The action ; of these vessels is a compound, of contractility derived from the fibrous or proper tunic, and of retractility from the cellular coat; all their tissues are extensible, though in different de- | grecs. In consequence of these powers in | the coats of arteries, the progression of the blood through them is promoted ; their pulsa- tions however are isochronous with the con- tractions of the ventricles, and are chiefly de- pendent upon them. The doctrine which referred all the various morbid alterations of arteries to chronic in- flammation of their tissues is now no longer admitted. The degenerescence of these ves- , sels, like that of other tissues of the body, | results from causes obscure in their action, it is true, or altogether unknown, but neverthe- less partaking by no means of the nature of inflammation, but seeming rather to depend, at least in the case of the arteries, on that slow and gradual modification of nutrition which seems to keep pace with the advancement of age. Arteritis, or Inflammation of Arteries1.—The study of the intimate tissues of our organs has accomplished the same results for the pathology of the arteries, as it has for any of the other organs of the economy ; that is, it has enabled us to recognize the dif- ferent susceptibilities of the several arterial tissues, and their liability to be affected separately, successively, or conjointly. But we do not mean to say that the light shed on the affections of the arteries is equally great, as in the instances of other organs, for, on the contrary, notwithstanding the atten- tion that has of late years been bestowed on the pathology and surgery of the arterial sys- tem, perhaps but little progress has been made, as regards the idiopathic alterations of condition, that occur in this order of vessels. The structures that enter into the composi- tion of an artery, seem not to be very suscep- tible of inflammation, but of course in this 1 Tliis subdivision of the article,down to the bottom of p. 382, has been furnished bv my friend Mr. Por- ter of the Meath Hospital, Dublin. respect there must be some variety ; the tis- sue that appears to be endowed with the greatest power of resistance to it, is the mid- dle fibrous, or elastic coat, whilst that which resists it the least is the internal membrane with its subjacent cellular tissue. But, so far from easily assuming the inflammatory process idiopathically, arteries are often seen tra- versing the cavities of tubercular abscesses, exposed in extensive, and even phagedenic ulcerations, without participating in the dis- ease ; and when they happen to give way and burst, it is from being extensively denuded of their cellular coats, and thus deprived of nu- triment. An artery examined under such circumstances, shows no increase of vascu- larity, nor any of those appearances that are said to depend on inflammation. On the other hand, the internal coat, which many regard as analogous to serous membrane, is often found red and vascular, with deposits of various kinds, either on its surface or between it and the fibrous tunic. From their general insusceptibility of dis- ease, therefore, it may not be unfair to assume, that idiopathic arteritis is of rather rare oc- currence, and even when present, it is doubt- ful whether it be accompanied by symptoms sufficiently clear to establish a satisfactory diagnosis. True, when it has produced its lamentable and too often incurable effects in the development of aneurism, it may then be presumed to have been in existence at an earlier period ; but now the appearances of inflammation have passed away, and an au- topsy may show alterations of structure, of shape, or of dimensions in the vessel, but no- thing explanatory of the first and early devia- tions from its state of health. There is another circumstance which adds to the difficulty of these investigations. Ar- teries, particularly the large ones, are often found deeply dyed internally; and this appear- ance has been generally, and I believe pro- perly, attributed to transudation. By the experiments of Rigot and Trousseau, more- over, it has been shown that in some instances the aorta, when slit down its entire length, although on its first being exposed to the air, it presented its ordinary pale colour, soon assumed a deep crimson hue, without having been in contact with the blood ; and, again, when immersed into water, the natural pale straw-colour of the aorta was restored. Such being the fact, how can a difference be discovered between the two cases, one the vascularity of inflammation, the other, the mere physical result of transudation, more especially when, as it has been already ob- served, the history of the case throws no cer- tain or positive light on the dissection. The depth of colour will afford no assistance, as it may depend on the length of time that has elapsed since death, and a number of other causes. There is nothing like distinct vascu- larity in an inflamed artery ; nothing like se- parate, injected, and distended vessels, as in an inflamed conjunctiva ; the redness is broad and patchy, and may be removed by immer-