37 ABSCESS. process of absorption on the one hand, or to the evacuation of the pus, and the providing for the adhesion of the parts by proper in- ternal treatment and dressings on the other. The matter of an Abscess is sometimes absorbed. —An abscess, when left to itself, like serous effusions in the natural cavities, or infiltrations in the cellular tissue, will sometimes be dis- persed ; the pus is absorbed either slowly or rapidly, the cavity in which it was deposited is effaced, the fluctuation of the fluid and the tumour which it formed can be no longer recognized. The process is effected by the sole and unassisted efforts of nature, with or without any remarkable phenomena; or while the abscess disappears in one place, another forms in a distant part; or finally, the resolu- tion of t he local inflammation, and the absorp- tion of the matter, are accompanied by some sudden and remarkable evacuations, such as diarrhoea, copious urine, depositing abundant sediment, viscid and odorous sweats, &c. : such cases are not unfrequent. As resolution is the best termination of inflammation, so is resorption the best also either of purulent collections or of serous effusions ; and whenever any reasonable hope of such an event can be entertained, from a due and salutary excitement of the powers of the economy, it should not be lost sight of. Allusion has been already made to the case observed by Mr. Wilmot, in which the pus of a psoas abscess was absorbed, and in which every trace of induration was finally dispersed by the use of a bandage and compress wet with a strong decoction of oak bark and alum. Mr. Crowther has also been successful in dis- persing large collections of matter without opening them. When the surgeon aims at effecting the absorption of the matter, he em- ploys, according to circumstances, internal or external remedies, or both conjointly ; for the former, purgatives, diuretics, diaphoretics, al- teratives, emetics, etc.; for the latter, fric- tions, with various stimulating substances, as iodine, muriate of ammonia, mercury, local bleeding with leeches, blisters, cold or hot effusions with simple or mineral waters, hem- lock, bath, good air, &c. This imitation of nature is, however, at best but a gross one ; for while she, for the most part, effects her purpose without much observable commotion, art can only produce a similar result by momen- tarily perturbing the actions of the economy. It is not by any means an easy matter to determine in what cases the surgeon ought to endeavour to promote the resorption of the matter; but nevertheless we may state gen- erally in what description of cases such an event has been observed to occur, either spon- taneously or by the effect of internal or re- vulsive medication. The resorption of matter takes place most commonly from abscesses formed in the lymphatic ganglions. In such cases, internal medication may be attended with salutary effects; but the practitioner should proceed with great caution, and hold himself ready to resign his hopes of succeed- ing in this point as soon as his first efforts to effect the dispersion of the abscess are found to be fruitless, and particularly if the stomach and bowels are too highly disturbed or irri- tated by the action of the medicines employed. External applications are observed to be most successful in the case of chronic abscess where the inflammation is moderate ; in such cases, iodine, muriate of ammonia, affusions, mercurial frictions, flying blisters, &c. may effect the dispersion of the collection ; but here again, our conduct must be cautious, for if they do not conduce to the end in view, they may render the local inflammation more active, and thus tend to the spontaneous open- ing of the tumour contrary to the wishes of the surgeon. On the other hand, the matter will in some instances be absorbed, while the treatment is directed to the maturation of the collection with a view to artificial or spon- taneous opening. Thus while the surgeon is combating the local pain, redness, heat, and tension by means of local bleeding, emollient applications, &c. the tumour diminishes, the fluctuation becomes less and less distinct, and the matter is absorbed. This event, however unlooked for, is nevertheless easily accounted for. Doubtless the continuation of the local stimulation which first gave rise to the puru- lent collection is one of the chief causes of its gradual increase ; for as long as it possesses any great degree of intensity, the cyst of the abscess remains vascular, tense, and painful, and its exhalation is continually adding to the quantity of pus already formed : the quantity and rapidity of this exhalation bears the same direct relation to the intensity of the local irritation, that the absorption of the matter, when it occurs, does to the abatement and final extinction of the inflammatory action in the tissues surrounding the pus. Under the influence of simple antiphlogistic treatment of the case we are now contemplating, the balance between exhalation and absorption is turned in favour of the latter, and this condi- tion being maintained by persistence in the antiphlogistic action, the pus is gradually re- moved, and the cure is obtained spontaneously. One word will suffice to expose the advan- tages arising out of the antiphlogistic course. When the inflammation runs high in the walls of the purulent cyst, the cyst treats the con- tained fluid as a foreign body, from which it seeks to be relieved, but if the local irritation be appeased, the pus is not so irreconcileably offensive to the powers of the organism, is not treated necessarily as a foreign body, but may be absorbed. Examples of the dispersion of abscess are not few, more particularly in the lymphatic ganglions, and in articular inflamma- tions. But whether the absorption of the matter be effected or not, the effect of the antiphlogistic treatment on the abscess is in itself useful and salutary ; when such treat- ment of abscess is adopted and steadily follow- ed out, the wall of the abscess is less vascular, less disposed to be excessively distended, the matter is better circumscribed, and when eva- cuated, the surrounding parts are more sus- ceptible of speedily reuniting. If therefore