ALUM. 65 softened by wear and freed from rough seams are the best for this purpose. The manner of arranging the aleze, in cases where the dejection of excrementitial matter is abundant, and at the same time involun- tary, as in serious wounds of viscera, or after parturition, is as follows:—the sheet being already made up into folds, one end of it is carried under the patient, beneath the part where the bed is liable to be soiled, the rest is folded up under the bed-clothes, or left spread across the bed ; when the first portion is soiled, it is drawn from under the patient and a clean part takes its place ; the soiled part is rolled up, according as it is withdrawn, until the whole length of the aleze has passed under the patient; a fresh one is then pro- cured, and being attached with pins to the first, is drawn under the patient in the same manner. The heads of the pins, used for this purpose should be placed in the direction in which the aleze is drawn, otherwise the patient may be pricked or wounded by them. When the liquid matter from a wound is so profuse as to be likely to penetrate through the folds of the aleze, the bed should be pro- tected by a piece of oil-cloth which, when soiled, should be changed and washed for fresh use. Sheets thus folded serve for several other uses in surgery ; they are employed in all im- portant operations, such as the amputation of limbs, cutting for the stone, opening abscesses, &c., to receive the blood, urine, or pus which may escape. ALPHONSIN, a bullet forceps, so named from its inventor, Alphonso Ferri; it is said also to have been invented by Andreas a Cruce. These forceps have been frequently reproduced under various forms, and palmed off as new inventions. In these latter times, Civiale’s invention of an instrument for the comminution of stone in the bladder, has been attributed to this source by persons who, with more industry than candour, were desirous of depreciating the importance of his labours. The Alphonsin has served as the model for Thomassini’s, Hunter’s, and other forceps of this kind, and consists of a tube terminating in three branches, which separate from each other by their elasticity, and which are again brought together and closed, by being received in another tube. ALUM, alun, Fr. Alaun, Ger. The name is of Arabic origin. Alum is a salt, consisting of sulphate of alumen with potass and ammo- nia. It occurs in large, white, semi-trans- !>arent masses, or in octahedral crystals, and las a sweetish, astringent taste. Its use in medicine is of very great antiquity, and at one time it may be said to have been the chief ingredient in most external applications. It is employed both internally and externally. As a styptic solution, it is made use of to arrest capillary haemorrhages from the mucous membrane of the nose, mouth, vagina, and uterus, and from bleeding surfaces. In obsti- VOL. i. nate epistaxis of young persons the aluminous solution may be aspired into the nostrils, or the alum may be snuffed up, five or six times a day, a few grains at a time, in fine powder. It has been also successfully employed in the form of injection in uterine haemorrhage per- sisting after parturition. Smellie recommends a sponge, steeped in a strong solution of alum, to be passed into the vagina. The haemor- rhoidal flux may be checked, when immode- rate, in the same way* or by the insertion of a plug well powdered with the alum. In the leech-bites of children it will often stanch the blood, and in situations where the practitioner would prefer keeping cauterization or com- pression in reserve, a small pointed cone of alum, applied and kept to the bleeding source, will be often sufficient to stop the flow of blood. The haemorrhage following the ex- traction of a tooth may be stopped in this way. It is employed also, in very small quantities in collyria, to astringe the vessels of the con- junctiva, when varicose or chronically en- gorged. St. Ives made use of alum in ptery- gium and albugo, in the form of a powder, composed of calcined alum, sugar, and phos- phate of lime. In powder, with powdered gum arabic, it has been used by insufflation in the back of the mouth, the pharynx, and top of the larynx, with a view to absterge, or de- tach the membranous flakes that are thrown out in some of the inflammations of these parts, as in the croup, angina, gangrenosa, or diphtheritis. Bretonneau, adopting the views of Areteus respecting the efficacy of alum in arresting these affections, obtained the most signal success in croup, which had ravaged certain departments of France as an epidemic in 1828. The powdered alum was blown into the back of the mouth, on the tonsils, pharynx, larynx, and backwards up the nostrils; this was repeated five or six times a-day, producing retching, and abundant flow of saliva for ten or fifteen minutes. From the first applica- tions, the formation and extension of the false membranes are checked, and in two or three days a favourable termination is induced. This treatment is also successful for the same form of exudation when it occurs on the nip- ples, external organs of generation, &c.; as well as in the pruritus of these organs. In the relaxation of the tonsils and uvula, and in the aphthous state of the mouth, it may, united with honey, or in the form of gargle, be advantageously had recourse to. M. Bennati published a work on the utility of aluminous gargles in some states of aphonia ; and Dr. Bureaud Rioffrey in his Memoir on Laryngitis bears testimony to its value as a remedy in these cases, and in restoring the vocal powers. Combined with white of egg and campho- rated spirit, it forms a liniment, which is use- ful as an application to chilblains, and to pro- tect parts from the ill effects of pressure in prolonged decubitus. When calcined it has slight catheretic pro- perties, and is employed in old ulcers, in which the granulations are pale, soft, cellular, F