CONGELATION. 8 22 flame and mortify. The nature of this effect we do not understand, but probably it has some analogy with another effect of heat, which has been often quoted to illustrate it. In cold countries it is well known, that fruit, fish, and other organized substances liable to putrefaction, if they have been congealed and suddenly heated, immediately putrify ; but if they be thawed gradually, taking the same precautions as with respect to frost-bitten parts, they keep fresh, just as if they had never been frozen. It is at least not improbable that the same effect of heat upon congealed orga- nized substances, which, if they are dead, ren- ders them prone to putrefaction, may, if they are living, render them prone to inflammation and mortification. From what hasbeensaid.it appears that the inflammatory affections resulting from cold are, in certain cases, produced immediately by the irritant action of sudden and intense cold, but that in the great majority of cases, they are pro- duced, not immediately by the cold but by the subsequent application of heat. It only re- mains to remark that there are certain cases of a mixed nature, in which both causes may conspire to produce inflammation. In such cases the imprudent application of heat may greatly aggravate the inflammatory symptoms, but no prudence can avert such a degree of inflammation, as is the effect of the direct irritant action of the cold. This it is impor- tant for the practitioner to bear in mind, that he may not reproach himself without cause on the occasional failure of his best directed en- deavours to keep down inflammation. The case of Captain Sabine’s servant quoted above was of this mixed kind. His hands had been suddenly exposed to a cold of — 43° Fahren- heit, sufficient to cause immediate inflamma- tion, but the continued application of cold by suspending the vital functions of the parts prevented all manifestations of reaction ; no sooner, however, was the vitality of the parts restored than inflammation came on, not- withstanding the precautions employed to prevent it. IV. TREATMENT. U'/, Preventive Treatment.—The preventive treatment which should be employed by per- sons exposed to a great degree of cold, con- sists in the use of the proper means for pre- venting the subtraction of the heat of the body, and for entertaining in a vigorous con- dition the functions concerned in the produc- tion of animal heat. For the first of these purposes the body ought to be protected by flannels, furs, and other articles of clothing which arc bad conductors of caloric, and have been ascertained by experience to be the best defence from the cold. Of the means of accomplishing the second purpose, a full nutri- tious diet with a considerable proportion of animal food is the most important. If wine or any other stimulants be employed, they should be taken merely as cordials to assist digestion, and always in great moderation, for if they are taken in excess, so as to cause vas- cular excitement, a state of collapse succeeds, which has been found by experience to be in the highest degree injurious to persons ex- posed to severe cold. Drowsiness is another effect of the imprudent indulgence in the use of intoxicating liquors, which is much to be dreaded. Many of the soldiers that perished during the Russian campaign never awoke from the sleep that followed intoxication. Exercise is another most important means of keeping up the heat of the body, and ward- ing oft' not congelation alone, but all the ail- ments that beset men exposed to great cold. It has often been found highly useful for per- sons suffering from cold to keep a watch over each other, so as to give timely notice of the occurrence of frost-bites, which as has been already remarked are frequently perceived by bv-standers before the individuals affected are aware of their existence. 2d, Primary stage of Congelation.—The great principle which has been approved by all experience as answering best for the treat- ment of parts in the first stage of congelation, is to bring them back to their natural tem- perature in so gradual a manner, that while we restore the vital functions of the parts, we do not excite in them a dangerous over-action. With this view the frost-bitten parts are to be rubbed with snow or immersed in cold water, and if the cold to which they have been ex- posed has been very great, the water employed should be first cooled down to the freezing point by the addition to it of pounded ice or snow. These means ought to be continued till the natural softness and pliability of the parts, and if possible also their sensibility be restored. While we thus endeavour to re-establish the circulation in the frozen parts with as little over-action as possible, we must be careful not to allow our precautions to be frustrated by the injudicious application of the stimulus of heat in a general way, or by the more free use of internal stimulants than may be absolutely required. It ought never to be forgotten that there is such aeon- sent throughout the various departments of the arterial system, that we will in vain endea- vour to keep down the action of one part if we allow the rest to become excited. The practice of bringing persons in the condition we are now considering into a warm room, of placing them before a large fire, or of bath- ing or fomenting them with hot water, is uniformly followed by the most disastrous consequences. On the contrary, the patient ought to be brought into an apartment of which the temperature to the feelings of the by-standers may seem cold, for to him that will at first be a sufficient transition from the inclemency of the external atmosphere. In this situation the local applications recom- mended above ought to be employed, and the patient should not be permitted to breathe a warmer air, till the hardness and rigidity of the frost-bitten parts have been removed. In the treatment of persons that have been