675 CANCER. passing food into the stomach ; if the object he to leave it in situ for some time, it should be introduced through the nares ; if it be used at each meal, through the mouth. The feelings of the patient are our best guide in making choice of either of these plans. The mode of introducing the tube is ex- plained in the article (Esophagus. The general treatment of cancerous affections should be adopted. Leeching the throat will lessen irritation and in some cases ma- terially relieve the dysphagia. Nutritious injections and baths are a last resource in cases of total obstruction. (g.) Abdominal Cavity.—Cancer ori- ginating in the small and upper part of the large intestines, in the post-peritonaeal, mesen- teric, mesocolic, &c. tissues belongs strictly to the province of medicine. Growths thus situated may, however, perforate the abdomi- nal parietes, fungate, and go through the stages of cancerous ulcers. A very interest- ing case of this kind has recently been related by Mr. Salter1. The disease was here pro- bably of the colloid species ; its exact seat is matter of doubt, as no autopsy was per- mitted. Some of the colloid substance discharged from the perforation was “ nearly as hard as cartilage ”—showing that the jellylike matter came away in lumps still contained in its loculi; under these cir- cumstances, as mentioned in the general description, this morbid substance is exceed- ingly firm. (h.) Rectum.—Cancerous disease of the rectum may either exist as a primary affec- tion or be propagated from the vagina, or vicinity of the anus. Frequently consecutive in females to utcro-vaginal cancer, it is not uncommonly a primary complaint, and com- paratively is rarely attended with multiple development of cancer in distant organs. Usually of the scirrhous or colloid species, the morbid matter may be either infiltrated in the walls of the bowel or present itself as a distinct tumour. In the former case a part only, or the entire, of the circumference of the bowel may be affected ; in the latter the tumour occupies a particular spot of the cylinder, and, in the greater number of sub- jects, its posterior aspect. The progress of the affection is the same as in other hollow viscera: fungating masses spring into the cavity of the gut after ulceration, and may be either firm or soft and pulpy. The diseased structure usually terminates abruptly both at the inferior and superior borders ; superiorly the bowel may be uniformly dilated, or form a lateral pouch with hypertrophv of the muscular tunic—in some cases there are, besides, simple ulcerations of the mu- cous membrane. These different particulars are well exhibited in figure 170, copied from Cruveilhicr. '-Provincial Med. and Surg. Trans, vol. v. p. 320*. loo/. Fig. 170. Fig- 170.—a, Anus; b, lower portion of rectum, healthy; c, walls of the gut greatly thic/eened with infiltration of colloid ; d, ulcerations; e, a pouch of the kind alluded to in the text. Longitudinal section of stratiform colloid carcinoma of the rectum. According to the remark of Bayle, small cancerous excrescences form on the skin round the anus, just as in the neighbourhood of mammary carcinoma. When cancer is primary in the rectum its most common seat is decidedly from two to three inches above the anus ; nevertheless Cruveilhier is perfectly justified in affirming that it does commence in all parts of the gut. The tendency of the disease is to spread upwards rather than downwards. Begin has known it extend to the transverse colon, transforming all the descending portion of that intestine into a scirrhous duct of three or four inches thickness in some parts of its walls, while the inferior three inches of the rectum had not suffered the slightest diseased change. Mr. Mayo has generally found the disease occupy from four to five inches of the bowel, but has seen it involve as many as sixteen. The degree of constriction varies : in Baillie’s plates', a specimen is figured through which a goose-quill could with diffi- 1 Fasc. iv. 1’]. iv. Fig. ‘2. X x 2