FRACTURE. 369 less completely turned inwards than in either of the luxations. The immobility of the whole limb in dislocation, as compared with the same in fracture, is a still further indica- tion of the true nature of the accident; the slight force w'ith which the foot may be everted (though productive of much pain), and flexion and extension of the thigh, when they can be performed, are very distinctive. Fracture through the trochanters with in- version of the foot, most resembles dislocation upon the dorsum of the ilium. Eversion of the foot also takes place to a considerable extent in the oblique fractures that occasionally happen through the tro- chanter major, without any injury of the neck of the bone. Three or four cases of falls on the feet or knees have occurred to Dupuytren, where the acetabula have been fractured and forced inwards by the head of the femur. It was in one of these that the head of the femur was forced, uninjured, and without any fracture of the neck, entirely into the pelvis ; and the neck of the bone was so forcibly encircled in the fractured acetabulum, that, though in the dead subject, it was only with great difficulty withdrawn. It is well to be aware that such difficulties occasionally exist. The shortening and immobility, in such a case, and the sinking of the trochanter, would be strongly marked. The subject of the reunion of fractures of the neck of the femur within the capsule, has received much illustration from the careful observations and judiciously recorded expe- rience of Sir A. Cooper. His remark, that in cases of transverse fracture within the capsular ligament, he had never met with bony union, or with any that did not admit of motion of one bone upon the other, has elicited much discussion ; but he never denied the possibility of reunion by bone, which is now recognised by many. The course which the investigation of this subject has taken is, however, not quite satis- factory to contemplate. The main consider- ation was, that in proportion as a fragment of the head of the femur was deprived of vascu- lar supply, its reunion must become arrested ; and every fresh set of observations, at home or abroad, has only tended to corroborate this opinion ; or to demonstrate that proofs to the contrary were defective. The rash inferences of many, and the overstrained deductions of the more careful opponents of Sir A. Cooper, are, I think, hardly entitled to more than the merit of having trimmed the lamp which he had lighted. Mr. S. Cooper says, that Sir Astley Cooper subsequently possessed a satisfactory specimen of bony union within the capsule. Mr. Bransby Cooper subsequently says, “ l am quite of Sir A. Cooper’s opinion, that fractures of the neck of the thigh-bone within the capsular ligament, do not, excepting under very peculiar circumstances, unite by bone, and that the exception occurs only when the periosteum and reflected membrane of the VOI.. II. neck of the bone have not been torn through, and when, therefore, the fractured surfaces are not separated from each other.” This gentleman justly advances, as grand impedi- ments to the reunion, advanced age, the want of nutrition to the peninsular bone, and the deficiency of soft callus to contract and co- aptate the fragments. I learn also, from Mr. B. Cooper, that to the last Sir Astley ex- pressed himself as never having seen a con- clusive illustration of that, which he could not still deny to be a possible occurrence : for my own part, I do not yet admit the belief, that after thirty years of age, even useful1 ligamentous union can take place after a com- plete transverse division of the neck of the femur; even though considerable bands of periosteum retain a connexion with the head. The circumstances that are said to induce ligamentous, rather than the bony union, are, such as the scanty nourishment supplied to the head of the bone when insulated from all connexions but the ligamentum teres ; and the want of close and steady contact of the fragments, aided by the occurrence of the accident most commonly in the weakened constitutions of aged people. All w'riters have been extremely ready to speak of ligamentous union of the fragments 2 in the cases in question; yet the deficiency of all organized reunion, is in the general not less remarkable than the want of new bone. Fig. 305 represents the rare case of liga- mentous union of the head ; but, notwithstand- ing the description of it, the inquirer should still reserve his judgment of the case. The proof that there has been fracture here, par- tial or complete, or any kind of injury at any age, is wanting altogether; and supposing that a fracture had preceded, its site, and the con- sequent condition of periosteum are unknown. Considering the case as it is, one of a massive ligamentous layer, like intervertebral sub- stance completely uniting two surfaces, it remains to be inquired—is it any thing more than imperfect union of an epiphysis, perhaps resulting from injury? but still more should we ask, seeing the neck of the bone is all lost by atrophy, where did the original division exist as relates to the capsule ? The parts are in the Museum at Guy’s Hospital. Mr. Howship records nine cases, occurring in females, only, between the years 1828 and 1833; aged, when the accidents happened, between 50 and 79 years. Only three were under 75 years of age. These patients sur- vived their injuries, respectively, 1, 2, 5, 5, 8, and 10 months, and 2, 8, and 14 years. The ages attained by the three last were, 79, 75, and 62 years. Thickenings of the articular capsule, wasting of the cervix femoris and 1 After all, the practical question relates only to useful reparation, and this in truth depends on thick- ening of soft tissues around. 2 If there be found no more than a few liga- mentous cords uniting the broken surface, the case is not worth speaking of, though I much doubt the cor- rectness of even these statements. B B