CANCER, PATHOLOGY OF. 626 the connexion of uterine and mammary can- cer with declining activity and cessation of the genital functions. We have ascertained the apparent reality of their connexion still further by comparing our results with a table showing the intensity of fecundity of women at the different periods of life in Sweden and Finland': from this curious document it ap- pears, that the intensity of fecundity, which had been pretty uniform from set. 25 to 40, suddenly falls to £ 0f its previous amount from set. 40 to 50. The mean age of the 1200 cancerous sub- jects at death was 59-4 years in the male sex; 56*1 in the female. The different species of cancer are far from being equally common at all ages: scirrhus is essentially a disease of adults, while encepha- loid is the form usually assumed by the mor- bid growth in young subjects ; colloid appears so far to have been only observed in adult in- dividuals. Again, the locality of carcinoma is mani- festly somewhat under the influence of age. Previously to puberty, the disease is most common in the eye, the lymphatic system, the brain2, and the cellular membrane of the ex- tremities ; the uterus, mamma, stomach, liver, intestines, and bones enjoy comparative immu- nity until the thirtieth year. Exceptions to this rule are no doubt met with; Dr. Cars- well is of opinion, that the exceptional oc- currence of the disease during infancy or early youth in the latter class of organs depends upon their premature or preter- natural functional excitement, and the state- ment appears to hold good in respect of the uterus, testes, and ovaries. 2. Sex.—The relative frequency of the disease in the two sexes may be learned from Mr. Farr’s published tables of the causes of death throughout England and Wales during the last half-year of 18373. Of 1228 indivi- duals who died of carcinoma during that pe- riod, 355 were males, 873 females. Though a certain degree of numerical superiority exists on the side of the female population, yet it is quite insufficient to account for the much higher quota of cancerous deaths in that sex ; for, by calculating the rate of mortality in proportion to the numbers living of each sex, we learn that the annual mortality from the disease is -103 per thousand in males, and 1 This, which is we believe the only table of the kind in existence, may be seen in Milne on Annuities, vol. li. p. 582. It is highly probable that the law of fecundity is the same in this country; at least the period of menstruation is sufficiently close in the two latitudes to render the existence of any material diffe- rence in this respect exceedingly unlikely. 2 Cruveilhier affirms that cancer of the brain is tbe “apanage of advanced age;” but Andral gives a table of forty-three cases, among which eight occurred be- fore the twentieth, and eighteen before the thirtieth year. (Clinique Medicale, t. v.) Dr. P. Ilennis Green has recently published a case of encephaloid of the brain occurring in a child aged twelve. (Lancet,Feb. 15, 1840.) 3 First Annual Report of the Registrar-General, &c. Appendix P. 1839. 8vo edition. •245 in females : the excess on the side of the latter is therefore as nearly as possible as 2-5 :1. This difference is the more remarkable, from the fact that the mean rate of mortality from all diseases is *20-8 per thousand among males, while it is 19-7 among females. 3. Temperament.—Of 44 cancerous subjects, whose original constitutional bias was suffi- ciently marked for purposes of observation, 20 were of lymphatic, 12 of sanguineous, 8 of bilious, and 2 of nervous temperament. This numerical result, obtained from personal ob- servation by M. Ferrus, has been since quoted as decisive of the influence of the lymphatic constitution on the disease. But (setting aside the smallness of the numbers from which the conclusion is derived) no in- ference of any kind can be drawn from them ; as the proportional frequency of the different temperaments in the individuals forming the floating population of the hospital, where the cases were observed, is not known. And in- deed as the hospital in question, the Salpe- triere, receives female patients only, in whom the lymphatic temperament is probably the most usual, unless such temperament were actually prophylactic against carcinoma, the result could be none other than that obtained by M. Ferrus. Connected with this opinion is the notion, likewise unproved, that ence- phaloid is of most frequent occurrence in scrofulous subjects. Sabatier conceived he had ascertained, from the experience of years, that women of high colour and sanguineous temperament were more subject to mammary cancer than those of different constitution l. Mr. Lever has nu- merically proved a similar position in respect of carcinoma of the uterus2. 4. Habitation of town or country.—Among the few positions stated by Breschet to be thoroughly established respecting the etiology of cancer is the following : “ this disease is as rare among persons employed in agriculture, and the country population generally, as it is common among the lower orders of the popu- lation of large towns.” The soundness of this doctrine may be tested by the tables of Mr. Farr. From these we learn, that in the metropolis 185 deaths occurred from cancer, while five counties of nearly equal population, Cornwall, Dorset- shire, Devonshire, Somersetshire, and Wilts, furnished 126 deaths from the same disease. But the excess, on the part of London, is not even so marked as would on first sight appear; for, calculating from the estimated populations in October, 1837, the annual mortality is "206 per thousand in the capital, *143 per thousand in the counties. And, again, the number of deaths from this affection in a number of our principal manufacturing towns (Leeds, Liver- pool, Manchester, Sheffield, &c.), with a total 1 Medecine Operatoirc, t. ii. p. 276. Parr (Diet, in voc.) affirms that he encountered the disease most frequently in persons of dark, cadaverous, and blue- brown complexion ! Rather a singular union of tints. 2 Med. Chir. Trans, vol. xxii. 1839.