FARCY. 180 in the acute fareinous glanders in man ; and multiplied abscesses on the body and limbs announce a general infection, and death with very few exceptions. It is these secondary symptoms, (I repeat,) particularly the erup- tion, which clearly distinguish acute farcy in man from the poisonings arising from the intro- duction of other morbid or putrid matter. The fareinous eruption shows itself at periods more or less distant from that of the inocula- tion of the glanderous or fareinous matter, sometimes on the fourteenth day, or later, about the third or fourth week. This erup- tion of pustules, accompanied with ecchymoses or gangrenous bullae, occurs on the face, body, limbs, and genitals ; it takes place almost always successively. If the surface of the body be examined with attention, on the fourth or fifth day of the eruption, nascent pustules are observed, under the form of a thick reddish papula ; others more advanced in form, like those of the pustular and globu- lar varicella ; others of larger size, resembling the pustules of ecthyma, or the bullae of rupia in a state of suppuration. We can thus under- stand how different pathologists, in order to give an idea of the fareinous eruption, have compared it, some to varicella, others to vari- ola, to vaccine, to the pustules of ecthyma, to boils, and to the suppurating pustules of yaws. But the fareinous eruption differs from all others in the general appearance of the erup- tion, in the specific nature of the matter of the pustules, and in the differences of aspect the pustules themselves present in their differ- ent periods, corresponding to differences in their structure. At first they form a solid reddish elevation, in which neither pus, nor fibrinous deposit is discovered. When more matured, we find under the epiderin a plastic matter, which does not flow like pus. If we take up some of it on the point of a needle we cannot obtain from it the smallest quantity of serum ; it does not even moisten the piece of glass on which it is spread. Examined by the microscope, it does not present distinctly pus globules, but we discover blood-globules in a state of alteration, several of which still preserve their peculiar form, and yellowish colour. Under this deposit of plastic lymph, the derm presents small red spots, and its sur- face appears not only depressed, but exco- riated. The pustules of acute farcy are, there- fore, formed by a small pseudo-membranous deposit, but this deposit is neither circular, nor depressed in the centre like the pseudo- membranous disc of variola ; neither are these pustules umbilicated like those of the variola. If we examine, in like manner, another in a more advanced state, larger, and more promi- nent, we find it, like the former, formed chiefly by plastic lymph, but it contains besides a small quantity of liquid pus. These fareinous pustules prominent on the skin, penetrate also into the substance of the derm, the tissue of which is partly destroyed, or its meshes are so widely separated, that no traces of them remain. This disposition, which is altogether peculiar, has not been observed in any other pustular eruption of the skin. Other pustules (those I compared to the pustules of rupia simplex in the state of sup- puration) present another arrangement ; the centre is occupied by a yellowish flat crust, the circumference of which is bathed in liquid pus of a white rose colour. When the crust, the epiderm, and pus are removed, the ex- posed chorion appears uneven on its surface, and infiltrated with blood. These points of the derm, seen under water, appear slightly villous. The fareinous eruption is preceded or ac- companied with abundant sweats, and at the same time, the skin of the cheeks, and other parts of the body, has been observed to be- come gangrenous. Another most striking character of the far- cinous angeioleucitis, similar to that of the solidipedes, is the appearance on different regions of the body, at points distant from the place of inoculation, and most frequently on the limbs, of soft, doughy, slightly elevated tumours, unaccompanied by much pain, and which almost always terminate by suppuration. Other abscesses, more or less extensive, pre- ceded by erysipelatous or phlegmonous inflam- mation, are formed under the skin in the limbs, at points varying in distance from the place of inoculation. The appearance of these ab- scesses is always preceded by pains along the limbs, and sometimes in the joints. It is right to observe, that in the human subject similar abscesses occur in angeioleucitis, and as a con- sequence of phlebitis independent of any far- cinous or glanderous eruption. In lying-in women, attacked with puerperal fever, uterine or ovaric phlebitis, abscesses sometimes are formed in different regions of the body, small purulent depots in the lungs, in the liver, and in the spleen, and even gangrenous affec- tions of the skin, and in the nasal fossae have been observed *. But I am not aware that in such cases the true glanderous or fareinous eruption has ever been observed. The phlebitis, which supervenes on ampu- tation for gun-shot wounds, &c. &c., is some- times followed by general phenomena of in- fection, and numerous abscesses ; but among the many cases I have consulted, no mention is made of fareinous cutaneous eruption ; and in a very considerable number of cases of phlebitis that have occurred within my own observation, I have never seen acute farcy. In order to distinguish these different kinds of infection, and these abscesses, from each other, the cause must be taken into account. Glanders, when it occurs ulteriorly, is also one of the distinctive characters of fareinous angeioleucitis, and of fareinous abscesses in the human subject. When the disease is progressing towards a fatal termination, and it terminates almost always so in cases of acute farcy with erup- 1 Raymond, Edw. Des Affections Gangreneuses, ob- scrvics chez les nouvclles Accoucliecs, in 4to. Paris, 1841.