ARTICULATIONS. 410 the pellicle, the cartilage, laid bare, offers rugosities.” 2. The bursae mucosae, which are structures in every way analogous to synovial membranes, the two being sometimes continuous and communicating with one another, as Meckel has pointed out, and the thecae of the tendons, are indisputably shut sacs. 3. We occasionallysee, in examining healthy joints, an extension of vessels from the free synovial membrane for a small distance over the surface of the cartilage. In examining the knee-joint of an adult foetus injected with fine size, I could distinctly trace a number of injected vessels crossing over the surface of the cartilage nearly half way to the centre of the articulating surface of the femur. It is admitted by Cruveilhier and Velpeau that it is impossible to point out the line of demarca- tion between the synovial membrane and the uncovered cartilage, and this admission, com- bined with the presence of vessels, may go far to show that no such line of demarcation exists. 4. If we appeal to morbid appearances, the evidence is equally conclusive. In examining preparations of joints in which the cartilage is still entire, it is impossible not to be struck with the shreds of membrane which are seen hanging from the cartilaginous surface, some- times light and flocculent, like floating villi, at other times broad and distinct. Whether these shreds are regarded as portions of syno- vial membrane, or as false membranes result- ing from inflammation ; they tend to prove the same point. Again, a cartilaginous sur- face may contract adhesions. Velpeau, with- out attempting to account for the phenomenon, affirms that after disarticulation, if union takes place by the first intention, the flaps adhere to the surface of the cartilage. In a case of osteo-sarcoma, affecting the lower portion of the femur, described by Sir B. Brodie, the femoral cartilage was found to be expanded over the tumour, and in several places to have contracted adhesions to the cartilage on the head of the tibia. In the Museum of Guy’s Hospital there is a preparation in which the cartilage of the patella remains entire while a fine cellulo-membranous adhesion, nearly an inch in length, is seen stretching from it to the femur, of which the cartilage has been re- moved by ulceration. Other preparations show the same phenomenon, but from the ankylosis being closer, not with the same in- disputable clearness. Mr. Mayo1 notices a similar appearance in a knee-joint preserved in the King’s College Museum. Under acute inflammation, red vessels are occasionally developed on the surface of the cartilage, spreading from the circumference to the centre, exactly as the vessels of the con- junctiva covering the transparent cornea, be- come developed under similar circumstances. “ In inflammation of these membranes,” says Beclard2, “ their redness, which at length bc- 1 Mcd.-Chir. Transactions, vol. xix. 2 Anatomie Generate. comes perceptible, extends itself upon the circumference of the cartilage, gradually be- coming less as we approach the centre of the membrane, identifying itself more and more with the cartilage ; the centre itself in the end is penetrated by vessels, but the carti- lage is coloured only on its surface, and pre- serves in its substance the white colour natu- ral to it.” I have never seen the redness ex- tending quite to the centre, but I have seen it advancing towards that point. There is a preparation in the Guy’s Museum which shows the synovial membrane of the semi- lunar cartilages, which does not naturally carry red blood densely injected, and in one of the cases detailed by Mr. Mayo', he states that the vessels of the synovial membrane, covering parts of the cartilage of the patella, the inner condyle and the semi-lunar carti- lages, were filled with injection. A few simi- lar facts will complete the argument. Hey, a most cautious observer, states2, that in a case of compound dislocation of the ankle-joint, he distinctly saw granulations arising from the cartilaginous surface of the astragalus. In three out of eight cases of the pulpy degene- ration of synovial membrane described by Sir B. Brodie3, the alteration had extended more or less completely over the cartilaginous sur- faces, the cartilage beneath remaining entire. Cruveilhier4 himself, states that he has seen fungous granulations arising from a cartila- ginous surface, and candidly admits his in- ability to account for the phenomenon con- sistently with his own hypothesis. Mr. Mayo cites a case similar to that detailed by Cru- veilhier. Lastly, we find that cartilage be- comes yellow in icterus, and that, in those cases of gout in which the urate of soda is copiously deposited in the interior of a joint, the deposit takes place not merely on the free synovial membrane, but also on that covering the cartilage. I have entered at length into the discussion of this question, not only because it is in itself of great importance, but also as it is inti- mately connected with some other disputed points presently to be brought under notice. The facts and arguments seem pretty conclu- sive, and I proceed to point out that the synovial membrane is more prone to disease than any other articular tissue. It is sus- ceptible of inflammation in all its forms. Cases have already been quoted in which an- kylosis had taken place between the cartila- ginous surfaces, and in which, consequently, there had been adhesive inflammation. In the first case cited, and in Sir B. Brodie’s work, there was found a thin flake of coagu- lated lymph about the size of a half crown- piece effused from the inner surface of the synovial membrane ; and the author states that he has seen several cases in which there was every reason to believe that inflammation 1 Med.-Chir. Transactions, vol. xix. 2 Practical Observations, &c. 3 Brodie on the Diseases of Joints. 1 Archives Generates do Medecine, 1824.