CALCULUS. 57 3 less degree ; whilst the irritable state of the kidneys and urinary passages, that invariably forms so marked a feature in the disease, must be allayed, and each particular cause of dis- turbance connected with these removed as speedily as circumstances will permit. The state of the stomach is an object of the highest importance. The regulation of the diet must precede and be made paramount to all kinds of medicinal means. Both the appetite and the powers of digestion are al- most always in the same degree impaired, so that the patient is here little inclined to com- mit errors of excess ; he must be no less par- ticular in the matter of quality. The food must be of the lightest and most nutritious kind, qualities that are happily combined in farinaceous articles prepared with milk. Where these agree they seem to supply as bland and congenial nutriment to the shat- tered frame as can be devised. Most of the white fishes, as whiting, haddock, sole, and turbot, eaten in great moderation, are gene- rally found easy of digestion. The white meats supplied by the poultry yard roasted, broiled, or boiled, are commonly recommend- ed ; they do not always agree so well, how- ever, as some of the darker kinds of meat. The flesh of a chicken will sometimes cause flatulence, and become acescent on a stomach that will digest perfectly a small quantity of tender mutton of full age, well roasted or nicely broiled. There is no kind of food which gives such a feeling of renewed strength to a patient who has suffered from an irritable state of system, and the secretion of urine superabounding in the phosphates, as a slice of roast or broiled mutton. A pullet’s egg softly boiled is among the most digestible, and also one of the most nourishing articles of human food. Made into pudding by long baking or boiling, it becomes however ex- tremely indigestible. Cocoa lightly made and free from oil is the best diluent at breakfast. Tea is always pernicious in irritable conditions of the system, and ought to be entirely re- nounced. Large quantities of fluid of any kind, indeed, are to be avoided in those states that are accompanied with deposition of the phosphates; the kidney is already in a state of erethism ; it is inclined to do too much, and is not likely to be quieted by having any thing like heavy duty thrown upon it. Instead of the lighter French and Rhenish wines, which have been recommended by very high authority in this form of malady, but which are objectionable, as having a decided ten- dency towards the kidneys, and often a posi- tive influence in augmenting the alkalescence of the urine, a glass or two of old dry sherry, diluted with half as much or an equal quan- tity of water, will be found far preferable'. The lighter wines with a full bouquet never fail to disagree with weak stomachs ; there is something peculiarly indigestible in the prin- ciple on which the odour and flavour of these wines depend. With regard to medicine, the bowels, which are so commonly sluggish and disordered, re- quire to be kept gently open. One comfort- able evacuation in the course of the four and twenty hours is just as indispensable as purg- ing is pernicious. Rhubarb and aloes com- bined ; rhubarb and senna, or castor oil in nicely adjusted doses by the mouth, and if need be an occasional glyster of tepid water to aid nature, will generally be found to an- swer the end of maintaining an open state of bowels. Saline medicines of any kind are objectionable in the phosphatic diathesis. When the combining acid is of vegetable origin, the salt is decomposed, in part at least, in the stomach, and the base passes by the kidney, increasing the alkaline state of the urine; when of mineral origin, the compound excites watery discharges by the bowels, which lower the patient and make matters worse. With due attention to every circumstance, by far the most valuable medicines we possess in that state of the system which is accom- panied with the too copious elaboration and deposition of the phosphates, is opium. It is, indeed, in these cases, worth all the rest of the materia medica, and may be used with an assurance of answering expec- tation, if it be but exhibited in such doses as will ensure its full effect, and this effect be kept up by repetition at regular intervals. There is probably no better form for prescrip- tion than the drug in its natural state, or in the shape of the watery extract made into a pill. The common tincture of the Pharmacopoeia with the addition of a few drops of muriatic acid, may be selected if the liquid form be preferred. The recently introduced salts of morphia (especially the chloride and the meconate) are also greatly to be commended. Far from destroying the appetite, and en- feebling the digestion, opium, or a salt of morphia, prescribed in the cases which are distinguished by the elaboration of phosphatic urine, will often be found to increase both the relish for food and the powers of the stomach to digest it; a fact which admits of easy ex- planation. When we have succeeded in quieting the excessive irritability of the system by opiates, and provided in some sort against its recur- rence and continuance by the regulation of the diet, open bowels, &c., we may begin the use of such general tonics as the bark, calumbo, gentian, &c., the preparations of iron, and the mineral acids. With these may be very ad- vantageously combined some one or other of 1 After some attention to this subject, which pecu- liar circumstances have afforded the writer opportu- produce of the vineyards of Xercs, in especial of those nities of paying, he ventures particularly to rccom- which are the property of the Domecq family, may mend the fine Spanish wine called Amontillado. This, he depended on, and are the proper cordials for inva- and the other carefully made wines, which are the lids, whenever this class of medicines is admissible.