312 FRACTURE. softening, or absorption, however, affects the provisional callus alone, and is, consequently, seen only in the first few months that follow a fracture ; at a later period, when the defini- tive callus is completely formed, the bone becomes more dense and firm than it origi- nally was, and is never absorbed. The fol- lowing well-attested case, in which, not only the callus resulting from a fractured humerus, but the whole bone was slowly absorbed, is, we believe, without parallel in the records of surgery. “ Mr. Brown, residing in Derne Street, Bos- ton, aged thirty-six, when in his eighteenth year, fractured the humerus near its middle. Under the care of a judicious surgeon, a reunion was favourably going on ; but before the curative process had been completed, the patient had another fall, and again broke the arm at the seat of the old fracture. Notwith- standing every care, the divided extremities would not adhere ; and to the surprise of the medical attendant, the shaft of each part of the divided bone began to diminish in size, and shorten in length. By a gradual action of the absorbents, the whole of the arm-bone, between the shoulder and the elbow, was at length completely removed, and that too, without any open ulcer, so that not a vestige of it was left. Mr. B. now, after many years, presents the spectacle of one short and one long arm. The right fore-arm and hand are of a size to correspond with the sound one on the left side, and, under certain circumstances, are equally as strong. Ordinarily, the right arm swings hither and thither, like a thong with a weight at the extremity ; for the fore- arm and hand, with reference to the division above the elbow, constitute a pendulum, oscil- lating according to the movements of the body. Although it is impossible to push with the defective arm, he can draw a burden towards himself with it as strongly and tenaciously as with the other ; and in so doing, the muscles are elongated, so that the arm is extended to its original length ; when the resistance is removed, the muscles instantly shorten them- selves about six inches. To show the perfect non-resistance of the apparatus of muscles, arteries, veins, and nerves in the soft, bone- less space, we saw him twist the palm of the hand twice round, which consequently pre- sented the strange anomaly of having all the apparatus of the arm twisted like the strands of a rope.” (Boston Med. and Surg. Journ. July, 1838, p. 368.) Cancerous affections of the bones induce fracture as before described (page 241), and it is certain that a tumour of considerable size and rapid growth may separate the divided parts of a bone in such a manner as to preclude the possibility of reunion ; but besides this, there does not appear to be any cause of non-union which belongs to the malignant disease, since ossification, as we have seen, continues during its progress, and often repairs the fractures which it has induced. “ Women labouring under cancer,” says Sir B. Brociie (Lond. Med. Gaz. xiii. p. 56, 1833), “are liable to a similar disease of different bones of the body, which then become brittle and very liable to break. I saw an old woman dying of this disease, who in turning in bed broke the femur ; union took place here as well as under ordinary circumstances. I attended a lady who had cancer of the breast, and a scirrhous affection of the collar bone, and one day in moving her arm, the collar bone was broken, but it united just as if it had been a healthy bone.” Mr. Liston (Practical Surgery, 2nd Ame- rican edition, p. 100) has recorded the case of a female, set. 49, affected with carcino- matous tumours under the jaw and in both breasts, as well as in the uterus, and other internal organs, in whom firm union occurred after two fractures of the left, and one of the right humerus, all received within fourteen months, and produced by very slight causes. Mr. Coates, and Sir Charles Bell (Lond. Med. Gaz. xiii.), have given, each a case, of fracture occurring in cancerous patients, where no sort of union had formed after eight and six weeks, and where cancerous matter was found deposited in the bones. “ Fragility of the bones.—The same cause which gives rise to undue fragility in the bony structure, might a priori be supposed to retard, if it did not altogether prevent their consolidation after fractures. Experience however proves this not to be the case, and generally indeed, it may be said, that where a proneness to fracture from trifling causes exists, these accidents are repaired with great facility. “ Scurvy fevers of a low type, or any other disease inducing great debility, or actual prostration, may also prevent the reparative process after fractures from taking place as in ordinary cases.” The cause of want of union is sometimes to be found in the general impoverished and bad state of the system, produced by improper abstinence from food, or the withdrawal of an habitual stimulus. The following cases illus- trative of this cause are given by Sir B. Brodie (Lond. Med. Gaz. xiii. p. 56, 1833). “ A gentleman was growing fat, and not liking to do so, he placed himself on a very slim diet, though accustomed to good living pre- viously. After six months of starvation, he broke his arm, and the bone would not unite. I saw him many months afterwards, and there was scarcely any union, even by soft sub- stance. Another patient about whom I was consulted, a lady, was growing fat, and thought she would also prevent it, by pur- suing a similar system of diet. Some months afterwards she broke her arm, and union did not take place.” A striking instance of the same cause in preventing union is related by M. Noel (Prix de 1’Acad, de Chirurg. v. p. 45, 8vo, Paris, 1819), of a girl, setat. 18, of good constitution, in whom no attempt at union had taken place after a fracture of the leg at