CLUB-FOOT. 788 of treatment just specified, the circumstances of the case should he minutely investigated, especially with reference to the origin of the deformity, as this may suggest important modifications of the treatment. When the disturbance of the equilibrium of the muscles is a consequence of paralysis of the anterior muscles of the leg, if there is any ground for suspecting that the cause of the paralysis is still in action, attention must be directed to the central organs of the nervous system, and the case must be treated as one of simple paralysis. In the purely spasmodic affection of the muscles we must also endeavour to ascertain whether any of the remoter sources of irritation, already alluded to, are in opera- tion ; since the medical treatment calculated to relieve that derangement of function, whe- ther of the nervous system, of the digestive apparatus, or any other organ, which has given rise to the mischief, may, at the same time, remove the deformity, or, at any rate, dispose it to yield more readily to mechanical re- sources. Dr. Little’s three instructive cases, xxv., xxvi., and xxvii. forcibly illustrate the practical importance of this preliminary scru- tiny. 1st. The mechanical treatment. Whether or not Hippocrates, as some have supposed, contemplated the cure of club-foot by the section of tendons, there can be no doubt that he treated these deformities successfully by bandaging1 * 3. Our hopes of success, how- ever, by this method must always be restricted to the earlier stages of the affection: when the deformity has been confirmed by time, no effectual amendment can be expected from the application of bandages. More powerful mechanical aid has, therefore, been sought in the adaptation of a variety of apparatus to this object, composed wholly of leather or paste- board, or of leather strengthened by metallic plates, bars, or springs. Plaster of Paris has been made use of for this purpose with some degree of success. In cases where the deviation from the natural standard is but slight in degree, and requires but moderate force to overcome it, as during the early period of congenital club-foot, the deformity may be wholly rectified by means of plaster of Paris, or even by the use of bandages steeped in a solution of dextrine, starch, or any of the pastes employed of late in the new method of treating fractures *. (See Art. Fracturf.) MM. Velpeau, Guerin, Dr. Dieffenbach, and others, have published favourable reports of the efficacy of the plaster of Paris treatment. The following is Dr. 1 Atqne hffic quidem curatio, quae neque sectionem neqne ustionem, neque aliam varietatem ullo modo postulat. Ista namque opinionc celerius curationi cedunt. Tempore tamen superanda sunt, quoad justo liabitu corporis incrementum acceperit. Hippocrates De Articulis, sect. vi. 3 In his observations, appended to Gataker’s trans- lation of Le Dran, Cheselden speaks of having suc- cessfully treated Club-foot and fractures by enve- loping the limb in a bandage dipped in a mixture of flour and white of eggs, p. 452. Diefflenbach’s method of proceeding1. Hav- ing prepared a box for the reception of the foot and leg, well oiled over its inner surface, he places the limb, also well oiled, within it. Fluid gypsum is then poured over it, and the foot is retained, by the hand, in a position as nearly as possible approaching the natural form, until the gypsum is sufficiently hardened to maintain it. In three weeks or a month, as soon as the foot has acquired a better form, another plan is adopted : the foot being en- veloped by straps of adhesive plaster, a roller is applied, and a diluted mixture of the plaster of Paris is spread over it with a brush ; when dry, a second coat is applied, and this is re- peated three or four times, to give the whole a considerable degree of solidity. On the day following, the surface is varnished over with a solution of resin in spirit of wine (in the proportion of 3j to Jj), and in this state it may remaip, without inconvenience, for months. If pain should be complained of, a portion of the bandage may be cut away, and any vesica- tion or excoriation healed without detaching the entire case. In selecting cases adapted to this method of treatment, we must be guided by the degree to which the foot can be approximated to its natural form : if much flexibility exists, and the surgeon is consulted at an early period, a successful issue may be confidently predicted. If the distortion is great, and the tarsal bones yield but little to the application of force, should an operation be objected to by the friends of the patient, we must resort to more powerful mechanical means for accomplishing our object. A great variety of machines have been in- vented for this purpose, many of them derived from the ingenuity of non-professional mecha- nics. Those devised by Scarpa, Colles, Del- pech, Graefe, Langenbeck, Heine, Delacroix, &c. are exceptions ; but, till within the last few years, it has been the practice of surgeons, both in this country and on the continent, to turn over such cases to the care of the mecha- nic, and leave the patient entirely in his hands. The apparatus, fig. 174, applied by Dr. Little after division of the tendons in varus, is a modification for the better of Scarpa’s boot. Dr. Colles employed a leather shoe with a pair of tin splints attached to it. Langenbeck’s machine for the cure of pes equinus is very similar to that used by Stromeyer, (fig. 175,) after division of the tendo achillis. Fig. 176 is Delacroix’s instrument; his power of exten- sion was obtained by means of a gun-spring, constantly acting by a chain and rack upon the tendo achillis. Delacroix, likewise, brought the weight of the body to act powerfully in extending the tendon, by placing the feet of his patient in a pair of stocks, or narrow boxes screwed upon a board supported by a couple of rocking feet. By daily exercising the con- tracted muscles in this manner, he gradually 1 Sec Caspar's Wochenselirift fur die jresanimte Heilkunde.