ECTOPIA. 59 suiting states the following names have been given : X 1. Cyphosis X 2. Lordosis 1 2. X 3. Scoliosis 3. In cyphosis the convexity of the curvature is backwards ; in lordosis forwards ; in scolio- sis sidewards. The vertical axis of the entire frame undergoes curvature in certain cases of tetanus, &c.—a condition termed emprosthoto- nos 4, opisthotonos 5, and plurothotonos 6, when the convexity of the curvature is respectively forwards, backwards, or to either side. The degree of incurvation of the long ! bones, sometimes witnessed, is so extreme as to amount to actual distortion. Distortion is, however, best exemplified in the species of malposition termed club-foot and club-hand, which, though most commonly of congenital origin, are not unfrequently developed after birth. The varieties of this displacement are described and illustrated by figures in the article club-foot. An important example of this class of ecto- pise is furnished by irregular deviation of excretory canals. IV. Changes in the mutual relations OF THE SURFACES OF HOLLOW ORGANS. Such is the main distinctive character of the follow- ing kinds of displacement: v Inversion. £ Invagination, o Sacculation. Inversion is that condition of a hollow organ in which its external surface becomes its internal, and its internal external. It may evidently from its nature exist in different degrees; and in the uterus, the organ most prone to this species of displacement, four of these have been established. In the first, or least marked, the upper wall of the fundus is slightly depressed, so that it presents in- feriorly a convex, and superiorly a concave or cupulated surface. In the second the fundus has fallen into the cavity of the cervix, and in some cases protrudes slightly at the os tincse. In the third the fundus passes into the vagina, the cervix is also inverted, the os alone remains unchanged in its position, and em- braces the neck tightly. In the fourth, not only the os, but part ot the vagina is inverted, and the uterus hangs between the thighs. Figs. 205. and 206. exhibit the condition of the parts, the first shortly after the occur- rence of inversion; and the second many months subsequently to this. Inversion may commence with the cervix uteri instead of with the fundus, in which case the internal surface of the cervix becomes 1 Kvtpuxris, from Kutpos, curved. 2 Xo(>ooxris, from \opSos, curved. 3 (tkoXiuxtis, from okoXios, oblique. * i/jLirpoadorovia, from tp-rrpoodsv, before, and Ttn/cu, I stretch. 5 oirtcdoTovia, from oiriaSrtv, backwards, and TtlVUt. 0 From irXtupo^rv, sidewards, and Ttn/tu. Fig. 205. Fig. 205, Appearance of inverted uterus protruding be- yond the external parts, fifteen days after delivery, [after Boivinand Duges]: a a, mans veneris; b b, labia; c c, nymphee ; d, clitoris ; e, meatus urinarius; f, an- terior external border of the vagina ; g, anterior border of the external orifice of the uterus : h h, internal sur- face of the uterus become external; i i, circular lines of the layer of concentric fibres; jjj, projecting points where the placenta had been attached. Fig. 206. Fig. 206, Appearance of an inverted uterus two years after parturition [after Segard, Theses de Paris No. 246, 1834] : A A, labia ; a a, nymphee; B B, vagina ; its rugae effaced from being stretched; tr, stylet introduced from above into the cavity formed by the inverted uterus, and passed through an incision in the body into the vagina; the round ligaments, those of the ovaries and the Fallopian tubes, are seen drawn into the adventitious cavity ; x x, bristles passed into the orifices of the Fallopian tubes; D D, round ligaments ; E E, Fallopian tubes ; F F, ova- ries. external; and its external surface is brought into more or less close contact with the ex- ternal surface of the portion of the organ above it. Boivin and Duges term this con- dition extroversion of the cervix : their draw- ing of it is copied in Fig. 207.