23 6 FISTULA, VESICO-VAGINAL. such a length as to make allowance for the re- traction which takes place in it during the stage of suppuration. In order to secure the flap in its place while the points of suture are being placed, a thread is passed through its upper edge, and a catheter being introduced through the urethra and fistula into the vagina, the thread is passed through the eyes of the catheter, and is thus drawn out and given to be held to an assistant. “ I then introduce,” says M. Jobert, “ my finger along the flap, sliding over it a curved needle, fixed in the porte-aiguille used in the operation for staphyloraphy, or I direct it solely with the hand. At one stroke the angle of the flap and the edge of the fis- tula are transfixed, and the needle, armed with a ligature, is withdrawn, by means of a pair of dressing forceps. The same is done with the opposite angle. As soon as the points of su- ture are placed, they should be tied at once, to secure perfect contact. The threads are secured externally ; and they come away from the tenth to the fourteenth day.” The next thing is to prevent the accumula- tion of urine in the bladder, and to secure for it a free and constant flow. This can only be effected by placing and keeping in the urethra a catheter of full size. The thread first em- ployed should be passed down this catheter, as the ulceration it might occasion in the urethra will be thus prevented. The patient is placed in the horizontal position, and strict rest is enjoined. The period for the division of the flap must, of course, depend on the sufficient vitality and adhesion of its upper portion, as well as the Fig. 272. Jobert's mellwd. A flap, taken from the la/num and neighbouring integuments, is turned doum upon the fistula, which it obturates. It is held in its place by four points of suture. patient’s state of health. The safest course is, not to be in a hurry. M. Jobert does not di- vide it till the thirtieth or fortieth day ; and even this may be premature. In making the division, due allowance must be made for the further retraction which will take place ; it should not be divided higher up than one-half of its entire length. The external wound resulting from the transplantation, may be treated by adhesive straps or sutures; but care should be taken that no pressure be made at the lower part of the wound, that might interfere with the due supply of blood to the pedicle of the flap. M. Jobert thus describes the consecutive phe- nomena observed by him : “As soon as the parts are brought into contact, an exudation of blood takes place in the bladder, w'hich is voided by the catheter ; the same oozing occurs also in the vagina. The wounded surface of the flap soon becomes covered with lymph ; the urine becomes turbid, owing to the pus given out from the upper part of the flap ; and this con- tinues for an indefinite period, or until the upper part of the flap contracting, it becomes levelled with the surface of the bladder. I have seen it persist for twenty-five days. “ The section of the pedicle gives rise to more or less haemorrhage ; and both ends of the flap soon retract. The transplanted por- tion, now living in its new situation, is liable, like other tissues, to various diseases ; and hence it inflames, not only from the slightest contact with the urine, but even by the effects of the incision; and hence, when red and swollen, it is observed to extend out of the vagina. In this state it is engorged ; suppu- ration soon takes place ; and as this diminishes, it retracts within the vagina. Thus I have seen the flap, when divided, retract, to come forth again during the inflammatory stage, and again retract to such a degree, as not to be seen without expanding the labia, and de- pressing the posterior commissure. “ It is worthy of remark, that the flap, though enjoying life, no longer possesses sen- sibility, all communication with the great ner- vous centres being cut off.” Palliative Treatment.—In too many cases all the efforts of the surgeon are limited to the palliation of the inconvenience and distress arising from the constant flow of the urine. On this point cleanliness is the first consider- ation. Not only can there be no effectual protection of the labia, and surrounding parts, from the acridity of the urine without clean- liness ; but any neglect of it cannot fail to add to the miseries of the infirmity, condemn- ing the unhappy patient to exclusion from so- ciety, on account of the offensive smell which her person and clothing exhale. It is of great consequence, therefore, to re- gulate the evacuation of the urine ; and a va- riety of ingenious contrivances have been imagined for this purpose. Mr. Barnes, of Exeter, has employed an elongated caoutchouc bottle, which, when placed in the vagina, pre- sents an opening corresponding to the fistula.