EAR, AND HEARING, DISEASES OF. 10 In cases of a mere membranous septum, the same difficulties do not present themselves. A crucial incision being made, the flaps of membrane are to be cut away, and their roots touched with lunar caustic. Contraction of the auditory passage from exos- tosis.—Autenrieth 1 found in a woman forty- nine years old, an exostosis springing from the upper and posterior side of the osseous part of the right auditory passage. The growth was separated by a groove from the other parts of the temporal bone, and inter- nally was quite cellular. The auditory pas- sage was in the middle reduced to a mere vertical fissure, scarcely a line broad. It was not so much contracted at its entrance, and towards the tympanum it retained its natural width. Collapse of the auditory passage. — Baron Larrey has written a paper2 on a contraction and misdirection of the auditory passage, pro- ducing deafness in consequence of pressure on its walls by the condyloid process of the lower jaw, which had become displaced from loss of the back teeth. He also mentions that the same effect on the auditory passage is produced by swollen glands in the neighbour- hood, and bad cicatrices after wounds. Boyer3 describes a falling together of the walls of the auditory passage. I have seen cases in which the anterior and posterior walls of the cartila- ginous portion of the passage came nearly to touch each other, but, far from having been the cause of the accompanying deafness, it ap- peared to me rather the consequence of the habit the persons had contracted of applying the hand behind the auricle, and pressing it forwards, more readily to catch sounds. Larrey and Boyer, in the cases described by them, say that advantage was derived from a small tube inserted into the passage. Larrey’s tube was of caoutchouc, Boyer’s of gold. Wounds of the walls of the auditory passage.— Wounds of the membrana tympani, and even of the labyrinth, have been inflicted by point- ed instruments accidentally forced along the auditory passage. In consequence, however, of the curvature of the passage, the instru- ment or other wounding body is more likely to be arrested by its walls. An officer was thrown from his horse, and the right side of the head came against some cut branches of an oak tree. Excessive pain was felt in the ear. The auricle was found considerably bruised and lacerated, and the concha and meatus filled with blood. The ear was sy- ringed and the wound dressed. Local pain and irritation increased, accompanied by fever and slight delirium, which, however, became alleviated in a few days on the discharge of pus from the passage. There was deafness. ' Reil’s Archiv fur die Physiologic, Bd. ix. p. 349. 2 Notice sur une cause particuliere de Surdite, in- conmic jusqu’ace jour, suivicd’observations. In Jour- ' nal complementaire du Dictionnairc des Sciences Me- dians, tome xiii. Paris, 1822, p. 308. 3 Traite dcs Maladies Cliirurgicales. Paris, 1822, tome vi. p. 10. In this state the patient came under the care of Mr. Stevenson *, who discovered and ex- tracted a splinter of oak about five-eighths of an inch long by two-eighths broad, one ex- tremity of which being pointed, had pene- trated anteriorly, and in an oblique direction, to the depth of nearly two lines, between the lining integument and wall of the bony part of the passage, close to the membrana tym- pani. Foreign bodies in the auditory passage.—Fo- reign bodies getting into the ear, such as cherry-stones, peas, beans, grains of corn, glass beads, &c. though they may sometimes not produce any great inconvenience, gene- rally give rise to more or less inflammation and otorrhcea ; occasionally great constitu- tional disturbance, cerebral affections, and even death, have resulted. Foreign bodies are frequently very difficult of removal. No precise directions can be given on the subject, as every thing must de- pend on the dexterity of the surgeon, and his ingenuity in devising means fitted for the exi- gencies of the case. This much may be said, a small narrow curved spatula-like instrument employed as a lever, and a small eye-hook, will be found the readiest and most effectual in- struments for turning out the foreign body. It may also sometimes be engaged in a loop of wire and drawn out as a cork out of a bot- tle. Forceps is not at all adapted for the purpose, if the body be round and hard. Of course the instrument is to be insinuated be- tween the foreign body and the wall of the passage where the widest chink is. Some recommend the instrument to be passed along the lower wall of the passage by preference, as by such a proceeding it will less quickly approach the membrana tympani. Deleau2, on the other hand, considers that the object is more surely effected, and that with less danger to the membrana tympani, by passing the instrument along the lateral walls. On this point the following observation of M. Lenoir, quoted in the surgical treatise of M. Vidal3 is worthy of being considered ; viz. that the orifice of the external auditory pas- sage, the form of which is more or less ellip- tical, has, in infants, its longer diameter in a transverse direction, whilst, in adults, and es- pecially in old persons, the contrary is the case. From this it follows, that in using a curette or hook for the extraction of a foreign body from the ear of an infant, it is not the inferior or superior wall of the passage along which the instrument should be carried, as in the adult, but rather its posterior wall. In a case in which a small stone had made its way through the membrana tympani, by ulceration and perforation, into the cavity of the tympanum, Deleau 4 succeeded in forcing it out by means of injections of water sent in 1 Edinburgh Med. and Surg. Journal, vol. xi. p. 81. 2 Gazette Medicale de Pam, 2ieme seric, tome ii. 1834, p. 161—163. 3 Tom. iv. p. 21. * Op. cit. t. iii. 1835, p. 303.