123 ENCEPHALOCELE. tions. Mr. Mills has given the particulars of a case, in which the protrusion took place be- tween the lower portion of the frontal bone and the nasal bonesl. This we can easily understand ; for a space intervenes between the nasal processes of the frontal bones, in the earlier weeks of intra-uterine life. Saxtorph, Moreau, and Breschet, each also give a case at the root of the nose. That of the latter resembled the case of Mr. Mills, forming a tumour between the eyes2. Breschet gives another case, in which the protrusion occur- red at the internal angle of the right eye, to the right of the root of the nose, between the os unguis and its articulation to the os frontis3. The upper part of the occipital bone is some- times altogether wanting ; in other cases, the separate bony pieces of which it is composed in the foetus never become united, and thus openings are left. There is a skull in the Museum of the Royal College of Surgeons, in which the ossa triquetra are so large, that the portion of occipital bone above the transverse ridge is divided by them into three sections. Cruveilhier gives a drawing of a case, in which the posterior portion of this bone was entirely wanting 4. Isenflamm5 * gives a case,in which the foramen magnum, greatly enlarged, gave passage to the hernia ; and similar cases are related by Meckel, Conradi, Baillie, and Voigtel. The frequency of the occur- rence of encephalocele through the occipital bone is accounted for by its ossification taking place from four points, which unite in the central tuberosity about the third or fourth month, leaving a fissure above and below. The annexed cut, from Mr. Adams’s paper in the second volume of the Dublin Journal of Medical Science, shows the state of the bone at the eighth or ninth week, when it consists but of two lateral portions, lying between the posterior fontanelle and the foramen magnum, and separated by the median fissure. Fig. 236. aa, median division ; bl>, two late- ral parts of the proper occipital portion ; cc, the condyloid pro- cesses ; d, the cuneiform pro- cess. In M. Salleneuve’s case, to which we shall hereafter refer, the protrusion occupied the situation where the parietal, temporal, and occipital bones approach each other. M. Serres observed a case of congenital encc- phalocele which passed through the base of the cranium into the pharynx, the base of the cranium being bifid. The case of Dr. 1 An Account of the Morbid Appearances exhibited on Dissection in various Disorders of the Brain. Dublin, 182b'. |>. 25. s Archives Gen de Med. tom. xxvi. p. 74. 3 Op. cit. p. 76. * Anat. Path. liv. xix. pi. 5. 5 Recherches Anatomiques. Erlangen, 1822. Mc- moire 5. Ben net, which we shall presently notice, is probably the only one on record existing at the same time on both sides of the head. The cavity of the cranium is usually dimi- nished in proportion with the size of the tumour, and cases have' been observed by Montgomery and others, in which the sutures and fontanelles were completely closed, the situation of the protrusion being the only un- ossified part of the head. The form of the orifice may be circular, oval, or triangular, and the edges in every case on record, except one by Mr. Adams, were rounded off and generally thinner than the surrounding bone. In Mr. Adams’ case the}7 were “ rough and elevated.” The contents of the tumour may be some portion of cerebrum or cerebellum, the whole of the latter, or a partial hypertrophy of some part of either, with a variable quantity of serum. When this is in considerable quantity it constitutes hydrencephalocele. It may be seated either between the two layers of arach- noid, or distending the ventricles, the tumour containing a mere layer of cerebral matter. Thus, in a case related by M. Jules Cloquet", in which the protruded portion passed through the posterior fontanelle, the convolutions of the displaced portion of brain had entirely disappeared, and formed the walls of a large cavity filled with transparent serum, which communicated by a narrow passage with the left ventricle. This child died immediately after birth. The following table shows the seat of the protrusion in sixty-three cases, which are all l have been able to find recorded. Through an opening in the occipital bone 24 the foramen magnum 7 posterior fontanelle 4 anterior ditto 3 At the root of the nose 5 Between os unguis and os frontis 1 Lambdoid suture 2 Temporo-occipital suture 1 Fronto-parietal suture 1 Frontal suture ..... 8 Between frontal and nasal bones 2 Just over right eye 2 left eye 1 Deficiency of temporal bones I Through base of skull 1 63 The coverings are the skin and subcutaneous cellular tissue, epicranial aponeurosis, dura mater and arachnoid. Delpech enumerates the pericranium as one of the coverings, and Bres- chet describes it in his fourteenth observation. All these layers however are so united that they cannot be separated. The size is very variable. Some have been noticed not larger than a nut, while Gis- tren speaks of one which was eighteen inches in circumference, and Reisel of one which was larger than the head of the infant. The 1 Diclionnaire de Medecine, tom. xii. p. 6.