ARTICULATIONS. 408 vertebral substance. Sir Astley Cooper 1 be- lieves psoas abscess to commence by disease between the spinal ligaments and interverte- bral substance ; with this opinion Mr. Key2 coincides, believing that the fibro-cartilaginous tissue being little organised, and incapable of resisting the tendency to break down and ulcerate, is often the first structure attacked, while the bone, more vascular and highly or- ganised, resists. A softened and apparently swollen state of this tissue is not unfrequently met with, and may be reasonably supposed to constitute the first stage of the ulcerative process. Fibro-cartilage shows a remarkable power of resisting the effects of pressure, and is sometimes found entire when the bodies of the vertebras have been almost entirely re- moved by the pressure of an aneurismal sac. This is commonly attributed to the feeble- ness of organization, but may be also ascribed in a great measure to the remarkable elas- ticity with which this tissue is endowed. In fine, the fibro-cartilage has a strong tendency to ossification. Ankylosis of the bodies of the vertebrae is one of the most common of senile changes, and I have seen the cotyloid ligament of the acetabulum completely ossi- fied, and forming a very distinct rim around the articulation. 3. Ligament.—Ligamentous tissue is met with in articulations in two forms : either as a broad layer of membrane enveloping the heads of the bones, and expanded on their surfaces, or in narrow funicular processes, stretching like cords between two points, and connected to bone only at the two extremities. It pre- sents well-marked fibres, white, silvery, flexi- ble, inelastic, and readily separable by mace- rations ; no nerves, and but few vessels have been traced into its substance. It has no contractility, and in the healthy state, no sen- sibility. The important part which ligaments perform in articulations, and their liability to external injuries, furnish a presumption, that they contribute in no small measure to the diseases of these organs : but observations are as yet wanting to prove that they are the nidus of any serious articular disease. “ I have never,” says Sir B. Brodie3, “ met with a case where disease (independently of the effects of accident or of syphilis) was proved by dissection to have originated in the liga- ments, and it may be safely asserted that this is a rare occurrence, and not what happens in the ordinary diseases to which joints are liable.” Mr. S. Cooper4 advanced many years ago, the opinion that white swellings generally commence in the ligaments, and within the last few years Mr. Key5 has pointed out as a very common cause of disease in the hip-joint, ulceration of the ligamentum teres. In proof of this latter opinion, some striking cases are adduced, and those who are in the habit of 1 Sir A. Cooper’s Surgical Lectures in the “ Lancet.” 2 Med. Chir. Transactions, vol. xviii. p. 1. 3 Brodie on the Diseases of Joints. 4 Vide Mr. Cooper’s Jacksonian Prize Essay. 5 Med. Chir. Transactions, vol. xviii. p. 1. examining diseased joints must have frequently observed this appearance. In fact, the fre- quency of its occurrence is sufficiently attested by the common spectacle of luxated femur following morbus coxarius. It will, however, be remembered, that when caries is proceed- ing, the ligaments rapidly lose their connex- ion with the carious surface. If, therefore, there be truth in the opinion already stated, that disease of the hip-joint, like disease of other articulations, frequently commences in caries of the articular extremities of bone, there will be some reason for believing that the destruction of the ligamentum teres arises from this source, and is a secondary not a primary lesion. It is, however, unquestiona- ble, that ulceration of ligamentous tissue may take place, as the primary lesion. In the Museum of Guy’s Hospital is a preparation in which the transverse ligament of the atlas has been ruptured in consequence of ulcera- tion, and in which the ligament seems to be the only tissue affected. The early appear- ances of inflammation of ligaments have been very clearly described by Mr. Key. He states that the ligament becomes distended and feels pulpy; the fibres are found separated by a vascular structure which, on injection, has a villous appearance. This interstitial vascular mass is the reticular membrane that unites the ligamentous fibres. It becomes very vascular while the ligamentous fibres retain their natural glistening appearance, until at length they become softened and pulpy previously to undergoing absorption. Although the ligaments are not as yet proved to originate any of the more serious diseases of joints, yet we seldom fail to find them implicated in the diseases which have commenced in other tissues. Intimately con- nected with both synovial membrane and bone, morbid changes are rapidly propagated to them from these tissues. In the advanced stage of ulceration of cartilage, or articular osteitis, the ligaments are frequently indis- cernible in the mass of altered synovial mem- brane and cellular tissue, densely infiltrated with lymph which surrounds the joint. It is not improbable that they play an important part in producing the pain which attends dis- eased joints, as from their firm and unyielding character, they offer a great resistance to the distension occasioned by the accumulation of fluids within the cavity. Among the few morbid changes of liga- ments with which we are acquainted, the state termed diastasis, or relaxation, must not bo forgotten. This is a condition gradually brought about by the long continued applica- tion of some elongating or distending force. Thus we see it frequently after the cure of hydrops articuli, or in the knees of children, who, from ill-health or other causes, not learn- ing to walk, are carried on the arm of a nurse, with the legs hanging down unsupported, or in the shoulder-joints of persons whose arms are paralytic, and in whom the muscles, which form an important portion of the capsular