BLOOD-LETTING. 487 When a large quantity of blood is not taken away at the first bleeding, or at a second quickly succeeding it, I have generally found that on all future occasions it is seldom practicable to abstract any very considerable quantity, however much it may appear neces- sary. Causes of Failure in Venesection.—It has been hitherto taken for granted that the surgeon has it always in his power to abstract whatever quantity he may deem necessary. This, how- ever, is not the case, or at least the requisite quantity of blood is not always obtained with- out some difficulty ; and nothing is more com- mon than to hear of patients suffering from not having lost a sufficient quantity of blood, and affirming that it was impossible to bleed to the desired extent. This is a dangerous maxim, and I have ever contended that any quantity of blood deemed necessary, can, by some means or other, be obtained in every case. Should the veins in the arm be inadequate for this purpose, then phlebotomy may be performed on the jugular veins, or veins of the wrist or feet; and in cases of danger, when no time ought to be lost, why should not an arterial trunk be opened? The most severe operations are daily resorted to, to save life, and surely a fellow-creature should not be allowed to die for want of the loss of a quantity of blood! In the Transactions of the Med. and Chir. So- ciety, there is a case narrated wherein the necessary quantity of blood could not be ob- tained from the veins of the arm, and where the bold and decided practice of opening the ra- dial artery was successfully adopted. It ought also to be remembered that when neither venesection nor arteriotomy can be performed, a large quantity of blood may be abstracted by leeches or cupping. The French are in the habit of applying at one time from fifty to a hundred leeches in cases where we would employ venesection. Effect of Syncope.—It has been laid down as a general rule in the treatment of many inflam- matory diseases, that blood should be ab- stracted until syncope is produced ; by which one would be led to suppose that the fainting was either a certain token of the quantity of blood that should be taken away, or that it was the act of syncope itself, and not the loss of the blood, which was to cure the disease. Hence we often hear of persons who were bled till they fainted, as a proof of the activity of the practice which had been employed, without considering whether the fainting had been produced by excessive depletion, or had arisen from the particular position of the pa- tient whilst the operation was performed. Suppose that two individuals are similarly afterwards lie had recovered from the state of fainting, and there was a degree of incompressibility of the pulse still existing. The bandage was reapplied on the arm, and upwards of twenty ounces more blood were abstracted before the fainting state returned. These bleedings were followed by a complete relief of the pain in the head, and along with the free use of purgatives, calo- mel, and antimony, he permanently recovered. affected, and in every respect in the same state, one of whom is bled in the erect pos- ture until he faints, while the other faints from the loss of blood whilst he is recumbent. In the first patient the syncope will probably be produced by losing one-half of the quantity necessary to be lost before the second patient falls into a state of syncope. It is, therefore, important to consider whe- ther the purpose of the operation be to abstract a certain quantity of blood from the system, or merely to produce a temporary state of syn- cope. When it is desirable to make a person faint with the loss of as little blood as possible, as, for instance, in a case where we wish to re- duce a strangulated hernia, or a dislocated bone, then the venesection ought to be per- formed in the sitting posture. But for the treatment of diseases requiring the abstraction of a certain quantity of blood from the system, fainting ought not to be considered as an index of the quantity to be withdrawn, but the usual means should be taken to avert its occurrence, except when the patient is in a recumbent pos- ture at the time the venesection is performed. Indeed we ought to be particularly cautious in treating inflammatory diseases not to pre- sume that because the patient has been bled to deliquium, that therefore the bleeding has been carried to its full and necessary extent. On the contrary, when, in any case, syncope has followed the abstraction of an unusually small quantity of blood, while the patient was in a recumbent position, then, in the space of one or two hours, the patient should be again ex- amined, when probably we shall find that the action of the vascular system has renewed its vigour, and the inflammatory symptoms con- tinue. If blood be then allowed to flow from the vein, a very copious bleeding will some- times be found requisite to reduce the pulse. This premature state of syncope, as it may be considered, may not only arise from the patient’s being bled in the erect posture, but is sometimes the effect of moral impressions, and, therefore, when, under such circum- stances, the fainting state has gone off, the in- flammatory symptoms soor. reappear *. Syncope ; how beneficial.—The state of syn- cope, which I have endeavoured to point out as an unerring criterion for estimating the ex- tent to which blood should be removed, in those cases where general bleeding is most expedient, is, by most practitioners, taken as their guide ; and though some have argued that a state of syncope thus brought on may be j pernicious, and even dangerous, I have 1 Case.—A gentleman was seized with severe pains in the bowels, with a good deal of tenderness on slight pressure, and accompanied with febrile excitement. On opening a vein in the arm, only a few ounces of blood were lost, when the pulse sunk and he fainted. Two hours afterwards, having recovered from the state of fainting, and not having experienced any relief, the bandage was again applied on his arm. Blood flowed freely from the wounded vein, and he did not fall into a state of syncope, until he had lost about thirty ounces of blood ; and this, along with purgatives, was followed with permanent relief.