380 ARTERITIS. sion in water, or by washing, as perfectly and perhaps as quickly, as that produced by transu- dation. Under such circumstances, I should hesitate to pronounce any appearance of red- ness on the internal surface of an artery, as indicative of inflammation, unless it were ac- companied by other phenomena generally taken as the results or effects of this process on the arterial structure, such as thickening, friability, and softening, and some of which, it is probable, are developed with great rapidity, and at an early period. At the present day therefore, there are but few if any patholo- gists who are disposed to interpret the simple red coloration of the lining tunics of arteries as conclusive evidence of inflammation; or to maintain with Franck, that it is patho- gnomonic of inflammatory fevers. Causes :—As external causes are known to to have but little influence in exciting inflam- mation in the arteries, in which respect their difference from the veins is very remarkable, it is assumed that the abuse of spirituous liquors, mercury, &c. may lead to its development. But whether it is thus produced, or not, the symptoms to which it gives rise vary exceedingly in intensity: they may be as ob- scure as when a ligature is applied on a vessel, producing neither local inconvenience, nor reaction of any kind ; or the fever may run high, with severe pain in the course of the affected vessel. When this is the case the danger to the limb, and even to life itself may be very great. The artery is exceedingly painful, and like a chord to the touch ; the pulsations may still continue, or be almost wholly obscured ; the limb swells, becomes covered with phlyctenes, and falls into gan- grene,or,as has been observed by MM. Graves and Stokes, is for a time partially paralysed. This variety in the degree of intensity of the inflammation, is not alone referable to its occurrence in different individuals ; for even in the same individual, one inflamed portion of an artery shall have poured out coagulating lymph, and be in full progress to obliteration, whilst another shall not exhibit a single parti- cle of lymph, or indicate the slightest tendency to this process. But I shall not dwell on this point now, as an opportunity will be afforded for discussing it in another place ; for the present, it will be sufficient to remark that as these effects evidently tend different wpays, one towards the safety of the individual, and the other, too often, to his destruction, it may not be altogether improper to designate these forms of inflammation by the terms, healthy and unhealthy. The healthy is very generally the result of accident, or injury : the un- healthy, as may be anticipated, is more fre- quently idiopathic. The supposed consequences of arteritis may be arranged into two classes, one, as they oc- casion alterations in the structure and functions of the vessel itself: the other, as inducing disease in different and distant parts. Accor- ding to Cruveilhier, the essential character of commencing arteritis is the coagulation of the blood within it. This is observed in the healthy or adhesive inflammation occasioned by a division of, or the application of a ligature on, a vessel, when a coagulum is found to occupy the interspace between the ligature and the next collateral branch : but is still more remarkable in the unhealthy or sponta- neous, where it is the most frequent cause of the gangrene that occurs in old persons'. That coagulated blood is generally found after death within an inflamed artery is well establish- ed by dissection, but that this is the result of the inflammation is more than questionable. In a case that occurred in the Meath hospital2, and w'hich was accompanied by the senile gangrene of the toes and feet; the femoral artery, w'hich was greatly enlarged, was found after death filled with a coagulum, but during life the blood unquestionably circulated through it, the motion imparting to the finger the sensa- tion of a weak and indistinct thrill like that felt on touching the course of the urethra whilst the urine is passing. In another case treated in the same institution, w'here a liga- ture had been placed on the femoral artery, the segment belowr the cord exhibited the deepness of colour and the increased calibre of an inflamed vessel, but contained not a single particle of coagulum of any description, al- though there was no collateral branch within a considerable distance. Under these circum- stances, and seeing that the aorta, at its arch or even before the arch is formed 3,is often the seat of inflammation, in which case the w'holc circulation should be stopped, it may be doubted whether the formation of a coagulum is an effect of inflammation during life ; that which is found after the application of a liga- ture being the result of the stagnation of a small quantity of blood between it and the next collateral branch. The early effects of healthy arteritis on the vessel itself, are scarcely appreciable by our senses, except in experimenting on animals, a mode of investigation, that will be found very inadequate to explain the effects of disease in the human subject. In Jones’s experiments I do not find any mention made of the con- dition of the vessel with respect to an increase of vascularity, and in some trials of my own I could not say, whether the redness observed, was the result of transudation or not. In man, it is not easy to obtain an opportunity for satisfying ourselves on this point, but judg- ing from analogy, it may not be unfair to as- sume, that arteritis is ushered in by an increase of vascularity and of redness, followed, how- ever, very speedily by an effusion of orgailiv- able coagulating lymph on the surface of the internal membrane ; w'hich, if the surfaces are laid together, will in a short space so glue and fasten them, as to close the vessel at that 1 Dictionnaire dc Medecine ct dc Chirnrgic Pra- tiques ; tom. iii. pp. 394, 395. Article, Maladies dcs Arteres. 2 The phenomena and results of this case attracted considerable attention amongst the medical attendants and were particularly remarked by my friend and col- league Dr. William Stokes. The preparation is in the museum of the Park st. school. J See Dublin Journal of Medical Science.