315 ANKYLOSIS. bility to the cellular membrane. To this end friction will conduce, and the use of rube- facient liniments, of which I have found the Lin. Camph. Co. to be the most useful, proba- bly, from the mercury which forms one of its principal ingredients. The use of iodine oint- ment (Ijf, Iodin. gr. ij. Hydr. Potass. 3i. Adi- pis Ji.) has been recommended, but in the trials which I have made of it in this condi- tion of cellular membrane, I have not found reason to concur very decidedly in the re- commendation. Marked advantage frequently follows the local application of the steam-bath, a remedy so cheap and so effectual that it de- serves very general use. A tea-kettle full of boiling water, kept hot by an iron heater be- neath it, will keep up a sufficient supply of steam for a considerable time. Of course, the steam ought to be confined by a cloth thrown over the limb, and over the spout of the ket- tle. The same end may be attained by plac- ing the kettle on a small fire, but this method is less convenient. The grand remedy, how- ever, in these cases is pressure, which of itself is often adequate to the cure. A tightly- applied bandage, or what is still better, strips of strong adhesive plaster, firmly incasing the limb, occasion frequently a very rapid dis- appearance of the swelling and induration. Along with these measures, passive motion must be employed, but with all gentleness ; bearing constantly in mind the danger which exists of again awakening inflammation in the cellular membrane. When the ankylosis has followed upon sprain, luxation, long-continued rest, gout, rheumatism, simple synovitis, or any cause which would occasion rigidity of tissues, (and in this class are included the large majority of cases to w'hich any treatment is applicable) steady perseverance in the use of very simple methods will often effect a cure. The mus- cles, tendons, cellular and synovial membranes, and ligaments, have lost their natural flexi- bility, by the restoration of which the anky- losis piay be removed. We commence by the use of oleaginous fomentations, or emol- lient cataplasms, to which the steam-bath, or the long-continued play of a jet of warm water against the joint may be added with advantage. In France, baths are made use of to which the hydro-chlorate of soda or am- monia is added, and it is said with advantage. The joint and the limb above it, so as to in- clude the whole course of the stiffened mus- cles, ought to be rubbed two or three times every day, and for half an hour at a time after the use of a fomentation, with some oily liniment. Boyer recommends us to expose the part to the warm vapour of the entrails of sheep, oxen, &c., by thrusting the affected member into the peritoneum of newly-killed animals. The same writer advises the envelopment of the joint in the epiploon or the warm skin of a sheep. I do not deny that these measures may be useful, but they are often impracti- cable, and always disgusting; nor do I sup- pose that they possess any marked superiority. There is, however some truth in Benjamin Bell’s opinion, that animal fat answers better than vegetable oil as an emollient in stiff joints. When these measures have succeeded in relaxing a little the stiffened tissues, passive motion ought to be commenced. The patient himself must not be employed in communica- ting this motion, for he will rarely do it effec- tively ; he will either deceive himself by moving the superior joint, or he will be so much afraid of producing pain that the degree of force used will be inadequate. On the other hand, none but a judicious and patient person ought to be entrusted with the office, and in all cases the surgeon ought to instruct the person w'ho is to be regularly employed, by a practical exemplification of the method to be used. The attempts to communicate motion should always be made on the “ gutta cavat lapidem” principle ; that is to say, they should be gentle but persevering. Half an hour three times a day after the use of some of the remedies noticed above will be well employed in this way. The attempt should never be so forcible or so long continued as to create positive pain, though generally a slight feeling of uneasiness will be experienced from the commencing efforts. Care also ought to be taken first, that all the normal movements are communicated to the joint, and, secondly, that none other than the nor- mal movements are communicated. In the early attempts, a sort of crepitation is often perceived which ought to afford encourage- ment to a steady procedure in the method of treatment, but the necessity of avoiding that degree of force which might reawaken inflam- matory action cannot be too often inculcated. If these measures be successful, (and a very persevering trial of them ought to be made before abandoning them) we have the satisfac- tion of seeing the motions of the joint gradu- ally increasing, and the patient should then be directed to commence a cautious use of the limb. It is by voluntary motions that the cure is generally completed. When the ankylosis is old or very obsti- nate, we may resort to the use of machines, (such as the apparatus of Lafond) so con- structed as constantly to exert some pressure in a right direction, and to prevent any in- creased contraction. Thus, when the knee- joint is flexed at a right angle, one of Mr. Amesbury’s splints may be applied to the back of the joint, and the utmost degree of extension of which the knee is susceptible, without pain, steadily maintained by means of the screw. The measures above recom- mended, fomentations, friction, passive mo- tion, &c., ought to be persisted in, and on every fresh application of the splint an at- tempt may be made to increase the extension. Sometimes, to prevent increased contraction, a side-splint may be usefully applied along the whole limb. Various machines have been used by the