ERYSIPELAS. 168 In Traumatic Erysipelas the special indica- tions of treatment arise out of the state of the wound, and are accomplished by incisions to relieve strangulation and give issue to purulent collections, by extracting splinters and removing all other causes of irritation, and by light appropriate dressings. General means should be concurrently employed on the principles already laid down, and with due regard to the various conditions that should at all times regulate their use. I have seen Dupuytren use blisters with decided ad- vantage in simple traumatic erysipelas of the head, being in twenty-four hours followed by a sensible improvement of the general state, disappearance ot the eruption, healthy appear- ance of the wound, and return of a good sup- puration, which had been temporarily sup- pressed or vitiated. I have elsewhere ex- posed the theory of Dr. Blandin respecting traumatic erysipelas, upon which he grounds an advantageous and consistent method of treatment. He directs applications of leeches to be made, and repeated at very short inter- vals, on the lymphatic ganglions appertaining to the region upon which the erysipelas has occurred, and by this means he states that he has not lost a patient the last two years *. But it is essential to observe that the success, according to this distinguished surgeon, de- pends upon controlling the inflammation before it has got beyond those ganglions, for it is not possible to act directly upon those of the viscera. In erysipelas of the extremities the application of these precepts is easy, as the ganglionary system of those parts is sim- ple and concentrated, but in erysipelas of the ligated the subject of Erysipelas, adopts “ a tonic mode of treatment as the great rule in idiopathic erysipelas. But I have for some years abandoned the use of bark, for I observed when the patient was treated by bark, lie did not become convalescent till his tongue had become brown, and consequently, not until he had sunk into a completely typhoid state, that lowest point of depression consistent with life, and at which the poison cither ceases to be generated, or else the system is no longer sensible to its further action. At this point, however, but not before, the bark appeared to me to take up the disease; and the patient, in a very large majority of cases, recovered.” . . . . “ I have, therefore, after a considerable number of experiments, been led to the conviction that a treatment by wine is superior to that of bark, or to any modification of that treatment. The mode, then, in which 1 am in the habit of treating idiopathic erysipelas, whatever may be the part affected, or with whatever symptoms it may be accompanied, is as follows : the patient is put on a milk diet, the bowels gently opened, and from four to six ounces of port wine, together with sago, allowed daily. This mode of treatment it is seldom necessary to vary throughout the whole course of the disease ; for the delirium, if present, is generally tranquillized ; if absent, prevented ; the tongue more rarely becomes brown, or only continues so for a few hours; while the local disease seldom passes into sup- puration or gangrene. In a word, all the symptoms are mitigated, and the course of the disease shortened. I have pursued this system for several years, and I hardly remember a case in which it has not been suc- cessful.” Op. cit. pp. 283, 284. The whole of Dr. Williams’ essay on Erysipelas in his Elements of Me- dicine is w'ell worthy of attentive perusal.—Ed. 1 Op. cit. trunk they are not so easily reducible- to practice, the ganglionary system of the body being disseminated, ganglionitis may simulta- neously invade the inguinal axillary and in- tercostal ganglions, and thus render their ap- plication of considerable difficulty. Any specialty of treatment that erysipelas of the head claims, arises out of its proximity to the brain and its appendages, and the con- sequent danger of inflammation to those organs. In these cases vigorous antiphlogistic means are required, and bleeding, local and general, should be made to succeed each other till the violence of the cerebral symptoms has given way. In erysipelas of the face, Dance found no means so effectual as the application of leeches to the lower jaw. In a word, the gene- ral treatment should be modified according to the nature and extent of the general disturb- ance, as has been fully detailed in the treat- ment of the preceding varieties, the simple circumstance of situation enjoining but more vigilance and activity. In cases of retrocession the most prompt and decisive measures should be adopted; we cannot too much adndre and imitate the promptitude and energy with which Sydenham acted on an occasion of this kind. The short account he gives of the case will convey more instruction than pages often teach. “ A gentleman who by exposure to cold air suddenly struck in the erysipelas of his face, and had all the symptoms of an in- flamed brain, and was in the most imminent danger, appeared to be snatched from death by bleeding him in the jugular vein, and be- sides that applying two large blisters to both sides of his neck, bleeding him in the arm, and giving him a strong purge ; all of which was done in the space of half an hour.” In ery- sipelas of the head, sinapisms applied to the lower extremities, or derivative pediluvia, should always constitute a part of the treat- ment. Tissot saw an erysipelas which covered the nose and eyes, drawn in the space of a few hours to the legs by the application of sinapisms to the feet. Phlegmonous erysipelas of the scalp re- quires at the onset of the disease energetic antiphlogistic means ; but tardily employed, large depletion will but aggravate its ulterior stages. The seat of purulent diffusion being here subaponeurotic, early crucial incisions, comprising the integuments and occipito- frontal aponeuroses, are required, their num- ber, extent, and seat of election, being deter- mined on the principles already fully laid down. If denuded bones, instead of covering over with healthy granulations, present a red darkish appearance, necrosis has set in, and then the edges of the corresponding wound should be kept open till the exfoliation is ef- fected. Necrosis is generally confined to the external table, and this is the presumable state of the case if no unusual accidents arise in the course of the disease ; but if shiver- ings, with nausea or vomitings, and accom- panied with insomnia, heaviness of the head,