691- CANCRUM ORIS. soon afterwards, on removing it, we discover some small ulcers underneath. These ulcers unite, and the false membrane is reproduced for a few days in such quantity that the dis- eased points are elevated above the surround- ing surface, and the ulcers completely con- cealed by the pseudo-membranous exudation. At this stage the disease may remain station- ary, may pass into gangrene, or is susceptible of cure. In the latter case the exudation gradually ceases, the tumefaction subsides, and the loss of substance is repaired, within fifteen days, by granulation. Should the disease, on the other hand, progress, the ulcers assume a gangrenous appearance, and the cheeks, lips, with other parts of the mouth are successively destroyed in the manner which shall presently be described, the pseudo-membranous passing into the dry form of gangrene. The ulcerative form.—This appears to be the form which was observed by Isnard 1 and more recently by Drs. Webb2 and R. Willis3. According to Richter the ulcerative variety always commences on the mucous membrane of the mouth or lips, but we have seen it occupying every point of the interior of the mouth. There is, however, much difficulty in ascertaining the precise manner or place in which the disease begins. The early symp- toms are frequently mild, and the attention of the medical man is rarely directed to them before the gangrenous ulceration has already made some progress. M. Isnard describes the disease as commencing by a small, whitish, superficial ulcer, with irregular edges, on the mucous membrane of the mouth or lips. As the ulcer extends it assumes a dirty gray ap- pearance, and is covered by a tenacious, puru- lent exudation. The breath now conveys a very foetid odour and the cheek begins to swell. According to Richter, we first per- ceive, on the lining membrane of the cheek or lips, one or more vesicles of unhealthy aspect, which break in a few days and are suc- ceeded by a malignant ulcer, or by a dark pustule surrounded by a well-defined inflam- matory circle. Were we to speak from our own experience we should say that the ulcer commences most frequently on the gums, or at the junction between the gums and lining membrane of the cheek. The appearance of the neighbouring parts varies in different cases, and it seems probable that the differences which exist in the descriptions of many writers, depend on their having drawn general con- clusions from a limited number of cases. Sometimes the tissue of the gums is spongy, red, or of a livid colour ; in other cases the ulcer is preceded by inflammation, or more commonly by irritation of the affected points ; in others, again, the ulcerative form has suc- ceeded to the pseudo-membranous, and at an early stage it is impossible to determine what will be the result of the primitive lesions. When once formed, the character of the 1 Thesis. No. 188. Pans, 1818. 1 Medical Examiner, Philadelphia, No. 35. 1839. 3 Illustrations of Cutaneous Diseases, Loudon, 1840. ulcer is peculiar : the edges are ragged, and the bottom is covered by a dirty brown or grey eschar, which is occasionally detached and renewed according to the progress of the disease. It is impossible to fix, with any de- gree of certainty, the duration of this form of gangrene of the mouth. It is sometimes rapid in its progress, and soon destroys the whole of the gums, or extends to the lips, cheeks, periosteum of the maxillary bones, &c. ; but when properly treated it usually terminates in a cure, as our own experience, confirmed by that of Dr. Willis and Dr. Webb, testifies. In many cases, however, the ulcer- ative variety is complicated by the superven- tion of the dry form (forme charbonneuse ) and then sets in a train of symptoms of the most dangerous and formidable nature. These constitute gangrene of the mouth, properly so called, and it might admit of question whether the other two varieties might not with pro- priety be separated from it altogether. The dry1 form.—As we have already re- marked, this form frequently supervenes on the other two, changing their character and rendering them highly dangerous and destruc- tive. It may also commence by a small brown slough on the inner surface of the cheek ; or finally (according to M. Taupin), by mortifica- tion of the cellular tissue and soft parts con- tained between the skin and mucous lining of the cheek. The latter (primary) is the most intractable species and almost invariably terminates in death. It usually occurs in debilitated sub- jects of scrofulous or cachectic habits, and as a complication of the acute exanthemata, hooping-cough, or fever. The development of the disease is indicated by a tumefaction of the cheek, which is pale and sometimes shining, but unaccompanied by pain or other symptoms of inflammation ; the surrounding tissues, particularly the lower eyelid, are oedematous. The colour of the swollen parts soon changes; sometimes the surface of the tumours is reddish, at others of a dirty yellow; the colour rapidly changes to black ; a slough is detached from the inside of the cheek, and the discoloured parts are rapidly destroyed by mortification. The extent of destruction seems to depend upon causes which we are unable to appreciate ; the na- ture of the previous exanthema and the dura- tion of the disease, however, exert a certain degree of influence. Sometimes the child perishes before any considerable portion of the cheek had been destroyed ; at other times the gangrene extends from the cheek to the gums, which are successively detached in putrid eschars; the teeth fall out, one after another; the periosteum is removed from the maxillary bones, which are covered with a dark layer, and in some cases necrosed; the lips and nose may likewise be totally destroyed and nothing remain of the face except the 1 The term dry does not express exactly the nature of this form, but I have not been able to select a more appropriate one.