538 BURNS AND SCALDS. layer of new cuticle, or a false membrane, secreting pus. When the cuticle has been torn off at the moment of the accident, or rolled up into a scroll like writing paper, leaving the cutis bare, the contact of air with the inflamed nervous papillae, creates the most acute suffering, and suppuration is almost inevitable. The pain does not remit until the denuded surface is shielded by exudation of plastic lymph, or by new epidermis'. Here the skin for the most part, not having sustained any material loss, preserves its con- texture, and heals without a scar. Should there have been, however, protracted suppu- ration from the inferior stratum of the epi- dermis, otherwise called corpus mucosum, ex- ceeding according to Dupuvtren the term of fifteen days, the skin will be replaced by new integument. If there be long continued irri- tation, the part becomes irregularly hypertro- phied, and an unseemly cicatrice, like that from an old blister, is the result. Deformity may likewise be produced by ill-directed treat- ment, or by want of proper care and attention on the part of the surgeon. Under favourable circumstances, it is fully ascertained, that the red cuticular investment first formed over the burnt surface, gradually assumes the natural hue of the surrounding integument 2. The grades of lesion just considered, are of a fleeting nature. But the third degree, in which the vitality and organization of the derma are implicated, is of a more serious kind. Here there is a scathing of the epi- dermic layers, conjoined with that of the delicate and sensitive surface of the papillary bodies. This degree of burn is referrible to the same causes as the two preceding ; but their action has been more intense and pro- longed, from various accidental circumstances above enumerated, such as asphyxia, epilepsy, intoxication, &c. ' In this place it is proper to state, that acute inflammation of the glottis and larynx, resembling croup, has been induced by swallowing boiling water from the spout of a tea-kettle. It appears probable, according to Dr. Marshall Hall *, that the boiling water does not penetrate into the stomach, or even into the gullet, but that its course is arrested by a spasmodic action of the muscles of the pharynx. In passing to the posterior part of the mouth, however, it scalds the epiglottis and glottis, which afterwards become more and more swollen, until at length the rima Glottidis, or orifice into the larynx, becomes completely obstructed. 2 It is deserving of notice, that the application of scalding heat has been resorted to for therapeutical purposes. The late Baron Des Genettes + recommended as a substitute for blistering-plaister, compresses dipped in boiling water. The substitution, however, as Dr. Donncllan remarks, requires the utmost care. And the difficulty or impossibility of confining the action of the liquid to one spot, ought to render us very circumspect in its use. Deep eschars and tedious ulcers have been known to result therefrom. * Dr. M. Hall’s Edition of Underwood. London, 1835, p. 3G4. •f Hist. Med. dc PArmee d’Oricnt. 1802. The appearance of the disorganized inte- gument differs according to circumstances. When the burn has been occasioned by an in- candescent body or burning clothes, patches of a grey, yellow, or dusky colour appear; while with heated liquids, they are white or greyish-yellow. The eschar is commonly tense, elastic, and thin, like a piece of parch- ment : insensible if lightly touched, though pressure awakens a lively sense of pain. The pain accompanying this degree is less severe than in the two preceding, but greater than in those that follow ; while the constitutional sympathy is less where the cutis is charred and killed, than when it is simply exposed. A familiar illustration of the present grade is furnished by moxa, where all the different shades of colour are to be seen blended toge- ther. The burnt surface may present three dif- ferent aspects, according to the state of the epidermis ; which may be destroyed or re- moved, or elevated into phlyctense ; or lastly, it may be hard and horny, bound down to, and strangulating in a measure, the subjacent sound textures. In the first instance, the naked surface has a grey or brownish colour. When phlyctenae are present, they differ essentially from those formerly described, inasmuch as they contain a milky, reddish sanguinolent or brown fluid, extravasated from the interme- diate-vessels of the derma. The puce-coloured vesicle is here an excellent diagnostic mark. As you recede from the centre of lesion, you observe traces of the epidermic degrees of burn ; namely, blisters filled with transparent serum, and further off, erythematous redness. The eschar is about the quarter of a line in thickness. The pain, at first often hardly appreciable, becomes in the course of a few days very pungent; inflammation is excited, and in a short time a solution of continuity is accomplished between the dead and the living structures. Hunter attributed the separation to the action of the absorbents, and this ab- sorption he denominated the “ true surgery of nature.” The period of time required for the detachment of the eschar, varies accord- ing to individual circumstances, age, consti- tution, and the like ; as also according to the respective share of vitality of the parts interested. According to Dr. Donnellan *, from four to six days are indispensable, when the corpus mucosum is alone involved ; if a constituent part of the chorion be at the same time implicated, eight, fifteen, or even more days will be needed. On examining the eschar prior to its final separation, it will be found loosely connected with the living surface by numerous nervous and vascular filaments. Traction gives pain as well as division. Hence the propriety of not interfering with these sensitive links. After its removal a superficial sore remains ; in which the cicatrizing pellicle proceeds usually from the circumference to the centre. 1 Precis sur la Brfilure. Paris. 1831.