ANTHRAX. 32D lify a more favourable augury. The danger to life is relative to the age of the patient, the extent of the parts attacked, the violence and duration of the irritation, the exhaustion from long-continued discharge, and the situation in which the tumour is developed. This last point is one of the utmost importance, as the local irritation is readily transmitted to the neighbouring organs. It is on this account, that bad consequences are so much more to be dreaded, when an anthrax occurs in the vicinity of the great serous cavities ; in the scalp, for instance, it is almost always fatal. Local treatment.—When the surgeon is consulted at the commencement, and the tu- mour is not extensive, nor the pain yet severe, an attempt may be made, and sometimes suc- cessfully, to check its further progress by the application of numerous leeches, cold lotions, or emollient poultices. If the inflammatory irritation that first assails the cellulo-adipose pellets lodged in the areoles of the derm can be arrested, the disease aborts, and the patient is spared much suffering and risk. But when these measures fail to produce the desired effect, he must not lose time; promptitude and energy will be necessary not only to re- lieve the patient of pain, but to limit the ravages which the disease, if left to itself, would not fail to produce in the parts at- tacked. The inflamed cellular pellets, shut up in the unyielding cells, are suffering the passive pressure of the aponeurotic derm, and this pressure will go on augmenting till both perish together ; a consequence which can only be prevented by freeing the parts from this state of strangulation. This is effected by multiplied incisions extending through it from the summit to the base of the tumour, and prolonged beyond its limits for a little way. The number of incisions should vary according to the extent of the tumour ; the crucial or stellated form is that gene- rally preferred. If they are made sufficiently eariy, the pain ceases almost at once, the duration of the disease will be greatly abridged, and the gangrene that would otherwise result will sometimes be prevented altogether. If matter has been already formed, it is squeezed out on the divided surfaces, and a good deal of blood is poured out, which helps to subdue the inflammation. The effect of crucial in- cisions in removing the constriction of the parts, and producing the cessation of pain, is well exemplified in a case of Dupuytren’s. He first divided the tumour, which was about the size of a hen’s egg, into two equal parts, one of which he again divided into two parts. These two incisions had the form of a T; the upper half of the tumour having been cut crucially, whilst the lower one remained un- divided. As Dupuytren foretold, the pain ceased, and the inflammation was subsiding only in the upper half of the tumour, the lower one being found next day, still hard, inflamed, and much larger. The lower half was then divided, and its further progress arrested. If the tumour happen to be so large, that the crucial incisions are insufficient to relieve the parts from constriction, then as many more as may be required are made, passing through the same centre as the two first, or in such other manner, as may seem best suited to the object the surgeon has in view, and the nature of the parts in which the anthrax is developed. It is important to bear in mind, that in order to arrest the progress of the tumour, the incisions should not only divide it completely through, but be prolonged a little way beyond it. The incisions having been duly made, and in sufficient number, either through the centre, or round the basis of the tumour, pressure should be made both on the tumour and the surrounding parts, in order to unload them of the pus and mortified cellular tissue which they may contain, and the whole is covered with an emollient poultice ; sometimes a simple or digestive ointment is applied to the wound itself, and the poultice is then spread largely over the wound and neighbouring parts. In some cases, the treatment by incisions is objectionable, on account of the situation of the tumour. When it is so, it should at an early stage be covered with leeches, and the bleeding encouraged by w'arm fomentations, or it may be cupped. The surgeon should then watch till the skin becomes thinned, and make a straight incision to give issue to the pus and gangrenous cellular tissue, and if one or more spontaneous openings have already formed they may be thrown into one by this incision. In pressing out the matter and sloughs, the degree of force employed should be moderate ; for, setting aside the torture which severe pressure would produce, it would also retard the detersive and healing process by breaking up many small vessels. It will therefore be better to press the pus out gently at each dressing, and remove the flakes of cellular tissue as they become loos- ened and detached, than to force them away roughly. When the skin is extensively thinned by the progress of ulceration, it w ill not unite with the granulations that spring from the bottom of the wound. In this case the wasted integument, which is an obstacle to cicatriza- tion, should be cut away with the scissors. When the suppuration diminishes, and the tendency to healing is obvious, care should be taken to watch the progress of the cicatriza- tion, with a view to check exuberant granu- lations, or to prevent the parts from contract- ing adhesions, or taking positions which might afterwards interfere with the due performance of their functions. When the granulations have become regularized, and the edges have sunk to their level, they should be drawn near or into contact by means of adhesive straps, and dressed with lint, either dry, or spread with simple ointment; at this stage, the treat- ment being the same as that of any other wound w'ith loss of substance. Patients attacked with anthrax, under the impression that it is a mere boil, often refrain from consulting the surgeon, till finding that palliatives have no effect, they become alarmed,