CANCRUM ORIS. 01 30th March, 1840. The progress of the dis- ease was immediately arrested, but on the 4th April it again began to spread, under the in- teguments, towards the eyelid, and the cautery was again applied with equal success ; on the 8th the greater part of the slough produced by the hot iron was thrown off, and granulations were springing up around the edges of the wound ; on the 10th the patient suffered from an attack of diarrhoea, which was soon checked, and in a week the face was completely healed. In Mr. Obre’s second case the efficacy of the actual cautery in arresting gangrene was equally demonstrated, although the child did not ultimately recover. As a measure prelimi- nary to the employment of the actual cautery, and indeed, of any other powerful escharotic, it will be advisable to remove with the knife as much of the mortified parts as possible, or to scarify the tissues freely, that the remedial agent may be enabled to act more directly on the subjacent parts. It is unnecessary to men- tion, that, when we have recourse to the actual cautery, great care must be taken to protect the sound parts of the mouth from contact with the instrument. Hydrochloric acid.—This is the remedy com- monly employed at the Children’s Hospital, Paris, in all severe cases of gangrena oris. Van Swieten mixed twenty drops of the acid with half an ounce of honey and applied it to the affected parts, or, in dangerous cases, used the pure acid with benefit. Since then it has been extensively employed by Siebert, Boyer, Richter, Baron, Jadelot, Guersent, and other physicians. In mild cases the diluted acid may be used, but when the soft parts are deeply involved we must have recourse to the concentrated acid. It will be advisable, as has been already remarked, to remove the mortified detritus, and make a few scarifications into the tissues which are concealed by the eschars ; this done, and the tongue, lips, &c. being protected from contact with the acid, it may be applied by means of a small brush, to the bottom of the wound, and to the different points involved in the disease ; the cauteriza- tion must be repeated twice or thrice a day, or oftener, until the eschars are detached and the surrounding tissues seem disposed to as- sume an healthy action ; the edges of the wound may now be touched with nitrate of silver, or stimulated by the chloride of lime, of soda, &c.: the formation of unseemly adhesions must, if possible, be prevented, and the healing pro- cess favoured by the means usually employed to hasten the cicatrization of wounds in other parts of the body. Sulphuric and acetic acids.— These acids were, at one time, much used by German practitioners in the treatment of gangrena oris; but they have been completely super- seded, in modern practice, by hydrochloric acid. Dr. Willis, however, recommends pyro- ligneous acid, when sloughing has commenced. Chloride of sodium.—This remedy appears to have been introduced by Rey ’, who de- 1 Revue Medicalc, t. vi. p. 184. rived great benefit from it in one case; it is also recommended by Dr. R. Willis, but the superior efficacy of the chloride of lime is sup- ported by a much more extensive experience at the Children’s Hospital. Sulphate of copper.—This substance has been long used by American practitioners in the treatment of gangrena oris. They employ it in all stages of the disease, in the proportion of one to two drachms of the sulphate (with 2 oz. of powdered cinchona bark), to four ounces of water. This formula was first pro- posed by Dr. Coates, but the cinchona might probably be omitted without any inconveni- ence. The treatment recommended by British writers does not differ, in any essential par- ticulars, from that which has been described above. Underwood’s very imperfect descrip- tion of “ gangrenous erosion of the cheeks” is taken from Mr. Dease, who gave bark in- ternally, and applied muriatic acid, mixed with honey of roses, to the affected parts. Mr. Wallace administered carbonate of ammonia internally, in doses of five, ten, and twenty grains, and touched the gangrenous eschars with pure nitric acid. The local remedies employed by Burns are chloride of lime, and nitrate of silver, with carrot or yeast poultices. Dr. Robert Willis also recommends the ni- trate of silver, or sulphate of copper, in the early stage ; and when sloughing commences, pyroligneous acid, or chloride of soda, w'ith generous diet, tonics, &c. Towards the close of the disease diarrhoea very frequently supervenes, and is always troublesome. It may depend either on the passage into the intestinal canal of the putrid secretions of the mouth, or on some sub-in- flammatory affection of the intestinal mucous membrane. The distinction between these two causes is not easily drawn ; it will, how- ever, be prudent to give some mild aperient for the purpose of carrying away any irritating matter which may be contained in the intes- tines, and then administering an astringent. The pneumonia which frequently complicates severe cases of gangrena oris is commonly latent, and too often beyond the resources of our art. Even local blood-letting is inadmis- sable, but counter-irritants may be applied to the chest, and the white oxyde of antimony, or tartar emetic, in full doses, given internally. Bibliography.—The following standard treatises on Gangrena Oris may be consulted with advantage :—- Cumin, Dublin Hospital Reports, vol. iv. p. 330. Baron, Journal de Med. t. 36. Paris, 1816. Isnard, Thesis, No. 188, Paris, 1818, and in Journal Compl. t. 4, 1819. Coates, North American Med. and Surg. Jour- nal, 1826. Richter, Der Wasserkrebs der Kinder. Berlin, 1828. Taupin, Journal des Com. Med. Chi- rurg. No. 10, 1839, p. 134. Naumann, Handb. der Med. Klin, article Cancrum Oris. Encyclopced. Worterbuch der* Med. Wissen; same article. In addition to the above more or less information may be obtained from the following, which are of less import- ance. Wiegand, Monograph, dcs Wasserkrebs. Erlang. 1820. Hesse, Ueber die Erweich. der Gewebe, &c. Leip. 1827. Mende, in Hufeland's Journal, st. 10, s. 24. (1806 and 1809). Mkhuelis, same Journal, st. 1,