772 CHONDRITIS. employment, though their application must in some cases be delayed, to give time for coun- ter irritation. Velpeau employs a paste called dextrine for stiffening bandages. It is prepared by boiling starch in diluted nitric acid. A pre- cipitate forms, which is to be separated and dried. This powder is made into a paste with cold water, and is said to be more effectual than any other adhesive material, but the bandages take several hours to harden. Muci- lage of gum-acacia thickened with chalk has been recently used, and is understood to have answered very well. By any of these means we have an apparatus easily procured, readily applied, and as speedily removed : a gentle and uniform compression is exerted on the limb, the joint is kept immoveably fixed, and a patient who, under other circumstances, would be confined to a sick chamber, is enabled to walk in the open air with the assistance of crutches, and as the bandages are very light, and adapt themselves to every irregularity of the surface of the limb, the joint may be kept in any position that is desired. Mr. Scott has recommended a mode of giving mechanical support to a limb, a joint of which is the subject of disease, and prevent- ing all motion of the parts. His plan appears to possess some advantages, and might be adopted if it were thought desirable to vary the more simple means recommended above, but we cannot speak of its efficacy from per- sonal experience. The limb is covered with a mixture of equal parts of ceratum saponis, and unguentum hydrargyri fortius cum cam- phora thickly spread on lint, and over this strips, an inch and a half wide, of the emplas- trnrn plumbi spread on calico are to be applied. Then a covering of emplastrum saponis, spread on thick leather, the whole being uniformly supported by a bandage. Before making these applications the limb is to be cleansed, and gently rubbed with camphorated spirit, to induce a gentle excitement of the superficial vessels. Mr. Scott here trusts not only to the quietude, but also to the influence mer- cury has been found to possess in subduing chronic inflammation when applied locally. Of the means in use for the purpose of sub- duing the morbid action going on within the joint, local blood-letting is one of the most obvious. It is occasionally indicated when from some irritating cause, as a slip, a violent starting of the limb, the inflammatory action has been augmented ; also, whenever there is much increase of heat about the joint accom- panied by constant pain. But if employed when the constitutional powers of the patient have been greatly impaired, and there is any considerable emaciation, though it may for a day or two mitigate some urgent symptom, it is almost invariably followed within a week by an aggravation of suffering, and evident marks of a rapid increase of the disease. Some apply cupping-glasses over the leech bites, so as to remove a determinate quantity of blood, but I have observed that the relief afforded in this manner is not so great as when the blood is allowed to ooze into a soft warm poultice. Warm and moist applications are sometimes useful as palliatives. Cold ones often increase, and but seldom relieve suf- fering. In children, blisters kept open w’ith some irritating dressing, afford much relief to the pain, and if the limb be kept quiet, this may be all that is necessary : but in adults, issues made with caustic potash, or the potassa cum calce, are far more serviceable. Sir Benjamin Brodie says they have a greater effect over ulceration of cartilage than any other disease of joints. They should be made as near the joint as is compatible with the safety of the synovial membrane. In some cases the first application is followed by an immediate cessa- tion of the symptoms ; in almost all, consider- able relief is afforded, and if quiet be main- tained for some weeks, the cure is often com- pleted. Sir B. Brodie remarks, that the benefit derived from the issue does not appear to be in proportion to the quantity of pus dis- charged from its surface, and he thinks it is a decidedly better plan to keep the issue open by rubbing it two or three times a week with caustic potash, or sulphate of cop- per, than to employ beans. When these issues are applied, however, in combination with the ordinary methods of fixing the joint, their good effects are often destroyed by the involuntary motions of the limb. It is evident that the effects are likely to be far more bene- ficial when the joint is kept perfectly immove- able, and to effect this after applying the starched bandage, I have removed a piece about the size of half a crown, and applied the potassa cum calce to the skin at this spot. In this way perfect rest and the benefit of the issue were simultaneously and easily obtained. The application of moxae, and the formation of eschars by means of heated irons have been much recommended, and were formerly in pretty general use in articular diseases, but they have of late years been superseded by caustic issues and setons. Most patients have a great horror of the actual cautery, and the difficulty of regulating the extent of their action is another strong objection to all the usual modes of cauterization. Instances are on record in which the synovial membrane was penetrated, and the most deplorable re- sults followed. The evils, however, which arise from the abuse of a remedy, are not arguments against its proper use, and I believe that moxse, when properly applied, are more manageable and efficacious than any other form of counter-irritation. The simplest and best, with which I am acquainted, is made with paper which has been steeped in the liquor plumbi diacetatis, and afterwards dried. This is folded into a narrow strip, and rolled up after the manner of a bandage, till it gives a surface about the size of a sixpence. It is held on the point of skin where we wish to make the eschar by a pair of forceps or scis- sors, and a light applied. By blowing on it