ANATOMY, MORBID. 194 unaccompanied by constitutional affection or taint. b. True scirrhus, c. Fungus haematodes or medullaris, medullary sarcoma, fungoid dis- ease, spungoid inflammation, ce- rebriform cancer, &c. d. Melanosis, in that particular form which exhibits a structure resem- bling the preceding, to which the term “ melanosis,” as descriptive of a specific affection, may, for convenience and precision, be restricted. 7. In Hydatids or other parasitical animals lodged in the particular organ. 8. In the effects of accidental injury. Deficiency.—This may proceed from two causes : it may be the result of original de- fect, or the part having existed in its origi- nal state may have suffered loss. From either of these causes the deficiency may be abso- lute and total, in which case we have only to consider the causes which have led to it; but before admitting total deficiency, it is essen- tial carefully to ascertain that the part in question is not in existence, either as a rudi- ment, or debris. If the part continue to exist, it may be the subject of deficiency either by a general dimi- nution of size, or by the total or partial ab- sence of some of its subordinate parts. Excess.—Excess admits of varieties in some respects analogous to those which have been noticed in the case of deficiency. A part may be preternaturally large from original forma- tion, as we sometimes see to be the case with a child’s head, in other respects perfectly well formed, or the enlargement may be secondary, as when the enlarged head is the result of a morbid collection of fluid in the ventricles of the brain. Sometimes the excess of one part is the result of deficiency in another, as, for example, one kidney being suppressed or destroyed, the other acquires increase of volume, as well as of function. Sometimes increase of size, or hypertrophy as it is called, is simply the result of increase of function, as, for example, when the heart be- comes enlarged in consequence of various causes rendering the circulation of the blood more difficult. In some organs great varia- tions in size may take place independently of disease, and in obedience to the laws of na- ture. The most striking examples of this kind are seen in the inferior animals, as, for example, in the vernal increase of the size of the frog’s thumb, and in the prodigious en- largement of the testes of some animals about the same season. Excess may consist in the increase of the number of organs, as, for ex- ample, when, instead of one spleen, we find four, or even five. Instances are by no means rare of the hand having six instead of five fin- gers. Examples of excess like the last-men- tioned take place in conformity with the law pointed out by Bichat, viz., that the compo- nent parts of limbs increase in number as they become distant from the trunk or cen- tre ; thus the upper arm has one bone, the humerus; the fore arm two, the radius and ulna ; the carpal rows have each four, and the metacarpal five, which, in the abnormal cases above-mentioned, are increased to six. Excess in number sometimes takes place in the parts of organs rather than in additional entire organs, as, for example, when the lungs or the liver are divided into an unusual number of lobes. Excess with respect to the number of organs or parts of organs, in the human sub- ject at least, may be always said to be con- genital ; but whilst in some instances this anomaly is the result of original mal-confor- mation, as in the case of six instead of five fingers, in others it is the consequence of the persistence of parts which, in the ordinary progress of growth, are suppressed in their development. Of this description are super- numerary ribs and the os coccygis prolonged into a tail, or parts originally formed in two portions destined to be ultimately united may fail to become so, as in cases of hare-lip and double uvula. Although in the human sub- ject excess in number appears to be always congenital, in some of the inferior animals it may be subsequently acquired; thus certain reptiles which have the power of re-produc- ing a tail when the original has been ampu- tated, have been known, after injury to that organ, to produce a second, although the first has continued to be attached and nourished. Excess in the number of organs, or parts of organs, has been ascribed to a kind ot com- pensation, as when a child has been born with four fingers or four toes to the hand or foot, the same mother has given birth to another having six fingers or six toes. Deviation in respect of form.—Anomaly in this respect may be of such infinite variety, that it would be in vain to attempt to describe it; but its characters are so obvious that description is unnecessary. It may, however, be brought about in various ways : it may de- pend on original formation, as, for example, when the nose, instead of possessing its usual shape, assumes the form of a trunk,—a kind of monstrosity not very rare in the human subject, and rather frequent in some of the inferior animals, and generally, if not invaria- bly, concurring with the union or near ap- proach of the eyes on the median line. Perversion of form may be likewise ac- quired under the modifying operation of some neighbouring influence, as, for example, when the convex surface of the liver is indented by some anomaly in the form of the diaphragm, or when the form of the kidney is distorted by unusual pressure, occasioned by curvature of the spine. Some of the most striking per- versions of form of this description are pro- duced designedly by artificial means, employed through ignorance or culpable folly. The practice of moulding the form of the infants head, so as to produce a remarkable flatness of the forehead, has, from time immemorial, prevailed over a large district of the new