ANASARCA. 188 tains, for a considerable time, the pits or seams made upon it by the pressure ol the fingers or the clothes. The quantity of the effused fluid becoming more and more con- siderable, it becomes obedient to the laws of gravitation, and accumulates in those parts which are most depending ; but as these be- come overcharged, it ascends and distends the higher regions. At first the accumulation seems greatest in the evening, particularly if the patient has been much in the erect position during the day ; but after the repose of the night, it seems to disperse so that scarcely a trace of it is to be observed next morning. The quantity increases progressively, until the in- filtration is found to be general in the legs, thighs, scrotum, hips, loins, abdomen, chest, neck, face, eyes,—in a word, over all the sur- face of the body, with the exception of the palms of the hands and soles of the feet. Nor is the effusion confined to the cutaneous cel- lular tissue ; it penetrates also into the inter- muscular layers, and along the tracks of the great vessels. The muscular contractility is enfeebled under the great weight of the accu- mulation, and the patient moves with diffi- culty ; the surface is cold, and its sensibility is often blunted to such a degree that the skin may be cut, or even burned, without the patient’s being in the least aware of it. There is great thirst, and the urine is highly coloured, scanty, and sedimentous. When the disten- sion of the skin becomes extreme, it is sepa- rated by a considerable distance from the sources by which it is nourished ; the capilla- ries are attenuated, and convey but little blood ; and on this account there is a great tendency in the skin to inflame and slough, at various points, and from very trifling lesions. The pathological condition of the cellular tissue varies according to the cause in which the infiltration has originated, or the length of time the effused fluid has remained, as it were, stagnant in its areoles. When the cause is of the active or sthenic kind, and limited to the cellular element itself, this tissue will be found reddened, injected, and indurated at some points. When, on the other hand, the ana- sarca is a mere symptom of serious organic lesions, the cellular tissue is a mere recipient; it is inundated with fluid, at first without any sensible alteration of its structure. When this state of things continues, it suffers from maceration, it becomes discoloured, as do also the muscles ; their powers of resistance are impaired, and they are torn with the greatest facility. It will be often in the power of the surgeon to prevent this complication by well- timed interference ; but in general, the root itself of the evil is much more serious, and is only susceptible of palliation. Treatment.—The remedies to be had re- course to differ according to the causes and conditions in which the affection has had its origin. When it depends on simple excite- ment of, and is confined to, the cellular tissue, the antiphlogistic treatment is indicated. Fig. 51. Local .will be better than general bleeding, except in cases wdiere the disease has been produced by plethora; leeches in sufficient number may be applied to the margin of the anus, or the vulva, when it can be traced to suppression of habitual evacuations by haemor- rhoids, or the catamenia. Some surgeons prefer general bleeding in small quantities, and frequently repeated ; and it is certain that the anasarcous swelling is often dissipa- ted very rapidly under this plan of treatment. Saline and diaphoretic medicines are exhibited internally, with nitrated diluents ; and punctures may be made, without fear of bad con- sequences, when the effu- sion is considerable, in or- der to give issue to the fluid, and diminish the ten- sion of the skin. The point of a lancet is used for this purpose. An acupuncture needle will be found to answer better. Sir B. Bro- die uses a particular kind of needle for evacuating the serum. See fig. 51. The passive form of anasarca, whether it arise from morbid alterations of important or- gans, or from general debility, unaccompanied by such alterations, is in every point of view a more serious malady. Of course, the chances are more favourable for the patient, when the affection is nothing more than the indication of a general atonic condition. Here we must do the very reverse of what is recom- mended in the active form of the disease ; we must encourage, instead of repressing the movement of reaction. The patient’s reco- very will reward our perseverance in the em- ployment of proper hygienic and therapeutic means. But when the disease is merely the symptom of some serious lesion of the viscera, or of the great blood-vessels, cure is but too often beyond the reach of art. It is true, the surgeon will succeed in dispersing an anasar- cous effusion, dependent on the existence of a tumour, or the development of an aneuris- mal sac, by extirpating the one, or placing a ligature on the other ; but these are inappli- cable and insufficient in a vast number of other lesions of the vessels and viscera, and in which the surgeon can do no more than pal- liate the distress which may arise from the ex- cessive distension which the anasarcous effu- sion produces. The punctures recommended to relieve the over-distended skin in the anasarca from cel- lular inflammation, though capable of effecting the same object, viz. the evacuation of a con- siderable quantity of the fluid, is by no means so secure against bad consequences, and should be employed with great reserve. In some cases of a very urgent nature it will be proper to have recourse to them. It will be better