CONDYLOMA. 810 Condyloma attends chronic discharge, is pro- bably generated by it, and Forms, perhaps, the link between those affections of the mu- cous membrane of the vagina and urethra, which seldom occasion secondary symptoms, and the sores which are so prone to do so. The study of condyloma seems to me to de- rive a large share of interest from t his consi- deration : for, if it be correct, we find in con- dyloma a sufficiently powerful machinery for the constant production of specific sores, and an argument of no mean force in the hands of those who contend for the extreme antiquity of syphilis. It would be difficult to suppose that gonorrhoeal discharges were not early fruits of promiscuous intercourse ; and that uncleanly habits are not as old as the human race. These being given, may appear to leave the elements of venereal affections in all their usual forms. The treatment of this variety of condyloma must be regulated by the same principles as those which have been dwelt upon already. Aperients, containing mercury, to increase and to improve the alvine secretions—a strict attention to the urinary and cutaneous secre- tions—the warm hip-bath, and cleanliness in every way—the correction and arrest of the parent discharge, whether urethral or vagi- nal—and, lastly, the removal of the actual deposits, are the principal indications. It is not so easy, in every instance, to dis- perse the condylomata. It is singular that they yield with much more facility in some cases than in others. In the majority, they do not need, and probably would be little benefited by a course of mercury; but, oc- casionally, they resist all local applications, until the system has been submitted to its in- fluence. This should be a last resort—invoked only when the surgeon is satisfied, that milder and local means are ineffectual. Those local means may be glanced at. From the flatness of the deposits, as well as from their number, excision is, if not imprac- ticable, certainly improper ; the ligature can- not be applied, powerful escharotics are usually unnecessary, and, therefore, from the pain they occasion, reprehensible. The lotion of the bichloride of mercury agrees best in the majority of cases ; sometimes the solution of the acetate of lead, of more than ordinary strength, applied on lint, or through the me- dium of bread poultices, is more comfortable and more efficacious ; or, most benefit is de- rived from the zinc and lead ointment, or the black wash poultice, or the sulphate of zinc, or the chloride of lime. The weak ointment of the bichloride of mercury has proved an useful adjuvant, and I have seen advantage from that of the iodide of potassium. But, on the whole, when the condylomata are not extremely irritable, the bichloride lotion, and, when they are extremely irritable, the ace- tate of lead, are the remedies most to be de- pended on. III. ULCERATED VENEREAL CONDYLOMA. This, the third form under which I have ventured to describe condyloma, would ap- pear to be an advanced degree of the pre- ceding. It is distinguished from it by the fact of ulceration having taken place upon the surface ; each condylomatous deposit is a sore. On some, the ulceration is very superficial; the appearance being that of mucous mem- brane, or of fine and moistened cuticle ; on others, there is distinct flat ulceration—and, on others, the ulceration may be rather cupped. The tint is generally red ; seldom, save in the cupped ulcerations, yellow. The base, or sub- stratum of all, is firm ; for the obvious reason, that each is a condylomatous deposit. For the same reason, all are raised above the level of the neighbouring integument; all being, therefore, more or less “ elevated sores.” But the elevation depends on the existence of the condyloma, not on changes dependent on the sore itself—a distinctive fact of some import- ance. The essential features of these condyloma- tous sores may be briefly recapitulated : their number, size, and situation, following the laws which have been sufficiently alluded to—their elevated character—the flatness of their sur- face. They affect, at times, a peculiar form. A row of ulcerations may be seen on the free edge of either labium, extending from the upper to the lower commissure, correspond- ing very closely to each other, and looking not unlike a string of beads. This sore is usually small, not exceeding, perhaps hardly reaching, a couple of lines in diameter. The ulcerated condyloma is palpably pos- sessed of high contagious properties. Oppo- site surfaces infect each other ; and, wherever the discharge descends, fresh sores commonly spring up. I have seen them, in uncleanly women, stretch in scattered order down the inside of the thigh, even as low as the knee. The bead-like ulcers on the labia are evidently dependent on the power of infection possessed by the discharge. The ulcerated condyloma, like the other forms, is much more frequent in women than in men. It is found in a large proportion of the females received into the Lock Hospital. It. also resembles the other varieties in the profuse discharge, vaginal or urethral, that attends it. I have frequently examined, with the speculum, women who were labouring un- der it. In the greater number of instances, I have found no farther morbid appearance than a vascular state of the vagina. In some, I have observed the gelatinous or lymphlike uterine discharge ; in some, an appearance of abrasion of the mucous membrane ; in two, what looked exactly like condylomatous sores on the rectal side of the vagina; and, in two, what were the ordinary characters of syphilitic ulcers, with elevated edges and a hardened base, in nearly the same situation. I presume that in many, if not in most, in-