52G BUBO. The following observations will, therefore, be understood to apply to enlargement of any of the inguinal glands, occasioned by such general causes as affect the lymphatic system, or resulting from local irritation, including that of gonorrhoea. The lymphatic glands of the groin are dis- posed in two planes, the one superficial to the fascia lata, the other immediately beneath it. The former are termed the “ superficial ingui- nal glands,” the latter are known as the “ deep.” The superficial glands are immersed in the mass of subcutaneous cellular tissue and adeps, which is called, and not always with strict pro- priety, the superficial fascia. They are dis- posed below the ligament of Poupart, and around the saphena vein, where it is about to traverse the crural ring, and join the femoral. They vary in number and development, in different individuals ; and hence, perhaps, one reason for the greater tendency to bubo on the part of some persons than of others. The superficial inguinal glands receive the lymphatic vessels of the dorsum, and inner side of the foot, of the front, inner side, and back of the leg, and the lymphatics of the sur- face of the thigh ; these usually enter the inferior and the central glands. The more internal of the superficial glands receive the lymphatics of the scrotum, of the prepuce, and glans penis in the male, of the labia, nymph®, and clitoris in the female, and of the peri- neum in both sexes l. The glands in the middle, and on the outer side of the plexus, are supplied by the superficial lymphatics of the hypogastric and the lumbar regions. The more external glands receive the lymphatics of the nates. The deep inguinal glands present more varieties in number and development than the superficial ; indeed, they are frequently absent. They are ^placed, when they exist, below the fascia lata, and beneath the saphenous opening of the crural canal. The deep lymphatics of the foot, the leg, the ham, the anterior, inter- nal, and external parts of the thigh, join the deeper inguinal glands, or, in case of their de- ficiency, the superficial ones. I make no apology for introducing these 1 It is not an uncommon circumstance, to find one or more lymphatic glands on the pubes, into which the lymphatics of the prepuce on the dorsum penis enter. The vasa efferentia of these pubic glands, pass, I be- lieve, to the innermost of the inguinal. In inflam- matory phymosis, and in acute gonorrhoea, the pubic glands arc not unfrequehtly inflamed; more fre- quently, if I may trust my own experience, than the inguinal. An indurated absorbent may always be traced to them along the dorsum penis. It occasion- ally happens, as M. Cruveilhier has remarked, and as practical surgeons must have noticed, that the lympha- tics of the penis and the 6crotum avoid the glands which are most contiguous, and proceed to the lower ones in the neighbourhood of the saphena vein. A cir- cumstance worth remembering, as it impugns the truth of the current belief, that irritations of the exter- nal organs of generation affect only the higher and more internal of the glands of the groin. The rule has its exceptions. details, because they scarcely enter into a com- mon-place acquaintance with anatomy, and are necessary to explain the liability of particular glands to sympathise with particular parts. We may expect, for instance, that if the sur- face of the foot, or leg, or thigh, is irritated, the lowermost of the superficial inguinal glands will be affected. And this we often observe in cases of suppuration beneath acorn or bunion, in disease of the toe-nail, or its matrix, in wounds, in erysipelas, or diffuse in- flammation of the subcutaneous cellular tissue, after blisters, and from ulcers of various sorts. Indeed, if a patient complains of bubo, and he finds that the glands in question are en- larged, the surgeon may presume that the cause is in the lower portion of the limb, and not in the parts of generation. The suspi- cion will, in general, prove correct. I have already remarked, that the glands in connection with the external genital organs of both sexes, are the more internal of the superficial set. They may eularge from go- norrhaea, more particularly of the inflamma- tory kind ; from acute phymosis ; from exco- riations or from ulcers of the inner or outer prepuce ; from warts ; from condylomata on the scrotum or the perineum ; from encysted abscess in the female labium ; from haemor- rhoids 1 ; from fissures of the anus ; from abscess in the ischio-rectal fossa, and from fistula ; in short, from almost any description of temporary or permanent irritation in these quarters. As the external glands receive the lym- phatics of the nates, we cannot be surprised at boils in that direction giving rise at times to enlargement of them. I have also seen this from a caustic issue in the loins. In persons who have been subject to femo- ral hernia, some enlargement of the inguinal glands is not uncommon. The fact is worth mentioning, as inattention to it has led to embarrassment in the operation. M. Ricord, however, remarks, that bubo seldom occurs under a truss, and adduces this as an argument for the employment of compression. The inguinal glands enlarge at times, inde- pendently of any appreciable irritation in the course of the lymphatics leading to them. In some instances, this would seem to depend on an injury inflicted on them. A person, for example, makes some violent exertion, or takes a long walk, and a bubo follows. Or he has connection, and without the occurrence of excoriation, or of gonorrhaea, or of any kind of sore, there comes a bubo. No doubt, the greater number of what the French call the bubnns d'emblee, and of wdiat has been described as “ primary syphilitic bubo,” are no more than simple inflammatory enlarge- 1 I have twice, after tying internal piles, seen smart inflammation of the inguinal glands. In one case, the glands alone were affected; in the other, that of a lady of a highly nervous temperament, the sub-peri- toncal cellular tissue appeared to be extensively in- flamed, and the irritation seemed to travel by that route to the glands in the crural canal. 7