275 ANEURISM. and divided from Poupart’s ligament in the direction of the external incision. He next passed his finger beneath the margins of the in- ternal oblique and transversal is, and divided them upon it, the finger protecting the perito- neum. He was then at liberty to detach the peritoneum, and reach the vessel. After sepa- rating the artery from the vein, he passed a li- gature carefully around it, and tied it as high as an inch and a half above Poupart’s ligament. In another case in which Abernethy operated, he made his incision, not upon the line of the artery itself but somewhat more externally, in order not to wound the epigastric artery. As he adhered to this method afterwards, it will perhaps be proper to describe it more particu- larly. The patient is made to be somewhat inclined to the side opposite to that on which the operation is to be performed, in order to relax the abdominal muscles covering the tumour, and diminish the pressure of the intestines upon that side. An incision is then made half an inch to the outside of the abdominal ring, beginning just above Poupart’s ligament and ascending somewhat obliquely in the di- rection of the artery to the height of three inches. The aponeurosis of the external oblique having been divided, the index finger of the left hand is introduced beneath the lower border of the external oblique and transversalis ; a concave bistoury is then guided on the finger, and they are divided to the extent of an inch and a half. The peri- toneum is then cautiously detached until the pulsations of the artery are felt; its isolation and ligation are then effected as already de- scribed, care being taken to carry the point of the needle from within, outwards, in order to protect the vein from injury. Fig. 94. 1'ig. 94. Mr. Norman's plan for making the incision for placing a ligature on the external iliac artery. The superior lip of the wound is held open by an assistant, who sustains the abdominal viscera at the same time. The skin, muscles, and a fold of the f>eritoncum are thus held up. The lower lip is also retracted, exposing the external iliac fossa, upon which one of the lumbar nerves is seen, a, the ex- ternal iliac artery raised on an aneurism needle, d; b, the external iliac vein; e, the ligature; e, a re- tractor. The epigastric artery is given off from the inner side of the vessel at the inferior angle of the wound, where it may be tied in case of accident; a small nerve also accompanies the artery, which should not be included in the ligature. Sir A. Cooper’s method is somewhat different, and is thus described by Mr. Hodgson. “ A semilunar incision is made through the in- teguments in the direction of the fibres of the aponeurosis of the external oblique muscle. One extremity of this incision will be situated near the spine of the ilium ; the other will terminate a little above the inner margin of the abdominal ring. The aponeurosis of the external oblique muscle will be exposed, and is to be divided throughout the extent, and in the direction of the external wound. The flap which is thus formed being raised, the spermatic cord will be seen passing under the margin of the internal oblique and transverse muscles. The opening in the fascia which lines the transverse muscle through which the spermatic cord passes, is situated in the mid- space between the anterior superior spine of the ilium, and the symphysis pubis. The epigastric artery runs precisely along the inner margin of this opening, beneath which the external iliac artery is situated. If the finger therefore, be passed under the spermatic cord, through this opening in the fascia, it will come into immediate contact with the artery, which lies on the outside of the external iliac vein. The artery and vein are connected by dense cel- lular tissue, which must be separated, to allow of the ligature being passed round the former.” Mr. Norman of Bath, who has operated according to both modes, has the following judicious appreciation of them. “ The objec- tion to Sir A. Cooper’s mode of operating in cases where the tumour extends high up, is by no means well founded ; for the lower part of the bag of the peritoneum, lying on the edge of Poupart’s ligament, must in every case be exposed and detached, in order to get at the artery, which lies behind the posterior part of that membrane, and this is most easily effected by an incision in the direction of Poupart’s ligament; whilst two thirds of the longitudinal incision are made on a part of the peritoneum, which lines the abdominal muscles, and the lower portion only of the incision reaches that part of the membrane, which is to be separated. The consequences of this are, that the peritoneum is in much greater danger of being wounded, and that the probability of a hernia forming after the cure, is much increased by the extensive division of the oblique mus- cles.” ( Med. Chir. Trans, vol. x. p. 101.^ Another modification of this method was proposed by Bogros, who had so much distin- guished himself in his short but brilliant career as Chef de travaux anatomiques to the Faculty of Medicine of Paris. He made an incision, just above Poupart’s ligament about two or three inches long, the extremities of which were T 2