AMPUTATION. 162 Mode of performing the amputation.-—-An as- sistant commands the circulation in the radial and ulnar arteries ; the hand being' in prona- tion, the surgeon takes hold of the four fin- gers, and forms a dorsal flap, with a convexity towards the fingers, a little more than half an inch in front of the articulations, beginning the incision on the radial, or ulnar side, ac- cording as he may have to remove the right or left hand, and carrying it quite across the back of it (t, e, z, fig. 12). The skin being retracted, the extensor tendons are divided on a level with the joints, and the surgeon, with the point of the knife, follows the line described above (fig. 18), laying open the backs of the articulations, but without making any attempt to penetrate into them. When they are all divided, he presses with a certain degree of force on the hand, and luxates the bones ; he now completes the division of the ligaments, and getting the knife on the flat, on the palmar surfaces of the bones, carves a semilunar flap of an inch or an inch and a half in length, by carrying it for- wards and outwards. This process may be reversed, by first forming the palmar flap, then the dorsal, and luxating the bones in the manner already de- scribed. If only one or two of the metacarpals are to be removed, the method will then present a combination of the transverse dorsal and palmar incisions over the bones to be extir- pated, and one or two longitudinal ones, as the case may be, beginning at the interdigital commissure, and ending at the head of the bone, to isolate them from those that are spared. As a general rule, the amputation of the bones of the metacarpus, ought to be pre- ferred to that of the wist, when the disease or injury demanding it, does not extend to the carpus. This precept, however, is not laid down by systematic writers on surgery, nor has it been followed to so great an extent as it deserves, since it was first proposed. It is unquestionably an immense advantage to pre- serve a moveable portion of the member be- yond the wrist joint. Since the idea was first broached at the beginning of the present cen- tury, the operation has been performed with success bv Guthrie, Sully, Walther, Gensoul of Lyons, Troccon, and many others. In seve- ral cases on record, surgeons have not con- fined themselves, in these partial amputations of the hand, to the ablation of the metacarpal bones only, but have, at the same time, when circumstances required it, removed even one or more of the first range of the carpal bones. Whenever the thumb is not irretrievably involved in the disease, the surgeon should make an effort to preserve it, as the variety and extent of its movements make it still capable of executing many of the functions of the hand. All these operations require exact anatomi- cal knowledge, and considerable dexterity on the part of the operator. He who has not acquired facility of execution by frequent trials on the dead subject, should be cautious in undertaking.an operation, which, though sim- ple, may embarrass him. WRIST JOINT. Of the four bones in the second or upper range of the carpus, three only enter into the composition of the wrist-joint; these, counting from the thumb, are the scaphoid, the lunar, and the cuneiform. Together, they form a long oval, with a polished convex surface, which is received into an articular hollow of similar form, and concave also from front to back, prepared for it in the conjoined extre- mities of the two bones of the fore-arm, the radius and ulna. The styloid processes of these two bones are readily distinguished ; the articulation is placed a little below them. The transverse lines on the palmar surface of the wrist, immediately above the palm of the hand, will serve as guides to the articula- tion. The first of these lines corresponds to the interline that runs between the two rows of the bones of the carpus ; the second, which is nearly half an inch higher, corresponds to the wrist-joint. Sometimes a third line is seen still higher up the fore-arm, which points out the extent of the epiphyses of the bones. Malgaigne furnishes other data for recognizing accurately the position of the joint. If the hand be bent strongly back, the summit of the angle, which it will thus form with the fore- arm, will correspond with the articulation. Amputation of the hand at the wrist.—This operation is specially applicable, and, indeed, the most proper to be resorted to in those diseases which have spared the articulation of the wrist, and the soft parts surround- ing it. The great success that has hitherto attended it has not, as yet, obtained for this mode the preference it is entitled to, over amputations in the continuity of the fore-arm ; and many surgeons still resort to the latter, notwithstanding the encouraging results ob- tained by surgeons of the highest merit. It is performed, either by the circular, or the flap method. Circular method.—An assistant retracts the skin, and commands the circulation in the radial and ulnar arteries. The surgeon com- mences his incision, either on the dorsal or the palmar surface ; if on the latter, the edge of the knife runs in the line immediately above the thenar and hypothenar eminences. On reaching the upper part of the thumb, he turns the patient’s hand, first semi-prone, then prone, carrying the edge ot the knife across the back of the wrist, thus completing the circle. The skin being dissected back, and again retracted, the tendons are divided, and the knife enters the joint, either on the ra- dial or ulnar side, guided by the styloid pro- cess ; the section of the capsular ligaments is completed, by cutting in a curved line from one side to the other. The line in which the incision is traced leaves the pisiform bone on its palmar side, so that the operator cannot be embarrassed by it. Flap method.—The old method of perform-