7 It CATARACT. general reflection, but no distinct image, from the anterior surface of the crystalline body. “ If the lens is not in its place, but has been absorbed in consequence of an injury, been removed by an operation, or fallen down into a dissolved vitreous humour, neither inverted nor deep erect image is formed. “ In the diagnosis of incipient cataract and incipient amaurosis, the catoptrical test is per- fectly decisive; for in amaurosis, uncom- bined with glaucoma, the three images are always distinct, while in even the early stage of cataract, the inverted image is obscure. The diagnosis of incipient cataract and inci- pient glaucoma requires the catoptrical test to be familiar to the observer, else he may not be able to distinguish, that when the candle is held in the axis of the eye, the in- verted image is indistinct in both diseases, but whenever it is moved to one side, it be- comes distinct in glaucoma, and remains ob- scure in cataract § 9. Prognosis of Cataract. The prognosis in cases of cataract is very various, depending on the nature of the cata- ract, the age, and state of health of the patient, as also, upon whether or not the eye is other- wise sound. Spontaneous cataracts, in most cases, con- tinue to increase till they cause the loss of useful vision, while cataracts occasioned by injuries of the eye, particularly in young sub- jects, frequently become absorbed, so that a spontaneous cure takes place. Congenital cataracts cither remain stationary in the eye, or, if they are fluid, and the capsule bursts, an absorption of the fluid takes place, and a shrunken opaque capsule remains. In some cases of spontaneous cataract, in adults, the opacity remains stationary for a considerable number of years, allowing the patient the en- joyment of a considerable degree of useful vision. But when the capsule is affected, the lens generally becomes opaque. Cataracts may in general be removed by operations ; but these operations, though suc- cessful in removing the cataract, may not re- store the sight of the individual. For several morbid states of the eye, as well as changes produced by age, or the long inactivity of the organ, frequently frustrate success. The most important of these are a disorganized state of the vitreous humour and imperfect sensibility of the retina. From these causes, independent of the many diseased states of the eye with which cataract may be complicated, the vision of the patient is not improved by an operation, though completely successful, so far as the simple removal of the cataract is concerned. There are also several dangers attending operations for cataract, which ought always to be kept in view, and prevent the practitioner from raising the expectations of his patient to the most sanguine hopes of recovery, which may never be realized, by the unforeseen cir- ' Mackenzie, p. 640, 1. cumstances which have occurred, and may again occur, in the hands of the most able surgeons. These consist, in inflammation, and other unfortunate consequences, arising from the constitution or conduct of the patient, and from accidents which may occur either daring the performance ofoperations orsometime after. It is not easy to say in what proportion operations for cataract are successful; for few cases are, either completely uncomplicated or attended with circumstances in all respects favourable for operation,—so that all operators are obliged to operate on many complicated and unfavourable cases, which may be followed by only a partial success; while in others, success was scarcely expected. The prognosis, in cases of cataract, is to be considered favourable, when the disease is confined to the lens or capsule, provided the sensibility of the retina is undiminished, and the iris retains its healthy functions. The prognosis is most favourable in cases of con- genital cataract in young persons, where it has arisen from injury, and in the uncomplicated lenticular cataract of advanced life. It is also of importance to our pronouncing a favourable prognosis, that the constitution of the patient be sound, his health good, and his habit rather spare than full: for, upon these circumstances, connected with the general health of the pa- tient, the supervention of inflammation, or an escape from it, in a great measure depend. The two following cases illustrate this very strongly. From two individuals about the same age I extracted a cataract by the usual operation, and the circumstances of the cases seemed quite favourable. The one, however, was a glassblower, of a full habit, and had lived very intemperately for several years; the other was a female, who had lived on a milk and vegetable diet for several months on account of some internal complaint about the stomach or liver. In the first of these cases, delirium tremens, with furious delirium, came on the morning after the operation, and he died on the evening of the second day. The second case went on in the most favourable manner ; no inflammation took place, not a red vessel appeared on the white part of the eye, and in ten days the eye appeared to be quite well and vision restored. In the first case the patient had been copiously blooded, yet on dissection the choroid coat was thickly coated with lymph ; the other patient did not lose a drop of blood. From what has been already said, it is scarcely necessary to enumerate the circum- stances which, by their coexistence, render the prognosis, in cases of cataract, unfavour- able. Some of these render the prospect of sight being restored extremely doubtful, while others render the cases almost hopeless; so much so indeed, that their existence ought to forbid surgical interference. The circumstances which render the prog- nosis unfavourable are, a disorganized or fluid state of the vitreous humour, which is known by a softened state of the eyeball, a tremulous