C ATHETERISM. 736 ration till we come to treat of the diseased urethra. The fourth kind is described as existing in the orifices of the ducts of Cowper’s glands, and of the mucus follicles in the spongy portion of the canal. Amongst the latter, the lacuna magna in the upper part of the navicular dila- tation, is set down by most authors as capable of arresting the point of an instrument. But of this presently. The other obstacles that may prevent an instrument passing through the urethra are of a pathological character, and do not belong to our present subject, which is the sounding of the urethra free and unobstructed. An instrument having passed the glans, enters on the spongy portion of the urethra ; the obstacles, as it has been just mentioned above, which authors describe as likely to arrest it in this portion of the canal, are the orifices of the muciparous glands. These may figure in books, as obstacles, but they are not in reality such, not even in old age. We shall therefore hold no account of them, as obstacles ; the point of the catheter, if fairly directed in the axis of the canal, arrives at the bulb, without experiencing any interrup- tion. It has now to enter the opening of the triangular ligament just under the arch of the pubis, and above and behind the depression in the bulb. The kind of impediment it is liable to encounter here, has been already de- scribed. The point once passed beyond the opening in the triangular ligament, neither the depression in the bulb, nor the elevation which the urethra presents on its farther side, owing to the condensation of its tissue round the entrance of the muscular portion, nor the narrowness of this isthmus, can any longer oppose its progress. It is now in that portion of the canal which analogy assimilates to the commencement of the female urethra. The obstacles by which its progress is here liable to be impeded are relative to the sound itself, or to the urethra. The obstacle de- pends upon the instrument, when the direction in which it is impelled is vicious, and varies more or less from the axis of the urethra. Any considerable degree of deviation in this re- spect, particularly if it obtain in the evase- ment of the under surface, will, on account of the great extensibility and elasticity of the muscular portion, facilitate the capping of the bee of the sound, forming the nids de pigeon of the French surgeons. By the proper di- rection of the sound, whether in the male or female urethra, this obstacle is alike unknown, for it is only produced by the improper di- rection of the instrument. But the obstacle, which the most accurate direction cannot shield the instrument from, is that produced by the spasmodic action of this portion of the urethra. Sometimes this action is so power- fully excited, particularly when there is con- gestion or phlogosis of the mucous membrane, as to oppose in limine the penetration of any instrument; sometimes it comes on more gra- dually, allowing passage to a small extent, and then grasping the sound, prevents its further progress ; sometimes the occlusion of the canal is not so complete as to obliterate the passage, and a small wax bougie may obtain entrance, and even pass through ; and sometimes the passage of the instrument is unopposed, the contraction upon it taking place slowly, but so firmly as to imprison it in the urethra. At the entrance of the prostatic portion there is a very slight degree of narrowing, but there is nothing capable of arresting an instrument, on the score of mere narrowness, to an equal extent as at the isthmus. It must be observed, however, that the under edge of the gland may be so raised as to produce a considerable inequality of level, in the under surface of the muscular and prostatic portions; this obtains most in cases where the prostate is much enlarged. In describing the fixed portion of the urethra (see that article), it is stated, that from the neck of the bladder to the under part of the symphisis of the pubis, it forms a gentle curve. This description will be found correct, if we speak of the urethra in the adult; but if applied to the urethra of old age, it will require some qualification. The orifice of the urethra, at the neck of the bladder, lies in a plane, several lines higher than the portion of the canal that passes under the symphisis. In aged persons, the distance between these two points, is not only in- creased, but the level of the internal orifice may ascend still higher, by half an inch, or even more. The curve of the whole fixed portion is thus not only much augmented, but the regularity of its line on its under surface is interrupted by the anterior edge of the pro- state, which breaks the whole curve into two lesser curves, including the muscular and pro- static portions respectively : this elevation of the anterior edge of the prostate, a conse- quence of its general augmentation of volume, may present a bar to the entrance of an in- strument into the prostatic portion of the urethra. Once over this edge, the instrument, if directed in the course of the axis of the canal, will now advance unimpeded to the sinus, at the base of the verumontanum. It must he remembered that this fleshy eminence occu- pies the middle of the circumference of the canal, on its inferior surface, and that the in- strument, in order to pass into the bladder, must either course by the side of the comb, or ride over it, by first depressing it. The catheters now in use are not of the form best calculated to render this manoeuvre easy and painless, as it should be ; in the sequel we shall describe the shape of catheter employed by ourselves and others of late years, with a view to render cathcterism easy, not only in respect of this specific difficulty, but to adopt it for riding smoothly, and without hitching, through the other depressions that occur in the course of the urethra. Having passed or depressed the verumon- tanum, the catheter glides into the bladder, over the smooth floor of the prostate. But