825 CONIUM. quity, by which the criminals at the Areopagus of Athens were put to death; and agree with Plutarch in attributing to it the death of So- crates and Phocion. Although conium had been celebrated amongst the ancients chiefly on account of its poisonous properties, we learn, nevertheless, from the writings of Hippocrates and Galen, that it was employed as a medicinal agent in the earliest days of medicine. Our ancestors confined themselves principally to administer- ing it externally, as a soothing and resolutive remedy ; but we are informed by Saint Jero- my, in one of his epistles, that the Egyptian priests were in the habit of reducing them- selves to a state of impotency by drinking daily small quantities of the juice of hemlock. Aretseus also mentions its power of tranquil- lizing and moderating the venereal passions. In the last century, however, it was pre- scribed in Germany, in full doses, in cases of impotency ; and, in proof of its efficacy in that disease, we have the following statement, by Bergius, an author of respectability:— “ Impotentiam virilem sub usu conii curatam observavi, in viro quodam plusquam quadrage- nario, qui omnem erectionem penis perdiderat, postinde tamen plures liberas procreavit.” The same writer also recommends conium in cases of leucorrhcea and of gonorrhoea. He says— “ In leucorrhcea lotiones ex infuso conii mul- turn levant, praecipue si usus conii internus iis jungatur. Gonorrhoeas recentes cum pilulis conii, et infuso insimul largiter hausto, stepis- sime intra mensem secure curavi; in gonor- rhceis inveteratis conium cum mercurio subli- mato conjungo1.” The employment of the officinal hemlock, as a therapeutic agent, had been long aban- doned, and its name consigned to oblivion, when M. Reneaulme, a French surgeon, pub- lished some essays on its medicinal properties, and immediately afterwards (in 1700), Baron Stoerck instituted those experiments with co- nium, and certain other narcotic plants, the pub- lication of which attracted, to these remedies the attention of all the physicians of Europe. By experimenting on animals and on himself, Stoerck proved that conium might be admi- nistered internally without any danger, and ad- vanced the opinion resulting from his experi- mental investigations,—that, with the assist- ance of this drug, many diseases, and even those which had been hitherto regarded as irremediable, might be radically cured. The experiments of Stoerck were repeated in Eng- land, in Italy, and in France, but with results very different to those anticipated ; and the extravagant opinions advanced in favour of the specific nature of conium were, by these im- partial investigations, soon reduced to their proper standard. It is extraordinary how men of learning and sagacity, in every age, have allowed themselves to be led away from the paths of observation, or even of truth, by some 1 Materia Mcdica c Regno Vcgctabili, &c. by Petrus Jonas Bergius. Stockholm, 1782. fortuitous phantasy or illusion; and how a writer of such general accuracy and acumen as Van Swieten, could, not only believe, but promulgate as irresistible truths, the exag- gerated and improbable statements of Baron Stoerck, is not a little to be wondered at. The former gives a long list of cures of “ can- cer,” of “ obstinate lues,” of “ arthritis,” of “in- veterate gonorrhoea,” of “ venereal scirrhous testicle,” &c. &c. performed “ by Stoerck’s hemlock,” and concludes his laudatory re- marks by stating, that the use of cicuta has been remarkably profitable in venereal cases, which neither a salivation, other mercurial remedies, nor decoctions, could in any way subdue. Of late years, M. Recamier has ex- tolled in equally unqualified terms the sanative powers of conium, especially in cases of can- cer. He regards it as a decided specific for that disease, and states, in his “ Researches on the Treatment of Cancer,” that he has cured a great number of cases of cancerous engorge- ment, occupying various parts of the body, by the administration of the extract of hemlock. M. Recamier strongly recommends that a rigid abstinence should be observed on the part of the patient during the time he is taking the drug, to which circumstance, as M. Ratier pertinently observes, the boasted beneficial results of the exhibition of conium are perhaps mainly attributable. Although we deny that conium is entitled to the character of a specific, or has any claim to the wonderful properties which it was re- puted to have possessed, we by no means think it of little value as a remedial agent. There are many diseases, and stages of disease, for which it is peculiarly adapted as a palliative medicine. For which it is preferable, even to opium, as a narcotic and sedative, and over whose irritable and excitable nature it exerts a soothing influence which no other drug seems to possess. In the last stages of cancer and phthisis pulmonalis it will be found espe- cially serviceable, in tranquillizing the nervous irritation attendant upon those conditions, and in lulling the pain more rapidly, and for a greater permanency, than any other medi- cine. Sir Everard Home states, in his excellent treatise, that mild means have been employed in the treatment of cancer with great advan- tage, and adds—“ The treatment in my own practice that calls forth this commendation, is the internal and external use of hemlock; and in proof of its palliative efficacy, in some cases where the medicine was left off, the symptoms became more violent, and, when resumed, abated. I have even prevented the operation when the day was fixed, and the patient lived for months under this palliative mode of treat- ment, without any progress of the tumour, and was carried off ultimately by epileptic fits.” Hemlock has also been recommended in the hectic stage of cancer, in combination with iron, and, according to Justamond and Mr. Car- michael, of Dublin, has been found exceed- ingly serviceable in allaying the distressing