363 FRACTURE. a footboard with a hole in its centre, through which to draw the band that makes extension on the lower extremity of the limb : the ob- ject of this hole is to form a pulley, so that the band may operate in a perpendicular di- rection, before it is turned and secured to the lower end of the outer splint; the extension should be equally made from each side of the limb, and the band applied as for the reduc- tion of dislocations ; it may be made of a piece of calico, several times doubled, and forming a band about an inch and a half wide ; it must be sufficiently long and smooth to lie flatly. A piece of leather is placed between the band and the skin, further to prevent any injury from the pressure. We have seen, that in fractures of the femur, just below the trochanters, the upper fragment is drawn forward by the psoas and iliacus muscles : now this projection, which is urged as an objection against the treatment by the straight posture, is said to have gra- dually subsided in a case related by Dr. Hous- ton, and treated by him. The projection was remarkable during the first days after the ac- cident, but subsided with gentle pressure on the fore part of the thigh, and the fracture finally assumed a perfect coaptation. In the present state of our experience, however, this happy event is not to be generally anticipated ; and cases will be met with, in which the up- per fragment is so short and so directly thrust forwards, that its point alone can be pressed on. Dupuytren’s 1 method of flexing the leg, in cases of fracture of the upper part of the femur, was very simple. A sufficient number of pillow's adjusted beneath the leg, and a broad bandage to secure the foot to the bed, comprised the whole apparatus. Sir A. Cooper employed a similar plan for instances of fracture within the cotyloid capsule. The double inclined plane, of w hich very numerous modifications are to be met with among its advocates, may be regarded, I think, on the whole, as the favourite apparatus with British surgeons. The following has had too many concerned in its construction for us to be able to ascribe it to a single inventor. Fig. 322. Fig. 322 represents a double in- clined plane, which is chiefly em- ployed for fractures affecting the inferior half of the thigh. A thigh piece, a, the lower end of tvhich is capa/jle of graduated elongation, is united by means of a hinge (regulated by a male and female screw, c,) to a leg- piece, l; and a foot-piece with a shoe and straps is attached by an iron pin, and capable of being adapted for a longer or shorter limb. Fig. 323. Fig. 323 may explain a common method of arranging the under part of the preceding figure. The thigh-piece, g, has a rack, f (in lieu of a male andfemale screw,) with a steel-bar reaching to the middle of Hie leg-piece, and a series of buttons along the middle of the thigh-piece by ivhich the flexion at the knee is regulated. At the upper end of the thigh- piece, h, is a sliding metal plate, with rounded and everted edges, and two screws sliding in grooves or fissures, i, by which the length of the thigh-splint may be suited to different limits as occasions require. Studs, l l, are distri- buted about the leg and thigh- pieces, and serve to make the straps or bandage more secure. A pelvis-strap, A fig., single or doMe, is required to fix the splint to the body and short thigh-splints to produce compres- sion before and laterally. sition, by a frame, which consists of two boards, ten or eleven inches wide, the one supporting the thigh, from the ischium to the ham, and the other reaching from the ham to the heel; and the tw'o are united at an angle under the knee-joint: two inclined planes are thus formed, and the whole is based upon a long horizontal board that rests upon the bed. Over these sloping surfaces, to which cushions are adapted, the limb is to be placed. An outer and an inner splint are to be applied along the thigh, after the displace- ment has been reduced ; and the edges of the inclined planes, along which holes have been previously prepared, are then furnished with pegs that inclose the whole. Without a foot- board and roller, however, the leg and foot cannot be sufficiently fixed ; and then this appa- ratus is less complete than the oblique planes of Amesbury and MTntyre, which admit of being inclined to any angle. A pelvis and thigh straps add much to their efficiency, and in fractures near the trochanters, deformity must almost necessarily ensue, if something equiva- lent to the pelvis strap be not employed. The double inclined plane, as usually con- A more simple form of the double inclined plane than is generally used, is preferred by some surgeons. The patient lies upon his back, with the limb supported in a flexed po- 1 As a surgical writer, not only on fractures, but on all practical subjects, perhaps it is not easy to find a name of modern days to set before that of Dupuy- tren. •