824 CONIUM. tion becomes more moderate, and the line of separation between the living and dead parts more distinctly marked, free suppuration comes on, to promote which, by means of stimulating poultices or of emollient poultices, alternated with hot applications, is found to accelerate the detachment of the sloughs. When morti- fication is not confined to the integuments, but has pervaded the whole thickness of a limb, the unassisted powers of nature are rarely sufficient to effect a cure, and amputa- tion becomes necessary. Sometimes indeed, when the line of separation forms in the im- mediate vicinity of a joint, and the joint is of small size, as in the fingers and toes, the patient may be spared the pain of a regular operation, and the knife be employed merely to cut the ligaments and facilitate the removal of the dead parts. When again the line of separa- tion takes place at a distance from the articu- lating ends of the bones, or although near a joint, if that joint be of large size, amputation is indispensably necessary, and it ought to be performed as soon as circumstances will admit. The constitutional treatment of mortifica- tion, if the circulation be in a vigorous state, should be of the same mild antiphlogistic kind which we have recommended in cases of in- flammation. Very generally, however, and more especially when the mortification is ex- tensive, the pulse is feeble and rapid, with other symptoms indicative of depression of the vital powers. Wine, and other alcoholic sti- mulants, and opium are our principal remedies in such circumstances. The Peruvian bark or quinine may likewise be employed, although the surgeons of the present day have much less faith in the virtues of these medicines than their predecessors. 5th, Ulceration.—The treatment of surfaces in a state of ulceration constitutes the most tedious part of the duty of the surgeon, with respect to congealed parts, as well as with respect to those that have been burned, and in both cases the treatment is conducted on the same general principles. The superficial sores, which originate in the bursting of vesi- cations, heal readily under any mild or gently stimulant ointment. The more extensive sores which originate in the detachment of sloughs, or which are formed by the confluence of smaller sores having different modes of origin, are sometimes exceedingly difficult to heal. They throw up flabby granulations, and show no tendency to cicatrize, while the strength of the patient is exhausted by the profuseness of the discharge. Resinous dressings, red precipitate, sulphate of copper, nitrate of silver, and compression by means of bandages, are among the most useful means of cure; and these must be directed and varied according to the usual principles which regulate the surgical treatment of ulcers. Sometimes a sore, such as we have described, occupies a limb in its whole circumference, and nearly in its whole length, although sores so exten- sive much less frequently arise from congela- tions than from burns. In such cases, if the strength of the patient is rapidly sinking, and no progress has been made in the cicatrization of the sore, amputation of the limb presents the only chance of preserving life, and we have, therefore, no hesitation in saying that it ought to be performed. The incision should, if possible, be made in the sound skin above the sore, but if that be impossible from want of room above, we do not consider the circum- stance any insuperable objection to the opera- tion, for we have known a cure effected when the flaps were partly in a state of ulceration, and even although the flaps should be ul- cerated all over, still the wound inflicted may be very trifling when compared with the local disease which the operation has been the means of removing. 6th, Chilblains.—The preventive part of the treatment of chilblains is not the least impor- tant. Persons subject to them should have the parts most liable to be affected properly defended from the cold, and should avoid as much as possible all sudden alternations of temperature. On being accidentally chilled they should beware of heating the chilled parts at the fire; a much more salutary re- action will be excited in them by immersion in cold water, and afterwards carefully drying and rubbing them till the proper heat is re- stored. This practice, although somewhat repugnant to the feelings, will be found to be one of the most effectual preservatives against chilblains. Regular immersion of the hands and feet in cold water, followed by friction, will also be found useful in giving tone to the superficial tissues, and enabling them to resist the action of cold. The inflammation which accompanies chil- blains does not require the depletory treat- ment recommended in phlegmonous affections. Stimulant lotions, consisting of alcohol or oil of turpentine, either alone or holding resinous and other acrid substances in solution, are the best applications. When ulceration has taken place the sores will be found to heal most readily under stimulant dressings. It ought to be farther remarked that the immersion in cold water, recommended above as a preven- tive, ought not to be discontinued, either during the inflammatory or ulcerative stage ot chilblains, for it does not in any way interfere with the treatment, but on the contrary acce- lerates the cure. liim.ioGkathy :—Richter, Siclierste griindliclie Heilung alter Frostbeuleu und erfromer Gleider ; 2tc Aufl. Pirna, 1804. Larrey, Memoirc sur la Gangrene sechc causee par lo Froid, oil Gangrene de Con- gelation; in Mein, de Cliir. Militaire, vol. iii. p. GO. Lisfranc, in Revue Med. Feb. 1821, p. 301. (Andrew Buchanan.') CONIUM. (Kwvuov, Gr.; cicuta, Lat.; cicuta maggiore, Ital. ; ague grand, Fr. ; conio manchado. Span.; Sckierling, Ger.) The phar- macopceial name of the officinal hemlock. The classic celebrity and associations con- nected with the history of conium, will ever invest it with an interest which no other drug can possess. Linnaeus and Lamarck were of opinion that it was the state poison of anti-