BLADDER. 471 different operations. It is, perhaps, right not to omit these in a systematic work of this kind; but the young surgeon ought always to bear in mind, that without previous practice in using the instrument on the dead subject, these will be of little service in giving him the requisite tact and dexterity in operations on the living body. (See Incision.) (Wm. Fergusson.) BLADDER (mime, Or. vesica, Lat.; ves- sie, Fr.) The urinary bladder is a muscular mem- branous bag, of a round, elongated shape, situ- ated in the cavity of the pelvis, behind the symphysis of the pubis, and in front of the rectum, in the male, and of the vagina, in the female, and serving as a temporary reservoir for the urine, which it has the power of expel- ling at variable intervals, through the urethra. The bladder is liable to a great number of affections, most of which fall within the scope of surgery, and may be enumerated as fol- lows :—defects of conforma ion, inflammation, wounds, rupture, hernia, cancer, fungus, vari- cose enlargement of veins, retention and in- continence of urine, foreign bodies, and fistula. In this place we shall confine ourselves to the consideration of its anatomical structure, and the defects of conformation which it occasion- ally presents. The several portions of the bladder are de- scribed as the body, and the superior and infe- rior fundus ; the latter terminates in the neck, or cervix, the former in the urachus. The walls of the bladder are composed of three layers, the muscular, the vascular, and the membranous ; to these a fourth may be added, the peritoneal; as the bladder, although external to the peri- toneum is covered at its superior fundus, and over a portion of its posterior wall, by this membrane, as by a cloak. Throughout the rest of its extent, it is connected to the sur- rounding parts by cellular tissue of so loose a texture, as greatly to facilitate the changes which the viscus undergoes in passing from vacuity to plenitude, and vice versa. The muscular layer, or coat, consists of mus- cular fibres arranged in a great variety of forms, some running longitudinally .others transversely or obliquely, and interlacing and crossing each other at intervals. At the inferior fundus these fibres form the sphincter of the bladder, and they are seen to take the direction of the two orifices of the ureters, thus bounding a space to which Lieutaud gave the name of trigone. The vascular layer is very thin, and lies between the muscular and the membranous ; the latter is smooth, unless when rendered uneven by the volume and irregularity of the muscular columns. Defects of Conformation.—The bladder may be entirely wanting. Benninger relates, that in opening the body of Abraham Clef, he could not find a bladder, and that the sound introduced into the urethra passed directly into cither ureter. On laying them open, no intermediate cavity could be discovered. Richardson relates the case of a Yorkshire boy, aged 17, who had never voided his urine by the urethra; the ureters opened into the rectum. The urine thus passing by the anus gave rise to constant diarrhoea, which did not, however, impair the health. The ureters have also been known to open into the vagina in the female. All these malformations, however, are com- paratively rare. Another, which is met with from time to time, but more frequently in the male, and which is known under the name of extropliy, or extraversion of the bladder consists in the deficiency of the anterior wall of this viscus ; in these cases, the symphysis of the pubis, is not closed, and just above it a portion of the abdominal walls in front of the bladder is wanting, and in its place the posterior wall of the bladder is thrust out by the weight of the intestines. The mucous membrane of the bladder, which is thus exposed, presents itself as a tumour of a deep red colour. At its infe- rior part two small nipples, the orifices of the ureters are seen, from which the urine oozes or flows constantly. The navel is exceedingly small. The external parts of generation are also, more or less, malformed; in the male, the penis is short, a slit representing a rudi- mentary urethra; in the female, the urethra opens above the clitoris, or remains closed by a fold of membrane. This malformation cannot be remedied by the resources of art; and as the subject advances in life, the urine being con- tinually poured out on the surrounding skin, produces scalding, excoriation and erysipela- tous pustules, which cause great annoyance ; the clothes too, become saturated with the urine, which infects the room with its of- fensive smell. It would, however, be easy to obviate the evil to some extent, by adapting a caoutchouc bag with a proper rim to re- ceive the protruded membrane. The bag could be emptied from time to time, and changed occasionally; and in this way, by great attention to cleanliness, the individual might be rendered tolerably comfortable. Another defect of conformation, which, however, affects the urethra, as much as the bladder, consists in the occlusion of the ure- thra by a fold of membrane, the urachus re- maining pervious, and the urine being voided by the navel. Cabrol treated a case of this kind, of which he thus quaintly gives the his- tory 1 “ En l’annee 1550, estant a la suite de mon- seigneur de Montmorancy, dans la ville de Beaucaire, sur les quatre heures du soir, fut faict un salue d’arquebuzades pour la garde de la ville, au-deuant de la porte de madamoyselle de Varie, ou pour lors i’estoy assis avec plu- sieurs damoyselles, ceste scopetrie apporta vn dommage particular, car le papier de l’une de ces arquebuzades donnant sur le sable, resaillit sur la visage et sur les mains de trois ou quatre, dont je fus appcle pour penser la plus blessee; en la pensant je senty une puanteur d’vrine si forte que je fus presque contraint de la quitter sans acheucr de la penser, ne sfachant toutc- 1 Cliopart, vol. i. pp. 330, 33.0.