ANGEIOLEUCITIS. 291 The Erythema nodosum is a disease, which, to a certain extent, might impose on the prac- titioner. In some cases, this affection, which is characterized by the sudden development of a variable, sometimes a considerable num- ber of red or livid patches spread here and there over different parts of a limb, is pre- ceded by fever for two or three days, and so far really does present some analogy to angeio- Ieucitis. Happily, the dark hue of those patches, and their superficial position, the ap- pearance of fluctuation which they present, and their sudden disappearance after a few days, without leaving any trace behind, in conjunction with the absence of general symp- toms, and of engorgement of the ganglions after they have been once developed, will not leave us long in doubt as to their true nature. With one moment’s reflection, indeed, the error would be scarcely possible. Pathological Anatomy.—The alterations that follow inflammation of the lymphatic vessels, are of three kinds : the first is of the vessels themselves; the second takes place in the in- terposed tissues; the third must be sought for in the viscera, in the blood, and in the remote regions. In consequence of their minuteness, the lymphatic vessels, even after they have been inflamed, are not always easy to be examined in the dead subject. When they can be suc- cessfully isolated their internal surface is found to be slightly tomentous, and rather of a milk-white than a rosy colour ; on the out- side, they are surrounded with cellular tissue, which is easily broken down, and more or less infiltrated with a turbid, half concrete lymph; their parietes are evidently thickened. I have several times ascertained that even under these circumstances, their permeability may be maintained. The points most dis- eased are those which correspond to their crossings, and those opposite to their valves ; it is at these points that their envelope is often found infiltrated with true pus, that they are closed, that lardaceous cores are ob- served, the same as in the centre of an abor- tive phlegmon, and that we must look for the origin of some of those abscesses, that have been observed during the progress of the disease. The skin, which is sometimes covered with large phlyctenes, presents towards the end scattered eschars, or mortified patches. These patches are greyish, or of a yellow white; they are softened, puffed, and in a state of purulent decomposition, or rather of gangrene,—their aspect bearing some analogy to the soft tenacious centre of the furuncle or anthrax. Beneath the integuments, the cel- lular tissue is found to possess a healthy cha- racter in some places; in others, it is more or less indurated, and, as it were, lardaceous, in- filtrated with pus or turbid serum, broken up by ulceration wherever purulent collections have taken place, and more or less thickened throughout. The fascine, muscles, and nerv- ous cords are but little altered, the disorders being confined chiefly to the interstitial cellu- lar tissue. Between the muscles, around the vessels, in a word, wherever this tissue exists, it ,is infiltrated, hardened, thickened, or de- stroyed, from space to space, in the same manner as we observe under the skin. When there is suppuration, the matter is found in circumscribed collections, rather than in sinuses, or canals; and, unless in a very rare case, no mortified tissue can be discovered beneath the fascia. The arteries and veins are sometimes thickened or increased in size; but in dissecting them, this appearance is found to depend on the thickening of their external layers, and on their vicinity to the larger lymphatic vessels. If the disease has existed for any time, the blood is in general very fluent, abounding in se- rum of a reddish rather than a dark colour. The few coagula which are found in the nervous system are diffluent, and frequently mixed with yellow grains. When polypiform concretions are found in the arterial system they are also more pliable than those met within persons who die of diseases purely inflammatory ; they are also less homogeneous, and they fre- quently present yellow, black, white, and red fasciculi. Pus, however, has not been found either in the ventricles or the great vascular trunks. Abscesses are but very rarely discovered in the parenchymatous organs, and those which are found in the liver and lungs are more numerous than large. When angeioleucitis has had its source in a cancerous affection we find instead of them, concrete masses; sero- purulent effusion in the pleura, in the perito- neum, in the articulations, partial inflammation of the viscera, with hepatization and infiltra- tion of pus, are also frequently observed. The brain seldom exhibits any appearance of lesion ; and in the stomach and intestines the traces of inflammation are extremely faint. The follicles and agglomerate patches of Peyer are neither enlarged nor ulcerated ; and if any ulceration is perceptible, it is found rather in the neighbourhood of the large in- testines and the rectum. On the whole, the in- ternal lesions found after death are often very disproportionate to the symptoms observed during life. The same remark is not wholly inapplicable to the local lesions ; for we often find that the traces of inflammation are slight where the angeioleucitis had appeared to be severe. The lesions found after death, when caused by phlegmonous erysipelas, are much more profound. Treatment.—All the plans of treatment adopted in phlebitis, erysipelas, and diffused phlegmon have been resorted to in inflamma- tion of the lymphatic vessels ; in the first place, because these affections have been mis- taken for each other ; secondly, because as an inflammation it would seem to indicate the use of the usual antiphlogistic and debilitating remedies; and, finally, because as it frequently disappears spontaneously, thus offering an in- stance of an inflammation, the gravity of which presents innumerable shades, the prac- U 2