209 ANEURISM. nerves, veins, and lymphatics are thus exposed to a considerable degree of compression, the normal relations of the bones and muscles are altered, the motions of the limb are impeded and painful, and there is infiltration of the leg and foot, with pain and numbness. In some instances this strangulation has proceeded so far as to disorganize the great nerves, and produce mortification of the limb itself; in others, the bones, cartilages, &c. have become eroded ; the aponeurosis will, however, not unfrequently give way first, the aneurismal sac being then covered by the integument alone. Sometimes too, inflammation seizes on the whole tumour, and the aneurism is cured by being converted into an abscess. Aneurisms occur frequently in the hollow of the ham, a circumstance which has been attributed by some surgeons to its vicinity to the knee-joint, where it is exposed to inces- sant flexion and extension. Flexion and ex- tension however, so long as the coats of the artery are in a healthy state, will not cause an aneurism, and it is only when the tunics of the vessel have undergone some morbid altera- tion, that these become the occasional cause of its production. It has been observed to occur with comparative frequency in coach- men, jockeys, postillions, and drunkards. Mr. Hodgson’s plan of determining the frequency of aneurism in the different arteries has been followed out on a more extensive scale by Lisfranc. The following table exhi- bits the relative frequency of each in 179 cases of aneurism, those of the aorta being omitted : 1. Popliteal 59 2. , (at the groin emora a^. otj)er p0jnts 26 18 3. Carotid 17 4. Subclavian . 16 5. Axillary in the arm-pit 14 6. External iliac 5 7. Innominata 4 8. Brachial 3 9. Primitive or common iliac 3 10. Anterior tibial . 3 11. Gluteal 2 12. Internal iliac 2 13. Temporal . 2 14. Internal carotid . 1 15. Ulnar 1 16. Peroneal . 1 17. Radial 1 18. Palmar 1 Mr. Hodgson’s table contains 03 cases, in- cluding, however, 29 of the aorta and innomi- nata. The remaining cases are : Carotid ..... 2 Subclavian and axillary . . 5 Inguinal . . . . .12 Femoral and popliteal . . 15 The above tables embrace cases of sponta- neous aneurism only. It is but little more than fifty years since our best surgeons were afraid to place a liga- ture on such a large vessel as the popliteal. The idea, that by obliterating the main trunk, the mortification of the limb became inevit- able, induced a belief that the aneurisms in this region, which had resisted the treatment by compression and debilitation, could only be treated by amputation; and when a case occurred, where success had followed the ap- plication of a ligature, its importance was ex- plained away by attributing the fortunate re- sult to some anomalous distribution of the vessels, furnishing other channels of supply. The capabilities of the collateral circulation were to a great extent unknown. In this region, the anastomosing branches, though small, are numerous, and the articular arteries instead of being insufficient, are much more likely to cause the return of pulsation in the aneurismal tumour, by the great force of the recurrent circulation, which soon becomes established through them. Compression has been successfully resorted to in a certain number of instances, but they have not, however, been sufficiently numerous to permit the surgeon to be very sanguine of a favourable result, whatever be the mode of compression he may adopt. Neither should he rely on Valsalva’s method, to the waste of valuable time. Under favourable circum- stances, and where the patient is timid and young, refrigerants, compression, and debilita- tion may be had recourse to, separately or conjointly, and with advantage ; but the sur- geon should know when to desist: he should hazard nothing in favour of a remedy which, though more tolerable to the imagination of the patient, is at the same time less efficacious and less certain than that which he looks upon as a dernier ressort. These aneurisms, however, like all others, are sometimes cured spontaneously; and more than once, patients admitted into hospitals for the purpose of undergoing the operation, have been dismissed cured, without the inter- vention of any other means than rest and simple bandaging. Before Hunter’s time, when the ligature was had recourse to, the mode employed was to place one, both above and below the tu- mour, according to Keysler’s plan, and emp- tying it of the coagulum. In this country, a plan so dangerous was soon supplanted by the Hunterian operation. In France, how- ever, it was continued until a comparative^ recent period. Boyer was one of the last of its defenders. Neither Brasdor’s nor Mr. Wardrop’s me- thods have been as yet employed in these cases ; but it is the opinion of some very good authorities, Velpeau among others, that where the tumour is still small, and has not produced extensive disturbance, and that it is situated so high in the ham as to leave a sufficient portion of the vessel below the articulation to allow room for placing a ligature, that one or other of these methods might be tried with a fair prospect of success.