EAR, AND HEARING, DISEASES OF. 38 other of those operations, viz. closure of the Eustachian tube, had been always unequivo- cally ascertained to exist. As to the prognosis in the cases under con- sideration, the absence of any benefit from the air-douche did not encourage to its fur- ther use ; and this combined with the long standing of the cases, equally forbade the hope of obtaining advantage from any appli- cation made directly to the membrane lining the tympanic cavities. The following case, one not of such long standing as the above, presented, during the exploratory treatment, the same signs to the listening ear, but some improvement supervened on the use of the air-douche, and the injection of ethereal va- pours. The strong tendency, however, in this case to fall back from what slight advan- tage was gained discouraged from persever- ance in the treatment. Case VIII. — Obstruction of the Eustachian tubes ascertained by the air-douche. After the removal of the obstruction still an im- pediment to the free circulation of air in the middle ear. Partial and temporary improve- ment in hearing from the treatment. Friday, December 7th.—Mrs. . Hear- ing distance of the right ear ten inches and a half, of the left ear thirteen inches and a half. Noises in the ears, extending as if over the whole head. Noticed some defect of hearing three years ago, but it is within eleven months only that the deafness has become very marked, and it has been gradually increasing. External auditory passages natural. The mcmbrana tympani not quite so opalescent and transparent as natural. Hearing slightly improved on blowing the nose. Monday 10th.—Introduced a catheter into the Eustachian tube of the left side, and ap- plied the air-douche. The air did not at first enter the tympanum, but it at last did so in a small stream with a slight gurgling, vibrating sound. Wednesday, 12th.—Hearing distance of the left ear has risen to one foot ten inches and a half. The air-douche to the left ear was re- peated and entered, but not very freely. Im- mediately after, the hearing distance was found risen to two feet three inches. Saturday, 15th.—Hearing distance with the left ear, two feet seven inches. The ap- plication of the air-douche repeated to the left ear. After this the hearing distance was found diminished, and the noises in the ear somewhat increased. Hitherto the air-douche had not been ap- plied to the right ear, in consequence of the meatus of that side of the nose being so con- tracted as not to allow the passage of the smallest catheter. Notwithstanding this the hearing distance of the right ear was now found to have increased slightly. Wednesday, 19th.— Hearing improved very much after last visit, but on Sunday night be- came rather diminished again. Hearing dis- tance to-day of the right side two feet and a quarter, of the left side one foot eight inches. Noises rather lessened. Having at last suc- ceeded in passing a small catheter along the nostril of the right side, the instrument was introduced into the Eustachian tube, and the air-douche applied for the first time to the right ear. The air did not at first enter, but did so afterwards, and that in a pretty conti- nuous stream. Friday, January 4th.—Since last visit, has been affected with a cold and sore throat. Hearing distance on the left side two feet one inch, on the right side two feet. Attempted to pass the catheter on the right-side, but could not get it along the nasal passage. Having introduced the catheter into the left Eustachian tube, the air-douche was applied and found to enter pretty continuously, where- upon the vapour of acetic ether was allowed to enter the tympanum very slowly for the space of five or ten minutes. After this the hearing distance of the left side was found risen to two feet eight inches. Thursday, January 10th.—Left ear, three feet; right ear, two feet one inch and a half. The air-douche was applied to the right ear and entered with some gurgling but not very continuously. Ethereal vapours were then allowed slowly to enter for about a quarter of an hour. After this day’s treatment the hear- ing distance of the right ear was two feet five inches and a half. Saturday, 12th.—At this visit the hearing distance of the ears, especially of the left, was found considerably less than at the preceding, and although after the treatment the hearing distance rose to be nearly as great as before, the treatment was not persevered in further. Continuation of Case IV. I had not seen or heard anything of Master C. D. from the 18th of August, 1838, until Saturday, the 30th of March, 1839, when he was brought to me with his hearing in the following state:—Right ear, eight inches; left ear, four inches. Has had in the course of the winter several very severe attacks of ear-ache ; but the hearing, it appears, only became so dull as it is now, two or three weeks ago, when he was seized with a nasal catarrh. Auditory passages in a healthier-like state than before. Exploration by the air-douche showed the Eustachian tubes to be pervious, and the tym- panic cavities free of any accumulation of mucus. No great improvement in hearing imme- diately after the air-douche. Monday, 1st April.— Hearing distance of the right side, nine inches; of the left side, six inches. Air-douche applied to the right ear. The air entered freely, as on Saturday, but with more gurgling at first. Vapours from a few drops of acetic ether were also injected into the right tympanum for five or ten minutes. Tuesday, 2nd.—Hearing distance of both sides, about eight or nine inches.