CONGELATION. 816 cessity of continuing their march, or were dragged along by their comrades or friends till they either fell down quite dead, or were carried otf in convulsions like those of epi- lepsy1. As these accidents occurred while the cold continued with unmitigated severity, it is obvious they could not be caused, as in the case quoted above, by an elevated tempe- rature. In all probability, the re-action pro- ceeded from the violent muscular exertion, so far beyond their enfeebled powers, which these unfortunate men were compelled to make, to avoid falling into the hands of an exasperated enemy. II. LOCAL EFFECTS OF COLD. Passing over, in the meantime, the treat- ment of persons labouring under general symp- toms of congelation, we go on to remark, that while the whole system suffers from cold, par- ticular parts are more especially liable to its attacks, and that they may even sustain severe injury, or have their vitality quite destroyed, while the general system is little, if at all, implicated in the affection. The parts of the body which most frequently suffer from the local action of cold, are the fingers and toes, and more especially the tips of them, the hands and feet, or larger portions of the extremities of the limbs. The nose, the ears, the prominence of the cheeks, and the genitals are also frequently affected ; and in all these parts it is the skin and more superficial tissues which suffer most severely. With re- spect to the extremities of the limbs, as they are the parts most remote from the centre of the circulation, it may be presumed, that in them the animal heat is developed with least energy, and that to this circumstance their peculiar liability to frost-bite is to be ascribed. The other parts mentioned above,being nearer to the heart, do not suffer on account of the blood not being propelled with sufficient force into their vessels, but chiefly from their pro- minent, and, as it were, peninsulated situation ; and the same principle, it is to be remarked, applies in conjunction with that mentioned above to explain the rapid refrigeration of the limbs. It must be obvious that a projecting part is peculiarly exposed to the action of cold, because it is surrounded on all sides either with the external air or with substances which carry off more or less of its proper heat; and, besides, it is almost entirely dependent on its own resources for its supplies of animal heat, receiving very little by diffusion from neigh- bouring parts on account of its limited contact with them. In describing the local effects of cold, we shall divide them into primary and secondary. We shall begin with the most severe cases, in which the cold has been intense, and applied for a sufficient length of time to bring the ex- posed parts fully under its influence. We 1 r.arrcy, Begin, in Dictionnairc dc Medccinc, tom. v. p. 40(i. shall then advert to cases of a milder kind, or which, from the peculiar mode in which the cold has been applied, are distinguished by certain peculiarities of character. Primary stage of Congelation, or stage of Torpor. The description of the primary local effects of cold has been to a certain extent necessa- rily anticipated in describing its general effects upon the body. It has been already men- tioned, that when any part of the body is ex- posed to a severe and continued cold, the sen- sation of coldness at first produced gives place to numbness, and that the numbness at length passes into total insensibility ; that at the same time the part feels stiff, and unable to move with its wonted freedom, and that the stiffness gradually increases to complete inca- pability of motion. These effects of cold are chiefly of a physiological kind, depending upon the powers of life in the part gradually dimi- nishing, and ultimately being totally suspended. They are, however, accompanied by other phenomena which are chiefly or entirely phy- sical. The temperature of the part gradually approaches to that, of the surrounding medium. This depends at once upon ihe lowness of the external temperature and the feeble state of the vital processes productive of animal heat; the quantity of heat produced in a given time being less than that subducted according to the laws which regulate the diffusion of calo- ric. When at length the vital processes in the part are suspended, the laws of physical nature are enforced without further opposition. A state of complete congelation ensues, the solids become rigid, the blood freezes in the blood- vessels, and all the other humours are in like manner congealed within their vessels or cells. The part no longer exhibits any signs of life. It is neither flexible by any internal power, nor, without injury to its structure, by exter- nal force. If a cut be made into its substance, no blood follows, and no pain is produced. In this state it has been aptly described as re- sembling more a fragment of a marble statue, than a portion of a living body. As parts in a state of complete congelation exhibit no signs of life, a question naturally arises, whether they ought to be regarded as actually dead, or merely in a state of sus- pended animation, and still capable of having their vitality restored. With respect to some cold-blooded animals, it is well known that not only parts of them, but their whole bodies may be completely frozen, and, notwithstanding, that on being thawed to their ordinary tem- perature, they are found to have all their faculties entire, and appear to have suffered no inconvenience from the congelation. The common leech is an animal of this kind. When leeches are kept during the winter in a tum- bler of water, it sometimes happens that the water is frozen into a solid mass, with the leeches in the middle of it, and yet, on melt-