CANCER, PATHOLOGY OF. 635 here to repeat the observation made respect- ing the tenderness of these growths under pressure—pain rarely exists in the incipient stages. The time of its first appearance is not regulated by any fixed rule, nor is it by any means exceedingly uncommon, embracing in this proposition all species of cancer and all organs and parts internal as well as external, for the disease to originate, advance, and terminate by the death of the patient without giving rise to appreciable pain. This is an important point, for we have known the car- cinomatous nature of tumours resolutely con- tested on the score of their being unattended with local suffering—tumours of which the ulterior progress placed their cancerous nature beyond all doubt. In other cases pain ap- pears to exist from the earliest period of the disease ; a third class of subjects tortured with it in the outset of the complaint are released therefrom towards the close. The character of the pain in external can- cer, more especially in scirrhus of the breast, which has commonly served as a type for all general descriptions of the disease, is usually lancinating. It is compared by the sufferer to the prodding of knives, incision with lan- cets, &c.' But like the existence of pain, the constancy of this particular character has been much exaggerated ; in a multitude of instances, even in the mamma, the pain never assumes this form ; in others it does so only temporarily, and in certain organs lancinating pain has rarely, if ever, been observed. Besides, growths of innocent nature are some- times accompanied in the most distinct and well defined manner with suffering of this kind. How common is it nevertheless to hear the “ benignant ” or “ malignant ” charac- ter of a tumour confidently predicated from the absence or presence of this most equi- vocal sign. In some instances the pain is of a burning kind, and this may alternate with the former description ; in others a dull aching sensation is all that is experienced; some patients complain of distressing pruritus ; a feeling of wreight and coldness in the part con- stitutes the sole local discomfort of others. Of whatever kind the local suffering is, it is rarely continuous. It is said to be most severely felt at night, wherein it shares a property of almost every description of pain. Jager affirms that it is increased by dampness of the weather, and by an electric state of the atmosphere. The species of cancer modifies its constancy and severity: colloid is pro- ductive of comparatively little suffering ; en- cephaloid probably of less than scirrhus. Mr. Travers conceives the pain to be pro- duced by “ inflammatory action ” and “ ul- ceration Begin that the commencement of softening and the invasion of pain are coeval : the general truth of both propositions (which possibly mean the same thing) may be ques- 1 Eclairs tie. doulcur was the forcible expression once used by a patient in describing her feelings to Du- pnytren ; a northern Professor likens these rapid pangs to “ gleams of the Aurora Borealis.” tioned in respect of external carcinoma ; and they are decidedly erroneous if applied to that of internal organs. It may be affirmed that the intensity and constancy of the pain usually give a fair measure of the degree of rapidity with which the disease advances ; M. Recamier, however, states that he has known extremely painful cancer last 18 years, while in other cases the affection, though unattended with notable suffering, terminated fatally in a very few months ; in the former instances there was no fever, in the latter occasional febrile paroxysms. Hcemorrkage, which does not ordinarily oc- cur before ulceration has set in, is sometimes one of the earliest effects of the disease. Thus the discharge of a few drops of blood from the nipple in scirrhus of the breast, a tolerably frequent occurrence, has in some rare instances been the first morbid phe- nomenon observed. Profuse menorrhagia in not a few cases precedes all other symptoms of uterine cancer ; and in a case of pharyngeal carcinoma which we observed some years past, the patient persisted in affirming that severe haemorrhage from the throat was the first circumstance that drew his attention to the part. In a similar manner haemoptysis is frequently the first occurrence announcing tuberculous disorganization of the lungs. But we would not be understood to mean that effusion of blood is really the very first ab- normal effect of the heterologous formation ; others have probably led the way, but from their trivial character escaped the attention of individuals who are not in the habit of care- fully watching the variations of their health : admitting this to be the fact, the practical value of haemorrhage as a symptom is by no means lessened. Derangements of function form an impor- tant item in the symptomatology of car- cinoma, and of course vary with the organ in which, or in the immediate vicinity of which, the morbid matter is developed. They may be included under the heads of irritative and mechanical. As illustrations of the former we may adduce the vaginal discharge pro- duced by non-ulcerated scirrhus of the uterus; the occurrence of hydrothorax and pleuritis in subjects affected with mammary cancer. In exemplification of the latter may be men- tioned the occurrence of amaurosis from pressure on the optic nerve ; the interruption to vision occasioned by tumours driving the eye from its normal site ; obstinate constipa- tion from pressure of enlarged pelvic glands ; derangement of local circulation and serous accumulation either in the shut cavities or in the cellular membrane, produced by partial closure of adjacent circulating tubes, arterial, venous, or lymphatic. Such are the more prominent symptoms of growths which have not undergone ulceration. This process is preceded by changes in their own anatomical state, in their degree of con- nexion with surrounding parts, and in the appearance of the investing skin. These