60 ADHESIVE PLASTER. Blood, Inflammation, and Gun-shot Wounds. Thom- son's Lectures on Inflammation, exhibiting a view of the General Doctrines, Pathological and Practical, of Medical Surgery. London, 1813. John Bell, Dis- courses on the Nature and Treatment of Wounds. Serre, Traite de la Reunion Immediate etde son Influ- ence sur les Progres Recens de la Chirurgie. Paris, 1830. Bresclwt, Diet, de Med. art. Adherence. Bichat, Anatomie Generate. Bedard, Anat. Gen. Cruveilhier, Diet, de Med. et de Chir. Prat. art. Adhesions; and Es- sai sur l’Anat. Pathol, t.i. p. 144. Gendrin, Hist. Anat. des Inflammations. Paris, 1826. Andral's Pathologi- cal Anatomy. Latnnec, De l’Auscultation Mediate. Paris. Home on Ulcers. London, 1801. Brande, Philos. Transactions, 1818. Dubois, Pathologie Ge- nerate. Paris. Chelius, Traite de Chirurgie, traduit par Pigne. Paris. Reynell Coates, Amer. Cyc. of Pract. Med. and Surg. part ii. Philadelphia. Cop- land., Diet, of Med. part i. London. Renauldin, art. Adherenees. Diet, de Sciences Medicates. Mechel, Anat. Gen. et Pathol, t. iii. Craigie, Gen. and Pathol. Anat. passim. Roche et Sanson, Nouveaux Elemens de Physiologie. Paris. ( Wm. B. Costello.) ADHESIVE PLASTER ; emplastrum ad- luEsivwm, Lat. ; tpnXarrrpoe, Gr. ; emplatre agglutinatif, Fr. ; Pflaster, Ger. ; a solid and tenacious compound, thinly spread on linen, paper, or leather, adhering to the skin at the ordinary temperature of the body. Plasters in general are composed of unctuous substances, united with wax, resins, powders, metallic oxides, &c., and are prepared by heat. Ad- hesive plaster is employed in surgery, to keep the edges of wounds, resulting from operations or injuries, in contact, until they become adherent; to make compression, with a view to accelerate cicatrization in old and indolent ulcers ; to contain blisters, issues, sinapisms, dressings, &c.; to protect exposed surfaces from friction, stripping, &c. ; to pre- vent the air from penetrating in wounds of the splanchnic cavities and articulations ; and in the opening of certain abscesses, by suc- cessive puncture. (See Abscess.) The ad- hesive plasters in most common use are, the diachylon, the court plaster, and the plaster prepared by the dissolution of gum ammo- niac in vinegar, spread on cloth. This last is often found useful, where the skin is moist, as it requires moisture to make it stick. The court plaster, which is made of a solution of isinglass, thinly spread on moderately tine muslin or silk, repeatedly rubbed with a little tincture of benzoin, requires also to be mois- tened a little when applied ; but it soon dries, and curls up at the edges, and can only be employed on small surfaces. When the adhesive plaster is made in large quantities a machine is used for the purpose ; it consists of a table with two uprights, which are moveable, and furnished with points ; be- tween these a metallic plate is fixed, under which the cloth is drawn ; the under edge of the plate spreads the melted plaster evenly, while the cloth is drawn in lengths. Unbleached calico is best adapted for mak- ing good adhesive plaster, on account of its downy surface, affording firmer union with the glutinous substance. Calendered cloth is not adapted for the purpose, as the plaster cracks and drops off from the already glazed surface. The cloth should be very even in texture, neither too fine nor too coarse. The emplastic substance should be so compounded as to soften at a gentle heat; and with this view, regard should be had to the season in which it is to be used, w'hether winter or summer, and the ingredients modified accord- ingly. For use, adhesive plaster is cut into bands or straps, of various lengths and breadths, in the length of the cloth. When used for closing flaps upon the stump, after ampu- tation, some surgeons cut their straps not quite straight, but slantingly, so that the middle of the strap is somewhat narrower than either of the ends. This mode of cut- ting the slips has two advantages; the wider ends give firmer hold, while the narrow centre, corresponding to the line on which the flaps are united, covers the wound less, and allows spaces for the escape of sanguineous or sero- purulent fluid exuding from its lips, which, if retained, would give rise to pain, tension, inflammation, and the formation of an abscess. The mode of applying the straps is very simple : the lips of the wound having been brought into contact, and adjusted, and so maintained, when necessary, by an assistant, the surgeon takes between the index finger and thumb of each hand, the ends of the ad- hesive strap, and after heating it a little before the fire, or by passing its outside surface, from end to end, over a moderately heated Italian iron, he applies one of the ends to the least moveable ot the lips of the wound, and assists its agglutination by pressing it with his fingers ; the assistant then holds it firmly to prevent its slipping off, while the surgeon, having both his hands now free, re-adjusts the lips of the wound, and applies the other end of the strap down the skin of the opposite flap. He then applies, in succession, as many slips as may be required. The manner of disposing of the straps varies according to the direction of the wound ; when straight, they are applied perpendicularly to its direction; this rule should be adhered to in the application of every single strap, so that if the surgeon has to deal with a semicircular wound, the straps take the direction of radii from a common centre, crossing from the convex to the con- cave side of the wound. Some surgeons place the first strap over the middle of the wound, and in many cases it is the most convenient mode, but it is often a matter of indifference whether it be placed at the middle or the extremities ; in large flaps, the middle strap should always be applied first; in such cases, the adhesive plaster will be often insufficient to hold the lips of the wound in contact, and a point of suture may be required for this purpose ; or it may be necessary to support the adjacent parts by graduated compresses of various forms, skilfully applied and main- tained. Ancient surgeons had an idea, that the adhesive plaster was applicable only for the reunion of wounds of the skin, and sub- jacent cellular tissue, and consequently em- ployed sutures much more frequently than