889 ANUS. | secure a certain degree of comfort to the patient. SPASM OF THE ANUS. “ It has often occurred to me to remark, and has been observed by others,” says Copeland, “ that cases, which are called strictures of the urethra, and of the oesophagus, admit of more easy, more certain, and quicker relief, by the use of the bougie, than they could possibly do if the structure of the membrane of those canals were disturbed, as in cases of real and permanent stricture. Such diseases have usu- ally been called spasmodic stricture. If the other canals of the body are affected, and their functions deranged by the mere spasm of their muscular fibres, it seems yet more probable that the rectum, surrounded at its extremity by a very powerful muscle, should be liable to a similar affection Spasm of the anus, it seems probable, is mostly the consequence of some preceding morbid irritation, situated either in the gut I itself, or in some of the organs with which it is interested ; and it consequently ceases when that irritation has been removed. Such is the case when the urinary or genital organs are excited; for though the sphincters (especially the external one) always participate more or less in the disturbance of those organs, their spasmodic action ceases when the others have regained their quiescence. There appears, however, to be produced, sometimes by an insidious and long-continued irritation in the intestine, or by the degrading broodings of a licentious mind, a spasmodic con- dition of the extremity of the rectum, which becomes a cause of its own continuance, by reason of the inflammation which has been set up in the parts, and which their state of activity will not allow to subside. In this condition, when by removing the cause alone we do not remove the effect, the affection merits a place in a dissertation on the diseases of the anus. This affection, at its commencement, is announced by a deep-seated uneasy grasping sensation, and a feeling as though the anus were drawn upwards. Great restlessness pre- vails. and the patient either hurries about the room rubbing the part forcibly with his finger, or sits with it pressed on the edge of his chair. He flies to the water-closet, and makes in- effectual attempts to empty his bowels, and then he begins to alternate the former means again, until the spasm gives way, and a stool, generally of a costive character, is ob- tained. In a short time it acquires a character of periodicity—a character which, in its greatest state of aggravation, it never entirely loses— and it generally makes its attack at night, awakening the patient from his sleep, or pre- venting sleep altogether in the early part of the night. When this periodicity is esta- blished, there comes on a smarting pain, as 1 Copeland's Observations, p. 45, ed. 3. though the anus had been excoriated by ex- cessive purgation, and this pain becomes more and more of a burning character, until it is intolerable. On examining the parts, the sphincter is found powerfully contracted, so much so, that it is only with much difficulty and torment that a small bougie can be made to penetrate. When, by appropriate agents, the spasm is so far overcome as to permit the introduction of the little finger, great heat is found to pre- vail in the interior, and the internal sphincter as well as the external is felt tightly grasping the finger. The inflammatory congestion of a part pos- sessing such strong and numerous sympathies, explains at once the fearful symptoms which attend it. The language of the patient ap- pears to be exaggerated, and when he com- pares the sensation to that produced by the lodgement of a red-hot iron in the gut, or to the tearing it out with fish-hooks, it may seem strange that such should be the case, more after than at the time of the expulsion of the faeces. But we must remember, that it is only to the most urgent calls of nature that he at- tends, and that the solid faeces in their de- scent, a descent accomplished by violent ab- dominal contraction, stun or blunt the energy of the nerves, and so effect their exit with comparatively little pain. When, however, they are expelled, re-action takes place, the nerves re-acquire their sensibility, which is for a time exalted proportionally to its pre- vious depression, and, until this state sub- sides, the paroxysm endures. The faeces are not discharged regularly ; they are sometimes in flattened pieces, like tamarind stones, at others they are in strips like casement-lead issuing from a mill; and, occasionally there bursts out suddenly a mass of faeces, fluid, and mucus. The difficulty and distress attending this operation is shortly fol- lowed by intense suffering, “ Perhaps there is no disease that the human frame is subject to which is more painful: the involuntary contrac - tions of the sphincter are compared to the pains of labour ; they frequently come on im- mediately, but more usually about an hour or more after each evacuation, and sometimes continue till the succeeding one. In some instances, the complaint goes on to produce suppuration and consequent fistula. Some- times the irritation is propagated to the neck of the bladder, and produces a retention of, or impediment to, the urine. I have seen it in two cases extend up the canal, and give rise to attacks of violent colic, and an in- creased secretion from the whole inner mem- brane of the gut, so that an evacuation of mucous cylinders, of the size of the part of the canal where they are formed, or of detached pieces of mucus, are seen mixed with the faeces The act of coughing produces the greatest distress, and the expulsion of wind immediately brings on a paroxysm almost as 1 Copeland, Op. cit. p. 51. Z 2