117 AMPUTATION. limb, or a portion of a limb. This is the pro- per surgical meaning of the term, in its usual, though somewhat restricted acceptation, and the only one to be attached to it in this article. We say restricted, because the term has other significations. Thus, resection, or the cutting off the ends of bones; the removal of the lower jaw, in whole or in part; the ex- cision and extirpation of soft parts, such as the tonsils, the testicle, the uterus, and still more appropriately, the penis, are operations often termed amputations. The word amputation is also sometimes used as a generic term, including all the above- named significations ; and then it is synony- mous with ablation and apkaresis (see these words) which, in this sense, are more suitable, and more frequently employed. Amputation is a subject of such great ex- tent and importance, that it is highly desirable in attempting to treat it fully, to arrange the matter belonging to it,—the various and mul- titudinous topics it embraces, in an order which will prevent omissions, and serve to impress it well on the understanding. General remarks on the limbs.—The subject before us involves topics of the highest im- portance. Such is the nature and structure of the limbs, their importance to life, and the enjoyment of life, that the responsibi- lity of the surgeon who removes or curtails them, can hardly be overrated. We deem it, therefore, right to make some brief reference here to their anatomical conformation, their uses, and their vital importance. Organs of more or less complex and varied motion, of general and often of special sensation, the limbs, considered with regard to the wide and philosophical meaning of anatomical structure, are evidently all modelled upon the same type, in all animals. Modified to suit the habits and destiny of the being to which they belong, they seem to become more and more important comparatively with the rest of the body, as well as in comparison with the same parts in other animals, in proportion to the importance of that being in the animal scale. From the nature of their functions it follows that they must be composed of substantially different parts, arranged so that the combina- tion shall assume a form varying according to the purpose it has to answer, but always more or less elongated. The muscles are evidently the most im- portant and characteristic of these constitu- ents. The muscular tissue may be considered as the essential as well as the most abundant element of the limbs, as of every other organ of motion : these muscles being under the direct and immediate influence of the nerves which, as it were, confer upon them, in a great degree, their motile faculty ; the nervous tissue is the element, at least second to, if not equal in importance with the muscular. In the third place, the limbs have their framework, or skeleton, properly so called, which being otherwise almost inflexible, is subdivided, in general, transversely, into pieces made to move upon each other, and upon the trunk, by joints. This, their passive or me- chanical part, seems to be their least essential constituent,—a mere sub-stratum ; for we find it absent in organs destined almost exclusively to the purposes of motion, such as the tongue of most animals, and the proboscis of the ele- phant. It is certainly subordinate to the other parts, and formed of an element which, although it may be considered the universal material of organization, is always subordinate or passive also—the cellular tissue. Finally, we see entering into the composition of the limbs, for the purpose of sustaining their gene- ral organization, arteries, veins, and lympha- tics, which convey to and fro the materials of their nutrition. Muscles, nerves, bones, ves- sels,—these, then, united by cellular tissue, enwrapped by a fibrous sheath with more or less numerous partitions, and covered by the skin, are the parts with which the surgeon has to deal in amputation. In surveying the animal kingdom, as we ascend the scale, we find the limbs and their constituent parts, or immediate elements, be- coming more and more complex and import- ant, and each part apportioned in quantity and development to the uses for w'hich it is designed : where strength is required, we find the passive ; where agility, the more active elements predominating ; and where a special sensation resides, we see an appropriate modi- fication of parts to admit of that also. In this survey we also find the limbs be- coming less and less mere appendages, less and less independent of the body, or more and more essential or integral parts of it, as we examine them from an animal of less to an animal of greater importance ; and it will be found that, in the same animal, the relative degree of importance, and therefore the dan- ger and detriment of the removal of any par- ticular limb, as compared with the others, may be appreciated by a reference to its ana- tomical composition, to the importance and relative quantity of its anatomical elements. The increasing vital relation between the trunk and the limbs, and the proportionately increasing severity of the loss or removal of the latter, appears to be an important law which holds good generally, from the animal possessing the power to reproduce these ap- pendages, to that in which the amputation of one of them is so severe as to threaten life. Exceptions will of course be found where modifications are required for particular cases ; where an animal may have two or more of its limbs extraordinarily developed or extraordi- narily diminished to suit its particular habits and destiny. In the case of greater develop- ment, the connexion of such limbs with the trunk, and the severity of their removal would be greater than in that of the general rule ; and in the opposite case, less. With strict regard to the philosophy of anatomy, perhaps the limbs may be considered, even in all animals, as the elements of the trunk prolonged. But if this view be taken