ENCEPHALOCELE. 120 spots never increased in size, the patient eventually died from extensive melanotic de- position in various parts of the body. Treatment of encanthis by operation.—The operative proceedings required for the re- moval of a small tumour, attached either to the semilunar rfiembrane or the lachrymal caruncle, are very simple. If the enlarge- ment have a broad base, it would be advisa- ble to raise it with a hooked forceps, and care- fully dissect it from the subjacent parts by means of a fine scalpel, taking especial care not to injure the puncta. If, on the con- trary, the tumour be attached by means of a somewhat slender pedicle, then it would be better to raise it with the forceps, and snip it away with the curved scissors. In all in- stances where the lachrymal caruncle is af- fected with simple hypertrophy, a part of it only should be removed, and this should be done by the agency of the curved scissors, and the same surgical proceeding is applica- ble to that thickened and prolonged condi- tion of the valvula semilunaris, which some- times follows purulent and other forms of conjunctival inflammation. In this instance it will bo borne in mind, that the loose float- ing margin only of the membrane should be excised ; this being not only all that it is requisite to remove, but a proceeding less likely to be followed by stillicidium lachry- marum. After the excision of a portion of the lachrymal caruncle and semilunar mem- brane for the relief of the preceding form of disease, it is remarked, that the part scarcely ever becomes materially enlarged. When the lachrymal caruncle becomes the seat of simple fungous enlargement, and increases notwithstanding treatment, it should be en- tirely removed, and also whenever it is af- fected with scirrhus. In these cases it is most necessary to extirpate the part not only promptly but completely. To facilitate its removal and render its thorough removal more certain, it is proper to raise the part very much, to draw it away from the eye-ball, by means of a hook similar to a small tenacu- lum, or to pass a ligature through it for the same purpose, and so to regulate the incisions, (which should be made with a small scalpel) as to remove not only the caruncle but also the parts immediately around it. This is a matter of cautious and delicate dissection, in performing which, it is necessary not only to cut sufficiently away from the tumour to re- move it completely together with a proper quantity of the adjacent textures, but also to avoid injuring either the puncta or the globe. By drawing the tumour away from the eye- ball, as explained, before proceeding to make the incision with the scalpel, it is removed with greater exactitude, facility, and safety. During the excision of the much enlarged caruncle, the free use of cold water is re- quired for the purpose of lessening haemor- rhage, and furnishing the surgeon with a clear view of the parts upon which he is operating. After the operation, the wound may be freely bathed with warm water, and should be permitted to heal without the use of harsh stimulating applications. Atrophy of the lachrymal caruncle. In advanced life, the caruncle becomes diminished in size ; in some instances to an extent which, in conjunction with the laxity of surrounding parts, &c. produces a trouble- some degree of epiphora. The use of mild stimulants, such as the vinum opii, a weak solution of the nitrate of silver or sulphate of zinc, generally affords relief. Atrophy of the lachrymal caruncle will sometimes take place after the parts have been affected with inflam- mation, and also after its partial excision, on account of its undue enlargement. In these cases, the epiphora, consequent on the atro- phy, cannot be remedied. Bibliography : Purmannus, Chirurgia Curiosa, p. 59. London, 1706. Maitre-Jan, Traite des Mala- dies de l'CEil, p. 471. Paris, 1707. Heister, Institu- tiones Chirurgicae, p. 2, sect. 2, cap. 48. Amsterdam, 1739. Edmonston, A Treatise on the Varieties and Consequences of Ophthalmia, p. 167. Edinburgh, 1806. Scarpa, (Leveille’s translation,) Traite Pra- tique des Maladies des Yeux, tom. i. p. 366. Paris, 1807. Wenzel, Manuel de TOculiste. Paris, 1808. Sabatier, De la Medecinc Operatoire. Paris, 1810. Benedict, De Morbis Oculi Humani Inflammatoriis, (§ 150). Leipsic, 1811. Beer, Lelire von den Au- genkr. b. 11, p. 187. Wien. 1817. Travers, A Synop- sis of the Diseases of the Eye. London, 1824. Guthrie, Lectures on the Operative Surgery of the Eye. Lon- don, 1830. Sanson, Dictionnaire de Medccine et de Chirurgie Pratiques, tom. 7. p. 186. Paris, 1831. Bognetta, Traite Complet des Maladies de l'CEil, p. 17k Paris, 1839. See further, article Ophthalmia. Cooper. Surgical Dictionary, art. Encanthis. London, 1839. ( Richard Middlemore.) ENCEPHALOCELE : deriv. iyKt<j>a\ov, brain ; and kijXjj, tumour. Syn. hernia cerebri, fungus cerebri, Lat.; encephalocele, hernie du cerveau, podencephalie, notenccphalie, Fr.; Hirn- bruch, Ger.—A tumour formed by a portion of brain protruding between two or more bones of the cranium, or through an aperture in one bone, the result of defective ossification. Some authors limit the term encephalocele to protrusions of the cerebrum, designating those of the cerebellum parencephalocele : but this is a useless distinction, as in many cases it would be impossible to determine before death whether the tumour were formed by cerebrum or cerebellum ; and in others, portions of both are protruded together. When the sac con- tains an appreciable quantity of fluid, the dis- ease is termed hydrencephaloeele. Encephalocele is divided into accidental, and congenital or spontaneous : the former resulting from the removal of some part of the cranium by disease, injury, or surgical operation ; while the proximate cause of the latter is defective ossification of one or more of the cranial bones. The accidental form is referred to Head, Injuries of—Necrosis— Trephine, with which subjects it is naturally associated ; and in this article we propose fo