GANGRENE, HOSPITAL. 403 to a large proportion, if not to the whole, of the wounded patients, and by the most de- structive and fatal consequences. In what way is the extension of the disease from patient to patient effected? is it by direct communication of a palpable morbid matter from the open surface in one individual to the part of the body of another individual in which the disease subsequently manifests itself? i. e. is it by inoculation? or is it by an impalpable effluvium emitted from the body of the affected person into the atmo- sphere, and through the atmosphere operating on the body of the person who is to become affected, either by immediate contact with the open surface, or by being introduced into the general system, through the respiratory organs, or otherwise ? Notwithstanding some contradictory nega- tive experiments, there seems no room for doubt that by the inoculation of matter taken from a surface affected with hospital gan- grene, the specific disease can be reproduced in a healthy person. It appears, that when the morbific matter from a sore of this kind has been inserted under the cuticle, &c., the appearances exhibited in the early stages bear a strong resemblance to those of vaccine ino- culation, except that the primary inflammation in gangrenous phagedaena commences at the end of the second, or early on the third day, and the inflammation is at its height about the sixth. The subsequent course of the two affections, however, is very different; at the time when, in the one case, the vaccine scab begins to form, in the other phagedaenic ulce- ration commences. (Blachadder.) That hospital gangrene has often been communicated from patient to patient through the medium of sponges, bandages, &c., seems to rest on unquestionable evidence. It is obvious that when so propagated, there is no limit to the distance to which it may be con- veyed. Mr. Blackadder goes so far as to say, that according to his observations, ninety- nine in the hundred cases of gangrenous phagedaena were evidently produced by a di- rect application of the morbific matter to the wounds or sores, through the medium of sponges, tow, water-dressings, instruments, &c.; while other persons who were, in every other respect, equally exposed to its opera- tion, never caught the disease. But independently of direct inoculation, hospital gangrene seems capable of being propagated from person to person through the medium of the atmosphere. It may not always be easy, in individual instances, to determine whether the propagation has been effected in the one or in the other of these two modes, but in the following instance the atmospheric mode of propagation seems to be very plainly indicated. Professor Brugmans mentions, that at Leyden, in the end of the summer of 1798, hospital gangrene prevailed in the French military hospitals, in one of the low wards, whilst the patients whose wounds were slighter, being placed above this ward. in a well-aired garret, were found to escape the disease. The surgeon judged it necessary to make an opening in the floor of the garret, in order to afford an outlet to the air of the infected ward by the roof. Thirty hours afterwards, three patients who lay next to the opening, were attacked by the disease, which soon spread through the whole ward. It may here be noticed, that by an analysis of the air in wards affected with hospital gan- grene, Professor Brugmans satisfied himself that there exists in it a peculiar animal matter, highly disposed to putrefaction ; that the oxy- gen gas is considerably diminished, and the azote and carbonic acid gas augmented ; and that by the tests of nitrate of silver, acetate of lead, and chlorine, the presence of sulphu- retted hydrogen gas is detected. Much, how- ever, remains to be done in the way of eudio- metrical investigation before any great degree of importance can be attached to single results of this description. If hospital gangrene admits of being pro- pagated from person to person through the medium of the atmosphere, then in all pro- bability it will be capable of being transmitted in like manner through the agency offomites : that is to say, the body-clothes, bed-clothes, and bandages of patients thus affected, may imbibe so much of the contagious principle as, when brought into more or less close vici- nity with other patients, to communicate the disease to them without any room for suspect- ing actual inoculation ; just as when a person catches small-pox or typhus fever from sleep- ing between sheets in which a patient affected with one or other of these diseases, had been previously lying. Prevention.—As to the means of preventing the occurrence of hospital gangrene, and of exterminating this malady when it has made its appeai’ance, it is obvious, that in so far as it is to be considered as capable of spreading from person to person, these means must be the same as are applicable to every other spe- cies of infectious disease. They consist in, first, and principally, a free ventilation of air; second- ly, a strict and rigid attention to cleanliness, which must extend to the body-clothes, bed- clothes, and apartments of the infected ; and thirdly, the separation, where this is possible, of those affected with the disease from those who are, or who appear to be, uninfected. Not only, as has been justly remarked, should the infected be separated from the sound, but the more the infected can be separated from one another, the greater must be the chance of ex- terminating the contagion. The appropria- tion of particular wards to patients labouring under this disease, however advantageous to the uninfected, is too apt, we fear, to increase the malignity and fatality of the disease ; and it unfortunately happens that in the circum- stances in which hospital gangrene makes its appearance, any thing like an efficient separa- tion is, in general, altogether, or in a great measure impossible, (see Delpech, p. 113.) Fourthly, as to any advantage to be derived D d ‘2