ABSCESS. 42 dyspnoea, the doughy condition of the integu- ments, the hectic fever, nightly sweats, and other symptoms indicative of internal irrita- tion will not be sufficient, because they may be characteristic of very different affections. Another mode of opening is that by caustic ; the necessity for employing it arises from particular conditions connected with the origin, the situation, or the state of the purulent collection. In the case of an abscess, origin- ating in an organ contained in the splanchnic cavities, and pointing externally, if the integu- ment be not sufficiently inflamed to satisfy us that adhesion has been firmly established between it and the serous membrane, the opening should not be attempted by any other mode. These observations apply more espe- cially to certain abscesses of the liver and gall bladder. When the caustic is applied, and the adhesions are not sufficiently organ- ized, the inflammation it excites hastens and completes the process of their formation, so that before it bursts forth, there is no longer any thing to be apprehended from the extra- vasation of the matter into the cavity. (See Abdomen.) In certain glandular inflammations of the groin and axilla, when the whole tumour is completely softened, and the skin seems to have lost the support of the subjacent cellular tissue to a great extent, it is often advisable to open the collection by means of caustic ; this method is adopted in the case of venereal bubo at the Hopital des Veneriene in Paris. In the chronic abscess of limited extent, the practice is also advantageous. The caustic generally employed is the potassa fusa ap- plied in small quantities over the abscess, in the same manner and with the same precau- tion to prevent its spreading, as in the case of the insertion of an issue. (See Caustics.) The time during which the caustic remains applied, and the quantity of the caustic must be according to the extent of opening desired, and the expedition with which it is deemed advisable to empty the collection. In the case of the small chronic abscesses, accom- panied by feeble marks of inflammation, it will be proper to wait for the matter till the eschar drops off of itself; in the meanwhile, it determines a salutary irritation in the puru- lent sac, which is much more disposed to cicatrize as soon as it is emptied, than it would otherwise have been. The same mode of irritation is attended with similar good effect when excited in the skin, which has been so thinned by the progress of the abs- cess as to be almost entirely deprived of its nutrient vessels. In these cases when incision is had recourse to, the thin skin often pe- rishes, or refuses to cicatrize with the bottom of the tumour, and the surgeon is obliged to remove it, by painful resection, followed by tedious suppuration before the wound can be cicatrized, and when cicatrization takes place the scars are unsightly. (See Cicatrix.) Sometimes the persistence of the suppura- tion, and the impossibility of healing an abs- cess, depends on the irritation of a foreign body pent up in the suppurating cavity. It should be sought for and immediately extracted. In other cases, the wasting of the patient is so great, that surfaces, otherwise sufficiently dis- posed to unite, continue their suppurative action from mere absence of contact, or from the immobility of the parts with which they are connected. Instances are seen in the fistulous openings which are thus kept up in the popliteal and axillary regions, at the margin of the anus, &c.: the cure here is promoted by generous diet, good air, moderate exercise, &c. Suppuration is often sustained solely in consequence of a cachectic, or general bad state of the patient. In persons of lymphatic or scorbutic habits, or who have suffered from long continued mercurial action, the respira- tion of deleterious gases, &c., suppurative action is easily excited in a wound, and pro- longed without any appreciable cause. In these cases, the suppuration itself is of little importance, and the cure is best effected by such hygeienic and medical management as is best calculated to remedy the particular organic vitiation, on which the persistence of the suppuration depends. The whole organ- ism must be healthily modified, before we can excite it to the formation of those ad- hesions of which it seems to be incapable, and upon which the cure depends. But whether the opening of an abscess takes place spontaneously, or by one of the artificial modes above alluded to, the subse- quent treatment is very simple. True, it may be advisable to enlarge the spontaneous open- ing when too small, but the treatment in either case will be the same ; and not taking account of lesions of remote and important organs upon which an abscess may depend, the local treatment consists only of cleanliness, and the free exit of the matter. The duty of the surgeon now is to provide for the gradual evacuation of the matter, and the successive approximation of the walls of the cavity in which it had been formed ; the agglutination of the lips of the wound or orifice must therefore be prevented; this is done by the insertion of a small pledget of lint smeared with simple ointment: it however should not plug up the opening, but be loose enough to permit the gradual escape of the matter. If on the other hand, the sides of the orifice remain parted from each other, the dressings may be flat, and so arranged as to afford a certain degree of support, which may be gradually accommodated to the diminution of the cavity until it at last becomes so wholly com- pressive as to hasten the cicatrization in a re- markable manner. Such are the general rules which will be found applicable in the treatment of puru- lent collections; the particular rules to be observed in the management of local ab- scesses will be found under their respective heads. It will be now necessary to notice certain abscesses occurring in particular situations, for which no distinct place is set apart in this work. We stated at the outset that purulent effu- sions in the natural cavities did not come