ARTERIES, ANOMALIES OF. 390 with the facial artery. M. Maingault has en- deavoured to determine the exact point at which the lingual arises ; of thirty-six subjects examined by him, for this purpose, he found that the vessel was given off at the level of the os hyoides in twenty-one ; and from one to eight lines above it in fifteen subjects. Two ranine branches of the lingual artery have also been found, a circumstance which would render an accident more likely to occur in bleeding from the ranine veins in glossitis. CERVICAL REGION. The great vessels in the cervical region are subject to numerous deviations, many of which would materially interfere with the practice of certain operations in this part of the body. The latter only will be noticed in the following remarks. The common carotid artery usually divides into internal and exter- nal branches, near the superior edge of the thyroid cartilage, but the bifurcation may take place much higher up, near the base of the cranium. In other cases it divides as low down as the sixth cervical vertebra, and then two large vessels, of nearly equal size, are found ascending in the ordinary course of the common carotid artery. The thyroid arteries present numerous de- viations, both in origin and course. The supe- rior thyroid arteries are occasionally much enlarged, in consequence of the inferior thy- roidal vessels being absent; the artery, again, may arise, much lower down than it usually does, from the trunk of the primary carotid. Zagorsky relates an example of the former occurrence, where the superior thyroid on the right side was nearly as large as the external carotid. In a case which is recorded in the Memoirs of the Russian Academy of Sciences, the superior thyroid arose about an inch be- low the bifurcation of the carotids ; it was nearly twice its ordinary calibre, and as it ascended close upon the common carotid trunk, might easily have been included with the latter in a ligature. The branches distri- buted to the thyroid gland were very large and superficial, being merely covered by the skin and platysma myodes. This latter cir- cumstance, as M. Robert justly remarks, should render the surgeon cautious'in opening all abscesses situate in the upper and anterior region of the neck. The origin and course of the different branches of the inferior thyroid artery are extremely various. Burns describes the two inferior thyroid arteries as arising by a com- mon trunk from the subclavian or arch of the aorta, and ascending in front of the trachea to the thyroid gland. Manec has seen this common trunk given off by the left subclavian. In other cases the vessels, which are usually branches of the thyroid artery, arise sepa- rately from the subclavian artery, or innomi- nate- In a good example of this distribution, which is preserved in the museum of Guy’s Hospital, the left inferior thyroid was a branch of the innominata, and crossed obliquely over the front of the trachea to gain the left lobe of the gland. Besides the inferior thyroid artery there exists very frequently a vessel described by Neubauer under the name of thyroidea ima, and by Harrison under that of t. media. It usually arises from the arch be- tween the innominata and left carotid, and ascends straight on the trachea to the thyroid body. It may, however, be furnished by the innominata or primary carotid. In a case de- tailed by Burns, this anomalous branch was larger than a crow’s quill, and ascended be- tween the sterno-thyroid muscles to the lower border of the thyroid gland at the left side ; it was accidentally wounded during the opera- tion of cesophagatomy, and gave rise to a serious haemorrhage. It is scarcely necessary to point out the in- fluence which the deviations just described must necessarily exercise on all operations performed in this region of the neck. The anomalies of the great vessels which arise from the arch of the aorta are now fa- miliar to most anatomists. They amount, in the aggregate, to nearly forty different modes of origin, but we have only to consider those which may concern the surgeon in the prac- tice of his art. The right subclavian artery, instead of be- ing a branch of the innominata, may arise from any portion of the arch of the aorta, even as low down as the descending arch, an example of which the writer once met with in the dissecting room of Trinity College, Dub- lin. In such case the right subclavian may cross the front of the trachea obliquely to- wards the right side at any point between the sternum and lower border of the thyroid gland. Thus Burns relates a case, in which the vessel passed in front of the trachea im- mediately beneath the lower edge of the gland ; and Walter has recorded an unfortu- nate operation of tracheatomy performed on the daughter of a celebrated professor of sur- gery, where the child died under the hands of the surgeon, in all probability from a wound of the subclavian or other great vessel which pursued the anomalous course just described. In other cases, the right subclavian artery passes between the trachea and oesophagus, instead of crossing the former in front, or it may rest on the bodies of the vertebrae, being covered by the trachea and oesophagus. In either of the cases now mentioned, an altera- tion in the calibre of the vessel may act as an impediment to deglutition, or the artery may be wounded by a foreign body in the oesopha- gus. Mr. Kirby has related a very remarkable instance of the latter, in the Dublin Hospital Reports. A woman swallowed accidentally with her food a fish-bone. She was soon seized with symptoms of suffocation, &c. Trachea- tomy was performed, but the patient died of haemorrhage which seemed to proceed from the oesophagus. On examination after death it was found that the right subclavian artery, which passed from the arch towards the right side, between the oesophagus and ver-