FRACTURE. 299 no doubt of the ultimate consolidation. In the last case, supposing, as before, the possi- bility of restoring the natural length of the limb, the fragments will be separated by a considerable interval, in which it is most im- probable that any uniting medium, except a ligamentary one, will be deposited. The division of the callus with the saw, for the purpose of remedying fractures united with deformity, has also been proposed and prac- tised. In any case imperatively calling for an attempt of some kind to remove the deformity, I should much prefer M. A3sterlen’s method to this, by which an injury of the nature of a compound fracture is inflicted. But in all cases of this sort, the surgeon should be reluc- tant to perform any operation that subjects the patient to considerable risk for the re- moval of a mere inconvenience. There are cases, however, in which the saw is the only means of effecting the resection with sufficient precision, and this would scarcely appear to be a very dangerous ope- ration. If the limb be wasted, the incisions are both more readily and more safely per- formed j and it is probable that after the re- straint and suffering to which the first repara- tion has in a manner recently accustomed the sufferer, he will be able to undergo the effects of resection with but slight inconvenience. It does not by any means seem necessary to perform the complete division of the bone by the saw, but rather only to secure the direction of the fracture, which may be com- pleted by a wedge, or chisel and mallet ; and these will leave a more generally healthy surface for repair, and but moderate irregu- larities, which are rather favourable to ossi- fication under circumstances of artificial ex- tension. The following case1 will illustrate much that is useful concerning the subject in hand. The patient, Captain Charlton, aged about thirty- five years, relates the particulars of the pri- mary fracture : “ I was wounded on the 17th of August, 1835, by a musket-ball, which fractured the tibia of the right leg, whilst employed in capturing a stockade in the province of Assam in the East Indies. There being no medical attendant with the detachment I commanded, I proceeded, by water, to Bishnauth, the head-quarters of my regiment, upwards of two hundred miles from the scene of action. On my arrival there, the seventh day after the accident had occurred, the wound was dressed, and the limb shortly after put into a fracture-box. On the 4th of November, in consequence of the regiment being ordered on active service, 1 was left under a native Mahomedan doctor for about five weeks; after which time, the surgeon of the regiment again took charge of me, until the 1st of January, 1836 ; on which day I embarked on board a boat for Calcutta, at his recommen- 1 See a case of division of the tibia for the cure of deformity, occasioned by a gun-shot wound, by C. A. Key, in the 8th No. of the Guy's Hospital Reports. Fig. 303. The first drawing represents the appearance of the leg before the operation was performed. The crooked state of the tibia at the seat of fracture, and its obli- quity at the head, where the femur rested on it, are shown. The change of position which the fibula had undergone is also seen, as it was before the tibia was divided. The second drawing shows the state of the limb during the progress of union. The long splints being made to embrace the heel firmly by a tourniquet, a powerfid lever is made to act on the whole limb, by means of a second tourniquet applied to the upper end of the splint. By tightening occasionally the upper tourni- quet, the lower part of the leg was kept in a line with the upper part. dation, for further advice. My general health suffered very much on my way to the Pre- sidency, during which time I was without medical assistance altogether : and on my ar- rival there, on the 8th of February, I was so unwell, that amputation of the limb was re- commended as the only means of saving my life. I declined submitting to the operation ; and on the 12th of March embarked on board a ship for the Cape of Good Hope ; from whence I returned to Calcutta the latter end of January 1838; and in March following embarked for England.” “ When he arrived in England, he walked with difficulty, supporting himself with two sticks,and carrying the broken limb at a con- siderable distance from the other, in order to bring the leg into a more perpendicular line of bearing. The deformity of the limb was great, to the full extent represented in the drawing. It appeared, from the history of the accident and subsequent treatment, that a