679 CANCER. the knife, and finishes by dividing the in- testine transversely either with the bistoury or with curved scissors. When the cancer is deeply seated or extensively adherent, Lis- franc divides the posterior angle of the dis- sected ellipse with strong straight scissors, extending this division tolerably high along the rectum : the dissection is facilitated by an assistant drawing down the gut with hooks or strong forceps. The knife of the operator is guided by a finger in ano, and by the thumb placed on the external surface of the flap. One of the most important points to bear in mind is the position of the hollow organs in front of the gut. Their situation may be marked by the finger of an assistant in the vagina, or by a sound in the male urethra ; but these guides will be of little value unless the operator possess perfect anatomical knowledge. M. Costallat states that “ an autopsy which took place at the Venereal Hospital shows, that through the action of a cancer situated at the inferior part of the rectum, the cul-de-sac of the peri- tonaeum may be brought within sixteen lines (Fr.) of the anus; whereas in the normal state, it is double or even treble as far from the orifice of the bowel.” This is an anatomical fact of most serious importance.—The arteries should be tied when divided ; when this pre- caution has been. taken there is rarely any severe haemorrhage, or such as resists the ap- plication of lint steeped in cold water. A thick roll of shredded lint is introduced after the operation, and in order to prevent the tendency of the intestine to coarctation from becoming troublesome, the use of some con- trivance of the kind should be persisted in for a time—say, a few weeks at least. The wound commences to contract from the fif- teenth to the twentieth day,—the external and internal parts approximate, and eventually the visible loss of substance does not amount to more than an inch in width. The fibres of the levator ani, the aponeuroses and the end of the rectum form a sort of substitute for the sphincter : the patient, how'ever, has commonly no control over liquid faeces, though the indi- vidual operated upon by Faget could even retain flatus. Whatever may have been the success of Lisfranc, opinion is far from being strongly favourable to this operation, even in Paris : Amussat affirms that it “ rarely suc- ceeds.” It may be observed, however, that the indication for removing a portion of the rectum obstructed by cancer is infinitely strongly than for the amputation of a cancer- ous breast. In both situations, it is true, the disease must destroy life, unless removed— but in the case of the rectum the free dis- charge of the function is demanded for daily existence. The comparative rarity of visceral contamination in rectal cancer, is a general argument in favour of excision. Surgery has yet another mode—in the es- tablishment of an artificial anus—of relieving sufferers from obstructed rectum, and of ward- ing oft' imminent death. There are at least seven cases on record in which this operation has been performed on the adult subject, when every effort to relieve the distended bowels having been made in vain, symptoms of ster- coral tympanitis and strangulation with mo- mentary risk of rupture of the intestines had set in. Five of these operations proved com- pletely successful, and in one of the others the fatal event was mainly due to previous un- skilful treatment: the operation is therefore warrantable in a surgical point of view1. When the indications for performing it arise, the patient should be allowed to choose for himself between certain death and the pros- pect of life with the inconveniences of an artificial anus, which the formation of such an opening affords. When the disease is cancer- ous, the chances of ultimate advantage are, of course, vastly less than in cases of retention from simple induration ; but even here it may be justifiably performed, provided the patient, after having been made fully acquainted with the nature and likelihood of the benefit to follow, still desires to undergo it. All parti- culars connected with the manual part of the operation, and the respective merits of the plans of Littre and Callisen (that of the latter revived and modified by Amussat) will be considered in the article Fistula, Intes- tinal. For Bibliography see Rectum. (i.) Anus.—The neighbourhood of the anus is probably more frequently the seat of can- cerous disease than the interior of the rec- tum. The disease originates in scirrhous in- filtration of the lower part of the walls of the gut; or, as a cutaneous warty excrescence ; complicates ulceration of syphilitic origin ; or, as Cruveilhier states, “ succeeds to irritated haemorrhoids.” The induration attending the progress of the disease obstructs the functions of the part, and defecation becomes difficult and painful ; but as stricture is rarely induced—the orifice is on the contrary often widened by spread- ing ulceration — the effects are much less severe, than when the affection is seated in the interior of the rectum. Prolapsus of the lower part of the bowel, with an hypertrophous state of its walls, is frequently mistaken for cancerous induration : a mass of this kind, removed by Boyer as car- cinomatous, is figured in Cruveilhier’s twenty- fifth Fasciculus ; the induration was here in- creased by the presence of numerous phlebo- liths. Bayle is of opinion that elephantiasis of the vicinity of the anus—a local form of the disease which he has carefully described—is only distinguishable during life from cancer- ous ulceration by the absence of cachectic symptoms and the prompt benefit afforded by dilatation. The true remedy for anal cancer is ex- cision. The operation we have, in conformity with general habit, described under the head of cancer of the rectum, is really only appli- cable when the disease spreads from the anus : 1 See Medical Gazette, July, 1840.