AMPUTATION. 141 Perhaps he was accustomed to adopt the precept of Celsus in amputating, although it does not appear in the description he gives of this general plan ; and we are the more in- clined to believe this to have been the case, because the same thing has happened to other authors, with respect to this very precept ; deeming it perhaps a matter of course that it would be made, as it ought to be, part of every plan of amputating. Making the first incision entirely subser- vient to the division and preservation of the skin was so important an improvement on the plan of Celsus, that it is difficult to believe that he who invented it could overlook the advantage of dissecting up round the bone, so as to preserve for its defence the fibres im- mediately attached to it. Still it does often happen that the mind achieves an invention without carrying with it the discoveries which had preceded it: and this is much to be re- gretted ; for the plan most likely to effect the object of every one desirous of contributing to the advancement of science, is that he should take all that has been done by his pre- decessors and contemporaries, and then see if he can add anything valuable of his own. If Petit and Cheselden had included among their precepts that of Celsus, to dissect up round the bone before sawing it through, their plan would have been nearly as good as any that has since been devised. Benjamin Bell positively adopted this pre- cept, which he combined with the plan of Petit and Cheselden; and thus became the author of a better operation than their’s. Bell’s plan unites the two essential conditions of a good amputation, the preservation of skin to cover the stump, and the preservation of muscular fibres to protect the end of the bone. It is, therefore, inferior to none, except the modern plan, and to that only in a slight degree. The object aimed at by Alanson, namely, to preserve sufficient skin to cover the surface of the stump, and to leave the bone sunk and well defended in the muscles, is that sought to be accomplished in the modern plan of amputating, which is decidedly the best; and though he takes the proper measure for attaining it in his mode of dividing and pre- serving the skin, he falls short of it in the manner in which he directs the section of the muscles to be made. Indeed, it is impossible to follow the direction he gives for dividing the muscles ; and if it were possible, their cut ends would not form a hollow cone as he states, at least not for a moment beyond the time of their division; for, the superficial ones would retract so much, that the cone formed would be very irregular, and perhaps inverted, immediately after their retraction. To allow for this retraction, the section would require such an obliquity, that it cannot be made by one sweep of the knife, unless the instrument is used as a scoop, its point resting on and describing the circumference of the bone, while the part of its blade correspond- ing to the circumference of the limb describes the latter. To cut through the muscles of a small limb at all obliquely upwards towards the bone is extremely difficult, and to make the section sufficiently oblique, quite impossi- ble by one sweep of the knife, as Alanson proposes. Upon the whole, the plan of Alanson may be said to be far inferior to that of Bell, and scarcely equal to that of Petit ; because, al- though as regards the division of the skin, he roceeds in the same manner as these authors, is mode of dividing the muscles is not so good as theirs. The plan of Louis is intended to obviate the unequal retraction of the superficial and deep muscles, by the division of the deep layer by a separate incision after the section and consequent retraction of the superficial one. Unfortunately, however, Louis directed that the latter and the skin should be divided together. This plan differs scarcely at all from that of Celsus. Louis himself remarks, that it is rather the revival of the plan of Celsus than a new' one of his owrn which he recommends ; and, in fact, the only difference between the two appears to be, that Louis drew back and tightened the skin by means of a ligature applied round the limb, and divided by his first incision a greater thickness of muscles than Celsus. We observe in Louis the same unfortunate reluctance we have before noticed in sur- geons, to adopt in their own plans what is good in those of their immediate predecessors. Louis not only overlooked the necessity of dividing the skin first, and making sure of a sufficient quantity of it to cover the surface of the stump, but took great pains to show that the preservation of a little too much skin is a great disadvantage. But experience has demonstrated that the preservation of the skin, as directed by Petit, is of so much importance as to establish at once the great superiority of his method over that of Louis. The merit of Louis, in what concerns amputation, lies in the accuracy of his views with respect to the manner in which the muscles retract and influence the shape of the stump ; and if, as there is reason to be- lieve, his views led to the modern mode of dividing the muscles by layers, founded upon the law of their retraction, in order to do him justice, we have only to transfer our praise from the operator to the physiologist. It is also right to notice that Louis admitted the propriety of a separate incision for preserving the skin in amputations of the forearm and leg. It was for the arm, and more especially for the thigh, that he recommended the plan w'hich bears his name. Dupuytren, by a strange and inexplicable fatality, operated like Louis in dividing the skin and muscles together. He differed from him in making more incisions of the latter, and in having the skin drawn tight and fixed by the hands of an assistant, instead of em- ploying a ligature.