AMPUTATION. 132 cause it is small and can be easily covered in, cushioned and protected by soft parts ; be- cause it is not vascular enough to be much exposed to morbid action, yet sufficiently so for all the purposes required of it; and because, from having no cartilage to be absorbed prior to cicatrization, it heals promptly. M. Blandin would have a stump composed of a large substance of bone and a small sub- stance of soft parts ; but it has ever been the object, and it has become the precept of the best modern surgeons to make it of much soft parts and little bone ; and we know of no facts or arguments calculated to reverse this maxim. Setting apart the considerations we have just presented with respect to the joints, the place for amputating is to be determined by the nature and extent of the disease requiring the operation, and the state in which the limb and stump will be left after it. It some- times happens that amputation may be per- formed at one of several places, and that the case admits of a choice in this respect. Any point thus selected as the best is called, by the French, the place of election (lieu (Selec- tion ). Sometimes there is only one spot at which the operation can be performed at all, or can be performed without serious inconve- nience ; and when such is the case, the French call it the place of necessity (lieu de necessite ). No very absolute rules can be laid down for fixing the place of election, as that must vary somewhat in each particular case. Still the following general maxims should be kept in view. First,—it should always be, if possible, beyond the disease, and in sound parts. This rule must be rigidly adhered to in cases of malignant disease ; but it may be departed from where the inconvenience of operating beyond the disease more than counterbalances that of cutting amidst parts not quite sound, as it happens in some cases where the latter are only the seat of inflammation : experience has shown that parts affected with inflamma- tion and even in a hardened and thickened state are not incompatible with the formation of a good stump. In some cases of mortifica- tion, where, from the refusal of the patient or some other cause, amputation cannot be per- formed in the living parts, it may be judicious to remove the whole, or nearly the whole of the sphacelated portion of the limb, in order to remove as much as possible the inconveni- ence arising from a mass of animal matter in a state of decomposition. Secondly,—the place of election should be as far as possible from the trunk. The wound will thus be reduced to its minimum of ex- tent, and, in general, of its danger ; and in most cases, the greatest usefulness that can belong to a portion of the limb or stump will be secured to the patient. The exceptions to this rule will be indicated more especially in the description of each particular amputation. Thirdly,—let the place of election never be an articulation. For the reasons already given, let amputation be performed, if possi- ble, always beyond an articulation rather than in it. Combining these rules with the cir- cumstances of each particular case, the sur- geon will always be able to decide at what place the operation is to be performed. The place of necessity varies for different dis- eases. In cases of mortification it is on a level with the inflammatory circle limiting it, or a few lines only beyond this circle. In malignant diseases'it is'as near the trunk as possible, or, at any rate, beyond the joint in- terposed between the trunk and the disease. For mechanical lesions, such as compound fractures and dislocations, it is not necessarily in or beyond the joint situated above the dis- order, as stated by M. Blandin, but, on the contrary, in the nearest part to the lesion that will admit of the formation of a good stump. In determining the exact extent of any disorder the surgeon must not content himself with a superficial examination ; he must not only direct his attention to the state of the skin but also to that of every other element of the limb ; otherwise the knife might fall on parts in a state so different to that in which he expected to find them as to require a fresh amputation. Preparation of the patient.—By discreet and skilful measures, the patient may be influenced favourably, or somewhat prepared, both in body and mind, to bear surgical operations ; and for one so severe as amputation they are especially necessary. The patient must fully make up his mind to bear the operation with firmness and courage. The surgeon can assist him to do this by judicious management. To a certain extent, they should consider toge- ther the necessity of the operation ; and from a proper and unstudied interchange ot thought there will arise a mutual confidence which is highly propitious. This obtained, he must enter into the patient’s feelings, reply can- didly and attentively to all his inquiries; and, by proving the absolute necessity of the. ope- ration, by showing that the pain of it al- though considerable is not intolerable or of long duration, and by fairly stating the cir- cumstances that will lighten and somewhat compensate for the loss of the limb, set all doubts and fears at rest. In general it is not well to urge the patient to submit to it, but it may be proper to recall to his mind the principal circumstances of the case, such as the means employed without benefit, the in- efficiency of any other measure, the disad- vantages of further delay—and then to appeal to him for his own opinion whether he does not consider it necessary. It is not easy to give directions in this matter : a great deal must be left to the sagacity of the surgeon, who will adapt his arguments to the state ot mind of the patient. There should be as little delay as possible after the patient has made up his mind. The apprehension of the operation must not be allowed to prey on him. He must not be kept in suspense. A good surgeon will therefore take care that any preparatory treatment which requires