276 ANEURISM. about the same distance from the spine of the ilium on the outside, as from the angle of the pubis on the inside. This brought into view the aponeurosis of the external oblique, which was divided on a director, to the same extent as the external incision, and parallel to Pou- part’s ligament. The slight connection of the cremaster muscle with the femoral artery was then broken up with a blunt knife, and both the muscle and the spermatic vessels were carried towards the pubis. The fascia transversalis, with the opening through which the spermatic cord passes into the inguinal canal, then pre- sents itself. This opening is dilated with the finger, until the epigastric artery, which lies just behind it, is exposed. Following this ar- tery with the finger towards its origin, the iliac artery is easily discovered. During the whole time of the operation, but more especially after the muscles have been divided, the walls of the abdomen should be kept perfectly relaxed, and the patient should avoid any sudden movement, or ef- fort, as otherwise the peritoneum may be wounded. Each of these methods has its advantages and disadvantages. Abernethy’s first method is reproached with an extensive and unneces- sary exposure of the peritoneum, which on the other hand is compensated for, by the fa- cility which it gives for reaching and tying the vessel. Those of Sir A. Cooper, Mr. Norman, and Bogros, in which the wound is prolonged, it is said uselessly, towards the spine of the ilium, expose less to lesion of the epigastric artery, and to subsequent hernia; but the facility of placing the ligature is not so great, and the vessel cannot be reached to as great a height as in the former method. This is particularly the case in Bogros’ modi- fication. These inconveniences however are easily obviated by prolonging the external angle of the incision obliquely upwards. Whatever method may be adopted, the im- portance of respecting, the epigastric artery should not be lost sight of, as some of the cases of this operation have proved fatal solely in consequence of haemorrhage from a wound of this vessel. Dupuytren lost a patient upon whom he operated in 1821 in this way. In placing the ligature, the epigastric artery should be left below it. Beclard lost a patient from neglecting this point: the epigastric artery came otf above the ligature, and the ■formation of a sufficient coagulum having been thus prevented, a fatal haemorrhage oc- curred on the separation of the ligature. English surgeons allow an inch at least to intervene between the ligature and any col- lateral branch, either above or below it, which from its size might convey blood into the tu- mour, and thus keep up its pulsations or pre- vent the formation of a coagulum. The dangers of a different practice are now too well understood, for any intelligent practitioner to incur them unnecessarily. The method of operating may however be less a matter of choice than of necessity, as the size, state, and situation of the tumour may determine. In regard to the obliteration of the iliac artery, certain facts were known at an early period of the last century, which might have pointed to the probability of a successful result from the application of a ligature upon that vessel. Guattani’s and Scarpa’s injections had clearly established, that although a ligature had been previously placed on the external iliac artery, the coloured fluid passed freely into the arteries of the thigh and leg. In Guattani’s case, already mentioned, in which he cured an inguinal aneurism by compression, both the femoral and iliac arteries were oblite- rated. This case dates as far back as 1767. In a case of Gavina’s, which he operated on in 1755, on examining after death, the iliac artery was found completely impermeable. Baillie observed another case in which the oblitera- tion of the femoral artery was continued up into the pelvis, while the limb was nourished as usual. Clarke observed a similar case in 1784. Notwithstanding the obvious tendency ot these and other similar indications, it was only the danger of immediate death to his patient that compelled Abernethy to overlook the remoter dangers of mortification of the limb, or consecutive haemorrhage, when he first performed this bold operation in 1796. He was unsuccessful in his two first cases, but in his third case, he was completely successful. Abernethy was followed by Freer of Birming- ham in the same year 1806, and Tomlinson of the same town in 1807. The latter had a second successful case in 1809. From this period, the practice spread rapidly. In the next year, the external iliac was tied for the first time in France by Delaporte of Brest, and this case in all likelihood would have been successful, had the ligature been had recourse to at an earlier period. The ravages produced by the tumour itself, were so extensive, that the inflammation which followed in the dis- eased mass, proved fatal. Goodlad had a successful case in 1811, and Dorsey of Phila- delphia, another in the same year. In 1812, Bouchet of Lyons operated with success on a patient, who died of an aneurism in the oppo- site limb, in the following year. In the same year, Albert’s patient died of tetanus, on the 20th day after the operation. Mr. Norman and Mr.' Brodie had each a successful case in 1813. and Mr. Lawrence one in 1814. Mr. Samuel Cooper states, out of 25 cases, that he only knew of three in which the limb was at- tacked with gangrene ; and these three were the patients of Sir A. Cooper, Bouchet of Lyons, and Mr. Collier. The operation of tying the external iliac is now as fully accredited in surgery as that of any other artery. It has been attended with a fair average of success in comparison with other operations of a similar kind. Indeed Mr. Wilmot remarks that as compared with the ligature of the artery in the thigh, the ligature of the external iliac artery presents more recoveries in proportion to the number