705 CATARACT. The term cataract is used to denote that dis- ease of the eye, in which an opaque body, situated between the iris and vitreous humour, disturbs and destroys vision. This disease usually consists of an opaque state either of the crystalline lens, of its capsule, or both ; but it may also consist of opacity of the liquor Morgagni, or of opaque lymph effused into the pupil, in front of the capsule of the lens. The true nature and seat of cataract does not appear to have been distinctly understood till the beginning of the eighteenth century, when Antoine Maitre Jean made it known to the world, by a publication on the subject in 1707. This learned author was followed by Brisseau, Heister, St. Yves, Petit, and Daviel. Many highly distinguished authors have since advanced our knowledge of this subject both in Britain and upon the continent of Europe. Among these may be enumerated Walther, Langenbeck, Buchhorn, Reisinger, Beer, Richter, and Weller, in Germany ; Sabatier, Delpech, Demours, Boyer, and Wenzel, in France ; Scarpa, in Italy ; and Ware, Pott, Hey, B. Bell, Gibson, Saunders, Wardrop, Travers, Guthrie, Lawrence, Mackenzie, Tyr- rell, Middlemore, &c. in Britain. As might be expected from such a combination of talent and learning, brought to bear on this subject, and their extensive opportunities of experi- ence, our knowledge of the nature and treat- ment of cataract has attained a very high degree of perfection. Before entering upon the nature, symptoms, and treatment of cataract, we shall premise a very brief sketch of the anatomy and physi- ology of the chrystalline lens; for, by so doing, the account we are to give of cataract and its treatment will be much better understood ; the proper treatment of this disease being founded more upon the anatomy and physi- ology of the lens, and the natural changes it undergoes under particular circumstances, than upon the nature of the disease. $ I. Anatomy and Physiology of the Crystalline Lens and its Capsule. Of the three humours which occupy the in- terior of the eyeball, the crystalline humour or lens stands interposed between the aqueous humour, which is in front, and the vitreous humour, which is behind. The lens is a dou- ble convex and transparent body, of a cir- cular form. It is situated almost immedi- ately behind the iris ; its central part, which is behind the pupil, may, therefore, be dis- tinctly seen, as it has there only the trans- Earent cornea and aqueous humour interposed etween it and the observer. Fig. 1. When the crystalline lens retains its natu- ral transparency, the pupil in the living body has the appearance of a black spot, and the presence ot the lens cannot be discerned; but when the lens is affected with cataract, it is distinctly seen behind the pupil, in conse- quence of its opacity arresting and reflecting the rays of light which enter the eyeball. The lens is contained in a capsule or proper VOL. i. investing tunic. This capsule is thin, trans- parent, and somewhat elastic. The anterior part of this capsule, which covers the anterior convexity of the lens, has the aqueous humour in contact with it;—the posterior part of the capsule of the lens, which covers its posterior convexity, is in contact and intimately con- nected with, the capsule or investing tunic of the vitreous humour. Hence the anterior half of the crystalline lens, covered by its capsule, projects into the aqueous humour, while the posterior half projects backwards, into the vitreous humour. Each of these parts of the capsule of the lens may be considered to consist of two layers; the one, which is in contact with the lens, forming its proper capsule, while the more exterior layer consists of a part of the capsule or membrane of the aqueous humour anteri- orly, and of the hyaloid membrane of the vi- treous humour posteriorly. The crystalline lens is solid, soft, and of a firm gelatinous consistence at middle age ; but is softer in youth, and becomes firmer and harder as age advances. During infancy and childhood, the lens is nearly globular, and, as age advances, it becomes less so, and growing gradually flatter towards manhood, till it assumes the form of a double convex lens, composed of segments of two spheres, possessing different degrees of curvature, the anterior one being less curved, or forming the segment of a larger sphere than the posterior one. In youth, therefore, the lens is of greater convexity and stronger powers than in after life. Fig. 2. In youth the lens is quite transparent and colourless, but in old age it acquires a yellow- ish amber colour. This shows itself in the living eye, by slight opacity of the lens, which does not materially affect the sight. By boil- ing, the lens becomes coagulated, and is found to consist chiefly of albumen. When so boiled in water, it may be separated into concentric layers. The lens and its capsule do not appear to have any adhesion to each other. There is a small quantity of fluid interposed between them, which has been called the liquor Morgagni. It is also highly probable that the lens is con- nected to its capsule by very minute colour- less bloodvessels, which pass into it from its capsule at the margin. The circumference or margin of the lens is not in contact, as has been supposed, with the anterior extremities of the ciliary processes. A portion of the other humours of the eye occupies a small space around the lens, between it and these processes. This space may be called the zonula lucida; for in cases where the lens is opaque, the light is admitted into the eye through this ring. The vitreous humour, enclosed in its hyaloid membrane, projects anteriorly as far as the ciliary pro- cesses around the margin of the lens, so as to form the posterior part of this transparent ring or zonula lucida. Upon the membrane covering this portion of the vitreous humour anteriorly, very minute vessels radiate from