338 FRACTURE. apparatus of retention, and in a good measure, secure the patient from disturbing influences. The same relation of parts may subsequent ly be maintained, if necessary, with less confine- ment. There is no kind of fracture in which relaxation of muscles is more evidently useful than in fracture of the body of the jaw with great displacement. In open fractures of the maxilla, the indications of treatment, as far as regards the adjustment and maintenance of the bones, is the same as when there is no wound. If there be loose and detached splin- ters or fragments, these should be removed, provided it can be done with gentleness, and without increasing that injury which it is intended to alleviate. The wound should then be closed, and, if external, covered with a piece of lint, provided its appearance justifies the expectation, that union by adhesion may be produced. If, however, there appear to be too much contusion to admit of this, a bread and water poultice, to which Liq. Plumb, subacet. dil. may be added, is a good application. This may be retained by the four-tailed bandage in the manner already described. Precise rules cannot be laid down for the proper time of changing the dressings, either in the simple or open fractures. No pos- sible advantage can arise from disturbing the dressings, so long as the bones remain in apposition, and the patient is at ease. No further interference is needed if the surgeon can be assured of this. It is, however, proper to be daily assured of this, and to rectify any displacement as soon as it occurs. Fractures of the jaw are said to be united at the end of four weeks; and solidly, after thirty-five days. These may be taken as the average periods for adults ; but in different individuals, and in those of various ages, there will be consider- able differences in this respect. Instances have occurred, where, from the adaptation of the broken portions of bone not being steadily secured, and perhaps from some unknown peculiarity of constitution, or from disease, the fracture has never been repaired by bone. In general, however, as the bone is well sup- plied with blood, the production of a bony union is readily effected. It may happen, that the want of sufficient contact, at a certain period of the reparation, is the cause of ligamentous union,—the broken surfaces becoming each coated wfith an adven- titious periosteum, and the intervening space filled by contracted cellular membrane, which motion and stretching convert into ligament. In such a case, a seton or tent between the fragments, wide enough to excite periostitis on both, would lead to the growth and inos- culation of bone, on each side of the irritating body. The two parts once united, if only by a point, would not again separate, unless from a constitutional cause, or the taking of mer- cury. The fracture of this false union would be the cause of its growing stronger, as would also every slight yielding until perfectly strong. A separation of the tw'o rami at the sym- physis, in early life, is a very rare accident. It is in all respects equal to a diastasis. In after life fracture at this precise part is still more rare. The diagnosis and treatment of these injuries is unattended by difficulty. FRACTURES OF THE LARYNX. These injuries demand a place in the general category of fractures, although the records of surgery are almost destitute of accounts of them. Fractures of the os hyoidcs.—The fracture of the os hyoldes is exceedingly rare, evi- dently on account of its protected situation, though its mobility and elasticity are access- ary safeguards. A compression, resembling that of strangulation, and the pressure of the fingers and thumb against the two sides of the bone, have produced this accident1. Pain, difficulty of speech and deglutition, inability to protrude the tongue, and tumefaction, are attendant symptoms ; but these belong also to general injuries. The finger deep in the mouth may distinguish the fracture, and even the fact of its being open or simple. In one case in which the patient felt the giving way of the bone, the right ramus was divided and retracted. In another case the fracture was on the left side, the tongue drawn to the right, and the fragment was advanced. The finger at the base of the tongue did not cause pain, but thrusting back the tongue produced distress. The parts are to be as nearly adjusted by the two fore-fingers as the case will admit. The mouth is to be kept as much closed as possible, and the head forwards. An oeso- phagus-tube passed through the nares, and there retained, has been found useful for the easy administration of food. Enemata become important resources, as a means of nutrition, W'here distress is excited by food in the pharynx. Contusions, inflammations, and even cerebral congestion being present, may demand active treatment. The osseous basis of the thyroid cartilage, though late in its development, is a genuine bone, and very unlike the earthy infiltration of the cartilages of the ribs. The bone we are speaking of possesses a thin shell, with scanty and delicate reticulations for its can- celli. Its origin, and the progress of its forma- tion, its diseases, injuries, and reparative ef- forts, are strictly those of bone. In these re- spects it is most analogous to the patella and sternum ; and although the chief importance of its injuries relates to the air tube, (with which w'e shall consider them,) it is necessary to set down the fracture, as well as the necro- sis, of the thyroid cartilage, as belonging to the lesions of true bone. As in many other cases, the less that is done to diagnose the injury, or to remedy it, the better ; though it may be readily understood that a fracture might cause such obstruction as to require immediate ope- ration, to prevent asphyxia. 1 Lalesque, Journal Hebdomad., 1833. Aubcrgc, Revue Medicale, 1835.