129 AMPUTATION. soon kills the patient, especially when it is of the same nature as that for which amputation has been performed ; as we see daily in scro- fulous complaints. We cannot often expect a favourable result when amputation is per- formed for a disease likely to return in the stump, or to break out afresh in some other part. The more distant the place from the trunk, and the smaller the part where amputation is per- formed, the less serious the operation. Am- putation performed on the abdominal is more serious than on the thoracic limbs. The plan of operating and the skill of the operator have also something to do with the result. General circumstances, such as the abode of the patient, the care and comforts he can obtain, the climate, season, &c., bear directly on the prognosis of this as well as of all other im- portant operations. Time for Amputating.—Although the time for amputating must in general be a time of necessity, yet, as there may be some room for choice in this respect, we admit also, if not absolutely, within certain limits, a time of election. With regard to mechanical injuries requir- ing amputation, surgeons of the present day seem pretty well to agree that no time should be lost, and that the operation should be per- formed immediately after their infliction. Formerly there were opposite opinions on this matter. Some maintained that the ope- ration should be performed, at least, within the twenty-four hours ; others that it ought to be deferred until after the decline of the general reaction following local injuries. The Paris- ian Academy of Surgery decided in favour of the latter opinion, when the question was brought before it, about the year 1760. It was there contended, on the one side, that imme- diately after the shock of a severe injury, the system is in a state of commotion which inca- pacitates it for bearing the operation ; and that delay has the advantage of showing, in each particular case, Nature’s power of repa- ration, which, when great, may be sufficient to save a limb that would otherwise have been sacrificed, from its appearing at the time of the infliction of the injury absolutely to de- mand amputation. The opponents of this doctrine, on the contrary, urged the absence of inflammation and suppuration before the local disorder has had time to affect the body and create reaction, as an unanswerable argu- ment in favour of immediate amputation, which, they stated truly, subtracts the patient from the trial to which life is put by the local and general reaction which follows severe me- chanical lesions. It is certainly true, that it is better to amputate when the body is in a state of calm, before reaction has commenced ; but on the other hand, it cannot be denied, that the operation is in itself a shock added to that of the injury. If it be. true that the body suffers less or runs less risk from this shock than from the inflammatory process and accidents that may supervene when the limb is allowed to remain, VOL. I. then clearly the operation may be performed. Experience shows this to be the case. Con- secutive, compared to immediate amputation, has been more than doubly fatal; and the few limbs which have been saved by delay are but a poor set-off against the loss of life it has oc- casioned. As we have shown in another place, ampu- tation performed during the process of suppu- ration but rarely succeeds. When the imme- diate shock of the lesion upon the nervous system is so great as to cause general stupor for any length of time, immediate amputation is nearly always fatal. But, in such a case, does not the patient perish rather from the primary injury solely; and does not death ensue as certainly where the operation has been omitted? If so, it would perhaps be better to amputate, even in this case, because the operation might possibly tend to rouse the patient, and to create a salutary reaction. Notwithstanding the reluctance a surgeon must feel to amputate when the body remains in a state of stupor which affords little or no hope of success, it would certainly be right to perform the operation, if the severity of the injury were so great as to preclude all possi- bility of saving the limb. From what has been stated of other dis- orders requiring amputation, under their re- spective heads, an inference may be made, with regard to them, as to the precise time the operation ought to be performed. We shall, hovvever, briefly recall, in this place, the rules which have been recommended. In most cases of mortification, the formation of an inflammatory circle indicates the time for operating; but the exceptions to this rule, which have already been stated, must not be forgotten. For all malignant diseases, amputation should be performed the moment the com- plete extirpation of the malady is ascertained to be impossible. In the few instances of extensive suppura- tion, or ulceration, for which amputation is justifiable, the time must vary according to the circumstances of each particular case. M. Blandin1 endeavours to establish a division of suppuration into acute and chronic.— The terms are not strictly appropriate; because all the distinction that can be admitted is that between suppuration of long standing, and suppuration from a recent lesion. He would call chronic that suppuration which results from scrofulous inflammation in the lymphatic glands, and acute that which occurs to sepa- rate the eschar of an extensive burn. The period for amputating in cases of extensive suppuration of long standing is correctly stated, by M. Blandin and others, to be when the patient is somewhat, but not too much weakened by the purulent secretion : in cases of recent suppuration, on the contrary, the operation should be performed as soon as it is ascertained to be necessary. For those 1 Diet, de Med. etChir. Prat., Art. Amputation.