546 BURNS AND SCALDS. Thus the burn is localized, and no further treatment required. Great circumspection must be exercised, however, as to the ap- plication of cold, not merely because vesica- tions take place more extensively on its em- ployment, but because, if a large surface has its temperature suddenly lowered, that augments the tendency to collapse, and likewise the diffi- culty of breathing, and in the instance of the abdomen may give rise to dangerous disorders of the bowels. As a general rule, the employment of oily and unctuous substances ought to be aban- doned ; they interrupt the local cutaneous transpiration, and favour the eruption of blisters. If the burn be extensive, or if vesication be present, among all the means that have been proposed, there is none better suited for assuaging at once the pain and tranquillizing the patient, than a covering of carded cotton. It seems to act by maintaining an equable warmth, and excluding the impression of the external air. Cotton wool has been in great repute among the surgeons of North America, as a cure for burns. The discovery of its efficacy, according to a tradition, was purely accidental. The infant of a negress having had the whole surface of the body burnt, was uttering the most piteous cries ; the mother, terrified, and not knowing how to act, placed it in the midst of a heap of cotton, while she hastened to procure assistance. On her return she found the little sufferer calm and free from pain : guided by this unex- pected success, she wrapped him up in the cotton, and he rapidly recovered. Latterly the cotton has been much used in Scotland. To Dr. Anderson, of Glasgow, we are in- debted for many valuable observations respect- ing its employment. The most remarkable and immediate effect of the application of a fleece of cotton, when laid upon a burned or scalded surface, is the prompt cessation ofthe pain and irritation. In superficial cases, by diminishing the inflam- matory phenomena, it accelerates the cure; when the cutis is exposed or destroyed to a greater or less extent, the cotton forms with the liquid exudation a sort of enve- lope, which protects the denuded surface and favours the formation of a new epi- dermis ; in the most severe cases, where the ravages produced by the combustion leave no hope of the patient’s recovery, its utility is still great, for it occasions much alleviation, nay sometimes the complete subsidence of pain. Several patients who had been pre- viously treated by other methods, expe- rienced superior benefit by the use of this agent. A remarkable instance in corrobora- tion has been related by Dr. Anderson. A young girl had both legs burned to the same extent ; one was dressed with raw cotton, the other with simple cerate ; this last remained for a long time inflamed and painful; the sores were not cicatrized before three months ; while the leg dressed with cotton was found to be quite healed when the latter was removed in three weeks’ time after its application, and had only been the seat of slight pain. In France its advantages have been realized by M. Larrey, and several of his professional brethren. The cotton is to be applied in thin recently carded fleeces. When vesicles or bullae are present, more or less considerable, Dr. Anderson directs that the serosity be evacuated, and the part bathed with tepid water, before the cotton is laid on. The sores are then to be covered with successive strata of carded cotton, so as to preclude all compression and movement; in some cases, a roller is necessary to maintain the dressing. When the skin is deeply burnt, he prefers a lotion of spirit of lavender, or turpentine. If the suppuration is so abundant, in one or more points, as to exude from the layer above, or if it exhales a fetid odour, offensive to the patient and his attendants, the moistened cotton is to be replaced with fresh fleeces. This must be performed with the utmost promptitude, so as to leave the inflamed surface exposed as short as possi- ble to the air. But, as it is always impor- tant to keep the patient in a state of most perfect repose and quietude for some time, the dressings should be let alone as long as is deemed right, notwithstanding the disagree- able smell'. A plan similar to the above consists in ap- plying to burns the silky pappus surrounding the seeds of several varieties oftypha, cats-tail, or reed mace. The first notice of this plant as a topical dressing in burns is to be found in Dio- scorides.who advises its application, mixed with axunge2. For several years the down of the reed mace had been employed as a remedy by the inhabitants of a village situated in the de- partment of the Aube in France, and M. Jules Cloquet has the merit of directing attention to it by a series of successful experiments he instituted at the Hopital St. Antoine in Paris. This mode, like that recommended by Dr. Anderson, is most advantageous, when the burn has pervaded the whole thickness of the skin, or even penetrated to the subcutaneous layeh The varieties of the plant best suited for the purpose are, the Typha Dtifolia; T. media ; T. angustifolia. Before using it, the grains are to be separated from each other, to be well shaken, so as to develop the pappus, and yield a down as light as possible. The burned part is to be exactly covered with the down, until the process of cicatrization is completed, when the dressing comes away spontaneously. The typha, from its silky nature, acts as a singularly mild substance, no wise susceptible of creating irritation or giving rise to unpleasant trac- tion. The layer, more immediately in con- tact with the denuded surface, absorbs the secreted fluids, forms with these a natural 1 Glasgow Medical Journal, May 1(128. 5 Lib. 3. cap. 133. cit. in Diet, de Medccine.