50 ADHESION. becomes united to the uterus. The opinion of the Physiological School of Pathologists is thus expounded by Roche and Sanson, (iVoM- veaux Elemens de Physiologie, ii. p. 504.) “ Like the flow of blood, this exudation of the white fluids is owing to the division of the vessels of the tissues, and of the tissues them- selves ; when the opposing surfaces are placed in contact, this lymph is necessarily spread in a layer between the lips of the wound. Driven out from its natural conduits, and placed be- yond the domain of vitality, it speedily coagu- lates. But the part is presently attacked by irritation, or rather already painful and irrita- ted by the effect of the accident, its irritation increases rapidly, its vitality is augmented, and the layer of coagulated lymph promptly assumes the character of a membrane. But we may ask, did Hunter deny that parts might adhere without any sign of inflamma- tory action being manifested during the pro- cess ? Quite the contrary. In his division of inflammation into adhesive and suppurative, he seems less anxious about entering into a disquisition as to the constant presence of in- flammation for the production of adhesion, than to mark the phases of the vital act that pro- duces it. The idea which he connects with this act is that of increased activity of the nervous and capillary systems, with augmen- tation of the plasticity, which he is a witness will often arise without pain, redness, heat, or swelling. The sense which he attaches to the term adhesive inflammation is that of an action by which the vessels become capable of se- creting the plastic element, and in this Thom- son, Cruveilhier, and almost all the pathologists of this country, coincide. Thomson thus ex- presses himself in his admirable work on in- flammation : “ If the effusion of coagulated lymph ever does take place from the vessels actually divided, it would seem to depend on a change in the action of these vessels, by which they are in some measure converted from cir- culating into secreting organs.” In speaking of the source of the coagulating lymph, Hunter says it is not easy to determine whether it comes from the cut vessels or the open cells; and in several passages in the same chapter he alludes to the painlessness of the action itself by which the lymph is produced. Thus, at page 319', he says, “ It does not seem neces- sary that both surfaces which are to be united, should be in a state of inflammation for the pur- pose of effecting a union ; it appears only ne- cessary that one should be in such a state, which is to furnish the materials, viz., to throw out the coagulating lymph, and the opposite uninflamed surface accepts simply of the union ; for I just observed, that extravasated blood produces a union without inflammation, and we often find adhesions of parts which can hardly be called inflamed.” One of the commonest alterations in the whole range of pathology is presented to us in those adhesions which occur between two 1 A Treatise on the Blood, Inflammation, and Gun- shot wounds. Sherwood, Gilbert, and Piper ; London. portions of the pleural surfaces, and yet their production is effected in numerous instances without any perceptible symptom indicative of their formation. When it is remembered that there are some shades of inflammation, the phenomena of which are so slow and so obscure as to excite no suspicion of their ex- istence, it will scarcely be denied that those adhesions in the internal membranes are pro- duced without perceptible vascular excitement. We have just seen that this imperceptibility of the signs of inflammation is quite in accord- ance with the doctrine of Hunter ; the exci- tation in the case of a wound may be equally imperceptible, though really present, the trau- matic lesion producing no other effect upon the divided parts than that of placing them in the same condition as to the exudation of lymph that the vascular excitement had placed the internal membranes, and thus the cellular tissue may at once enter upon the reparative process, without manifesting the excitement. As regards the opinion of M. Serre, we will not deny the analogy that exists between the process of adhesive inflammation, and that by which the ovum and the uterus become connected ; nor is it necessary, in support of Hunter’s views, that we should. Before we consented to debate the point, we should re- quire of those who have taken up an idea on this subject, which they conceive to differ from that of Hunter, first, to prove that the pro- cess by which the parts of the foetus become united differs from that by which it is effected in the state of extra-uterine existence. That which is inflammation in the fully-developed tissues of an independent organism may possi- bly present very different appearances in the foetus, alt hough the mode or act itself by which it is effected may be essentially the same in both cases. As we have already observed, the elements of the foetus consist almost solely of the plastic kind, and are naturally in that state of active excitement which we conceive to follow the infliction of a wound. We may here repeat an observation which, amongst physiologists, obtains the currency of an ax- iom, viz., that which would constitute fever in the adult is normal action in the infant or the foetus. The act whereby adhesion is effected, whe- ther by the adhesive or suppurative process, must be, both in its essence and elements, the same. In the first instance, coagulable lymph thrown out from the broken surface becomes the bond of union ; in the second, the same lymph is thrown out by the granulations, and effects the same end. Nature has only been interrupted by the suppurative act, arising from the more active inflammatory process. Lymph is a living secretion, elaborated in a perfect state of preparation to form adhesions, so long as the excitement or inflammatory ac- tion, in virtue of which it is produced, remains confined to purely reparative limits; when the inflammation runs higher, the secretion is not reparatory, but morbid, and pus is formed. The secretion of lymph, whether from the celis, the ends of divided vessels, or the residt I