807 ANKYLOSIS. rounding the joint from those which are the result of disease in the tissues proper to thejoint itself. The advantages which will be gained by employing this line of demarcation are sufficient to warrant its introduction. In the first class will be included the large ma- jority of the cases in which ankylosis is cur- able ; in cases of the second class a cure is very uncommon. Again, in the first class of cases, ankylosis is generally a result to be guarded against, while in the second class it is too often a desirable consummation of a disease otherwise more fatal. The cases of the first class are invariably false anky- loses ; those of the second may be either false or true. It is readily granted that these two classes not unfrequently run into one another; that, for example, synovial inflam- mation may occasion thickening of tissues ex- ternal to the joint ; but there are no arbitrary classifications to which the same objection is not applicable, and in this case the advantages of making the distinction are sufficiently ob- vious. We proceed therefore to consider, A. Ankylosis, the result of lesion of tissues surrounding the joint. This species, which may be termed, for brevity, external ankylosis, results from a great variety of morbid states. Long con- tinued rest is alone sufficient to produce it. A joint is preserved in its healthy state by exercise. When that is withheld the synovial secretion diminishes, the ligaments and ten- dons become stiffened, the muscles are rigid and contracted. Petit, and others who adopted his opinions, thought that the stiffness conse- quent on long repose arises from an accumu- lation of synovia in the joint, and a thickened state of the fluid ; but a more inquiring patho- logy has taught that joints in this state con- tain a diminished quantity of synovia, and that not at all thickened. Ankylosis from this cause is very commonly seen after frac- tures ; but if the fracture have taken place in the neighbourhood of the articulation, inflam- matory deposit has assisted in producing the rigidity. Perhaps the purest example of an- kylosis from rest is seen in those Indian fakirs, who, from religious motives, confine themselves for long periods of time to one position. These men have usually several immoveable joints. Diseases of cellular membrane arc a prolific source of external ankylosis. A slight wound, an ulcer, inflammation of veins or absorbents, the presence of an abscess, and various other causes may awaken an inflammation in the cellular tissue, which proceeds with varying degrees of rapidity to the effusion of lymph, and until this is absorbed the motions of the joint are greatly limited. It not unfrequently happens that this inflammation, when it oc- curs in the neighbourhood of a ginglymoid joint affects only one side of the articulation, which is usually that most abundantly supplied with cellular tissue, as the fore part of the elbow or the back part of the knee. In this case, motion is limited only in one direction, while in the opposite it can be performed al- most or quite to the accustomed extent. The following is an interesting example of external ankylosis dependent on inflammation of cellular membrane. In the middle of January, 1837, I was consulted by a gentle- man who stated that in the latter end of the preceding November he had been bitten in the left ham by a dog. The wound was slight, and healed without much difficulty, but a hardness remained which had been gra- dually extending ever since, and had latterly been accompanied by an inability to move the knee freely. When I first saw him the space between the flexor tendons was extremely hard, the whole leg was swollen and tense, and pitted slightly on pressure; the back part of the thigh, almost to the nates was in- durated, while the front part of the thigh and of the knee-joint remained unaffected ; the leg could be flexed nearly to the natural ex- tent, but could not be extended beyond a right angle with the thigh, and the motions of the ankle-joint were very limited. The skin of the part affected was hot, and there was some pain on pressure, or when the limb was dependent, but the general health was unaffected. The disease, in spite of the mea- sures taken to combat it, advanced ; the right limb became similarly affected, and the con- traction of the left leg was the most extreme I ever saw. At length, however, the sub- acute inflammation of cellular membrane was subdued by position, cold applications, the steam-bath, and a gentle mercurial course ; after which the induration and consequent contraction were gradually removed by pas- sive motion, emollient applications with fric- tion, and tight bandaging. Lesion of muscles and tendons is not an un- frequent cause of external ankylosis. Thus, after thecal abscess, we frequently see one or more fingers permanently contracted and motionless. This occasionally arises from sloughing of the tendon, but more frequently from adhesions formed between the opposed surfaces of the theca, and hence arises the necessity of paying much attention to the position of the fingers during the recovery from this disease. The sloughing of tendon and muscle from the presence of abscesses, the involuntary contraction of muscular fibre, if long continued, and the rigidity of these structures consequent upon want of exer- cise, are other causes of ankylosis. Again, if the right balance of muscular power be over- turned, a degree of ankylosis ensues. The uninjured muscle has lost its antagonist, and, meeting with no resistance, is in constant action. It becomes shorter until at length all attempts to restore the member to a proper position would be fruitless without a previous division of the contracted muscle. If this state of things be not attended to, extreme contractions sometimes ensue, and the joint around which this disturbance has taken place becomes insusceptible both of X 2