ARM, BEND OF. 373 and perfect anastomosis :—4. That tying the artery, upon J. Hunter’s principle, is deci- dedly injudicious, and not in accordance with that great man’s views, who was induced to tie the vessel at some distance from the dis- ease, lest it should not be in a sound state : in this form of aneurism such fear is almost groundless. This case, with many more men- tioned in M. Breschet’s interesting paper, proves beyond refutation, that little benefit can be obtained by tying the brachial artery at the middle of the arm. This observation likewise shows, that a ligature placed above and very near the disease may sometimes be ineffectual, especially in an old case, and in which the artery was formerly tied at a dis- tance from the disease; both these causes ren- dering the collateral circulation in the anasto- mosing vessels very active. Finally, the result of this operation warns the surgeon of the danger of using the needle and ligature in the dark, or at hazard ; since the median nerve was comprised in one ligature, and the bra- chial artery transfixed by the other. I cannot finish this important subject without making a few more observations. After having clearly made out this disease by careful dissection, I was naturally aston- ished that similar cases should not have been described, and felt convinced that they must have existed. I have since that period disco- vered that two observations of varicose aneu- rism (between the artery and deep vein) of the arm are upon record, but they have not been duly understood or appreciated. In speaking of varicose aneurism of the arm fol- lowing bleeding, Mr. Liston1 makes the fol- lowing extraordinary assertions : “ But aneu- rism may form in communication with the vein, and two cases of this kind are recorded. This is, properly, varicose aneurism, a disease oftener talked about than understood. This form is treated in the same way as the false aneurism in its early or more advanced stages, by ligature at the wounded part, or in the middle of the upper arm.” It is hard to imagine how this author can only have cognizance of two cases of this kind of aneurism ; his reading must indeed be very limited. But what is most surprising is, that Mr. Liston should have added a wood-cut engraving (without expla- nations) for the better comprehension of a disease so little understood. This drawing is meant to represent a pure case of varicose aneurism, and is evidently copied from J. Bell’s work on Surgery, for there is only this slight difference : Mr. Liston has represented all the fingers extended ; while in the original, two fingers are partly closed. Now this drawing, which represents, according to Mr. Liston, a common example of varicose aneu- rism, is considered by Bell “ an anomalous case of aneurism" (Principles of Surgery, vol. i. p. 302.), which he could not rightly under- stand, and which was from the practice of Park of Liverpool. Messrs. J. and C. Bell 1 Sec Practical Surgery, p. 177. 133!l. both consider varicose aneurism, after bleed- ing at the arm, to exist between the superfi- cial vein and artery ; they however conceive that the lancet may wound the deeper veins. “ These ‘ venae comites' also are sometimes struck with the lancet, and then the arteiy and veins are all massed together. Perhaps the anomal- ous case related by Mr. Park of Liverpool was of this nature." It is really singular that Park, Bell, and Mr. Liston have not re- marked that their engraving represents most distinctly a canal or communication between the brachial artery and one of the satellite veins, which last seems to dilate into an aneurismal sac, and might have been probably the “vena communicans” distended. The drawing proves beyond a doubt, that there was nothing anomalous in this case; it was purely an example of varicose aneurism and aneurismal varix, similar to the one we have been describing. Mr. Liston could not have chosen a worse specimen of drawing for his object; indeed, it is utterly impossible for the student to understand the sketch with- out any reference, the more especially as Bell and Park could not clearly make out this case, and hence they called it anomalous ; notwith- standing this, Mr. Liston produces the en- graving to illustrate the principal features of a common varicose aneurism of the arm. Al- though we entertain no doubt that Parks case can be perfectly explained according to the views we have endeavoured to establish, still, as scepticism is a prevailing rule with many readers, I am happy in being able to present another confirmation of most of the explanations now' offered. In a recent tour through Germany, I met with a preparation of varicose aneurism (in the small anatomical mu- seum at Wursburg, formed principally by the labours of Hesselback and the Siebolds), which will throw much light upon the present sub- ject. This preparation was made in 1818, by Dr. Hesselback junior : a brief, clear, and good history of this interesting case is found in P. Adelmann’s Tractatus Anat. Chir. de Aneurysmate spurio varicoso. Wiirceburgi, 1821,a work mentioned by Mr. Samuel Cooper, in his bibliographical references at the end of his article Aneurism (See Dictionary of Prac. Surg.) ; but this erudite author has given it a wrong date, and docs not appear to have read it, otherwise he would certainly have been struck with its remarkable contents. This modest production is so little known, that we shall give an outline of the case. This vari- cose aneurism (and aneurismal varix) existed in the right arm of “ Laurentius Drescher,” and was caused by the explosion of a gun which was charged with shot: the patient lived twenty years with this aneurism, which was never operated upon. Adelmann has given an engraving of the preparation, which shows that the communication existed merely between the brachial artery and the satellite vein : the median basilic vein became dilated and aneurismal in this case, as in our own, by the ready communication of the deep with the