GANGRENE, HOSPITAL. 402 our information is very imperfect. The dis- ease has been known to present itself, and to prevail, in all regions and at all times of the year, though hot seasons and climates have, in this country, been generally regarded as most conducive to its prevalence and to its severity. M. Percy, however, regards a cold and damp air as one of the most favourable conditions, in France and in Germany, to this fatal degeneration. Other practitioners have attributed it to hot winds and tem- pestuous weather. M. Boyer affirms, that (at Paris?) the south wind, when it prevails for a length of time, gives rise to the dis- ease ; and M. Richerand mentions having observed, in his morning visits to the St. Louis hospital of that city, wounds attacked with this malady, when on the previous evening the weather had been stormy. Dr. Dupuy, who spent more than two years in Andalusia, says that every time the solano blew in that province, as it very frequently does, cases of hospital gangrene occurred; and that the physicians of the country affirmed, that that wind produced the same conse- quence in persons under treatment at their own houses, and who did not breathe the air of hospitals. M. Fodere concurs with M. Delpech in thinking that the state of the at- mosphere cannot alone suffice to produce this disease, whether it be hot or cold, dry or moist; but that in certain conditions it may be a powerful adjuvant to the action of the nox- ious miasmata of the air of wards in which a great number of patients are collected. It is probable, that when the condition of the at- mosphere is such as to discourage free venti- lation, this in itself will have a tendency, if not to engender, at least to promote the dif- fusion, and to aggravate the character of the disease. From the frequent occurrence of hospital gangrene in military and naval service, it is very desirable to mark the predisposing and modifying circumstances which are then brought into play, singly or combined, in less or greater number. The diet, as re- spects its quality and its quantity, the suffi- ciency or insufficiency of the clothing, and the amount of exposure to the noxious in- fluences of the weather ; the success that has attended the military operations, and the con- sequent elevation or depression of spirits, prevailing among the troops; these, and other circumstances operating on the patients pre- vious to the reception of the injuries which subsequently become the seats of hospital gangrene, may be supposed in many instances to prepare the way for the occurrence of that disease, and to modify very considerably the characters it exhibits when it does occur ; but, on the whole, the probability seems to be, that a greater share of importance has been attributed to these circumstances than properly belongs to them. Dr. Trotter connected the occurrence of hospital gan- grene in the navy with habits of intem- perance ; Mr. Geddes comprehends want of animal food along with change of climate as being probably “ both sufficient and pow- erful causes for rendering the system obnox- ious to this description of disease.” Other circumstances, arising subsequently to the re- ception of the injuries, such as the exposure of the wounded to a considerable degree of mechanical irritation, (as in cases in which it is necessary to transport them to considerable distances,) want of proper shelter, particularly during the night, a neglect of cleanliness in the dressing of the wounds, and above all, perhaps, the crowding of patients in wards insufficient in their dimensions and deficient in their means of ventilation, &c. may in like manner be supposed to engender predisposi- tion to hospital gangrene. Exciting causes.—That hospital gangrene is capable of being produced under certain combinations of circumstances, more or less complex, but not fully understood, in places where it had not previously existed, of being generated de novo, according to the language of pathologists, seems highly probable. Dr. Thomson mentions (p. 486), that he has re- peatedly seen this species of sore occur in persons who had not obviously been exposed to the contagion of other sores, and in whom, of course, it appeared to have been generated for the first time; but this, he adds, is a point which, in the present state of our know- ledge, must be regarded as extremely doubt- ful. If it be admitted that any combination of circumstances can produce hospital gan- grene in one individual case, it is obvious that the same combination, operating more exten- sively, must be capable of producing it in a number ; or, in other words, that, as in in- termittent fever, the affection may prevail epidemically and attack a great many persons, without there existing any relation or de- pendence among these cases beyond that of the patients having been exposed to the same combination of noxious agencies. Dr. Thom- son states, that in Belgium the sloughing and gangrenous hospital sore appeared to be en- demial; that is, to depend on causes connected with the particular district, and to prevail most in those situations and hospitals, where the fevers of the country were most numer- ous and severe. It may here be mentioned, that M. Delpech conceived that he had seen cases of hospital gangrene arise in conse- quence of the vicinity of a case of common senile gangrene,and also from the emanations of patients affected with hospital typhus, and from those of dysenteric dejections.—p. 34. But though it seems to be true that hos- pital gangrene may occur, sporadically or epi- demically, independently of propagation from person to person, abundant evidence has been recorded to prove that it is capable of readily diffusing itself in this other manner ; and in no inconsiderable number of instances, the introduction of one, or of a very few patients affected with the disease, into an hospital or ship in which it had not previously manifested itself, has been followed by its rapid extension