295 FRACTURE. strates the contrary, and we have seen many cases in which this operation has been fruit- less, because of its having been done prema- turely before the mortification had been limited. There is but one case in which we ought to perform amputation before the mor- tification has been limited by an inflammatory circle ; that is, when the evil is just about to reach the point beyond which we cannot go farther back for the purpose of making the section of the flesh ; under these circum- stances it is obvious we have no other resource left than prompt amputation, although the success of it must be very uncertain.” I doubt the propriety of the operation in the excepted case. It is not resorted to on account of any assignable chance of life it gives, but merely because of the possibility it affords of escaping a greater danger. Such an operation re- quires, I think, a stronger justification than this. Notwithstanding the weight of authority by which the above-mentioned rule of practice is supported, it is no longer adhered to. It is still, and ever will be, thought applicable to cases of gangrene which proceed from an internal or constitutional cause. But if the gangrene be traumatic ; if it be caused by the crushing of the limb by a cart-wheel, cannon ball, or any thing similar ; by the wound of a great artery; by the excessive inflammation and tension of the injured parts ; or by any other purely local cause, as the constriction of a bandage ; in all such cases, the rule now followed is, to operate on the first appearance of the mischief, when we are sure the place we are about to operate on is sound, or, in the case excepted by Boyer, even without this. When the mortification proceeds from a con- stitutional cause, as from hospital gangrene, or Pott’s gangrene, the case is so plainly, and, as regards operation, essentially different from one in which the mortification proceeds from a mechanical cause, and is a local disease, that I think it most surprising that the present practice was not long since established. For if the gangrene be a purely local disease, as it unquestionably occasionally is, when it is pro- duced by any of the just mentioned causes, and we remove that disease by an operation performed on healthy parts ; what is there, apart from the inflammatory fever excited by a local cause which the operation removes, and the dangers of the operation itself, no matter on what account performed, to pre- vent the rapid recovery of the patient? But besides the two cases in which the line of practice is distinctly marked ; one, in which the gangrene proceeds from a constitutional cause, and we are not to operate ; and the other, where the gangrene arises from a local cause, and we have it in our power to ope- rate on sound parts, and operation is clearly indicated ; cases of a mixed character occur, with respect to the best way of dealing with which, the surgeon will sometimes experience painful doubt. The case to which I allude is one in which gangrene from any of the above- mentioned local causes has attacked the limb, the whole of which has become inflamed and tumid, at the same time that the local mis- chief, by its reaction on the system, has pro- duced fever, and constitutional disturbance, of such intensity and of such a nature, as to give to the inflammation of the limb a gangrenous tendency. The true nature of this case is, I think, this : gangrene from an external cause has given rise to a condition of constitution capable of producing gangrene from an internal cause ; and therefore the probability that the parts wounded in the operation would fall into gangrene, or that the division of the inflamed parts would be followed by phlebitis, will, I think, justify the surgeon in declining to ope- rate till the red line marking the separation between the dead and living parts has dis- tinctly formed. The case of Doyle, of which a sketch has been given, was one of this kind ; and my practice in that case was governed by the considerations which I have just laid before the reader. When the fracture is very oblique, a compli- cation is apt to occur, viz. a continual tendency to displacement, especially in the direction of the axis of the bone, which is sometimes very troublesome, and difficult to remedy. It is in fractures of the low'er extremity that this com- plication chiefly occurs, and much less fre- quently in those of the leg than of the femur. The powerful muscles around this bone, irri- tated by the pointed extremities of the frag- ments, and meeting with but little resistance from the bone, the fractured surfaces of which, because of their obliquity, readily glide on one another,(perhaps, also,irritable inconsequence of some other accident of the fracture, or of the nervous temperament of the patient,) draw' up the lower fragment, two, three, or more inches along the upper, and, if not evaded or counteracted, maintain a permanent short- ening of the limb to that extent. Sometimes disarming the muscles, by semiflexing the limb, enables us to restore the natural length of the limb without difficulty. When we can attain our object by this expedient, it is always to be preferred to permanent exten- sion, and counter-extension. We are, how- ever, sometimes under the necessity of resort, ing to these. Some degree of mechanical force of extension, and counter-extension, can be exercised in the semiflexed position of the limb ; but if much force is required to effect perfect coaptation, the limb must be extended, and our forces applied respectively to the parts which articulate with the upper and lower fragments. When we come to fractures of the femur, I shall describe the most approved contrivances for effecting per- manent extension, and counter-extension. The necessity of obviating the mischief caused by the contraction of the muscles has been felt by surgeons at all times; but those of ancient times sought to obviate it by exten- sion alone. The inadequacy of this, applied to the part that articulates with the lower fragment, while the descent of the upper is