ANEURISM. 250 tion of the Hunterian operation in these in- stances has not been encouraging. Dorsey ot Philadelphia, mentions a patient who had been wounded in the leg with buck-shot. After the wound had healed, a varicose aneurism was observed, which continued to make pro- gress. Twelve years after the accident, the veins were greatly distended from the toes to the groin ; there was pain in this region, and some ulcers situated on the foot and ancle could not be healed. The enormous disten- sion of the vessels of the leg, and the uncer- tainty of finding out the communication be- tween the artery and vein, induced Drs. Phy- sick and Wistar to tie the femoral artery. Gangrene soon ensued, and the patient died of haemorrhage from a distended vein, which recurred even after the vein had been tied. The whole trunk of the femoral artery was found preternaturally dilated ; all the veins were greatly distended, and a bougie could readily be passed from the popliteal, into the posterior tibial artery, which participated in the dilatation ; and from the latter artery the instrument could be passed into the vein, through a cyst, situated on the inside of the leg, just below the knee. In a case, in which Mr. Atkinson of York thought it necessary, on account of the large and increasing size of the veins, to take up the brachial artery, mortification of the limb ensued. “ A young man had an aneurismal varix at the upper and inner part of the arm from a wound of the brachial artery and vein. The haemorrhage, which was great, was arrested by compression ; but, singular to relate, the hand and fingers were drawn into fixed and invo- luntary flexion. In the course of six weeks, the stiffness of the wrist and fingers wore off, but the patient perceived pulsations in the situation of the cicatrix, synchronous with those of the pulse, and accompanied with the peculiar hissing noise. About two years after, a soft fluctuating tumour of the size of a small hen-egg, formed in the same situation, the pulsations became more distinct, and the hiss- ing noise could be heard in the neighbouring veins, which became greatly dilated. Upon raising the hand, the symptoms were less ap- parent, and disappeared when compression was made on the artery above the tumour : they persisted, without being either increased or diminished, when compression was made below the tumour. Although the patient ex- perienced no particular inconvenience, he was anxious about it, and consulted Dupuytren, who seeing that it was a case of false an- eurism, complicated with varicose aneurism, placed a ligature above the tumour only, acting on the supposition, that as compression below the tumour produced no change in the state of the disease, it would be useless to place one in that situation. The pulsations of the aneurism ceased at once ; but notwithstanding that every precaution was taken in isolating the artery, to avoid including any nerve in the ligature, the fingers became cold and in- sensible, and the forced flexion of the hand and wrist returned. A slight hsemorrhage occurred on the fourth day, and the ligature came away on the 13th, the wound healing soon after. The hand and fingers, however, remained flexed; and some time after, not- withstanding that compression had been kept up, the pulsations and hissing noise returned, the tumour enlarging, and the veins becoming more dilated. The collateral arteries had ac- quired very considerable size, and when com- pression was made on the artery at a short distance below the point where the ligature had been applied, all the symptoms of the disease disappeared. This circumstance showed the propriety of applying a second ligature, a course which, unfortunately, was not adopted, and the arm was amputated.”1 In the case from which the sketch, Fig. 74, was taken, a single ligature had been placed on the artery above the opening by which it communicated with the vein. The limb, how- ever, wasted, the nails became detached, and it was ultimately found necessary to amputate the arm. In two cases operated on by Brcs- chet, according to the Hunterian method, the disease returned ; in both these cases, a se- cond ligature was placed below the point of communication, and the patients recovered without any bad symptom. To these, other cases might be added, in which the application of a single ligature had failed ; the tumour re-appearing soon after, or the limb perishing from gangrene. The analogy of the varicose aneurism with the false aneurism, is by no means so close as to justify the inference, that because a single ligature will be often found sufficient in the latter, it should be equally so in the former. In the false aneurism, and especially when a sac has been formed in the sheath of the ar- tery or the surrounding cellular tissue, either the opening becomes plugged up with a coag- ulum long before the collateral vessels have opened a free course for the return of the blood into the lower part of the vessel, or when it arrives there, its current is too feeble to break up the barrier opposed to it, by the coagulated contents of the sac. In the vari- cose aneurism on the other hand, the commu- nication between the artery and vein is still kept up, by the small quantities of blood that continue to pass from the vein to the artery, until such time as the augmented collaterals restore the current from the artery to the vein, in the same force as before the ligature had been applied. The return of the pulsa- tions in the tumour, is therefore a circum- stance which might be anticipated in cases ot this kind, where only one ligature had been placed on the artery above the communica- tion. But how is the supervention of gan- grene to be accounted for in these instances ? Perhaps it may be a consequence of the mix- ture of the venous with the arterial blood, this blood subsequently circulating to the 1 Sabatier, Med. Opcrat. nouvclle edit. t. iii. p. 139.