AMPUTATION. 14-0 separates the cellular and membranous attach- ments with the edge of the knife, till as much skin is drawn back, as will afterwards cover the surface of the stump with the most perfect ease. The assistant still firmly supporting the parts as before, apply the edge of your knife under the edge of the retracted integuments, and cut obliquely through the muscles, up- wards as to the limb, and down to the bone ; or, in other words, cut in such a direction as to lay the bone bare, about two or three fin- gers’ breadth higher than is usually done by the common perpendicular incision ; and con- tinue to divide or dig out the muscles all round the limb, by guiding the knife in the same direction. The part where the bone is to be laid bare, whether two, three, or four fingers’ breadth higher than the edge of the retracted integuments, or, in other words, the quantity of muscular substance to be digged out, in making the double incision, must be regulated by considering the length of the limb and the quantity of skin that has been previously saved by dividing the membranous attachments. The quantity of skin saved, and muscular substance taken out, must be in such exact proportion to each other, as that by a removal of both, the whole surface of the wound will afterwards be easily covered, and the length of the limb not more shortened than is necessary to obtain this end. The bone, being now laid bare all round, is to be divided as usual with the saw, and as high up as possible, which will be more easily exe- cuted if the retractor, recommended by Gooch and Bromfield, is first applied for the support and defence of the soft parts.” Plan of Ledran and Louis.—This plan of amputating, as applied to the thigh, is thus described:—You are to begin by making a deep incision, which is to divide at once the skin and muscles, at the distance of three fingers’ breadth below the place where it is intended to saw through the bone. This done ; the ligature employed to keep back and tighten the skin is to be removed, and the muscles thus liberated, will immediately re- tract and take new positions. You are to keep back the flesh with a split compress or retractor, and then to divide, with a bistouri, the rectus, the vasti, and the adductors, at their attachment to the linea aspera of the femur. By this method the bone may be divided three fingers’ breadth higher than when it is cut through on a level with the muscles bound down by the ligature. Plan of Dessault.—Although the plan of amputating we have described as being that of the moderns, is claimed by the French, as the invention of Dessault, a doubt may be fairly entertained, whether his operation ex- actly corresponds to the modern plan. We shall therefore briefly describe it apart. Bi- chat distinctly states, that Dessault performed the operation “a trois terns.” According to this author, he first divided the skin and had it drawn back by an assist- ant, w'hom he aided, by detaching it from the aponeurosis with the point of the knife. He next divided all the muscles down to the bone, opposite the margin of the retracted skin ; and thirdly, when those of the superficial layer had retracted, opposite their retracted ends, he cut again through the deep ones, and then sawed through the bone. Plan of Dupuytren.—The skin being drawn back tight by an assistant, who grasps the limb, the operator is to divide the soft parts dowm to the bone, by one swreep of the knife. The superficial muscles with the skin will then retract, and leaving the deep ones prominent, give to the stump the shape of a cone having its base towards the body. Upon this base, opposite the ends of the retracted muscles, another circular incision is to be made, to divide a second time those adhering to the bone ; and, as long as any of these remain projecting, they are to be divided at the base of the cone they represent, by successive in- cisions, while the rest of the soft parts are held back by the assistant. The bone may be thus denuded to the ex- tent of more than six inches. The operator is to dissect round it, and make a track for the saw, (by which he will lay it bare still higher,) and after placing the retractor, to saw' it off close to the fibres adhering to it ’. We shall now offer a few remarks on the comparative advantages and inconveniences of the different plans of performing the circular amputations we have just described, in order to set forth their respective value. The plan adopted by Pare and Wiseman is generally considered as that of Celsus ; but it cannot be considered so good as the latter, because it omits to prescribe the detaching or dissecting off the fibres immediately surround- ing the bone. The additional precaution it includes of the application of a ligature round the limb does not compensate for this omis- sion. Petit’s plan of amputating,—the first devised after that of Celsus which will bear comparison with his, ensures,—by the double incision, (as the separate division of the in- teguments and muscles is called), the preser- vation of a sufficient quantity of skin to form a covering to the stump. This constitutes its distinguishing character and chief excellence, and makes it far superior to the plan of Celsus. But however great and unquestionable this superiority, it is diminished by the omission of the important precept of Celsus, to dissect off the fibres w'hich immediately surround the bone, before it is sawn through. At the same time, it ought to be mentioned, in justice to Petit, that, in speaking of the amputation of the leg, he distinctly directs the fibres at- tached to the bone in the interosseous space to be dissected off and preserved, although he appears to do so principally that they may form a safe lodgment for the vessels. 1 Velpeau has committed an error in attributing to Dupuytren another plan of amputating, which he lias described in his Chirurgie Operatoire. From long personal observation, 1 can affirm that the. plan of this celebrated surgeon is the one described as his.