AMAUROSIS. 88 others, symptoms of incipient organic change were manifest,—some had marked inflamma- tion in the choroid and iris, with great obscu- rity of sight, and in a few the eyes were de- stroyed as visual organs, by disorganization of the more delicate tunics and humours. The more robust suffered least, the most delicate became amaurotic, and generally the amount of mischief was in proportion to the relaxation and debility of the system. The commencement, progress, and termina- tion of choroidal disease was thus most clearly placed before me in its several stages, from the condition of simple and partial congestion, or simple functional disturbance, to the deve- lopment of inflammation in the choroid and iris ; its extension to other important textures, and its termination in a widely-spread disor- ganization. Predisposing Causes—exist in those of decided strumous diathesis, or of weak and delicate frame, with feeble circulation, either congenital, or induced by mode of living, occupation, pre- vious disease, inordinate discharges, secretions, or haemorrhages, &c. Direct Cause.—The disease is usually ex- cited by exposure to cold or damp, bright light, or inordinate use of the organ ; it is sometimes difficult to assign any particular circumstance as the immediate cause, for I have seen the inflammatory and disorganizing stages of the disease in infants, before the period at which they generally acquire dis- tinct perception of surrounding visible ob- jects. The functional derangements are often caused by gastric, hepatic, or intestinal dis- turbance, so much so that few who participate in the luxuries of the table escape them alto- gether, but have now and then the volitant muscae. The condition of impaired vision is also sometimes dependent upon and produced by the same causes, but especially by excessive use of the eyes on minute objects; and is, therefore, of more frequent occurrence among milliners, tailors, shoe-makers, watch-makers, jewellers, &c. Choroiditis, according to my experience, is much more frequent in females than in males ; it atfects most generally those of fair complex- ion with blue irides, and seldom appears after the middle period of life. Treatment.—Under this head I must con- sider separately the functional and organic conditions ot the disease, and, further, make some subdivisions, as follow :— 1. Functional disturbances : a. Muscae. b. Impaired vision. 2. Organic disturbances: a. Affecting choroid and iris. b. Extending to capsule of lens. c. Distending the sclerotic. d. Affecting the deep tunic and humours, and producing atrophy of the organ. The muscae which result from gastric, he- patic, or intestinal disturbance, are the most common, and are usually grey or dark ; they appear generally as irregular lines, or small spots, and are volitant and evanescent. In persons naturally robust and healthy, they ap- pear after excessive indulgence in food or drink, and especially when the quality of either be indifferent; loss of appetite, dryness of mouth, nausea, headach, chilliness, and rest- lessness, are the common attendants. Persons habitually dyspeptic are often affected by similar kinds of muscae, which vary in number, form, size, figure, &c., and now and then dis- appear. In either case, they result from the irregular state of the circulation, sympathetic, with, and dependent upon, digestive derange- ment. The principle of treatment in such cases is obvious, viz., to correct the error in the functions of the digestive organs ;—and I must be satisfied with naming the principle, without describing the means, as I neither have space nor inclination to enter into a sub- ject of such vast extent, and so complex, as the treatment of dyspepsia. I must, however, observe, that in cases of muscae of long stand- ing, counter-irritation, by small blisters, or mustard plasters, to the temple or forehead, is sometimes very serviceable, in addition to the general treatment. The network, or gauze, which appears and obscures vision, partially or totally, from over exertion of the organs, and constitutes the condition termed impaired vision, results from a partial or complete congestion of the cho- roidal vessels, and may occur in two opposite states of the circulation :—1st, and most fre- quently, when the action of the heart and arteries is below par or feeble ; 2dly, when the vessels are fully distended, and the action unduly violent. The general aspect of the patient, the condition of the pulse, and the in- fluence of food and position on the vision, are sufficient to indicate the asthenic or sthenic forms of the disease. When the former exists, the patient is pale, and looks wearied ; the pulse is quick and feeble, being easily com- pressed ; the vision usually improves after meals, and is relieved by the recumbent pos- ture. In the latter, the patient is florid and flushed ; the pulse is full, quick, and hard, and the local disease is aggravated by food, or by the recumbent posture. The asthenic disease is produced by much exertion of the eyes ; the sthenic arises from trivial use, or is some- times induced merely by straining or stoop- ing. In treating the impaired vision, which co- exists with deficient power, attention to the general health is as essential to the production of any permanent benefit, as attention to the affected organs ; thus whilst the organs are rested and kept from the excitement of work and bright light, counter-irritation is resorted to in a moderate degree ; the secretions should be at the same time properly regulated, and the power improved by diet, and mild tonic remedies. For example, the patient should refrain from using the eyes, except for ordi-