712 CATARACT. the lens, or cornea, or a permanent contraction of the pupil from previous inflammation, it (the state of the pupil) forms a tolerably nice indication of that of the retina. A dilated and sluggish state of the pupil being in general a sign of amaurosis or glaucoma, when that state of the pupil is not accounted for by the pressure of an enlarged lens upon the iris. Adhesions between the iris and capsule of the lens, or permanent contraction of the pupil, may, in general, be ascertained by the appli- cation of belladonna to the eye. Upon the application of this medicine the pupil will only dilate at the non-adherent parts, and where the state of the iris is otherwise sound. Ad- hesions between the iris and cornea are easily discovered by inspection. They often exist when cataract has been caused by a pene- trating wound of the eye. Several of these affections of the pupil will necessarily prevent the patient from seeing so much light with the eye as he would other- wise do. 3. Cataract complicated with Affections of the Retina. The most unfavourable complication of cataract, is that with disease of the retina or amaurosis, or with glaucoma, wdiich we con- sider to be a modification of amaurosis. In cases of cataract of greenish hue, with a dilated, misshapen, sluggish, or immovable pupil, particularly when the patient either cannot distinguish light from darkness, or can do so but very imperfectly ; and when these symptoms are not accounted for by the en- larged size and complete opacity of the lens, or its capsule, the existence of amaurosis may be considered almost certain. This opinion will be confirmed, if symptoms of amaurosis were known to exist previously to the cata- ract, or if the patient has symptoms of amau- rosis existing, such as pain in the head or eye, together with his seeing luminous, or black spots, or rings before his eye ; or if the eye, having previously suffered from inflammation, is either enlarged or lessened in size, or has become preternaturally hard or soft to the touch. The existence of bluish spots upon the sclerotica or varicose vessels are also indi- cations of an amaurotic state of the eye. It is of great importance to become familiar with the different degrees of cataract which do not prevent patients from seeing to read. For, in doubtful and complicated cases, w'hen the pupil appears to be natural, the diagnosis may often be formed by the degree of cata- ract present not being sufficient to account for the imperfect vision of the patient. 4. Cataract complicated with Affections of the other Coats and Appendages of the Eye. Chronic inflammation of the coats of the eye occasionally exists in cases of cataract. Staphyloma of the sclerotic coat, from dropsi- cal effusion within it, the consequence of pre- vious inflammation, is not uncommon, but this is a state of the eye, as has been already men- tioned, which is generally accompanied with amaurosis. Different degrees of atrophy or diminution in the size of the eyeball, are sometimes ob- served in cases of cataract; a state of the eye by no means uncommon when it has suffered much from internal inflammation. In such cases the globe feels soft to the touch. § 8. Diagnosis. The chief difficulty in forming a correct diagnosis in cases of cataract, arises from the liability to confound it with amaurosis and glaucoma. It is only in the incipient or early stage of the disease, that difficulty occurs ; for it is then only that they resemble each other. In glaucoma, as well as in cataract, there is a slight opacity, having a greenish colour, situ- ated behind the pupil. Though cataract and glaucoma, or amaurosis, resemble each other in some respects, particularly in appearance and impaired vision, yet, when minutely in- quired into, other attendant circumstances will enable us to form a correct opinion. In cata- ract, the impaired vision usually takes place very gradually. At first the patient experiences difficulty only in discerning objects, as if he viewed them through a mist, and this increases very slowly and gradually ; the degree in which vision is impaired bearing a proportion to the degree of opacity of the cataract; and, there- fore, as the cataract increases, vision becomes more and more impaired. In amaurosis and glaucoma, on the other hand, the deterioration of vision takes place in general suddenly, is frequently partial, and dark or luminous spots are seen before the eye. The indistinctness of sight increases more quickly than in cataract, and often attains a more complete degree of blindness than ever occurs in cataract. In cataract, also, the vision is in general worse in looking straightforward than in partial amaurosis, from the centre of the lens being in general most affected at the commencement of the disease. A cataractous patient, there- fore, very often sees objects more distinctly, which are situated rather to one side, than when they happen to be directly before the eye. This last symptom, however, is equivo- cal, as in amaurosis patients very often see best with the side of the eye. There is a considerable difference in the state of the vision in cataractous and amaurotic patients, from the different degrees of light to wdiich the eye is exposed. In cataract the patient sees best in an obscure dull light, from the dilatation of the pupil which then takes place ; wdiereas in amaurosis, vision is best in a clear bright light, this being required from the di- minished sensibility of the retina. Cases of incipient amaurosis are in general accompanied with several other symptoms,— such as headache, flushing of the face, pain in the eyes, and derangement of the digestive organs,—symptoms which are rarely met with in cases of cataract, except where it is compli- cated with other diseases.