APOSTASIS. 3.50 bat, De la fissure a l’anus, et de sa cure radicale par le moyen du sphincterotome. Ann. de la Med. Phy- siol. Paris, 1833. Velpeau, Dilatation de l’anus. Diet, de Med. Paris, 1833. Roche et Sanson, Nou- velles elemens de Pathol. Med. Paris, 1828. Cases of malformation and imperforation of the anus will be found in most periodical publications. The reader is referred to the following :—Bai/lie's Engravings, Fasc. 4. tab. 2. Medico-Chir. Journal, vol. i. London, 1816. Beauregard, Journ. de Med. i. 66. Hist, de l’Acad. des Sc., 1752, )). 113. Hochsteller, in Med. Wochenblatt, 1780, no. 18. 1783, no. 19. Kretschmar, in Horn’s Archiv. i. B. p. 350. Dumas, Rer. Period, de la Soc. de Med. t. 3. no. 13. L'Eceille, Rap. des Travaux de la Soc. Philom., vol. i. p. 145. Murray, Diss. Atresis Ani vesicalis. Ups. 1794. Act. Nat. Cur. Obser. 24 in vol. 8. Obser. 11 in vol. 9. Roestel, Mursinna's Jour, die Chir. 1. B. p. 547. Remarques sur les differens vices de conformations que les enfans apportent en naissant, par Petit, Mem. de l’Acad. Roy. de Chir. Wrisberg, De praeternaturali, et raro intestini recti cum vesica coalitu, et independente ani defectu. 4to. Gott., 1779. Lancet, vol. i. p. 434. {John Malyu.) ANUS, ARTIFICIAL. This term is often confounded with Anus, Preternatural. Strictly speaking, the artificial anus can only he formed by the express intervention of the surgeon; as in the cases described in the pre- ceding article, or when, in the operation for relieving an incarcerated portion of intes- tine, he discovers that the bowel has sustained too much injury to be safely returned. Un- der the latter circumstances, he may prefer making an opening into the intestine itself, and in this sense also the anus is said to be artificial. But it may be also formed acci- dentally, as in wounds of the abdomen, or when the intestine has given way spontaneously, and adhesions are formed to the abdominal walls, all round the opening. As both these terms are inaccurate, we shall refer the reader to the article Fistula, Intestinal. AORTA, (See Arteries, Diseases of). APHERESIS, or APH^RESIS, (Anb, ‘ from,’ and alpsaig, ‘ taking away.’) Hippo- crates employed this word to designate the removal of a part of the body; in a more precise sense, it has been applied to the re- moval of parts by operation, or to that de- partment of surgery which treats of such operations. It also represents the opposite or counter-sense of the term ‘ Prothesis.’ APONEUROSIS, from Att'o, ‘ from,’ and vivoov, ‘ nerve ;’ the ancients imagining these webs to be expansions of the nerves. Aponev- rose, Fr. Flesche, Ger. This name is given to a class of inextensible membranes, of a bright silvery hue, and fibrous texture. Apo- neuroses present various degrees of density, being in many places as fine as the cellular tissue itself; whilst in others it seems to pass into tendinous expansions, or strong fibrous bands, which may be considered as extensions of the osseous skeleton. They form an en- velope for the entire body, and are therefore co-extensive with the external integument, with which they are connected by numberless prolongations : they also envelope the mus- cles, sending prolongations between their fibres, and even sometimes forming complete interruptions in the course of their length. Although the term has received so extensive a signification in common language, a differ- ence is recognized; the general attenuated webs lying beneath the skin, as well as in other situations, being called fascia, while the denser flat webs which envelope some of the powerful muscles, and furnish them with attachments to bones, are distinctively called aponeuroses. They present a vast number of septa, forming, as it were, chambers for the muscles ; thus isolating them completely from each other, and maintaining them in their proper situations, while they also support them in their contractions, or moderate their violence. In some situations they are pro- vided with tensors, as in the upper and outer part of the thigh ; in others, they are cush- ioned on fat, to moderate their tension, as in the palmar and plantar fasciae. Much, there- fore, of the power of the muscles, and of their uniformity in action, depends on these fibrous envelopes ; the great vessels and nerves are also indebted to them for protection, while the venous and lymphatic circulation is assisted by the constriction, which they exercise under certain circumstances. Strong and unyielding, in inflammations of the cellular tissue beneath them, their resist- ance is the cause of the excessive tension, and long confinement of the pus, so common in parts where they are strong and numerous, The surgeon should therefore be well ac- quainted with the situations of the various aponeuroses, in order to be able to act with judgment, promptitude, and effect, in liber- ating matter when once formed, which other- wise would remain pent up, disorganizing the fibrous sheaths which opposed its progress towards the surface, or burrowing through and separating important parts in search of an outlet, and affecting, seriously and permanently, the usefulness of muscles, tendons, &c. When no issue is afforded, the vitality of these ex- pansions being low, they soften and die, becoming riddled with holes, or sloughing more or less extensively. The same obser- vations will of course apply to extravasations of whatever kind they may be. When these fluids are left to find distant openings by cir- cuitous routes, scattered abscesses and fistu- lous tracks are formed, which will require numerous counter openings. When suddenly and forcibly stretched, they are liable to be torn, like the tendons, but if the extension be induced slowly, they grow thin and fray, allowing hernia; of their con- tents ; when once in this state, their want of elasticity prevents their perfect recovery. Eventrations of this description occur from Ascites and Pregnancy. The author of this article saw the displacement of the biceps humeri arise from this cause. APOSTASIS, (fiiro, and Verrq/u, ‘ I stop.’)