578 CALCULUS. of its salts may frequently be pressed out of the tubuli, or radiated tissue of the kidney, and aggregations of these particles are occa- sionally observed clogging up the tubuli; so that it is not merely in the pelvis or recepta- cle, but in the substance of the kidney itself that the deposition of solid matter takes place. Gravel is the term applied to urinary con- cretions of small size, that are passed from the kidney into the bladder, and thence expelled within a brief period. Such concretions pre- sent great varieties ; only two of them, how- ever, are at all common ; those of the lithic acid and of the triple phosphate ; and of these the lithic acid are out of all propor- tion the most frequent ; in fact, if we were to exclude some particular districts in which the oxalate of lime concretion is common, as around Bristol and Wuerzburg, about nine- teen in twenty cases of gravel would be found to consist of the lithic acid kind. As of by far the most frequent occurrence then, and consequently of much the most import- ance, let us briefly review the circumstances attending an attack of lithic acid gravel, the circumstances preceding which have been already detailed. Symptoms.—It is a remarkable circumstance, but one which had frequently been observed, that just before unequivocal evidence is afford- ed of the deposition of calculous matter within the kidney, the urine which had long been ob- served to deposit freely, ceases to let fall any sediment as it cools. Instead of this outward symptom of deranged renal function, the urine is secreted in diminished quantity, and even higher coloured than heretofore, and sym- ptoms of general constitutional disturbance also make their appearance : — the appetite fails, the tongue is furred, the bowels are constipa- ted, the skin is hot and parched, the pulse is increased in force and frequency, there is restlessness, head-ache, thirst, &c.,—in a word, the symptoms of simple fever are developed. After a day or two, gritty particles very commonly make their appearance in the urine. As they come aw'ay, these are apt to excite sharp scalding pains, higher or lower in the course of the urinary passages. So long as they remain lodged in the pelvis of the kid- ney, indeed, they occasion little uneasiness beyond a sense of weight; but the moment they have fairly entered the ureter, if they are of any size, the pain they excite often ac- quires a character of great intensity, so that a strong man in a paroxysm of nephritic colic, or calculus making its way dozen the ureter, gene- rally becomes helpless as a child ; he quivers with agony, big drops of sweat burst from his forehead, he becomes sick, and the contents of his stomach are discharged by vomiting. The pain from the part more particularly affected shoots at intervals, like a cramp, down into the bladder and groin, along the penis and front of the thigh, and the testis of the affected side is retracted towards the inguinal ring. During the fit there is farther a frequent desire to make water, which is always accom- plished with difficulty, and with a severe extension of the pain to the extremity of the member. By and by the urine is verv commonly tinged with blood; and when this occurs to any extent, small coagula, or fibrinous clots, are voided with gritty particles adhering to their surface. These symptoms continue with remissions and exacerbations more or less marked, for a variable length of time ; sometimes they are relieved suddenly, at other times they die away by degrees. The most favourable termination of the fit is when a quantity of gritty particles, or one or more concretions, are voided with the urine. The symptoms attending the generation, and especially those accompanying the pas- sage to the urinary bladder of gravel or renal calculi generally, do not differ in any material respect from those which have now been de- scribed as marking the formation and progress of a concretion of lithic acid. But the differ- ent circumstances under which various con- cretions belonging to each of the two great classes into which all depositions from the urine may be divided, necessarily impress considerable variety on the kind of treatment adapted to these. In the one class the writer would arrange concretions of the lithic acid and the lithates, of the oxalates, of cystine or cystic oxide, and of the uric or xanthic oxide ; in the other, he would place the calculi formed by the phos- phates. The state of system connected with which the whole of the calculi included in the first of these classes are engendered, has much in common ; and though certain parts of the treatment especially adapted to the occurrence of lithic concretions, may prove of less avail in those cases in which the oxalates and animal oxides are deposited, still they will not prove prejudicial, and may even do as much good as any plan that can be followed. In those cases in which the phosphates are deposited, how- ever, matters are different, and the treatment requires in almost every particular to be dif- ferent. Treatment.—In treating a fit of renal cal- culus rationally, it is therefore imperative on us to have an eye to the circumstances that have preceded the attack, and to make sure of the conditions and qualities of the urine that are associated with it. Supposing the lithic acid and the lithates to have been for some time habitually deposited, and to be still precipitated during the fit, we have several clear indications of treatment before us, happily for the most part of easy accom- plishment. These are, First, to lessen the quantity of the lithic acid elaborated by the kidney ; Second, to increase the dissolving pow'ers of the urine by adding to its auan- tity ; Third, to augment the solubility oi the lithic acid as it is formed by securing its com- bination with an alkaline base; and Fourth, to attempt the expulsion and solution of the concretions or calculi already formed. I. The most effectual means of lessening the