357 ARGEN'TI NITRAS. the degree of compression of the eye re- quired for the purpose of securely fixing it, occasion, in an acutely inflamed state of that organ, the most intense anguish. Hitherto I have confined my remarks to the more acute forms of inflammation of the membrane of the aqueous humour, but there is a chronic and also a strumous variety of the disease, to which it will be necessary to refer. 1 have had occasion to witness a state of eye which has continued for a considerable time, and in which there have been no acute symptoms whatever. There has been a faint blush around various parts of the cornea,—in some places extending quite to its margin, in others, terminating a little anterior to its bor- der ; a few large trunks within the sclerotica have proceeded from the periphery of the globe at its directly upper, lower, and lateral parts, forming an interrupted and faintly marked and festooned vascular zone in that situation. There has also been a nebulous state of some part of the membrane of the aqueous humour, but no definite lymph-like patches, no pain in the eye or forehead, and no intolerance of light. Sometimes the an- terior part of the eye assumes an appearance of undue plenitude, but this is by no means of frequent occurrence. This state of things (which I conceive to be chronic inflammation of the membrane of the aqueous humour) will sometimes continue for a long period. Its mode of treatment is very simple,—no active measures are required; counter-irritation may be continued in some convenient situation (the back of the ears or the temple are gene- rally to be preferred) until the disease has nearly disappeared : hydrargyrus cum creta, with rhubarb, or some other medicine adapted to the improvement of the general health, may be administeredand it will be most desirable not to employ the eyes in any way requiring minute vision, nor to expose them, unpro- tected, to the influence of a brilliant light. Strumous inflammation of the membrane of the aqueous humour differs but little in its local characters from those of common in- flammation of this membrane. The disease is, however, less acute in its symptoms, and gene- rally of longer duration. Like other forms of scrofulous inflammation of the eye, it is often attended with great photophobia and profuse lachrymation. Under my own observation it has been successfully treated by the adminis- tration of the sulphate of quinine, and small doses of hydrargyrus c. creta, given until the mouth begins to be slightly affected. Coun- ter-irritation, either in the shape of an issue iu the arm, or an occasional blister behind the ears, is serviceable, or a slight degree of irri- tation mav be maintained in the latter situa- tion, by the infriction of the tartarized anti- 1 To avoid repetition, I purposely abstain from an elaborate consideration of various means of improving tile general health (such as clothing, exercise, air, &c.) in the present article. mony ointment. The local applications I have found most serviceable have been a weak solution of hydriodate of potass (six grains to the half-pint of distilled water), or the goulard lotion (prepared by adding half a drachm of the liquor plumbi acetatis to half an ounce of the wane of opium, and half-a-pint of distilled water). In conclusion, I would remark that, like all diseases which are very generally associated with derangement of the health or defect of the constitution, inflammation of the mem- brane of the aqueous humour is characterized by a great proneness to relapse, when it has once occurred, unless appropriate treatment be continued for some time after the appear- ances of inflammation have been dispersed, and unless great care be taken to prevent any undue use of the eye, more especially by arti- ficial light. (Richard Middlemore.) ARCULUS, Lat.; arceau, Fr.; Sc/iutz- platte, Ger. A semicircular hoop of wicker, wood, or strong iron wire, employed to pro- tect diseased parts from the contact of the bed-coverings, or the shock of anything that may approach them. These cradles are in common use in hospital practice in cases of fractures, burns, erysipelas, &c. Their use was once prescribed by law in the states of the Grand Duke of Tuscany; it being forbid- den to nurses to sleep with their infants un- less they protected them in this way from being overlaid during sleep. ARGENTI NITRAS, the nitrate of sil- ver. The crystallised salt is almost exclu- sively confined to internal administration. In the fused form, lunar caustic, (nitrate d’Argent fondu, pierre infernale, Fr.; Geschmolzenes sal- petersaures Silver, der Hdllenstein, Ger. ;) it ranks as one of the most generally useful applications employed in surgery. Both as an escharotic and a stimulant its effects can be nicely graduated ; the pain arising from it is in general slight, and of short duration ; yet it acts promptly and decisively, at the same time that its chemical operation upon a part renders absorption impossible. The nitrate of silver is not, however, to be regarded merely in the above-mentioned characters, since it exer- cises a marked influence, as Mr. Higginbottom has shown, in the resolution of superficial in- flammation, exemplified in the effects produced by it on congested vessels of the conjunctiva and other mucous membranes, and in the power it sometimes exhibits of arresting erra- tic erysipelas and inflammation of the ab- sorbents. This seems rather to depend on its astringent or tonic properties, or on some peculiar power exercised by it on the capilla- ries ; perhaps, in some measure, on the serous effusion and vesication it excites. It is employed externally in the solid form or in a state of solution. For convenience of manipulation, the solid stick or cylinder of nitrate of silver is securely