871 DELIVERANCE. Museum of Natural History in the Veterinary School of Jena. Jager has recorded a case in Meckel’s Archives, of absorption of parts of the foetus in the uterus of a hind. The em- bryo was denuded of all the soft parts, and swimming in the liquor amnii. Sufficient evidence has been adduced to prove, that the placenta may remain a consi- derable time in the uterus without injury to the female ; but such cases are extremely few when compared with the very general opinions of practical writers, that she is ex- posed to the danger of haemorrhage and the severe form of adynamic fever which has been observed to follow the injection of putrid sub- stances into the veins. Indeed, if the placenta putrefy, we can scarcely expect any other result: for the putrid sanies, which is formed during the decomposition, cannot be supposed to remain in contact with the surface of the uterus without passing into the veins of the organ by imbibition or absorption. We have never met with any accoucheur of much experience who has not witnessed some of the evil effects arising from a prolonged re- tention of the placenta in the uterus, and therefore regard those cases brought forward in support of the opposite side of the question as exceptions to the general rule ; and when it is argued that great injury is done in the endeavours at removal, we believe that this is owing to some want of skill or tenderness on the part of the accoucheur. Our interference, then, is regulated by the time which has elapsed since the birth of the child and the amount of haemorrhage, on the general principles before stated. Having de- termined to remove the placenta, the hand is to be introduced into the uterus, in the man- ner just described, in order to effect the sepa- ration. If it be partially detached, it is better to find the loosened edge, and cautiously pass the fingers backwards and forwards between this and the internal surface of the uterus, until the separation is complete. Dr. Hamil- ton advises us to grasp the placenta by its foetal surface, and separate it by squeezing the circumference towards the centre ; but this method is very liable to break off those por- tions least strongly adherent, and it is always better to commence the separation at one border; but, if this cannot be accomplished, the plan of Heister is preferable to the con- tinuance of efforts likely to injure the uterus. He recommends us to pierce the placenta in its centre, and separate it from the uterus by the same finger. The nails must, under all circumstances, be closely pared, and every precaution taken not to scratch or tear the uterine membrane. The separation should be made as completely as possible ; but the evidence adduced on the subject of placental absorption would induce us to follow the ad- vice of Smellie, and rather leave a portion, than subject the mother to violence in order to effect its removal. It is fortunate, how- ever, that this alternative will very rarely pre- sent itself in the practice of a skilful accou- cheur. Where the uterus has contracted very firmly, it may be necessary to give a dose of opium before commencing our endeavours at extraction ; and when our efforts cause much pain to the patient, it might be well to follow the advice of Dr. Collins,—to give small doses of calomel and ipecacuanha ; and, if there be abdominal tenderness, to put her into a warm bath. Where the haemorrhage has been very copious, and the patient is in a state of syn- cope, with a flaccid uterus, our practice must be guided by the rules given when speaking of a similar state under the head of retention from inertia. Should the pelvis be too small to admit the passage of the hand and placenta together, the hand must be first withdrawn, and the placenta brought down by means of the funis. The decidua is also occasionally adherent, but is said to be easily separated. If we have been compelled to leave some portion of placenta in the uterus, we must carefully guard against internal haemorrhage, as Leroux states that the portion becoming subsequently detached has been fatal in this manner, by plugging up the os uteri. Other symptoms must be combated as they arise, taking care, however, to keep their cause in view, and not be led by seeming evidences of acute inflammatory action to employ active depletory measures for the removal of the effects of the admission of putrid matter into the blood : effects which both analogy and experience prove to be augmented by any- thing which depresses the vital powers. Mild laxatives should be given if necessary; but, if there be abundant diarrhoea, it must be check- ed by the opium or poppy injection. The vomiting is most readily relieved by very small doses of ipecacuanha, a quarter or an eighth of a grain, repeated as occasion may require. The diet should be simple and nutritious, with a little wine ; and, as soon as the stomach will bear it, quinine may be given. Injections of a diluted solution of chloride of soda are of service in removing the feetor of the discharges. Decoctions of cinchona and camomile-flowers are also highly spoken of as injections. If the symptoms do not abate, we are justified in making fresh attempts to remove the cause : for, in several of Dr. Lee’s cases, by perseverance the os uteri was di- lated enough to allow the passage of as much of the hand as was necessary to effect the removal. Experience is still wanting to de- cide in what cases the ergot would be admis- sible for this purpose ; but there is a case recorded in the American Journal of Medical Science, for May, 1834, which augurs well for its efficacy. The case is that of a black girl, in whom the placenta was retained three days after delivery. Severe pain came on in the hypogastric region ; the pulse was 120, and very small; the lochia disgustingly foetid; and the os uteri firmly contracted and un- yielding. Fifteen grains of ergot were given at intervals of half an hour ; and immediately after the fifth dose, dilatation of the os uteri occurred, and the placenta was expelled.