603 CANCER, PHYSIOLOGY OF. $ 2.—Physiology. We propose examining under this head some of the phenomena influencing and at- tending the evolution of carcinoma,—the cir- cumstances of its origin, growth, and decay. We shall consider the different species to- gether, in order to avoid the repetitions which, on account of the similarity of their physio- logical processes, a separate examination of each would unavoidably entail. (a.) Origin.—It is unnecessary to review all the hypotheses brought forward at different times respecting the seat and origin of can- cerous matter ; the majority of these are cither so prima facie absurd, or so repugnant to the results of sound observation, that they are only fitted to figure among the curiosities of medical literature. The reader may well be spared an inquiry into speculations ascribing cancer to the atrabilis or a melancholic humour —to lymph converted into an acrid and de- structive fluid—to the presence of a gas ossessing properties analogous to those of ydrosulphuric acid—to fluids spontaneously effused and rendered corrosive by putrefac- tion—to a depravation of the nervous fluid— to “ insects or the germina of these taken up from the air by the lymphatic vessels1”—or to a virus composed of an ammoniacal fluid con- taining oxide of nitrogen in excess. Nor is it adviseable in a work of this kind to do more than mention the theories of Dr. Adams, who supposes carcinoma to be the result ofthe gene- ration, growth, and multiplication of a particu- lar entozoon (the “hydatis carcinomatosa”) ; of Dr. Baron, who likewise attributes the diseased formation to hydatids, but denies its “ animalcular existence;” or of Mr. Car- michael, by whom cancer is regarded as “ an animal fungus possessed of independant vi- tality.” Such doctrines only shall be particu- larly noticed as are remarkable for their influence on general opinion or their specious- ness. Pouteau professed that the disease is pri- marily induced by a mechanical lesion of the affected parts. He conceived that this injury, a blow for example, necessarily leads to the extravasation of blood and other vascular fluids ; that the effused blood liquefies, ac- quires acrid properties, irritates the circum- jacent nervous filaments, and thus originates a growth which in process of time becomes dense and voluminous. Hardly differing from this fundamentally is the notion taught by Abernethy, that depo- sition ofthe coagulable part of the blood is the first step in the formation of all adventitious structures. This extravasation might, he con- ceives, be the effect of an accident, or of a common inflammatory process, or of diseased action of the surrounding vessels, and take ' Justamond (p. 65) quotes a thesis by Martin Schumacher and the work of Quadrio to show that ho was far from singular in entertaining this opinion : the latter had seen the insect, and describes its length, breadth, and colour. place either in the cellular tissue, in the parenchyma, or on the surface of organs. The subsequent development and increase of this matter, when once organized, he believed to depend on its own inherent powers and upon actions maintained in itself. It is now understood that effusion of blood does not necessarily precede the formation of tumours, and hence that Abernethy’s theory is untena- ble. In 1815 C. Wenzel undertook to prove that scirrhus and induration were one and the same thing, and carcinoma nothing more than inflammation of indurated parts. If Brous- sais be believed, cancer is a result of acute or subacute inflammation, and the progress of the former is always in the ratio of the intensity of the latter ; external cancer is the product of an irritative degeneration of the tissues in which fat and albumen abound. Similar no- tions were entertained by Breschet and Fer- rus: these writers maintain that cancer in- variably succeeds irritation or inflammation, and is incapable of being developed, unless in situations where either of those states has pre-existed. Inflammation, they allege, leads to the effusion of coagulable lymph (fibrine), or of a strongly concrescible albuminous liquid into the cellular element of the tissues ; the effused matter is, according to circumstances, either absorbed or remains as an indurated mass tending to disorganization. Scirrhus they, like Wenzel, consider identical in nature with the indurations or callosities, which oc- casionally form on the confines of wounds and fistulae. The sophistry of the system of argument by which the doctrine of irritation is upheld is notorious ; but the facts, that sim- ple induration is a state distinguished by its inactivity, while scirrhus possesses in itself an active principle of increase and growth ; that carcinoma assimilates to its own nature the tissues it attacks, while inflammatory indura- tion is modified by the particular structure af- fected ; furnish a better refutation of it than any critical exposure of its fallacies. The former important result of clinical observation is confirmed, while it is explained, by micro- scopical investigation : the materials exuded in simple induration never contain any cell- globules provided with germs of young cells ; in carcinoma, on the contrary, an inherent power of growth is produced and maintained by the formation of globules containing in themselves the embryos of a secondary crop of similar bodies. (Muller.) From this error the disciples of the eclectic school easily steered clear. M. Andral, reflect- ing on the impossibility of producing any form of carcinoma by exciting even the most intense degrees of inflammation in the tissues of ani- mals, on the frequent formation of that sub- stance, where no local or general symptom of irritation has preceded its appearance, and on the far from uncommon presence of cancerous masses in the midst of tissues possessing every characteristic of the most perfect health (e.g. in the lung and liver), had no hesitation in re-