CHONDRITIS. 767 CHEVESTER, identical with Capistrum, a head-bandage. See Bandage. CHI ASTER, from x‘a£itv to cross. This bandage is so named from its being formed like the Greek letter x• As a head-bandage it is employed in stopping haemorrhage from the temporal artery ; it is double-headed, about an inch and a half wide and three or four yards long. CHILBLAINS. See Congelation. CHONDRITIS. — Deriv. x°v$9°£> carti- lago, syn. In accordance with the arrangement pro- posed in the article Articulation, ulceration of cartilage has to be discussed under the head of Chondritis, thereby recognizing the principle that the organization of cartilage is sufficient to give rise to the processes of in- flammation and ulceration. As the condition of vitality in animals of low organization differs from that in those which are furnished with more complicated circulatory and nervous systems, so in carti- lage and similar tissues the processes of nutri- tion and absorption in health, and their modi- fications in disease, are much less actively carried on than in more complex structures. Thus we know nothing of acute chondritis as a disease per se, or of its symptoms before ul- ceration has commenced, and it remains un- complicated by articular orteitis, or synovitis. That such a disease does exist, however, the recent microscopic observations of Mr. Liston have placed beyond question. We know also that the cartilages of an ar- ticulation which has suffered from acute ar- thritis freely admit fine size injection. Sir B. Brodie and others have also seen vessels in- jected with red blood passing through the substance of the cartilage. This is all we know of the pathology of simple chondritis ; for it is, to say the least, very doubtful, whether the softening of cartilage described by Bichat as occurring in some cases of dis- ease of the hip-joint, is the result of primary disease of the cartilage. It would appear also that the hypertrophy, atrophy, and softening of cartilage, should be regarded rather as lesions of nutrition, than as consequences of inflammation. In the forty-eighth volume of the Edinburgh Medical and Surgical Journal, Mr. Gulliver describes some preparations pre- served in the museum of the army medical department at Chatham ; among these are specimens of hypertrophy, atrophy, and soft- ening of cartilage, and he considers that “these changes appear to originate in this tissue, are often long confined exclusively to it, and are probably altogether independent of inflammatory action.” Otto and some others have regarded ossification of cartilage as a proof of pre-existing chondritis ; but it will probably appear unlikely that changes, whijph in the majority of cases are merely the result of advancing age, should be either uni- 12 forndy or frequently preceded by inflamma- tory action. In some cases, however, this opinion may be correct ; as when after in- flammation of the perichondrium, the effect of syphilis or mercury, ossification takes place in the cortal cartilages ; or when after chronic arthritis ossification and ebumation of the diarthrodial cartilage follows. It would be absurd to say any thing on the treatment of a disease whose existence wre have no means of determining, in the present state of our knowledge. It is fortunate, however, that here, as in most other cases where diagnosis is extremely difficult, it is of secondary importance — perfect rest, wdth attention to the state of the general health being the chief indications for treatment in the incipient stages of all diseases of the joints. We pass, therefore, to the subject of ulcera- tion, and as the pathology of this process has been discussed as far as is thought consistent with the plan of this work in the article Ar- ticulation, it is only necessary to state our belief in the vital endowments of cartilage, and its power of self absorption. Fully ad- mitting this, however, it is still probable that the ulceration of cartilage is far more fre- quently dependent on extension of disease from the bone or synovial membrane, than from primary disease of the cartilage itself, though it remains to be proved that the pro- cess is the result of the agency of the synovial membrane, or of any growth or production from it. It is also probable that some of the changes observed in cartilage are the result of the transudation of fluid from the synovial cavity. Sebastian and Schumer of Groningen have carried this opinion to great extremes. The latter, in his work, “ De Cartilaginum Articularium ex Morbis Mutatione,” appears to regard this as the sole cause of softening and apparent ulceration. Ulceration of cartilage may take place in several joints simultaneously, or be confined to one alone. It occurs, as a primary disease, most frequently in adults under thirty years of age, and in children before the age of pu- berty. We have no statistical data as to the sex most usually the subject of this disease ; but it is clearly determined that a large ma- jority of its victims have that peculiar con- dition of the system designated by the terms struma, or scrofula.—It is occasionally re- ferred to local injury, or exposure to cold, and frequently exists in combination with gout, rheumatism, or syphilis, but very often there appears no assignable cause for its occurrence. Pain is the first symptom ; it occasionally sets in severe and violent, but is more frequently slight and intermitting ; sometimes confined to the joint affected; at others referred to a distant point. This pain is much increased by any sudden jar of the limb, or any considerable motion of the af- fected joint, especially by bearing the weight of the body on the limb, or in any other wray causing pressure of the articular surfaces