CALCULUS. r.TT lycopersieum,) of which many individuals are | passionately fond ; and the leat-stalk of the rhubarb plant, (Rheum palmatum,) which in the spring and early summer months is con- sumed in large quantities made into pies and puddings by the community at large in Eng- land. It is only lately that we have any accurate knowledge of the oxalate of lime occurring as a deposit from the urine. Dr. Prout, indeed, mentions one case in which he had observed this salt to be precipitated from the urine 1; but for the most complete account we have of this circumstance, we are indebted to Mr. Henry Brett, who, among his excellent obser- vations on urinary deposits, contained in the seventeenth volume of the London Medical Gazette, has published the particulars of the case in which it occurred. The subject of observation was a man 35 years of age, who had been employed of late in sedentary occu- pations. Somewhat more than twelve years before, he had attempted to raise a heavy weight in each hand in a constrained position, and had felt something give way in his loins, and then passed bloody urine for several months. Up to the time of observation, he continued subject, upon making any particular exertion, to a discharge of bloody mucus in his urine, mixed with an amorphous deposit. In November, 1835, he had these symptoms in an unusually violent degree, attended with extreme pain in the lumbar region, but none in the course of the ureters. The urine at this time was of a dark reddish brown colour, and opaque; its specific gravity was remarkably high, 1.060, and it showed an acid re-action which it did not lose for several days. Left at rest for twenty hours, it let fall a deposit of a greyish brown colour, the supernatant liquid still continuing somewhat turbid. Filtered, the fluid that passed through was of a rich claret colour, and perfectly transparent. The insoluble part detained by the filter after being repeatedly washed was still of a greyish brown colour. It dissolved readily in dilute nitric acid assisted by heat, the solution giving no indication of lithic acid or a lithate. Incine- rated, it became blackened and passed rapidly into bulky white ash, which was soluble in muriatic acid with disengagement of carbonic acid. This acid solution boiled and then treated with an excess of ammonia remained clear; a little oxalate of ammonia, however, instantly caused a copious precipitate. The clear fluid was found to contain some albumen, freed from which by boiling and filtration it did not differ from healthy urine in colour. Unquestionably deposits of the oxalate of lime will be found to occur much more fre- quently than they have yet been imagined to do, when the urine comes to be more a matter of enlightened attention than it is at present, and when the members of the profession at large think it worth while to call up the few chemical principles, and the small share of 1 Inquiry, p. 153. VOL. I. manual dexterity required to examine the urine of their patients for themselves. Un- mingled with other substances, as in the case just referred to, a deposit of oxalate of lime from the urine is probably a rare occurrence ; there can be little doubt, however, but that a portion of oxalate of lime frequently occurs among the number of heterogeneous matters comprised in amorphous urinary sediments. Most of those w'ho have been in the habit of examining the nature of these deposits chemi- cally, have detected it from time to time, in company especially with the amorphous lithic acid sediment ; though it would appear to have been frequently confounded with the lithate of lime, from which it may always be distinguished by its complete insolubility in boiling water, which takes up the lithate of lime readily. The circumstances that may be supposed likely to lead to the state of urine in which the oxalic acid is thrown down in combination with an earthy base, and that consisting of lime, are in all probability intimately con- nected with those which lead to the deposi- tion of lithic acid. The medical treatment, in such a state of things, would be conducted on the same general principles which guide us in treating the lithic diathesis. The antiphlogistic regi- men in moderation, alterative doses of chloride of mercury or of blue pill, occasional aperients, in which a neutral purgative salt of a vegetable acid formed an ingredient, and a course of the alkaline bicarbonates, continued for some time, would be the proper medicines. Should an oxalic deposit from the urine be observed to take place whilst any of the vegetables which contain oxalic acid was habitually used as food, it would of course be imperative on the party whose urine presented the peculiarity in question, to give up that article immedi- ately. RENAL AND VESICAL CALCULI. We now proceed to examine the phenomena that accompany the deposition of one or other of these little-soluble substances in some point in the course of the uropoetic organs, the consequences of the presence of the foreign bodies thus engendered, and the means we possess of removing them from the system. Renal calculi of the lithic acid.—In speaking particularly of the different kinds of sedi- mentary urine, it has been stated that the deposit was liable to take place as well within the body as without. The situa- tion in which this internal deposition takes place, may be said (except in those cases in which foreign bodies are introduced into the bladder) to be all but invariably the body and pelvis of the kidney. The natural nuclei of urinary calculi of every description are engendered in the kidney, and were there not something wrong at the moment the urine is generated, we should never have a nucleus. In aggravated cases of the lithic diathesis, crystalline particles of the lithic acid or one