405 GANGRENE, HOSPITAL. that poultices never failed, if applied but for forty-eight hours, to occasion haemorrhage,—■ Mr. Motfat adds : “ Blood-letting on the first accession of fever, with a strict antiphlogistic regimen, and constant confinement to bed, were then adopted, and with much more suc- cess than the former and, after adverting to some trials of the treatment by nitrous fumigation, he states that he “ again returned to the antiphlogistic plan with increasing con- fidence, being convinced more and more daily of the whole mischief lying in excessive ex- citement from the stimulus of contagion, which can only he brought down by blood- letting and other evacuations, by cold appli- cations to the part itself, strict confinement to a recumbent posture, cooling regimen, and the mildest dressings.” We may be allowed to avail ourselves of this occasion to remark how much science is indebted to naval sur- geons, for the admirable descriptions they have given of hospital gangrene, as it has shown itself in this service, in various parts of the world, and particularly to Dr. Trotter, for the pains he took in obtaining and recording these descriptions. The practice of blood-letting, both general and local, in this disease, as well as in erysi- pelas, was long held in apprehension, not only from the dread of its effects upon the consti- tution, but also from the supposed risk of the solution of surface produced by the operation becoming a fresh seat for the destructive pro- cess. The experience of the last thirty years, relative not only to the employment of gene- ral blood-letting in erysipelas and in hospital gangrene, but even to the detraction of blood by punctures, and by the application of leeches to the inflamed parts themselves, have tended to remove in a great measure, these appre- hensions. Dr. Boggie, in remarking that he sees no real objection to the local detraction of blood in this disease by cupping and scari- fying, as recommended by Dr. Trotter, says ; “ The danger of the punctures becoming gan- grenous appears to me not very great; the same objection has been made to general blood-letting; but though I have bled many in this disease, I never saw a single instance of gangrene supervening to the operation.” And to the same purpose, Mr. Blackadder, while professing the strongest conviction that recourse to venesection will seldom, if ever, be found absolutely necessary in this disease, expresses his belief that when proper precau- tions are taken, the danger of the disease supervening upon the wound made by the lancet, may be certainly avoided, “ as has been proved by experience,” he adds, “ in numerous instances.” Dr. Hennen gives a very agreeable account of the beneficial ef- fects which resulted from the employment of blood-letting, as practised during the latter part of the Bilbao epidemic, and of its immu- nity from mischievous consequences. “ A favourable case for venesection at length pre- sented itself; the result was strikingly advan- tageous, and the practice became general; indeed the very patients themselves implored the use of the lancet, and from that period to March following we used no other remedy, either as a cure or preventive. If it was neglected on the appearance of an inflamed ring around a sore, attended with violent throbbing pain, and a foul bottom smeared with unhealthy pus ; or if full and early blood-letting was not employed when redness, pain, tension, and bounding pulse occurred, in a case of suspicious stump already healed, gangrene assuredly took place. Much to our surprise,” Dr. Hennen adds, “ we never ob- served any of the lancet wounds assume a gangrenous appearance, although previously, in almost every other instance, the slightest puncture festered.” There can be no doubt that wounds in- flicted in bleeding for different inflammatory diseases, have often become the seats of hos- pital gangrene during the prevalence of that disease, so as to lead to the suspicion of the wound having been made by a lancet which had previously been employed for opening abscesses of infected persons, or in some other way capable of communicating infection. But the same occurrence has been known to take place after the employment of lancets to which no such suspicion could attach. The continuance in a healthy state, therefore, of wounds of this kind, when inflicted with a view to the treatment of hospital gangrene itself, may, one should think, be regarded as some indication of the beneficial influence of the remedy upon the constitution; as seeming to show that it not only checks the progress of the disease in the part which it already occupies, but at the same time renders other parts less susceptible of being affected. The only notice which we have found of the practice of venesection being had recourse to in any of the Indian epidemics that have been recorded, is the following by Mr. Leslie, in his account of the disease as it prevailed in Prince of Wales’s Island. “ Towards the end of February a case occurred, which afforded a favourable opportunity of trying the effects of bloodletting. The patient was stout and robust, the sloughing sore situated exactly on the ligamentum patellas, and the joint felt somewhat hot and swollen : much pain was experienced. Twenty ounces of blood were taken away, the coagulum of which was firm, but showed no buff. In three days the sore became clean, and the man recovered. Seve- ral other cases, in which the febrile action ran high, were moderately bled, to the extent of eight, ten, and twelve ounces, in none with any bad effects; even in some who derived no ultimate benefit, temporary relief was ob- tained from a permanent sense of throbbing. In the use of this remedy,” adds Mr. Leslie, “ though likely to prove beneficial at the onset, where much febrile action is present, and before the patient’s strength is reduced, the greatest caution must be observed.” We cannot help thinking, that if this remedy had been more boldly employed, particularly in