497 BLOOD-LETTING. superficial veins, thus causing them to become turgid, but not to produce the cessation of the pulse at the wrist. The bandage should be applied flat on the front of the arm, and after being wound once round it, should be tied on its outside. The arm is then allowed to rest in a semi-flexed position on the bed, or on the patient’s knee for a few moments, while the surgeon takes his position, and opens his lancet. He then lays hold of the patient’s arm, applying the thumb of his left hand on the vein, so as to fix it firmly, and rest- ing his right hand, armed with the lancet, on the patient’s arm, he punctures the vein in a somewhat oblique direction, carrying on the point of the lancet, until the inci- sion is of a sufficient size to allow of the free flow of the blood. In this, there are two movements, one of puncturing, and one of incising. The thumb is then removed, and the limb is supported in such a manner as to direct the flowing blood into the basin pre- pared for its reception. The obliquity of the incision is important, particularly where the veins are small or deep-seated, to prevent failure of the operation or the occurrence of ecchymosis. If the bandage be properly applied, and with the proper degree of constriction, the puncture be sufficiently large, and the vein of ordinary calibre, there will be no difficulty in obtaining the desired quantity of blood. The surgeon supporting the arm, sees that nothing stops the stream, by changing the relations of the puncture in the vein, and that of the inte- guments, and further promotes it by passing his hand upon the course of the veins from the wrist towards the bend of the arm, or by directing the patient to work his fingers on a lancet-case, or any round substance; this action of the muscles of the arm, quickens the flow of blood through the veins. If the blood while flowing forms a coagulum in the wound, thus diminishing the size of the stream, it ought to be rubbed off with a towel. Should the impediment arise from the pro- trusion of a granule of fat through the wound, it should be snipped off with a pair of scissors, or set aside with the point of a probe. When a sufficient quantity has been ab- stracted, the thumb of the left hand is placed on the wound, or on the vein just below it; the bandage is then removed, and the arm being wiped, and the lips of the wound brought together, the compress is applied on the wound, and secured by the ban- dage, which is applied in the shape of a figure of 8, the crossings being made to cor- respond to the position of the compress. Great pressure is not necessary, and might be hurtful, by causing the veins to become tur- gid ; all that is required is to keep the com- press steady in its place. The bandage should remain on for twenty-four hours, during which time the arm should be kept as much at rest as possible, and in a semi-flexed position. If the disease for which the bleeding has VOL. I. been resorted to, be of such a nature as to require repetition, it will be unnecessary to puncture another vein, if the surgeon take the trouble of observing one simple precaution, viz. to prevent the adhesion of the lips of the wound, by anointing them with simple cerate before applying the compress and bandage. On making the second bleeding, all he has to do is to apply the ligature above the elbow, as in the first instance; and as soon as the veins have become turgid, a slight, quick blow upon them just below the wound will break up the tender coagulum that fills the orifice in the vein, when the blood will stream forth afresh ; this may also be effected by rubbing the vein from below upwards. Fig. 156. Fig. 156 represents the arm hound with its veins dis- tended. The operator's thumb is pressing on one of the venous trunks. Lancet punctures are visible at various points of the veins of this region. Difficulties and accidents in blood-letting.— The ill-effects of wounding the brachial artery, or of puncturing the branch of a nerve, have been already considered, together with many other points bearing on this subject, under the head, Arm, Bend of. We shall here ad- vert to the more ordinary circumstances at- tending the operation. Sometimes it is impossible to discover any vein, either by sight or touch. If, however, the ligature be applied for half an hour, and the arm be plunged in warm water, while the patient at the same time causes the muscles of his arm to contract, one or two will often be- come apparent, and even sensible to the touch. The plunging the arm into hot-water is of doubtful efficacy, for though it will help to render the veins turgid, it also reddens the K K