BANDAGE. 464 Fig. 148. The spica bandage for the groin (spica inguinis, Lat. ; spica de Paine, Fr.) is used as a compressing bandage to forward the absorp- tion of matter in an indolent bubo, or other glandular swellings, and as a temporary sub- stitute for a truss to retain a reduced hernial protrusion, &c. The spica for one groin consists of the turns of a single-headed roller, in the form of a figure of 8 ; in that for both groins, the double headed roller is used, and a figure of 8 described round each groin. Fig. 146, the Fig. 146. double spica bandage, will sufficiently explain the composition of both varieties. Of the bandages required in venesection little need be said. In applying the fillet above the elbow, preparatory to the puncture of the vein, it should be drawn tight enough to obstruct the flow of the blood upwards, without interrupting the arterial circulation. In the figure of 8 bandage after bleeding, (Fig. 147) the obstruction ought to take place below the puncture, and with this view it is better, after completing the figure of 8, to bring the ends of the fillet round the forearm, and tie them in front. After bleeding in the foot, a figure of 8 bandage round the ankle and instep is neces- sary. As supporting bandages, owing their value to the moderate compression exercised by them, Churton’s Stocking bandage (see p. 457) and the several contrivances into which the elastic gum webbing enters, must not be omitted. This material is worked up into gaiters, stockings, knee-caps, and belts for the abdomen and other parts, with very beneficial effects : as specimens may be seen at all in- strument-makers, they do not require further mention. Fig. 147. Retentive bandages.—Retentive bandages serve to retain parts that have been displaced from their proper situation. Under this head are comprised trusses and other instruments, designed for the relief of hernial protrusions, certain apparatus for fractures, and the bandage required as a safeguard after the reduction of a dislocation, &e. (See Hernia, Fracture, Luxation.) The use of the spica and T bandages, as temporary substitutes for more complete appa- ratus to retain hernia and prolapsus when re- duced, has already been alluded to. A very complete bandage for prolapsus ani is the brace of Weiss, the two bands of which are elastic, and cross beneath the anus, which rests upon a compress of soft sponge, or a boss of smooth ivory. The suspensory scrotal bandage intended for the support of a swelled testicle, a hydro- cele, or a large scrotal rupture, was converted by Mr. Hunter into an apparatus for retaining a catheter in the bladder, as represented Fig. 148. Two or three narrow tapes, stitched