ANKYLOSIS. 305 num, the rest of it tearing very easily by the mere motion of the tongue. As regards the incision itself, the rule is, to divide only the thin pellucid parts of the frenum; and if it be very short, the operation will be greatly facili- tated by the assistant’s pressing the integu- ments under the chin from below upwards. Generally, the bleeding is very slight, and ceases spontaneously. If the ranine artery, or others of the sublingual vessels should have been wounded, recourse must be had to cold water, strong styptics, such as solution of alum, aqua Theden, to plugging, &c. The best haemostatic, however, will be a knitting- needle heated to whiteness, as its application to the bleeding vessels will not prevent the child from sucking afterwards. It will, how- ever, even in this case, be well to abstain from suckling the child for a few hours, lest the bleeding should be renewed. If motions of deglutition are observed during sleep, the mouth should be examined, and if any suspi- cion should exist of the continuance of the haemorrhage, the examination should be re- newed at short intervals. In the grown child, or the adult, the opera- tion is performed in the same manner, and re- union is prevented by the introduction of small linen pledgets moistened in oil, bv making frequent motions of the tongue, and by washing the separated surfaces from time to time with a solution of honey of roses, &c. Several complicated instruments were in- vented for dividing the frenum, by Schmitt, Petit, and Heister; but they have fallen, and very justly, into complete disuse. Bibliography. — Platner, Institut. Chirurgise. Lips. 1745. Saure et Dubois, De Sectione Frenuli Linguae. Paris, 1755. Levret, Essai sur l’Abus dcs Regies generalcs. Paris, 1760. Louis, Sur les Tu- meurs Sublinguales in Mem. de l’Acad. de Chir. Petit, ./. L., Traite des Maladies Chirurgicales. Paris, 1774. Oehme, De Morbis recens natorum Chi- rurgicis. Lips. 1773. Courtois, Le Dentiste Obscrva- teur. Paris, 1775. .Jourdain, Traite des Malad. de la Bouche. Paris, 1778. Heister, Chirurgie Numb. 1779. Lang, I)c Frenulo Lingua;, ejusque Ineisione. Jenae, 1786. Roemhild, De Frenulo Linguae ejusque Ineisione. Jenae, 1785. Lassus, Path. Chir. Paris, 1796. Sabatier, De la Med. Operatoire. Paris, 1797. Richter, Anfangsgrlinde d. \v . K. Gotting. 1801. Schmitt, Beschreibung ein neuen Zungenbandscheere, in Lodcr’s Journal, 1802. Richerand, Nosograpliic Chir. Paris, 1825. Bell's System of Surgery. Cal- lisen, Prineipia Systemat. Chir. hodiernoe. Hafn, 1806. (Ernst Dieffenbach.') ANKYLOMELE, (obsolete), from dyicv- Xof, ‘ crooked,’ and /uijXo. ‘ a probe.’ A curved probe employed in the times of Hip- pocrates and Galen, for sounding or examin- ing wounds. ANKYLOSIS. This term is derived from the Greek adjective ayKv\og, signifying crooked or bent. Another derivation has been as- signed to it from the substantive ayicvXri, a species of javelin, or, according to Scapula, voi.. i. the girth by which a number of javelins was held together; but it is sufficiently evident that the former etymology is the more correct. In either case it is not less erroneous than it is common to spell the word anchylosis, as if its primitive contained % instead of k. Ankylosis is the condition of a moveable joint in which motion, both active and passive, is impaired or destroyed. Joints not designed for motion, such as the cranial and facial su- tures, or the articulations of the teeth witli the maxillary bones, are not said to undergo ankylosis. Nor is a joint said to be ankylosed when passive motion can be communicated to it freely, although its voluntary motion is en- tirely destroyed. Those cases are therefore excluded from our consideration in which the immobility arises from paralysis, hysteria, and other causes not affecting the joint itself, or the structures immediately surrounding it ; but it is of consequence to observe that, even in these cases, a real ankylosis may at length take place as a consequence of long-continued rest. There are commonly said to be two species of ankylosis, the true and the false ; of which the former (sometimes called also hard or osseous) exists when the opposed articular surfaces have become united by bone ; the latter, when the impediment to motion is produced by the effusion of lymph or liga- mentous tissue in or around the joint, by simple rigidity, &c. The term false ankylosis has little more than a negative meaning, for the conditions which it is employed to indi- cate are so various that the only information which we can derive from it is, that the bones forming the articulation are not soldered to- gether by bony deposit. Another distinction is drawn between uni- versal and partial ankylosis. Ankylosis is said to be universal when all, or nearly all, the joints are affected; to be partial when the immobility is confined to one or a very few. Of the former species the examples re- corded are not very numerous, and do not furnish any deduction practical or theoretical. Baron Percy placed in the Museum of the Faculty of Paris a skeleton consisting, from general ankylosis, of but one single piece of bone, and it was probably this curious speci- men which Boyer described in his treatise on surgery. In the Annali Universi di Medi- cina (1824), an account is given of a patient who, having had gonorrhoea, was not long after his cure attacked by gout and rheuma- tism, which gradually extended until at length every joint had become affected and ankylosed. The joints of the vertebrae and lower jaw were last attacked. The patient lay con- stantly in the horizontal position, and life was sustained for some years by fluid nutriment administered through a quill. In the Lancet, (vol. i. 1831-2), a case of pure general anky- losis is detailed with considerable care. Ber- nard Conner (De Stupendo Ossium Coalitu) describes another case; and in the History of the Academy of Sciences (1716), there is an