105 AMAUROSIS. endeavoured to mark tne boundaries of each form. There are, however, frequently com- binations and modifications occurring, which I have not yet worked out sufficiently to make their introduction here of much utility ; they are, indeed, like the combinations and modifi- cations of many other diseases, of such variety, and often of such intricacy, that I believe only very few will admit of distinct and useful exposition. The subject altogether is, in my opinion, far from complete, and I think it probable that further observation and experience may induce me to modify the present arrangement. I do not pretend to any merit or novelty in my arrangement of the subject,—it partakes of many that have preceded it, though I believe it does not resemble any one in toto. On the pathology of amaurosis little can be said, for little is positively known ; various morbid changes have been discovered in the retina, the optic nerve, and in the cerebral part of the nervous apparatus; but these discoveries have, for the most part, taken place at a period remote from the occurrence of the amaurosis, and we rarely have opportu- nity of inspecting the condition of these structures anatomically in cases of recent disease, therefore we cannot accurately decide upon the exact changes which produce several forms of amaurosis. Many of the changes in structure which we find in our examinations of amaurotic cases, I believe to be the effect, and not the cause of the loss of vision; this happens especially with respect to the optic nerve, which nearly always loses its natural character under continued amaurosis which has been of cere- bral or retinal origin ; the performance of its appropriate functions appears to be essential to preserve the integrity of each part; and if the function be annihilated the part usually undergoes some alteration. The result of post mortem inspection of cases of amaurosis would lead us to suppose that atrophy of the nerve was the most common cause of the disease, but I believe that we should greatly err in coming to such conclusion solely from the fact observed so frequently in the dis- section. Further, the changes discovered after death in the retina, or in the cerebral portion of the nervous apparatus, may be produced by morbid action, subsequent to the amaurotic disease ; in fact, the truth can only be obtained on these points by careful examination of these structures, during the progress, or at the com- pletion, of the amaurosis ; and our opportu- nities of doing this are so rare, that a very long time must elapse before any positive con- clusions can be formed. These circumstances must retard the progress of our inquiries, and our endeavours to perfect this division of oph- thalmic diseases. I fear that we shall not com- prehend some of the more intricate cases, until recent dissection shall have much advanced our pathological knowledge of the disease. It is true that in a great majority of amaurotic complaints, a careful inquiry into the history and symptoms of the cases enables us confi- dently to form our opinion of the seat and nature of the disease, but there are many cases which are obscure from our ignorance of the nature of some of the pathological changes. I have but slightly mentioned, or in some instances have altogether omitted, to notice many general and local remedies which have been strongly recommended by others as serviceable in the cure of some forms of amau- rosis ; the reason is, that I have tried them, and found them almost useless. As general remedies, I may mention phos- phorus, arnica, strychnine, emetics, &c.; the two last I have described as serviceable in some cases ; the former, as a tonic in small doses, in asthenic cases ; the latter, as useful in some cases of irregular circulation, with gastric irritation. I have frequently tried the influence of strychnine in cases of amaurosis, which I con- sidered most appropriate for its use, but I have been very greatly disappointed in its effects; I have not seen one single instance of benefit from its employment in the manner generally recommended. I have, indeed, tried it in various ways, externally and inter- nally, and have continued it till the involun- tary muscular contractions have been fright- ful, but without advantage to the amaurosis. There are many cases in which the power of the retina is slowly restored, when the cause of the amaurosis has been subdued ; as after concussion of the globe, after cerebral disease, or pressure on the optic nerve, the recovery is promoted, in such instances, by stimulants, as electricity, galvanism, ammonia- cal vapours, blisters, &c.; probably strychnine might aid equally, but I am satisfied that its effects have been greatly overrated, and that serious mischief has resulted from its indis- criminate use. A fair and careful employment of the vera- tria has brought me to similar conclusions respecting its efficacy. The use of stimulating vapours, lotions, ointments, drops, &c. to the eyes, or the em- ployment of pungent and irritating snuffs, may relieve a little by creating a discharge, in some cases of organic or congestive ocular amaurosis ; but they do not, as far as I have seen, produce so good an effect as a small blister to the brow. Electricity, galvanism, magnetism, &c. which I tried extensively, are feeble aids in relieving amaurotic diseases ; I have rarely seen more benefit than some trifling acceleration of recovery from their employment. The older writers on the subject of amau- rosis are, for the most part, very confused, and the vagueness of then- opinions of the disease is evident from the terms they have applied to it; they appear to have considered it alto- gether local. By degrees, however, more careful obser-