197 FISTULA, INTESTINAL. continue to escape more or less freely by the external opening’. From this feculent discharge much temporary reliefis obtained ; and in con- i sequence thereof, the inflammation and tension of the abdomen are usually less severe than ! when the wounds of the intestine have been unattended by an external discharge of fecal matter. After a few days, under favourable 1 circumstances, the inflammatory symptoms gradually subside ; the wound granulates ; in proportion as the intestine resumes its natural functions the abnormal discharge diminishes ; and, in most instances, when life has not been s destroyed duringthe early inflammatory stage, the wound in a few weeks is permanently closed. The following table exhibits the leading peculiarities of five cases of incised wounds of the abdomen, unattended with protrusion of the intestine, but followed by fecal discharge. Cases of incised wounds of the abdomen, attended with fecal discharge, but without j)rotrusion of the bowel. Stalp. Vander- W1EL. Cent. ii. Obs. 25. Colon woundec with a knife; fecai discharge. In 3 weeks the wound was healed. Frouman- TIN. Mem. de 1’ Acad.de Chir. t. i. Sword wound be- low the navel; fe- cal discharge from the colon on the 8 th day. By the 19th day a perfect cure was accomplished. Ronaldson. Duncan's Med. Com- ment. vol vii. 1780. Stabbed with a knife; colon woun- ded ; fecal dis- charge. Completely cured in five weeks. Fournier. Journal de Chir. t. iii. 1792. Deeply wounded between the last ribs by a knife; feculent discharge. The wound was firmly ■ cicatrized on the 50th day. Louis. Mem. de 1’ Acad.de Chir. t.iii. A bdomen trans- fixed in single combat; fecal dis- charge from two orifices, one sup- posed to commu- nicate with the ileum, the other with the colon. Wounds cicatrized in less than two mouths. Fecal discharge from incised wounds attended with protrusion of the bowel. Protrusion of the intestine is a serious com- plication of all penetrating wounds ; but even when combined with this unfavourable occur- rence, incised wounds attended with fecal dis- charge, may terminate favourably, without permanent fistula being established. By referring to the following table, which exhibits the leading features of eight cases of fecal fistula, following incised wounds, com- plicated with protrusion, it will be seen that in six the escape of feces was not permanent. This favourable result was obtained by placing these injuries, as nearly as circum- stances would allow, in the same condition as those already noticed, in which the wound was unaccompanied by protrusion. Thus in four instances the protruded and injured in- testine was simply returned into the abdomen ; and it is highly important to observe that the wound in the intestine, without any aid from ligature, remained in direct apposition or in close proximity to the external opening; hence, the free discharge of the intestinal contents. It is also equally interesting to notice, that fecal effusion into the opened cavity of the peritoneum did not occur. In the other two cases, which terminated with- out permanent fistula, the wound in the intes- tine was accurately closed by suture, and the protruded part afterwards replaced. In all these favourable cases it is evident, that in the process of repair, the capacity of the in- testinal canal was not materially diminished ; consequently when the early inflammatory symptoms had subsided, the natural functions of the bowels were restored, and the abnormal aperture soon spontaneously closed. The result, however, is widely different, when, from the bowel being extensively wounded, or completely divided, the muti- lated part must of necessity assume an angu- lar disposition. The projecting valve, attend- ant upon this arrangement, obstructs the course of the intestinal contents, and deter- mines their escape by the wound. Two such instances are exhibited in the table, and, in both, permanent intestinal fistula was esta- blished. But it has been already shown that much larger portions of intestine have been detached in gangrenous hernia, and yet the natural reparative powers were sufficient to restore the continuity of the canal ; whereas, in similar injuries of the intestine in connec- tion with wounds of the abdominal walls, as in the tw’o cases by Albinus and Moscati, the natural pow'ers were totally inadequate to the task. The failure of restoration under such circumstances is, with great propriety, attributed by Scarpa to the absence of the membranous funnel, which has been shown to perform a most important part in restoring the continuity of the canal after a hernial portion of intestine has been divided by gangrene. Cases of incised wounds of the abdomen attended ■with protrusion of the bowel and fecal dis- charge. T ui.i’ius. Obs. Med. 1.3, c. 20. Colon wounded and protruded; af- ter exposure for thirty hours it was reduced, and feces escaped by the wound. Recovery. Hollerius. Obs. ad Cons. Curandi, p. 17. Abdomen wound- ed by a small sword ; protrusion of part of small and large intes- tines ; intestine re- turned ; fecal dis- charge. Recovery.