514 BRONCHOTOMY. epiglottis becomes erect, causes difficult deglu- tition, and as the glottis cannot be perfectly closed, drops of fluid often pass into the larynx, exciting much irritation. It is not unusual to find the laryngeal surface of the epiglottis cedematous, the pharyngeal being unchanged. Mr. Liston is of opinion, that bronchotomy is more frequently demanded on account of oedema glottidis, than from any other circum- stance. He says, diseases of the larynx are very common in Edinburgh, and he must have performed the operation nearly twenty times, with almost uniform success, for chronic swel- ling, with urgent and threatening symptoms. In such cases then, or indeed in any, when urgent symptoms are produced by disease confined to the larynx itself, bronchotomy should be early insisted on, medical treatment being very uncertain in its effects, and often injurious. The operation gives immediate relief; it places the organ in the state of rest so necessary for the successful treatment of the disease ; it gives time for the operation of remedies likely to be useful ; and if performed early success is almost certain ; if delayed till the last stages, the observations just made on croup and laryngitis, under the same circum- stances, are equally applicable. There are, however, some forms of this dis- ease, where more time is allowed for delibera- tion, and to try the effect of medical treatment. I have seen a case, in which the duration of the disease was upwards of three weeks from its commencement to its fatal termination. Here the symptoms should be attentively watched ; and if they increase, notwithstand- ing the measures employed, it will be better to operate, even though the symptoms be not very urgent, for the reasons just stated. I shall next consider the indications for the operation. 4. In cases where strong acids, caustic, or corrosive substances, or boiling fluids, have been swallowed, or the steam of boiling water inhaled. This subject naturally follows the last, as death is produced in almost every fatal case, not by the ordinary local effects an injury of the kind is likely to give rise to, but because respiration is obstructed, from the serious injury the glottis has suffered impeding the transit of air. And further, as the pathologi- cal changes, independent of the excoriation of the mouth and fauces, are very similar ; viz. effusion of serum into the submucous cellular tissue around the glottis, many small vesicles on the surface, with vascularity of the mucous membranes, and a coating of lymph or viscid mucus on it. The usual symptoms are pain, difficulty in deglutition, and all the signs of impeded respi- ration. Leeches should be applied, calomel, &c. given ; but if the symptoms do not abate, or if they increase in urgency, the operation should be pei formed without delay ; and if the danger of the case arises only from the injury to the larynx, other parts not being seriously injured, the best results may be ex- pected to ensue. If put off long it will be probably useless, for the reasons so frequently stated ; but if the friends understand, that while it is the only chance, it is but a chance, it should be undertaken. Mr. Burgess has related two cases in the Dublin Hospital Reports, in both of which the child appeared lifeless. The operation was performed : one perfectly recovered ; the other lived twelve hours, but died evi- dently in consequence of her attendant neg- lecting to keep the wound free, by regularly removing the mucus which collected w'ithin it. Mr. Porter relates a case wrhich occurred to Mr. Adams, when it was performed with success nine hours after the accident: respi- ration being fifty in the minute, and performed with difficulty ; inspiration attended with a croupy sound, the surface of the body cold, face pale and swollen, eyes sunken and glassy, pulse extremely feeble, and so frequent that it could not be counted. 5. In acute functional affections of the windpipe. (a) Spasmodic Croup. In this affection there is neither inflammation, nor the mem- branous exudation of croup, and the symptoms are produced by spasm, not by any mechani- cal cause independent of spasm. It differs from ordinary croup, as in the latter there are almost always some premonitory symptoms, cough, hoarseness, &c., whereas in the spas- modic form the attack is always sudden and unexpected. In ordinary croup, though there may be some abatement in the most violent symptoms for a time, yet there are no perfect intermissions. In the spasmodic form the at- tack soon subsides, as suddenly as it came on, and in the intervals between the paroxysms the patient is perfectly easy, there being merely a slight hoarseness from the previous straining. This form is not confined to children, as the ordinary croup is. If this affection be properly treated, bronch- otomy can very seldom be required. But cases may occur where suffocation is immi- nent, and then, if performed immediately, it will generally be followed by the most bril- liant success. Even if the patient be appa- rently dead, if very speedily performed, it otters the most certain means of resuscitation. (b.) Dr. Albers, of Bonn, has recommended bronchotomy in a form of spasmodic affection of the larynx, occurring in girls subject to ir- regular menstruation, and characterized by convulsive cough lasting for two or three hours, till the patient falls into a swoon, or even convulsions. I am not aware of such cases having been observed in this country, and Dr. A. does not appear to speak of its good effects from experience. (c.) Under this head we may also consider the spasm of the glottis, which occurs in in- fants—the crowing inspiration of children. (Laryngismus Stridulus of Good and Ley). It is not within my province to enter into the nature, causes, or symptoms, of this affee-