258 ANEURISM. At the external edge of the anterior sca- lenus, the subclavian artery lies deep in a triangular space, which is bounded below by the clavicle, internally by the scalenus, and externally by omo-hyoideus muscle. This space is traced superficially by the external edge of the sterno-cleido-mastoid, the ante- rior edge of the trapezius, and the upper edge of the clavicle. This hollow, which is defined to the eye, contains the following parts in suc- cession from without, inwards: the skin, platys- ma myoides, subcutaneous adipose tissue with lymphatic ganglions, and veins; the external jugular, advancing on this space more or less, here dips down with other lesser veins to join the subclavian. The artery rests on the first rib and intercostal space, having the vein on its inside, and separated from it by the scalenus muscle, and the cervical nerves descending to form the brachial plexus on its outside and inclining behind it; above it, is seen the omo- hyoideus crossing obliquely. The operation of cutting down upon this portion of the artery is thus performed:— the patient being placed on a bed, the head and chest raised, and the arm drawn down- wards and forwards, an incision running above the clavicle, and parallel to that bone, is made from the outer edge of the sterno- mastoid to the anterior border of the trape- zius. This divides the skin only ; a second incision divides the cellular membrane and platysma myoides: if the external jugular vein should lie in the line of the incision, it should be carried out of the way of injury with a blunt hook : the deep-seated cervical fascia comes next, which being divided on a director, the cellular tissue that contains the lymphatic ganglions and veins already men- tioned rises a little ; it contains, also, two arterial branches—the transversalis colli and the transversalis scapulae, which may require a ligature. The surgeon seeks with his left index finger in the wound for the external edge of the scalenus, which leads him at once to the artery lodged in the angle formed by its attachment to the first rib. The vessel being carefully isolated, the armed needle is passed beneath it from its inside, and the operator, after assuring himself of its effect on the aneurismal tumour, ties it firmly by means of a serre-nceud, if it should be too deep to be properly done by his fingers. This step of the operation will be facilitated by lowering the shoulder, and inclining or turning the patient’s head to the opposite side. The depth at which the artery is found varies, being more super- ficial in the lean and long-necked. When the tumour is very considerable, this depth is still further increased by its uplifting the clavicle ; owing to this cause, Sir A. Cooper was unable to put a ligature on the vessel, after he had made the necessary incisions. If the extent of the incision be too limited, owing to the cla- vicular portion of the mastoid muscle spread- ing along the bone, it has been recommended to divide its fibres to the extent necessary : others recommend the incision to be made in the form of x reversed. Physick recommends a V shaped incision. If, from the great depth of the artery, the difficulty of placing a liga- ture upon it should prove considerable, part of the anterior scalenus may be divided ; this was done in the case on which Mr. Liston operated: half only of the muscle was divided, in order to avoid all risk of wounding the phrenic nerve. Ligature of the Subclavian Artery between the Scaleni Muscles.—In this part of the vessel’s course it is free from close connexion with any important parts The incisions are made in the same manner, with this difference only, that, internally, the border of the mastoid muscle is divided. On arriving at the outer border of the anterior scalenus, a curved di- rector, guided on the finger, is carried behind it. This manoeuvre requires great caution. The phrenic nerve runs under this muscle, and again to its sternal side are the subclavian and internal jugular vein. The index finger should, therefore, be passed under the muscle, so as to meet the director ; its inferior attach- ment is then divided, the muscle immediately retracts, and the artery is easily discovered. If any arterial branches are distributed in front of the muscle, they should be secured before dividing it; or without waiting for this, the muscle may be cut higher up. After this section, the artery may be very easily isolated. The majority of these operations have been performed with a transverse or horizontal incision, rendered, in the cases of Mr. T. Blizard and Dr. Post, slightly oblique. In Mr. Porter’s case, the deviation from the or- dinary method was more considerable, as he added to the horizontal incision a vertical one, in the line of the external border of the mas- toid muscle, forming an L flap, which was everted. Hodgson’s method for ordinary cases undoubtedly deserves the preference; but the size of the tumour, the corpulency of the patient, or other circumstances may be such as to justify the operator in modifying the method in such a manner as may best suit the nature of the case he has to treat. Ligature of the Subclavian Artery on the in- side of the Scaleni Muscles.—Here the vessel rising out of the cavity of the thorax lies close upon the spine, and covered in front by the sterno-clavicular articulation, and the in- sertion of the sterno-mastoid muscle. There is some difference in the arteries of the right and left side, both as regards their length and the parts with which they are connected. The left subclavian arises directly from the aorta; its lowest part is covered by the lung, and the subclavian vein, close upon the point where the thoracic duct penetrates it from behind ; the carotid, which gradually recedes from it on rising from the arch of the aorta, lies to its inside, where is also the oesophagus, in front; the phrenic, and pneumo-gastric nerves pass into the chest, just before it. On the right side it arises from the innominata, and is, on that account, much shorter: on its posterior