FISTULA, VESICO-VAGINAL. 234 limited to the vicinity of the urethra or neck of the bladder, have been cicatrized in a short time. When the aperture is large, they un- fortunately too often prove unavailing ; and the suture, in combination either with the ap- plication of caustic or the resection of the edges, is had recourse to. The suture, in these cases, is only employed as a means of keeping the fistulous edges in contact; and these must be previously dis- posed to unite by adhesion, either by the ap- plication of a caustic, or by paring with a knife. This operation of paring or resecting the edges of a fistulous opening in a moveable fleshy wall, and deeply seated like the vagina, is extremely difficult ; and this, indeed, is one of the reasons why the application of caustic is so often preferred. Fig. 268 Is M. Fabri's forceps ; one branch of which, a, furnished with a thin plate of wood, is intro- duced into the bladder. The other branch, b, is bifurcated, and, when applied, it presses the edges of the fistula on the piece of wood in the opposite branch, on which the fistulous edges are readily pared. Various methods and instruments have been employed for this pur- pose. Sanson thought that the difficulty would be obviated by dividing the urethra w’ith a bi- stouri cache, and then introducing his finger and drawing the fistu- lous edges downwards to the orifice of the vulva. In this manner the paring of the edges was readily effected, and the sutures applied ; but the cure was not effected. In another case, treated by Mala- godi, of Bologna, he was enabled, by intro- ducing his finger into the orifice of the fis- tula, to bring down gradually its two sides, and pare off the edges with a bistoury. M. Roux employed in an- other case two pair of forceps, constructed to hold the right and left sides of the opening. When applied, the un- der blade of each in- strument being wider than the upper, pre- sented a fixed surface, on which the edges were easily cut. A cur- ved suture needle was then passed, followed by its wire, by means of a porte-aiguille or nee- dle-holder, from the left edge into the bladder, coming out through the right edge. Three points having been thus placed, they were twisted, and protected with a pledget of charpie. The operation, which lasted nearly two hours, was unfortu- nately followed by an attack of peritonitis, which ended fatally. The methods just men- tioned, however, were only applicable to cases in which the direction of the aperture was longitudinal. Fig. 269. raring the ends of a longitudinal fistula by means of M. Fabri's forceps. One branch of the forceps is passed into the bladder; the other is applied on the edges of the fistula in the vagina. The method recommended by Velpeau is thus described by him : “ The patient is placed on an elevated bed or table ; a rolled mattress is placed under the belly, so that she may bend her thighs while she lies on the abdomen. An assistant keeps the vagina di- lated by means of a wide groove of wood, horn, or metal ; the posterior and anterior angles of the opening are divided, the former w'ith a straight scissors, the latter with a bistoury, to the extent of a line or two, in order to facili- tate the seizure of the edges on either side with a good staphyloraphy forceps, and their resection by means of scissors, either straight or curved, on the flat. The points of suture are then placed three or four lines outside the resected edges ; the edge is held with the forceps while the needles are being passed, and each point is twisted or tied by means of the fingers. If the opening be transverse, the edge may be easily resected by means of a bistoury curved on the flat, and very sharp near its point, the edge being raised or low- ered by means of a proper pair of forceps.” The difficulties attending the placing of points of suture are, however, it is to be hoped, in a fair way of being removed, or at least di- minished considerably. With M. Colombat’s spiral needle, a suture-seam can be easily