ANKYLOSIS. 306 account of a child aged twenty-three months, which became the subject of universal anky- losis. Corresponding instances are described in various surgical works ancient and modern, but it is unnecessary to draw up an exact catalogue of them, since a combination of the whole supplies us only with the fact that such things have been. Some of the cases exem- plify the effects of long-continued rest, or of arthritis ; and as they exhibit nothing more than false ankylosis, are remarkable only from the unusual number of joints affected. The few instances in which all traces of joints have been obliterated by a bony junction of the pieces of the skeleton, are very curious, and, in the present state of our knowledge, inex- plicable phenomena. Some analogy to this process may be found in the senile tendency to ossific deposit, and in the profusion of ex- ostoses which sometimes affect weakly chil- dren. Universal ankylosis is a rare occurrence, but its opposite, partial or particular anky- losis, is very freejuent. The term partial is employed when the ankylosis is confined to one or a few joints without affecting the skeleton generally; and the remainder of our article must be devoted to this form of the affection, which is so commonly met with ; that the phrase, “stiff-joint,” is familiar as a house- hold word. Before treating of ankylosis as it affects the more perfect articulations, those which are endowed with a synovial membrane, it will be convenient to say what little can be said concerning ankylosis of the fibro-cartila- ginous joints. In these joints the motion is very limited, and the transition from the nor- mal to the ankylosed condition is easy. The ankylosis is always effected by a deposit of bone, and the new bone is usually of a more dense and compact texture than the old. The conversion of fibro-cartilage into bone seems to be one of the changes incidental to old age, for wc rarely examine the body of an old person, especially if his life have been laborious, without finding exemplifications of it in some of the vertebral or pelvic articula- tions. Thus bony ankylosis of the coccygeal joints often begins to take place in women after the cessation of the menses. In the spinal column this senile change is frequently accompanied by the formation of exostoses, which project from the space formerly occu- pied by intervertebral substance, and are sometimes of considerable size. They are more common on the anterior surface of the spinal column than on the posterior, but are occasionally met with in the latter situation, where they give rise to an incurable paraple- gia, by exerting pressure on the nervous centre. When ankylosis of the vertebral or pelvic joints takes place before the middle term of life, it is commonly the sequel of an ulcerative process in the fibro-cartilaginous tissue. This ulceration may have been primary. I have seen two vertebrae completeiv separated by ulceration of the inter-vertebral substance, while the bones presented only slight traces of inflammation. More commonly, however, the bone is the tissue primarily affected, and the ulceration of the fibro-cartilage is second- ary to caries of vertebrae. In this state an- kylosis is the only cure, and its formation ought to be promoted by enjoining perfect rest. When this caries affects the spinal column it usually happens, in those cases which recover, that the disease does not affect the whole body of the vertebrae, but is limited to the anterior part, or to one of the sides. Hence a curve is formed by the giving way of the affected side. I have seen an an- terior curve produced in this way so extreme that the front part of the body of one verte- bra rested upon the front parts of the body of the vertebra next but one below it. It is a curious and beautiful provision of Nature that when this curvature is formed, a quantity of dense bony matter is thrown out during the formation of the ankylosis in the hollow of the curve, so as to give support to the column. On the side opposite to that which has become ankylosed the intervertebral substance is stretched and elongated. Anky- losis of the pelvic joints is not often seen as a consequence of disease, but it sometimes follows the suppuration of the pubic symphysis of which writers on midwifery have given a description. Ankylosis of the diarthrodial articulations, to which our attention must now be given, is so extensive and complicated a subject that those who have given attention to it, espe- cially if conversant with surgical pathology, feel little surprise at the confused and ob- scure manner in which it is discussed, even in our most approved surgical treatises. Anky- losis is in some instances a disease against which we are called upon to combat, while in others, it is a happy result which we are not less called upon to promote. From this cir- cumstance considerable perplexity has arisen. Again, the accidents which may in the sequel occasion ankylosis are very numerous and varied, and much confusion has been created by the practice of describing all these varied causes to be productive of one common effect. It is, indeed, true, that in all cases the joint is stiff, but it will be speedily seen that very different structural changes may occasion that stiffness. On the other hand, it would be a tedious labour to describe as many varieties of ankylosis as there are diseases which may remotely originate this affection. The sub- ject will perhaps be freed from some con- fusion if we confine ourselves to enumerating the proximate or immediate causes of anky- losis ; that is to say, the structural changes on which it depends. A constant reference to tissue will give us a very clear principle of arrangement, and with the view of still fur- ther facilitating the inquiry, I shall venture to adopt a division not in common use. I propose to separate those cases of anky- losis which depend on lesion of tissues sur-