EAR, AND HEARING, DISEASES OF. 18 For the operation every thing is arranged as has already been mentioned for the exami- nation of the part. The perforation is made in the lower part of the membrane in front of the extremity of the handle of the mal- leus. Polypi, encysted tumours, and fungous excres- cences in the auditory passage. Polypi spring either from the walls of the auditory passage or from the mem- brana tympani. When large enough to stop up the auditory passage entirely, they not only cause a great degree of deafness, but feeling of pressure and weight in the head, sometimes vertigo and vomiting. They fre- quently, however, remain small, and cause so little disturbance, that they are overlooked, unless the auditory passage be carefully exa- mined, as should always be done when there is anything at all the matter with the ear or its function. The polypus is a tumour, generally smooth on its surface, supplied with little blood, and insensible. The real polypus of the ear is rather rare. Dr. Pappenheim1 applies the name encysted to a lobulated tumour, soft to the touch, and In Annales de l’lndustrie, tome xii. p. 157, et seqq. Paris, 1823. 1 Beitrage zur mieroscopischen Kenntniss der pa- thologischcn Gesehwlilste. In Caspar’s Wochen- sclirift, No. 14, 1839; also Die specielle Gewebclehre des Gehororgans, &c. p. 145. Breslau, 1840. Dr. Pappenheim describes the microscopical analysis of a polypus which he extracted from the ear of a person twenty-six years of age, of a scrofulous constitution, but otherwise healthy, and who, eleven years before, had a polypus removed from both ears. The polypus which is here the question, was of firm consistence and pretty long. Its pedicle, which was not very slender, was inserted on this side of the mcm- brana tympani by a base gradually increasingin breadth. The auditory passage was completely stopped up, and a loud ticking watch, although held quite close to the ear, could not be heard. On both sides there was a purulent discharge from the auditory passages, with excoriation of the auricle, and there was great mucu- lent accumulation in the Eustachian tubes. After the extirpation there was little bleeding, and the polypus very soon became pale. The polypus consisted of an envelope and contents. The envelope was composed, proceeding from without inwards, of, 1, epidermidal cells of various shape and size, extended over, 2, a transparent finely grained membrane, under which was, 3, the corinm, consisting of pretty strong fibres of a yellow colour. Besides these there were some blood-vessels and blood glo- bules. The contents were resolvable into, 1, a fluid like whito of egg; 2, cholestcarin crystals in great num- ber, covered with a very finely grained mass; 3, epi- thelium cells of various forms; and 4, peculiar egg- shaped vesicles, differing much in size, with fluid con- tents containing very fine grains. Dr. Pappenheim also describes an encysted tumour which stopped up the auditory passage of the right ear, and was productive of very great deafness. The tu- mour was attached by a slender pedicle to the skin of the auditory passage. Its appearance, even before ex- tirpation, was very pale. After extirpation by the knife, much more hemor- rhage occurred than after the removal of an equally large polypus. On examination, the tumour was found to approach in its nature to what is called hy- groma. It was composed of a great number of lobules insensible. It differs from the polypus in being invested with an integument from which hairs grow, and in being more vascular. This appears to be what is otherwise called sarco- matous polypus. Fungous excrescences arise from ulcerations either of the walls of the auditory passage, or from ulcerations of the membrana tympani; or the latter being perforated or destroyed, the excrescences spring from the diseased lining membrane of the tympanum. Cancer, involving the internal ear or neighbouring parts, sometimes makes its appearance exter- nally first in the form of a fungus in the audi- tory passage. “ I have at present under my care,” says M. Vidal', an unfortunate woman affected with cancer of the left parotid, in whom there issues from the auditory passage of the same side a fungous tumour having the aspect of the parotid cancer.” The fungi of the dura mater, which so readily destroy the bones and make their way into all their open- ings, sometimes get into the tympanum, and from thence appear at the auditory passage. The greater rapidity of growth and ten- dency to haemorrhage, distinguish encephaloid excrescences in the auditory passages from the ordinary ones which occur there. Preparatory to any operation for the re- moval of a polypus, it is necessary to ascertain whether it be pedunculated or not, and if pedunculated, the extent, the thickness and point of insertion of the pedicle. If the poly- pus be so large as to fill up the auditory pas- sage, this information can be obtained only by means of the probe, which is to be carried in all directions round the tumour until arrested by its insertion. Though pedunculated polypi may be rea- dily removed, there is often difficulty in pre- venting their reproduction. In polypi with a broad base, the prognosis is much less fa- vourable. Pedunculated polypi may be got at, either with a ligature, a very fine scissors, curved at the points, or with a round, blunt-pointed, double-edged knife, curved in the direction of its flat side ; or, if it has been satisfactorily ascertained that the growth does not spring from the membrana tympani, it may be seized with a forceps and twisted off. Krukenberg a separated from one another by deep fissures. The hearing distance rose to twenty-four feet for a low ticking watch, which, in the case of polypus, was heard only one or two inches distance after the operation. On the external covering, besides hairs and cerumen, the secretion of which was not, as in the case of poly- pus, suppressed, there were the same layer of epider- midal cells, the same small grained mass with fibres of chorium underneath, as in the polypus. The contents were white, mealy, of a dull lustre somewhat like starch, and consisted of, 1, cholestearin crystals; 2, adipose vesicles ; 3, epithelium cells with nuclei without nucleoli; 4, rosettes of crystals of phos- phate of lime; 5, fibres; 6, fine granulary mass. 1 Traite de I’athologie externe et de Medecine ope- ratoire, tome iv. p. 65. 2 Die Ohrentziindung. In his Jahrbiicher der am- bnlatorisclien Klinik zu Halle. Bd. ii. p. 203—252. Halle, 1824.