80.5 COMPRESSION. to bandage a part for the cure of an ulcer, where support only is the object in view, an increased deposit may be occasioned around the sore, and the cure thereby delayed. Another effect of compression is the ab- sorption of parts. A degree of compres- sion, greater and of longer duration than such as is productive of the preceding effects, is capable of inducing the actual destruc- tion of parts, by causing them to become absorbed. Examples of this are daily before us; a gradually increasing quantity ot pus de- posited in the cellular membrane, readily finds its way to the surface, by the continued com- pression exercised on the surrounding parts : the walls of adhesive lymph in which yhe de- posit of pus first takes place gradually become absorbed as the compression of the distended sac increases. The structures in immediate contact with an increasing ancurismal sac are speedily removed—even bone itself undergoes a similar waste and absorption from the pres- sure of an aneurism. Bone forcibly pressing against bone becomes absorbed ; an example of which may be seen in the advanced stages of diseased hip, in which the head of the femur is drawn by muscular action against the acetabulum or its edge ; in the one case the head of that bone becomes absorbed, in an- other the very depth of the socket itself; in another its upper and outer edge, and the bone is even dislocated. The knowledge of this power should lead us to imitate this pro- cess, so as to remove diseased parts which will not be dispersed by other means. As I know not the limit of this power when properly ap- plied and perseveringly followed up, neither am I prepared to deny its effect in producing the absorption of scirrhous deposit. Mr. Young1 asserts its power as a remedy in such cases ; and the facts adduced by him are staggering. The remedy was tried ; but in other hands it failed. I have my doubts as to the full employ- ment of compression by others in the effective way in which Mr. Young employed it. It seems to me as yet deserving the attention of the pro- fession. The cases in which I have known it tried, and used it myself, were those in which cure by operation was impossible, from their advanced condition. I know not that any portion of the truly scirrhous mass was ab- sorbed, but the tumours were much reduced in size, and several were broken down into two or more portions. It may have been that the matter absorbed in these cases was only the extraneous deposit, which had not as yet attained to the scirrhous degeneration, whilst the true scirrhous substance remained entire. Still even in these cases great good was ob- tained by diminution of bulk, and so long as the pressure was employed, by an ent’ue alle- viation of pain. In order to understand so as usefully to apply compression in that degree in which it produces absorption, we have only to recollect that throughout the body, in its healthy condi- 1 Minutes of C'anccr. tion, there are organs adapted to every part which support a continuous action of supply and waste.—In some this operation is con- ducted by special organs for each purpose— but in the extreme parts these processes are in constant operation, simply, by means of the arteries and absorbents. The arteries are the instruments of deposit and growth, the absor- bents are the organs of waste ; and so long as these actions are equally balanced, so long only is the healthy condition of a part main- tained. When either of these are in excess, disease is the result. The result of chronic inflammation, is increased deposit by the arte- ries ; exhibiting itself in a variety of ways : and that growth or deposit often receiving its character, as in scirrhus or cancer, from a pe- culiar condition of the constitution, perhaps from a peculiar condition of the blood itself. When the balance of action between the vessels of growth or supply, and those of waste, is lost, any power which can restore it, must be considered an efficient means to re- store to health the part which has suffered from the loss of it. If compression be exerted with just sufficient force to lessen the quan- tity of blood sent to the diseased part, thus preventing deposit, the balance will be given in favour of the absorbents. An illustration of the effects of this degree of pressure may' be experimentally tried on an ulcer wilh callous edges, this being in fact the condi- tion of such an ulcer. The sore itself is deep in proportion to the height and thick- ness of the callous edge ; the granulations small, pale, and bloodless ; the edge horny ; the surrounding parts-, the skin, more or lers inflamed; the veins more or less varicose. An ulcer, so circumstanced, is kept up, if not produced, by the barrier, which is set up by the callous ring which surrounds it ; the blood-vessels have no ingress there to furnish the sore with flesh; the absorbents are at their work of excavation, and the sore is daily deepened ; the granulations are pale and languid ; their secretion watery. If such a sore be treated by compression on the callous ring, this will be absorbed and blood be let in, to fill up the chasm ; granula- tion becomes effective, rises to the surface, and cicatrization speedily follows. It was to such cases Baynton applied his adhesive strapping bandage. He bandaged from the foot up- wards to support the weakened blood-vessels— the varicose veins. But to the sore he applied a greater degree of pressure, and success at- tended his application. The failure of Bayu- ton’s strap arises often either from the princi- ples of its use not being fully understood -or fairly carried out. I have found that a piece of sheet-lead bound tightly down over the sore and beyond the callous edges, answers admirably' ; the compression is equal, which with strapping over the face of the sore it may not be. I usually bandage with strapping closely up to the sore from the foot, then place a piece of smoothly' rubbed sheet-lead on the sore, about half an inch or an inch