ENDOSTEITIS. 131 Causes de la Structure singuliere qu’on rencontre quelquefois dans differens parties du corps humain. Paris, 1740. Siebold, Collectio Observatiouum, Fasc. 1. A\ urzburg, 1769. Oelirne, De Morbis recens na- torum Chirurgicis. Lips. 1773. Thouret, Reflexions sur le but de la Nature dans la conformation des os du Crane, particuliere a l’enfant noveau ne. Mem de la Soc. Roy. de Med. 1779. Thiemig, De Hernia Cerebri. Gottingen, 1792. Beclard, in Bulletin de la Faculte de Medecine de Paris, tom. iii. 1812-13. Detpech, Precis Elementaire des Maladies Reputees Chirurgicales. Pans, 1816. Carombc, Ein Hirnbruch. Berlin, 1817. N'dgele, Ueber den Angebornen Hirn- bruch, in Hufeland s Journal, 1822. Martini, in Repertorio Medico-Cliirurgico di Torini, 1824. Serres, Recherches d’Anatomie Transcendante et Patholo- gique. Paris, 1832. Isidore Geoffrey St. Hilaire, His- toire generate et particuliere des Anomalies de l’Or- ganisation chez l’Homme et les Animaux. Paris, 1832. (Thomas Spencer Wells.) ENOEPHALOID (from cyKetpaXog, the brain or encephalon, and tidog, like). A spe- cies of cancer; so called from its resemblance to the substance of the brain. See Cancer. ENCHONDROMA (from iy\ovSpog, car- tilaginous). A term recently applied by Pro- fessor Muller to a form of cartilaginous growth presenting an alveolar aspect on section. The walls of the alveoli are opaque, the contents semi-transparent ; the component materials are characterized chemically by containing a peculiar form of gelatine (chondrin), and microscopically by presenting the structure of embryonic cartilage. See Tumours, Car- tilaginous. ENCYSTED. See Tumours. ENDOSTEITIS (from evSoOsv within, ootiov a bone, and the suffix trig). Inflam- mation of the endosteum1, or medullary' mem- brane of the bones. The diseases of this membrane have hither- to received no consideration as conditions arising, and to a certain extent advancing, in- dependently of changes in the bony tissue or periosteum. As was until a recent period the case with the affections of the endocar- dium, (a structure having somewhat analogous topical relations,) they have been presumed either incapable of such independent exist- ence, or if so capable, possessed of no great pathological importance, unless co-existing with change in the bone or periosteum, or unworthy of the attention of the practitioner, because no special symptoms are known by means of which they may be localised with precision during life. The incorrectness of these three notions in respect of the endo- cardium is now well known ; it will not be a matter of much difficulty to show that the two former ot them are, as regards the en- dosteum also, untenable ; and that assiduous clinical observation may render the distinc- tion of the diseases of that membrane and of 1 We retain the word endosteum, formerly (vol. i. p. 657.) proposed by us, as it has met with the ap- proval of several judicious persons. the osseous substance and periosteum far from impossible, cannot reasonably be doubted. Anatomical considerations indicate the pos- sibility of the occurrence of endosteitis as a separate existence ; the endosteum in truth is not intimately adherent to the bony sur- face ; Beclard long since showed 1 that the shrivelling of the membrane produced by the action of gentle heat or of a dilute acid, caused its separation from the bone, with a facility plainly excluding the idea of intimate union. On the other hand it is matter of ob- servation, that inflammatory action originat- ing in any of the three tissues, osseous, peri- osteal, or endosteal, quickly spreads in the majority of instances to the others. That such extension of inflammation should arise, is nothing more than might be anticipated from reflection upon the free communication which subsists between the vascular system of all the constituents of bones, coupled with the fact that the endosteum exists, not only in the tubular cavities and spongy tis- sue, but penetrates even into the canaliculi of the cortical substance. From this mode of arrangement of the endosteum, it is that numerous examples of deep seated inflamma- tion, really originating in that membrane, and affecting the true bony tissue only second- arily, are set down as instances of disease of the osseous substance alone. Increased vascularity forms, as elsewhere, an important feature in the anatomical con- dition of the inflamed endosteum ; the injec- tion is commonly extremely minute, so much so, that in some instances the medulla appears of a uniform florid or livid red colour. It is not very unusual to find blood extravasated in points or patches, and small hsematomata are sometimes seen. The stage of exudation takes place with extreme rapidity. The medulla and meshes of the endosteum become infiltrated with liquid fibrinous matter, which at first causes softening of the infiltrated tisse; it nevertheless possesses the plastic property in so high a degree, that it almost immediately becomes concrete, increases the dimensions and firmness of the medulla, and causes thickening of the membrane itself. This is best seen in cases of endosteitis fol- lowing amputation, where the medulla pro- trudes in the form of a small rounded deep red coloured mass on the surface of the stump, to such extent sometimes, as to require re- moval with the knife. When, as may be the case, the surgeon is obliged to repeat this little operation, in consequence of reproduc- tion of the removed part, the protruding mass at length ceases altogether to contain adipose matter, and is wholly composed of solidified fibrine. The contents of the cells of the can- cellated structure, if the inflammation spread to them, undergo similar fibrinous infiltra- tion. Of the ordinary duration of this stage of exudation, we are unprepared to speak with 1 Anat. Generale, p. 175. K 2