ARTHRITIS, TRAUMATIC. 396 The diagnosis of simple wounds of the joints is sufficiently easy where the wound in- flicted has widely exposed the articular cavity, but is of greater difficulty where a narrow piercing instrument has been employed. In this latter case we must form our opinion from the situation of the external opening, and its form and size compared with that of the instrument used, the course which the wound has taken, and the depth to which it is stated to have extended. In some cases, a flow of synovia from the puncture removes all doubts; but there is a source of fallacy con- nected with this symptom, which must not be lost sight of, since the synovia may have exuded from a bursa, or the wounded theca of a tendon. Nor must it be concluded, from the absence of a synovial flow, that the in- tegrity of the joint is preserved, since the exit of the secretion may have been prevented by a change of the relation between the wound of the synovial capsule and that of the integu- ments, or by an effusion into the narrow canal formed by the passage of the instru- ment through the soft parts. Fortunately, an exact knowledge of the extent of the wound is not of sufficient importance to justify the introduction of a probe, which would indeed frequently afford no certain indication, while at all times it must produce irritation, ex- pose to the danger that arises from the admis- sion of air, and break up adhesions that may have already formed. The surgeon in these cases may borrow from politicians the princi- ple of non-intervention. When the wound is extensive it may be readily recognized to have penetrated the joint by the flow, often copious, of synovia, which immediately takes place, and which may be readily reproduced, (though extreme gentleness ought always to be observed) by gently moving or pressing the articulation. At times all possibility of doubt will be removed by the exposure of the white and glistening surfaces of the articular cartilages. After the infliction of a wound of the syno- vial membrane, it sometimes, and under wise management, not very rarely happens, espe- cially if the wound be slight and air have not been admitted, that no alarming symptoms fol- low, and the parts divided heal rapidly by the first intention. This may even happen where the division has been very extensive. Thus Boyer1 relates a case in which he saw the wrist joint completely laid open from its pos- terior surface ; the ulna and radius projecting from the wound ; the extensor tendons com- pletely divided, and the hand pendulous by the soft parts situated anteriorly. He imme- diately reunited the edges of the wound, and at the end of fifteen days, it had completely healed. More commonly, however, where the patient is vascular and plethoric, where his constitution has been originally bad, or has been impaired by excess or disease ; 1 Traite des Maladies Chirurg.—Vide Plaies des Articulations. where injudicious scrutiny has been made of the wound; where absolute rest is not given to the limb, and even sometimes where none of these sources of evil are present, an acute inflammation commences. For twenty or thirty hours after the infliction of the wound, the patient seems comparatively easy and the accident appears trivial; but at the end of that period, there is felt in the joint a dull aching pain, which Begin1 states to precede invariably according to his experience, all other symp- toms. This pain, at first dull and intermit- ting, gradually increases in severity, till it becomes acute and constant, and is aggravated by the slightest motion; the articulation swells by effusion within its capsule; the sur- rounding cellular tissue becomes infiltrated, and the skin covering it is hence hot and shining, but not red ; the lips of the wound are pale and thin, and throw out a purulent serum; oedema affects the limb below the in- jured joint, and an erythematous blush some- times extends upwards towards the trunk2. The constitution now takes the alarm, and fever lights up : the respiration is hurried ; the pulse hard ; the tongue white, the surface hot and flushed ; the countenance anxious ; the thirst extreme: delirium sometimes su- pervenes ; there is incessant watchfulness; subsultus comes on; and the patient, if of feeble habit, may be carried off' in four or five days after the accident. Occasionally, the in- flammatory symptoms are less severe, and are almost entirely local; but in general, the arthritis consequent upon a wound is of very acute character. The combined effect of the distension of the synovial capsule and of the surrounding infiltration, sometimes produces such pressure on the adjacent vessels that the limb below the injured joint falls into a state of gangrene. This acute state of inflammation may have several terminations. Where the treatment is vigorous, and the previous health and habits of the patient have been good, the constitutional disturbance may subside with scarcely less rapidity than it supervened; the acute pain is mitigated; the swelling di- minishes ; and, with care, the limb is restored to its free and healthy action. In other cases, the febrile state passes off, and the local in- flammation subsides, but does not altogether disappear; the joint continues slightly swollen; and a chronic synovitis is established, varying in its degree of intensity, but always impart- ing a certain debility to the limb, and liable to assume a more active form, or to induce disease of the adjacent tissues. The arthritis becomes chronic almost invariably in those who make premature use of the joint. During exercise the pain is scarcely perceived, but when rest is again given, a pricking pain, ac- 1 Dictionnaire de Medecine et Chirurgie Pratique, tom. iii. art. Arthrite Traumatiquc. 2 Thomson states this to be a common symptom after gunshot wounds of joints. Vide Report of Ob- servations made in British Military Hospitals in Bel- gium. 3