ALVINE CONCRETION. 71 hardlv effervesces. When the solution is evaporated to dryness, a whitish residue remains, which has a bitterish taste, and is imperfectly soluble in water. Nitric acid does not convert it into any of the vegetable acids, though digested on it repeatedly. This substance burns with a slight flame, and rather like a vegetable than an animal body. It is undoubtedly of a peculiar nature, differing from every animal and vegetable substance hitherto examined. Its insolubility in potash ley distinguishes it readily from wood. It has no resemblance to any animal substance whatever. “ 7th. The calculi consist essentially of al- ternate layers of this peculiar substance, and of phosphate of lime. Sometimes the sub- stances are intimately mixed, instead of being in alternate layers. The albumen and brown matter seem to serve as a cement; the other substances are in a small proportion. The crust on the outside of some of the calculi consists of phosphate of lime, mixed with a brown animal matter. In a few specimens I observed crystals of phosphate of ammonia and magnesia, upon the outside crust of the calculi; but these appearances are uncom- mon. “ Such are the constituents of the concre- tions as far as examined. In two calculi the phosphate of lime amounted to rather more than half the weight of the whole. In one specimen the albumen separated was one twenty-seventh of the whole ; but I have reason to believe that a portion still remained. The quantity of common salt and sulphate of soda was small. I could detect no potash by the test of muriate of platinum. Neither was there any ammonia sent, or carbonate of lime, both of which I expected to find. I examined the calculi carefully for uric acid, but found none. Neither could I detect any urea, sub- stances abounding in urinary calculi. “ The preceding details are sufficient to show, that the calculi in question are of a very different nature from any hitherto examined. They are of a much more insoluble nature than urinary calculi ; indeed, no solvent ex- ists, except of a nature so corrosive that it could not be applied.” Dr. Thomson examined five of these con- cretions, Dr. Traill one : the several speci- mens underwent different treatment—some of the results are selected. Of those exa- mined by the former gentleman, No. 1 fur- nished, in 100 parts, 78-0 fibrous matter : -5 yellow colouring matter : 21 '5 saline matter. No. 2 furnished 7-0grs. saline matter : 1'4 brown faecal matter: 17'2 resinous matter: 74'4 fibrous matter. In the other three, the relative proportions of these elements fluc- tuated. In Dr. Traill’s analysis (proportions not ex- actly stated,) the result was—1, vegetable hairs, or filaments ; 2, mucous, or muco-ex- tractive matter ; 3, magnesia ; 4, lime. “ The first,” says Dr. Traill, “ forms by far the prin- cipal part of the calculus ; the second is the cement that binds these together, aided by the small quantity of magnesia, and still more minute quantity of lime. “ This intestinal calculus seems to me to be precisely similar to those described by (I think) Wollaston, as derived from oatmeal. It is not, as has been supposed by some, the beard or awn of the oat, that contributes to their formation ; but if we separate the whole husk of the oat we find, on the upper end of the farinaceous part of the seed, a beautiful silky tomentum or down, which, when put under the microscope, has the same appear- ance as that contained in the calculus, and has similar dimensions, both as to length and diameter.” From the preceding details it appears that, in different specimens, the composition of the alvine concretions varies, both as to their saline and their inflammable contents. The fibrous matter which they all contain seems, as Dr. Thomson, who first examined it, con- siders it to be, a peculiar substance ; that ob- tained from the two first concretions being soluble in potash, approaches, by one step nearer, to woody matter, but it widely differs in the effect which heat produces, intumescing, and not retaining its form like wood. The resinous matter which the second contains may be also peculiar, but for this to be satis- factorily proved farther experiments are yet required. The analysis of these concretions throws, if any, but a very imperfect, light on their formation. The most probable conjec- ture appears to me to be, that they are pro- duced from the remains of the ingesta, during their stay in the large intestines. On this hypothesis there would be no difficulty in accounting for the saline ingredients, all of which exist in the faeces ; neither would there be any respecting the formation of the resin- ous substance found in No. 2 ; it is, more- over, easy to conceive, and most natural too, that the fibrous matter, like the saline, is de- rived from the food. In opposition, it may be said, that the fibrous matter is a new sub- stance ; but, let this be granted, and it may nevertheless be contained in vegetables, and it would be desirable to examine those in most common use, with this object in view. The idea of the formation of these fibres in the intestines, from chemical changes there taking place, is difficult of conception, but the idea of this secretion is still more so. It is deeply to be regretted that no clue is derived from analysis to assist us in their successful removal, during the life of the pa- tient. Their size, in general, is so great be- fore they create afflicting symptoms, and their solubility, even in the most active menstrua, so slight, as to banish all hope of relief from this source, however gravely it may be as- serted in the Dictionnaire des Sciences Medi- cates', that biliary calculi, and intestinal con- cretions, may be dissolved by the use of fresh vegetables. Since these analyses of alimentary concre- 1 See Dictionnaire des Sciences Medicates, article ‘ Corps Etrangers,’ t. vii., page 6.