345 ANUS. bougie, increasing the size until one of half an inch diameter will readily pass up the gut. In those cases where the top of the pouch is pursed, and has a thickened feel, leading us to suppose that they depend on a thickening of the coats at that part, the only means of relief will be by introducing the canula of a trochar, and, holding it fixed against the point of oppo- sition, to force the stiletto through it. There is more uncertainty in the result of this ope- ration than there ought to be in any act con- nected with science ; but it is an uncertainty, which, as we cannot free ourselves from with- out, perhaps, sacrificing a life that might be saved, we must not hesitate to risk. As in the former species of obstructions, so in this, bougies must be introduced, and suffered to remain in the aperture ; not, how- ever, with the same view (which, in that in- stance, was to dilate the opening in the mem- brane) but to stimulate the vessels to ab- sorb the effused lymph which always attends, though it may not entirely produce, this form of obstruction. The introduction of bougies must, therefore, be more protracted, and their size more cautiously increased, to carry out the end we propose to ourselves. When the gut tapers to a point, and the finger can recognize nothing through its pa- rietes, or when the whole of the space which the gut should naturally occupy is filled up with cellular tissue, it will prove to be one of those unhappy cases in which the rec- tum above is degenerated into a solid cord, or terminated in a cul de sac, and in which the experience of MM. Roux de Brignolles and Amussat may lead us to hope for better results than we have yet dared to look for. It has been generally supposed hitherto that cases in which the lower part of the rec- tum is wanting for one and a half or two inches, as well as in those in which the intestine com- municates with the bladder, vagina, or male urethra, by an opening insufficient for the discharge of the faeces, must of necessity ter- minate fatally. Such, indeed, has been the opinion of the most eminent surgeons, for the opening of the abdomen above the iliac fossa, or the blind plunge with the trochar in the perineum, afforded too slender a chance to be accounted for any thing. On this point of surgical practice, nevertheless, a very deci- ded improvement has been achieved, and the pale of art has been enlarged, so as to admit for remedy those cases which, being deemed beyond its resources, were until lately aban- doned to their unhappy fate. The imperfora- lion of the anus in which there is nothing to indicate the vicinity of the rectum, is unques- tionably one of the most embarrassing occur- rences in surgery, whether we regard the fra- gility of the subjects, or the gravity of the operations necessary for their relief; but the evil is not desperate. We lay before the reader an abridged account of two cases of imperforation of the anus, treated successfully by operation, which show that we should not despair, even under the most unfavourable circumstances, of correcting these malforma- tions by a decided, but cautious, method of proceeding. The case of M. Roux de Brignolles, w'as one of imperforation both of the anus and ure- thra. The labour having been superintended by an ignorant midwife, the infant had been left nearly two days without succour. M. Deveze, a neighbouring practitioner, having been called in, he soon ascertained the exist- ence of the imperforations. The urethra was closed by a thin membrane at the base of the glans, constituting a sort of hypospadias. The penis being swollen and erect, this membrane was perforated with a stilette at once, and the urine was voided. Two days had elapsed before the consulta- tion was held; the countenance of the infant exhibited signs of deep suffering, the skin was yellow and dry, the abdomen tympanitic and painful, and the convolutions of the intestines could be distinctly traced upon its surface ; there was frequent hiccough, with vomiting of the milk and sugared water that had been given. When the infant cried, there was neither movement nor prominence in the re- gion of the anus, from which the proximity of the rectum might have been inferred ; nor could any indication be obtained by exploring with the finger. Here was obviously one of those unhappy cases, of which so unfavourable a prognosis has been given by Petit, Boyer, and many of the most eminent surgeons, viz. that in which there is no trace of opening, the anus beitig closed up by the skin, which is hard and thickened, and for which an operation in the region of the anus is, at first, no better than an exploration. M. Roux, however, was resolved to hazard an attempt to save the child’s life, and performed the operation for opening the rectum in the following manner:— The little patient having been placed on the lap of an assistant, in the same manner as for the operation of lithotomy, an incision was made in the skin, about an inch in length, in the exact line of the raphe, which could not be seen in the perineum. On separating the lips of the wound, the fibres of the elliptic muscles of the sphincter could be seen ; their internal borders were in contact, and pre- sented a straight line, but they contracted in a circle and with considerable force, when the infant cried. The incision was continued through the levatores ani muscles, to the depth of an inch, the edge of the knife being directed backwards towards the coccyx. The incision at this depth terminated in a mass of cellular tissue. So far, the dissection was made with a scalpel; a straight bistoury was now directed into the interior of the pelvis, the point being turned obliquely upwards and backwards, in order to avoid the bladder. It soon entered a cavity, which was supposed to be the rectum ; the handle was then raised, and the blade withdrawn in this position for the purpose of enlarging the internal incision. The meconium, which now came slowly forth, announced the success of the operation.