ERYSIPELAS. 114 which successively invaded the entire body and extremities even to the lingers and toes >. Dr. Rennes has published in the Archives de Medecine two analogous cases. When erysipe- las spreads at once from all the points of its circumference it has been called serpiginous. Sometimes it is transported as if by bands from one seat to some more or less remote and distinct portion of the integumentary surface, thus meriting the appellation of ery- sipelas saltans or ambulant or erratic. Its dis- appearance from the external surface, coincid- ing with the development of some internal in- flammation, has obtained for it the denomina- tion of metastatic erysipelas. Universal ery- sipelas, invading at once the entire periphery, is of very rare occurrence'. Renauldin men- tions a case of this kind in a lady of fifty years of age, who was speedily cured by the use of baths and aperient medicines 2. A diversity of opinion exists with respect to the elementary tissues of the skin that are more immediately the seat of erysipelas. Rayer says that in the most simple erysipelas, not only the vascular layer but the entire sub- stance of the skin and even the subcutaneous cellular texture are affected3. Others affirm that in the light superficial form of the disease, the morbid phenomena reside in the subepi- dermoid tissue 4, which, considered by some to be composed of lymphatic vessels, by others of capillary vessels, and by others to be a rete of sudoriferous exhalent ducts, constitutes one of the two elementary tissues into which modern anatomy has divided the rete muco- sum of Malpighi. The other elementary constituent of this rete, the pigmentum of Cruveilhier, would seem not to undergo any alteration in erysipelas, as it does in other cutaneous diseases, such as vaccina and vari- ola. In the aggravated form of the disease the morbid action certainly invades the deep seated strata of the skin and subcutaneous tissues. Dr. Banorden places the seat of the pseudo-erysipelas of Rust in the fascia, and proposes to call it synochus mitis5. Messrs. Hutchinson 6, Earle7 and Arnot8 9, would seem also to consider the aponeuroses as the prin- cipal seat of this affection ; but this opinion is not substantiated, as Mr. Lawrence justly ob- serves, by the post-mortem results, these mem. branes having been found to be almost always unaffected. Some modern pathologists, par- ticularly of the German schoolu, extend the seat of erysipelas to the internal organs. All the ancients entertained this opinion. Hippo- 1 Traite complet de Cliirurgie 1771. Tome 1. chap. ix. p. 404. 2 Diet, des Sciences Med. Art. Erysipele. 3 Traite theor. et prat, des Malad. de la Peau, 2e edit, tome 1. au mot. 4 Coster, Diet, de Sante. Tome 1. an mot. 5 Lepellctier, Traite de l’Erysipele, 1836. 6 Practical Observations in Surgery, 2nd edit. 2 London Med. and Pliys. Journal, vol. lvii. 8 Ibid. 9 Rust. Magazin, b. viii. Khun, Gazette Med. Annee 1833. ijahn, Ibid. crates1 speaks of erysipelas of the womb, throat, and lungs, and, according to Frank2 and Vogel3, says there is no internal organ, not even the parenchymatous viscera, exempt from its attacks. Although it is not unrea- sonable to admit the extension of an exan- thema to mucous surfaces as is seen in variola, or of the transfer of external specific affec- tions to internal organs, as we find in rheuma- tism, yet, as Hildenbrand4 justly observes, “ absente dermatis typo, etiarn erysipelatis cha- racterem amittunt.” In the pharyngitis that sometimes complicates erysipelas, two of the principal characters, the tumefaction and des- quamation, are wanting, and in general it is a simple erythematous angina with little or no swelling, or it is of a dyphtheritic kind, being covered with a dirty cheesy or membranous exudation. In fine, until a distinctive sym- ptomatology and special anatomical characters shall have been assigned to internal erysipelas, we should avoid rendering the question more complex, and we shall therefore consider the skin to be the exclusive seat of erysi- pelas. Etiology.—The immediate cause of erysi- pelas was formerly the subject of much empty discussion and gratuitous speculation. The part the ancients made the bile play in the production of erysipelas is too well known to need any mention. It would be futile at the present day to enter into an enquiry with Galen 5 whether “ erysipelas is the result of a humoral fluxion produced by the yellow bile strongly heated,” or with Van Holmvert6 whether “ it is a fiery imposthume in which a vital spirit is burning, irritated and provoked to wrath by some mortific cause.” The im- mediate cause of erysipelas is involved in mystery. We therefore confine ourselves to the exposition of the conditions in which ery- sipelas is developed. Can erysipelas be produced by art and at will ? The inflammation produced by any irritating agent can never be confounded with erysipelas. There is a speciality in erysipelas that art cannot impart, and into the nature of which we cannot penetrate. Chomel justly observes that erysipelas is now the sole result of an external cause. If external causes con- tribute to its development they only play a secondary part and always suppose the indis- pensable concurrence of an internal and con- stitutional one. This influence is designated by the word predisposition; a mere abstrac- tion it is true, but indicating the peculiar dis- position of the patient to contract the disease. We are far from rejecting the influence that occasional causes exert in the production of erysipelas ; but we repeat that they are but secondary. How otherwise explain the nume- 1 Op. cit. 2 De curandis Hominum Morbis Epitome, lib. iii. Dc Exanthematibus. 3 Handbuch dor Prakt. edit. 3. vol iii. 4 Inst. Pract. Med. tom. iii. 5 Methodi Medendi, lib. xiii. cap. iv- 6 Ortus medicinal. Dc Febribus.