DELIVERANCE. 866 been removed by the slightest traction of the cord. We withdraw it therefore, not only to free the patient from the mental anxiety which most females suffer till “ all is overbut to prevent the danger of internal haemorrhage, which might arise from the placenta acting as a plug in the vagina; or the slighter evil of after-pains from retained coagula. This prac- tice is not open to the charge of rashness, for traction on the cord should never be so forci- ble as to endanger its rupture. If there be resistance, the cause must be discovered and the obstacles removed. Force can never be necessary and must be injurious. In twin cases the only modification in our practice is to tie the cord of the first child, in order to guard against the danger of loss of blood to the second, which would occur, if this were neglected, and if the vessels of the two portions of placenta anastomosed, which, however, very rarely occurs. As the treatment of the placenta in abor- tion is treated in the article Abortion, and the subject of placenta presentations falls un- der the article Parturition, we have now to pass to the consideration of unnatural deli- verance, or of those cases in which the assist- ance of art is necessary for its safe completion, either from lapse of time, haemorrhage, con- vulsions, or any other cause. UNNATURAL DELIVERANCE. Very different opinions have been given by different authors as to the time we should allow to pass over after the birth of the child, before employing manual interference for the removal of the placenta. Dr. Blundell says, “ wait half an hour, no particular symptom forbiddingDr. Merriman, one hour; Dr. Ramsbotham, one hour and a half; Drs. Den- man and William Hunter four hours. The best rule of practice, however is derived partly from time, from the amount of uterine contraction, the situation of the placenta, and the presence of haemorrhage. We feel con- vinced that half an hour is quite long enough to wait, unless the detention arises from an exhausted state of the patient, in which case if no dangerous symptom be present it is bet- ter to admit further delay in order to restore her energies, and allow the uterus to regain sufficient power to expel the placenta natu- rally. Supposing then that under any other circumstances this period has passed over, it is necessary to discover the cause of the reten- tion. The most frequent are inertia, or atony of the uterus ; its irregular or spasmodic con- traction ; and morbid adhesion between the opposed surfaces of the placenta and uterus. Besides these, Desormeaux, Dubois, Duges, Velpeau, and other French writers give ex- cessive size of the placenta, weakness of the cord, and anteversion of the uterus. It is very rarely that the placenta is of such a size as to lead to its retention, and though there are occasional exceptions, the enlarge- ment is more apparent than real, depending upon the coagulation of a quantity of blood, either infiltrated into its substance, or effused upon and adhering to its maternal surface. Any difficulty from this source may be readily overcome either by bringing down the pla- centa edgeways, or by piercing its substance with the fingers, and removing any clots which may be present. Rupture of the cord, as a cause of reten- tion, is scarcely worth notice. The falling of the uterus forwards, or to one side, may obstruct the removal of the placenta from the uterine cavity by means of traction on the cord, for if it be not drawn in a direction from the fundus to the os uteri, the placenta, though lying loose, is immova- ble. This however is remedied by passing the fingers of one hand deeply into the va- gina to form a fulcrum for the cord, or by al- tering the position of the female. We have now to consider retention of the placenta as consequent upon, 1, inertia, or atony of the uterus ; 2, irregular contraction ; and 3, morbid adhesion, either of which states may be simple or combined with each other ; and may or may not be accompanied by hae- morrhage, according as the placenta is or is not separated. I. Retention of the placenta, from inertia or atony of the uterus, occurs in weak delicate women of lax fibre, in those who have been exhausted by haemorrhage before the birth of the child, or where the powers of the uterus have been completely worn out by the long continuance of labor, and in women who have borne a great many children. It is also frequent where the expulsion of the child has been too rapid, or the uterus has been so sud- denly emptied by some officious praetitioher that it is left without stimulus to contract, and remains in a torpid and relaxed condition. The placenta being retained, we know in- ertia to be the cause, if the usual secondary pains be absent, if the uterus is larger and softer than natural, not contracting on pres- sure, the placenta out of reach of the finger, and the vessels of the cord are soft and flabby, instead of being turgid with blood, as they are when the placenta is compressed by the con- tracting uterus. Haemorrhage may or may not be present. If so, it proves that more or less of the placenta has been separated, and in the generality of cases the amount of the haemorrhage is a guide to the extent of the separation. The treatment will depend upon the pre- sence or absence of haemorrhage. If there be no external flow of blood, and no faintness or other sign of internal effusion, and the pa- tient be much exhausted, it is well to wait a short time to allow the system to rally, and the uterus to regain its contractility, merely employing slight friction on the hypogastric region, and making an occasional grasping pressure on the uterus ; a dose of ergot should also be given. Traction of the cord is highly dangerous, as the cord, and some portion of the membranes may come away leaving the placenta; or the latter is separated, producing