221 ANEURISM. adopted for the cure of the disoasc. It was now no longer necessary to lay open the cavity of the aneurism, or to place a ligature on a por- tion of a vessel, perhaps unsound; the diffi- culties of securing the mouths of the denuded artery were altogether avoided, and the parts deprived of their due supply of blood, in con- sequence of the obliteration of the arterial trunk, are immediately and abundantly sup- plied by the anastomosing vessels. The inno- vation of Hunter was no rash or blind expe- riment : adhesion and absorption, principles which he had so ably developed, were the physiological resources on which he relied, and the application of a ligature on the sound part of an artery, and at a distance from the aneurismal tumour,may be considered as natural a result of his admirable labours, as the principle itself of healing wounds, by the first intention. Hunter, having established the soundness of his principle of operating for popliteal an- eurism, by obliterating the superficial femoral artery, others were emboldened, more par- ticularly some surgeons in this country, to adopt the same principle in other aneurismal arteries, and thus modern surgery has been lately enriched by a series of bold opera- tions for the cure of aneurism, ligatures hav- ing been successively placed on arterial trunks of the first order in magnitude. Thus Aber- nethy placed a ligature on the carotid artery, and afterwards on the trunk of the external iliac in an aneurism of the inguinal artery ; — Keate tied the subclavian artery for the cure of an axillary aneurism ;—Mott, of New York, applied a ligature to the innominata ;— and, finally, Cooper placed a ligature on the aorta itself. Unavvare of the restorative powers of the economy, and of the office which the inoscu- lating branches of the arterial system are capable of performing when the circulation through a trunk is obstructed, the possibility of a limb being nourished, after the circulation through so large a vessel as the femoral artery became obstructed, had never been contem- plated, until it was proposed by Hunter to place a ligature on that vessel for the cure of popli- teal aneurism. This principle of operating was, indeed, more especially applicable to the treat- ment of an aneurism of the popliteal artery, because here the old operations must have been very difficult to execute ; whereas the ligature could be placed with great facility on the superficial femoral artery, and at a con- siderable distance from the tumour. Accord- ingly, when this mode was employed in an aneurism of the popliteal artery, though Hun- ter made use, as we now know, of an unneces- sary number of ligatures, without tightening any one of them in a secure manner, the new operation was successful, and has since been universally performed in all cases of external aneurism, where a ligature can be placed on the cardiac side of the tumour. If a ligature be applied on an arterial trunk on the cardiac side of an aneurism, the first effect of the operation is to cause a com- plete stoppage of the circulation of the blood within the sac—unless under some particular circumstances which will be hereafter men- tioned. The blood then becomes stagnated, its coagulation readily takes place, and not only does the blood contained in the artery between the ligature and the tumour, and that contained within the tumour itself, undergo this change, but likewise the portion which is contained between the tumour and the first inosculating branch on the capillary side of the aneurism is coagulated. The circulation of the blood within the tumour having ceased, and its contents having coagulated, the pro- gress of the disease is now arrested, and the tumour, in place of increasing, diminishes in bulk, and the whole of the coagulated blood is absorbed. A concretion of fibrine is after- wards formed within the sac and obstructed portion of the artery, the sides of the sac as well as those of the vessel gradually coalesce, and ultimately their cavities are obliterated. Whilst these changes are going on within the sac, important changes are also taking place in the inosculating or anastomosing ves- sels. No sooner is the ligature placed on the arterial trunk than an immediate altera- tion takes place in the current of the blood. The increased impulse which is necessarily given to the heart’s action, from the additional stimulus it receives by the increase in the quantity of its arterial blood, in consequence of the supply to a large trunk being obstructed, will assist in propelling the blood with greater vigour into the inosculating branches, so that they are at once enabled to fulfil the offices of the obstructed vessel, and abundantly to supply the limb with blood. I have stated that the defective supply of blood in a limb, caused by the obstruction of an arterial trunk from the application of a ligature, is immediately balanced by the en- largement of the anastomosing vessels. That an increase in the size of the inosculating branches takes place as I have already stated, at least, to a certain extent, almost instantly after the trunk has been obstructed, is proved by an interesting circumstance, which I had first an opportunity of observing in a child on whom I placed a ligature on the external carotid artery. Immediately after the opera- tion, the branches of the temporal and occi- pital arteries of the opposite side of the head could be distinguished through the delicate integuments, enlarging, becomingtortuous, and apparently circulating their contents with ad- ditional vigour. To fulfil the office of a large arterial trunk, I have also mentioned that many anastomosing arteries appear at first to lend their assistance, but, sooner or later, the function of the ob- structed vessel is performed by a very few in- osculating branches, these acquiring a larger and larger size in proportion to the diminu- tion in their number. The dissections of limbs, on the main arteries of which ligatures had been placed at different periods before death, point out those changes in the anasto- mosing vessels, and how" the new chan- nels become gradually diminished in number.