CANCER. G7G culty be passed ; but the obstruction may be more complete even than this. The symptoms differ in the early stage, ac- cording to the form under which the affection occurs : the tuberiform variety appears to be, from the first, attended with pain in the sacral region, the nates, thighs, and hips ; in the stratiform this is slower in appearing. In both a sensation of uneasiness in the rectum, a feel- ing as if the gut were never thoroughly evacu- ated, and a consequent repetition of the act of defecation, twice or more in the same day, sometimes accompanied with tenesmus, are among the first effects of the disease. These may have possibly existed for a considerable time, before the morbid deposition has pro- ceeded to any extent;—the nature of the dis- ease is at this time rarely' suspected. Diffi- culty in defecation progressively increases, a discharge of pus, or inuco-pus, frequently ac- companies that of the faeces, which are more or less tinged with blood ; the latter may be effused in large quantities, but this is not com- mon. Obstinate constipation, alternating with profuse diarrhoea, the former lasting for days, while the accumulation of flatus and faeces swells the abdomen to an enormous size, now becomes a formidable symptom. The copious evacuation, eventually brought about either by purgatives or by the natural irritation of acrid mucus, leaves the patient in a state of extreme collapse, and a prolonged fainting fit is not un- common under the circumstances. Before this relief the symptoms may have become those of internal strangulation, nausea, vomiting of fasci- form matter, hiccup, coldness of the extremities, vertigo, and even delirium. Irritation is mean- while set up in the neighbouring parts ; and difficult micturition, or, in some cases, on the contrary, incontinence of urine, follows. Ab- cesses may form around the intestine, and burst into the vagina, in females ; an occurrence which sometimes produces much relief, from the facility it affords for the passage of the faeces: in males they open into the bladder or urethra, in which case the patient voids both flatus and faeculent matter by that route. In advanced cases there is oedema of the geni- tals and lower extremities.—Uidess relieved by an operation the symptoms increase in violence — the retention of the intestinal contents becomes complete—not even flatus escapes—extreme tympanitis ensues, with the symptoms of strangulation : or rupture of the bowel from faecal or gaseous distension occurs, followed by fatal effusion into the peritonaeum. Under particular circumstances there may be variation in these symptoms. When the disease is of the tuberiform character, perfectly circumscribed, and limited to a small part of the gut, defecation may be, as in some cases related by authors, easily accomplished to the last, provided there be no considerable pro- trusion into the cavity of the bowel. Or the patient may suddenly find himself relieved, in a great measure, of his constipation, in conse- quence of the separation of prominent fungi, or deep ulceration of a protruding mass. Some subjects suffer from constant diarrhoea, and saved thus from the effects of retention, eventu- ally perish with the cancerous cachexia. The form of the faeces discharged gives good evidence of stricture ; instead of being cylindrical, they are flattened and ribbon-like. This sign is of course wanting in cases at- tended with habitual diarrhoea. The inca- pacity of the rectum to receive an enema of the ordinary measure is a useful sign, when the disease, more especially, is seated beyond the reach of the finger. These circumstances, however, throw no light on the nature of the obstruction; nor does the former al- ways distinguish its seat, for Hevin ’, has observed the same appearance in a case of coarctation of the jejunum. An irregular faecal tumour forms in the left iliac re- gion.—Examination with the finger, bougies, and the speculum ani, further establish the condition of the gut. The former of these modes requires considerable tact, in order to be made as useful as it is capable of becoming ; and, as Amussat2 judiciously observes, the stu- dent should familiarize himself, by exercise on the dead subject, with the differences in the relations of the part observable in subjects of different age, sex, &c. He also states, that by introducing the finger from behind, the surgeon is enabled to push it much further into the in- testine, than if this be done from before or laterally. The situation of the obstruction, its degree, the state of the walls of the gut, the presence of a tumour, or of a stratiform mass, of ulceration, or of fungous formations, are thus ascertained. When the disease is origi- nally seated too high up to be touched by the finger, it may, at a later period, be brought within reach of this from being gradually forced downwards by the accumulation of faeces above it. Cruveilhier was, from this cause, enabled to reach a stricture which post- mortem examination proved to be seated five or six inches from the anus. The characters of the disease may be sometimes ascertained with further accuracy by the soft wax bougie : when the disease is high up in the gut, the use of this instrument is still more valuable, but also attended with difficulty, as in cases of ex- treme constriction it is no easy matter to find the central canal. This becomes of import- ance in respect of the treatment, and M. Amussat has endeavoured to overcome the difficulty by some contrivances which will be noticed in the article Rectum, where may also be found directions respecting the mode of introducing the instrument: it is only neces- sary to state here, that if gentleness be requi- site under all conditions of disease, it is essen- tially so in cases of cancer.—The speculum ani may be advantageously employed, when doubt exists as to the presence or degree of 1 Mem. sur la Passion Iliaque, quoted l>y Cos- tallat in Essai sur un Nouveau Mode do Dilatation, &r. Paris, 1834. s Gaz. Med. de Paris, Dec. 1838; Jan. 1839; Oct. 1839.