CATARACT. 731 of the operation of extraction, the advantages and disadvantages of each of these modes have been ably and keenly canvassed, and each has been maintained to have a prefer- ence over the other, by that system of exclu- sive tactics which holds out the many advan- tages of the one as opposed to a long enume- ration of the disadvantages of the other. Many of the arguments, it must be admitted, which have been urged on both sides, are well founded, and deserving of due considera- tion ; but others are certainly founded on ob- jections, or disadvantages, which are to be attributed rather to the operator than to the operation. As the operations by displacement and ex- traction are applicable to almost the very same description of cases, viz. to cataracts oc- curring in elderly persons, of a firm consist- ence, the question may here be discussed which has frequently been agitated, as to which of these operations is the best. Couching or displacement is applicable only to cataracts of a firm consistence ; and it may be performed in some cases, in which extrac- tion would either be imprudent or inadmissi- ble. There are cases where the cornea and anterior chamber are small, where the cornea is opaque, or encroached upon by the arcus senilis, where the eyeball is much sunk in the orbit, and where the cataract is compli- cated with a constricted pupil or morbid state of the vitreous humour : also where the un- steadiness, or old age, or bad health of the patient make it objectionable or impracti- cable. It has been urged in favour of the operation of couching or displacement of cataract, that little injury is done to the eye — that less in- flammation in general supervenes from it than from extraction—and that the operation may easily and safely be repeated if unsuccessful. These are important and well founded argu- ments in favour of the displacement of the cataract. The disadvantages which have been ob- served to follow the operations for displace- ment of cataract, are—first, the great liability of the lens to rise again into its former situa- tion ; second, the laceration of the vitreous humour into which it is embedded, which is liable to cause disorganizing inflammation of the eye ; and, thirdly, it has been objected to the depression of the lens, that the iris, retina, and choroid coat are apt to be injured in ac- complishing it, as well as by the contact of the lens affecting them afterwards ; and hence the preference which some have given to reclina- tion. The first and third of these objections, however,are by no means necessary accompani- ments of the operation, and should not occur w'hen it is properly performed. In the reclina- tionofthe lens, or horizontal displacement of it, the objection founded on the laceration of the vitreous humour is the same as in the ver- tical displacement; in which last the injury is, perhaps, less than in the former ; and it is a necessary accompaniment of the operation which cannot be avoided. “ The real objec- tion,” says Mr. Travers, “ to couching is, the ultimate step of the operation, viz. the break- ing up of the fine texture that fills the globe by the forcible depression of the lens. Whe- ther it be depressed edgeways or breadthways makes no difference in the result ; it must still occupy a breach in the cells of the vitreous humour, and must derange and dis- order that delicate texture and those con- nected with it. A slow insidious inflammation, marked by a gradual development of the symptoms of disorganization, viz. congestion of vessels, turbid humours, flaccid tunics, and palsied iris, is too often the consequence. The sight, instead of improving when the immediate effects of the injury are passed away, remains habitually weak and dim, or declines and fades altogether 3. Extraction. The extraction, or complete removal of the lens from the eye, is very generally admitted to be one of the most perfect operations in surgery. It is adapted chiefly to cases of hard or firm cataract, affecting persons ad- vanced in life ; but there are a greater number of circumstances which physically preclude the accomplishment of this operation, than that of displacement. Besides, other two objections have been urged to extraction, which will deserve attentive consideration ; viz. the greater danger incurred to the eye from its adoption than in any other opera- tion, and the much greater difficulty of per- forming it. 1. The circumstances which render the adoption of extraction improper or imprac- ticable are, small anterior chamber, an eyeball much sunk in the orbit, an opaque state of cornea, adhesions between the iris and the cornea or capsule of the lens, a contracted pupil, a soft and boggy state of the eyeball, from disorganization of the vitreous humour, when the patient, being much advanced in life, or when he is of so very irritable and restless a temperament, that the eye can- not be properly steadied during the operation. In some cases, where any of the above cir- cumstances exist, it would be very impru- dent to make the attempt, and in others it would be impracticable to perform the opera- tion of extraction with safety and success. The existence of an arcus senilis upon the cornea is not of itself to be considered an obstacle to the operation of extraction. 2. The greater danger which has been alleged to arise from the operation of extrac- tion compared with the operations by dis- placement with the needle, wall be found to be owing more to the operator than to the nature of the operation, provided none of the circumstances above enumerated, as forbidding the operation, exist. 3. The difficulties and dangers of this ope- 1 Travers’ Synopsis, pp. 318, 319. Sec also Mac- kenzie, p. 723.