EAR, AND HEARING, DISEASES OF. 21 outer surface of it is covered by the mem- brane lining the tympanum as it is reflected on the stapes. The connexions of the base of the stape3 with the vestibular fenestra are such as to admit of some degree of movement, but not to any very great extent. The membrane lining the tympanum invests the small bones and the tendons of these mus- cles where they run free in the cavity. A fold of it fills up the space bounded by the crura and base of the stapes, the chorda tympani, also, in its passage across the tympanum, is enveloped by it. Lastly, it forms the inner borrowed layer of the membrana tympani, covering and adhering closely to the handle of the malleus. Eustachian tube.—The Eustachian tube is a passage of communication betwixt the cavity of the tympanum and the throat. In length about an inch and a half, it is directed from behind forwards, from without inwards, and from above downwards. Its guttural orifice is wider than that by which it opens into the tympanum. Proceeding from the tympanum, its first third is an osseous canal; the walls of the remainder of it are composed partly of car- tilage, partly of fibrous membrane. The car- tilaginous and membranous portion of the Eustachian tube is about one inch long. In the state of rest its outer and inner walls lie in contact. By this arrangement the tube is as if provided with a valve, opening both ways, but so weak as to be readily forced by the breath and by the action of the surrounding peristaphyline muscles. From its junction with the osseous portion, the cartilaginous and membranous portion of the Eustachian tube goes on widening, so that, as the osseous por- tion is also more contracted at the point of junction than towards the tympanum, the place where the two meet is the narrowest part of the tube ; in the recent state, about one-thir- tieth of an inch in diameter, just sufficient to admit a small probe. The mouth of the Eus- tachian tube in the throat forms an oval-shaped fissure, about three-eighths of an inch long, bounded anteriorly and posteriorly by promi- nent swollen edges. The fissure is directed obliquely from above downwards, and from before backwards, and is situated at the upper and lateral part of the pharynx behind the soft palate. In reference to the nasal passage, my observation agrees with that of Kramer, that the lower angle of the guttural orifice of the Eustachian tube lies a very little deeper than the horizontal line of the lowest meatus, whilst the upper angle is a little deeper than the horizontal line of the middle meatus. Fig. 193. Fig. 193. A section of the head showing the spongy bones, nasal passages, and guttural orifice of the Eus- tachian tube of the right side. a, Inferior spongy bone, b, Middle spongy bone, c, Superior spongy bone, d d, Inferior meatus of the nostril, e e, Mid- dle meatus, ff Superior meatus, q g, Section of hard palate, h h. Section of soft palate and of the uvula, i, Gitttural orifice of the Eustachian tube with a catheter, which has been passed along the inferior meatus of the nostril, inserted into it. k k. Prominent edges of the guttural orifice of the Eustachian tithe. The Eustachian tube is essentially a tegu- mentary canal; through it atmospherical air is admitted into the tympanum. Its lining membrane is continuous with that of the nose and throat on the one hand, and with that of the tympanum on the other. At the guttural orifice of the tube, it has all the properties of the mucous membrane of the nose and throat; as it approaches the tympanum it becomes thinner and finer, until it assumes all the cha-