ARM, BEND OF. 370 iron rod, or catheter, to the tumour, and the other to the ear ; this is probably the first time “mediate auscultation” was ever used to facilitate the diagnosis of aneurisms. Cleghorn likewise enriched his letter with an engraving which portrays the dilated state of the basilic, cephalic, and median veins b These valuable observations had not proba- bly reached foreign shores, when Guattani, of Rome, published a good memoir upon aneur- isms, in which he describes this new species ; hence, some persons, totally ignorant of dates, have endeavoured to rob British surgery of one of its numerous glories; however, Guat- tani1 2 saw his first patient in 17C9, and his second in 1771. He published his paper in 1772 ; it is, therefore, surprising that the learned Monteggia3 should have written, “ that this disease was first described by Guat- tani, then by W. Hunter, to whom improperly is attributed the discovery.” As a corroboration of this statement, Monteggia refers to Arnaud’s Memoires, where the reader may search in vain even for Guattani’s name. Scarpa, on the ground that Guattani was ignorant of Hunter’s papers, is anxious to claim an equal share of merit for his countrymen, which im- partial history will not grant. Of all the forms of aneurism, this one is doubtless the least understood. Opportuni- ties of investigating the morbid condition of the parts affected rarely occur : few authors, therefore, have been enabled to give a toler- ably correct history of this affection. The majority of surgeons prefer leaving the disease to nature, or, when they do interfere, opera- tions are performed which not only disturb the relative situations of parts, but likewise destroy their integrity : hence, should the patients eventually sink under the operation, very little can be learnt by anatomical inspec- tion : for these reasons, therefore, we must not be surprised that many opinions concern- ing this disease should be founded on errone- ous or conjectural grounds. To save time, we shall at once draw the following conclu- sions, from the most approved and recent au- thorities, which will show at a glance the state of science upon this subject. Varicose, or arterio-venous aneurism gene- rally occurs after bleeding at the arm, and is caused by the lancet running through both 1 John Bell’s introduction of the terms “aneurism hy anastomosis” to denote “ naivus maternus;” and the distinction which some writers draw between aneurismal varix and varicose aneurism, have already created some confusion in this point of nomenclature. To avoid all ambiguity, MM. Dupuytren and Breschet prefer the name of arterio-venous aneurism, or aneur- ism by transfusion; we shall employ the word “vari- cose,” which is generally understood, and means, pro- perly, an aneurism formed by the communication of the artery and vein ; the “ aneurismal varix ” is a dis- tended state of the veins which pulsate like arteries, and is the consequence or extension of the varicose aneurism which frequently exists alone. 2 De Spurio Braehii Aneurysmate, p. 223, 224. See Louth’s collection of Theses. 3 Instituzioni Chirurgiche, p. 183. c. i. Milano, 1829. sides of the median basilic vein, into the bra- chial artery which lies beneath it; the exter- nal wound of the integuments and vein heals up, while the puncture through the opposite side of the vein remains open, and receives more or less blood from the injured artery. These are considered the necessary conditions of this sort of aneurism ; and the consequence is, that the superficial veins of the arm be- come “ varicose, aneurismal, and pulsate.” These views, which were first established by W. Hunter, have been followed by Scarpa, Hodgson, Delpech, Roux, Dupuytren, Bell, Wardrop, Breschet, Liston, &e. This sort of aneurism has likewise been detected in other parts besides the arm, as the axillary, subclavian, carotid, femoral, and popliteal vessels ; nevertheless the same explanation has been given ; the veins have always been supposed to have been divided through and through. These additional examples prove that varicose aneurism may exist between deep as well as superficial veins and their cor- responding arteries. It must notwithstand- ing be recollected, that all the cases of vari- cose aneurism produced by bleeding at the arm, have invariably been represented as ex- isting between the superficial median basilic vein and the brachial artery. I know but one exception, namely :—Park’s case of aneur- ism, mentioned in J. Bell’s work, which could not be explained by that author, and was con- sequently considered, and called, “ an anomal- ous case of aneurism.” The object of these observations, is to de- monstrate, that varicose aneurism and aneur- ismal varix may be produced by the lancet injuring the deep veins and brachial artery. We have been fortunate in having an oppor- tunity of dissecting a limb affected with this peculiar form of aneurism ; and from the case being ripe with interest, it appears a duty to communicate the principal facts connected with it. The case is such as seldom finds its way into print, unless when persons arc actu- ated by the lowest motives ; and I beg the reader will reflect, that I am indebted, for the dissection of this limb, to M. Roux, whose friendship I prize as much as I admire his scientific and high-minded character. The patient was a female about thirty-five years of age, of delicate form ; during an ill- ness she was bled in the arm by a female friend ; the artery was opened ; a tumor or circumscribed false aneurism, with all the symptoms of varicose aneurism, was the con- sequence. M. Roux saw the patient soon after this accident, and decided upon giving J. Hunter’s operation a trial, for the cure of this double form of aneurism. The brachial artery was therefore tied at about the middle of the arm. The tumor, or circumscribed false aneurism, disappeared after this opera- tion ; the varicose aneurism, however, still continued ; and the patient left the Hospital of “ La Charite.” The disease made slow but gradual progress. This unfortunate female now applied to MM. Dupuytren and Lisfranc for