CANCER, PHYSIOLOGY OF, 614 it is said, arterial or venous : in the former in- stance resulting from irritation, in the latter from obstruction to the venous circulation. The first consequence of this may be sup- posed to be a change in the colour of the diseased mass, if it be highly vascularized : in the one case a florid hue becomes manifest, in the other a purple, brown, or black tint.' But, chiefly owing to the delicacy of the vessels in the adventitious growth, the trifling support received from the substance in which they ramify and their imperfect communica- tion with each other, extravasation of blood almost always follows. The heemorrhage thus produced may, authors assure us, be so abun- dant as to cause a sudden and visible increase in the size of non-ulcerated tumours. En- cephaloid, in which haemorrhage of this kind has recently occurred, is found infiltrated with the effused fluid or broken down and mixed with grumous coagula : the appearances in the one case resembling those of the capillary apoplexy of Cruveilhier, in the other of ordi- nary cerebral apoplexy. Occasionally the mixture of encephaloid in small proportion with a preponderating quantity of blood pro- duces a kind of pulpy detritus, excellently likened by Andral to the red grumous matter filling the loculi of certain softened spleens. The subsequent changes of the effused blood are strikingly similar to those observed in cerebral haemorrhage. The liquid portion is gradually absorbed with the haematosine ; the discoloured fibrine remains behind in a sort of cavity lined with a smooth and deli- cate membrane, while the circumjacent can- cerous matter acquires a yellow tint: at a more advanced period the clot disappears, the lining of the cavity is more distinctly serous in character, its contents a serous or gelatinous matter. Such is, doubtless, the origin of the greater part of the cysts, of which we have already spoken, found in the interior of carcinoma. Wherever and under whatever circumstances blood is ef- fused into the tissues, there is a tendency to the formation of a pseudo-membrane gradu- ally assuming the serous character. See Ce- phalhematoma, Hematoma. Another and rarer mode of cerebral hae- morrhage, particularly described by Andral, in which the apoplectic cavity is traversed by filaments interlacing into a rete infiltrated with serosity, has also been noticed in ence- phaloid. Or, again, the coagulated fibrine forms a solid persistent mass, which, by under- going various transformations, gives rise to the cartilaginiform, cretaceous, and ossiform particles, occasionally met with in these growths. When carcinoma of a gland is at- tacked with haemorrhage, it is not unusual for some of the effused blood to escape outwards by the excretory ducts of the organ. Extra- vasation of serum may occur in encephaloid, and, according to Beclard.give that substance precisely the aspect of the brain, in a state of wdiite softening. A variety of writers speak of inflammation of the proper substance of a cancerous tumour as an ordinary occurrence ; but the allusions to the actual condition of the morbid matter, when thus affected, are vague and unsatisfactory. We are not aware how such process could be proved to have occur- red, except by the discovery of pus in the morbid growth. Now that a fluid, possessing the gross physical characters of purulent mat- ter, is occasionally so situated, is averred by numbers. Cruveilhier speaks frequently of the presence of pus in cancer as a point not admitting of doubt. But the ascertained out- ward similarity of liquified fibrine and pus seems to render it doubtful, (and at all events shows the importance of further demonstra- tion) whether the common belief as to the frequent presence of the latter in these pro- ducts is well founded. The testimony of Miiller is, nevertheless, strong : he refers par- ticularly to a specimen of reticular cancer, re- markable by its containing a number of cavi- ties filled, some with caseous, others with puriform matter : the smallest of these puru- lent cavities (eiterhohle) measured half a line in diameter, and were lined with a vascular membrane ; but the microscopical and micro- chemical characters of the fluid do not seem to have been ascertained. In these observa- tions we refer to pus formed in the cancerous matter itself: its production in any of the natural tissues accidentally imprisoned in a tumor, or its passage by imbibition from ad- jacent structure into the heterologous matter, are less debatable points. Saline and colouring matters, as well as dif- ferent adventitious formations, are found in some cancerous growths. The detection of microscopical crystals in encephaloid and col- loid by Gluge and Muller has already been noticed. Carcinoma occasionally presents a black tinge either from abundant punctuation, in- filtration, or deposition in masses of melanic matter ; and an attempt has been made by some authors, led by this accidental impreg- nation into a belief that melanosis constitutes a separate malignant formation, to class it as a species of cancer. With the holders of this notion we cannot, for the following reasons, agree: 1. Pure melanic pigment, no matter in what abundance it be accumulated, pro- duces no other effects than those dependent on the mechanical obstruction caused by the mass it constitutes. 2. When melanotic tu- mours produce the local and general symp- toms of cancerous growths, they are found to be composed either of encephaloid or scirrhus (more especially the former), impregnated with black matter. 3. Neither the local nor general symptoms of carcinoma are modified in cases in which melanic matter is found to pervade it. 4. Melanic matter is incapable of forming a tissue, being an unorganised fluid into which vessels have never been observed to penetrate. It has been remarked that when one cancerous growth is tinged with 1 Carswell.