CANCER, TREATMENT OF. 644- duced marvellous effects in the hands of M. Recamier A woman affected with fungating cancer of the cervix uteri, which had already destroyed almost the entire of that portion of the organ, underwent seven or eight appli- cations of this caustic : the local and general symptoms yielded completely ; the ulceration ceased ; the body of the organ, which had been engorged, lost its unnatural size; the lanci- nating pain and haemorrhages were no longer complained of. This caustic is prepared by mixing nitrochloric acid (aqua regia) with pure chloride of gold, in the proportion of one ounce of the acid to six grains of the salt'. Notwithstanding all this M. Recamier has, it would seem, given up this chloride for that of platina2. As a general principle, these agents should be applied in such manner as to produce the requisite effect, if possible, by a single appli- cation, otherwise the irritation produced, gives new activity to the disease. In superficial cancerous ulcers of the skin, in cases where carcinomatous matter appears in the cicatrix after operation, or where some suspicious tissue has been accidentally left behind, and the patient refuses to submit to further use of the knife, they may be safely and advantageously used. But in cases of glandular cancer they are wholly inapplicable as a general truth : the agony they cause is infinitely greater than that produced by the knife, and there can be no certainty that every particle of the diseased formation is removed. Fatal results have oc- curred from the absorption of arsenic, and in the article on uterine cancer, the serious acci- dents to w'hich other species of caustics have given rise, are noticed. Many of these ob- jections do not apply to the chloride of zinc. Kreasote has been made favourable mention of by Griife3. A case of extensive cancer of the face and arch of the palate is stated by this observer to have been remarkably im- proved in condition by the application of this substance. It may be applied either pure or diluted with water ; it does not produce much pain4. The inoculation of the matter of common and of hospital gangrene has been practised, with the design of imitating the natural pro- cess of cure before referred to5. Various preparations of lead have been from time to time extolled as specifics for scirrhus. Goulard affirmed that he had cured ulcerated cancer with them ; Brambilla extols the virtues of a plaster composed of minium, olive oil, and turnip juice ; Gesner6 ascribes singular virtue to the acetate made into a liniment with turpentine. The calmer judgment of Bayle has limited the real value of these prepara- tions to their sedative action: as exercising this action in a marked manner, he recom- i Rev. Med. 1835, t. ii. p. 380. 5 Pauly, Mai. de-l’Uterus, p. 345. 3 In 8einem nnd Waltlier’9 Journ. b. xx. 9. 151. * See also Marchal, Gaz. Med. de Paris, p. 107; 1835. 5 See Cruvcilhier, Essai sur l'An. Path. t. i. p. 128. 6 Beobachtungcn, b. v. s. 141. mends a combination of six drachms of “ li- tharge of gold,” six drachms of vinegar, and two ounces of olive oil, to be spread in a thin layer on the ulcerated surface. Counter-irritation, in the form of blisters, issues, or setons, has occasionally appeared to produce beneficial effects ; but such result is not to be always looked for, and there may be positive mischief in its employment. M. Cruvcilhier1 refers to a case in which a blis- tered surface became cancerous, a circum- stance already adverted to. In the strictly palliative treatment the two main indications are to relieve pain and remove fetor. Almost all the dressings for cancerous sores have been devised with a view to the fulfilment of one or other of these indications. Some surgeons give the prefer- ence to hemlock poultices made of the recent plant as a sedative application ; bruised carrots, also, ease pain and correct fetor. The latter vegetable was first brought into notice by Sult- zer in 1766, and, more solito, announced as pos- sessing the power of radically curing the dis- ease. Boiled figs and vegetable charcoal have been used with similar views ; some practi- tioners simply cover the part with compresses steeped in laudanum ; fomentations of stramo- nium leaves are mentioned by Mr. Warren. Decoction of cinchona with tincture of myrrh is found a serviceable application where the surface is flabby and disposed to bleed. In the course of a protracted disease like cancer it will of course be found necessary to change the species of dressings. Their temperature may be regulated by the patient’s feelings ; but much warmth is said to stimulate the growth of the disease. The chlorurets of lime or soda are useful in removing fetor, and are said to produce a good effect occasionally on the surface of the ulcer. Dr. F. Churchill of Dublin has re- cently recommended injections of a solution of nitrate of silver with the same view' in cancer of the uterus ; they likewise diminish, it is said, the irritability of the ulcer and lessen pain. Haemorrhage is occasionally productive of temporary alleviation of pain, and when mode- rate in quantity and of rare occurrence is there- fore rather favourable than otherwise. Under other circumstances it is of course necessary to stop it, which is often a task of much diffi- culty. When depending on capillary effusion, pressure is the most likely means of arresting it. ; when from the perforation of an artery, ligature of the vessel is indicated. This should be practised outside the morbid growth. Mr. Travers was in one instance obliged to tie the carotid to stop the bleeding from an encephaloid tumour at the angle of the jaw. In the general treatment of subjects labour- ing under cancer, our object, according to Dr. Copland, must be “ to support the energies of life by exciting the digestive functions and the abdominal secretions and excretions, and ’ I/ivrais. xxvii. Mammellcs, p. 4.