855 CUPPING. anterior, it is the retina and vitreous body which are more particularly involved with the posterior wall. In either case, the lens itself suffers more or less, and enlarged vessels are sometimes seen prolonged into it. Professor Walther *, to whom we owe the first notion of inflammation of the crystalline body, remarks, that in in- flammation of the anterior wall of the capsule, vessels shoot backw-ards into the substance of the lens; whilst in inflammation of the posterior wall of the capsule, vessels shoot forward. Inflammation. of the anterior wall of the capsule. The symptoms of inflammation of the an- terior wall of the capsule have a general re- semblance to those of chronic iritis ; the iris being more or less affected, especially the membrane investing its posterior surface. Objective symptoms.—There is not much external redness. The iris is slightly disco- loured and dull, and the pupil, bordered by a fringe of uvea, is somewhat contracted, irre- gular in form, and either fixed or very slug- gish in its movements. On close examination, patches of opacity, some of them tinged of a brown colour, may be seen on the anterior ■wall of the capsule with minute vessels ter- minating in them. If belladonna be applied, and the pupil yields to its influence, the few red vessels, which were previously seen coming from behind it, are discovered to be derived from what appears to the naked eye brownish red patches on the crystalline, forming an interrupted circle concentric with the pupil. By the help of a magnifying glass, however, of one inch, or one half inch focus, these patches are discovered to be vascular net-works tending in their ramifications, as is the natural course of the vessels on the anterior wall of the capsule, from the circum- ference towards the centre. Between these vascular net-works on the anterior wall of the capsule, and the membrane on the posterior surface of the iris, vessels supported by bands of adhesive lymph extend. Subjective symptoms.—The dull pain in the eye and head which attends this inflammation is seldom such as to cause much distress; and any intolerance of light is so little that the examination of the eye is not attended with much uneasiness. Muscae volitantes, and photopsia, however, sometimes disturb the pjitient, and the dimness of vision is greater than the mere suffusion of the lens would alone indicate. In the early stage of inflammation of the an- terior wall of the capsule, resolution is some- times brought about ; but, when the disease has existed for some time, it remains very ob- stinate. Inflammation of the posterior wall of the capsule, and of the hyaloid membrane. The posterior wall of the capsule, rendered visible by the opacity which attends the in- 1 Abhandlungen aus dem Gebicte dcr practisckcn Mcdicin; vol. i. Landshut, 1810. flammation, presents a concave surface, on which, according to Walther, vessels are seen radiating from the centre. I have not seen any case in which red vessels were visible ; but I have seen radiating streaks of opacity in the situation of the posterior wall of the capsule, somewhat similar in arrangement to the vessels represented in Professor Walther’s figure of inflammation of the posterior wall of the capsule. The impairment of vision, photopsia and headach in this case pointed to a concomitant affection of the retina ; such cases are described as inflammation of the hyaloid by Dr. Mackenzie. Dr. Ammon ob- serves that opacity of the posterior wall of the capsule is very frequently the precursor of disease of the vitreous body, and of the retina, or is a consequence of it. This he sup- poses depends on a diseased action of the cen- tral artery, perhaps, also, on a morbid change of this delicate vessel itself. Dr. Mackenzie in his chapter on the subject also remarks, “ The vessels of the posterior hemisphere of the crystalline capsule are derived from the central artery of the vitreous humour; we can scarcely suppose the capsule to be concerned in inflammation without the hyaloid at the same time participating in the disease.” The changes which take place in the crys- talline body in consequence of inflammation, are opacity, dissolution of the lens, suppura- tion, as in that variety of cataract called cataracta cum bursa ichorem continente, and ossification. Treatment—The general treatment em- ployed in internal inflammations of the eye, viz. depletion, mercury, counter-irritation and belladonna, in the early stage, and tonics in the latter stages, are the remedies which sug- gest themselves ; but their employment must be regulated and modified according to the circumstances of the case. Dr. Mackenzie mentions the following cir- cumstances in regard to a case of inflammation of the anterior hemisphere of the capsule, which he treated. On the first day of his being called in, tw’o minute spots were seen project- ing from behind the edge of the pupil. Next day there were five. In the course of a week, the symptoms totally disappeared, under the employment of venesection, leeches, calomel with opium, and belladonna. The mouth was made very sore. In the chronic stage, Dr. Mackenzie confesses, however, that this in- flammation has in his hands proved one of the most obstinate. (T. Wharton Jones.') CUPPING. Cucurbitula, Lat. ventouse, Fr. Schrbpfkopf. By cupping is understood the application of one or more glasses on some portion of the skin, in order, by forming a vacuum beneath the glass, and taking off the pressure of the atmosphere, to determine to such parts an afflux of fluids from the neigh- bouring capillaries. For the purpose of deri- vation or revulsion, this momentary engorge- ment is kept up until rubcfaction is produced*