CATARACT. 715 iris, contraction or adhesion of the pupil, symp- toms of amaurosis, such as pains about the head, muscae volitantes, and insensibility of the retina. When these last exist to a consider- able degree, and more particularly when they are accompanied with either enlargement or atrophy of the eyeball, discoloration of the iris, or sclerotic coat, the cases may be con- sidered hopeless, and unfit for operation. Destructive inflammation of the eye is much more apt to take place after an operation per- formed upon persons advanced in life than in young subjects, and more particularly so in those of a rheumatic or gouty constitution. In cases where the sensibility of the retina is doubtful, an operation may be advised, the patient being at the same time informed of the exact state of his case, and allowed to de- cide whether he will rather submit to an ope- ration of uncertain success, or remain in con- tinued blindness. § 10. Treatment of Cataract. It may be laid down as a well established principle, that cataract is quite incurable by any external application, or internal remedy, with which we are at present acquainted. Cataract causes blindness by intercepting and preventing the passage of the light to the retina, the other parts of the eye being entire. But as the crystalline lens and its capsule are not indispensable to distinct vision, they may be removed from the axis of the eye, without the sensibility or usefulness of the organ being impaired. The removal of these parts, therefore, when they become opaque, cither from the axis of vision or out of the eye altogether, becomes desirable for the restoration of sight. Accordingly several surgical operations are practised for the re- moval of cataracts, by which the patient is restored to sight. A spontaneous cure of cataract by absorp- tion may be said to take place in those spurious or adventitious forms of the complaiut, which arise from recent inflammatory effusions on the surface of the capsule of the lens. This may also happen in cases of cataract from in- jury where the capsule has been ruptured, so that solution and absorption of the lens take place by the agency of the aqueous humour. By a blow upon the eye likewise, an opaque lens and its capsule may be de- tached from their connexions, and removed from the axis of vision. In other more rare cases, where the lens has become detached from its connexions, in consequence of dis- organization of the vitreous humour, and has fallen from the axis of vision a spontaneous cure has also happened. M. Boyer mentions an interesting case of a gentleman, who, after twenty-five years blindness, his eye having been considered unfit for operation, suddenly had his sight restored when walking along the street, the detachment of the lens above de- scribed having taken place at its upper half, by which it waved to and fro in the eye *. • Msilad. Chirurg. vol. v. p. 509. All operations for cataract have for their object, the removal of the opaque body, whether consisting of capsule or lens ; but even if the crystalline lens be transparent, it also must be removed; for it would immediately become opaque after any operation upon its capsule. Cataracts may be removed from the axis of the eye in three different ways : 1st. They may be depressed or removed from their situa- tion into the vitreous humour,—an operation which is termed couching, or the depression of cataract. 2d. The cataract may be lacerated and broken to pieces, in order to cause it to be acted upon by the aqueous humour, by which its solution and final absorption are ac- complished. This is termed the removal of cataract by solution or by absorption. 3d. Cata- racts may be extracted or completely removed from the eye, and hence this is termed the removal of cataract by extraction. Each of these operations for the removal of cataracts may be performed in various ways, and by different instruments, each of which have, at different times, had their several advo- cates and opponents. When properly per- formed, and under favourable circumstances, each of them may be equally successful in effecting a cure ; but they are not equally well suited to every case. The operation best adapted to one class of cases, may be quite inadmissible in another. The operation by absorption, for example, is the best suited to cases of soft or fluid cataracts ; while, in such cases, the operations of couching and extrac- tion are quite inadmissible. Hard cataracts may be removed either by depression or ex- traction, though not by absorption ; but there may be circumstances attending individual cases, which may make one of these opera- tions inapplicable, and cause the other to be preferred. Cataracts can be properly treated, there- fore, only by the judicious and proper se- lection of that operation which is known to be best adapted to the nature and circumstances of each individual case. Thus a complete knowledge of the different operations for cata- ract, and the adaptation of them to individual cases, becomes indispensable to every one who would practise properly this branch of surgery. Before proceeding to describe the various operations for the removal of cataracts we shall make a few remarks on the preliminary questions which occur after having ascertained the nature of the case and kind of cataract which is present. $11. Remarks on Preliminary Questions REGARDING THE TREATMENT OF CATARACT. 1. Should an operation be performed if one eye only is affected?—When both eyes are affected with cataract, it is the common prac- tice of operators to perform an operation either upon both, at the same time, or upon one at first, and the other afterwards. It may there- fore be thought remarkable that there should be any question or difficulty as to the pro-