331 FRACTURE. The separation of the bones of the nose from each other, and those naturally in con- tact with them, after a certain period of adult life, is, in effect, a genuine fracture ; and even before this period, in a practical point of view, it may still be regarded as such. The striking body is usually large in pro- portion to the size of the injured part; and, in one sense, the force may be said to be applied immediately to the seat of fracture. This, however, is not strictly correct, for when, by a blow on the extremity of the nasal bones, they are separated at their at- tachments to the frontal or maxillary bones; or when the superior processes of the latter, or the vomer, or the ethmoid bone is frac- tured, the injury must partake of the nature of a counter-fracture. The fragments to which the nasal bones are reduced by violence, sometimes remain in sufficiently good adjustment; but usually they are depressed. In the lighter kinds of injury, if the blow be given in a central direction, the bones will be sometimes spread out late- rally ; if in an oblique line, they will be forced on one side. But, from the more violent causes, they will be altogether driven inwards towards the cavity of the nose. Into what- ever situation they are impelled in the first instance, in that they will remain until the surgeon employs some means to restore them to their proper places ; and if he succeed in replacing them, there will be little danger, with common attention, of secondary displace- ments. If the injury be confined to the bones which compose the nasal arch (the bridge), the principal object will be to prevent de- formity. The very unpleasant deformity, which is rather a frequent consequence of nasal frac- tures, may be supposed to result chiefly from exfoliation, and the contraction of membranes subsequent to inflammation. It is therefore especially important to avoid all unnecessary injury to the bones in the process of reducing them ; and it would even seem better to leave the fragments displaced for several days, than to produce additional disorganization and in- flammation, by re-adjusting them either with force, or protracted efforts at a time when they are most in danger of dying from defective supplies of nutrition. Remembering that ex- cessive displacement may give rise to similar evils to those just referred to ; that the accu- rate coaptation of fragments is of little con- sequence during the first ten days after the receipt of the injury ; and that necrosis is liable to be produced or aggravated by dis- turbance, the surgeon must consider how much may be safely performed at first, and how much he may defer till reparative inflamma- tion has diminished the liability to necrosis, and prepared the way for consolidation of the fragments. If the bones are pushed out in a lateral direction, or forced on either side, external pressure made by the fingers may be suffi- cient to rectify the displacement, raise the bridge of the nose, and bring it into an even position. But if the pieces are driven in- wards, this method will be inapplicable ; or, at least, it must be combined with that com- monly recommended and employed, of intro- ducing into the cavity of the nostril, some instrument, such as a catheter or closed forceps, to act as an elevator to the de- pressed fragments. A convenient mode of restoring fragments of an os nasi to their natural relations, is by means of a pair of common dressing forceps with the blades apart,—one blade being applied to their in- ternal surface, the other to their external sur- face, and so pressing them, as it were, into proper position. To arrest hasmorrhage, if it prove alarming, or even to support the fractured bones, should they be excessively loosened, it may be necessary to introduce plugs of lint into the nostrils ; or, with the view of facilitating respiration, plugs traversed by pieces of gum elastic catheter, or formed of thick tubular India rubber. Since, how- ever, the tubes cannot well reach the frag- ments, to give them due support; and since they must be attended with much inconve- nience, as foreign bodies placed in contact with delicate parts going through a process of inflammation, and in danger of disorgani- zation, the use of such means is of very doubt- ful advantage, and is not to be had recourse to if it can be avoided with propriety. Sir Charles Bell has given his opinion, that no tubes can be employed so as to act effi- ciently ; and we know that the fragments, when displaced, will not readily (unless very much loosened) change their position, as they are acted on by no muscles. It must be allowed, that compresses in the nose can only be needed when the face has been very much crushed ; and it will not be difficult to deter- mine in any particular case, whether the arti- ficial support is at all required, and whether it can be applied with effect. The bleeding which accompanies these ac- cidents, provided it be not excessive, is rather to be looked upon as salutary, and tending to prevent the occurrence of inflammation, a cir- cumstance to be apprehended, from the close proximity of the ethmoid bone to the base of the brain. Depletion and antiphlogistic means are to be employed whenever the accident is of a severe kind, and a cautious prognosis must be offered, in anticipation of the effects that may be produced in the brain from in- flammation and its sequelae, as well as of the more immediate results of the shock. Emphysema of the surrounding integu- ments but rarely results from fracture of these bones. It is of little consequence, ex- cepting as it indicates that the fracture is open internally. Head-ache and threatening inflammations will require depletion and to- pical applications of cold lotions. The lacry- mal sac may become obstructed by ecchy- mosis or inflammation ; and it is even said that, the punctum lacrymale may give out little drops of blood.