189 FISTULA. compensated for by the prevention of the lodgment of matter, the formation of new sinuses, and the almost certainty of complete cure. This eminent surgeon divides the sphincter from within outwards with a probe- pointed bistoury, the cutting edge of which is slightly convex. In general, it gives rise but to a trivial haemorrhage, which is readily checked by the introduction of a dossil of lint into the wound, or by making compression for a short time with the finger; and even should it continue, its source is accessible to the tenaculum and ligature. The complete division of the sphincter must not be made on any part of it indiffer- ently. Tt should not be made towards the coccyx, as it would require an unnecessarily deep incision to reach its most powerful fibres ; nor towards the vagina in females, as the incision would be likely not to heal again, and an incontinence of the faeces would be the disagreeable consequence. The lips of the wound are now spunged, and the extent of its bottom which formed the fistula, and still remains covered with its adventitious membrane, is brought into view. The object of the dressings to be employed has a peculiar reference to this state of the wound ; for if the wound were at once allow- ed to heal, the disease would in all likelihood be reproduced. On this account, it is neces- sary to prevent contact by the interposition between its lips of lint or charpie, until by the effect of the cessation of the irritation caused by the passage of stercoraceous mat- ter, granulations sprout out from the anormal mucous membrane. In this manner the heal- ing proceeds from the bottom of the wound. A soft dossil of lint is therefore introduced from the rectum, between the lips of the wound. Another larger one is placed in the rectum to prevent the displacement of that placed in the wound. Compresses are then placed in the anal cavity, and the whole se- cured by a T bandage. The patient is placed on his side in bed, and an opiate is administered, in order that the dressings may not be disturbed for a day or two. An aperient may then be administer- ed, by which the faeces accumulated since the operation will be evacuated together with the dressings. If the suppuration is not suffi- ciently established, the dossil of lint should be allowed to remain, and a poultice applied to check the inflammation and hasten the formation of the matter. After this, a light dossil of lint, dry, or moistened with some stimulating lotion or ointment should be in- serted daily, its size being gradually diminish- ed until it is left off altogether, in proportion as the cleft becomes filled with granulations. No well-informed surgeon now thinks it ne- cessary to incur gratuitously the danger of extensive and violent inflammation by pack- ing the incision with lint or charpie, as by j free opening in the first instance, and care- fully conducted dressings, the indurations I against which such practice used to be direct- ed are sure to disappear. If the practitioner should commit such an error, the inflamma- tory hardness, pain, bearing down, tenesmus, and fever, must be combated by the removal of the offensive dressings, for which a lighter one is to be substituted; a poultice should be applied, and such other general and local measures employed as the patient’s state demands. In case of too luxuriant sprouting of the granulations, they are to be duly repressed by touching with the nitrate of silver. Under this treatment, the cure is safely and certainly effected. If the incision has been deep, a chink may remain for some time, by which moisture or mucus escapes now and then. Ultimately, however, even this incommodity ceases. The treatment of what is called the incom- plete, or blind external fistula, is so nearly similar to that of abscess in this situation, that it has been to some extent anticipated under that head. If a sufficient opening is made for the free exit of the pus, the cavity will soon be filled up with granulations. This object will be also promoted by injecting the cavity of the abscess with some stimulant fluid, or by compression. When these measures fail, there is still the resource of treating it as a complete fistula; but this will be seldom found neces- sary. Abscesses within the rectum occur, and sometimes result not only in blind internal fistulae, but even perforate the external skin, before their existence has been suspected. In general, this event may be looked for. If, however, the existence of the purulent col- lection should become manifest, whether from the irritation and distress it gave rise to, or not, it would be proper to give it a free vent. Sometimes, too, by this step alone, its conver- sion into a complete fistula is prevented, and a cure is effected. The accidents that may arise during or after the operation, are haemorrhage, or vio- lent inflammation. If the bleeding occurs from only one or two vessels, and is not very abundant, the wound should be sponged with cold water, and the vessels left exposed, when, after the loss of some blood, which will be sometimes advantageous, the bleeding may stop spontaneously, or it may be stopped by keeping a finger on the bleeding vessel for some time. If it does not, a ligature may be placed upon them. If the bleeding be of an oozing kind, cold applications or styptics will generally answer the purpose. Should they fail, the wound should be plugged, and if the patient be a female, the vagina should be plugged also. The rectal plug may be made by folding into the form of a cylinder a suffi- cient quantity of lint, and securing it with a string, which is to be allowed to hang out of the anus; or a piece of fine linen may be in- troduced covering the end of a rectum bougie, and the bougie being withdrawn, its place is packed with lint. The part of the piece of linen hanging out of the anus is secured with a