842 CORNEA. - Figure 6. tions does staphyloma occur in those diseases? Not by Figure 5. in the cornea and synechia anterior, with more or less deformed and contracted pupil. If the prolapse of the iris have exceeded the limits alluded to, it never collapses, but, as will be immediately seen, lays the ground for the formation of astaphyloma of the cornea and iris, partial or complete. Treatment.—The less that is done to the protrusion of the iris the better. The atten- tion ought to be directed to the removal of the inflammation, of which the protrusion of the iris is a remote consequence. Staphyloma of the Cornea and Iris. An opacity, and unnatural prominence of a part or of the whole of the cornea of a grayish white, or mother of pearl, colour. Such is the definition which a first view would suggest of partial or total spherical sta- phyloma of the cornea and iris ; that it is not quite accurate, however, will be shown when the nature of the morbid change comes under consideration. Partial Staphyloma. Objective Symptoms'1.—This is usually situa- ted about the lower or lateral part of the cor- nea, and may vary in extent from a quarter to a full half of the area of that membrane. On close examination, the iris is seen drawn to- wards and joined to the whole inner surface of the opaque projection. The anterior chamber is in consequence much contracted. Accord- ing to the situation and extent of the staphy- loma, so is the pupil more or less involved ;— and that either by direct incorporation of the pupillary margin of the iris, or by opacity ex- tending to the part of the cornea over the pupil. Subjective symptoms.—Vision is impaired in proportion. Besides this, the prominence be- ing on the one hand exposed to the desiccant and irritating action of the air, &c., and on the other, acting as a foreign body, frequent nicti- tation is excited, which serves but to irritate both the staphyloma and eyelids;—whence the weak state of the eye and frequent at- tacks of inflammation. Total spherical Staphyloma. Objective Symptoms2.—In this case there is no longer any remains of transparent cornea ; but its place is occupied by the opaque struc- ture, which forms a prominence so large as to stretch and press out the eyelids, or even to project considerably from between them. Subjective Symptoms.—Vision is totally gone ; but a perception of light and shade, &c., may remain. Course.—The staphyloma may remain sta- tionary, but sometimes it goes on increasing in size till it bursts. This is attended with very severe symptoms, such as distention in the eye, circumorbital pain, preventing sleep and exhausting the patient. On the bursting of the eye, these symptoms immediately sub- side, and if together with aqueous humour the lens and part of the vitreous humour have escaped, the eye does not again become dis- tended, but contracts into a stump, marked with depressions at the places corresponding to the insertion of the straight muscles. If all the vitreous humour has escaped, the mem- branes shrink back in the orbit, and form a small shapeless mass at its bottom. If the aqueous humour only escapes, the staphyloma sinks for a day or two, but soon returns to its former state, when by the closure of the laceration, the aqueous humour is al- lowed to reaccumulate. Pathology.—In consequence of inflamma- tion, the structure of the cornea is changed, the iris adheres surface to surface, and the two together are distended into a more or less extensive opaque prominence. Such, in a few words, was the commonly received opinion regarding the formation of staphyloma of the cornea and iris up to the time I enunciated a different view of the matter1. 1 London Medical Gazette, vol. xxi. p. 847. Lon- don 1838. It may not be irrelevant to mention that Mr. Tyrrell, in his work recently published (vol. i. p. 270), gives essentially the same view. In the new edition of his valuable “ Treatise on the Diseases of the Eye,” just published, Mr. Lawrence devotes a considerable space to a critique of my views regarding the pathology of staphyloma. Whatever Mr. Lawrence writes is sure to carry great weight with it. It is for this reason I think it necessary to examine into the validity of his objections. Mr. Lawrence says, p. 303, “ Mr. Jones finds it difficult to understand how the iris can become adhe- rent to the cornea; yet partial synechia anterior occurs, not unfrequently, without wound or penetrating ulcer, as an effect of acute corncitis, and in conjunction with leucoma.” In answer to this it is to be remarked, that to understand how the iris can become adherent to the cornea, without wound or penetrating ulcer, is not the question : but the question is, “ Is it the fact that the iris does become adherent to the cornea under the cir- cumstances named ?” In reply to this question. 1 havo only to repeat, that I never saw any direct adhesion between the cornea and iris, partial or complete, take place in inflammation of the cornea, of the membrane of the aqueous humour, of the iris, &c. Mr. Lawrence asserts the contrary, but adduces no facts in support of his affirmation. With whom lies the onus vrobandi ! Synechia anterior, in conjunction with leucoma, I have often seen ; and it is in strict conformity with my views : for if the previous history of such a case be ex- amined, penetrating ulceration of the cornea, escape of the aqueous humour, falling forward of the iris, impli- cation of a small part of it in the ulcerated opening of the cornea, and the subsequent incorporation of it in the cicatrice, will be found to have occurred. Mr. Lawrence further objects:—“He (Mr. Jones) enumerates various cases of disease, wound, and opera- tions, involving the cornea, in which no adhesion ot the iris takes place. We cannot hence infer, that the iris will not become adherent to the cornea in the widely different morbid conditions of the organ which lead to the development of staphyloma.” The follow- ing quotation from the paper Mr. L. is criticising, is a ready-made answer to this :—“ But it may be said, it is not in consequence of such inflammations of the eve that staphyloma occurs, but that ‘ purulent, gonorrheal, and variolous ophthalmias are the most frequent causes of staphyloma’ (quotation from Mr. Lawrence’s own work, 1st ed. p. 374). True; but under what condi-