518 BRONCHOTOMY. treniely probable that many of these were nothing more or less than acute laryngitis, or chronic oedema glottidis; and that the cases of Dr. Pitcairn and Mr. Hayes, though the first in which the symptoms were accurately de- tailed, were by no means the first specimens of the disease. In the chronic enlargement of the tonsils, the operation can hardly be necessary, for ex- cision should be performed before they are of such a size as to interfere with respiration ; and even if such obstruction be produced, the excision of the enlarged mass, or the intro- duction of one of Desault’s tubes, will proba- bly be sufficient. 7. Enlargement of the thyroid gland (Bronchocele),—when very great, is apt to cause much obstruction to the respiration. Three operations have been performed for the removal of the disease, or its effects. Excision of the gland, tying the superior thyroid arte- ries, and bronchotomy. Mr. Gooch gives two cases where excision was practised, and the uncontrollable haemorrhage which followed is sufficient to prevent imitation. The thy- roid arteries have been tied by Sir W. Blizard, Walther, and Landshut, and Mr. Coates of Salisbury, and the results have been such, that in most cases this would be preferable to bronchotomy, as the latter could do nothing towards reducing the enlargement, which was the primary cause of the symptoms. Mr. Sharp, however, in his treatise on surgery, mblished in 1761, regards the pressure of a arge bronchocele as the principal ground on which the operation is called for. If suffocation, however, be threatened, bronchotomy should be performed. Desault, even in this case, has advised his tubes ; but their continuance in the trachea would be so likely to produce dangerous inflammation, that bronchotomy appears far preferable. 8. Aneurism of the aorta. Bayle relates a case where an aneurismal tumour compressed the left bronchus, and gave rise to such symptoms, that he says, had he seen the case himself, he is persuaded he should have mistaken it for oedema of the glottis. Dr. Hope says, that bronchotomy has been several times performed, with the view of obviating suffering caused by aortic aneurism. Mr. Lawrence has related the case of a young woman, under twenty years of age, who died, suffocated from an aneurism behind the sternum, pressing on the trachea. Her symptoms were so deceptive, that it was supposed bronchotomy would be required. And it occurred some time since, in London, that an eminent surgeon was charged with malapraxis, for having operated under such circumstances. It becomes an important point, then, to learn how we arc to discover when symptoms of laryngeal disease are produced by aneurism of the aorta, and to inquire how far bronch- otomy is to be recommended in such cases. The first thing which will strike one who has seen instances of the kind, is a want of that proportion between the intensity of the stridor, and the forced efforts at inspiration which always exist in disease at the top of the tube. The patient may have intense stridor, and be making comparatively slight exertion of the auxiliary respiratory muscles. On the other hand, these muscles maybe in a state of the most violent action, especially those of the neck, while the stridor is comparatively very feeble. In disease of the larynx, this want of proportion never occurs. Again, the stri- dor, in disease of the larynx, is louder at some little distance from the patient, than on listening with the stethoscope applied over the parts; in aneurism of the aorta it is directly the reverse. In aneurism the stri- dor often seems to come from behind the sternum—“ the stridor from below,” of Dr. Stokes—its direction is evident, and the patient is himself sensible of it. In the next place, the character of the voice is not altered, or, at least, very seldom ; and when it is, it differs greatly from the alteration produced by la- ryngeal disease, being singularly variable in its tones. The upper part of the sternum, sternal ends of the clavicles, and parts about, should be percussed: if there be dulness it evinces something more than can be accounted for by any disease of the larynx. If this dul- ness be circumscribed, combined with the other symptoms, it will go very far to establish the diagnosis of an intra-thoracic tumour. This will be still further strengthened, if there be any signs of compression of one bronchus, subclavian artery, or the oesophagus, viz. clearness of sound on percussion, with absence or great diminution of respiratory murmur, diminution of the pulse of the atfected side, or dysphagia. This is sufficient to establish the diagnosis of an intra-thoracic tumour ; and from the great frequency of aneurisms compared to other such tumours, we may act as if aneu- rism were the cause of the symptoms. This will further be strengthened, if there be pul- sation, or bruit de soufflet; though it must be remembered, the latter is often absent in aneurism, and the former may arise from the pulsation of an artery being communicated to a cancerous tumour of the lung. The prac- titioner should also be on his guard against the complication of laryngeal disease by aneu- rism, though I am not aware of any such case on record. We may say, then, that if by the signs just enumerated, an intra-thoracic tumour have been discovered, we may act as though it were certainly an aneurism, and that the aneurism is the cause of the symptoms of which the patient is dying. The question is, Would a man be justified in performing bronchotomy under such circumstances ? It was argued at a late meeting of the Dublin Medico-Chirurgical Society, and Dr. Corrigan appeared to agree in the opinion, that aortic aneurisms sometimes produce danger of suffo- cation, not by the mechanical pressure they exert on the trachea, but by exciting irritation