CANCER, TREATMENT OF. 653 be the first symptom ; the patient is some- times led to seek advice for this, before the least swelling’ is to be detected, in a situation where an encephaloid growth afterwards advances with rapidity*. The discovery of the tumour may or may not have been preceded by an impaired state of the general health. The characters of encephaloid growths dur- ing the two latter stages are marked and pe- culiar ; during the third an error of diagnosis is with ordinary attention impossible ; during the second, unless some peculiar circumstances combine to mislead the observer, it is difficult to mistake the nature of the tumour ; during the first—and the characters attributed to this may exist for some time after the new formation has acquired considerable bulk—no small diffi- culty is sometimes experienced in deciding on its nature : if it give rise to no constitutional suffering this difficulty may be insurmountable, until the ulterior progress of the affection shall have been watched ; a fact which proves the necessity of caution in the prognosis of incipient tumours. The nature of the tumour being ascertained, its limits and original seat require to be made out. Careful examination both of the growth itself and of the adjoining vessels and nerves is essential for this pur- pose ; the commemorative symptoms, also, will throw light on its original site, and the latter in turn clear up the question of its existing relations. If the disease originate under a fascia there is more than ordinary density and resistance. Encephaloid cancer, springing from the substance of the bones of a ltmb, “ begins in general enlargement of the limb in the part opposite to the seat of the complaint and to a considerable extent around itif in the subperiosteal cellular membrane “the gene- ral swelling of the limb is less, and the parti- cular tumour more prominent ” than when it has a truly osseous origin1 2. But to pursue this subject further would be to encroach on the article Tumour. If the growth be situated in such manner as to admit of being completely excised along with a thick layer of sound tissue, this may be done; if not, the limb affected may be ampu- tated ; if seated where there is a doubt re- specting its limits (as is often the case in the neck) and where amputation is inapplicable, instrumental interference of any kind will only hasten the patient’s destruction. III. Muscles. Encephaloid tumours originate in the cellu- lar membrane separating the fasciculi of mus- cular fibres, but they acquire no peculiarity from their situation, and follow the same course as subcutaneous growths. IV. Subcutaneous Glandular Parts. 1. Non-secreting, (a.) Lymphatic Glands. — Primary carcinoma of the lymphatic glands, of most common occurrence in the groin, ax- 1 Travers, Op. cit. vol. xvii. p. 394. 2 A. Cooper, Surg. Essays, Part i. p. 194. ilia, and neck, is generally of the scirrhous species. In the early stages it may be undis- tinguishable from chronic induration and hy- pertrophy ; the ineflicacy of treatment of any kind being in some instances the first circum- stance which excites a suspicion of the nature of the case. After having been for a certain time smooth and even, the enlarged gland becomes knotty. The subsequent progress of the disease is that observed in scirrhus of the mamma, but ulceration is more slow to occur ; and in many cases a sort of excoriation of the investing skin attended with ichorous dis- charge, and alternately healing and opening afresh continues for a length of time. Of this mode of progress of the disease an excellent example is contained in Mr. Travers’ Essay (Op. cit. vol. xvii. p. 3(i5.) Encephaloid disease more rarely originates in these structures. One of the most remark- able cases of this kind on record, in which both the external and internal glands were affected, was observed by Dr. Carswell at the Hopital St. Louis, and has been published by Dr. Hodgkin*. The spleen and tonsils were the only other parts diseased in the same manner. A somewhat similar case is related by Mr. Wardrop (p. 157). These are deci- dedly unfavourable cases for operation. (b.) Thyroid Gland.-—Unless as a com- plication of pre-existing encysted disease or other form of bronchocele, cancer of the thy- roid gland is singularly rare. Under the for- mer circumstances scirrhus is the species in which the disease most commonly exhibits itself. The case recorded by Velpeau, and already frequently alluded to, furnishes an excellent example of carcinoma of this structure, per- fectly independent of adjoining cancer or of any preformed disease in the part itself. “ The thyroid gland contained about a dozen cancers, all perfectly round, dense, elastic, and of a slightly yellowish white colour. The section of these presented a blueish tint, and when cut into slices the transparence, charac- teristic of scirrhous tissue, became apparent. The largest of them equalled a pigeon’s egg in size, the smallest was less than a pea in bulk. All of them were easily separated from the substance of the gland (which was itself perfectly healthy) and were simply in a state of contiguity with it2.’’ Scirrhus of the thyroid gland is distinguish- ed, according to Bayle, from ordinary bron- chocele by its greater hardness and more uniform consistence in all its parts. It rarely presents that regularity of form which goitres almost always retain ; if it be lobulated, its lobes are much less distinct than those of the latter disease. It may affect the entire gland or only one of its divisions. The same observer acknowledges the im- possibility of ascertaining with certainty, dur- ing the life of the patient, whether an indo- ' Med. Chir. Trans, vol. xvii. p. 90. 2 Cas Remanjuable, &c. p. 40.