CONGELATION. 815 fered much less from the cold than the Dutch, the Hanoverians, and the Prussians. Even the Russians themselves, he had reason to believe, lost more men in proportion to their number than the French. He further remarks, that of the Russian and Polish troops, those from the southern provinces suffered least. He infers from these observations, that the inhabitants of southern countries possess a greater power of resisting cold than the inha- bitants of the north. The facts mentioned by Larrey are of high importance, whatever ex- planation is to be given of them. We may, however, be allowed to suggest, in reference to the influence of habit, that it is not quite correct to suppose that the inhabitants of northern countries, because their winters are long and severe, are, on that account, inured to the long continued action of cold. They spend their winters far less in the open air than in apartments artificially heated to a tem- perature far above summer-heat. We believe it will be acknowledged by every Englishman who has passed a winter in France or Italy, that he never suffered so much from cold in his own comfortable home, as he did in those countries, where good fires are unknown, and where the houses are constructed more with the view of admitting the refreshing breezes of summer, than to guard against the winter’s cold. The symptoms of a general kind produced by cold are pretty uniform in character. Few people pass many winters in our own country without experiencing those which first occur— an intense sensation of cold with numbness and stiffness, chiefly felt in the limbs. If the exposure to cold be prolonged, the sensibility of the surface of the body is more and more impaired till at length the extremities of the limbs become quite insensible to all external impressions. As the sensibility declines, the limbs become more and more stiff, and require a greater effort to put them in motion. But the sufferer is little disposed to make any ad- ditional effort, for with the inaptitude to mo- tion in the limbs there comes on an indisposi- tion to make the exertion necessary to perform it. This indisposition to move soon passes into drowsiness, and so overpowering is the desire to sleep, that it cannot be resisted even by those who are perfectly aware that by in- dulging it their lives are placed in the most imminent danger, and that their only safety consists in moving about. As soon as sleep creeps on, the cold has secured its victim, who is no longer capable of any effort to save him- self, and whose only chance of life depends upon his being rescued by others from his fatal lethargy. If left to his fate, the vital heat first forsakes the extremities of the limbs, which are completely congealed, and the cold encroaches nearer and nearer to the centre of the system. There is reason to believe, however, that the action of the heart is arrested before any con- siderable portion of the body is completely frozen, and most probably while the tempe- rature of the circulating blood is not much reduced under 60° of Fahrenheit’s thermo- meter. On the cessation of the contraction of the heart, all power of further resistance to the cold is lost, and the body, no longer ani- mate, and only subject to the law of physics, speedily assumes the temperature of the am- bient air, and becomes a rigid and frozen mass. Occasional deviations occur from the regu- lar course of symptoms which we have just de- scribed. Thus there have been instances of persons being buried in the snow, or otherwise exposed to the inclemency of the weather, with- out having experienced any tendency to sleep, although the cold has been so severe as to congeal the extremities of the body '. On the other hand, a state of complete stupor has been known to take place at a very early period, before the limbs had at all lost their flexibility, and w’hile the current of blood, judging from the state of the pulse at the wrist, still continued to flow, although with diminished force, to the extremities of the body 2- In speaking of the local effects of cold, we shall have occasion to distinguish a primary stage of torpor, or diminished action, and a secondary stage of increased action. A simi- lar distinction, although for the most part much less remarkable, obtains with respect to the general effects of cold. On the sudden ap- plication of heat to the body, while benumbed with cold, a state of general fever comes on, sometimes accompanied with symptoms of con- gestion of blood in the brain or lungs, which proves suddenly fatal. “ Woe to the man,” says Larrey, in his account of the Russian campaign3, “ who, when benumbed with cold, entered suddenly a warm chamber, or ap- proached too near the great fire of the bivouac. Either the benumbed parts were suddenly struck with gangrene, or the individual was all at once suffocated by a sort of turgescence, which seemed to take place in the pulmonary and cerebral systems, and he died as from asphyxia. Thus perished the apothecary in chief of the guard of M. Suveau. He had arrived at Kouno without accident, only his strength was reduced by the cold and absti- nence ; he was offered shelter in a very warm chamber of the pharmacy of the hospital: scarcely had he passed a few hours in this new atmosphere, when his limbs, which he no longer felt as part of him, became swollen and puffy, and soon after he expired in the arms of his son and one of his assistants, without being able to utter a single word.” Symptoms of re-action, somewhat similar, showed themselves in many of the French soldiers who perished by the waysides during the retreat. They were seized before death with a kind of idiotism, feebleness, or com- plete loss of sight, difficulty of articulation, and nasal or pulmonary hsemorrhagies. Even in this state they were under the direful ne- 1 Thomson on Inflammation, p. 624. 2 Edin. Med. and Surg. Journal, vol. i. p. 302. 3 Memoircs, tom. iv. p. 134.