496 BLOOD-LETTING. The patient being in the recumbent pos- ture, or seated on a low chair, with the head turned on one side, and resting on an assistant, the surgeon explores the course of the artery, and marks with ink the situation of his inci- sion. Supposing that he hleeds from the left temple, he fixes the vessel, by pressing on it with the index and middle fingers of the left hand, leaving between them the ink mark un- covered for a little way on each side. If the artery be superficial, and pulsates strongly to the touch, the integuments and vessel may be divided at a stroke, if not, the first incision divides the integuments only; the artery is then seen lying on the aponeurosis, which covers the temporal muscle, and may be punctured with the point of the instrument. Ordinarily the integuments are first divided, the puncture or complete section of the artery forming the second step of the operation. The performance will be facilitated, if the patient keep his jaws firmly locked, as the artery meets the knife with more resistance, it being supported by the contracted temporal muscle. Some surgeons make the first incision by first pinching up the skin, and then dividing it. The course of the artery is generally about an inch above the zygoma, and nearly two inches forward from the ear. If it be desired to obtain any considerable quantity of blood, the puncture should be made on the trunk of the vessel, half an inch above the zygoma ; indeed the general objection to arteriotomy is that a sufficient quantity of blood cannot be obtained, and the surgeon is in consequence obliged to have recourse to venesection ulti- mately. When the opening is sufficiently large, the blood flows per saltum. When it flows languidly and in a small stream, it may be assisted by pressing the vessel with the finger above the puncture, or by gently fillip- ping the trunk itself, while the patient at the same time is directed to move the lower jaw as in the act of mastication. The blood should be prevented from streaming into the ear or down the cheek, and with this view, the French surgeons recommend forming a chan- nel for it with a piece of card-paper. If the artery has been completely cut across, the bleeding in general ceases spon- taneously. This will also happen in most cases where the vessel has been merely punc- tured. The lips of the wound are then brought together with adhesive straps, and the gra- duated compress and roller are at once ap- plied, making a few turns of the latter round the forehead, occiput, and over the temple with moderate pressure. If haemorrhage should recur, the bandage must be removed, and the vessel divided completely ; this will allow the divided extremities to retract, when the bleeding will immediately cease. When the artery has been thus divided, neither haemorrhage nor aneurism are to be feared as a consequence. Phlebotomy (from <p\ti|/, a vein, and rtpvai, to cut), or venesection, is the common mode of blood-letting, and may be performed at the bend of the arm, at the ankle, on the external jugular vein, the brachial or cephalic vein in its ascent to join the axillary, the veins on the back of the hand and foot, the frontal veins, and those under the tongue. The place of election is the bend of the arm, and for the anatomy of the veins of this region, the reader is referred to the article under that head. Fig. 155. Fig. 155 represents arteriotomy of the temporal artery and its frontal branch, and venesection of the jugular, cephalic, and brachial veins, a, the frontal artery divided; b, b, the graduated compresses ; c, the temporal divided; d, the operator's finger, making pressure on the jugular vein ; e, the incision of the in- tegument to eapose the cephalic vein which runs up- wards between tlte deltoid and pectoral muscles ; f the brachial vein. Venesection, though one of the commonest operations in surgery, is by no means generally well performed. The instruments necessary are a bandage to compress the veins, and to bind the wound afterwards, a lancet, which should be clean and sharp, a vessel to receive the blood, a compress, and a glass of pure water. When the operation is performed at the bend of the arm, the patient may be placed in the sitting, or in the recumbent posture, according to the object in view. In opening a vein, it is necessary to stop the current of blood by compressing the vessel between the point to be punctured and the heart; the bandage must therefore be applied, in bleeding at the arm, just above the elbow, but not at too great a distance, as otherwise the vein would yield and roll before the point of the lancet. A few lines above the point of puncture will be sufficient. The bandage should be applied with a tightness sufficient only to interrupt the current of blood in the