EAR, AND HEARING, DISEASES OF. 41 The renewed deafness in Case IV. corre- sponded very closely with nervous deafness, as it is commonly described ; but that it was owing to inflammation of one or more of the parts of the ear, the history of the case leaves not a doubt. There still existed the enlarge- ment of the tonsils and the chronic inflam- matory affection of the mucous membrane of the throat and nose. The frequent aggrava- tion of the state of the latter proved a great hindrance to the employment of the local treatment of the ear; catheterism having been always desisted from when it caused the slight- est distress. As blindness, without any lesion of the parts of the eye accessible to our examina- tion, is put down as amaurosis or disease of the optic nervous apparatus, so the cases of deafness we are considering have been indis- criminately put down as nervous deafness. But that this is going too far will be evident when it is remembered, that we can observe directly the condition of parts of the eyeball, besides the nervous, a lesion of which is sufficient to interrupt its function. Whereas there are many structures, besides the expansion of the auditory nerve, in and on the labyrinth, the state ot which we cannot ascertain by any examination, but disease of which might ne- vertheless be as efficient a cause of deafness as cataract, closed pupil, or opacity of the cornea, is of blindness. Several years ago Mr. Swan enunciated the opinion, that in a great proportion of habitu- ally deaf persons the auditory nerves are not affected. In the ears of many such persons, he had found on dissection a thickened state of the lining membrane of the cavity of the tympanum, involving the small branches of the tympanine nerves. He therefore thinks the deafness in such cases dependent on affec- tion of these nerves. Perhaps, however, the mere change in the lining membrane, and the consequent effect on the fenestrae, ossicles, and membrana tympani are sufficient to explain the impediment in the perfect transmission of sound. The lining membrane of the tympanic ca- vity being fibro-mucous—at once periosteum and mucous membrane — inflammation of it will vary in its nature and consequences. It may be at one time simply the catarrhal affec- tion of a mucous membrane ; at another, the violent purulent otitis interna, in which the surrounding osseous textures become so rea- dily involved. The morbid state of the lining membrane of the middle ear I am attempting to illustrate, appears to be of the nature of periosteal swellings. On dissection, the mem- brane, which is naturally very thin and trans- parent, has been found thickened and swollen, sometimes to such a degree as to bury the ossicles and overlap the fenestrae, as the con- junctiva does the cornea in chemosis. It was mentioned, when treating of the affections of the external auditory passage, that the lining integument at the bottom is sometimes seen tumid, and lying over the membrana tympani in a similar manner. Besides thickening of the lining membrane of the middle ear, false membranes have been found extending from one wall of the tympanic cavity to the other, —sometimes binding the membrana tympani to the inner wall, as the eyelid is to the eye- ball in symblepharon,—sometimes closing the openings into the mastoid cells. The mem- brane of the fenestra rotunda has not unfre- quently been found ossified, and there are instances in which the base of the stapes was united by ankylosis to the margin of the fe- nestra ovalis1. Ankylosis has also been ob- served between the malleus and incus2, and between the incus and stapes3. The following was the state of the cavity of the tympanum in 41 dissections of the ear, detailed by Mr. Toynbee in a paper read be- fore the Medical and Chirurgical Society, 22nd June, 1841 :— DISSECTIONS. In a healthy state 10 With simple thickening of the invest- ing membrane 6 With bands of adhesion passing from various parts of the cavity of the tympanum, most frequently con- necting the stapes to its circum- ference 4 With slight thickening of the invest- ing membrane accompanied by the existence of bands of adhesion ... 13 With considerable thickening of the investing membrane, and the pre- sence of bands of adhesion 5 With suppuration in the cavity of the tympanum 1 With ankylosis of the base of the stapes to the circumference of the fenestra ovalis 2 41 The organs which formed the subjects of the above dissections were taken indiscrimi- nately without any reference to the state of hearing before death ; indeed as concerns this point, the previous history of the cases of the bodies from which thirty-nine of the ears were taken is unknown. Notwithstanding this the dissections are highly valuable, by showing the great frequency of a morbid state of the membrane lining the tympanum. Treatment.—The morbid conditions of the middle ear above described as having been found on dissection, in numerous instances, is, I am of opinion, that which in various degrees constitutes the efficient cause of deafness in most habitual cases. If this be correct, it is easy to understand why so little success at- tends our curative efforts after the disease has become fully formed. The air-douche and the injection of ethereal vapours, assisted 1 Valsalva, de Aure humana tractatus. Bonon. 1704. cap. ii. §. 10. p. 30. 2 Meckel, Diss. dc labyrinthi auris contends. Ar- gent. 1777. Thes. ix. 3 Hyrtl, Med. Jahrbiicher des k. k. ostcrreich. Staatcs, Bd. xx. p. 440 and 452.