FRACTURE. 282 admit of no doubt, that with skilful manage- ment, this poor lad might have had his limb restored to him i n a few weeks, as fit for every office as it was before the accident ; and that his having so nearly lost his life, and his loss of a member so necessary to enable him to earn a livelihood, are to be attributed to the barbarous ignorance with which the bandage was applied too tightly at first, and to its not being loosened or removed when the inflammatory tumefaction occasioned it to act as a stricture, and so directly determine the mortification. There are four general methods of treating common fractures in use at the present day, each of which has warm advocates in some of the most celebrated schools of practical sur- gery. These methods are, the treatment with the fractured limb extended in the hori- zontal posture ;—that with the limb semi- flexed, placed, when it is the lower extremity, on the double inclined plane ;—that with the limb encased in the starched bandage and pasteboard splints; and that with the limb suspended, technically known by the name of hyponarthecia (vno, beneath, and vcip9ifi, giant fennel, the stalks of which were used by sur- geons in ancient times for making splints). Of this last method of treatment I can say nothing from my own experience. What I shall say respecting it must therefore be taken on the authority of its inventor and advocates. With regard to the three first, I think it will appear from the account I shall give of them, that we ought not, in practice, to give an ex- clusive preference to any one, inasmuch as cases will often be met with peculiarly adapted to each method of treatment ; at the same time, I am decidedly of opinion that a gene- ral preference, over the other two, should be given to the system of treatment with the limb semi-flexed. The system of treatment with the limb ex- tended is not adopted in fractures of the upper extremity, except in fractures of the olecranon. Indeed in this case we place the limb in extension for the very same reason as that for which, in other fractures, we prefer semi-flexion ; viz. because we thereby relax the muscle, the contraction of which sepa- rates the fragments. In the lower extremi- ty we are sometimes obliged to have recourse to the extended position; because it proves, though this is not generally the case, less fatiguing to the patient than the double-in- clined plane, and because a force of permanent extension may be required to maintain the reduction, which cannot be, so conveniently, or at all, kept up with the limb semi-flexed. The advantages of the straight position in fractures of the femur I admit to be very considerable ; they are so great, that, in these countries, it is often adopted, and on the continent decidedly preferred to the semi- flexed. They are these. When the reduction is maintained with long straight splints, the extent of continuous plane on which the limb lies gives it great steadiness, and the reduction can, certainly, be preserved with a less con- stant superintendence on the part of the sur- geon, and less frequent examinations of the limb, than when it lies on the double inclined plane. The two limbs lying side by side ad- mit of more easy comparison with one ano- ther. Permanent extension can be more rea- dily kept up, and with greater force, where that is found necessary to preserve the natural length of the limb. It is less necessary, than where the double inclined plane is employed, to pay strict attention to the condition of the bed where it supports the pelvis. The cases, in which the double-inclined plane completely triumphs over the straight position, are those in w'hich the reduction of the fracture can only be effected with diffi- culty, or not at all, without first relaxing the muscles about the fracture by semi-flexing the neighbouring joints. In these cases, while the irritability of the muscles persists, the advan- tages of the double-inclined plane, or semi- flexed position, are inestimable. The atten- tion of the profession was first directed to the advantages to be derived from the adoption of this position, in the treatment of fractures by Pott. That excellent surgeon, inculcating his doctrine with the earnestness of an inventor, and supporting it by strong reasons, in the simple, clear, and forcible language by which all his writings are distinguished, could not fail to make a deep impression on English sur- geons. Since his time, accordingly, his prin- ciples have been very generally adopted in these countries. In fractures of the femur it is not precisely his practice that is to be re- commended, or that is at present followed. He placed the limb with the thigh flexed on the trunk, and the leg on the thigh, resting on its outside, the patient of course lying on the side of the injury. There are serious objec- tions to this practice. The position of the patient on his side, is unstable, and there- fore the fracture is liable to disturbance ; and the position of the limb almost precludes the possibility of comparing the two limbs by measurement, during the progress of the treat- ment, so as to ascertain that the reduction is maintained in such a manner as to ensure the consolidation of the fracture without shorten- ing, or other deformity of the limb. In the last place, this method hardly admits of the application of any permanent force of exten- sion. Happily, it is possible to avail ourselves of Pott’s principle, and yet avoid the disad- vantages just enumerated of his practice. Modern surgeons do this by placing the pa- tient supine, steadily supported on the broad surface of the back, with the limb resting on its posterior surface on the double-inclined plane. In this way we can, at pleasure, place the two limbs in the same posture, and com- pare them ; uncover the outer part of the fractured limb and measure it accurately; and, if requisite, apply considerable force of permanent extension, in a manner that will be explained when we come to the consider- ation of fractures of the femur.