AMPUTATION. 163 ing this amputation was to form two flaps, which may be accomplished in two ways :— First,—The hand in pronation, a semilunar incision, extending from one styloid process to the other, with the convexity towards the fingers, carried across the hand, forms a dor- sal flap (z, y, fig. 12). This is dissected up to the joint, the dorsal and lateral ligaments are cut through, and the joint is laid open, the carpus is luxated, the knife on the flat gets in front of the carpal bones, and a sufficient pal- mar flap is formed. It will be necessary to raise the knife at the side of the pisiform bone, to avoid including it in the flap. Second,—The hand in semipronation, the surgeon passes a slender double-edged knife on the flat, across the front of the joint, from the styloid process on one side, to the same point on the other. Before penetrating with the knife, he relaxes the soft parts, as much as possible, by bending the hand on the fore- arm ; the protuberances of the scaphoid and pisiform bones are avoided by elevating the edge of the knife at these points : the hand is then extended, so as to level the soft parts, and make the flap more regular, and the knife is carried out, the surgeon cutting to- wards himself; or the flap may be formed, by carrying the handle of the knife in a circular sweep from one side of the hand to the other, in such a manner as to form a long semi- circular flap out of the palm. The hand is then turned into pronation, and another semicircular dorsal flap is formed, and dissected upwards as high as the joint. The hand is then put into the semiprone position, and the edge of the knife, entering at the styloid process, makes a clear section of all the ligaments, and separates the hand from the forearm. 1 his plan is more prompt and brilliant than the preceding one; but the results of either of these plans are not so advantageous as those of the circular method, which conse- quently deserves the preference. A single flap, taken from the palm of the hand will afford a sufficient covering, when the soft parts on the back of the hand are unfit to form a second flap. In such a case, it should be more ample in order to compensate for the want of the dorsal flap. It is unnecessary to repeat the direct- ions for forming it. The arteries to be tied or twisted are the radial and the ul- nar ; the haemorrhage will often be arrested by compression alone. The interosseous ar- tery is too small to require any particular attention. Fig. 19. Amputation at the wrist-joint, with a single flap, formed from the soft parts of the palm of the hand, the hand itself in pronation; the articular ends of the radius and ulna, with the tendons of the plexor muscles of the fore-arm, are seen in the wound. Fig. 20. No. 1. Fig. 20. Front view of the arm, and ’S'- 21. fore-arm, representing the lines of in- cision for amputations of the superior extremity, by the circular, flap, and oval methods. No. 1, b,c, a, single flap, fore-arm; f e, d, double flap at the lower part of the arm; h, </, single flap from the outside of the upper part op' the arm; i, l, g, an external and internal plap for aihpu- tation of the arm at the shoulder- joint ; n, m, g, two oblique incisions, Guthrie's or Velpeau's method for the same. No. 2. a, b, circular of the fore-arm; d, c, the same higher up; c, /’ d, double plap in the thick of the fore- arm,—a portion only of the line of the external flap is visible ; g, e, cir- cular incision for amputation at the 11- elbow-joint; i, o, h, a single flap f rom the inside of the arm,—circular and perpendicular incisions, or double plap, according to Hessclbach,for am- putation at the shoulder-joint; i, k, m, an anterior and posterior flap for the same disarticulation (Dupuy- tren). Fig. 21 represents in lines, the various incisions made in the circular, flap, and oval methods of amputating on the fore-arm, arm, and shoulder. circular method on the fore- No. 2, back view, c, b, a, single flap, from the soft parts on the front of thefore-arm ;fe,d, double flap at the middle of the arm; h, o,a, amputation of the humerus, a single external flap ; 1, m, n, disarticulation of the humerus by two flans, according to Dupuytren's plan; i, s, r, disarticulation with* two flaps, Guthrie's plan. M 2 , back view: a, b, arm; d, c, on the lower part op' the arm; p\ e, middle of the arm ; n, g, i, single flap on the upper part of the arm ; m, h, s, disarticulation op' the hu- merus, by the double flop, according to Hesselbach's plan ; r, o, Larrey's improved plan, a double flap, anterior, and posterior.