AMPUTATION. 123 by amputation in one scale, and in the other, the danger to life and health from the lesion treated without amputation, and let the de- cision be made in favour of that plan of which the danger to life and health is decidedly out- weighed. Where the two plans are equally balanced, and in cases of doubt, the decision should be in favour of that which causes the less pain, and leaves the body the more perfect in form, or with the less deformity or curtail- ment. In cases of doubt, the surgeon will, there- fore, abstain from using the knife. As we have dwelt a good deal upon the severity of the loss of a limb, with a view to impress the practitioner with the nature of the weighty duty he has to perform, when called upon to decide whether amputation is proper or not ; and in order that he may give the subject his utmost attention, we are bound also to re- mark, that he must not allow his judgment to be influenced by considerations arising from a mistaken notion of what humanity dictates, and which are sometimes pressed by others. What is right is humane, in this as in most other cases. It is humane to amputate, and inhuman not to amputate where the necessity is pointed out by the rule we have supported, just as much as it would be inhuman to ampu- tate, and humane not to amputate whenever the rule does not prescribe the operation. It is not in treating of this operation that we need defend the profession against the impu- tation, sometimes attempted to be cast upon it, of allowing the fondness for operating to influence its decisions. The amputation of a limb is always a painful duty to the surgeon. In some operations it is not so: in removing a tumour dangerous to life, he may, indeed, execute the task with a feeling of satisfaction ; for he knows that he is extirpating morbid matter, that he is dislodging an enemy. But when amputating a limb, he feels that he is taking away an integral part of the body, which cannot be replaced, for the uses of which there is no substitute, and for the loss of which there can be no compensation. It is, perhaps, true, that amputation is gene- rally considered the most wonderful of all ope- rations. The notion that prevails in the minds of the uninformed, of the parts entering into the composition of a limb, cannot be so very vague, since we hear persons every day ex- press astonishment that it should be in the power of man to remove the limb of his fellow with knife and saw, stopping the streams of blood that burst from the wound, and so facili- tating and hastening its cure that the rest of the body is preserved sound, and in a brief space of time scarcely a scar remains to tell that the patient was not born without the cur- tailed member. There certainly is no operation which makes the surgeon appear so great; but we trust this will only make him the more cautious never to abuse the masterly privilege, and consent to remove a limb until his duty com- mand it. In every case, after duly weighing all that can conduce to a right opinion, he will retire in close communion with himself and decide to the best of his calmest judg- ment. Thanks to the progress of science, the number of cases in which amputation was formerly had recourse to, is constantly dimi- nishing. As our knowledge of disease, and the modes of counteracting it increase, we are enabled to do more and more without the necessity of resorting to this last expedient. We now come to the enumeration of those diseases and lesions which it is customary to put down as more or less frequently requiring amputation. They are as follows:—Malignant diseases, such as the various forms of cancer ; some tumours not malignant; mortification ; caries ; certain of the severest forms of necrosis; white swellings ; extensive suppuration, with or without ulceration; fractures ; dislocations, and wounds. Malignant diseases.—It is right to perform amputation for these affections, when there are insuperable obstacles to their complete extirpation without it; whether they have their seat in the soft parts, in the bones, or in both. They are, osteo-sarcoma; spina ventosa ; the colloid, hydatoid, and encepha- loid transformations ; the malignant erectile tumour, (fungus hematodes,) and the divers forms of malignant disease in which these or a certain number of them are blended together, with or without other tissues, and which are generally described under the vague terms of cancer and carcinoma. Unfortunately, how- ever, many of these diseases, being not strictly local, but merely part of the effects or mani- festations of an alteration of the solids and fluids generally, break out in the stump or in some other part of the body, especially if energetic measures are not adopted simulta- neously with the operation to correct the vitiated state of the whole system. As we can hardly expect to effect this beneficial change when the malady is of long standing ; and that in some few instances a disease of this sort, which at a late period shows contamination of the whole frame, is so far local at first, that without some local cause it might never have been concentrated suffi- ciently in any one part to break out in an active and destructive form, the sooner the operation is performed the greater must be the chance of a cure. In these cases it is always advisable to amputate as far as possible from the seat of the disease, and whenever practicable to leave an articulation between it and the place of operating. Experience has shown that parts are contaminated, in a great measure, in the ratio of their vicinity to the disease ; and it is for this reason, as well as on account of the more complete removal of tissues decidedly morbid by amputation of the limb affected, than by excision or extirpation of the parts immediately diseased, that the former has sometimes been successful after the latter had failed.