ANEURISM. 229 served, when washing her neck, a pulsating tumour above the sternum, which very slowly, but perceptibly, increased, and it was attended by violent and distressing throb- bings. Small bleedings were then frequently had recourse to ; she took digitalis, was kept on a low diet, and in a state of the most per- fect quiet. This plan of treatment alleviated the severity of the symptoms, and seemed to stop the progress of the disease. The tumour, however, soon increased most rapidly in bulk, giving rise to great difficulty of respiration, cough, distressing sense of suffocation, and vio- lent throbbing in the tumour and neck ; the integuments covering the apex of the swel- ling had also become painful. Accordingly, on the sixth of July (1827), I performed the following operation :— The arm was placed downwards and back- wards, and the head turned to the left side. I found great advantage from placing a solid semicylindrical block of wood under the neck, for securing the head in a steady position. Two incisions were made through the integu- ments—one parallel to and immediately above the clavicle, fully four inches in length ; and the other parallel with, and immediately above the edge, of the clavicular portion of the mas- toid muscle. These two incisions met at an angle upon that muscle close to its insertion in the clavicle ; the superior termination of the incision extended close to the external jugular vein, which was not endangered. In- stead of first dissecting back the skin, then the platysma myoides, and the cervical fascia successively, I made the incision at once through these parts, safely guided in doing this by cutting down as deep as the fibres of the sterno-mastoid muscle. I was thus ena- bled, by one dissection, to raise a triangular flap composed of skin, platysma myoides, and fascia. By this method, the supra-clavicular space was distinctly exposed, and the numer- ous veins and arteries were only once divided. I allowed the bleeding of these, which was by no means profuse, to cease ; and it was not necessary to tie any of the divided vessels. The remaining part of the operation was per- formed with a blunt-edged silver knife, and so trifling was the haemorrhage, that every part concerned in the subsequent steps of the operation could be distinctly seen. The fat which fills up the supra-clavicular cavity, in which the subclavian artery lies, was pushed aside, and the deep fascia which extends between the omo-hyoideus muscle, and the first rib, and which in this case was remarkably strong, was exposed. A single silk ligature of moderate thickness was tied round the vessel; the wound was closed up by a few stitches and adhesive plaster. The pulse at the wrist now ceased ; no pulsation could he detected in the right carotid artery or its branches. There was an immediate relief in her breathing, which became free and tran- quil ; and this change was more striking, as during the preceding twenty-four hours she had suffered an unusual degree of suffocating dyspnoea. The peculiar sensations which she complained of in her head were also removed. Although it could not be positively asserted that the tumour diminished, there was cer- tainly no increase of its size, and the patient herself distinctly expressed, that she felt a decided diminution in the force of the beat- ing ; and this was confirmed by my own ob- servation. Twenty-four hours after the operation a very slight pulsation could be observed at the wrist, which continued without an increase of force ; the temperature of the arm was not altered. The remarkable relief which she experienced in her breathing continued, as well as the diminution in the throbbing of the tumour, immediately after the operation; nei- ther did the uneasy feelings in her head return. She also enjoyed very refreshing sleep, of which she had long been deprived. The anxious character of her countenance entirely subsided, and there only remained that appearance which belongs to a person who has undergone considerable depletion. The operation was not followed by any febrile excitement; and, although the pulse continued rather more full and frequent than natural, the skin remained cool and moist, the tongue clean, and the bowels perfectly regular. On the ninth day after the operation, a pulsation became perceptible in the carotid artery, which gave rise to much speculation. Some were inclined to consider it owing to the inosculation of the vessel with those of the opposite side, the blood thus arriving at the trunk from its extreme ramifications. This opinion seemed to be strengthened by the fact, that the pulsation was at first stronger in the temporal branch, than in the carotid itself. It seemed to me, however, more natural to account for this circumstance, by supposing that the aneurismal tumour, which formerly rose high in the neck, had, previous to the operation, compressed the carotid, and thus prevented the circulation of blood through it ; and, that the swelling hav- ing now, by the effects of the ligature, become greatly diminished, the pressure had ceased, and a free course now existed for the trajet of the blood. Whatever explanation may appear the most likely, the occurrence itself could not be regretted, since the tumour hav- ing continued gradually to diminish, it tended only to prove more completely the truth of those principles which I advanced, and from a knowledge of which the operation was sug- gested ; and although, had the vessel been altogether blocked up, the aneurismal tumour would by this time have completely dis- appeared, yet, even with the circulation of blood through the carotid, that event would in all probability ultimately arrive. Be that, however, as it may, the patient was brought from a state of great suffering, to one of com- fort, bordering on health. On the 22nd day, the ligature came away, and the wound healed ; and one month sub-