570 CALCULUS. abstracted from the stomach and carried off into the torrent of the circulation long before any food is taken, and the digestive process goes on unimpeded by their presence in the blood. If the patient’s circumstances permit him to leave his ordinary place of residence or business, and betake himself to a watering- place for a few months, he can do this to greater advantage in no circumstances than when he is labouring under a lithic state of the urine. Our own country is deficient in mineral waters that are peculiarly adapted to such a case. But on the continent they abound. At the head of the whole may be placed the waters of Vichy, in the centre of France. No mineral water known contains so much bicarbonate of soda as the hot springs at Vichy; an ordinary tumblerful holds in so- lution nearly eighteen grains of this salt; and two or three glasses taken at intervals in the course of the day, are often sufficient to maintain the urine in a neutral or alkaline state, nay, the mere soaking in a warm bath of the water is sufficient to produce the same effect ’. The waters of Mont d’Or, Carlsbad, Seltzers, Pyrmont, Obersalzbrunn, &c. have the same effect in different degrees ; they each prove beneficial in such cases at all events. Where removal is inexpedient or im- possible, we can supply the place of these natural alkaline waters to a considerable ex- tent, by prescribing the bicarbonate of soda or potash in a proper quantity of thin barley- water, or in simple water impregnated with carbonic acid gas 1 2. Fifteen or twenty grains of the bicarbonate of soda, dissolved in two ounces of water, having a half-pint bottle of our ordinary soda water (water charged with carbonic acid gas) poured over it, makes an artificial mineral water that is extremely plea- sant to the palate, and is taken freely by pa- tients. Could we but subjoin the benefits of the country air, healthful exercise, and relaxation of mind, that are always understood as ele- ments in a visit to a watering-place, we should in general be able to dispense with a removal from home. Chemical examination of lithic urine, and its deposits.—A known quantity, say 1000 grains of the urine, after it has stood for several hours, is to be poured upon a filter of fine bibulous paper, and the fluid separated from the solid parts. Another portion of the urine may be tested for any additional lithic acid it may contain, by having a few drops of muria- tic acid added to it. The precipitation of the lithic acid may always be immediately secured by drying well and warming gently the glass vessel into which the urine about to be ex- 1 D’Arcet, in Ann. de Chimie, 1826. 2 The following is the Receipt in the French Codex for the artificial Vichy water; Carb. of soda, 1 drachm, 56 grains ; chloride of calcium, 11 grains ; chloride of sodium, one-third of a grain ; sulph. of soda, 6 grains ; sulph. of magnesia, 3 grains; sulph. of iron, one-third of a grain ; water, deprived of air, 20 oz.; carb. acid gas, 3 volumes and a half. amined is poured, or by rubbing the inner surface of the vessel containing the urine after a few drops of acid have been added to it, with a rod of wood The colour of the de- posits is best ascertained whilst they are still wet upon the surface of the filter2. The fluid portion is to be treated in the manner recom- mended for ascertaining the amount and re- lative proportions of the principal classes of ingredients entering into the composition of the urine, and for which see Willis on Uri- nary Diseases, p. 25. To examine the nature of the deposits, let a known quantity of any of them be boiled with distilled water, by which any alkaline lithates will be dissolved. The solution being evaporated to dryness, a portion of the ex- tract should have a few drops of nitric acid poured upon it; this will occasion the solution with effervescence of the lithic acid and the lithates. The nitric acid solution being dried by the application of gentle heat, the pink colour characteristic of the purpuric acid (formed by the action of the nitric on the lithic acid) will be evolved, and this tint will immediately pass into a bright purple on the addition of a little caustic ammonia. By this means we detect lithic acid. Another por- tion of the extract being mixed with some caustic lime, if it contains ammonia, this will be discovered by the smell, or by approaching a rod dipped in muriatic acid to the mixture. A third portion of the extract must be burned over the flame of a lamp in a platinum spoon, and the residue tested for alkaline reaction. The nature of the alkali found, whether pot- ash, soda, or lime, is discovered by urging the residue for a moment with the flame of the blow-pipe. If it be soda the outer flame will be coloured yellow3. Potash and lime are dis- tinguished by the solubility of the former in distilled w'ater ; or should the lime exist in the caustic state, when it forms an oxide of the base and becomes soluble, by passing a current of carbonic acid gas through the mixed solution, or adding a few drops of a solution of oxalic acid, it will immediately fall. The presence of the earthy salts—the ammonia-phosphate of mag- nesia, and the phosphate of lime, is known by the insolubility of the deposit in boiling dis- tilled water, and by its ready solubility in di- lute acids, from which the earthy bases are precipitated on the addition of an alkali. The relative proportion of the differently soluble lithates and the insoluble phosphates may be ascertained by digesting a known weight of the mixed precipitate in a sufficient quantity of attenuated caustic potash, or soda, which takes up the lithates, and leaves the earthy phosphates behind. A recent great improvement in the analytic 1 Wetzlar, 1. c. who found lie could obtain a depo- sit of lithic acid by this means, in many cases where the simple addition of an acid failed to produce it. 2 Prout, 1. c. p. 126. 3 Rees, I. cit. p. 74.