FISTULA, LARYNGEAL, TRACHEAL, AND THORACIC. 225 thus to heal the disease by reducing it to the condition of a recent wound, and treating it by suture in the same manner as if the fistula interested any other point of the duct. M. Malgaigne recommends a trial of covering the fistulous orifice with a thin gold plate, secured by pitch, and forcing the saliva thus to take its natural course. The remedy is simple, and deserves a trial. P.S. In a case of salivary fistula of Steno’s duct, arising from abscess, which returned after several successive attempts to cure it by ope- ration, M. Bonnafont employed successfully the following process : Having cut down upon and isolated the ulcerated extremity of the duct, he passed a slender cutting blade in the direction ofthe obliterated duct into the mouth, in order to make a passage for a canula. The canula having been placed in the channel thus made for it, he then passed a ligature through one side of the free end of the duct, and draw- ing it into the canula, secured it in that posi- tion by fastening the ligature to the buccal end of the canula. The external wound was closed at once, and the cure was complete on the fifteenth day. It will not be found an easy matter to dis- sect out the duct from the bottom of an ulcer ; and, when done, the ligature will not hold it in the canula beyond three or four days. After the ligature comes away, M. Bonnafont’s pro- cess differs in no respect from that of Deguise already described. Bibuographv.—Monro, Med. Essays and Observ. Edinb. 1756. Petit, Duphenix, Louis, Morand, and Maisonneuve, in Mem. of the Acad. ofSurgery. Viborg, Vorschlag zu eine verbess. Behandlung der Speichel- fisteln, in der Sammlung der Abhandlung fur Thier- arzte. Copenhagen, 1797. Desault, CEuvres Chir. Siebold, I)iss. sistens Historiam Systematis Salivalis. Jena, 1797. Beclard, Archives Gen. de Med. 1824. Schreger, Grundriss der Chir. Operat. Niirnberg, 3825. Atti, Opuscoli scientifici di Bologna; b. iii. Deguise, Observ. d’ une Fistule du canal de la glande parotide, guerie par un nouveau precede. Journ. de Med. vol. xxi. Beclard and Croserio, Archives Gen. de Med. 1824 et 1825. Vernes, Journ. Gen. de Med. 1828. Bonnafont, Operation de Fistule salivaire du conduit de Stenon par un nouveau precede, in An- nales de Chirurgie Frarujaise et etrangere, 1841. FISTULA, BILIARY, is the result of a solution of continuity, either in the gall blad- der itself, or in the biliary ducts. It occurs in some part of the region of the liver, and always in such case indicates an adhesion between the parts affected and the peritoneum lining the neighbouring abdominal wall. The fistulous communications that may be esta- blished between the biliary ducts and the ali- mentary canal are beyond the reach of sur- gery. In the great majority of cases the fis- tula originates in obstruction of the gall duct by a biliary calculus. The gall bladder becomes distended, adheres to the abdominal wall, and the ulceration advancing to the skin, bile and pus are voided through the external opening, which remains fistulous. This open- ing may appear not only in the region of the liver, but at other, and even remote points of the abdominal walls. VOL. II. If the obstruction should afterwards cease, from the calculus passing through the gall duct into the intestine, the fistula may heal spontaneously, and this may happen also, when a calculus obstructing the fistulous passage is removed by the surgeon. When the fistulous track takes a tortuous course between the walls of the abdomen, the calculus may be arrested, and give rise to the formation of an abscess ; in such a case an attempt should be made for its removal, by opening the abscess. When no abscess has been formed, and the situation of the calculus can be readily ascer- tained by cautious sounding, the fistulous passage should be dilated slowly by means of a tent. When the dilatation is sufficient, the calculus should be seized with a pair of forceps, and withdrawn. If others remain behind, the tent should be still kept in the orifice, until they also are removed. The fistula will then in general close, by means of gentle compres- sion, or cauterization. ^ Bibliography.—Petit, Pere et Fils, Mem. de l’Acad. de Cliirurg. t. i. ii. Morand, in idem, t. ix. Vogler, Museum der Heilkunde, bd iv. Blech, Me- dicinische Bemerkungen. Berlin, 3774. Richter, Anfangsgriinde der Wundarz. Gottingen, 1801. FISTULA, LARYNGEAL, TRA- CHEAL, and THORACIC. Fistula of the larynx or trachea may follow wounds and con- tusions, the discharge of the contents of an abs- cess, or arise from ulceration depending on syphilitic or tuberculous disease. The pecu- liar character of these fistulae is, that they are accompanied with the discharge of air. If the quantity thus escaping be very considerable, the voice may be seriously affected, and even actual aphonia induced. By bending the head forwards, and so temporarily preventing the escape of air, the patient may be enabled to speak. Subcutaneous emphysema rarely occurs in these cases, though (as shown in the article Emphysema) so common an attendant upon acute injuries productive of solution of con- tinuity in these tubes. Doubtless this depends upon the occurrence of adhesive inflammation in the structure immediately surrounding the opening. If the fistula be of small size, cauterization of its borders will suffice to bring about its closure. If it be large, attempts at inducing contraction and adhesion of the edges, con- ducted on ordinary principles, generally fail ; and under these circumstances the patient must be contented with the alleviation of his infirmity, which is afforded by a small silver stopper or plate, whereby the escape of air is prevented, and the power of speaking ensured. There is a marked difference, however, as M. Velpeau observes, in the facility with which the closure of laryngeal and tracheal wounds is obtained, evidently connected with their extent and position in those canals. Wounds of the trachea, unless the tube be completely cut across, generally cicatrize with facility. If the cricoid and thyroid cartilages are the seat of injury, union is commonly also obtainable ; but the case is very different if the