700 CANCRUM ORIS. pearances belong more particularly to the an- tecedent diseases under which the child may have laboured when attacked by gangrena oris. Treatment. — The predisposing causes of gangrene of the mouth act chiefly by debili- tating the constitution and strength of the patient; our first care, then, in the treatment of this disease must be to avoid or neutralise the influence of all predisposing agencies. The patient should be removed, if possible, to a dry, airy locality, and the greatest attention should be paid to cleanliness ; the food must be of a nourishing kind, and the constitution supported by appropriate administration of tonics. The indications of treatment are two- fold ; to renovate, as we have just said, the vital powers, which are commonly depressed in this disease, and to check immediately the progress of the local affection. The surgeon should bear in mind that suspicious-looking ulcers of the mouth in weakly children, and especially in those who are convalescent from eruptive disorders, are very apt to terminate in true gangrene ; the appearances of such ulcers, at their earliest stage, have been already de- scribed ; hence it seems more prudent to com- mence the administration of tonic and strength- ening remedies in the first stage, than to wait, as most writers advise us to do, until the more destructive form of dry gangrene has super- vened. Tonic remedies require to be given for some time before they can act on the con- stitution, and, on the other hand, the slough- ing process, when once fully established, is so rapid as to leave little time for the operation of general remedies. Infusion of cinchona bark is the tonic which is usually employed, combined, as circumstances may require, with sulphuric, hydrochloric acid, &c. During the progress of the disease laxatives must be care- fully administered, in order to free the intes- tinal canal, not only from its vitiated secretion, but from the putrid exhalations of the mouth, which are often swallowed. More reliance, however, is to be placed on the action of local remedies. In the pseudo-membranous and ulcerative forms, when confined to the gums, &c., the diseased points should be fre- quently touched with some stimulant or es- charotic substance. Various remedies have been recommended by different writers. At the Children’s Hospital, Paris, M. Bouneau strongly recommends the chloride of lime to be applied in the following manner. The finger, slightly moistened, is dipped into a bottle containing finely-powdered chloride of lime, and rubbed pretty strongly over the dis- eased points of the mouth. The frictions are repeated every two, three, or four hours, the mouth being cleansed after each by a detersive gargle. M. Taupin, also, speaks very highly of the efficacy of the chloride of lime as a local remedy. The other physicians of the Children’s Hospital employ the chloride in solution, or touch the parts with nitrate of silver, either solid or in a solution containing twenty grains to the ounce of water. American practitioners place much reliance on the sul- phate of copper (i to ii 3 in iv3 of water), which they often combine with powdered cinchona bark. Powdered alum may also be useful as a detergent; the muriated tincture of iron, or the aromatic wine of the French Pharmaco- poeia are recommended by Dr. Webb of Phila- delphia. At the same time that we endeavour to arrest the development of the disease by local stimulants or escharotics, we should be very careful to guard the surrounding tissues from the contact of the matter secreted by the gangrenous ulcers. Frequent ablution of the mouth must be recommended, or when the subjects are very young, injections are to be employed every two or three hours; it will also be prudent to place a small layer of any impermeable tissue between the ulcerated gums and the surrounding healthy parts. Some practitioners even advise that the patient be placed in a prone position, to favour the escape of acrid saliva, &c., but it is almost impossible to make a child preserve this inconvenient posture for any length of time. The above measures are suited to the early stages of gangrena oris ; but when the soft parts begin to mortify rapidly, or when the substance of the cheek is deepty involved, the most energetic treatment is required. Tonics must be liberally administered, and the diet should consist of eggs, beef-tea, or other sub- stances of a nutritious character. The local treatment consists in the application of strong escharotics. The following are the principal remedies of this kind which have been recom- mended by different writers. Actual cautery.—The actual cautery has been employed by Chopart, Dessault, and others, and strongly advocated by MM. Baron and Isnard, who regard it as much superior in its mode of action to any caustic substance. A strong objection, however, to the use of this means consists in the very great difficulty of applying it to the inside of the mouth in young children. But when gangrene has de- stroyed the whole thickness of the cheek, the cautery is the only application upon which any reliance can be placed. MM. Baron, Isnard, and Marjolin, relate cases of cure ob- tained by the employment of this powerful agent, and it has recently been used with suc- cess in this country by Mr. Henry Obre, of the Marylebone Infirmary, upon the recom- mendation of the writer of this article. The subject of one of Mr. Obrc’s cases was a child nine years of age, who was attacked by gangrene of the mouth during the period of convalescence from typhus fever. For seve- ral days the gangrenous spot on the inside of the mouth was touched with muriatic and nitric acids ; quinine was administered, and the patient's strength was supported by a nourishing diet, red wine, &c. The gangrene, however, continued to spread, perforated the cheek, and extended from the commissure of the lips to within an inch of the ear; the actual cautery was freely applied to the ex- ternal surface of the affected cheek, on the