ANEURISM. 217 cavity, and of diminishing the vascularity of the aneurismal sac and adjacent soft parts, to a greater degree than could be accomplished by general blood-letting. Astringents and refrigerants have, along with the application of leeches, a decided influ- ence in abating the local inflammatory symp- toms, and likewise in diminishing the con- gestion of blood in the sac. Of these as- tringent remedies, there is no one more ser- viceable than the acetate of ammonia, or the superacetate of lead, diluted with rose or cam- phorated water. Diluted spirits and vinegar have also been employed for similar purposes, and the choice of these applications should be made according to their effects on the in- dividual case, that being preferable which gives ease, and is most comfortable to the patient; and the best mode of using them, is by covering the tumour with a piece of lint which is kept moist during two or three hours, three or four times a-day. In some cases ice may be employed with advantage, and is to be applied within a blad- der after being sufficiently comminuted. Its use, however, requires great caution, and its application should not be continued when it creates pain or uneasiness. Chemical agents.—It has been attempted, by Sir Everard Home, to cure an aneurism by causing the coagulation of the fluid blood within the sac by the application of heat. “ In a case of aneurism in the external iliac artery, in Chelsea Hospital, for the cure of which I tied the femoral artery below the sac, on the 16th September, 1825 ; finding that this operation neither diminished the pulsation, nor arrested the increase of the size of the tumour, I was led to introduce an acupuncture needle into the centre of the tumour, where the pulsation was most violent, and the fluid state of the blood most distinctly felt: the needle was passed through a small orifice in a bar of steel three inches long, the skin of the thigh was protected by cork, and the needle was heated through the medium of the steel by a spirit-lamp. In a few minutes the patient felt heat and pain in the centre of the tumour, but not very severe, so that the application was continued for fifteen minutes, during which the pulsation in the tumour was diminished ; on withdrawing the needle, the orifice was marked by a single drop of coloured serum. In half an hour, intense pain was felt in the thigh ; but this was not only removed in ten minutes by twenty drops of laudanum, but the thigh and leg became more easy than they had been for the previous twelve hours, and the throbbing in the sac was reduced to an undulation. “ This application of heat was not resorted to till the twenty-eighth day after tying the femoral artery, during which time the swelling had increased considerably in size. The man was forty-three years of age, had served eight- tcen years in the fourteenth dragoon guards, and was a hard drinker. For two days the tumour was easy, and the pulsation had be- come less under the punctured part than higher up towards the belly. The tumour not diminishing, the operation was repeated on the thirty-fourth day from tying the artery; the needle and bar of steel double the size of those before used, and the application con- tinued thirty-five minutes. The internal heat was greater than before, and the pulsation in the tumour much diminished. The needle was with difficulty withdrawn ; a coagulum as hard as sealing wax, the size of a pin’s head, being firmly attached to the middle of the needle. The pain the operation produced subsided in ten minutes ; the internal heat continued twenty-four hours, and the tumour had now a solid feel: he was quite easy for two days, but on the third the pain and pul- sation returned ; also the inward pain in a still greater degree than while the needle was im- mersed, and the tumour was extremely tense. Under these circumstances, on the forty-fourth day after tying the femoral artery, I repeated the application of the acupuncture needle and steel double the size of those last employed : the heat felt internally was very great, but the pain was not much increased ; after it had been immersed twenty minutes, the pulsation all at once stopped, and the needle was imme- diately withdrawn ; the pain in ten minutes went off, and the patient was quite easy. From this time there was no pulsation in the tumour, which to the feel appeared solid, and therefore I considered the progress of the aneurism arrested ; this was in some measure proved by the pulsation remaining violent in the external iliac artery down to the part pressed upon by the sac, but no further. “ Although the patient was free from pain, took his usual allowance of food, and relished his wine and porter as much as before, the foot, about the fiftieth day became cold to the touch, the thigh and the leg oedematous, and about the sixtieth day vesications made their appearance on the foot and leg ; the skin lost its sensibility, and although he had little or no pain, the weight of the thigh took from him all power of moving it. “ These symptoms were the forerunners of mortification ; the pressure from the tumour above preventing the leg from receiving a suf- ficient supply of nourishment; they did not, however, increase, and he remained in nearly the same state till the ninetieth day, when lie died. “ The upper part of the thigh, which had been regularly measured, was found, on the forty-fourth day, to be twenty-four inches, and remained of the same size at his death— three inches and a-half beyond that of the other. “ On the examination of the parts after death, the external iliac artery was found to pass down in the front of the aneurismal sac; it was pervious in its course to the part where the ligature had been made on the fe- moral trunk; there it was plugged up by a small coagulum, beyond which it was imper- vious. The opening into the sac was on the