35 8 ARM, BEND OF. fixed in a silver tube or case with a handle attached to it. If the surface to which it is about to be applied is dry, it must be moist- ened ; the nitrate is then passed over it with more or less rapidity and frequency according to the sensibility of the part, or the effect we are desirous of producing, leaving the surface exposed, wherever that is possible, until it is dry. The eschar, or pellicle, resulting is superficial on the skin, and still more so on the mucous membranes: in the former case it gradually changes from a light silvery hue to black ; and unless much vesication has been excited, separates from the cutis, and peels off about the fifth or sixth day. The solution is best applied by means of a camel’s hair brush or a fine pencil of lint; for conveying it to the back of the fauces, pha- rynx, &c., the sponge attached to the probang is well adapted. The solid lunar caustic is most commonly resorted to for the purposes of repressing exuberant granulations, suspending the pro- gress of certain gangrenous affections, destroy- ing warts, corns, condylomata, &c., and re- moving the callous edges of indolent ulcers, to the surface of which it is also applied with the view of inducing cicatrization. (See art. Ulcers.) A coating formed by it over excoriations of the skin of the sacrum, in bedridden pa- tients, affords an excellent defence to the abraded surface, which will frequently cica- trize beneath it. A similar treatment of superficial burns and scalds has long been successfully followed by Dr. Fricke at the General Hospital of Ham- burg. It is employed with advantage in chronic inflammation of the conjunctiva, in ulceration of the margin of the eyelids, and in ulcera- tions of the cornea, with or without protru- sion of the iris ; the precaution of immediately letting fall a drop of sweet oil upon the spot will prevent its diffusion over the rest of the organ. It is serviceable in checking the ravages of lupus and cancerous ulcerations of the face ; and will be found useful in all inveterate ulcerations, as those, for instance, which occur about the nails. Mr. Higginbottom strongly recommends it in the early stage of whitlow, and even after suppuration has taken place, first evacuating the matter. Also in House- maid’s Knee (inflammation of the bursa mu- cosa of the patella). In all cases of abscess, however, the coating produced by nitrate of silver is likely to be injurious, by impeding the progress of the pus towards the surface, and causing it to burrow in search of a distant outlet. The propriety of its application to chancres is disputed by some practitioners, although strongly insisted upon by others. (See Syphi- lis.) Dr. Fricke, of Hamburg, is an advo- cate for its employment in the form of an ointment, which is left in contact with the sore for two or three days. His formula is as follows:—Argent. Nitr. Cryst. pulv. 9ss. Ung. Zinci 3ij. Bals, Peruv. 3ss. rq, diligen- ter. In croup, and especially in chronic inflamma- tion of the mucous membranes of the fauces, pha- rynx, and nasal fossae accompanied by adherent sloughs or false membranes, its use is attended with very beneficial results ; the adventitious surface becomes dry, separates, and leaves the membrane beneath healthy. Of its successful application, with similar views, in thickening of the membrane lining the meatus auditorius externus, Mr. Earle has reported instances in the Medico-Chirurg. Trans, vol. x. Aphthous ulcerations of the mouth, also, heal readily under its influence. In the treatment of stricture of the urethra, the success obtained by Hunter, Home, and Whately, in this country, and by Ducamp, Lallemand, and others, on the Continent, have established its claim to merits of a high order. (See Stricture.) M. Desportes has been led by analogy to apply it to the cure of obstructions of the nasal duct. By destroying their edges, or internal lining, and surrounding their orifices with an eschar, the nitrate of silver will often bring about the contraction and cicatrization of fis- tulous openings. We may rely upon it, in the majority of cases, for suppressing pro- longed haemorrhage from leech-bites, or from the gums after extraction of teeth ; and, in solution, it is frequently efficacious in putting a stop to chronic haemorrhages. Solutions of various strength are used as injections in gonorrhoea and leucorrhcea; also, in puriform discharges from the meatus audi- torius, ascertaining first, that the membrana tympani be sound ; as an application to the excoriated nipples of nursing mothers, in which it affords immediate and permanent relief; and as collyria in superficial inflammations of the eye. (See articles on those subjects.) (Henry T. Chapman.) ARM, BEND OF. Under this title will be described the elbow-joint and all the important surrounding parts which are within the arbi- trary limits of about two inches above, and two inches below, the centre of that articu- lation. Many objections may be made to the words which head this article ; nevertheless they appear to us less objectionable than most others. In fact there is great difficulty in finding appropriate denominations for this branch of surgical science, owing partly to the want of precision in many of our English anatomical expressions. Some might pre- fer calling this portion of the upper limb “ the region of the elbow this name, however, has been very differently and very improperly used; its strict anatomical meaning is the back part of the arm-joint, formed principally by the posterior and superior extremity of the ulna. Thus William Cowper 1 speaks of 1 Myotomia Reformat!, p. 177. Loudon, 1724.