THE CYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL SURGERY. EAR, and HEARING, Diseases of the. Introduction. The eye and ear, though apparently very different, resemble each other in many re- spects, both anatomically and pathologically. As the diseases of the former are more easy of investigation, and, therefore, better known than those of the latter, the cautious use of the analogy alluded to will prove of material service in illustrating the subject of this article. It is usual in discussing the diseases of the eye, to call attention to the fact, that in it is found a miniature specimen of every tissue met with in other parts of the body, as well as tissues peculiar to itself. Into the compo- sition of the ear in like manner, there enter more or less well-marked specimens of mem- brane,—cellular, fibrous, serous, synovial, mu- cous, and tegumentary,—of cellulo-vascular expansions, of glands, of cartilage, of bone, of ligament and tendon, of muscular fibre, of the various kinds of nervous fibre, and of struc- tures sui generis. The distinguishing characteristic of certain parts of the eye is transparency, of the ear, vibratility. Both these physical properties are readily impaired or destroyed by disease—a circumstance which, coupled with the great susceptibility of the special nervous expansion peculiar to each organ to have its energies enfeebled or annihilated by various morbific influences, explains the nicety required in the diagnosis and treatment of the diseases of these organs. As there are the same structures, the same elementary forms of disease present them- selves in the eye as in other parts of the body, hence, in this organ alone, may be read VOL. II. a very good epitome of general pathology. Not only, however, is the general pathology of the ear illustrated by that of the eye, but its special pathology likewise. That part of the eye which is the seat of some of its most important diseases is the conjunctiva, a mucous membrane placed at the peripheral surface of the eye-ball. In the ear, some of the most common cases of its derangement consist, in like manner, in the morbid condition of a mu- cous membrane, that lining the cavity of the tympanum, which being situated at the peri- pheral surface of the labyrinth—the essential part of the apparatus of hearing—bears ex- actly the same anatomical relation to it as the conjunctiva does to the eyeball. Again, the nasal duct, a mucous canal, is the seat of some not unfrequent and very troublesome affec- tions of the eye—the Eustachian tube, which resembles the nasal duct in every anatomical particular, does so also in a remarkable degree in its pathological states. Obstruction of the nasal duct, however, it is to be observed, has not such an immediate effect on vision, as the corresponding state of the Eustachian tube has on hearing : a circumstance depending on the difference of conditions required for the due exercise of the functions of the two or- gans. In the labyrinth there are vascular and nervous parts and humours, in all respects comparable with those of the eye-ball; hence, diseases similar to what are met with in this were to be expected in that, though, as yet, knowledge on the subject is infinitely less perfect. The direct connexions and relations which subsist between the ear and other parts of the body are in every way analogous to those pre- sented by the eye ; nor are the sympathies of the one less marked than those of the other. B