378 FRACTURE. rather recent. The new hone, both before and behind, was abundant to the very margin of the articular cartilage, beyond which the fissure remained unalter- ed. Abduction of the leg might have diminished the ret raction of the inner condyle. In an oblique fracture of the external or internal condyle of the femur into the joint, the position of the utmost ease and quiet is desirable for some days. Subsequently the extended position is preferred, that the head of the tibia may maintain the face of the frac- tured condyle in a right line with its fellow. The limb having been previously so placed upon a pillow as to give rest; and such time having been given, that leeches and evapo- rating lotions may be applied for the removal of swelling and inflammation ; Sir A. Cooper directs that a roller be applied round the knee, and that a piece of stiff pasteboard dip- ped in warm water be applied under the knee, and confined by another roller: the paste- board is to be about sixteen inches long, and sufficiently wide to extend under the joint, and to each side of it, as far as the edges of the patella ; it thus adapts itself to the joint, and retains its form when dry, so as best to confine the bones. He says also, that splints of tin or vrood may be used on each side of the joint; but, being apt to create uneasy pressure, he does not seem to recommend them. There is not the least reason to anti- cipate ankylosis, unless inflammatory disor- ganization of the joint first occurs. The preservation of free flexion, and exten- sion of the leg, in a boy, is recorded after a compound fracture of the external condyle ; and even after a portion of it had been ex- tracted. “ My dear Sir1, Oct. 20, 1842. “ I have carefully read your paper on frac- tures of the thigh There are, how- ever, one or two points on which, venturing to differ from the generally received opinions, as adverted to in your paper, I offer for your consideration the following remarks. “ The cause of the displacement which the broken ends of a bone undergo, has usually been sought for in the muscles that act upon the upper fragment. Thus, when the tibia is broken two or three inches below its tu- bercle, and the upper portion projects or rides 1 Some apology may appear necessary for inserting the above letter, where a strict regularity of arrange- ment is confessedly a chief object of solicitude; but 1 shall hope, in this case, to stand excused. Being aware that Mr. Key had been for some time occupied in a particular manner, with certain points in the subject of fractures, I submitted to him (my former master in sur- gery), the proofs of the foregoing pages relative to frac- tures of the thigh-hone, with some hope that he would have had time, so to correct or extend them, as to make them his own, which could not but have been to the advantage of the reader. I have to regret that the proofs were returned to me with only a favourable opinion of them, and the above letter, which I could neither think of omitting nor of using as a note. Mr. Key’s reflections are, in a measure, indispensable to the full knowledge of, and ought to be made a part of, the general doctrine of fractures. over the lower, the deformity is attributed to the influence of the extensors acting through the medium of the patella ; and position, by relaxing these muscles, is held to be the best means of rectifying the crooked limb. If the thigh be fractured one-third of its length downward, and the end of the upper fragment is seen projecting either forwards or outwards, (two most common kinds of displacement) the flexors or abductors are supposed to be in fault; and the position that shall relax the psoas and iliacus, or the smaller glutaei, is regarded, cceteris paribus, as the most advan- tageous. “ The reason why so much is attributed to the muscles that act upon the upper portion of bone is, the great displacement which this sustains, in comparison with the lower; the latter appearing to undergo little or no change of position, and preserving a nearly straight line. And, as in the case of a broken thigh, the only muscles that can draw the upper part forward are those above named, the displace- ment is at once attributed to an undue action of these flexors. It is not, however, easy to understand, why muscles situated far above the fracture, and sustaining no injury, should be disposed to act upon the offensive, while those muscles that act in the opposite direc- tion, should be wholly passive on the occasion. It is still more difficult to comprehend, why the extensor quadriceps, lying upon the femur, should be disposed to such inconvenient ac- tion as that of perversely drawing the upper portion of a broken tibia forwards ; the site of the fracture having no apparent connexion with the muscles to which the displacement is attributed. If we examine this matter we shall find, that the muscles at a distance from the fracture, sustaining no irritation, take no part in the displacement; and the sole cause of the over-riding of one piece over the other, will be found in the muscles immediately ad- joining the site of fracture. “ The violence that accompanies a fracture, is usually productive of more or less effusion of blood; from laceration, either of periosteum or of the muscle attached to the bone ; and the interstitial cellular texture of the muscle be- comes still further distended by serous infil- tration, the effect of inflammation. The mus- cular fibre investing the broken ends of the bone, thus distended and swollen, can no longer be drawn into a straight line, and for a time remains shortened ; thus offering an evi- dent obstruction to the re-adjustment of the fractured bone. “ The muscle, thus shortened by mechanical distension, and irritated to contract, by the injury it has sustained, acts upon the lower portion of bone, as being the more moveable ; but the upper part of the shaft is soon forced out of a straight line, by the lower portion, obeying the contraction of the muscle; and it takes a backward or forward, an inward or outward direction, according to the line of the fracture. The upper portion, being thus dis- placed, is regarded as that on which the