BANDAGE. 459 Fig. 134. either end nearly to the middle, into three over the head with the four corners hanging down ; the front border is then furled up to the forehead, and its two corners carried back to be tied behind the occiput, while the poste- rior corners are brought forward, and tied be- neath the chin. The second (capitium trian- gulare, Lat. ; couvre-ckef en triangle, Fr.), is the cap frequently worn by French women. The handkerchief is doubled corner-wise, folded round the head by its long extremities, and tied in a bow, enclosing the corners, which fall lightly over the crown. They are merely to be considered as substitutes for the common night-cap. The six-tailed bandage for the head (finteum scissum, Lat. ; bandage de galien ou des pauvres, Fr.) Fig. 133. Fig. 133. admits of being applied with greater firmness and security than the preceding. It consists of a piece of linen, about a yard in length and half a yard in width, split longitudinally, from portions; the centre being placed upon the crown, the middle tails are brought down and tied beneath the chin, the anterior tails are carried backwards and secured by a pin at the back of the head, and those from behind drawn forward and tied or pinned over the forehead. The central portion of this bandage, perforated with holes for the eyes, nose, and mouth, as seen in M. Mayor’s handkerchief bandage for the same purpose,(Fig.l34) forms a convenient kind of mask for confining dressings to the face, the six tails meeting over the back of the head. T bandages (sec page 4C0) need scarcely be enumerated, as formerly among the con- fining bandages to the head, as their use is superseded by one or other of those already described. A double T bandage, made as follows, is sometimes serviceable for confining dressings to the nose. Upon a narrow strip of calico, one yard in length and half an inch wide, two other strips are stitched at right angles, leaving an interval of an inch between them; this interval being placed upon the upper lip, the ends of the transverse band are carried backwards and tied behind the neck, the two others are brought up on either side of the nose, crossed between the eyes, and their extremities being continued obliquely over the head, are attached behind to the transverse band. The monoculus and binoculus, two figure of 8 bandages formerly used for confining dressings to one or both eyes, may also be omitted, as their intentions are better ful- filled by a thin handkerchief passed lightly round the head. The Trunk.—Topical remedies are confined to the breast by a four-tailed bandage (funda, sive frondalis, quatuor capitum, Lat. ; fronde a quatre chefs, Fr.) made by splitting a piece of linen, half a yard broad, and long enough to encircle the body, from either end nearly to the middle, into two portions. The centre enveloping the breast,the two upper heads are carried over the opposite shoulder and tied ; the other heads are passed round the chest, and secured beneath the axilla. This bandage is also applied as a kind of sling to the chin (Fig. 149), to confine the hare-lip bandage (see uniting bandages) ; and in fracture of the lower jaw (see retentive ban- dages'). In the older writers on this branch of surgery, it will be seen applied to a multitude of uses under the name of lintium scissum or split-cloth. (See Galen, Lib. de Fasciis.) As a body bandage, the old napkin and scapulary (scapulare cum mantili) is well suited. It is simply a doubled napkin or towel passed round the trunk, the overlapping ends of which are secured by pins or tapes sewed to it; two bands stitched to the upper margin of the belt behind, are then brought over the shoulders, and pinned to the upper margin in front, to form the scapulary. Fig. 135. is