28 EAR, AND HEARING, DISEASES OF. flammation of the lining membrane of the mid- dle ear in its capacity of mucous membrane.) Two forms of this affection may be recog- nised, acute and chronic. Acute.—In severe colds in the head, the lining membrane of the Eustachian tube and cavity of the tympanum is not unfrequently involved. From the tumefaction which takes place, the Eustachian tube is closed, so that the passage of air to and from the tympanum is interrupted. There is dulness of hearing, and more or less tinnitus or buzzing in the ears, with perhaps itching in the auditory pas- sages. As the catarrh goes off, the tumefac- tion of the lining membrane of the middle ear subsides, the Eustachian tube resumes its na- tural calibre, the air thus enters and issues from the tympanic cavity as before, and the disturbance of function disappears. Some- times, however, obstruction still remains from inspissated mucus stuffing the Eustachian tube, or keeping its collapsed walls glued to- gether, or from an accumulation of mucus in the tympanic cavity. In some cases of ca- tarrh, the auditory passage is, as has been mentioned above (p. 11), the part of the ear most affected, and the result is an increased secretion of wax. In other cases, accumula- tion of wax in the auditory passage and mu- culent obstruction of the middle ear occur together. In all these cases dulness of hear- ing continues, although it is sometimes not to a very great degree, and may no longer be accompanied by tinnitus. The muculent obstruction of the middle ear is owing to an increased secretion taking place at the transition of the first into the se- cond stage of the catarrhal affection. In such a case, suppose all inflammatory action has ceased, the mucus in the tympanic cavity be- comes inspissatetj by absorption of its thinner part, and as no air can enter to fill up the void, owing to the coexisting obstruction of the Eustachian tube, the consequence is a forcing inwards of the membrana tympani by the pressure of the external air. If now by any means, such as the efforts of coughing, sneezing, or yawning, the obstruction of the Eustachian tube should give way, and the air obtain sudden entrance, redress of the mem- brana tympani takes place, a crack is heard, and hearing, which was before very much diminished, is considerably improved. Even when the inflammation has not ex- tended to the lining membrane of the tym- panic cavity, some accumulation of mucus takes place, in consequence of a free issue to what is naturally secreted being prevented by the closure of the Eustachian tube. Chronic.— Chronic blenorrhceal inflamma- tion of the lining membrane of the middle ear is usually accompanied by a similar affec- tion of the nose and throat, sometimes also of the auditory passage. This chronic inflam- mation may remain from an attack of acute catarrh, or, as is frequently the case, be the dregs of some of the exanthemata. In many such cases there is not actually any contrac- tion of the Eustachian tubes, but on account of the abundant secretion of mucus a clogged state of the passages is kept up, and the air is not freely admitted into the tympanum. The attending dnlness of hearing is usually consi- derable, but tinnitus may be absent. In persons of the flabby scrofulous consti- tution, the mucous membrane of the nose is very frequently the seat of blenorrhcea ; and in this, not only the middle ear, but the lacrymal passages, the frontal and maxillary sinuses may participate ; one or other of these parts being more particularly affected in different cases. In such persons the nose is not unfrequently rather flat and unusually broad at the root. The predisposition to catarrhal inflamma- tion and muculent obstruction of the middle ear is most strongly manifested in youth, in scrofulous constitutions, and in moist climates and situations. Many examples of accumulation of mucus found in the middle ear after death are related by authors. In the body of a man thirty-five years of age, who died of small-pox, and who many years before had become deaf after a cold, Mr. Wathen1 found both Eustachian tubes stuffed quite full of congealed mucus. All the other parts of the ears appeared in their natural state2. Diagnosis.—Muculent obstruction of the middle ear is always attended with a greater or less degree of dulness of hearing. Tinni- tus may or may not be present, but a crack- ing in the ear is frequently heard, especially during the motions of deglutition, &c. Some- times there is a sensation of stuffing, or of ful- ness and heaviness in the ear. In general, however, as Deleau and Kramer remark, the only subjective symptom of muculent obstruc- tion of the middle ear is deafness, but as this is by no means pathognomonic, and as the seat of the affection is entirely withdrawn from view, it is necessary to have recourse to the information which may be obtained by auscul- tation, in order to form a diagnosis. If while the patient expires forcibly with the nose and mouth closed, any gurgling sound in the ear be perceived on ausculta- tion, simple muculent obstruction may be in- ferred, and if any improvement in the hearing is found to have been effected, the correct- ness of the inference will be established, as well as the circumstance that the muculent accumulation is unattended by any serious complication. But as the obstruction of the middle ear may be such as not to yield to the mere effort of expiration, the only sure way of ascertaining the nature of the case is to introduce the catheter into the Eustachian tube, and during the injection of air to listen 1 Philosophical Transactions, vol. xlix. p. 215. 2 Sec further Duverriay, Traite de l’organe de l'Ouie. Paris, 1083, part iij. p. 184.—Otto, Seltene Beobachtungen zur Anatomic, Physiologie, und Pa- thologic gehorig. 4. m. Kpfrn. Heft. Breslau, 1816, p. 111.— Lincke, Das Gehororgan, &c. 8vo. Leipzig, 1837, p. 633, and others.