270 ANEURISM. FEMORAL ARTERY. Emerging from the pelvis, this vessel passes under Poupart’s ligament, and enjoys the name of femoral, until it reaches the opening through which it penetrates the adductor. Its course would be represented by a line drawn from the centre of the crural arch, and passing obliquely downwards, till it gets quite behind the femur, towards the notch that se- parates its condyles. In this course, it gives off some important branches. The artery may be tied, either above or below the middle of the thigh, or indeed at any point of its course. The aponeurosis, so frequently al- luded to, as covering the arteries in other si- tuations, here assumes the form of a sheath, which extending from Poupart’s ligament to the opening in the adductor, envelopes both the femoral artery and vein. The sartorius muscle, as it crosses the thigh obliquely from above downwards, lies at first to the outside of these vessels ; it then covers their sheath as a riband, and lastty, gets to the inside of them long before it reaches the inner border of the ham. In relation to this muscle, therefore, the great femoral vessels may be said to oc- cupy three different situations, as they are found on the inside, beneath, or on the out- side of its course. The saphena vein, which may be seen ascending on the inside of the thigh to dip into the femoral vein at its upper part, lies somewhat backwards as regards the course of the artery. Fig. 92. Fig. 92 exposes the femoral artery at two different points; the superior third, and the inferior third of the thigh. Above, the skin, cellular tissue, and superficial fascia having been divided, the sheath of the femoral vessels, in part laid open and in part still covering the ves- sels, is seen. Along the inner border of the wound, and parallel with the edge of the slcin, the saphena vein is seen ascending, throughout its entire length. On the opposite side the internal edge of the sartorius is retracted, a, the femoral artery raised on a di- rector (g g) ; b, the femoral vein ; c, the crural nerve; a satellite nerve (d) is also seen running alongside the artery ; f f the retractors ; hhh, the saphena vein. Below, the same parts are exposed; the division of the sheath of the vessels is prolonged, to shoio the pas- sage of the femoral vessels baekivards into the popli- teal space, to to, the retractors holding the aponeu- rotic insertion of the vastus intemus to the outside, and the anterior edge of the sartorius to the inside. The artery is raised on the director (n n); i, the crural nerve; o, the vein ; b, the artery ; h, the sa- phena vein. In the superior division, the femoral vessels are lodged in a triangular space, the base of which is formed above by the border of Pou- part’s ligament, its internal border by the pec- tineus and adductor longus muscles, the ex- ternal by the sartorius. In this space they are only covered by the skin, fascia lata, fat, in which the lymphatic glands lie scattered, and their own sheath, and consequently are more superficial than in any other part of their course. In this space too, the great saphena vein empties itself into the femoral vein, which lies on the internal or pubic side of the ar- tery ; the anterior crural nerve is on the op- posite side, and a little distant from it. The artery becoming deeper seated, disap- pears in the apex of the triangular space above described, beneath the sartorius muscle. In the third or lowest division, the sarto- rius lies to the inside of the artery until it passes close upon the bone, between the ad- ductors longus and magnus; and here the sheath of the vessel is exceedingly strong and fibrous. Ligature of the femoral artery in the upper third of the thigh :—As the operation is now more frequently performed on this than on any other portion of the artery, we shall de- scribe it first; and as the branches given off from the main trunk are very important, they may be briefly enumerated. Both the epi- gastric and circumflex arteries are sometimes given off from the femoral, just below Pou- part’s ligament. The profunda, a large vessel, sometimes nearly equal in size to that of the femoral itself, arises from it, at about an inch and a half or two inches below Poupart’s liga- ment, or about midway between the pubis and the level of the trochanter minor. The other branches, though unimportant as re- gards the placing of a ligature, are by no means so in respect to the supply of blood to the limb after the main trunk is tied. The femoral artery is most commonly tied at an inch or two below the profunda, as a sufficient space should be left between that vessel and the ligature to allow of a coagulum