ANGE10LEUCITIS. 283 in consequence of fluids, either produced or vitiated by inflammation, being introduced therein by absorption or imbibition, and car- ried from the periphery of the body to the centre. After establishing the etiology in accordance with this opinion, we shall examine the practical consequences to which it may lead us. I may here observe, that since the publication of my first memoir on this subject in 1836, the proofs of what I then stated have become so multiplied, that I can have no hesitation in giving the most positive charac- ter to the assertions and opinions advanced in this article. If the inflammations affecting the canali- cular portion of the lymphatic system have hitherto attracted so little attention, the rea- son is, that being, in the majority of cases, difficult to be recognized directly, they have been either mistaken for, or confounded with, the diseases of some other system—that of the veins for example. A rapid glance at their causes, mechanism, and situation will help to show the truth of this assertion in a clearer light. Etiology.—Without absolutely admitting, with Mascagni, Fohmann, Faust, and Panizza, that the lymphatic vessels alone constitute al- most the entire bulk of the cellular tissue and its components, we are compelled to acknow- ledge that these canals abound in the midst of the organic layers of the animal economy ; nor does any one now deny their faculty of ab- sorption. The inference from this simple remark is, that lymphatic vessels surround and pass through every seat of disease, and that where- ever disease exists, they may become charged with heterogeneous materials calculated to in- flame them. This notion which, d priori, is in accordance with the doctrines of anatomy and physiology, is confirmed by daily observation at the bed-side of the sick. Even in this respect the inflammation of the lymphatic vessels presents two very distinct varieties. In the one, the seat of the morbid action, or the altered fluids that give rise to it, are protected from the contact of the air; in the other, on the contrary, they are exposed to its action, either primitively or consecutively. Hence an essential difference, which it will be important not to lose sight of. When there is no wound, ulcer, incrusta- tion, or excoriation on the integuments, the altered molecules, modified by inflammation, or by any other morbid action, but rarely ac- quire properties as deleterious as those which in general characterize them, when deposited in deep wounds or solutions of continuity ; and hence the possibility of their penetrating to some extent into the veins, without excit- ing inflammation, or producing any manifest disturbance. The same thing is clearly ob- served to occur, in regard to the lymphatic vessels, which, if it were otherwise, would be affected in almost every case. It may be added that, as in the case wc are supposing, they are not contused, ulcerated, or cut, but protected, as it wrere, by the Inflammatory ac- tion that is taking place in the other tissues, these canals are but little disposed to allow the surrounding fluids to penetrate them. In opposite circumstances, the contrary ob- tains ; and to be convinced of the fact, we have only to bear in mind, how rapid and numerous are the changes which take place on the surfaces of wounds in all the products of inflammation, in all the substances either taken into or ejected from the body ; and that by reacting on each other, under the influence of the air, their elements are transformed, sometimes into new products, comparable in certain cases to real poisons. In becoming fluid, these substances are more in contact with the pores or extremities of divided ves- sels, and are thus rendered in general more acrid and penetrating. It seems but natural, therefore, that they should obtain an easier access to the torrent of the circulation, and that they should irritate the vessels more highly than in the preceding hypothesis. We may, however, imagine angeioleucitis to take place without any external breach of conti- nuity, and by a mechanism similar to that of traumatic suppuration; all I mean to state is, that under such circumstances, cceteris paribus, it is of much rarer occurrence. Angeioleucitis may be developed in three different ways: 1. By continuity of tissue, or from the external to the internal surface of the canal. In this case the lymphatic vessels that pass through inflamed organs at length become themselves inflamed at the point correspond- ing to those organs before they exhibit any trace of disease elsewhere. 2. By obstruction, or disturbance of their circulation. In this case they are so compressed in the midst of the diseased tissues, that they become in- flamed below this point, in consequence of the distension resulting from the stoppage of their circulation ; and 3. By absorption, or from within outwards. That is, when either, through their lateral pores, or their roots, they take up, in the affected parts, irritating principles in sufficient quantity to determine an inflamma- tion, in the same manner as it occurs in the veins, or when the mischief has its source in a collection seated in the integuments. In this last case, the inflammation of the lymphatics may also exist in three ways. 1. By continuity, or as it takes place in mem- branous organs ; in which case, the inflamma- tion, proceeding from the wound, attacks the lymphatic vessels, and seems to be rapidly car- ried towards their origin or termination, with- out their becoming of necessity on that ac- count previously charged with the morbilic products. 2. By internal irritation, or by in- fection : that is to say, that those of their mouths or roots, that are enveloped in the diseased locality, becoming charged w'ith hete- rogeneous molecules, are rendered incapable of bearing the contact of such substances with impunity, and become inflamed secondarily, from the internal to the external surface in one or more points of this course. This is