527 BUBO. inent of a lymphatic gland, occasioned by the mere exertion and excitement of coition. I have a patient under my care at present, who was attacked, after sexual intercourse, with a bubo in the left groin. He was going abroad at the time, and put himself under the care of a German physician. The latter assured him that the bubo was venereal, but treated it only by confinement to the couch, low diet, and antiphlogistic remedies. I saw the gentleman at the expiration of some months. A cluster of the inguinal glands was enlarged ; some were suppurating, others had suppurated, and the abscesses had either healed, or ended in sinuses ; the integument was bluish ; and the cellular membrane thick- ened. There was no trace of a venereal symptom, nor any evidence that venereal contamination had occurred. I sent the patient into the country, but he is not yet well. The glands appear to have suffered too deeply in structure, to be speedily re- stored to their natural state. Can we doubt that such a case as this (and it is not un- common) is one of inflammation in a lym- phatic gland, occurring in a habit naturally weak, or, by injudicious management, weak- ened ? Constitutional states exercise an important influence on the production and the course of bubo. There are two conditions of the sys- tem, the scrofulous and the cachectic, which are more particularly prone to it. It is in these states, and especially the former, that the inguinal glands are apt to enlarge, with- out local irritation in the course of their inferent vessels. For practical purposes it might not be amiss to look at bubo under three points of view : as it occurs in a person of a good con- stitution ; or, in one of a scrofulous habit ; or, in one of a cachectic. It may fairly be admitted that it is not always easy to distin- guish the two latter constitutional conditions, or their local effects, cachexia being little else than a low state of the bodily powers, to which the scrofulous diathesis may materially contribute. Yet, making every reasonable allowance for this, the difficulty that it gives rise to is rather critical and speculative than real, and occasions no embarrassment in actual practice. I shall, therefore, take the liberty of acting on this division, however faulty it may be, and of sketching, in as brief a manner as possible, the form that is assumed by bubo, and the course it runs, under these several circumstances. Bubo in a healthy habit.—As a consequence of any of the numerous local causes I have already alluded to, there appears a swelling in one or more of the inguinal glands. It generally begins in one, and is often confined to it ; occasionally it extends to several. The swelling feels, to the finger of the surgeon, single or multiple, as one or several glands are implicated, moveable or not, as it is above or below the fascia, is tender when pressed, and more or less painful on, or after, exercise, or even without it. The skin, at first, is not discoloured, unless an inflamed absorbent leads directly to the bubo, when the red- ness in its track may invade the integument over the bubo itself. Such a bubo may end in resolution, or in induration, or in suppuration. Under proper management, the former termination is the most common, and the latter is the least so. Sloughing of the integument, or of the gland, or of both, is a still more rare termination. Resolution. Without refining so far as to divide this into “ delitescence” and resolution, I may simply observe, that tenderness and pain subside with more or less rapidity, and the swelling gradually disappears. In most instances, however, an inguinal gland, w'hen once enlarged to any size, regains with diffi- culty its exact natural dimensions. Induration.—This is a not unfrequent oc- currence. The tenderness passes away, the swelling diminishes a little, it then becomes stationary, and so may remain for an uncer- tain period, for weeks or even for months. In the majority of instances it yields at last— perhaps to medicine, perhaps to time. But, in other cases, fresh inflammation comes upon the gland, it may be with, it may be without any obvious reason, and either resolution or suppuration ensues. This liability to fresh inflammation and to suppuration makes indur- ation of an injured gland any thing but de- sirable. Suppuration.—If the inflammation runs high, or, as is not uncommonly the case, the patient does not restrain himself in exercise or diet, the tenderness continues or augments, the swelling enlarges, partly from increase of the gland itself, principally from implication of the neighbouring cellular tissue,—a blush of red- ness appears upon the skin,—the latter be- comes adherent to the gland beneath,—slight oedema, from serous effusion in the cellular membrane, precedes “ bogginess,” from sero- purulent infiltration into it and into the gland —and fluctuation, from concentration of the fluid into one chamber, follows. In the stage of “ bogginess” it is often hard to say whether there is matter or whether there is not. A careless or an inexperienced surgeon will often hastily decide that there is, and plunge his lancet into the swelling. The sign of only a little blood and a trifling quan- tity of sero-purulent, or merely serous, fluid, surprises, perhaps mortifies him. Even when fluctuation is perceptible, it does not follow that the fluid is purulent. I have often seen it more allied to serum than to pus, and we sometimes find sero-purulent fluid in the cellular membrane and in the su- perficial part of the gland, while a little pus is formed in its interior. I mention these cir- cumstances, partly because they tend to mo- derate precipitancy, and partly because they explain many of the reputed instances of ab- sorption of buboes in a state of suppuration. In the majority of such instances, it will pro- bably appear, on a careful investigation of the