FRACTURE. 348 generally discover the presence of other avail- able signs. The acromion will be found less prominent, and there will be more vacancy in the axilla in fracture than in dislocation. In fractures, the humerus yields much more readily in the hands of the surgeon than in cases of luxation. In fractures too, the humerus is more easily extended than in dislocation. The shorten- ing and displacement which slight extension obviates in cases of fracture, returns as soon as the extension is discontinued. The deltoid is shortened, and swollen with the shortening of fracture; but the association of genuine crepitus with the above described mobility, will be deemed the most conclusive signs. The combination of luxation with fracture is not very unfrequent (See article Luxations). The position of the arm, at the moment of receiving the injury, is known to influence or even determine the kind of accident that follow's. When, therefore, the effects of dif- ferent positions, as inducing particular frac- tures or dislocations are understood, certain incidental marks, as bruises and the like, in- dicating the position the limb was caught in, (so to speak), may become subservient to dia- gnosis. During a fall, if the arm be confined to the side, whether by mechanical impediment or otherwise, the weight of the body so acting on the projection of the shoulder, may occasion fracture of the head or neck of the humerus. Marks of dirt upon the dress corresponding to the deltoid muscle, or contused marks on the skin of the shoulder, may be found in this case. If, however, the arm be extended for defence, dislocation of the humerus without fracture will probably result; and the hand will be marked by dirt, abrasions, or contu- sions. Ecchymosis is a symptom more com- mon to fracture than dislocation ; it is found on the cushion of the shoulder in the former case, but in the latter it is rather to be sought for upon the internal and fore part of the arm. (See Dupuytren, Clin. Chir. t. iii.) All the observations which do not inflict pain are to be made first, since the surgeon cannot investigate with his hands without doing some mischief. This is a caution which requires to be repeatedly dwelt upon, for many of our oldest surgeons are sad examples of violent manipulators. Comminution of the head of the humerus also, the result of severe direct blow's, or of slighter violence in aged people, should not be too severely handled, for the sake of dia- gnosis. It is an accident not easily mistaken, unless for simpler contusions ; its treatment is rather passive, by means of rest in an easy and settled posture, with the arm by the side, or rather fixed near it. It would seem, from the examination of some specimens, that in a wasted humerus, as in the femur, a partial fracture may take place, in w hich the under part of the neck gives way, and not the upper; the diagnosis and treatment, here, still more assimilate with those of contusion. Fig. 318. Fig. 318. Fracture of the neck of the humerus with partial reparation ; an isthmus of cancellated hone, near the middle of the line of fracture, would almost appear not to have been broken. The head of the bone is much deflected inwards—as it were, from a to b. The upper end of the shaft, c, is well encased in supplementary ossification, which is united to a partial new deposit on the upper part. Bichat and Delpech each relate a case of fracture of the anatomical neck of the humerus, found on dissection. Mr. Samuel Cooper also relates the case of a boy, at Bartholomew’s hospital, w'ho had been treated for a supposed fracture of the cervix scapulae, which appears to have only become evident in its nature at the time Mr. Cooper saw him ; the irregular end of the humerus then forming a remarkable projection in front of the acromion. (Diet, of Pract. Surg. p. 591.) The case previously mentioned by Bichat, happened at the age of 17; and Sir A. Cooper considers that the accident occurs chiefly at early or else at advanced periods of life. He describes it as occurring at the junction of the epiphyses in the young, and at the same part in the old, from the bone in this place being of greater softness. Ecchymosis sometimes marks the deltoid muscle when the blow has been re- ceived on this part. Collections of blood also may take place from the rupture of some of the articular vessels, and such should not generally be interfered with. Absorption is