CALCULUS. r>76 ner of lakesThis conclusion has been veri- fied to their own satisfaction, by the Messrs. Brett and Bird 2, who found pink urinary se- diments in several cases to consist of the lithates of ammonia, soda, and lime, free lithic acid, and a trace of the earthy phosphates, tinted by a peculiar colouring matter, which differed in many essential particulars from pur- puric acid, or any of the alkaline purpurates. Messrs. Vigla and Quevenne3, again found the “ rose-coloured sediment of an acid urine ” to consist almost entirely of lithic acid, with a little animal matter, probably of the nature of mucus, (the peculiar colouring matter,) some phosphate of lime, and some soda, which was undoubtedly united in the first instance with the lithic acid. Organic chemistry forms the Low-Countries of the science,—the pro- per theatre of difference and dispute. Treatment.—With regard to the treatment of those states in which the urine lets fall rose-coloured sediments, or continues of a fine pink hue without depositing, little need be said. The indications of cure are general and particular. In general, when the accom- panying symptoms are those of febrile excite- ment, our attention must be mainly directed to these. When they have the character which we observe in the lithic diathesis, our plan of treatment would be adopted in har- mony with the views exposed in the section on that subject ; the diet would be regulated, the food being made to consist of farinaceous articles, and meats of easy digestion ; and the bowels would be freely opened with a dose of calomel and rhubarb, followed up by a neutral salt in infusion of senna. An alterative dose of blue pill or Plummer’s pill might be pre- scribed at intervals, and febrile excitement allayed, and the renal secretion improved by the daily use of the neutral citrate of potash with a very minute addition of tartrate of antimony. To the saline medicine the tinc- ture of hyoscyamus is sometimes added with advantage in irritable systems; but this medi- cine is often observed to produce more dry- ness of tongue, and for its sedative effects to be followed by a higher degree of subsequent fever, than are induced in many cases even by opium. Anodynes, as a general rule, are not to be insisted on. In particular, it must be our business to discover whether any and which of the vis- cera or internal organs suffer, and also to dis- tinguish the nature of the individual affection, to which appropriate treatment should of course be directed. The glandular system especially must be narrowly looked to, and its functions where faulty set to rights, or the attempt at least made to do so. When the digestive functions are disordered, our sheet- anchor will be regulated diet, proper exercise, and country air. Violent medicine of every kind will do mischief. 1 Chiinie, par Esslinger, tom. vii. 2 bond. Med. Gaz. vol. xiv. p. COO. -1 I/Experience, No. 13. The elaboration of a peculiar pink colouring matter would not appear to be connected with a state of things necessarily formidable in itself; so that when we have secured the proper performance of the various abdominal functions, we have probably done all that is really important in the case. The formation of pink-coloured lithic deposits should, howr- ever, always be held worthy of particular attention ; we have observed at least one in- stance in which a deposit of this kind ap- peared to form the nucleus of a stone in the bladder, and there is a figure extant of ano- ther1. Every state of urine that is liable to be followed by such a disease as calculus cannot be held of too much importance. Elaboration of Urine which contains a Salt of the Oxalic acid.—Lithic acid, under the pro- longed action of nitric acid and of chlorine, is partly converted into oxalic acid ; and Liebig and Woehler found, that when lithic acid was boiled with the superoxide of lead it was re- solved into urea, alantoin, carbonic acid, and oxalic acid. Besides, it has been shown in the general remarks that immediately precede, that the proportion of carbon which exists in lithic acid, united to the proportion of oxygen which occurs in cystine, form as nearly as may be the combining quantities of the elements of oxalic acid. There would not therefore appear to be any peculiar difficulty in account- ing for the occasional existence of oxalic acid as a product of the renal secretion. It does not seem necessary to suppose that this sub- stance should be introduced among the in- gesta: its elements exist in urine, and the chemic powder of the kidney may, and un- doubtedly does, suffice at times to combine them into the compound in question. Never- theless, it remains true that certain articles of food, which are pretty generally used in some countries, contain oxalic acid ; and the expe- riments of Woehler2 have put it beyond doubt that it is one of the few acids that make their way into the torrent of the circulation, and are then eliminated both free and com- bined with a base from the system by the kid- ney. The urine contained in the bladder of a dog, killed eight hours after having had two drams of oxalic acid mixed with a quantity of meat and bread given to it, was found to de- posit a precipitate on cooling, which bore an exact resemblance to that formed by the triple phosphate. The clear urine mixed with a little of a solution of nitrate of lime gave a farther deposit, having the same external cha- racters. On examination, both of the depo- sits were found to consist of oxalate of lime. The articles of food used by man which con- tain oxalic acid in largest quantity are the sorrel, (Rumex acetosa,) so much eaten by all classes in France, and consumed to some ex- tent by the upper ranks in England as an agreeable vegetable; the tomata, (Solanuin 1 In Brugnatelli Litologia Umana, No. XXXIV'. 2 Uehcrgang von Materien in den Harn, in Zeitsch. fur Physiol. B. I, S. 139.