FISTULA, INTESTINAL. 213 by means of four sutures. There was a fecal oozing the next day, and theborrowed portion of skin mortified'. Seventh Indication. To palliate the evils of fistula when it cannot be cured.—When all curative efforts fail, or the patient is unwilling to submit to the prescribed treatment, the etforts of the surgeon may be advantageously directed towards alleviating the sufferings of the patient, and rendering him less offen- sive to himself and others. For this purpose various mechanical contrivances have been adopted. Pressure by the truss has been employed, so as to constitute, as it were, an artificial sphincter, allowing, by its occasional removal, the periodical evacuation of the bowels. When the abnormal opening is situated in the colon, where the fecal matters have acquired some degree of solidity, this mode may fre- quently be adopted with success ; but when the opening is in the small intestines, and of large size, it is difficult to prevent the escape of liquid fecal matters. Dr. Cheston’s 2 patient, in whom there was a large opening communicating with the ileum, was able to prevent all escape of feces from the wound by using a compress and bandage, for which he afterwards substituted a truss. This case was remarkable from the circumstance, that when the escape of feces from the wound was thus mechanically pre- vented, they took their natural course. Receptacles of leather, horn, or tin, with their opening applied over the fistulous aper- ture, and connected to a strap going round the body, have been sometimes employed. Juville3 delineates an apparatus, which con- sists of an ordinary inguinal truss, with an ivory pad perforated in the middle so as to fit the opening. A tube of elastic gum, furnished with a valve opening downwards, leads from this perforation to a receiver of silver, which is attached by a screw to the lower end of the tube, and lies against the inside of the thigh. The silver vessel may be unscrewed and emptied without disturbing the rest of the instrument. In a case of intestinal fistula with double prolapse, Sabatier 4 employed a truss with a pad of box-wood, so constructed as to prevent by pressure the protrusion from the lower opening, and perforated to receive the pro- lapse from the upper aperture. A silver tube continued from the aperture in the pad, con- ducted the excrement to a box of tin. IX. Intestinal Fistula established by SURGICAL OPERATION. i. Perineal artificial anus. ii. Iliac artificial anus. iii. Lumbar artificial anus. Various operations have been proposed and 1 Journal Hcbdomadaire, Juillet, 1836. 2 Cooper on Hernia. Second edition, part i. p. 53. 3 Traite des Bandages Herniaires, sect. viii. pi. 7 and 8; and Lawrence on Ruptures, p. 388. * Memoire, p. 618. practised for establishing an artificial anus for the relief of insurmountable obstruction in the lower part of the intestinal canal. The principles upon which these operations are conducted, vary considerably, according to the different localities in which they are prac- tised. It is, therefore necessary to treat of them separately, as performed in the perineal, the iliac, and the lumbar regions. i. Perineal artificial anus.—This part of the subject has already been fully considered by Mr. Malyn, in the article “ Anus,” to which the reader is referred for a detailed account of the interesting operations of M. Roux and M. Amussat. From the satisfactory perform- ance of these operations, in cases apparently most unfavourable, the hope may be indulged that numerous instances of malformation of the rectum and anus, which formerly were consi- dered irremediable except by the iliac or lum- bar operation, may now be relieved by estab- lishing an artificial opening in the natural situation of the anus. ii. Iliac artificial anus.—In the operation for establishing an artificial anus in the iliac re- gion, the incision traverses the integuments, the abdominal muscles, the peritoneum, and the upper part of the sigmoid flexure of the colon or the caecum. During its performance, the patient is laid on a bed or table, supported by assistants, the abdominal muscles being re- laxed. Crying and all violent efforts of the respiratory muscles are, as much as possible, to be avoided. The surgeon having made an incision to a convenient extent through the integuments of the iliac region, a little above and parallel to Poupart’s ligament, successively divides, to the same extent, the abdominal muscles, proceeding more cautious- ly as he approaches the peritoneum. All bleeding vessels must be immediately tied, to prevent the subsequent stages of the opera- tion being obscured. The peritoneum being exposed, and carefully perforated by slight touches of the knife held horizontally, must be divided on a grooved director to an extent corresponding with the wound in the integu- ments. Search is now made for the distended intestine, and the portion intended to be opened, being drawn by the finger through the wound, and retained in this situation by a temporary ligature passed through its coats, is to be opened so as to allow of the free eva- cuation of its contents ; after which the edges of the intestinal wound are to be attached to the integuments by four or more points of interrupted suture, and the extremities of the external wound closed by the twisted suture. The operation being completed, folds of wet linen may be applied over the lower part of the abdomen. The proposal for forming an iliac artificial anus originated with M. Littre1 in 1720. This surgeon recommended, in such cases of imperforate anus as could not be relieved by an opening in the perineum, that an incision 1 Mem. do l’Academie des Sciences, 1720.