AVULSION. 448 mentary fibres are stretched ; and, if the force be violently or suddenly prolonged, their power of cohesion is overcome, and rupture takes place. When it is applied cautiously, and increased slowly, as in reducing a disloca- tion, it may be carried to a considerable extent without laceration ; but, if the same degree of force were used suddenly, serious injury would be produced. It is, therefore, not only the amount of the traction, but the suddenness of its application, which effects the avulsion, and, in some measure, determines the point at which the rupture occurs. Thus, a limb may be caught by machinery imme- diately above the ankle or wrist, and the sepa- ration take place near the knee or elbow. It also happens, that the integuments and bone may be torn across and fractured at the exact point to which the force has been applied ; but that some of the muscles, or tendons, shall be disunited at a greater distance. We have repeatedly seen fingers, and especially the thumb, forcibly torn off, their flexor and ex- tensor muscles separating at, or close to their origin. When the accident occurs, all the parts which compose the organ or limb to which the force is applied do not give way simultaneously, or equally. This arises from the difference in their natural structure and extensibility. The skin frequently resists force which has been sufficient to tear across muscles and arteries. Flambert relates a case of dislocation of the elbow, which was reduced by seven assistants using violent extension. The muscles, and other soft parts near the elbow, were exten- sively lacerated, so as to produce a deep groove, without injury to the common integuments1. We saw, some years ago, the brachial artery, and several of the muscles of the arm, torn, in the reduction, by unwarrantable force, of a dislocation of the humerus into the axilla. The skin was uninjured, which, with the ex- ception of the bone, the limb being afterwards amputated, was the only part that had escaped. The cellular tissue, although very distensible, may be easily lacerated, so that we frequently find both its subcutaneous and intermuscular layers torn and injected with extravasated blood, whilst the other parts are unaffected. The muscles possess a high degree of contractility, and are the chief cause of resistance to the force employed, yet, having much less tenacity and force of tension than most of the other tissues, they more readily give way to sudden and violent traction. It sometimes happens, however, as has been alluded to in cases of avulsion of the fingers, that the tendons, and not the muscles, are torn. The arteries and nerves are found to bear a greater degree of extension with impunity than the muscles. The former may be drawn out until their coats have become greatly attenuated before they are lacerated ; and then, it is always observed, that the inner coat gives way first, and next, the middle one, while the external or fibro- 1 Repertoire Generate for 1827. cellular layer continues longer to resist the force employed. The fracture of the bone is generally transverse ; and if the force has been violent, it may project, more or less, beyond the soft parts; but its extremity is seldom spiculated. The most remarkable point in the history of these accidents is, the absence of haemorrhage. When an artery is lacerated, or forcibly rent asunder, little or no blood is lost. The usual process of injection and coagulation of the blood, with retraction and annular constriction of the vessel, takes place. The external clot forms rapidly, and the internal one is large and extensive ; but as some time must elapse before these can form, they may obviously assist in preventing secondary haemorrhage, but they can afford little or no obstacle to the loss of blood at the time of the accident. Nor can the retraction of the torn artery exert much influence, because this is not nearly so com- plete as when the vessel is simply cut across; on the contrary, the toughness and elasticity of the coats of the artery enable it to resist the force employed, and prevent its giving way until after it has been greatly elongated. We, therefore, observe that the torn artery does not retract itself completely, but that a portion of it, varying from half an inch to one inch and a half in length, projects beyond the surround- ing soft parts, or hangs pendulous from the face of the stump. Various explanations of this occurrence have been given. That of Beclard appears the most rational. He states that the obstruction to the egress of blood depends, in a great measure, on the lacerated inequalities of the inner coat of the artery. We have, on two occasions, been enabled to verify this opinion, by accurate examination. One of the cases was admitted into the Glasgow Royal Infirmary ; and the other occurred in private practice. In both an arm was torn off by machinery. One lived twelve, and the other thirty hours. The inequality of the inner coat of the brachial artery from lacera- tion extended up along the vessel about an inch and a half from its torn extremity. It was, in several places, partially detached from the middle coat, so as to form several small projections, which almost completely filled the calibre of the vessel, and must have afforded not a single, but a series of obstructions, to the effusion of blood. In both cases the artery projected about an inch and a quarter beyond the muscles; its extremity was ragged, and its cavity apparently obliterated, so that not a drop of blood escaped. No pulsation could be felt in the pendulous portion, but immediately above it was distinctly recognized. On divi- ding the artery close to the face of the stump, a jet of blood, corresponding to the size of the vessel, was thrown out, showing distinctly that the previous absence of haemorrhage was to be attributed to the lacerated inner coat, and annular contraction of the artery. There was no external clot present, nor was there any external pressure on the projecting, which was evidently' the obstructed, part of the artery.