351 AQUEOUS HUMOUR. A collection of pus formed at a distance from its source; an abscess by congestion. APPARATUS, appareil, Fr. The gene- ral term apparatus designates the assemblage of all those implements and objects required by the surgeon in the execution of operations, as well as in the application of bandages and dressings. Besides the instruments suited to particular operations, which are generally arranged be- forehand, and disposed in cases, very many articles, the necessity for which is common to all operations, must be prepared on the spur of the moment; and a skilful surgeon will not confine himself to what is absolutely necessary, but will endeavour to foresee every possible emergency, so as never to be at a loss cr de- layed, during the progress of an operation. We shall, therefore, in the first place, take a survey of those general preparations on which the success in some cases, and, in all, the prompt and dexterous performance of surgical I operations so much depend. Although such matters are generally left to the assistants, the operator must not neglect to satisfy himself that warm and cold water, sponges, and towels, are in readiness ; that bandages, compresses, adhesive plaster, lint, and other dressings, are previously pre- pared and arranged; that tourniquets, scalpels of various forms and sizes, tenacula, and the usual contents of the pocket-case are at hand ; and, finally, a small tea-pot, containing wine or other restoratives, should never be for- gotten. The apparatus furnished by the surgical | instrument-maker, is arranged in sets ac- cording to the particular operation ; thus we have cases of instruments expressly for trepanation, amputation, lithotomy, hernia, paracentesis, cataract, &c., the contents of which will be specified in the articles on those subjects. The pocket-case for general pur- poses ought to be provided with instruments for the most common and simple operations, i as wrell as those necessary for conducting dressings; these consist of a double-edged scalpel, straight and curved bistouris, (those made to close with a clasp are the most con- venient) scissors, a spatula, dressing and liga- ture forceps, tenacula, directors, probes, a caustic case, needles and ligature-silk; a fe- male catheter, convertible into one suited to the male urethra, by screwing to its open ex- tremity a straight canula adapted to the pur- pose, is a frequent and useful addition. It is the duty, further, of the surgeon to ascertain that each instrument is in its proper condition, and, when disposed in the order required by the stages of the operation, to take care that a cloth be thrown over the whole, to conceal them from the eyes of the patient, a precaution which, notwithstanding the reproach of our continental brethren, is not always sufficiently attended to. {Henry T. Chapman.) APPARATUS, MINOR, MAJOR, and ALTUS, are names bestowed upon three modes of operating for the removal of stone in the bladder. (See Lithotomy.) AQUEOUS HUMOUR. The aqueous humour is the small quantity of clear tran- sparent fluid situated within the chambers of the eye1. It is secreted by a delicate mem- brane which lines the cornea,—is thence re- flected upon the corneal and neural surfaces of the iris, and finally passes over, and is most intimately associated with the anterior cap- sule of the lens. This beautifully delicate membrane is divided by anatomists into three portions, named from the parts upon which they pass,—corneal, iridal, and capsular. The aqueous humour is somewhat turbid, and of a reddish colour for about a month after birth, in consequence of the rupture of the pupillary membrane, which very gene- rally takes place when extra-uterine exist- ence commences2. In a healthy state of the eye, the clearness and transparency of the aqueous fluid continue until a very advanced age, when it has usually a cloudy, whitish ap- pearance. When the aqueous fluid is dis- charged, it is very rapidly regenerated. It possesses powerfully solvent properties, so that when minute fragments of metal and other hard substances are forced into the an- terior chamber, they are gradually dissolved by it ; not, however, always ; for on several occasions I have observed that such substances have acquired a delicate cyst, and have re- mained for years without exciting much irri- tation. There are forms of disease in which the aqueous fluid is much increased (Conical Cornea, Hydrophthalmia), and there are also morbid conditions, in which it is gene- rally found to be diminished (Atrophia Bulbi, Synechia Anterior). 1 The variations in the quantity, colour, &c. of the aqueous humour, at different periods of life, are mi- nutely explained by Burrhy (De Artificio Oculorum Ilumores restituendi. 1669). Fabricius ab Aquapen- dente (Operaomnia Anatomica et Physiologica. 1687). Nnck (Tractatus de Ductibus Oculorum Aquosis. 1695). Hovius (Tractatus de Circulari Motuin Oculis. 1716). Petit (Memoires de l’Academie Royale des Sciences de Paris. 1728). Zinn (Descriptio Ana- tomica Oculi Humani Iconibus lllustrata. 1755). Haller(Elementa Physiologia; Humani Corporis. 1763). Porterfield (A Treatise on the Eye, the Manner and Phenomena of Vision. 1769). Waldrop (The Morbid Anatomy of the Human Eye. 1808). Clemens (Dis- sertatio sistens Tunica: Corneae et Humoris Aquei Monographiam Physiologico - pathologicam. 18l6). Dalrymple (The Anatomy of the Human Eye. 1834). 2 1 am not aware that this has been previously men- tioned as the cause of the red appearance the aqueous fluid assumes at the period of, and for a short time after, birth ; but I have not ventured the opinion with- out adopting every means which occurred to me of as- certaining its accuracy. I am not now referring to that mere reddish appearance of the pupil, observed for several weeks after birth, and which is occasioned by the light brown colour of the choroid pigment, but to an actual redness of the aqueous fluid itself, which, however, is not noticed in those cases in which the pupillary membrane disappears by the cessation of its circulation, and the absorption of its wasted texture and vessels.