703 CASTRATION. Bandage, Fig. 149, where the name applies to a bandage for fracture of the lower jaw. CARBUNCLE, from carbo, a burning coal. See Anthrax. CARCINOMA. See Cancer. CARIES. See Osteitis. CARTILAGE. See Chondritis. CASTRATION, Verschneidung, Ger. In surgical language this term is applied to the ablation of one or both testicles by a surgical operation. It is now never resorted to, ex- cept in cases where the alteration or disorgani- zation of the seminal gland is considered to be incurable, and the general health of the patient cannot be preserved by other means ; and in this class may be ranged its tuberculous and cancerous affections. In the latter, however, it may be inadmissible, as when, for instance, the disease of the testicle has reached it by ex- tension, from parts deeply seated, and out of reach. Indeed, however boldly the extirpa- tion may be conducted, in the case of fungoid disease of this organ extending along the cord,—and some surgeons, like Ledran, have carried it up the spermatic cord as far as the iliac fossa,—candour obliges me to say, that I have never seen it successful in arresting the ulterior progress of this intractable disease. The operation, however, may be undertaken, provided the cord and the inguinal glands be still free from any trace of the affection. Where the degenerescence has not proceeded beyond the schirrous state, even though the hardness should extend to the cord, the gland and thickened cord may be removed. I have also known castration to be performed for chronic suppuration with numerous sinuses through the scrotum, and even for the disease known as irritable testis. Although several methods have been pro- posed by surgeons, and some variety may doubtless be necessary in its performance, de- pending on the nature of the case for which it is employed, still a general description, em- bracing the important points of the operation, will suffice for the guidance of the surgeon. The pubes being clearly shaved, for if the hair be left on either side, it will be productive of inconvenience, either at the time of the opera- tion, or subsequently, when the adhesive straps are applied in dressing ; a table of convenient height is prepared by covering it with two blan- kets and a sheet, and a T bandage is fastened round the patient’s loins. A straight and con- vex-edged bistoury, scissors, forceps, and te- naculum, with ligatures, sponges, and warm water being at hand, the operation, which con- sists of three steps, namely, the division of the integument, the section of the cord, and the dissection of the tumour, may be proceeded with. The patient being placed on his back, the surgeon makes an incision down the front of the tumour, from the abdominal ring to the lowest part of the scrotum. A double advan- tage is thus attained, as the diseased gland is much more easily removed, and when suppu- ration has set in, the matter does not stagnate ir. the scrotum. If the tumour be large, or the skin diseased, it will be best in either case to remove a portion of the skin with the tumour. This is done by forming the incision with two branches, including an ellipsis of such dimensions as will remove the whole of the diseased integument; in this manner the necessity of having recourse to a tedious and painful dissection, when the skin is adherent to the tumor, is avoided, and the formation of a large bag, even of sound skin, which would otherwise remain after the excision of a very large tumour is prevented. Sometimes a small exploratory incision is made into the tunica vaginalis on the fore- part of the testis, with a view to satisfy the surgeon’s mind that the disease is neither a hydrocele nor a hsematocele, and I approve of the practice when there is a doubt on this point. Pott mentions his being once so de- ceived by appearances, that he removed a testis which was all but healthy, and which, had he resorted to a preliminary incision, he would have preserved; simple hydrocele, where the tension is great, and there is neither transparency nor fluctuation, may be, and has been, mistaken for indolent scirrhus. The liability to this error will be still greater when the tunica vaginalis presents a degree of hardness equal to that of cartilage ; and this change in its structure, in connexion with hydrocele, is not unfrequent. In making this exploration, the bistoury is the proper instru- ment ; a trocar should not be employed, as it might not answer the end in view, and the testicle would be unnecessarily exposed to injury. If the external pudic artery, or any of its branches, should furnish blood in a stream, they should be secured. The remaining en- velopes of the gland and cord are then to be carefully divided, beginning above near the abdominal ring, where the cord is still con- cealed by a prolongation of the fascia trans- versalis and the cremaster muscle, and to which they form as it were a sheath. The best way to do this is to raise these tissues layer by layer, and divide them on a canula or director, until the cord is laid bare. The neglect of this precaution by practitioners who cut the spermatic cord before they have freed it of its muscular envelope is the chief, if not the sole cause of the retraction by which they may be subsequently embarrassed. I have seen the surgeon, in a case where the divided cord had retracted within the abdomi- nal ring, obliged to cut the external oblique, in order to get at the bleeding vessels. In another case which came under my observa- tion, the bleeding from the vessels of the re- tracted cord was so profuse, that the operator was convinced he had wounded the iliac artery, and unfortunately proceeded to place a liga- ture on that vessel. The patient died the day