.iEGYLOPS. those of the present day ; they called the union by adhesive bands, the dry suture, that by stitches, the bloody suture. (See Suture.) They also made use of a mode of bringing the lips of a wound together which may be regarded as uniting the principles of both ; it was effected in the following manner :— two indented slips of adhesive plaster were pasted over the brinks of the wound, of a width sufficient to insure iirm agglutination ; the indented edges, corresponding with those of the wound, had threads sewed to them at short intervals ; the edges being brought into contact, the threads were tied across the wound. They were also in the habit of fe- nestrating their emplastic applications, a prac- tice which is still continued for light dress- ings over suppurating wounds, at the Hotel Dieu. The parts over which the diachylon adhe- sive straps are to be placed should be shaved previously; if this precaution be neglected very annoying pain is felt, and sometimes separation of the agglutinated parts is pro- duced, when it becomes necessary to renew or remove the slips ; they should also be washed, and sponged quite dry, before the bands are applied ; the latter precaution is unnecessary when the court plaster, or the gum ammoniac plaster, is employed. The removal of the straps requires great gentleness ; the surgeon should begin by de- taching one end, until he has freed it, to within an inch or so of the edge of the solu- tion of continuity ; he then detaches the op- posite end of the same slip, till he has ap- proached the wound in the same manner, then, taking both ends together, he gently draws them off the face of the wound in a direction perpendicular to it. If it be com- pletely cicatrized, the straps are all succes- sively removed in this manner; but if the object be simply to remove them, in order to apply others, instead of those that have be- come soiled, or that have fallen out of their proper bearing, they should be removed and replaced one by one. The length of time they may be allowed to remain varies accord- ing to the firmness with which they adhere, the extent and condition of the wound, the lightness with which they lie, their inoffensive- ness to the parts, &c. ; they may remain on, in general, from one to eight days. If the bands are placed unevenly, or in such a manner as to make folds of the skin, they may give rise to great pain, inflamma- tion, suppuration, and even to the formation of a slough ; it is not uncommon in delicate persons of fine skin, and in children, for the pressure of the adhesive straps to produce an eruption of small, painful, pustules ; and when erysipelas prevails in hospitals, it often seizes on solutions of continuity, that are too tightly dressed. In the latter case, the straps should be slackened ; and, in the former, cold lotions, light dressing. &c., will quickly dissipate the irritation. When their tightness gives rise to extensive inflammation, it may become necessary not only to relax them, but to re- G1 move them altogether, and apply a large emollient poultice. The diachylon adhesive plaster is often observed to turn black in the part that covers the wound, which, in its turn, is blackened by it ; this arises from the oxide of lead, one of the ingredients, combining with the sulphu- retted hydrogen from the wound, and forming a black sulphuret of lead. (See Ulcers, Compression.) (Win. B. Costello.) ADUSTION, adustio, Lat. ; adustion, Fr.; the action of fire on the living tissues ; syno- nymous with actual cautery. (See Cauteri- zation.) .dEDCEATOMY, cedceatomia, Lat. ; (from aiSoia, ‘ the pudendum,’ and Ttjxvto, ‘ I cut,’ Gr.) the excision of the labia pudendi, and of the clitoris, when hypertrophied. A2GYLOPS, or ANCHYLOPS, aiyiX^, Gr. (from ai?, aiydg, a goat, and wi(, the eye.) An ulcer in the internal angle of the eye, so named from its giving to the human eye some resemblance to that of a goat; this ulcer re- sults from the bursting, externally, of a small abscess situated over the lachrymal sac. In some of the old writers it is described as the fistula lachrymalis, of which they regard it as the first stage or degree. But the segylops may exist while the apparatus for the excre- tion of the tears still continues in a state of perfect integrity ; it is not converted into the fistula lachrymalis until, by the progress of the ulceration, a communication is established through the posterior wall of the abscess with the lachrymal sac. The lachrymal sac is pro- tected from the extension of the inflammation; and the simple aegylops is easily cured, by such treatment as will be proper to relieve the con- gested cellular tissue. But no time should be lost, as the bulk of the tumour, by arresting the flow of the tears through the proper chan- nels, and producing epiphora, adds greatly to the irritation in which the affection originated. The surgeon should be careful not to confound aegylops with fistula lachrymalis, the treatment of the two affections being very different. In the first stage of the tumour, recourse must be had to local depletion, by leeches, the ap- plication of emollients, and the antiphlogistic regimen. Should the abscess form, it should be opened as soon as the smallest point of fluctuation can be discovered ; should the sur- geon not be consulted till the ulcer is esta- blished, he should ascertain that the lachrymal sac is still entire. When the case is so, the’ probe does not enter the sac; injections through the lachrymal puncta will not pass through the aegylops ; besides the history of the case, the condition of the pus, &c., will help him in forming his diagnostic ; the ulcer should then be dressed with dry lint, and gen- tle pressure should be made on the thin and detached edges; these, as well as the fungat- ing granulations of its surface, should be touched with caustic, great care being taken 12