185 FISTULA. just above is dilated and attenuated, and ulti- mately ulcerates, allowing the fluids to find a new outlet in the manner above described.— (See Stricture of the Urethra.) By the inducement of the same phenomena, the same result takes place, when a canal becomes dis- placed and strangulated, as in the case of an incarcerated intestine. It has also been known to occur in cases where a natural duct has be- come so obstructed with one or more foreign bodies, as to impede wholly or partially its functions. The progress of the formation of a rupture of a natural sac or duct, and its subsequent conversion into a fistula, varies considerably. Sometimes the sac, in consequence of partial obstruction in the duct, dilates very gradually, the cellular tissue surrounding it becomes en- gorged, and the tumour thus formed remains, often for a long time, in an indolent state ; and is known, according to its situation and contents, as a lachrymal, urinary, salivary, or biliary tumour or dilatation. The tumour is circumscribed, and situated in the line or track of some duct or reservoir, the skin covering it is unchanged in colour or tem- perature, and its contents may be often re- turned into the natural reservoir, or voided, by making pressure upon it. A perforation at length takes place, and the contents of the sac becoming effused into the cellular tissue, the inflammation assumes an active character, the pus and other fluids are discharged through an ulcerated opening in the skin, and the fistula is at once established. The lining membrane of the fistulous track, acquires by time, and the prolongation of the irritation, a firmness and solidity of organiza- tion which it is far from possessing at first ; and this is a fact of considerable importance in regard to treatment. The more recent the formation of a fistulous track, the greater will be the facility of curing it ; when they have been established for one or more years, their organization is so nearly analogous to that of natural mucous membrane, that they become as it were excretory canals, and as such their obliteration is a matter of the utmost diffi- culty. From the foregoing observations, it follows that fistulae may be ranged into two general classes : 1. Fistulous tracks or sinuses involving the skin and cellular tissue only, or cellulo-cuta- neous, and which are produced or kept up by abscesses, diseased bone, cartilage, or liga- ment, by the presence of foreign bodies intro- duced from without, or generated within the body. 2. Fistulas produced by wounds, diminution, obliteration, ulceration, or perforation of the excretory ducts, reservoirs, or secreting canals of the body. The diagnosis in most cases of fistula is easily determined, no matter from what cause or lesion it may have aiisen. A small aper- ture furnishing a disproportionately large quantity of pus is presumptive evidence of the existence of a fistula; and the proof is de- cisive, if the purulent matter, taken in con- nexion with the situation from which it flows, should be found mixed with the natural secre- tions or gaseous fluids, such as the tears, saliva, respired air, milk, bile, faeces, urine, &c. When the track of an abscess is kept fistulous from its serving as an issue for the pus furnished by a diseased bone or cartilage, the peculiar fetid odour of the pus will help also to esta- blish the diagnosis. The prognosis of particular fistulae, and the pathological alterations by which they are distinguished, will be best considered under their respective heads. Those which charac- terize the fistulous tracks of purulent collec- tions will be found described under the head of Abscess. In regard to the situation of fistulae, and the nature of the excretions poured out from the reservoirs and excretory ducts involved in them, they have been classed into lachrymal, salivary, aerial, mammary, biliary, stercoral or intestinal, serous, and urinary. ANAL FISTULA. Under this term is comprehended every kind of fistulous track situated near or around the extremity of the rectum, whether it com- municates with the cavity of the gut or not. Occupying the cellular tissue of this neigh- bourhood, the aperture may be formed in the skin, or on the mucous surface of the intestine alone ; or both these surfaces may be per- forated, so that pus and gaseous or stercora- ceous matter issue from the external opening. Hence they are classed under two denomina- tions, the complete and incomplete fistula ; the latter presenting two varieties, namely, the internal incomplete, or blind fistula, when the abscess external to the rectum communicates only with its cavity, and the external incom- plete, when the pus is voided from a suppu- rating cavity which as yet has no communica- tion with the rectum. Both kinds, however, tend to become complete ; the rectal abscess progressing towards the skin, and the anal burrowing towards the sides of the rectum. Other varieties of this affection are also occa- sionally observed, as in the case where there are several external openings, or where the local disease is complicated with an affection of other organs, or where, depending on some remote source of suppuration, the matter has to pass from a distance before it reaches the opening by which it escapes either into the rectum or externally. The abscesses pro- perly so called that form in the neighbour- hood of the anus have been treated of else- where. (See Anus.) The most common causes of fistula in the anus, are injuries produced by the pressure of foreign bodies passing with the faeces upon the mucous membrane of the end of the rectum, the rupture, inflammation, and ulcei a- tion of the small valve-like lacunae of this membrane, and the suppuration of ha-mor-