CANCER, TREATMENT OF. 652 Cancerous disease of the skin may be dis- tinguished from analogous affections, before and after ulceration, by the following circum- stances, as pointed out by M. Rayer. 1. The tubercles of lupus, of Greek elephantiasis, and of certain forms of syphilis, are almost always indolent; those of cancer, sooner or later be- come the seat of lancinating pain. Lupus exedens scarcely ever appears in persons past the prime of life ; this is, on the contrary, pre- cisely the period at which cutaneous cancer commonly originates. Phagedenic cancer com- mences by a single excrescence, in lupus exe- dens there are usually several ;—in lupus non- exedens there are almost invariably a con- siderable number. Cancerous ulceration is often attended with considerable swelling of the soft parts, and the neighbouring vessels are dilated and varicose ; these sores are be- sides made worse by the application of escha- rotics. When the nose is the part affected, the bones also suffer, and exhibit alterations characteristic of cancer ; cancerous sores dis- charge plentifully, instead of being covered with thick dry scabs like those of lupus. The ulcers of lupus, of Greek elephantiasis, and of syphilis, do not occasion pain like those of cancer. (See Lupus.) But, as has been re- marked by numerous observers, ulcers are oc- casionally met with which present many of the characteristics of cancerous sores, and are perhaps only distinguishable, clinically speak- ing, from these by the rapid recovery which sometimes follows the removal of a hitherto undiscovered cause of irritation. Common warts are characterized by the thickening of the cuticle which is almost always present, and by the cleft appearance of their surface ; they never ulcerate spontaneously. Mollusciform cancer cannot well be distinguished from mol- luscum, unless when symptoms or other altera- tions of unequivocally cancerous character co- exist. An interesting example of the diffi- culty which may arise in the diagnosis, has been published by Dr. A. T. Thompson’. The attempt to discuss cancerous excres- cences is utterly vain. As a late testimony to the correctness of this statement, we may cite the fact, that M. Rayer applied forty leeches round one small and recent cutaneous tubercle, without producing the smallest effect on it: the patient dying, the growth was found to contain encephaloid matter. The true remedy is ablation, and the earlier it is performed the better. After the occur- rence of ulceration, so long as the sore and its scirrhous basis remain superficial, excision may be practised, and is decidedly preferable to cauterization. When the disease has destroyed the tissues widely and deeply, extirpation with the knife is impossible ; and all attempts to remove it with escharotics have no other effect than to add new virulence to the pro- cess of destruction. Under these circumstances we are reduced to palliative treatment2. ' Lancet, Oct.‘27, 1838, j>. 177. 2 Rayer, Diseases of the Skin, translated bv Willis Loud. 1835. II. Subcutaneous Cellular Tissue. The subcutaneous cellular tissue of the trunk and extremities is one of the most com- mon seats of encephaloid ; but is rarely, if ever, observed to give primary origin to scir- rhus. What has been said respecting the mode of growth, symptoms, termination, and treatment of encephaloid tumours generally is perfectly applicable to the disease in this situ- ation. It will therefore be only necessary here briefly to recapitulate their characters. For practical purposes it may be well to consider the progress of the diseased forma- tion as divisible into three stages, which cor- respond with physiological changes in its sub- stance. 1. The tumour varies in size when first detected by the patient, sometimes not exceeding, at this period, that of a pea1 or of a marble ; in other instances it attains much greater bulk before it excites attention. At this stage, though firm, it possesses a certain share of elasticity ; it is moveable, rather dis- tinctly circumscribed, smooth and even on its surface, and of equal firmness in every part of its extent; the investing skin presents its natural thickness, suppleness, and elasticity ; little, if any, pain is complained of; the patient is sometimes even unconscious of the exist- ence of the foreign growth, which may also be handled firmly without exciting uneasiness. 2. After a variable time the tumour begins to increase in size in a marked manner and some- times with extraordinary rapidity ; it loses its smooth and even surface, becomes irregularly lobulated, exhibiting in some parts consider- able projection almost amounting to pointing, accompanied with a softness which conveys a sensation resembling that of fluctuation ; while in other parts this is much less marked, and elsewhere the original firmness of the growth is still preserved. The skin, still moveable on the surface of the tumour (which itself grows immoveable from spreading among the muscles and subjacent parts), becomes evidently at- tenuated, in some cases to such a degree as to resemble mere cuticle, while it assumes a livid or yellowish red colour, especially at the most prominent parts ; the superficial veins enlarge. Severe pain, frequently of the lan- cinating kind, is commonly felt at this period, and the part is often exceedingly tender to the touch. Sometimes increase of tempera- ture is observed on the surface, but this is to be taken as evidence probably of a sub-inflam- matory state of the integuments. 3. The skin at length gives way at one or more prominent points, a thin serous fluid with more or less blood exudes from the openings, and fungous masses spring from these within a brief period —it may be a few hours—after perforation ; the destruction of the skin advances, and the phenomena which have led to the invention of the term fungus haematodes proceed in the manner already described. It is important to remember that pain may ' Waldrop, Travers, ice.