CAUSTICS. 746 portant. If I might venture to add one more recommendation, I should advise those who have still the resources of the dissecting-room, and who are desirous of excelling in this im- portant part of a surgeon’s duty, to make fre- quent trials on dead subjects of different ages. An excellent method for this purpose is prac- ticed in the amphitheatres on the continent, which consists in removing the thigh of the left side and laying the urethra bare. He will then see clearly the nature of the ob- stacles that he has to encounter at the bulb, the isthmus, and the prostate, and speedily learn to overcome them. The catheter above described has been made for several years back by those excellent makers, Philp and Whicker (Savignys). Some surgeons have had the head of this catheter adapted to the ordinary one ; an arrangement which adapts it to the pocket-case, in the same manner as different shapes of curves are screwed to the common shaft. Fig. 170. Fig. 170 represents the curved portion only of the self- guiding Catheter. Bibliography.—Hunter. Treatise on the Venereal Disease; Lond. 1700. AfcSiceeny, Obs. on the Ca- theter; Edin. Med. and Surg. Journ., No. 50. De- sault, CEuvres Chir. t. iii. Ware, On the Catheter; Lond. 1792. John Bell, Principles of Surgery, v. ii. 1792. Charles Bell, 1001. Lunyenhcck, Ueb. d. Ca- theterismus, in dessen Bibl. B. 1. 1007. Hey, Prac- tical Observations on Surgery, ed. 3d, Lond. 1014. Crosse, Sketches of the Med. Schools of Palis. Amus- sat. Archives Clen. dc Med. t. iv. Berton, Op. cit. May, 1026. Heine, Ein verbessertcr Catheter, in ltuss. Mag. b. 24. Velpeau, Nouv. Elcin. de Med. Opel. t. iii. Paris, 1032. Sir B. Brodie, On Dis. of the Urinary Organs; Lond. 1035. ( Win. B. Costello.') CATLING, or Catline, a long, narrow, sharp-pointed, two-edged knife, employed in forming the flaps in amputations, and in di- viding the soft parts between bones, as in the fore-arm and leg. CAT’S-EYE. See Amaukosis. In addi- tion to what is said on this subject, in the ar- ticle referred to, it may here be mentioned that this term designates an appearance merely, and that by no means characteristic of any one disease of the eye. Beer ’, who describes cat’s-eye as the type of his second class of forms of amaurosis, viz. that charac- terized not only by subjective but also by ob- jective symptoms, mentions having met with it most frequently in old persons inclined to marasmus, but sometimes in young persons, especially cachectic adults and atrophic chil- dren : he had also seen it after injuries of the eye. The appearance of cat’s-eye occurring after injuries is owing to a non-inalignant de- position or tumour at the bottom of the eye2, which is quite different from the condition, whatever this may be, which gives rise to the appearance in old persons3. “ I have,” says Dr. Mackenzie (Treatise, 3rd ed, p. 777), speaking of the affection in old people, “ seen tliis sort of cat’s-eye both in eyes which re- tained vision and in amaurotic eyes.” CAUSTICS, KavoriKog, from Kalin, I burn ; Actzendcsmittel, Ger. By caustic is meant a substance which has the quality of combining with the principles of organized matter, de- stroying or modifying its texture, and deter- mining effects not unlike those produced by fire. This property belongs to concentrated mineral acids, pure alkalis, or their hydrates and certain metallic salts. As remedial agents, these were first introduced into practice about the middle of the fourteenth century. Caustics, according to their degree of energy, have been divided into catheretics and eseharotics ; the former derived from KaOaipho, detraho, denoting a mild application, while the latter from laxdga, crusta e.v adtts- tione vulneri adhccrens, are capable of a very violent action. This division has been justly impugned because the same caustic, according to its degree of concentration, the length of time it is applied, and individual peculiarities, may be made to exercise either a cathcretic or an escharotic action. Thus, for instance, the hydrate of potash slightly passed along the skin will remove nothing more than the cuticle, while its abiding contact will corrode, penetrate, and dissolve the subjacent soft parts to a considerable depth. Caustics arc used in surgery to arrest hae- morrhage, to form an issue, to open an abscess, to erode the surface of a sore, and to destroy morbid growths. Hydrate of Potash, or Caustic Potash, as it is commonly called, is a powerful eschar- otic, whence its old name of causlicum com- mune acerrimum. While it penetrates deeply it occasions little local excitation, but tends to produce in enfeebled parts contiguous to the resulting eschar, a remarkable tendency to what is termed purulent softening and decomposi- 1 Lchrc von den Augcnkrankhcitcn, vol. ii. p. 495, Wien, 1817. 2 This variety is that which serves as the type of cat’s-cyc among the wax preparations of diseased eyes in the Museum of the Ophthalmic Clinik at Vienna. 3 This variety of eat’s-cyc is represented by Ammon in his Kliuisclie Darslellungen der Krankhcitcn des incnachlichcn Augcs, vol. i. pi. 15. fig. 10, 11.