EMPHYSEMA. 83 accurate numerical result, it may be well not to attach too much faith to its accuracy. It will be perceived, that in all the cases described, two important changes in the con- dition of the thoracic organs precede the for- mation of subcutaneous emphysema; these are collapse of the lung and pneumothorax. The effect of traumatic injuries of the chest in producing these two phenomena will be modified, however, when the lung is affected with vesicular emphysema, solidified from tubercular or other morbid deposition, or con- fined to the walls of the chest by pleuritic adhesion. If it so happen that the injury establishing a communication between the pulmonary vesicles and the cellular membrane is effected at a point, where both laminae of the pleura are intimately adherent, the air will pass di- rectly from the former into the latter, with- out being effused into the cavity of the pleura, and no collapse of the lung take place. And if the site of the wound be surrounded with loose adhesions, it is reasonable to suppose that only circumscribed pneumothorax will supervene ; of this latter condition, however, we are not aware that any examples have actually been observed, as attendants upon chest-wounds *. 1 Mr. Porter considers the notion, that pneumo- thorax commonly precedes the development of em- physema, incorrect for the following reasons. 1. If it were correct, emphysema should be an almost con- stant attendant upon fracture of the ribs, because, on account of the contiguity of the parts, the probability is that in one rase out of four the lung is wounded, whereas one case of emphysema out of thirty is a fair proportion. 2. If air were really effused into the pleura its obvious tendency would be to press upon the wound made by the rib (i. e. in the costal pleura), close it up and prevent the escape of any of that effused air into tne cellular tissue. 3. The applies tion of a bandage gives relief in numerous cases : now were pneumothorax present, it must be increased, and in the same ratio the patient’s distress, by any con- trivance preventing free issue from the pleural cavity to the cellular membrane. To these arguments it may be replied : 1. It is not probable that the ratio of wounded lungs to fractured ribs is so high as 1 to 4 ; because, from the physical and physiological properties of the lungs, a protruding spicula will by no means necessarily wound the lung, tliough it would a resisting and inelastic tissue ; and because fracture of the ribs constantly occurs without marked displacement of the fragments. Besides, Mr. Porter forgets the important fact that the pulmonary tissue may be wounded, and all the ordinary effects of such wound follow (bloody expectoration, pneumonia, &c.) without the pulmonary pleura having given way. This has been proved by Larrey in respect of certain stats with comparatively blunt instruments; and there is certainly no reason that the same peculiarity should not arise in some instances of fracture of the ribs. The pleura, no doubt, owes this curious power of resistance to the fibrous lamina seated (as has been demonstrated by Dr. Stokes) under the proper serous tissue. 2. a. We have shown that pressure cannot occur ab initio in the cavity of the pleura, but when this does exist, as already explained, its natural effect must be to facilitate the egress of air through the chink in the costal pleura, in as much as the distension of the side will tend to draw asunder the borders of the opening, b. As Mr. Porter himself admits, pneumo- thorax has actually been proved, by the results of paracentesis and otherwise, to exist in some cases of Profusion of the lung has in very rare instances been observed to follow perforation of the thorax, and been adduced by some physiologists as a fact demonstrating the pos- session, on the part of the lung, of an active power of expansion. The causes of this ex- ceptional phenomenon will be examined in the article Long, Proothesis of. C. Non-penetrating wounds of the chest are, according to some writers, occasionally followed by emphysema, and this too promptly to allowr ot the gas being considered a result of the decomposition of fluids contained in the wound. It is presumed that the motions of elevation and depression of the chest exercise a sort of suction on the surrounding air, whereby it is drawn into the wound, and that the constant motion of the parts, especially in their subjects, promotes its subsequent dif- fusion. In a similar manner one species of physometra, or gaseous accumulation in the interior of the uterus, is explained by suppos- ing air to be draw'll up into the vagina by the motions of the adjacent parts. The explana- tion is ingenious, but we are not acquainted with any cases incontestably proving the pos- sibility of the fact itself. The evidence in support of the wound not having opened into the pleura is in the few cases on record very imperfect: J. L. Petit and M. Meniere urge in favour of non-penetration of the chest in two cases of emphysema observed by them, that careful probing failed to discover any communication with the interior of the chest, that their patients did not suffer from intense dyspnoea and that they recovered rapidly from their injuries. These particulars, how- empliysema from wound of the lung : how then can he possibly affirm that such pneumothorax is in any instance preventive of emphysema? 3. a. Mr. Porter forgets that if the chest-bandage prevents the escape of air from the pleura into the cellular membrane, it must similarly impede that of air from the lung into that cavity, b. It is only when applied early, and when, therefore, it is reasonable to suppose it may, by keeping the lung comparatively quiet, materially moderate the escape of air from the vesicles, that bandaging is really serviceable. Mr. Porter’s own theory is as follows : The lung does not collapse in ordinary cases ; emphysema occurs only in instances where the wounds in the costal and pulmonary pleurae exactly correspond, the air passing directly from the lung into the extra-thoracic cellular membrane. To this notion it may be objected : 1. As the lungs are always in contact with the costal pleurae, the two wounds must always correspond when an instrument or the point of a rib passes through Doth at the same moment; so that emphysema ought to be a constant attendant on wounds of the pleura;, while Mr. Porter attempts to prove it a very rare one. It is true that no two given points of the apposed pleura; continue to correspond precisely during inspiration, expiration, and the dividing pauses, but the correspondence is of suf- ficiently long continuance for the purpose, and, at all events,’if its short duration be urged as a ground for the non-occurrence of emphysema, why should this ever arise? 2. The chest-bandage, which Mr. Porter lauds as a preventive of infiltration of air into the cellular "tissue, would, according to his theory, be the most effective agent in its production, because it keeps the lungs in a* state of quietude, and consequently the pleural wounds in apposition.