490 BLOOD-LETTING. large quantities of blood persons will some- times lose with no other sensible effect, than more or less debility *. The quantity of blood which some persons lose from haemorrhoids is also extraordinary. I have known instances of delicate females losing daily, on an average, from half a pint to a pint of blood for many months, and even years,—a quantity which, when compared with the largest quantities of blood ever removed by artificial means, appears astonishing ; and the slight disturbance of the system, which such profuse haemorrhage occasions, seems indeed unaccountable. Similar effects of the loss of large quantities of blood are exemplified in cases of varicose veins accidentally ruptured, and from which immense quantities of blood have escaped, without any perceptible injurious consequen- ces. Petit particularly mentions such cases. Haemorrhage to an enormous extent some- times happens on the field of battle, wounded soldiers being often found apparently life- less, yet they recover from their wounds with unusual rapidity, by the complete check which is thus given to consecutive inflamma- tion. In the partial separation of the placenta the loss of blood is sometimes excessive, yet wo- men often recover, without any other bad effect than temporary debility. These facts, taken collectively, prove to what an extent blood may be lost, without being followed by serious consequences. CURATIVE EFFECTS OF BLOOD-LETTING. Having endeavoured to explain most of the important circumstances connected with the subject of blood-letting, I propose to make some general observations on its curative effects, glancing over those various classes of diseases to which our attention ought to be particularly directed ip the employment of this important remedy. We shall also add some remarks on the advantages which are to be obtained by blood-letting in some diseases in wdiich it has not been usually employed. These, how- ever, I shall only notice briefly, as the general principles already pointed out render any de- tailed account of the practice in particular dis- eases unnecessary. 1 Case.—A man was admitted into the hospital of surgery with dropsy, which he expected would be relieved hv tapping. A few hours after his admis- sion, he was seized with bleeding from the nose, and although his pulse was feeble and his skin cold, having already lost not less than two quarts of blood, I bled him at the arm, and the bleeding from the nose then ceased. But the particular circumstance in this case was, that notwithstanding the great loss of blood he had sustained, his pulse on the following day became firm and wiry,and was accompanied by pain in the abdomen ; he was therefore again bled at the arm. On the second day the pulse rose, and he was bled a third time, after which lie was tapped, and got a large dose of calomel and opium. This treatment had the effect of completely mitigating his sufferings. Calomel and squills were then given, until his glims became tender. He left the hospital fourteen days after his admission completely relieved, and a few weeks after- wards I saw him in perfect health. Though it may be said that there is scarcely any disease in which bleeding has not been employed as a remedial means, yet there are several diseases, as well as several stages or periods of disease, where it has not generally been adopted, from some preconceived theory, or an incorrect knowledge of their pathology, or perhaps from the supposed absence of cer- tain states of the pulse, which had been con- sidered as the necessary indications for adopt- ing it. In Febrile Diseases.— Blood-letting must be considered a most powerful remedy, whe- ther we contemplate its effects in the treat- ment of “ fevers” properly so called, in the “ phlegmasia,” where there is an inflammation of some particular organ, or in the exanthe- matous or eruptive fevers. Much contro- versy, however, has arisen as to its propriety in the treatment of fever, chiefly from the ob- servations of different writers not having been made under the same circumstances, no class of diseases assuming a greater variety of type, not only in different countries and in different classes of the community, but even in different years and seasons in the same place and in different individuals of the same family. The fever which at one period, and in one class of persons, is mild, may, in a short time, and in some other persons, assume the greatest seve- rity ; whilst that which at another period ap- pears in a severe and inflammatory form, de- manding most energetic depletion, may, at no very distant period, commence with typhoid symptoms, and require a perfectly opposite system of treatment In the treatment of this class of diseases, therefore, all that can be done is to establish such general principles as shall be applicable to the different forms or types in which the fever may present itself. The objections to the use of blood-letting in fever were grounded on the erroneous notion that the disease had a certain course to run which could not be shortened, and hence the necessity of husbanding instead of exhausting the resources of the system. Eruptive Fevers.—It is not many years since blood-letting was first employed in the treat- ment of exanthematous diseases, from an im- pression that they also had to “ run their course,” and that the great exhaustion neces- sarily created by the disease, required all the resources and powers of the system. Nume- rous facts have proved the utter groundless- ness of such a doctrine. There is no febrile disease, even of a specific character, such as small-pox, measles, or scarlet-fever, wherein blood-letting may not be advantageously em- ployed under certain circumstances conjoined with other remedies, particularly during the early stages of these maladies : even in syphilis and gout, besides the specific inflammation which forms the essential character of the ma- lady, there are often symptoms of another kind which arise from the presence of an idiopathic or common inflammation, and which are to be sub- dued by blood-letting. This observation applies also to the phenomena of eruptive fevers.