FISTULA, VESICO-VAGINAL. 235 made in the vaginal wall ; and this, as well as the improved porte-aiguille, may lead to more numerous successes in this embarrassing point of surgery. To place before the reader some of the most practical of the modes proposed and practised, we shall take them in the order of their succession as to time. At the com- mencement of the present century, M. Lew- ziski proposed, in a case of transverse fistula, to place the sutures from within the bladder, by means of a needle fashioned like a sonde a dard, and introduced through the urethra. This instrument was subsequently improved by M. Deyber ; and its application will be readily understood by a glance at the accom- panying sketch. Fig. 270. Suture of a tranverse fistula. The sonde a dard is employed as a needle, to place successively the points of suture. In 1825, M. Lallemand, of Montpellier, in- vented an instrument whereby the lips of a transverse fistula could be brought into, and maintained in contact during the time neces- sary for their adhesion, without sutures. This instrument, which he termed, sonde-erigne, consists of a thick canula, four inches long ; a double hook, or two double opposing hooks, that can be projected from, or drawn into, the canula at. pleasure ; a circular disk at the outer end of the canula, to prevent its slipping into the bladder; and a spiral spring, by means of which the hook introduced into the posterior lip of the fistula can be brought forward. The canula is introduced through the urethra, and the hook is projected through the vesico- vaginal wall, just beyond the posterior lip of the fistula, and upon the surgeon’3 fingers. The front of the urethra is protected from any undue pressure which the disc might make on it, by means of a pledget of lint. The spiral spring then acting, brings the lips of the fistula into contact, by bringing the hook for- ward, and forcing the anterior lip backward. The degree of apposition necessary to union can be nicely regulated, by means of a parti- cular mechanism. The vagina should also be protected from the contact of the hook, by a pledget of lint. M. Lallemand states, that he has succeeded in seven cases with this appa- ratus. He does not refresh the edges of the fistula by incision ; he simply cauterizes with the nitrate of silver. Fig. 271. Dupuytren invented an instrument also, for the purpose of approxi- mating and holding the lips of the fistula in contact, which, being previously cauterized, were thus disposed to unite. This instrument was a large female ca- theter, furnished at its sides with two flaps or wings, that could be expanded or closed at pleasure by a central rod. When this sound was introduced into the bladder and the wings developed, on being drawn outwards, the posterior edge of the fistula was drawn to- wards the anterior, which was also pressed backward by means of a pledget of charpie. Lallemand's crotchet ca- Cure hy the application nula for transverse of a flap taken from fistula. The canula, a, the neighbouring integu- is introduced into the ments.—The idea of ex- “*5application against the orifice of the of Plastlc surgery to urethra. Thetwo screw- the loss of substance heads, c and d, hy being in the vesico-vaginal turned,cause the crooks, wall,was first propound- e andf to project. ed by M Job^rt> in ] 836. In effect, there is no greater difficulty in obtaining a flap from the labia, groin, or buttocks, for the purpose of closing a solution of continuity in the vagina, than there would be in detaching one From the forehead, in the operation of rhinoplasty ; and although the object of the transplantation is different, the steps of the operation itself are nearly the same. The edges of the fistulous aperture are first refreshed by incision, which M. Jobert affirms to be of easy execution, as they can be brought down by moderate well-directed traction, or by introducing the finger into the aperture. When the edges of the opening are pared, a flap of proper size and thickness (the skin alone would not suffice) is then formed, with a pedicle of sufficient substance to insure nourishment for the flap ; and it should be of