CANCER. 591 simply scirrhous, and the occult cancerous 1 ; the supervention of pain being the signal for the change of name. More modern sys- tematists, turning the word carcinoma from its true signification, distinguish it from cancer by limiting it to the painful scirrhus. Further, the extreme similarity of some characters of the morbid product, now known as encephaloid, to those of carcinoma, led to the pretty general adoption of the term soft cancer for that disease ; a new application of the word subsequently resisted by Abernethy and Mr. Wardrop on the grounds of the equally manifest differences subsisting be- tween the two formations. In 1812, how- ever, a distinguished French pathologist, Bayle, recognising more fully than his pre- decessors the fundamental similarity of soft and hard cancer, of encephaloid and scirrhus, without by any means underating the im- portance of their individual peculiarities, maintained the propriety of designating them by the same general name. Unfortunately he marred the excellence of his suggestion by including among cancerous diseases all cutaneous ulcerations of an intractable cha- racter : by thus grouping under the head cancer, affections essentially dissimilar, though agreeing in a single important particular, he contributed materially to engender the un- certainty even now prevailing in France re- garding the application of the term. To our countryman the late Dr. Young, therefore, belongs in reality the merit of having been the first to unite scirrhus ( carcinoma scirrhosum ) and encephaloid ( car- cinoma spongiosum) as species of a genus cancer or carcinoma. But his example has been very slowly followed. English writers, with the exception of Mr. Travers, more keenly perceptive of the differences than of the analogies of these products, have almost to the present day continued to define cancer as ulcerated scirrhus, and separate encephaloid completely therefrom under the title of fungus hsematodes. Nevertheless opinion had been silently undergoing a change among us ; we had been gradually learning to recognise the practical truth and importance of Dr. Young’s nosological arrangement, when Dr. Carswell deprived us of all excuse for wavering by satisfactorily proving its justness. But the researches of Laennec, Otto, Cruveilhier, and more recently of Miiller, have distinctly established the close alliance of another morbid product, originally de- scribed by the first named of these patholo- gists under the title of colloid, to scirrhus and encephaloid : to this tissue, therefore, the generic term cancer, as we shall fully show, is equally applicable. 1 he union of these morbid structures into a distinct class is not a mere nosological artifice : it is manifest that the formations, to 1 Hippocrates. which we propose to apply the generic term cancer, possess characters entitling them to be grouped together and separated from all others to which the frame is exposed. They agree anatomically, for they are all composed ot a containing and a contained part forming a combination without its counterpart in the natural structures ; they agree chemically, for they are all distinguished by the vast pre- dominance of albumen in their composition; they agree physiologically, for they all possess in themselves the power of growth and of extension by continuity of tissue, that is, of assimilating to their proper substance the most heterogeneous materials—an inherent tendency to destruction and the power of local reproduction ; they agree pathologically, for they all tend to affect simultaneously or consecutively various organs in the body, and produce that depraved state of the constitu- tion known as the cancerous cachexia. Their title to be united is quite as strong in respect of practical medicine and surgery, as in respect of scientific pathology, a consideration of the very highest importance. As respects the name to be given to the genus, cancer or carcinoma is clearly the best ; to limit these terms to one particular tissue, when others possess the very properties on account of which they were originally employed, is a palpable contradiction. Another doctrine, to which we shall refer elsewhere in the course of this article, has been advanced with regard to the degree of relationship subsisting between these ad- ventitious formations. It is contended by some authors that although each of them acquires individual peculiarities with the progress of development, still they are pri- marily not merely allied growths, but actually one and the same morbid structure. With- out inquiring, for the present, into the validity of this hypothesis, it will suffice to state here, that we shall describe them as distinct productions; and thb because all observers who have examined them in their respective stages of full development—that is, when they possess their individual qualities in the highest degree—have noticed such general differences of appearance and of pathological characters, as to warrant such separation. It would be unprofitably trying the reader’s patience to enumerate all the peculiarities, petty or important, in the opin- ions of Hodgkin, Carswell, Cruveilhier, and Miiller, leading to a difference in the classifi- cation of carcinomatous tissues adopted by each. These peculiarities will gradually ap- pear in the following pages, when they are of such importance, either practically or other- wise, as to demand attention. Without fur- ther preamble, therefore, we proceed to dis- play tabularly the method according to which, as apparently best in accordance with the present state of knowledge, it is now proposed to treat of carcinoma in general.