ARTICULATIONS. 404 stage of active inflammation ; that the fatality of amputations performed on the field of battle, even if admitted, may be readily accounted for by the extreme severity of many of the wounds, which renders the ope- ration from the first all but hopeless, and by the want of proper attention subsequently. Dr White, a naval surgeon, who practised in 1703-4, upon the coast of Portugal, writes, “ when amputations are requisite they succeed ten to one better where the operation is per- formed immediately after the misfortune, than four or five days after. This all our surgeons in the army very well know, as well as in the navy1.” “ The primary amputation,” says Dupuytren2, “ will find the patient full of re- signation, power, and courage : the secondary amputation will find him broken down, dis- couraged, exhausted, or armed with a resolu- tion which will be fatal to him.” But inde- pendently of all other reasoning, experience, our surest guide, is sufficient to decide the question. “ During the peninsular war,” says Guthrie3, “the success of amputations per- formed on the field of battle became so noto- rious, even among the soldiery, that the anx- iety expressed by them to have these opera- tions performed with as little delay as possi- ble was frequently prejudicial.” After the battle of Toulouse, forty-seven primary amputations were performed, of which thirty-eight were successful, and fifty-one secondary, of which only thirty proved fortu- nate. Of the primary amputations at the shoulder-joint performed after the battles of Vittoria, Pampeluna, and the Pyrenees, and the siege of St. Sebastian, the successful cases were as sixteen to one, while, out of nineteen secondary operations, performed in the gene- ral hospital, fifteen terminated in death. Baron Percy, after the battle of New- borough, performed ninety-two primary am- putations, of which eighty-six were unsuccess- ful4. Of sixty operated on immediately after the sea-fight of January 1, 1794, eight only died. After the battle of Aboukir, eleven soldiers were operated on immediately, all of whom recovered, and there were three conse- cutive amputations, all of which proved fatal. At the battle of Navarino, M. Del Seguore, surgeon to the Egyptian army, performed thirty-one immediate amputations, all of which were fortunate, and thirty-eight secondary, of which twenty-five were successful. After the three days of July, about a hundred ampu- tations, primary and secondary, were practised, and the results were very decidedly in favour of the immediate performance of the ope- ration 5. These facts appear to be very decisive, and it will be readily admitted that, if any, the wounds of joints imperatively require imme- 1 White, Dc Recta Sanguinis Emissione. Lon- don, 1712. 2 Leqons Orales, tom. ii. 3 Guthrie on Gunshot Wounds. r Velpeau, Medecine Operatoire. s Op. Cit. diate amputation, since the inflammation which follows them is much more formidable than that which follows the wound of any other part of a limb, and the hopes of restoration are much less. Mr. Guthrie very judiciously notices, that even in primary amputation, suf- ficient time ought to be given to allow of the recovery from the collapse which immediately succeeds the injury; and Roy, who was chief surgeon to the French army of the Rhine, in 1794, coincides in the opinion. Guthrie states, that he has seen more than one patient die upon the table when the operation suc- ceeded the first shock, almost immediately. The best time for the operation is unquestion- ably that brief period which intervenes be- tween the subsidence of the collapse, and the supervention of the first signs of inflammation. (For Bibliography, vide the article Articu- lations.) {.John Blackburn.) ARTICULATIONS, HpQpov, Gr.; arti- cu/us, arthrosis,junctura, Lat.; articulation, Fr.; Articulation, or Gelenk, Ger.; articolo, Ital. An articulation is the junction of two or more bones or parts performing the functions of bone. This is the only strict and logical definition which can be given of the term, un- less we are to exclude from among articula- tions the varieties of synarthrosis called schin- dylesis and harmonia. In a more lax sense, the word may be understood to mean the junction of bones, or parts performing the functions of bones, by the intervention of a third structure or class of structures, so dis- posed as to admit of motion. It would be remote from the object of the present article to enter into anatomical de- tails, either general or descriptive', farther than is absolutely necessary to illustrate and defend the pathological views which will be advanced. The common anatomical division of articulations, which is grounded partly on form, partly on structure, and partly on mo- bility, may therefore be passed over in silence. For the purposes of the surgeon, a more con- venient classification may be instituted on the basis of structure only. Viewed from this point, the articulations of the human frame will be found to resolve themselves into three classes. In the first class, of which the facial sutures furnish the chief example, surfaces of bone are simply adapted to each other, with- out the intervention or assistance of any other structure than the periosteal covering. In the second class, of wdiich the type is found in the junctions of the vertebral bodies, the bones entering into the articulation are united through the medium of a third structure,— sometimes cartilaginous, as in the cranial su- tures, but more commonly fibro-cartilaginous, 1 Meckel’s admirable treatise will furnish adequate information, both on general and special anatomy; or on the former subject, the reader may refer with great advantage to Dr. ’’fodd’s excellent article, “Articu- lations,” in the Cyclopaedia of Anatomy and Phy- siology.