GANGRENE, HOSPITAL. 404 from the practice of acid fumigations, &c. there can be no doubt of their efficacy in destroying the offensive smells which occur in this and in some other infectious diseases ; but their capability of destroying the infec- tious effluvia themselves, is still far from hav- ing been established upon satisfactory evi- dence. M. Delpech, however, conceives that he derived considerable advantage, in the way of preventing the spreading of hospital gangrene, from surrounding the beds of the patients seriously affected, with a permanent atmosphere of muriatic acid gas.—Pp. 32 and 118. Treatment.—With respect to the plan of treatment proper to be pursued in cases of hospital gangrene actually existing, it is obvi- ous that the diversity which subsists in the phenomena of the disease, both local and constitutional, must render necessary equal diversity in the means by which we attempt to effect its removal. If in some cases, dur- ing an epidemic prevalence of the disease, or if in the majority or whole of the cases be- longing to a particular epidemic, the affection seems in a great measure local, producing little or no constitutional derangement, or at least not till it has made considerable local progress; if, in other instances, the constitu- tional symptoms show themselves at an early period of the disease, and speedily manifest that upon them its course is principally to turn ; and if these constitutional symptoms shall, in some instances, assume a highly in- flammatory or sthenic, and in others a highly typhoid or asthenic character ; it would, in- deed, be preposterous, at the present day, to expect to find one remedy, or one plan of treatment, applicable indiscriminately in all cases, simply because these cases pass under one common nosological designation. It is only by recognising such diversities in the characters which hospital gangrene exhi- bits under different circumstances, that we can comprehend the contradictory nature of the conclusions at which practical observers have arrived as to the comparative advan- tages of constitutional and local treatment in this disease; some holding that by the timely employment of certain local remedies, the dis- ease may be put a stop to, without any consi- derable constitutional affection being allowed time for manifesting itself; and others regard- ing an amended state of constitution as an in- dispensable preliminary to any amelioration of the local phenomena. Constitutional Treatment.—The character of the general treatment must, of course, be regulated by the character of the constitu- tional symptoms. So long as hospital gan- grene was looked upon as being uniformly a disease of a strictly asthenic character, a dis- ease of pure debility, any constitutional treat- ment supposed to be applicable to it, was, of course, of a phlogistic or stimulant nature. But the light that has been thrown on the variations in respect of sthenia and asthenia, to which other diseases, as the simple or the eruptive fevers, are subject, has fortunately extended also to hospital gangrene. When, therefore, the accompanying fever is of an inflammatory character, blood-letting proportioned to the degree or violence of the inflammation, and to the age and strength of the patient, will be productive of much bene- fit, both as regards the mitigation of the con- stitutional, and the amelioration of the local phenomena. Dr. Boggie, in observing that no precise rule can be laid down regarding the quantity of blood to be taken, states, that in some severe cases he has had occasion to draw one, two, three, or even four pounds of blood before the inflammatory symptoms were subdued. Dr. Thomson, whose opinions re- specting this disease, as expressed in his Lec- tures on Inflammation, were founded on his observation of it as occasionally presenting itself in the Royal Infirmary of Edinburgh, and in other civil hospitals of these kingdoms, was disposed, at the time of their publication, to regard blood-letting as admissible in but few instances of this disease, in consequence of the fever which accompanies it being usually of the typhoid or asthenic character; and still more because in many instances, patients affected with hospital gangrene have been observed to sink rapidly after this evacua- tion had been employed. He admitted, how- ever, that in young, strong, and otherwise healthy people, who are attacked with hospi- tal gangrene, in consequence of slight hurts, and of exposure afterwards to the infection of this poison, one or two blood-lettings at first may perhaps be of service in weakening the violence of the febrile reaction. But in his Report on the wounded of Waterloo, Dr. Thomson speaks of blood-letting as having been proper and necessary in a considerable proportion of the cases of hospital gangrene which occurred at Brussels, though it was not required at Antwerp on account of the less phlogistic character which the affection there exhibited. The experience of recent times seems to have established the fact, that timely abstrac- tion of blood, even in cases which are destined in their progress to assume a considerable de- gree of typhoid character, often tends greatly to mitigate, instead of aggravating this latter state; or, to use the language of the schools, that a powerful means of preventing over- powering debility in the advanced periods of disease, is the obviating of high action at its commencement. Mr. Thomas Moffat, surgeon of the Triumph, seems to have been one of the first to point out the advantages occasionally derived from venesection, and the other parts of the anti- phlogistic treatment, in cases of hospital gan- grene. In a letter, dated 9th July, 1798, ad- dressed to Dr. Trotter, after observing, that from the appearances which the disease exhi- bited, recourse was naturally had at first to bark, wine, and opium, which in almost every instance did harm, by increasing the fever and inflammation, and in none did any good ; and