FRACTURE. 320 already described have failed. Mr. White’s method suggested itself to his mind, while considering the case of a boy of nine years of age, who had fractured the humerus six months before coming under his observation. The false joint which had formed was so loose, that the arm was not only useless, but burdensome to the patient; and Mr. White’s colleagues in the Manchester Infirmary pro- posed the amputation of the limb, as the only mode of relief of which the case ad- mitted. To this extreme measure he could not consent, arguing from the youth and soundness of constitution of the patient, that the formation of the false-joint was owing, not to any constitutional vice, but to some local cause, such as the continual movement of the fragments while the callus should have been in process of production, or the intro- duction of a portion of muscle between the fragments. He imagined, that if the fracture could be, as it were, renewed, and then ma- naged with ordinary skill and care, that there was nothing to prevent its consolidation ; and he therefore proposed the following mode of proceeding : — that a longitudinal incision should be made down to the false joint, of such a length as to admit of readily bringing the end of each fragment out at the wound, and in such a situation as to secure the large vessels and nerves of the limb from injury, and to demand the division of the least pos- sible thickness of soft parts ; that the ex- tremities of the fragments should next be successively brought out at the wound, and sawed off or otherwise removed ; and that then, the fragments being placed in apposi- tion, the case should be treated as one of or- dinary compound fracture, in which the at- tempt is made to procure the union of the wound by the first intention. This proposal was acceded to, and the operation performed, with Mr. White’s assistance, with complete success, notwithstanding the occurrence of erysipelas of the arm a fortnight after the operation. In about six weeks after the ope- ration, the callus began to form, and, from that time, the consolidation proceeded unin- terruptedly to a perfect cure, without even shortening of the arm. This operation, or some of the modifications of it, have been often performed since, by Mr. White himself and many other surgeons. The operations have often been successful. Not unfre- quently they have failed, and sometimes they have even been followed by the death of the patient. It need not be said, that, as the operation in fact produces a compound frac- ture, the injury it inflicts is always of a serious nature, to which the surgeon should not con- sent to submit the patient, without strong reason in the evils he suffers from the disease. Shortening of the limb is an almost invariable consequence of it, and when the fracture has engaged two bones, as in the fore-arm and leg, the difficulty of performing the opera- tion and its danger are materially increased. Section of ligamentous union.—M. Somme of Antwerp has practised the following ope- ration, which may also be considered as a modification of Dr. Physick’s method. In an ununited fracture of the femur, he pierced the limb, from within outwards, with a trocar, passed so as to graze the lower ex- tremity and anterior surface of the upper fragment. The trocar being withdrawn with- out its canula, through this a long silver wire was passed across the limb, and left, after the canula was taken away. Placing the trocar in the canula again, he next passed it from without inwards, opposite the upper part of the false joint, across the limb a second time, in such a manner, that, passing close along the false joint, the trocar escaped on the inside of the thigh by the same opening through which it was first introduced. The trocar being withdrawn as before, the outer end of the wire was introduced into the can- ula, and passed from without inwards through it. Having taken away the canula by draw- ing it inwards, the loop of the wire was found to embrace the false joint, and the part of the skin and flesh of the outside of the limb intervening between the openings for the first exit and for the second entrance of the trocar, M. Somme now made an incision down to the false joint through the soft parts included in the loop, on drawing which home, by pulling the extremities of the wire inwards, it was made to embrace closely the liga- mentary tissue by which the fragments were united. The incision through the outside of the limb was made to unite over the wire by the first intention ; and, by gradually tight- ening the loop on the fibrous tissue it em- braced, this was by degrees divided. The result of this operation was successful; a suffi- cient degree of consolidation having taken place in six weeks to justify the removal of the wire, before it had cut its way through the whole of the soft parts that had been included in its loop. A large quantity of callus was formed ; there was no shortening of the limb ; and three months after the ope- ration the patient was able to walk. “ Of the thirty-eight cases in the table in which resection was performed, twenty-four were cured, one amended, seven failed, and six died. Of these, “ 12 were in the femur, of which 7 were cured. 6 ... leg, ... 5 12 ... humerus, ... 6 7 ... fore-arm, ... 5 and 1 amended. 1 — jaw, ... 1 “ The longest period that the fracture had existed in these cases was five years (adult— femur). The shortest period was ten weeks (humerus, set. 50). “ The average period was thirteen months and nineteen days. “ The longest period required for the cure was thirteen months (femur, set. 26). “ The shortest period was one month (fore- arm). The average period was four months.