2G l ANEURISM. Fig. 84. Fig. 84. Mr. Kiny's plan of tying the arteria innomi- nata, or the first division of the subclavian artery between its origin and the scalenus. The muscles seen at either side of the wound, are the stemo-mastoid, stemo-hyoid, and sterno-thyroid. In the middle the trachea (c) presents itself with the inferior thyroid veins ramifying upon it; to its outside is seen the in- nominata bifurcating. The vein (b) is also seen in the inferior angle of the wound; between it and the trachea, a ligature (e) is passed round the artery (a) ; d, the retractor. But though this operation may be effected without much difficulty in the dead body, it must be very different in the living. The veins from the laborious breathing must at every expiration be swelled with a fresh wave of blood, and consequently are exposed to in- jury even from blunt instruments ; and besides the difficulties and dangers of every kind must be greatly augmented from the prox- imity of the tumour itself, and the changes which its progress must have induced in the condition and relation of all the parts in- terested in the operation. But it is unneces- sary to dwell further on its perils or difficulties, as in all probability the principle so ably de- veloped by Mr. Wardrop, and the resource he has created for such unhappy cases, will be preferred in future. If, however, any surgeon were disposed to weigh the relative value of the two methods in regard to a given case, he should bear in mind, that the tumour which appears above the sternum may be only a portion, and that perhaps the smallest, of the disease. The circulation is maintained in the parts from which the main channel is thus cut off' in a very circuitous way. The vessels of the opposite side convey the due supply by the anastomosing branches, so that the blood reaches the subclavian and carotid through the branches by which they communicated with the same vessels. The two cases in which the brachio-cephalic trunk hits been tied, prove sufficiently that these sources are equal to the supply of the parts beyond the ligature, as in neither was any symptom of gangrene observed. Dr. Mott’s patient was operated on in 1818, and was convalescent till the 2.3d day ; a small point of ulceration at the back of the vessel then gave issue to the blood for the first time, and he died exhausted from successive returns of the haemorrhage on the 26th day. M. Grade's patient lived till the 58th day, dying also from a violent hae- morrhage, which he presumed might have been in some degree attributable to his having left, for greater security, a presse-noeud in the wound. Though the brachio-cephalic trunk has been obliterated spontaneously in several in- stances, it by no means follows that the same result would be obtained by placing a ligature upon it. The spontaneous obliteration is a slow process, whereas the obliteration by ligature is the operation of a few days or weeks ; the ligature cuts through the artery, w’hile the adhesions between the sides of the vessel are still fresh and soft, and under these circumstances their solidity can scarce be relied on, in a situation where they are ex- posed to the powerful impulses of the centre of the circulation. The two instances of the failure of the operation from haemorrhage alluded to above, confirm this view of the subject. CAROTID ARTERIES. The primitive or common carotids arise on the right from the innominata, on the left from the arch of the aorta ; the latter is con- sequently longer than the former. At the lower part they lie deep, covered bv the platysma-myoides, the sterno-mastoid, hyoid, and thyroid muscles, and run upwards before the transverse processes of the cervical ver- tebrae, between the larynx and trachea, on the inside, and the internal jugular vein which lies outside, and somewhat in front. Between, and behind the vein and artery, is the pneumo- gastric nerve included in the same strong sheath with them. On the left side the artery lies also close by the oesophagus, which comes out a little on that side from behind the trachea. The course of the carotids upwards towards the angle of the lower jaw appears to be directed in a slight degree obliquely back- wards, in consequence of the projection of the os hyoides and larynx. It disengages itself from the muscles as it ascends, and becomes, in the middle of the neck, so superficial that its pulsations can be distinctly seen, being covered oidy by the skin, platysma myoides, and fascia. The omo-hyoid muscle here crosses it to reach the os hyoides, and divides the side of the neck into two triangular spaces. The artery may be tied in either of these spaces. Ligature of the Carotid Artery.—The patient is placed on his back, the chest elevated, the neck stretched, and the face turned to the op- posite side. The pulsations of the artery having been felt, an incision, three inches in length, is made along the internal border of the mastoid muscle, extending from the level of the cricoid cartilage, nearly down to the sternum. The subcutaneous cellular tissue, the platysma myoides, and the cellular tissue that connects the sterno-mastoid, hyoid, and thyroid, muscles are next divided in succes-