AVULSION. pain and annoyance. The character of the sound will also convey much information to a practised ear. A harsh sound is heard from the hard bones, a softer sound from the spongy. A comminuted fracture gives a complicated and irregular clatter. A gurgling noise at- tends when the fragments are surrounded with fluid, and in compound fracture there is a sort of blowing joined with the crepitus. In all cases the sound is loudest near the fracture, and gradually diminishes as we recede from it. The crepitation, sometimes heard without fracture, about a joint or tendon, is easily dis- i tinguished from the true crepitus, by means of the stethoscope. (3.) Luxations will often receive elucidation from the stethoscope. The sound of smooth surfaces rubbing together, or the slight crack- ling of a bone moving among torn soft parts, is very characteristic. (4.) Aneurism.—In cases of aneurism, espe- i cially those that are internal, the stethoscope may be made use of with advantage. In ge- neral a rasping, sawing, or bellows-murmur will be heard in the seat of the disease. It is true that any tumor pressing on an artery will oc- casionally give a similar sound, but the mur- mur extends farther along the vessel in the latter case than in the former. In the aneu- j rism, too, the murmur will be heard on all its J sides, even when pressed off the course of the artery, but not so in any other tumor. The sounds alluded to are not, however, always to be met with, even in aneurisms. Much will de- pend on the state of the sac, which if constantly distended by pressure of blood, or incapable of collapse by reason of its coagula, may not give out the usual bruits. In such a case the bruit will sometimes be rendered audible by taking off the hydrostatic pressure by a change of position from the erect to the horizontal'. In thoracic aneurisms the pressure of the tumor on a bronchus may cause the absence of respiratory murmur in one lung or a part of it, whilst the normal clearness on percussion remains. This symptom is of much impor- tance. (5.) Serous inflammations.—When two se- | rous surfaces in an inflamed state rub together, a creaking sound, like that of new leather, is occasionally heard. This has been noticed in the pleura, pericardium, and peritoneum. It ought to be looked for in other serous and i synovial membranes, in hernise, &c. The hand can sometimes feel this frottement, but it is rendered very audible by the stethoscope. In order to its production it appears neces- sary that a certain quantity of lymph should be ! effused on one of the surfaces. If there be no lymph it is not heard, and if there be much it disappears. Its value in diagnosis is consi- derable J. j (6). Preg7iancy.—Mediate auscultation has been much used of late by accocuheurs, in I judging of the existence aud the life of a 1 Dr. Corrigan.—Dub. Med. Jour. vol. ii. s Dr. Stokes.—Dis. of Chest. 447 foetus in utero. The placental soufllet, and the pulsations of the foetal heart, are peculiar sounds, which cannot be mistaken. (See Pregnancy.) (7) . Lithotomy.—In sounding for urinary calculi the application of the stethoscope to the pubes or sacrum, may remove the surgeon’s doubts as to the existence of stone in the blad- der. The loud clear sound of calculus, the dull sound of a fungus, and the sort of pumping noise occasioned by moving the sound about in an empty bladder, may be easily distinguished, one from the other, by mediate auscultation, though these different conditions often embarrass the surgeon who trusts to the touch alone. (8) . Tympanum and Eustachian Tube.—• Laennec says, « If we apply the stethoscope upon the mastoid process of the temporal bone, while the patient inspires forcibly with the nostril of the same side (the other being closed with the finger) we perceive a blowing sound, indicating the penetration of air into the mas- toid cells. If there is any moisture in the Eustachian tube, or tympanum, we perceive a gurgling very like that of the mucous rattle ; and if the mucus happens to obstruct the tube all sound ceases. From this and other analo- gous facts we may ascertain the patency, or obliteration, of the Eustachian tube, and may thus be enabled to determine more particularly the cases in which it is proper to attempt curing deafness by throwing injections into this, or by perforating the membrane of the tympanum.” For some further particulars on the applica- tion of the stethoscope in surgical cases, see Lisfranc’s “ Memoire sur des nouvelles Appli- cation du Stethoscope,” or Alcock’s transla- tion of it. (C. Benson.) AVULSION (avulsio, arrachement). Al- though this term is not in general use by sur- gical writers, it is here intended to designate the forcible separation from each other of parts of the body which were previously, more or less, intimately united ; the traction being carried beyond their normal extensibility, and a lacerated disunion being the result. Avulsion may be the consequence of an accident ; or, it may constitute a part, or the whole, of an important surgical operation ; under which divisions we shall arrange the few general remarks we have to make on the subject. I. Accidental Avulsion.—All parts of the body, but particularly the extremities, are prone to this injury ; and in manufacturing communities, where machinery is extensively employed, it is both frequent in its occurrence, and often dangerous, if not fatal, in its conse- quences. The force required to effect a com- plete separation, or disruption of the parts, will vary in different individuals, and in differ- ent parts of the same body. When first ap- plied, the loose folds which exist, more or less, in the soft parts are effaced; then the ele-