FISTULA, VESICO-VAGINAL. 232 should be dressed from the bottom, and at the same time a catheter should be employed to draw off the water. The same practice may be advantageously employed, for the purpose of giving a free exit to the urine and pus, even where no pouch exists. The object in view will be sometimes attained, simply by dilating the orifice of the fistula. It is not, however, uncommon to see fistulee of this kind, after re- sisting every mode of treatment, heal spon- taneously, when left to themselves. Suture is seldom employed for the purpose of effecting reunion in these cases, and is chiefly had recourse to, where a large loss of substance has been incurred. This part of the subject will be considered in another place. (See Restitution of Lost Parts.) It is sometimes, however, used where the perineal orifice is hardened and callous ; an elliptical portion of the parts, including the fistulous orifice and indurated tissues, is cut out, and the lips of the wound are then brought together on a flexible catheter, pre- viously introduced into the urethra. The catheter must remain until the union is conso- lidated, which will be about the fourth or fifth day. The suture employed is the interrupted one, and the needles should be sufficiently close to each other, to secure a perfect coap- tation of the edges of the wound, and should be supported by a full and even compress of lint. The writer of this article was successful in repairing a loss of substance in the navicular portion of the urethra, by uniting the prepuce and glans to the extent of half an inch, by means of a suture, formed with the Carlsbad pins, after an attempt w'ith the ordinary needles had failed. Bibliography—Casamajor, An Cereoli plerisque Urethrae Fistulis sectione prsestantiorcs? Paris, 1742. Nunn, De duabus prope Perinaeum Fistulis urinam purulentam excernentibus. Erford, 1769. Lalouette, Ergo Cereoli in plerisque Urinae Fistulis sectione praestant. Paris, 1771. Chopart, Traite des Mai. des Voies Urinaires. Paris, 1796. Schreger, Aunalen der Chirurg. Clinicums. Erlangen, 1817. Howship, Diss. of the Urinary Organs. London, 1823. Petit, Obs. sur une Fistule an Perinee, in Mem. del’Acad. de Chir. t. i. Charles Bell, Treatise on the Diseases of the Urethra. Lond. 1822. Chopart, Traite des Mai. des Voies Urinaires edit, par F. Pascal. Paris, 1821. Fagielski, De Fistulis Urinariis. Berol. 1822. Sabatier, Med. Operat. Paris, 1822. FISTULA, VESICO-VAGINAL <,is the name given to a solution ofcontinuity by means of which the cavities of the bladder and vagina communicate, and through which the urine flows, either continuously or interruptedly. Although this affection sometimes, though very rarely, presents itself congenitally, and may be produced by other causes, such as abs- cesses, cancerous or venereal ulceration, the 1 In a preceding part of this article, under the head- ing Fistula, Recto-vaginal, a case is quoted from the Gazette Medicate, in which the error of attributing that case to Dr. Valentine Mott, instead of Dr. Rea Barton, is repeated. Justice requires that this mistake should be at once corrected. irritation of a large calculus in the bladder or of a pessary in the vagina, the aw'kwrard or careless use of instruments, &c., it is most commonly produced by the pressure against the pubis of the head of the child in pro- tracted labour, inducing gangrene in the part of the vesico-vaginal wall pressed upon. It may also arise from laceration of the vesico- vaginal wall under the same circumstances. In some of the patients, from w hom large calculi have been removed through an incision of the bladder by the vagina, the wound has remained ununited. The solution of continuity, which results from pressure in protracted labour, varies greatly both in situation and extent. It is not formed immediately upon the termination of the labour ; but the urine continues to be voided by the urethra, until the eschar begins to be detached, when it passes, in greater or less quantity, by the vulva. The dimensions of the opening thus formed, as well as its situa- tion, are points of great importance in the state of the patient w ho has the misfortune to be thus alllicted. If the opening be small, and interest but the urethra or the neck of the bladder, the urine is retained for a consi- derable interval, and the vulva is preserved from contact with it, except at the time of the natural calls to void it, or when the bladder is distended with it. The circumstances, howr- ever, are very different when the opening is large, and occupies the lower part of the bladder. The urine is then constantly drib- bling away by the vagina, irritating the lining membrane, the vulva, the thighs, and peri- neum. No care can secure the patient’s com- fort, nor prevent the scalding or offensive urinous smell which exhales from her wherever she goes. The external parts, from being constantly bathed in urine, become inflamed and excoriated, and life is rendered utterly miserable, no less from the evils she has to endure, than from the uncertainty of success in the means that may be tried to remedy them. After a time, the chance of cure, which under any circumstances is difficult, becomes greatly diminished ; for from the long standing of the fistula, its edges, exposed to the constant contact of the urine, be- come callous, the capacity of the bladder is diminished, and the urethra itself is all but obliterated from disuse. If, together with these conditions, the opening has resulted from a loss of substance, and is situated in the bottom or has fond of the bladder, the surgeon is almost sure of being baffled in any thing he may attempt beyond the mere palliation of the case. Calculated as this disease is, in its extreme form, to inspire sympathy, and stimulate the enlightened zeal of the surgeon, it is a re- markable fact, that until the commencement of the present century, but little was attempted for its alleviation ; and however easy it might have been to establish its diagnosis, the exist- ence of such a grievous infirmity seems to have attracted but little attention. In a case