236 ANEURISM. interest and importance. A female, twenty- eight years of age, had a violent fit of cough- ing on going into bed, and soon afterwards she felt a throbbing swelling above the ster- num, which, for a few weeks, gave her a good deal of pain, and which was relieved by re- peated bleedings. Five months after the commencement of this illness there was a rounded pulsating tumour observed in the neck above the sternum, bounded laterally by the trachea and tracheal margin of the sterno- cleido-mastoideus muscle. The “ bellows sound” was heard in the supra-clavicular space, and a less distinct sound along the course of the right carotid artery. The pulse in the right wrist was very distinct. She complained also of a frequent cough and difficulty in breathing; each time the carotid was compressed the breathing became more tranquil, and when the pressure was removed the dyspnoea in- stantly returned ;—a similar experiment on the subclavian artery did not at all affect the state of her breathing. The circumstance of the circulation in the subclavian artery being already considerably obstructed, and its entire obstruction adding to the distressing symptoms—and the further circumstance, that pressure on the carotid was followed by a relief of the dyspnoea, seemed to Mr. F. clearly to indicate, that for the cure of this aneurism a preference should be given to placing the ligature on the carotid artery. This he did accordingly by tying that vessel with a single ligature. A few hours after this operation the patient’s breathing became a good deal oppressed, and she had many vio- lent fits of coughing ; but these symptoms were relieved by blood-letting and opiates : and they again several times recurred and were relieved by the same system of treat- ment. After the first eight days, a decided amendment took place in this patient’s con- dition ; the pulsation of the tumour diminished in force, its bulk was lessened, and the breath- ing was much more easy. At the expiration of a month the patient walked daily, her dif- ficulty in breathing was entirely removed, and returned only when she walked fast. The tumour still continued to pulsate, but pressure upon it did not give rise to dyspnoea or any kind of inconvenience. In this state she re- turned home, no further treatment being deemed necessary. Besides these six cases of aneurism of the innominata, which were treated by placing a ligature only on one of the branches of the diseased artery, two other cases are on record wherein a similar principle of operating was adopted. In one of these Mr. Scott placed a ligature on the right carotid artery, after which the aneurism somewhat diminished in bulk, but the tumour soon again increased, and ultimately proved fatal; however as there was no post- mortem examination, the real state of the vessels in this patient was not ascertained1. In the other case, a ligature was placed on 1 Lancet, 1834. the subclavian artery by Mr. Key, and the pa- tient expired a few hours after the operation. On reviewing the eight cases in which this operation for aneurism of the innominata has been performed, it therefore appears that in five of them a ligature was placed on the ca- rotid artery, and in the other three the sub- clavian was the vessel on which the ligature was applied. In five of the cases the operation was fol- lowed by relief of all the symptoms, and by a diminution of the bulk and consolidation of the tumour. The three other cases were unsuccessful; but this militates not against the principle of the operation itself, but the injudicious selection of the patients on whom it had been employed. In M. Laugier’s pa- tient the consecutive hemorrhage was a proof of the diseased state of the artery at the place where the ligature was applied, and the ap- pearances after death pointed out that the operation in this instance, where the aneur- ismal disease was so extensive, was by no means judicious. Neither can the unsuccess- ful result in the case operated upon by Mr. Key, where the patient died a few hours after the operation, be considered as any proof of the disadvantages of this mode of operating, but of its misapplication; and in the case which was operated upon by Mr. Scott, there is every reason to believe that the aneurism was too far advanced, and the vessels too ex- tensively diseased, to admit of any benefit from the operation. In operating for aneurisms within the chest, it is of importance to remark, that the success of the operation will not depend altogether on the satisfactory effect of the ligature, and the consolidation of the tumour. Patients with a large aneurism, or even with one of no very considerable bulk, are often destroyed from the mere pressure of the swelling on parts essential to life ; so that although the tumour be consolidated, the mere bulk of an unyielding mass may cause a multitude of dis- tressing symptoms, and even prove fatal. In operating therefore for aneurisms of the inno- minata particularly, it is essential for this as well as for other reasons, that the tumour should not have attained a very large size. It is in cases of aneurism of the arteria innominata that I consider the operation of tying one, or perhaps both, of the branches of that vessel, in an especial manner appli- cable ; and in the application of this principle the first important point of inquiry ought to be, whether blood continues to circulate through both the carotid and the subclavian arteries, or through only one of these divi- sions of the innominata. I have already stated that there were some examples of aneurism of the innominata wherein Nature had shut up the carotid, and others wherein the sub- clavian was obstructed, and thus had, in part, accomplished the consolidation of the tumour. When the aneurism has not attained so great a bulk as either to produce serious affec- tions of the head or chest, or to threaten