ARM, BEND OF. 375 M. Velpeau, on the contrary, seems to consider it more as an accidental formation ; “ over the olecranon the cellular tissue is condensed in such a manner that it often gives rise to a real bursa mucosa, of variable capacity, and contains but little fluid in its healthy state, but is easily filled upon the slightest injury1.” M. A. Berard2 3 says, he has seen this bursa contain several cavities ; from repeated dis- sections, I am induced to believe that this bursa always exists in the natural or healthy state of the limb. Beclard1, who perhaps took undue credit to himself as regards the description of the bursae mucosae, remarks that this sac is found before birth, and can easily be seen on account of a sufficient quantity of fluid which lubricates its interior.” This bursa, like that of the patella, is sometimes distended with fluid of various natures, which has been described under the name of hygroma. Some surgeons have proposed injecting this cavity with stimulating fluids, as in hydrocele : when this operation is performed, great care must be taken to avoid injecting the cellular tissue around the bursa, which would cause consi- derable inflammation. This bursa is con- stantly exposed to blows, yet it is but seldom found diseased. In fractures of the olecranon it must generally be more or less injured, on account of its being so intimately attached to that bone. The principal muscles worthy the surgeon’s attention in this posterior region are the fol- lowing :—The triceps muscle, which at its lower end is provided with a strong tendinous- like fascia, fills up the hollow surface situate between the two condyles of the humerus ; and, when the limb is extended, almost pre- vents the olecranon from projecting, owing to its thickness rising nearly to its level ; when the fore-arm is bent, it is this muscle which forms the flat surface of the elbow immediately above the olecranon. The greater part of the outside of this muscle is formed by a broad tendinous-like fascia which is very similar to that of the rectus of the thigh. This broad tendon sends off an aponeurotic fascia which inserts itself along the external and posterior edge of the ulna, covers the anconeus muscle (which parti}' arises from it), and also inserts itself into the external condyle of the hume- rus, and unites to the tendinous origins of the muscles which spring from that eminence. This fascia does not spread over the back part of the ulna, which is merely covered by its periosteum, bursa mucosa, and cellulo-fibrous tissue. The thickest part of the triceps mus- cle is found exactly in its middle, and is in- serted into the olecranon. The outer fibres of this muscle are inserted into the back and upper part of the external side of the cubitus along side of the anconeus muscle ; the ten- don of the triceps does not extend so far in- wardly as it does on the opposite side : there 1 Page 247. Loc. cit. vol. ii. 3 Diet, dc Medecinc, t. ix. p. 221. 3 Anatomic Generalc, p. 188. is generally a fleshy portion of this muscle lying close to the cubital nerve. M. Velpeau, who justly remarks that the tendon of the triceps is not inserted into the most prominent part of the olecranon, but rather towards the articulating surface of the joint, says, that this disposition favours the formation of a synovial membrane which he has sometimes discovered. I have never yet met with this occurrence. The front of this muscle, which lies immediately upon the cap- sular ligament of the elbow-joint, to which it is likewise connected by means of a number of cellular fibres, may probably draw up the ligament during its contraction. This power- ful muscle extends the fore-arm, and is like- wise a “ tensor of the aponeurosis which binds down the anconeus muscle and prevents its being seen during its contraction. The anconeus muscle which some anato- mists consider merely as a portion of the tri- ceps muscle, on account of its course, use, in- sertion, and the frequent difficulty of separa- ting the one from the other, is of a triangular shape, flat, and fills up the hollow surface on the outside of the olecranon, and the space between that process and the head of the radius. Its superior fibres arise fleshy from the upper part of the outer condyle of the hume- rus, and are generally united to the triceps muscle ; the middle and lower fibres spring by a small round and strong tendon from the lower and back part of the outer condyle of the humerus ; this tendon passes along the side of the head of the radius, and must con- tribute to prevent luxations of that bone out- wards, an accident of rare occurrence, but which has come within the vast experience of Sir A. Cooper. At the inner and back part of this region, between the tuberosity of the condyle and olecranon process, is a furrow through which the ulnar nerve passes ; the exact course of this nerve is highly important to the surgeon ; it is seen first passing along the inner side of the front of the arm, on the inside of the basilic vein, and lying upon the triceps and brachialis muscles; it finally proceeds ob- liquely towards the back surface of the inner condyle, in which is a smooth groove to re- ceive it ; some fine cellular tissue merely separates the nerve from the bone, which, on account of the smoothness of the passage re- quires no additional protection ; it is a law that no nerves possess synovial membranes, these organs being reserved for parts exposed to much displacement and pressure ; the ulnar nerve is surrounded by a small quantity of adipose substance. This nerve being near the integuments, and placed upon a bony and resisting surface, is easily compressed, which produces a sensation too well known to merit notice. Sometimes, however, this nerve is not uncovered by muscular fibres. In my recent dissections, I have twice met with a small transverse muscle, about one inch in breadth, extending from the olecranon to the tuberosity of the inner condyle ; these mus-