AXILLA. 450 aural, and uterine polypi; of enlarged tonsils, of carious, or necrosed bones, from the tarsus, metatarsus, and toes, and from the carpus, metacarpus, and fingers, and in the extirpation of tumours, and enlarged glands, both deep- seated and superficial. In some instances avulsion is employed, because it affords the speediest and most effective method of removing the disease ; and on other occasions, it is had recourse to for the purpose of avoiding the loss of blood, espe- cially in the extirpation of parts, which, from their deep position, and vascular connexions, might, under the ordinary method of excision, be followed by profuse and troublesome haemorrhage. This procedure is founded on the fact already noticed, that an entire limb may be separated by force, and no bleeding take place from the lacerated vessels. It can only be safe to adopt this in surgical operations, when the vessels connected with the part to be removed are not of large size, or when they cannot be readily secured by a ligature, as in the extirpation of tumours from the axilla, or behind and below the angle of the jaw. We arc aware that torsion has been successfully applied to large arterial trunks ; and that in the removal, by avulsion, of deep-seated tumours, we have a combination of torsion with traction ; but still we cannot assure our- selves that the force employed to tear out a diseased gland from a deep cavity, will insure the same immunity from after haemorrhage, by effectively lacerating the artery, as would be the case, were the vessel on the face of a stump, and fairly within the control of the forceps. It must be acknowledged, however, that hae- morrhage rarely happens, either as an imme- diate, or remote consequence, of the forcible extraction of deep-seated tumours, provided the torn vessels are surrounded by, and enabled deeply to bury themselves in, loose cellular texture. But it is otherwise, when the tumour is situated near a bone, and is firmly adherent to muscular or fibrous texture, no layer of cellular tissue intervening. The force required for its removal from such a situation is not only greater, but the chances of haemorrhage occurring are so increased, as to call for either the application of ligatures to the lacerated arteries, or the use of firm and steady pressure. (John MacJ'arlane.') AXILLA, the arm-pit, is a hollow situated between the upper part and inside of the arm, and the corresponding surface of the chest. Anatomists, however, no longer limit the sig- nification of the word axilla to its strict mean- ing, the depression which the skin presents when it dip3 between the great pectoral and latissimus dorsi muscles, but extend it to other important parts, which are found from the skin of the arm-pit to the lower border of the clavicle and first rib. With this extension the term axilla comprehends an important region, which is principally formed, anteriorly, by the larger and smaller pectoral muscles ; posteriorly, by the subseapular, the teres major, and a portion of the latissimus dorsi muscles ; inwardly, by the serratus magnus, intercostal muscles, and ribs ; outwardly, by the shoulder-joint, and upper part of the arm; it is of a triangular shape ; and within these boundaries lie the axillary plexus of nerves, the axillary artery and veins, with their seve- ral branches, lymphatic glands, and vessels. These organs pass through the middle of the region, and are well-protected by the muscles which surround them. In this respect we ob- serve a remarkable difference between the groin and axilla. In the former, the large vessels are situated very near the surface, un- covered by protecting muscles, and greatly exposed to injury ; and, indeed, it may be asserted, that wounds of these vessels are much more frequent than those of the upper extre- mity. In compensation, however, for this ap- parent negligence in the situation of these vital vessels, their superficial posture gives the surgeon great facility in applying remedies for the cure of their injuries ; while the labour of operating upon the axillary vessels, which, from their being so deeply imbedded, as to present much difficulty in approaching them, is often extremely embarrassing. In this article we shall not follow the ex- ample of recent writers on surgical anatomy, who describe the various operations and dis- eases incidental to this region ; subjects too important to be treated briefly. We shall, therefore, merely give a plain and practical description of the axilla. The outward con- figuration of the arm-pit is extremely variable, owing to its being changed by every displace- ment of the arm. Thus, when that limb is raised above the head perpendicularly, the hollow of the axilla almost disappears, its sur- face presenting nearly a plane ; while, on the contrary, if the elbow be brought forward towards the sternum, the arm-pit then forms a deep hollow, and allows the fingers, when pushed upwards, to feel the head of the hu- merus. The arm-pit is much deeper in the male than in the female subject; because in the former the muscles are larger, and more prominent, and there is less adipose tissue to fill it up, while in the latter the muscles are much smaller, and a greater quantity of fat occupies the space; in youth, for the same reasons, the axilla is quite shallow, when com- pared to that of the adult subject. The skin in the arm-pit of the adult is generally covered with hair, which rarely attains any length; the skin is very sensitive, and of a deeper colour than that of the surrounding parts ; it is very thin, and forms folds in certain postures of the arm ; it is likewise supplied with small glandu- lar organs, which secrete a fluid of a particular odour, and of an alkaline nature, which is sometimes very abundant, and sufficiently powerful to discolour and act upon the gar- ments with which it comes in contact. This secretion is sometimes so considerable as to present a most troublesome disease. The skin about the middle of the arm-pit is quite firmlv attached to the subjacent surface, from which