AMPUTATION. 175 behind the .section as the sound state of the soft parts would permit. The arteries are tied, and the stump dres- sed, as in the preceding case. Those who would execute properly both these amputations, especially the former, must possess exact anatomical knowledge, and that facility which is acquired by amputating fre- quently on the dead subject. Chopart’s ope- ration is much more easily performed; but the disarticulation of the metatarsals gives a more serviceable stump, and spares the tendinous attachments of several important muscles ; and this is by no means an inconsiderable compen- sation for the greater difficulty of the operation. Whenever the disarticulation of the metatarsal bones will meet the necessity of the case it should be preferred. The same observation will hold good as regards Chopart’s operation, which ought to be pre- ferred to an amputation of the leg, when the disease has spared suf- ficient soft parts to form a good covering. It is, however, perfectly true, that in both, the tendons reunite with the stump, and re-es- tablish the power of the muscles over its mo- tions. Some cases have occurred after Cho- part’s operation, in which the heel has been so much thrown back, as to render the division of the tendo Achillis indispensable. Fig. 41. Chopart's amputation; the astragalus and os calcis are seen in the wound; the flap that has been cut from the sole of the foot is hanging dozen. One or more of the tarsal bones have been extracted, and in some instances without im- pairing, to any great extent, the usefulness of the foot. The astragalus has been thus re- moved after violent luxation. But the mode of performing these operations cannot be re- duced to any fixed rules, and must be left to the judgment of the surgeon. ANKLE JOINT. Mention has been made of amputation in the ankle joint at a very remote period. It is, however, seldom practised at the present day, amputation of the leg being generally ! preferred. Some eminent surgeons have ex- pressed a regret that it should have fallen into such universal disuse. The objections 1 made to it are the extent of the joint itself, and the scantiness of covering. Both these objections are, however, susceptible of mitiga- j tion : the extent of the articular surface may ’ be diminished by removing both the malleoles j with the saw, a step which will augment pro- ! portionately the capability of the soft parts to | form a good covering for the stump. The operation might be performed by making a short flap in front, by a semicircular incision extending from one malleole to the other. As the internal malleole descends less than the outer one, the joint should be opened on that side; the astragalus being luxated, the covering flap should be carved out of the soft parts of the heel. The removal of the malleoles would allow an ample covering for the stump. Lisfranc, in his lectures, mentions a man on whom this amputation had been performed who could walk ten or twelve miles a day with great ease. F>g- 42. , , Figs. 42,43 represent the lines of incision in amputations performed by the circular, flap, and oval methods on the inferior extremity. Fig. 42, Front view: a, b, cir- cular amputation above the ankle; s, r, the same ; d, c, at the place of election; v, u, t, single flap at the place of election; y, x, amputation of the tibia in its largest portion, near tlie articulation., with disarticu- lation of the fibula; f e, circular at the knee-joint; 1, 2, and g, h, circular at the lower third and middle of the thigh ; /, m, n, double flap (Guthrie J, upper part of the thigh; i, k, circular, upper part of the thigh; o, p, r/, double flap, anterior and posterior (Guthrie, Lisfranc); 6, 7, 8, circular in- cision with double flap (Ravaton) at the uprper part of the thigh ; 3, 4, 5, single internal flap at the upper part of the thigh; 9, 10, single flap for amputation of the hip-joint; I. II. III. double-flap, internal and external (Larrcy J, for amputation of the hip joint; the little elliptical space under III. indicates the line of incision first made, to secure the femoral artery. THE LEG. In the leg there are two bones of unequal size, placed nearly in the same line; the larger, the tibia, being on the inside ; the smaller, the fibula, on the outside, and some- what backwards. Behind, the backs of both are covered with strong muscles; in front, the space between them is also filled with muscles. The inner surface of the tibia is covered only by the skin. The fibula also at its inferior part becomes subcutaneous. The