601 CANCER, ANATOMY OF. uncovered, and exhibited its characteristic alveolar and jellylike aspect. But on the confines these characters were only seen in some spots, where destruction of the investing mucous membrane had taken place : this de- struction seemed to consist in a simple wear- ing out from gradual attenuation ; there was no hardening or elevation of the borders of the small perforations thus produced, nor had they the appearance of ordinary ulcers. Sur- rounding this mass, on its cardiac border, was an elevated flabby formation, more than half an inch high, and three lines thick in some places, with the feel of a piece of lung con- densed by simple pressure. On making a section of this production, the colloid tumour and the coats of the stomach, the following were found to be their condition and mode of relation. The peritonaeum was everywhere traceable, and in some parts considerably thickened ; the muscular tunic, of a pale yel- low-green tint, varied from one-eighth to a quarter of an inch in thickness : the major part of the colloid mass lay on the gastric sur- face of the cellulo-fibrous membrane, to which it adhered closely ; in one or two points of its periphery the diseased structure pene- trated, as it were, through this membrane and the muscular coat down to the perito- naeum, along the inner surface of which it then spread for about half an inch. Where the mucous membrane existed entire over the colloid structure, it could be dissected from off the latter without injuring the cancerous cells—a fact showing that the morbid matter was here developed between the cellulo- fibrous and the mucous tunics. But the colloid alveoli also extended, gradually de- creasing in closeness and number, into the elevated production already referred to : this seemed itself to be nothing more than a hypertrophous state of a fold of the mucous coat, accompanied with flabby induration ; it had neither the structure nor the consistence of any form of indurated carcinoma, and its gastric surface was perfectly sound and appa- rently healthy. Hence it appears that the mucous membrane, previously rendered hy- pertrophous, may, as well as the cellulo- fibrous and mucous tunics, become the nidus of the diseased formation. M. Cruveilhier has made a closely similar observation, for he remarks that the fungous vegetations, ob- served in the substance, or on the confines of gastric colloid, are mucous papillae prodigiously enlarged. According to Muller the develop- ment of the gelatinous cells is coeval between the fasciculi of muscular fibres and in the mucous tunic : in the earliest stage of the disease the cells are only visible with the aid of the microscope. Little has yet been done in investigating the vascular condition of colloid. Cruveilhier says that both arteries and lymphatics in a permeable and healthy state are found be- tween the alveoli of the diseased mass ; the cells he considers formed of dilated veins. When the disease has reached its maximum development, no trace of vessels is, according to the same observer, discoverable. Muller speaks of a case in which the cells were invested with a distinct vascular membrane, but is silent respecting the character and mode of distribution of the vessels. Velpeau injected a colloid tumour of the shoulder before removal from the body, and observed vessels, “ presenting nothing remarkable,” in its septa. Andral is not aware that vascular twigs have ever been traced into the jellylike matter itself. Microscopical characters.—According to Muller, when the minute cells of colloid structure are examined under the microscope, they are observed to contain several more minute cells enclosed within them, and again these secondary cells a tertiary order of still smaller dimensions. An opaque yellow parietal nucleus is easily seen in the smaller cells ; and many of the latter also contain free nuclei in their interior, as cytoblasts ' for the development of future cells. (PI. II. Figs. 6 and 7.) The largest cells have distinctly fibrous walls, and the fibres pass from one cell to another, as is seen in PI. II. Fig. 8. MUller observed, in two instances, acicular crystals in the jelly of preparations preserved in alcohol ; and in one case caudate bodies similarly situated. In order to distinguish the encasement ( einsckachtelung J of the cells and their relation to the nuclei, it is necessary to examine the disease in the earliest stage of development. Chemical characters.—The jellylike matter of colloid retains its transparency in prepara- tions preserved in spirits of wine. Muller was unable to discover any trace of gelatine in the expressed jelly, when carefully freed from membranous tissue. A tumour, re- moved from alcohol, was boiled for eighteen hours, and at the end of that time had only yielded a very small quantity of matter, which though somewhat allied in properties to the salivary principle, was in truth sui generis, and could not be precipitated by any reagent, not even by tannin : its existence was established by evaporation of the fluid in which the mass had been boiled. When tumours, which have been long kept in spirits, are operated on, they are found free from osmazome ; this principle must be first care- fully removed, when fresh specimens are made the subject of analysis. No casein is found in the jellylike matter. Cruveilhier likewise ascertained that the contained matter yielded albumen only in the ordinary speci- mens of the disease ; but in the remarkable instance of the pultaceous variety already referred to, the contents of the cells, sub- mitted to analysis by M. Boutin-Limousineau, were ascertained to consist of casein. Colloid presents itself as a distinct solitary tumour, or in numerous small masses dissemi- nated through the substance of an organ, or the morbid matter is infiltrated in the tissues * From kvtos, a cell, and f}\aoTos, a germ.