89 EMPHYSEMA. The distinctive marks of gaseous and cede- matous tumours are obvious : the latter are doughy, inelastic, and pit on pressure ; the characters of the former are precisely the reverse. It seems impossible, unless by most extraordinary inattention, to fall into the error —which has nevertheless been committed— of mistaking the crepitation of emphysema for that of fracture. Cruveilhier 1 relates a curious case, wherein the sensation commonly experienced on feeling an emphysematous part was so perfectly simu- lated by that produced on handling an abdo- minal tumour, caused by a vast accumulation of cherry-stones above a stricture of the intes- tine, that he and other experienced observers were deceived into the belief, that the cellular tissue of the abdominal parietes was infiltrated with air. He remarks, that the crackling sound, perceived by the ear when applied to an emphysematous swelling, is a more infallible sign of the presence of air than the manual sensation, and that it may be detected some time after the latter has ceased to be per- ceptible. Prognosis.—The prognosis of emphysema is always more or less dependent on its de- gree, and on the nature of the cause producing it. Slight local emphysema, such as that re- sulting from injury of the walls of the nares, is an affection of the most trivial character; diffusion of air, when extensive, is, on the contrary, a most serious complication of chest- wounds. We learn from the history recorded by Sauvages, of a soldier whose whole body was inflated through the scrotum by some vil- lains, and who laboured, in consequence, un- der such extreme dyspnoea, as to require scari- fication for his relief, that the difficulty of breathing witnessed in cases of emphysema, following thoracic injuries, is not altogether dependent on pneumothorax. Dupuytren ob- serves, that when emphysema after fracture of the ribs is limited in extent, when a few cubic inches only of air are effused, and no evidence exists of the disorder having reached the internal organs, experience has proved that absorption of the air is easily and speedily effected. But the same great surgeon was of opinion that, when extensive, it constitutes in itself a most dangerous affection ; and farther avers, that he has known asphyxia produced solely b}' the penetration of the air into the internal organs : now such penetration is liable to occur in every case of subcutaneous emphysema, so long as the cause producing the latter continues in action. While, there- fore, we recognise the gas accumulated in the pleura as the main cause of the suffocative symptoms observed to attend injuries of the chest complicated with emphysema, the fair inference from experience is, that the exist- ence of a considerable quantity of air in the cellular membrane, unless speedily relieved, may lead to the worst consequences ; though we admit extensive emphysema has some- times disappeared spontaneously. It is mani- 1 Anatomic Pathol, liv. xxvi. festlv incorrect to argue from the inoffensive character of artificial inflation in animals, that emphysema must, when the effect of injury or disease in the human subject, be similarly un- injurious : in the former case, the quantity of air introduced is limited; in the latter, the gas may accumulate to an indefinite amount. The prognosis will be materially affected by the condition of the lung on the uninjured side, when the disorder arises from traumatic or organic lesion of the other; if the uninjured organ be crammed with tubercle, for example, it is nearly as useless as its collapsed fellow, and the probability of asphyxia occurring pro- portionally great. The danger of emphysema arises altogether from its obstructing mechanically the func- tions of respiration, circulation, and cutaneous transpiration. The very serious and even fatal character of interlobular emphysema of the lung, when suddenly and extensively developed, seems clearly proved by M. Ollivier’s case already spoken of: similar cases have been related by M. Pillore. The experiments of MM. Pied- agnel and Leroy d’Etiolles on artificial infla- tion of the lungs of animals, prepared us for such facts : Martini has enumerated forcible insufflation of those organs among the modes of perpetrating infanticide ’. Treatment.—In describing the treatment of emphysema, we shall depart from the arrangement hitherto followed ; for if the cause of the affection be most important in regulating the curative measures to be adopt- ed, its severity and extent will materially modify them. We shall first, in a few words, dispose of the treatment of the minor local emphy- semata, unattended with any symptoms of severity. These swellings, when produced by injuries about the face, such as rupture of the lachrymal ducts, fracture of the frontal sinuses, &c. are usually confined to a very limited space, and disappear spontaneously, either by absorption or insensible expulsion of the effused air. The use of cold, astringent, and resolvent lotions, or friction with cam- phorated liniment may be directed ; this pro- bably hastens the disappearance of the tumour, and the apprehensions of the patient are quieted by the consciousness of having some- thing done for his relief. The most important point to be enforced, is the necessity of abs- taining from blowing the nose, loud speak- ing, and all other causes of forcible expira- tion. If necessary, a few lancet-punctures may be made through the conjunctiva, should the air have spread into the cellular tissue beneath that membrane. 1 The practical bearing of these facts in respect of the mode of attempting the resuscitation of asphyxiated subjects by artificial respiration, is too often lost sight of. We have actually been present when a hale person was requested bv a medical practitioner, on the score of his want of muscular strength, to desist from breathing into the chest of a subject just taken from the water, in order to make way for a brawnier and more powerful operator!