186 FISTULA. rhoidal tumours. The tumour, if internal, bursts into the rectum ; and, on the other hand, if it arises from an external pile, the orifice is insufficient for the complete evacua- tion of the matter, and the sides of the cavity continue to furnish the discharge. Sometimes fistula occurs in connexion with, though not as a pathognomonic symptom of other affec- tions, as in phthisis, or disease of the liver. The formation of abscesses is favoured in an especial manner, no less by the structure of these parts, than by the nature of the functions they have to fulfil. The tissues of the region are the membranous elements of the gut itself, with its longitudinal folds and puckers continued from the external aperture of the anus upwards on its internal surface, beyond the muscular sphincter ; the trans- verse small cavities formed by productions of its mucous membranes, so exposed to irrita- tion from the lodgment of faecal matter, or foreign bodies contained therein ; a strong muscular ring or sphincter, endowed with great contractile and compressive power ; a rich lace-work of veins, whose blood, in its ascent to join the internal haemorrhoidal, is not un- frequently impeded, either by the action of the sphincter, or by the compression exerted upon them by faeces accumulated in the cavity ot the gut, and hence the frequent engorge- ment of these veins, and formation of haemor- rhoidal tumours; and in addition, a large mass of cellular and adipose tissue, which fills up the extensive cavity lying between the infe- rior perineal and pelvic fasciae and the integu- ments. When inflammation is once excited in textures of this kind, its termination in suppuration is almost sure to follow; and once established, the process of healing is too liable to be disturbed by the contractions of the sphincter, by the great facility with which these parts move and glide or separate from each other, and by the impulses which they are constantly receiving from the organs of respiration, in coughing, sneezing, &c. The effect of these unfavourable circumstances is of course much aggravated, when the cellular tissue is extensively destroyed by gangrene, as it then becomes almost impossible to main- tain guch contact between the sides of the cavity and the denuded intestine as is re- quired for their complete adhesion ; so that the degeneration of the abscess into an ex- ternal fistula, with or without communication with the rectum, is a necessary consequence. The same may be said, when the abscess, in- stead of pointing externally, bursts into the cavity of the rectum. The ordinary situation of the internal orifice in anal fistula is at the point of union between the skin and mucous membrane ; and accord- ing to M. Ribe, wdiose opinion rests on the authority of nearly one hundred cases, never more than half an inch higher up, or between the sphincter and the rim which Mr. Houston has described as a species of pylorus. The considerations, however, already stated in re- gard to the destruction of the cellular tissue 12 by phlegmon or gangrene, suffice to show that this rule is not so absolute as not to admit of exceptions. The conditions of the external and internal orifices of the fistula differ greatly. There is but little alteration in the mucous membrane surrounding the internal perforation ; nothing more perhaps than a slight depression, indi- cating a waste of the submucous cellular tissue, and in w'hich small portions of faecal matter collect before they are carried into the anormal channel. When there is but one external orifice, the track is generally direct, though sometimes flexuous ; but tlie track itself often divides into various branches com- municating with each other, or pursuing each its own course towards the skin. Under such circumstances, if they have been long esta- blished, the cellular tissue around them is con- verted into callous lines, which coming toge- ther at some point of the margin of the anus, there form a solid mass of indurated tissue. Sometimes these orifices are surrounded with a ring of granulations, which are kept in a state of constant irritation by the passage of stercoraceous moisture or farces from the in- testine. Characterized by physical symptoms so readily recognizable, such as the evacuation of pus, stercoraceous matter, and intestinal gas, the existence of anal fistula can seldom be matter of doubt to the attentive practi- tioner. There will be still less room for un- certainty, if the margin of the anus shall have undergone the pathological transformations already described. The detection of the in- ternal blind fistula is not, however, so easy. Pus may have been formed, and may continue to be evacuated from the intestine with the faeces, and that too for some time before the nature of the case is fully known. It is, how- ever, the less necessary to dwell on this cir- cumstance here, as it has been already fully treated of in another place. (See Anus.) The practitioner will not fail to institute an examination, if the patient, after complaining of a sense of fulness, pain, and throbbing, finds that he voids pus with his stools. On ex- ploring with the finger, the interior of the rectum is found to be painful, and somewhat engorged ; over the part, beneath which the matter has formed, the membrane itself is of a deeper colour; and if the abscess still contain a quantity of matter, the finger is withdrawn smeared with it. Sometimes the only indica- tion will be the pain felt when the orifice is touched. The evidence of the existence cf a fistula requires, however, to be rendered complete ; and for this purpose the surgeon makes use of a probe, by means of which he sounds, in order to determine the number, direction, depth, &c. of such orifices as present them- selves. All these circumstances are important. In regard to the direction of the track of the fistula, it is now and then of great value in determining the nature of the case. Some- times a urinary fistula takes a course back-