200 ANATOMY, MORBID. be filled with blood, or bloody serum, and constitute a hcematome. A simple serous cyst may also have its contents become bloody, and constitute another variety of has- matome. Again, the vesicles of De Graefe are sometimes greatly distended by blood and bloody fluid, and thus become instances of hcematome. Extravasations of blood may also take place in parts well supplied with that fluid, and constitute a hcematome, or bloody tumour, as it is sometimes seen in the thighs and other muscular parts. Without prolonging this article by a length- ened discussion of the subject of nomencla- ture, it may not be out of place to urge the importance of acquiring clear ideas re- specting morbid conditions as they actually present themselves, and of cultivating the art of describing them with accuracy and precision, rather than seeking to fill the me- mory with a host of technical terms which can scarcely serve any other purpose than an useless display of erudition. There are some conditions of parts devia- ting from the healthy state which require to be noticed, although they do not appear as characteristics of any of the sections into which pathological conditions have been divi- ded in the arrangement just exhibited. They have not been employed as distinctive charac- ters, because they may occur under different sections. Preternatural softening of textures.—This condition may occur under various circum- stances, and in various modes. It may hap- pen to parts undergoing progressive wasting from the removal of the dense or sblid parts, as sometimes happens to the bones of old persons, whence their fragility, as especially seen in the neck of the thigh-bone. It may also take place in conjunction with preternatural or excessive growth, the tex- tures not having as yet acquired the firmness which interstitial deposit ultimately gives to them. Thus, the brain of a child affected with hypertrophy, is apt to be soft and flabby. The bones sometimes exhibit a partial hyper- trophy, in the early stage of which they are preternaturally soft, although they may ulti- mately acquire the ordinary firmness. Most newly-formed parts possess a softness of this description. We see this in the granulations produced in the formation of a cicatrix, in the callus which unites the fractured extremities of bones, and also in the early stages of exos- tosis. The most, numerous and remarkable in- stances of softening doubtless occur amongst the phenomena dependant on inflammation. The afflux of blood and other fluids, which is one of the first effects of inflammatory irrita- tion, by increasing the proportion of fluid parts, causes a state of softness somewhat like that of newlv-formed parts ; but the tension with which these fluids are contained in the inflamed texture, not unfrequently during life, masks the softening which has been produced. The most important softening produced by inflammation is that which takes place when the process has been longer in operation; a portion of the solid material appears to be removed by interstitial absorption, whilst whatever new deposit takes place, as the pro- duct of inflammation, is a soft, if not a fluid material. It would also seem that during the existence of active inflammation, the original solid parts really have their cohesion impaired and become soft. Whether this depends on the suspension of the ordinary nutrient pro- cess, on an influence exerted upon the tex- ture by the fluids of the part in consequence of altered properties in them, or on the diminished resistance in the solids themselves, with reference to the solvent power of the fluids, must at present be a matter of pure speculation which does not affect the fact itself, which may be brought about by one or all of these causes. Illustrations of this hind of inflammatory softening may be seen in all the numerous cases in which death takes place, preceded by some acute local inflamma- tion. It may be seen in all the tissues,—not unfrequently rendering them susceptible of division without the use of a knife ; but it is most remarkable and general in the cellular membrane, not merely allowing the easy sepa- ration of part from part, but also admitting of the subdivision of parts themselves ; thus, re- cent carditis allows of the ready separation of the muscular fibres of the heart amongst them- selves. The coats of an inflamed intestine are often still more readily separated, and many feet of mucous membrane may, without resist- ance, be torn from the peritoneal and middle coats. The effect of inflammatory softening upon the arteries and capillaries of an inflamed part, constitutes a very remarkable and im- portant phenomenon. If we examine with a moderate magnifying power the small but in- jected vessels of an inflamed part, on which its preternatural redness depends, we shall often find that these minute vessels have lost their defined outline, and by giving way to distension at some particular points more than in others, occasion an irregular and spotted appearance of the injected surface. The mi- nute vessels thus weakened are also of so soft a texture, that the slightest force is suffi- cient to rupture them ; indeed, it would seem that this sometimes takes place spontaneously, and extravasation of blood is the consequence. This softening of the vessels may, therefore, thus become the cause of the admixture of blood with the solid or fluid products of in- flammation, as in the case of haemorrhagic pleurisies mentioned by Laennec and others. The most important softening of the vessels is that which takes place when the product of inflammation is susceptible of organization, since it would appear that the minute extra- vasations to which it gives rise are the com- mencement of the new or elongated vessels by which the new texture is to be nourished. This interesting phenomenon in the process of inflammation does not appear to have re- ceived all the attention which it deserves, and