ANEURISM. 237 rupture, and when under such circumstances both the divisions of the innominata remain open, I would then be satisfied with first making a trial of Valsalva’s system of treatment, in the hope that, ultimately, at least one of the vessels might be obliterated and the sac filled with concreted fibrine. Should however, so favour- able a change not ensue, the propriety of tying one of the branches of the innominata is then to be considered; and it appears to me that such an operation ought to be unhesitatingly adopted in cases which would otherwise be hopeless. I may here observe, that it will perhaps be a matter of no small difficulty to ascertain when one of these arterial trunks is obliterated, and I as well as others have been more than once deceived on this point. Con- ceiving that a want of pulsation was a sufficient indication of the closure of an artery, I formed an erroneous opinion in the case of Mrs. Den- mark ; from the pulsation in the carotid and its branches not being perceptible, I sup- posed that the canal was plugged up; but in a short time after the ligature was placed on the subclavian, I was surprised to find the pulsations of the carotid return, and ultimately resume their wonted vigour. It is a fact demonstrated by dissection, and worthy of remark in contemplating this mode of operating, that when a spontaneous cure of aneurism of the innominata has been going on, Nature has usually plugged up the caro- tid, so that in performing an operation for the cure of such an aneurism it would be ad- visable to imitate her in this respect, and to place the ligature on the carotid, in prefer- ence to the subclavian. The advantage of this practice is obvious, for as no vessels pass from the carotid between the ligature and the sac, a greater diminution in the force of the cir- culation in the tumour will follow than if the subclavian were tied, it not being practicable to apply a ligature on that vessel without leav- ing four large branches between the ligature and the sac. I have been taking for granted that the calibre of the carotid and subclavian was about equal. Fig. 70. Fig. 70. This diagram shows the subdivisions of the arteria innominata ; (a a) the aorta from whose arch the three great trunks, (A) the left subclavian, (c) the left carotid, and (d) the arteria innominata emerge. The innominata (d), divides into two great branches ; the right carotid (e), and the subclavian. The sub- clavian gives off'five large branches before it emerges from beneath the scaleni muscles; (/’) the vertebral artery; (g) the internal mammary; (h) the superior intercostal; (i) the thyroid a.ris; (k) the deep cer- vical ; and (l) is the trunk of the subclavian, after it has passed beyond the scaleni muscles, and the point ivliere the ligature is to be applied. In the practical application of this mode of operating for aneurism, it will be of great importance to be able to form an accurate diagnosis in aneurismal swellings of the neck, those particularly of the arteria innominata, and those at the roots of the carotid and sub- clavian arteries. Such diagnosis is generally considered extremely difficult; and erroneous opinions have in several instances been formed as to the site of such tumours by experienced surgeons. I apprehend, however, that the difficulty of distinguishing aneurisms of these different arteries from one another has chiefly arisen from the circumstance of their having been all considered incurable, at least by opera- tion ; and as far as the treatment is concerned, the same system being applicable to all of them, no one has endeavoured to point out their diagnosis. Having had frequent opportunities of ex- amining aneurisms at the root of the carotid and of the innominata, I think that tumours of these different vessels may be generally distinguished from one another; and the diag- nostic characters I have chiefly derived from a consideration of the natural position of the vessels and their relative situation to the sur- rounding parts. When an aneurismal swelling is formed at the root of the carotid, the tumefaction will first be perceived in the small triangular space formed between the heads of the sternal and clavicular portions of the mastoid muscle; and as the tumour increases in bulk, it displaces more or less, or sometimes produces the absorp- tion of a portion of either the one or the other of the heads of that muscle. If the aneurismal swelling be formed in the arteria innominata, then, in place of first making its appearance between the two heads of the mastoid muscle, at the bottom of which space lies the carotid artery, covered merely by a loose cellular membrane and some fat, the tumour rises up from below the sternum, and on the tracheal edge of the sternal por- tion of the mastoid, where the innominata is most uncovered. The situation of the tumour, however, varies according to the part of the artery that is affected; in one case, where the rupture of the internal coats of the innominata took place at the distal extremity of that ves- sel, the other coats yielding in the direction of the impetus of the blood, the tumour took a diagonal direction between the lines of the carotid and subclavian, and thus first appeared in the triangular space on the acromial edge of the mastoid muscle. When the aneurism is formed in the subcla- vian artery, the tumour will rise on the cervical side of the clavicular portion of the mastoid,