ECTOPIA. 58 taking place upon the vertical or the trans- verse axis of the organ. When the rotation is of the former kind, the anterior extremity of the antero-posterior axis is carried too much inwards or outwards, whence arise the states H 1. Luscitas convergens. r] 2. Luscitas divergens. When, on the contrary, the bulb rotates upon its transverse axis, the anterior extre- mity of the antero-posterior axis rises above or falls below its normal level,—states known as T) 3. Luscitas sursum-vergens. r) 4. Luscitas deorsum-vergens. It will be observed, that in the two former varieties, the bearing of the transverse axis, in the two latter the bearing of the vertical axis is affected, as well as that of the antero- posterior. Both the transverse and vertical axes may be at once the centres of partial rotation, from which intermediate conditions of dis- placement follow: with these, too, may be joined a certain degree of rotation upon the antero-posterior axis, still further modifying the precise attitude of the organ. This species of displacement is further illus- trated by the deviation of the antero-posterior axis of the foot inwards in cases of dislocation of the femur on the dorsum of the ileum,— outwards (or in very rare instances inwards) in cases of fracture of the neck of that bone. B. DISPLACEMENTS CHARACTERIZED BY A CHANGE OF SHAPE (heTEROMORPIIISMs). II. Flexion. Flexion implies a bending of the affected part upon itself, and consists of a combination of version of one portion of its vertical axis with a natural condition of the remainder. It presents itself under three varieties: Sr. Anteflexion, i. Retroflexion. k. Laterflexion. The uterus again supplies illustrations. In all the varieties of pure flexion of this organ, the cervix retains its natural position in the centre of the vagina; while the body, flexed upon or towards the anterior, posterior, or lateral surfaces of the neck, at an angle of varying acuteness, falls in one or other of these directions, constituting respectively anteflexion, retroflexion, and Iateriflexion. The appearance of the uterus in anteflexion is exhibited in fig. 204. be made straight; in pure strabismus, on the contrary, the motive power is not lost, and the affected eye is capable of being directed to any object when the other is closed. (Vide British and Foreign Medical Review, vol. xi. p. 475. Apiil, 1841.) Luscitas is, therefore, more legitimately an ectopia than strabismus. The word is classical : Juvenal applies its adjective to Hannibal in the following line (Sat. x. 1. 158. Ed. Ruperti):— “ Quurn Cattula dueem portaret bclua luscum." Fig. 204. Fig. 204. Anteflexion of the uterus (after Boivin and Dugis.) a. Fundus of the uterus; 6, Angle of flexion of the body on the cervix ; c, A nterior labium of the os uteri; d. Section of the body of the uterus; e, Interior of the uterus. It occasionally happens that the cervix of an anteflexed uterus swerves from its normal position in the vagina, the flaccidity of tissue at the angle of flexion not being sufficiently complete to prevent the depressed fundus from acting as a lever upon the opposite end of the organ. Hence arises a tendency to combination of flexion and version ; and the greater this tendency, the more completely the malposition assumes the characters of ordinary anteversion ; we have elsewhere de- scribed an example of this mixed form of dis- placement l. In some cases of obliquity of the uterus, the cervix is flexed to the same side as the fundus, whence a compound displacement, in which the organ is actually curved. Flexion may be further illustrated by some of the permanent displacements induced by vicious cicatrisation after burns. Thus the head may be retained in a state of anteflexion on the chest, or of Iateriflexion on the shoul- der ; the leg of retroflexion on the thigh, &c. III. Kampsis2, or Incurvation, is produced by deviation of all the axes of a part simul- taneously, or indifferently and irregularly. Here are comprised the important classes, X. Curvature, g. Distortion. These conditions are, to a certain extent, degrees of each other ; the term curvature being applicable to deviations of the kind stated, so long as some appearance of regu- larity of form is retained ; distortion when all trace of regular conformation has disappeared. The long bones and the spinal column are the chief subjects of curvature. It affects the spine in three different directions ; to the re- 1 Lancet, Dec. 18.38. 2 from KUfxTrru), to bend.