ANEURISM. 219 quet surrounding the limb, any degree of pressure may be applied on the compress, the whole limb having been previously secured from the action of the instrument by a piece of board wider than the limb itself, placed ou the opposite side to the tourniquet,—by which means the tumour alone will be compressed. (Freer.) The compressor of Dupuytren, which is usually employed in France, consists of a semicircle of solid steel, having at one extre- mity a large concave cushion adapted to the posterior part of the limb opposite to the diseased artery, and at the other extremity there is a pad which can be brought near to the cushion or removed from it by means of a spiral spring and screw. The pad is to be applied upon the artery, so that by turning the screw the requisite degree of pressure is made, and is confined to the two opposing points of the limb on which the cushion or pad is placed. When the screw is tightened, the instrument may be employed either for making the necessary degree of compression on the tumour, or on the artery above, or below the aneurism, as may be deemed most advisable. An easy mode of applying compression upon an aneurismal tumour may be accom- plished, by spreading a layer of plaster of Paris on the surface of the tumour upon which a moderate degree of pressure is to be after- wards made with a bandage. Besides the pres- sure effected by the bandage, there is a certain degree of compression produced by the con- traction which takes place in plaster of Paris during its consolidation : at intervals of a few days the plaster should be removed and a new coating applied. By this means, Mr. Bennett Lucas cured a popliteal aneurism, without causing the degree of pain which usually is created by the other modes of ap- plying pressure. Compression on the capillary side of the tumour has also been proposed, and the plan was once adopted in a case of inguinal aneur- ism, but the force of the pulsations in the tumour were increased to such a degree as to render this mode of treatment inadmissible. ( Vernet.) The most common mode of using pressuro for the cure of an external aneurism is by the compression of the whole limb, and it is of importance to bear in mind that pressure thus employed, whilst it diminishes the momentum of the blood in the diseased artery, must not be carried to such a degree as to interrupt the circulation in the other arteries of the limb, or that of the veins and absorbents; and above all, in the nerves. Any undue pressure upon the arteries will be the means of pre- venting a sufficient quantity of arterial blood being circulated for the nourishment of the limb, and if the absorbents be compressed, and the venous circulation interrupted, the limb will become oedematous ; and if pressure he made upon any of the nervous trunks, the pain will be so great as to render a continu- ance of the practice inadmissible. This gene- ral compression of the limb is best effected by applying a roller firmly, but not tightly, com- mencing at the extremities of the toes and fingers, and extending it above the aneurismal tumour. But, before the compression is ap- plied to the tumour a compress ought to be placed, not only upon the aneurism, but over the trajet of the diseased artery on its capil- lary side. The bandages may be kept moist- ened with astringent lotions, and the curative effects of this compression are to be assisted by the complete rest of the limb, the evacu- ating treatment, the horizontal posture, and all such means as diminish the force of the blood’s circulation. Compression, in whatever mode it may have been successfully applied, has been sup- posed to cure an aneurismal tumour when small and of recent formation, by causing the sides of the artery to come in contact, and thus obliterating the tumour ; whereas, when an aneurism is of a large size, and of long standing, compression cures the disease either by obstructing the circulation in the diseased vessel, or by diminishing the force of the cur- rent of the blood in the tumour, and thus per- mitting the coagulation of the blood to pro- ceed more rapidly. In all cases of external aneurism, where there are no inflammatory symptoms or ten- derness of the swelling, or where these have been completely subdued by local as well as general remedies, compression may then be considered as particularly applicable ; but on the contrary, when the tumour is tender to the touch and accompanied with inflammation, any mode of using compression is highly im- proper ; indeed, if employed under such cir- cumstances, it will aggravate the disease which it is intended to remedy. Even under the most favourable circumstances, the cure of an external aneurism by compression will gene- rally be found to be attended with many diffi- culties, and hence the number of cures which have been performed by this mode of treat- ment variously modified have been compara- tively few, and the successful results, unfortu- nately so uncertain, have seldom been ob- tained without causing much suffering. A certain degree of compression may, in some cases, be employed with great advan- tage to diminish the tension of the integuments, and may prolong the continuance of life by preventing the bursting of the tumour. For such a purpose an external aneurism may be covered over with strips of adhesive plaster, and these may be applied in such a manner as not only to form a protection to the parietes of the t umour by giving them additional thick- ness, but they may be applied so firmly, and cover the tumour in such a variety of direc- tions, as even to diminish its bulk as well as to resist its further distension from the impetus of the blood. OPERATIONS FOR ANEURISM. By far the most certain mode of curing an