708 CATARACT. opaque without having been detached or having lost its vitality. The capsule of the lens is incapable of being dissolved by the aqueous humour. The anterior part of the capsule of the lens is much more frequently affected with opacity than the posterior part. Capsular cataracts are in general of an uni- form pearl or chalk white colour, and appear to be situated nearer to the iris than when opacity is confined to the lens. The opacity may affect the anterior part of the capsule partially or wholly. When partially, it has often a speckled or striated appearance. Cataract of the posterior capsule of the lens is comparatively of rare occurrence. “ The opacity is never uniformly diffused, but always exhibits the form of radiating lines proceeding from the centre of the affected membrane. The ground upon which these opaque lines are placed, is evidently concave, while the lines themselves, being seen through the crys- talline, have a watery dulness of appearance, which forms a striking contrast with the sharp, chalky whiteness of the specks, in anterior capsular cataract. Occasionally both hemi- spheres of the capsule are the seat of partial opacity, the lens remaining transparent Secondary cataract of the posterior part of the capsule has sometimes the appearance of a few opaque shreds upon the anterior part of the vitreous humour. In some cases these shreds appear to radiate from a centre. Cataract of the posterior part of the cap- sule, when seen through the lens, appears to be deep seated, leaving a concave surface, and does not appear to possess the same degree of opacity which we so frequently observe in other kinds of cataract. “ This change in the capsule is followed by opacity in the lens ; it may exist, however, a considerable time before the lens begins to lose its transparency. Al- though the affection is comparatively rare, I have seen many cases of posterior capsular cataract ; the patients are still able to read large, or even ordinary print long after the existence of the disease has been clearly as- certained. They can see much better when the eye is shaded, or when the pupil is arti- ficially dilated. In the latter state we see distinctly the transparent spaces between the opaque radii, through which the light passes to the retina. When opacity of the lens com- mences, which may not be for two, three, or more years, vision is more seriously im- paired 1 2.” In many cases of cataract, apparently af- fecting the posterior part of the capsule of the lens, the opacity is found to exist in the lens itself when an operation is performed. (c) Morgagnian Cataract.—Opacity of the Morgagnian fluid, between the capsule and the lens, forms a rare species of cataract. “ The effusion of an opaque fluid between the lens and its capsule, forms one of the rarest kinds 1 Mackenzie on the Rye, etl. p. 650. 2 Lawrence on the Eye, p. 404. of cataract. It is generally followed, after a time, by disorganization and dissolution of the lens, and, not unfrequently, by capsular opa- city. “ So long as this cataract consists in a mere effusion between the capsule and lens, it presents a cloudy appearance, as if formed of milk and water imperfectly mixed. It is stated that if the eyeball is repeatedly rubbed with the finger through the medium of the eyelid, the clouds of opacity change their outline and position ; and sometimes they do so merely on quick motion of the eye from side to side. “ The capsule is distended in cases of Mor- gagnian cataract, and pressing against the iris, obliterates the posterior chamber, and impedes the motions of the pupil. “ When the disease is purely Morgagnian, vision is sometimes but slightly impaired, small objects escaping the observation of the patient, especially after the eye has been rubbed or moved ; but after the lens dis- solves, the sight is limited to the perception of light and shade (d) Cajmilo-Lenticular Cataract. — Opacity of the lens and its capsule are very frequently conjoined in the same case. “ Partial capsular opacity is not unfrequently combined with firm lenticular cataract, the two strata being readily distinguished, not only by their colour, but by their position. More commonly the lens is soft in capsulo-lenticular cataracts, and the capsule itself, having been the seat of the disease, is more or less thickened and indu- rated. Hence the cataract is generally large, often pushing forwards the iris, and making it bulge against the cornea, so as to destroy for the time the anterior chamber2.” When an opaque lens is either fluid or softer than natural, the capsule is generally opaque also. A semi-opaque lens having some parts quite white, like spots or specks upon it, is a common form of this kind of cataract; those parts where both capsule and lens are affected, having a more opaque appearance than the rest. This kind of cataract presents several dif- ferent and distinct species. These are so dis- similar, that authors have been enabled to describe them as distinct varieties. These arc: 1st. Central capsulo-lenticular cataract, when the opacity is confined to a single central opaque spot. This is not unfrequent in chil- dren whose eyes have suffered from internal inflammation. By some this form of cataract has been considered congenital. 2d. Common capsulo-lenticular cataract, or that form of it most frequently inet with. It takes place from injuries of the lens as well as spontane- ously. The opacity is partly of a chalk or pearl-white colour, as in the anterior capsular cataract, and partly cloudy, as in the lenticular and Morgagnian cataract. The opaque specks upon the capsule present numerous different forms in different cases, and hence by the 1 Mackenzie, p. 650. 2 Lawrence, p. 405.