392 FRACTURE. which require daily dressing, may at times preclude all choice. It is only when the fracture is decidedly above the lower third of the leg, that any re- straining apparatus will be required to act above the knee. Mr. Pott, in advocating the bent position for the treatment of fractures of the two bones, advised that the limb should rest on its outer side, on pillows ; but there appears to be nothing in his views opposed to the other method of flexion. A splint to include the foot and knee, both on the inside and out, and well padded, were to be adapted as the surgeon, with his assistants, completed exten- sion and coaptation, (the limb being in the proposed posture,) and then secured over a many-tailed bandage and soap-plaster. Pil- lows beneath the whole limb were arranged to give it both ease and security. We should remember that Pott was unacquainted with many contrivances which afforded a choice of position. His position is least objectionable, and sometimes indispensable for injuries near the ankle ; but it does not include any means of confining the knee. Fig. 339. Mr. Amesbury's apparatus for Fractures of the Leg. “ Composition. — A thigh-piece, pro- perly shaped to receive the back of the thigh, having a pair of lateral splints connected with it, and some studs for the retention of straps;— a leg-piece, immovably connected to the thigh-piece at an angle, and hol- lowed out for the reception of the back of the leg ;—a foot-piece, which may be so shifted as to adapt the leg-piece to the length of the leg. The foot-piece shoxdd not rise higher than is necessary to form a right angle ivith the leg-piece when connected with it. There are some holes in each side of this, and a strap is attached to it, having upon one end a buckle;—a shoe, with a wooden sole, for the reception and retention of the foot, to which are attached two straps for connecting it with the foot-board ; the shoe is supported by a foot-strap, which, when in use, extends from one side of the thigh- piece round the lower part of the foot-board, where it is passed under a strip of leather placed there to keep it in its place, and then carried up to the opposite side of the thigh-piece, where it is buckled. “ The apparatus ought to be adapted to the sound limb in cases of simple fracture of the leg, and well pad- ded ; a small concave pad too should be placed on the inside of the heel of the shoe, and another pad upon the sole. Two side-splints are required, the outer one extending from the foot-board to the upper part of the outer condyle of the femur, and the inner one from the foot-board to the inner condyle ;—also a split deal shin-splint; and in cases of oblique frac- ture a thin pad to he applied upon the instep, covered with a piece of paste-board, a little wetted, which, when dry, serves to equalize the pressure and keep the instep easy. “ Application.—In the first or Inflammatory stage.— The shoe, a, containing the heel and sole-pads, should be carefully placed upon the foot; the instep-pad should then be placed upon tlte instep, and the shoe closed over it, and closely confined to the foot by means of the buckles and straps attached to it for that purpose. An assistant should then place one hand under the knee, and., taking the foot in the other, raise the fractured limb, bringing it round so as to The straight position, with side-splints of equal or unequal lengths, with or without a foot-piece on one or both sides; or the same position, the calf resting on a long excavated splint, with a sole-piece, may sometimes suf- fice ; or, at least, be available in the absence of other resources, or under particular circum- stances of open fracture, or extensive wounds. In a large number of cases, however, and perhaps in all, there will be found great ad- vantages in placing the patient on his back, with the knee considerably flexed, and the thigh confined with the leg. Mr. MTntyre’s splint,—a form of double-inclined plane, with a foot-piece, and moveable side pieces for the leg, is well adapted for the objects desired. Frac- ture boxes, in which the flexed leg rests hori- zontally on the calf, with moveable pegs along each side, afford great facilities, both in the way of firm support and ready access, and admit of the employment of various short leg- splints. They are, however, less secure for fractures of the upper half of the tibia than the apparatus of Mr. MTntyre or that of Mr. Amesbury. Fig. 339. let it rest upon the heel. When the limb is raised, the surgeon places the apparatus under it, and brings the angle of the same opposite the bend of the knee, directing the assistant to lower the limb upon it. “ The surgeon now fixes the shoe, a, to the foot-board, b, by means of the straps attached to the sole. By the aid of this shoe he is enabled to raise or lower the foot according to the length of the heel or thickness of the calf, so as to bring the lower portion of the frac- tured bones into a proper line with the upper, as far as respects any angular projection backward or for- ward. A padded splint shoxdd be placed upon the front of the thigh, and the whole of the thigh-part of the apparatus fixed to the thigh by ineans of the straps, c. That done, the foot-board shoxdd be raised nearly to a right angle with the leg-piece, and fixed in this position by the foot-strap, d, care being taken that the heel does not bear against the sole of the shoe. The fractured ends should next be noticed; and if the foot requires to be raised or lowered, it may be done by means of the strap which confines the shoe to the foot-board. “ The part of the pad, e, which lies under the small of the leg, should be raised and supported in close con- tact with it by means of tow placed between tlte pad and this part of the apparatus, so that the whole length of the back ofihe leg may have an equal bear- ing xipon the apparatus. “ The lateral splints are next to be applied, the longest upon the oxder side of the leg, and the shortest xipon its inner side. The lower ends of these splints shoxdd be fastened to the foot-board by means of narrow tapes passed through the holes at the sides, and the upper end kept close to the leg by the circular strap.