64 ALESE. vascularity whatever. Its effects iu intercept- ing the entrance of the rays of light into the eye are easily understood,—effects the more complete, in proportion as the opacity occu- pies a more central position, or a greater por- tion of the cornea : when it is spread over the entire cornea the blindness is total. When the albugo is small, even though it be situated in the centre of the cornea, vision is still ex- ercised, as the light passes in at its sides ; and in this case, the sight will be best in obscure places, owing to the greater dilatation of the pupil. The albugo produces neither depres- sion nor elevation of the cornea, two states which characterize respectively the former, the Leucoma, the latter pustules on the cor- nea. It differs also from the Nebula in its being opaque. The disease depends upon the deposition of opaque lymph in a structure, which, for the due exercise of vision, should be translucent. Whatever, therefore, can give activity to the absorbent vessels of the part will be calculated to remove it. In young persons, in whom ab- sorption is very active, the removal of these opacities is often effected either spontaneously, or in consequence of the treatment adopted. The reverse of this is observed in persons of advanced years. But it should be observed, that their curability depends often on other conditions that have no relation to the age of the person. Where the deposition of lymph is lightest, the cure is, ceeteris paribus, the most certain ; where the deposition is considerable, less so ; and where, with the deposition, the laminae of the cornea have become adherent, least of all, as the cicatrix cannot be oblite- rated. It is sometimes complicated with sta- phyloma, and other affections of the globe of the eye. During the inflammation of the eye the effusion of lymph is combated by the usual remedies. (See Cornea.) When the active state has passed away, topical applications must be had recourse to to excite the absorbents. For this purpose a great variety of substances, of various forms too, have been recommended. That great compiler of remedies, Pliny, boasts of the good effects of the gall of sheep, pike, and barbel, applied to the cornea with a camel- hair pencil three or four times a day ; he ex- tols in the same manner various resins : but these remedies are now laid aside. Dry col- lyria, composed of calcined alum, and sugar finely powdered ; calomel and sugar, which Dupuytren used to recommend ; nitrate of potass, or oxide of zinc and sugar candy are now used with good effect ; they are applied by the insufflation into the eye, of a small quan- tity once or twice a day, through a quill. Clo- quet employs the oxide of bismuth in the same way, a seton being established at the back of the neck at the same time. Scarpa recommends the following colly- rium :—Ammon. Muriat. 9ij. ; Cupri Acetati, gr. iv.; Aquae Calcis, ^viij. Misce. The fluid is allowed to stand twenty-four hours, and is then filtered. He praises also the following ointment : Ijb Oxide of zinc, Bi. ; aloes and calomel, a.a. gr. ij. ; fresh butter, ^ss. Jan- nin’s ointment is also employed, with other ointments and washes, in which the nitrate of silver, the sulphate of zinc, the tutia prepa- rata, alum, &c. &c. form the chief ingredient. The topical treatment should be persevered in for three or four months to produce the dis- persion of the opacity ; and in many cases it cannot be effected by any means that we can employ. (See Cornea.) ( Wm. B. Costello.) ALCALI, a word of Arabic origin, from al, “ the,” and kali, the name of the salso/a soda, a plant which contains a large quantity of one of the principal alkalies—soda. The mineral alcalies are employed in surgery ; and, in the pure and concentrated state, they exer- cise the most powerful action on the living tissues, producing vesication, superficial or deep eschars, and even total disorganization, according to the length of time they are al- lowed to remain in contact with them. On account of this property they are employed for external use in opening abscesses, when the skin has been thinned to a considerable extent, and all but disorganized, to establish issues, to check luxuriant granulations, to ar- rest phagedenic sloughing, as in hospital gan- grene, malignant carbuncle. (See Caustics, Cauterization.) ALCOHOL, an Arabic word signifying any thing very subtile, much divided: in this sense it was formerly applied to fine and impalpable powders. It is now applied only to the pro- ducts of the vinous or spirituous fermentation. From its great volatility it is employed exter- nally in lotion, as a refrigerant, to check rising inflammation from burns, blows, sprains, con- tusions, &c.; in fomentations, united with camphor, as a resolutive, tonic, and antisep- tic ; as a stimulant in syncope, in frictions to the temples, region of the heart, and nostrils ; and in injections with water into the tunica vaginalis, for the cure of hydrocele. Harris speaks favourably of its application in cases of erysipelas, painful inflammation of blisters, in gangrene, &c. ALGALIE, a word of Arabic origin, sig- nifying a tube, or hollow cylinder. (See Ca- theter.) ALESE, or ALEZE, Fr. linteum, Lat. (from aXti-w, “ I preserve,”) a guard, Eng. A name given by French surgeons to a sheet arranged into folds, and thus placed under the patient, in order to protect the bed. Several advantages are secured by the timely use of the aleze, viz., the comfort of the patient who is freed from the contact of pus, sanies, and all excrementitial matters which, if al- lowed to accumulate, would become offensive and dangerous to health ; cleanliness about him is easily kept, and the economy so desir- able in public establishments is judiciously provided for. Linen sheets that have been