571 CALCULUS. investigation of urinary deposits, introduced in the service of M. Uuyer, and well described by M. Vigla1, is the examination of these with the microscope. Some of the results of M. Vigla’s investigations have already been given in the general view of the lithic depo- sits, and we shall have occasion in the course of this article to refer to others, Sedimentary Urine in which the Deposit con- sists of the Earthy and Earthy-Alkaline Phos- phates.—We have seen the existence of the lithic acid in a state of solution to be incom- patible with the presence of a free acid in the urine. The earthy phosphates, on the other hand, and especially the phosphate of lime, are only held in solution by virtue of the ex- cess of acid with which they are combined, or in consequence of the presence of some other free acid in the urine, which can in many cases be demonstrated to be the carbonic. The neutral phosphate of lime 2 is a salt to all intents and purposes insoluble. Phosphate of magnesia, another urinous salt, is not very soluble,requir- ing at least fifty times its weight of water to take it up. Phosphate of ammonia, indeed, is soluble enough by itself, but in combination with the phosphate of magnesia, as it always exists in urine, it become exceedingly inso- luble. A slight excess of phosphoric acid, and, as it would appear, the presence of car- bonic acid in some cases, put an end to the insoluble character of these salts ; as super- phosphates or carbo-phosphates they become readily soluble, and are safely carried out of the system. Like the lithic sediments, those consisting of the phosphates occur either in the crystal- lized or amorphous state. In the former case the crystals are white and glistening, and their formation is frequently accompanied with the precipitation at the same time of a certain quantity of the amorphous lithic sediment. A condition of the renal secretion in which the lithic acid is deposited would not appear to be incompatible with a ruddy complexion, a feel- ing of high health, and such a state of the bodily functions as does not debar from in- dulging the animal appetites of hunger and thirst. There is here a state of hypersthenia, as the older pathologists would have called it; if there be aught amiss, it is merely some slight dryness of the lips, and rather more heat of skin than occurs with perfect health. When the phosphates are habitually deposited, however, the state of matters is widely differ- ent ; even the mildest form of the phosphatic diathesis, that, namely, in which crystals of the triple phosphate of ammonia and magnesia are formed, is never seen among the robust and ruddy. It is constantly preceded and accompanied by such a degree of nervous irritability and general delicacy of health, com- 1 L'Experience, Nos. 12, 13, 26, and 27. Palis, 1837-3(1. s Dr. Henry reckons tho quantity of phosphate of lime contained in the urine at as much as half a grain to each ounce of the healthy fluid. Elcm. of Chcm. vol. ii. bined in the vast majority of instances with so much disturbance of the digestive functions, that the appearance of an individual is mostly of itself a sufficient index of the form of uri- nary derangement under which he is labouring. The phosphatic state of urine, when observ- ed at an early period, is generally found to alternate with that in which the cream-colour- ed or pale-tawny amorphous lithic sediment occurs. By and by, however, and as the con- stitutional peculiarity with which it is associated becomes confirmed, the lithic deposits are observed more and more rarely ; and, finally, when the constitution is completely broken up, they do not appear at all. As might be presumed, the phosphatic dia- thesis presents different phases according to circumstances. When first induced in indivi- duals of nervous temperament and delicate constitution, along with the low-toned symp- toms of general disturbance, we observe more or less of uneasiness, rarely amounting to pain, in the back and lumbar region. The urine is invariably pale coloured when passed, and is as uniformly secreted in excess, so that there is almost always a certain degree of hyper- uresis present as a distinct feature in the com- plaint. This urine is not uncommonly weakly acid when first voided; very frequently, how- ever, it is neutral; and after the disorder has continued for some time, or is increasing in severity, it never fails to become alkaline. Its specific gravity varies greatly according to the period of the day when it is examined ; the writer has found it as low as 1,004 in the early part of the day, and as high as 1,033 about eleven o’clock at night, the time when he has always found the urine to possess the highest density. This urine passes much more rapidly than the decidedly acid lithic urine into putre- faction, when it exhales a most offensive odour, and evolves an abundance of ammonia. It rarely happens that crystals of the phos- phates are deposited within the body ; when they are, it is almost always in cases of renal derangement of some standing cases in which the kidneys and bladder are deeply implicated, and the urine, in consequence of this, is ara- moniacal before it is discharged. It has, in- deed, been made matter of doubt whether crystals of the phosphates were ever deposited within the pelvis of the kidney. Such an oc- currence is undoubtedly rare, but it has hap- pened ; gravelly concretions, composed of the triple phosphate and of the phosphate of lime every now and then present themselves, and there are few extensive collections of calculi in which several wall not be discovered having- one of these for a nucleus. The phosphates, however, are just as commonly met with en- crusting or forming the outer laminae of urinary calculi, as they are rarely found composing their centres. When crystals of the ammonia- magnesian phosphate are discharged with the urine, they constitute what is called white sand, in contradistinction to red sand, which consists of the lithic acid.