FISTULA, INTESTINAL. 209 that the patients were affected with fever, and vomiting', and that the face became con- tracted and of a dark hue. He states that a patient died from inflammation, occasioned by the use of the enterotome, in the Hotel Dieu of Amiens, and that other fatal cases have been recorded. A patient treated by M. Velpeau 1 died from fecal effusion on the seventh day, after the application of the enterotome. Scarcely any adhesion had been effected. These unfavourable results ought not only to guard the operator from being too san- guine in his expectations of success, but also to impress upon his mind the importance and necessity of using every effort to avert or mitigate those injurious consequences to which the operation, undoubtedly fraught witii dan- ger, may probably give rise. Duly estimating the importance of the objections advanced by M. Jobert against the operation of Dupuytren. we must never- theless regard it as a splendid boon to sur- gery ; and we subscribe most willingly to the eulogy pronounced upon it by Mr. Lawrence, who considers that “ the method of Dupuytren, founded as it was on a long series of anatomical, physiological, and prac- tical researches, aided by persevering reflec- tion and a remarkable fertility in resources against surgical obstacles and difficulties, does the highest credit to the talents, knowledge, and ingenuity of its illustrious author.” Modification of the enterotome.—M. Del- pech successfully employed, in a case of intes- tinal fistula following mortified hernia, an in- strument somewhat differently constructed from that of M. Dupuytren. Each of the branches was a little curved, and ended in an oval plate an inch in length. When intro- duced, and brought together by the screw, in consequence of the curved form of the branches, such portion only of the intestinal partition was compressed as was inclosed be- tween the two plates. The object was to destroy a smaller portion of the partition at one time, and to repeat the process until a suf- ficient opening should be made in it. It was also imagined that the form of opening thus produced would be more advantageous than the elongated slit, resulting from the applica- tion of Dupuytren’s instrument. The result of this case was perfectly satisfactory, but it is doubtful whether the modified form of the enterotome possesses any advantages over the original. The broad extremity of the blades would generally be attended with more diffi- culty in the introduction, when the external wound is much contracted ; and, on bringing the compressing parts of the blades into ap- position, there would be greater risk of in- cluding within their grasp neighbouring por- tions of omentum or intestine. Besides, it is known that the elongated opening produced by Dupuytren’s enterotome is quite adequate to the free transmission of the intestinal con- 1 Journal Hobdomadaire, Juillet 1!!3G. VOL. II. tents, and that by their pressure it assumes a rounded form. In the case examined by professor Lallemand, seven years after the operation, the intestine “ presented the usual circular figure.” With a view of obtaining a circular opening in the partition, an enterotome has been de- vised, having each of the branches terminated by a large segment of a circle. One segment has a prominent edge which is received into a corresponding groove in the other. Each segment is provided with joints, moved by a sliding stem, allowing their circular form to be temporarily altered into the elliptical, for the convenience of introduction into a narrow aperture. Time of operation.— From the successful case of Delpech, in which the enterotome was ap- plied on the forty-first day after the gan- grenous hernia was opened, it appears that the operation may be safely undertaken at this early period ; but it may be doubted whether, as a general rule, the time selected in the case of Delpech, is not earlier than is desirable, at least in those cases of intestinal fistula which result from mortified hernia ; for it has been shown, that, in this form of the affection, the spontaneous efforts of nature to relieve the local mischief are great, and that they are progressively advancing for a long period of time. It would therefore be unwise to subject the patient to so formidable an operation until all hope of spontaneous cure had ceased. When the abnormal opening has been produced by wound of the abdomen attended with loss of substance of the intes- tine, there is less hope of the natural powers restoring the continuity of the canal; and consequently in such cases the enterotome might with propriety be applied at an earlier period. Future experience must decide whether it is safer to apply the pressure in the first in- stance with such intensity as entirely to de- stroy the vitality of the included parts, or to use more moderate pressure at first, and gra- dually to increase it afterwards. M. Dupuy- tren says, “We need not fear to carry the pressure of the enterotome on the first day, so far as to suspend life in the included parts. This is the plan most likely to prevent pain and inflammation.” Mr. Lawrence recom- mends that the pressure of the forceps should be lessened by means of the screw, and again increased when the patient can bear it, if pain and other symptoms occur which cannot be removed by the use of warm cloths and fomen- tations. This gentleman is also of opinion that a firmly consolidated union of the divided parts is more likely to be attained by pro- ceeding slowly ; and he seems to attribute the want of success in the case treated by Velpeau to the rapidity with which the parts were divided. But in this case the division was not effected until the seventh day after the application of the instrument, which is but one day earlier than the average period when the section has been accomplished with perfect P