14 ABORTION. Diseases of the Woman.—The persons in general most predisposed to abort, are women of sanguine temperament and plethoric habit, in whom a determination of blood to the uterus and its appendages is well marked by excessive and irregular menstruation ; women of high sensibility who have from any cause been greatly debilitated, or who have been addicted to masturbation in early life. A lia- bility to abortion may arise also from consti- tutional vices, such as syphilis, cachexy, scro- fula, &c. and finally from acute and chronic diseases, malformations of the spine or pelvis, tight-lacing, &c. Anterior miscarriages are amongst the most ordinary predisposing causes. In regard to the genital organs themselves, rigidity of the fibres of the body of the uterus, and their resistance to its gradual and natural dilatation after conception; the too great sen- sibility and contractility, the thinness and laxity of this organ ; the atony resulting from chronic leucorrhea, and severe parturitions, may be justly ranked amongst the causes of abortion. To these may be added inordinate heat in the womb, indicative of chronic me- tritis, displacements, deformities, adhesions, organic degenerescences of the uterus or its appendages, the presence of two or more foetuses, producing a too rapid dilatation, and in fine, any disease in the parietes of the womb that prevents its natural development during pregnancy, or in the organs connected with it in function, as for instance neuralgia, or rheu- matism of the ovaries. They often produce abortions which recur at the same period of successive pregnancies, and these are termed periodical by some authors. Thus fibro-cartilaginous or other morbid alterations in the parietes of the uterus, or adhesion of this organ to any of the vicinal parts, will prevent its development during pregnancy, and excite it to expel its contents prematurely. In such cases abortion generally occurs at a certain period of uterine gesta- tion ; because the uterus will not suffer dis- tention beyond a certain extent, as its organ- ization is so deranged as not to admit of expansion without causing irritation and uterine contractions. It was the opinion of Peu, and many other writers, that women affected with rachitism in an extreme degree, so as to implicate the pelvis, ought not to marry. But many women with some degree of spinal deformity have no pelvic contraction, and may bring forth off- spring with perfect safety. I have been con- sulted in numerous cases of spinal deformity, as to the safety or propriety of individuals entering into the matrimonial state ; and un- less where the pelvis was so deformed that cephalotomy or gastro-hysterotomy would be required at the full term of uterine gestation, have not unfrequently decided that they might. It is true, however, when the deformity of the spine is considerable, the woman is very liable to miscarriage. In those cases in which one hip is much more elevated than the other, or in which one inferior extremity is longer than the other, accompanied by more or less 12 spinal curvature, there is generally danger of abortion or premature labour, or difficult parturition at the full term of pregnancy. Women affected with profuse leucorrhoea, or atony of the uterus, are very much predis- posed to abortion. It was observed by Juncker1, Stolz2, and other writers, that corpulent women very often miscarry. It is also known, that in marshy and malarious countries, under certain con- stitutions of the weather, abortions have be- come epidemic, as mentioned by Hippocrates, and as noticed at Vienna in 1788-893. I might quote numerous authors who have re- ferred to the occurrence of epidemic abortions in different seasons. Thus they were ob- served after the humid heat in 1696 ; the dry heat of the years 10 and 11 of the French Republic4, 1802-3; the mild and windy sea- son of 17765; the intense heat of 18116; the mild winter of 18167; and after the rainy season of 18218. These records prove the correctness of the popular opinion, that abor- tions are more common in certain seasons than in others. Experience has also demonstrated that women who become pregnant at a very early, or at an advanced, period of life, are more exposed to abortion, than those who be- come mothers between the twentieth and fortieth year. It is a medical axiom, that women who marry too early or too late in life, generally purchase the pleasures of maternity at too dear a rate. The majority of those who are mothers between the age of twelve years and a half and fifteen are not sufficiently developed to bear the inconveniences of preg- nancy ; their general health becomes deranged, and their parturition and puerperality are often anormal. Those who become mothers from the age of twenty-eight or thirty to forty or forty-five have the muscles and ligaments connected with the outlet of the pelvis so rigid, that they suffer most severely, and frequently lose the first infant. When this disease is excited by rigidity of the fibres of the uterus, it recurs at later periods in successive pregnancies, because the uterus expands to a greater extent during each preg- nancy : but when abortion is caused by laxity or atony of the neck of the organ, this morbid state increases in each successive pregnancy, and the abortion happens earlier. Among the causes of abortion or premature labour may be included, violent mental emo- tions, passions, longings, alarm or fright, dread of thunder, explosions of artillery, impression of strong or disagreeable odours, sight of dis- gusting objects, errors of diet, privation of sleep, rest, or food, abuse of stimulating food or drink, over exertion in walking, riding, danc- ing, running, jolting of carriages, raising or 1 Petiot, Thesis at Strashurg, 1815. 2 Deubel, Thesis at Sirasburg, 1834. 3 Stoll., Ratio Med. t. iii., 1789. ■* Fick in Deubel. 5 Rogny, Annal. Clin, dc Montp. t. ix. 6 Noegele in Deubel. 7 Fischer Herfeland's Journ. t. 47. 8 Osiander in Deubel, and many others.