CALCULUS. 559 in length, was extracted, after which, with proper care, the patient recovered completely. In another case, the particulars of which have been given by the excellent writer just quoted, there was so much pain, enlargement and in- duration of one of the submaxillary glands, that he was led to conclude, though no more than one small calculus was passed, that the whole of the ducts were filled with concretions. Acting upon this impression, the patient was put upon a course of carbonate of potash, of which he took twelve grains daily, in cinnamon water, and with the effect of gradually reducing the hardness and size of the affected gland. The composition of salivary calculi appears to vary little. They have generally been found to consist principally of phosphate of lime, united or not with smaller portions of the carbonate of the same base, and with more or less of an animal matter which seems to play the part of a cement. The calculi which are occasionally encoun- tered in the duct of the pancreas are, in all probability, of the same essential nature as those of the salivary glands, and are produced under similar circumstances. Pemberton found them entirely soluble in muriatic acid, with the disengagement of a large volume of car- bonic acid gas, which seems to point to the presence of a considerable quantity of carbo- nate of lime in their constitution. Biliary Calculi.—Cholelithi.—These cal- culi are most commonly met with in the gall- bladder; but frequently also in the biliary ducts at every point in their course—the ducti hepatici, ductus cysticus, and ductus choledochus com- munis. They are also occasionally met with in the stomach and intestines, and are con- stantly observed passing away by stool. Gall- stones are indeed far more common morbid products than is generally suspected : they are every day met with in the bodies of those who during their lives had never been suspected to labour under anything of the sort, and who died of diseases altogether unconnected with the liver. Biliary calculi vary in size, from that of coarse sand or grit, up to that of a pullet’s or duck’s egg, and in numbers from one, two, or three, up to many hundreds. When nu- merous, they are small; very large biliary calculi are commonly single, and generally of a rounded or ovoid form; when they are numerous, they are always polygonal, and of very irregular shapes. Few of them are heavier than water, and most of them swim in that fluid ; as they are of different kinds, how- ever, so some of them are found of a specific gravity superior to that of water. Biliary calculi are mostly of a brownish, or dark greenish-yellow colour. But they are occasionally seen blackish, of a light yellow, of a pretty pure white, and variegated. They differ considerably in the state of their ex- ternal surface ; generally they are smooth, and unctuous to the feel; sometimes they are rough and nodulated. When cut through, or broken, they are commonly found to consist of con- centric lamellae on the outside, and in the centre, either to have a radiated crystalline- looking, white-coloured nucleus, or a mass of a darker hue, without any determinate arrange- ment of particles ; occasionally entire calculi are met with which have this homogeneous structure. The laminated external portion, in one case of biliary calculus, when it exists, bears a large proportion to the nucleus ; and in another, the reverse of this obtains. In regard to their chemical constitution, biliary calculi seem referable to three grand species, which, by one of the latest chemical writers on the subject \ have been denominated Cholesterine calculi, Mellitic calculi, and Inspis- sated bile calculi. Cholesterine Calculi have generally a white colour, and a crystallized, shining, lamellated structure. Sometimes they show a lighter, and sometimes a darker shade of brown, owing doubtless to the presence of bile mingled with them, in various proportions. These calculi are by no means common, neither are they of any great magnitude (the largest met with has scarcely exceeded a hazel-nut in size), and they are generally spherical in figure, from there being seldom more than one found in the same gall-bladder. They are exceedingly light,—the substance of which they consist, cholesterine, having a specific gravity consider- ably under that of w'ater. Mellitic Calculi. — These are by much the most common species of biliary calculi. They have their designation from their colour, which closely resembles that of honey of a deep colour. Mellitic calculi are generally polygonal in shape, occasioned by mutual pressure, for it very rarely happens that where one calculus of this kind exists several are not present. When we find the gall bladder and biliary ducts crammed full of calculi, they are almost certainly of the kind now under con- sideration. Mellitic calculi are generally smooth on the surface, w'hich also feels soft and unctuous. When broken, they generally exhibit a thin outer crust, composed of con- centric laminae, crystallized in small rays, in- clining towards the centre. These crystalline layers are cholesterine ; the nucleus or central mass has usually the appearance of granulated honey. In point of chemical composition, about nineteen parts in twenty of mellitic cal- culi consist of cholesterine ; the remaining part appears to be picromel and other animal matters which have not been particularly examined. Notwithstanding the large proportion of cho- lesterine in the composition of the mellitic biliary calculus, this principle must exist in a different state—a state of greater condensa- tion—than it does in the proper cholesterine calculus; for the specific gravity of the two kinds of calculi is widely different. Instead of being lighter than water, the mellitic calculus is considerably heavier, being in the proportion of 1061, to water as 1000. Inspissated Bile Calculus—This is one of the rarer kinds of calculus; it is, in fact, much less frequently met with than either of 1 Dr. Thomas Thomson, in Cyclop, of Pr. Med. Art. Calculus.