CONGELATION. 818 of reaction an elevation of temperature is ab- solutely necessary; and it may be induced whe- ther the heat is applied generally to the body or more immediately to the frost-bitten parts. There is no fact in practical medicine better ascertained than that the degree of inflamma- tory reaction which follows the state of torpor in a part that has been exposed to cold, de- pends altogether, or, at least, chiefly, upon the subsequent application of heat. All observers agree in proclaiming the extreme danger in all such accidents of a rapid transition from cold to heat. If a person has had any part of his body congealed or benumbed, and there- upon goes immediately into a warm room, or exposes himself to the heat of an open fire, it is quite certain that the frost-bitten part will either be at once struck with mortification, or will be affected with inflammation and all its train of consequences. Another person again, exposed to a like degree of cold with the for- mer, will escape all bad consequences, merely by avoiding external heat, keeping himself in a cold apartment, and having the congealed parts rubbed with snow, or immersed in iced water, till their sensibility and flexibility are restored. Such observations naturally lead to the conclusion, that the affections which we name frost-bites are less the effect of the action of cold than of the subsequent action of heat. Larrey expressly states it as his opinion, that cold is to be considered as merely the pre-disposing cause of such affections, and that the exciting cause is heat suddenly applied to parts in a state of torporfrom cold. We consi- der this reasoning perfectly correct, in so far as the great majority of frost-bites are concerned; but we shall hereafter point out certain cases to which it does not apply, as the reaction in the cases to which we allude succeeds imme- diately to the application of cold without any intervening torpor or subsequent application of heat. Of the prominent symptoms which mark the secondary stage of congelation, we cannot give a more correct general idea than by in- serting here the following history of a case narrated by Mr. Edw'ards, surgeon to the Hecla during Captain Parry’s first voyage to discover a north-west passage from the Atlan- tic to the Pacific ocean :— “ A servant of Captain Sabine, in endea- vouring to extinguish a fire which had acci- dentally broken out, exposed his hands in the first instance to the operation of considerable heat; he afterwards remained in the open air in much distress of mind at having been in some measure the involuntary cause of the accident, and was almost unconscious of the effects of a temperature of 43° to 44° below zero upon his naked hands. He was at length noticed in this situation, and sent on board. His hands presented a strange appearance; they were perfectly hard, inflexible, colourless, possessing a degree of translucency, exhibiting more the external characters of pieces of sculptured marble than those of animated mat- ter. Thev were immediately plunged in the 10 cold bath, where they continued upwards of two hours before their flexibility was com- pletely recovered ; the abstraction of heat had been so great that the water in contact with the fingers congealed upon them, even half an hour after they had been immersed. During the cold application a considerable degree of reaction took place, attended by acute pain, from which the patient became so faint and exhausted as to necessitate his being conveyed to bed. In less than three hours very active inflammation had supervened, ex- tending high up the arm, and soon afterwards each hand, from the wrist downward, was en- closed in a bladder, containing upwards of a pint of a viscid serous fluid. There were, however, three of the fingers of one hand and two of the other in which the vesication did not form ; they continued cold and perfectly insensible, and whilst arterial action was powerful as far as the first joints of these fin- gers, the vessels of their extremities were in a perfect state of collapsion. During the em- ployment of antiphlogistic remedies to reduce the inflammatory symptoms, various stimuli ■were used ineffectually to restore animation to the fingers; when the inflammation began to subside a separation took place between the dead and the living parts, and eventually the amputation of them became necessary.” This case is not only important as exhibiting a faithful picture of the principal phenomena which mark the second stage of congelation, but likeM-ise as affording an example of the resuscitation and ultimate recovery of parts of the human body which had been completely frozen, for that the greater part of both hands, and more especially the fingers, were actually frozen, does not appear to us to admit of doubt. The case is still farther remarkable as showing that very violent reaction may en- sue, notwithstanding the most judicious treat- ment of the congealed part, in the primary stage, and as constituting therefore an excep- tion to the principles which have been stated above, to apply to the great majority of cases of congelation, in which an immunity from subsequent bad consequences is the fruit of judicious treatment ot the congealed parts, and the degree in which secondary symptoms occur is in proportion to the mismanagement in exposing them to heat. The peculiarity here indicated we shall afterwards endeavour to show to be owing to the sudden action of intense cold. It M’ill be remarked that the symptoms de- scribed above, as characterizing the secondary stage of congelation, present a striking analogy with the phenomena of burns. In both wre observe inflammation, effusion, vesication, ul- ceration, gangrene, and mortification. These symptoms, hoM'ever, in cases of burn, occur immediately after the application of the excit- ing cause without any intervening period of vascular inactivity. In cases of congelation on the other hand, there is almost invariably a stage of torpor of greater or less duration, which precedes the symptoms of increased