CICATRIX. puration and slowness of the reparative pro- cess indicate its low degree of vitality and organization when subjected to external injury. The cicatrix in proportion as it acquires strength and solidity assumes a white appear- ance, owing to the scanty supply of blood- vessels. It is destitute of the natural sensi- bility of the skin, no sentient nerves having ever yet been traced into its substance. It does not possess sebaceous glands, exhalents, or absorbents, and is incapable of furnishing hairs, or generating the villi which belong to the original cutis. The rete mucosum is slowly, if ever reproduced, hence the cicatrices of ne- groes remain for a long time white or yellow, and indeed never acquire exactly the same tint as the neighbouring surface, being either yel- lowish brown or intensely black. Not so the epidermis on the cicatrix, for its presence can be demonstrated during life by the application of a blister, and after death by maceration in water. The cellular texture underneath a cicatrix is dense and compact. Whatever tends to increase the vascular appearance of the skin, or to produce a local plethora in the capillary net-work, renders scars more palpable from contrast. Thus when the countenance is flushed by the effect of passion, violent exercise, or excitement, scars are readily distinguished, from their ex- treme whiteness, and from their relatively de- pressed condition beneath the level of the skin. This depression of the cicatrix, observes M. Breschet', is to be ascribed to the circum- stance of its structure being essentially fibrous, or of a nature analogous to the white fibre of tendons and aponeuroses. This texture is more dense and compact in recent than in old cicatrices. Accordingly, the depression pro- gressively diminishes with time. The more abundant and lax the subjacent cellular texture, the less will the cicatrix be depressed, as is proved by the result of surgical operations on the lips or scrotum. This pitting applies par- ticularly to cicatrices which follow accidental breaches of surface, and which unite, as it is commonly expressed, by first intention. Whereas the cicatrices of wounds which have healed by suppuration, and of which the causes and forms may vary exceedingly, do not al- ways display this appearance, but, on the contrary, present an elevated instead of a hollow surface. Cicatrices are for the most part indelible. Their external appearance and form ought to be carefullystudied by the surgical pathologist, as he may be thereby enabled to discover dis- eases with which the subject has been previ- ously affected. Every practitioner familiar with wounds can at once distinguish the linear scar of an incised wound, from the uneven and tuberous scar of a contused wound, or the minute, round, puckered scar of a punctured wound, from the somewhat similar though more irregular and profound scar of a gunshot wound. The profession is indebted to Dr. Rambcrg, for an elaborate description of the 1 Dietionnairc <Ie Medccinc, Article “Cicatrice.” cicatrices which follow specific ulcers of dif- ferent kinds1. The cicatrix from a scrofulous ulcer is un- even, plicated, furrowed, radiated, presenting several deep pits; it is usually white, smooth, arid glistening, and frequently bounded by a hard uneven margin : that from a scorbutic ulcer is of a deep bluish-red hue, soft, elevat- ed, sensitive, and easily ruptured, giving way at insulated points, and forming minute ul- cers which rapidly enlarge ; after a lapse of years it becomes more flattened, has a brown- ish-red cast passing to green at the centre, while the circumference is of a pale brown ; it appears puckered, thin, and easily dis- placed, seeming loosened as it were from its basis : that from an arthritic ulcer, generally met with'in the proximity of the joints, espe- cially of the lower extremities, has usually a large but irregular and jagged surface, un- even and full of numerous depressions and elevations, of a dusky red passing into a blue or ash colour ; its confines are dark brown, varicose, liable to attacks of erysipelatous inflammation, synchronous or alternating w'ith fits of gout: that from an herpetic ulcer is very diffuse, having an irregular devious compass, but lying very superficial; it has a dirty red- dish-brown aspect passing into gray or blue, though portions of the centre retain the colour of the original integument; it is quite even, blending imperceptibly with the adjoin- ing skin, which together with the cicatrix is generally covered with scales and crusts : that from a syphilitic sore varies according as the ulceration has occupied glandular, cufaneous, or mucous structures ; the glandular cicatrices are uneven, puffy-looking, sunk in, hard, firm and of a reddish brown or coppery hue ; the scars upon the skin are limited in size, more or less round, accurately defined, somewhat deep, at first of a brownish-red colour which gets gradually paler, leaving behind a dull brownish stain ; those on mucous surfaces re- semble the last, except in colour, which is more of a blueish-red. The cicatrix of an ulcer of the intestines always appears depressed, unless the other tunics besides the mucous are involved. It is also smooth, soft, and pliant, and has no disposition to contract, so that it is of the same extent as the ulcer that preceded it. In cases of severe dysentery, however, the cicatrix is white and puckered, and very similar to one which would remain after a similar ulceration on the surface of the body. In a few rare in- stances after the cure of psoas abscess, the cavity remains in the state of a thickened and contracted cyst, holding a serous fluid or containing air. The interior surface of all such cavities nearly resembles the lining of sinuses?. Powerful chemical agents, as the various caustics and escharotics, which not only effect a separation of organic parts, but at the same time destroy their texture, produce large un- 1 Rust’s Handbuch der Chirurgie, Bd. v. p. 19. 2 Macartney on Inflammation, p. 65.