AMAUROSIS. 104 disease, whilst the strabismus and partial para- lysis of face, created strong suspicions of some organic cerebral disease. I considered that there might be some partial serous effusion or softening about the brain, to account for the last mentioned symptoms, and yet the case be one of asthenic kind, for I have no doubt that organic changes can and do take place, and often with frightful rapidity, when the general power is much below par. Under this con- viction I prescribed much as in the last-men- tioned case, and was deceived by some degree of improvement., for she became easier and had more animation about her. After a short time, however, she again began to decline, and in a few weeks died with more evident symp- toms of serious cerebral disease. On post mortem examination a large abscess was found in the left hemisphere of the cerebrum extend- ing into the anterior and middle lobes. I be- lieve that the suppuration had commenced before I saw- her, and that medical or surgical skill could have availed little, even with cor- rect diagnosis. This, however, does not lessen the interest of the case, which presented a train of symptoms extremely complex, and which could very rarely be observed again. The patient was not in a state to give me any detailed account of her early symptoms, and the statement received from her medical at- tendant in the country was little more than a history of the treatment that, he had adopted. My friend Mr. Walker, of St. George’s Hospital, requested me to see a lady about twenty-eight years of age, who was the sub- ject of amaurosis complete in the left, and nearly so in the right eye. The pupils were of different sizes, the left rather the largest, but not much dilated ; the motions of the irides were very sluggish, and there existed a very trifling degree of strabismus. She was pallid, with cold extremities, and complained of great mental and bodily depression ; she was most easy when allowed to be perfectly quiet and reclining, but not perfectly recum- bent ; her pulse was feeble, and compressible, but not rapid. All these symptoms had come on shortly after miscarriage attended with flooding, as she said, to a frightful extent. So far the case had the marked characters of the asthenic form ; but the condition of the pulse, which I thought to be laboured, and the exist- ence of slight strabismus, made me hesitate and inquire further, when I discovered that she was very uneasy when perfectly reclined, and whilst in such position that she suffered much from severe cramps in the limbs. I had then no longer a doubt of the nature of the case, and immediately directed her to be cup- ped behind the mastoid process, and began the exhibition of mercury, enjoined quiet, and a simple light diet. The mercurial treatment was carried to an extent to affect the mouth, but not severely; her recovery was perfect in about six weeks. Had I hastily formed my diagnosis from the prominent features of the case, and taken as a fact the important statement about the flood- ing, I should have treated the patient as suf- fering from asthenic disease, and probably have induced a fatal termination. I have seen many other cases in which a superficial view and examination might have led to most serious error. CONGENITAL AMAUROSIS. Many instances of congenital blindness are connected with mal-formation of the organ,— they are evident and irremediable. In some cases the eyes are well formed, and even the functions of the iris perfect, but no perception of light. In others, with a well-formed organ, there is a very imperfect function ; the distinction of light from darkness being all the patient is conscious of, and even this is lost as the person advances to puberty. It is very difficult in the first few weeks, and sometimes for months, to tell decidedly whether a child be amaurotic or not, when the eyes are well formed ; but all doubt is soon cleared up when the period arrives at which a child usually begins to take notice of sur- rounding objects, for the aspect becomes vacant and unmeaning, instead of animated and intelligent. When congenital amaurosis is imperfect, and the child discerns light, and perhaps would be capable of seeing large objects, a re- markable involuntary motion of the globes is acquired, and is ever after retained, although complete loss of sight ensues : generally it is a rolling of the eye-ball, sometimes a kind of oscillation ; it is, I believe, acquired by the constant and eager search after light. I believe that all the congenital amaurotic affections depend upon deficient development in some part' of the nervous apparatus of vision, and that they are consequently beyond the reach of our science or art ; they are oc- casionally confounded with cases of amaurosis from cerebral mischief, which are frequent in children, and often admit of relief as I have described. I shall conclude with some brief observa- tions upon the divisions and subdivisions of the subject, upon the pathology of the disease, and upon its treatment. The division that I have adopted has been the result of very extensive observation and careful consideration, in which it has been my constant endeavour to elicit practical good, and I trust that I have exposed the general and principal symptoms appertaining to each form of the disease, with sufficient clearness, to render the majority intelligible to the well- informed practitioner. Perhaps some varieties of the disease would have been rendered more distinct by being illustrated by cases, but I have purposely avoided the introduction of more cases than I considered essential to perfect explanation. It must be understood that I have confined myself to the description of those forms of amaurosis most generally met with, and have