ANKLE. 300 ligaments thickened, and their pliability greatly diminished'. M. Cruveilhier, who places nearly the whole of the rotatory mo- tion of the foot in the articulation of the cu- boid and scaphoid bones, with the calcis and astragalus, has published the most extraordi- nary views of these sprains. At page 490, vol. i. of his work on anatomy, he states, “ that sprains which are produced by violent and sudden motions of the foot, either inwards or outwards, occur in the above named quad- ruple articulation, and not in the tibio-tarsal- joint.” This exclusive motion is as incon- sistent with experience as it is with reason. We are far from rejecting the possibility of sprains existing in that joint, and believe this accident may occur wherever there is motion, because it is frequently caused by violent efforts or exaggerated movements, as well as false steps. Although we have no facts to sustain our opinion, we are inclined to believe that sprains sometimes occur between the os calcis and astragalus, where so much motion is constantly taking place. We cannot leave this subject without exhorting surgeons never to allow any opportunity to escape of minutely examining the nature and seat of this dis- order, and of carefully recording the result of their observations. Dislocation of the ankle is a subject of too vast importance to be treated of in this paper ; instead, therefore, of following our predecessors, (the American Cyclopae- dia of Practical Surgery, and Dr. Todd’s Cyclopaedia of Anatomy, where, under “ Ankle,” all the dislocations of that joint are explained,) we shall merely speak of certain parts of this subject, referring for the rest to the article “ Luxation.” Celsus admitted four sorts of dislocations, “ talus in omnes partes prolabitur,” forwards, backwards, in- wards, and outwards ; most English writers, from Wiseman down to the present time, have followed his classification. Dr. John Aitkin, in his “ Essays on Fractures and Luxations,” published in 1789, says, “that a backward and forward luxation takes place in the ankle-joint,” but never even mentions the lateral dislocations, which are the most common ; while, on the other hand, the best authors generally admit the possibility of the backward dislocation. Notwithstanding the perfect construction of the ankle-joint, the numerous ligaments which bind the various bones together, the strong tendons, their sheaths, and their dif- ferent layers of fasciae which greatly con- tribute to the solidity of the ankle, still vio- lent motions set all these wise precautions of nature at defiance, and produce the most painful and formidable accidents. Disloca- tions of the ankle are frequently the cause of simultaneous fractures of the tibia or fi- bula. Some confusion exists regarding the nomenclature of these dislocations ; they are sometimes called luxations of the ankle, luxa- 1 Lectures on the Diseases of the Bones, 1820, p. 297. tions of the leg, and luxations of the foot. Foreign writers invariably prefer using the expression, “ Dislocation of the foot,” there- fore care must be taken not to confound these cases, which always correspond to the opposite ones in our nomenclature ; for instance, dis- location of the foot forwards would be our luxation of the leg backwards, &c. &c. If we take the astragalus as our guide, we find that this bone can be displaced under very dif- ferent conditions:—1. It may be separated from the tibia and fibula, and thus afford one example of luxation of the foot or leg. 2. It may maintain its natural position in the cavity of the tibia and fibula, and be separated from its lower articulation with the os calcis, and thus present another form of dislocation of the foot. 3. It may break through all its bands of union, and, as it were, shoot com- pletely out of its place ; and, lastly, it may be partially displaced. This hist variety is not familiar to many surgeons, and has seldom been noticed by authors. That admirable writer, Jean Louis Petit, is among the first who have spoken of it. M. Roux has kindly permitted me to make use of a manuscript memoir upon this subject, in which he relates the history of four cases of imperfect disloca- tion of the astragalus. “ In all these cases,” says M. Roux, “ I found the small head of the astragalus dislocated forwards and outwards upon the cuboid bone ; the astragalus main- tained its position with regard to the tibia and fibula, these bones were not fractured in three of the patients ; in fact, the palpable displace- ment here is caused by the small head of the astragalus leaving the cavity of the scaphoid bone.” It might, as this skilful surgeon sug- gests, be called the most simple form of dis- location. The first case that came under M. Roux’s observation was that of a young female, who was admitted into La Charite. Several days after the accident, there was a tumour situated above the cuboid bone, which, by pressing against the skin, had already caused an incipient state of ulceration ; the foot was much inflamed, and the great pain which the slightest motion of the limb gave rise to, prevented an attempt at reduction being made. Suppuration around the bone followed, the cartilage which covers the head of the astragalus came away, and the patient recovered : the limb, however, was still very painful aitd of little use. Some months after this accident, the patient applied to Dupuy- tren—he at once proposed an operation, which he found most difficult and laborious; he removed the whole of the astragalus. The result was fatal. The second case was that of a middle-aged lady, who, falling down stairs, dislocated the small head of the astragalus, which was easily felt above the cuboid bone. The accident had but just occurred when M. Roux saw her : he applied extension to the foot, and, pressing the head of the astragalus towards its natural situation, “reduced the dis- location with comparative ease.” The third observation is that of an Englishman, who, in 11