ENCANTHIS. J19 surface, and divided into small masses by irre- gular fissures, somewhat like what is popularly called “ a seedy wart its structure is con- nected, more or less intimately, with that of surrounding parts—the semilunar membrane and the neighbouring portions of the con- ! junctiva. This variety of encanthis has, un- der my own observation, attained a con- siderable size, although it has invariably yielded to treatment, without leading to any injurious effect, except a slight watering of the eye, and a little redness at the inner canthus. In all the cases I have seen, the disease has progressed slowly and gradually, and has taken place in persons who have been subject to chronic ophthalmia, or been engaged in employments exposing their eyes to dust or some source of irritation. In two instances the disease followed local injury. i Treatment.—The treatment of this variety of encanthis is essentially the same as that I have already suggested. In the first instance, soothing lotions should be employed, after- wards astringent and stimulating collyria, or the part may be touched with the solid nitrate of silver1 ; and lastly, recourse must be had to extirpation, provided (which is a very rare occurrence) the part has acquired consider- able size, and is still increasing. Scirrhous enlargement of the lachrymal caruncle. Encanthis scirrhosa. The lachrymal caruncle is sometimes the scat of scirrhous enlargement, and I proceed to furnish a description of the disease as it has been presented to my notice on a few oc- casions during the last fifteen years. At first the part is slightly enlarged and rather pain- ful, the pain having the same lancinating cha- racter as occurs when scirrhus exists in other situations; the eye waters, and the conjunctiva is slightly inflamed. The caruncle itself is only a little increased in size ; it is of a dark red colour, and its surface is granular and un- even. In the progress of the disease, the sur- face of the caruncle becomes puckered, vari- cose vessels ramify upon it, or around its base, other parts become involved, ulceration takes place, and the disease may, by exten- sion, lead to the loss of life. It has been stated that the disease in ques- tion is not genuine scirrhus ; that it has not the anatomical characters of schirrus as it 1 In a few instances, where milder means have failed, I have touched the enlarged caruncle with the solid nitrate of silver, and with the effect of causing its diminution without leading to any injurious effect whatever. I have but lately adopted this practice, having been deterred from using the remedy by the representations of celebrated writers, who have stated that by means of strong and irritating applications, the simple enlargement of the caruncle lias been rendered malignant. Although my experience, in relation to the remedy under consideration, has not, as yet, been considerable, I cannot but recommend it to the notice of surgeons; and have no hesitation in saying, that its application has, in two cases in my own practice, pre- vented the necessity of excision. exists in other parts, and that it never arises except as the result of local injury, or in con- sequence of the injudicious use of stimulating and irritating substances to the eye or to the caruncle, as remedies for its inflanimation. My experience compels me to dissent from these statements. Treatment.—The treatment would consist in the use of poppy and various narcotic, fomentations; the application of leeches around the inner canthus, and the adoption of such constitutional treatment as the par- ticular circumstances of the case may indicate. The important part of the treatment, how- ever, consists in the extirpation of the dis- eased part ; in no fc-rm of encanthis is this more necessary, and the only direction I am anxious to give is, that such extirpation should be so accomplished, as to include every por- tion of the caruncle and so much of surround- ing parts as may be necessary, such necessity being determined, by the extent to which disease may have advanced when it first comes under notice. Early and thorough extirpation appear to me absolutely requisite, in all cases of scirrhous encanthis, in order to give as perfect exemption from recurrence of disease, as the nature of the circumstances permit. Some writers on diseases of the eye, speak of malignant encanthis (encanthis maligna) as though it were a malady of somewhat fre- quent occurrence. With the exception of a few cases of scirrhous enlargement of the lachrymal caruncle, I have seen no forms of primary1 encanthis which have not been readily manageable by the slight measures previously explained, or by total or partial extirpation in the event of their failure. In a few instances melanotic and medullary tumours have formed upon the semilunar membrane, and occasionally such tumours have been con- nected with the lachrymal caruncle, but these occurrences are exceedingly unfrequent. Case.—Melanotic tumour connected with the semilunar membrane.—Mrs. Banister, set. 49. There is a filmy prolongation of a melanotic character of the semilunar membrane ; and, at the temporal side of the lachrymal carun- cle, there is a dark coloured tumour as large as a pea. It appears, (though it is much darker) like a portion of iris recently pro- lapsed through an opening in the cornea. This tumour has existed for several years, but has lately increased very rapidly in con- sequence of being accidentally scratched, and was, at the patient’s request, removed. Two years after the removal of the tumour, two minute black spots existed in the texture of the conjunctiva near the lachrymal caruncle, in a situation corresponding to the extremities of the semilunar membrane. Although these 1 In using this term, I refer to those states of the disease which originate in the caruncle or semilunar membrane, in opposition to those other cases in which the affection may result from an extension of morbid action from neighbouring parts.