CATHETERISM. 744 urging on the instrument, holding the bee steadily to the closed canal, and asking him some question relating to his illness. While he is making his reply the contraction will cease and the catheter'is in the bladder often before he has done speaking. When these means are not attended with success, the ca- theter may be withdrawn, and its bee and sides greased with an ointment prepared with the extract of belladonna ; the perineum may be rubbed with the ointment also, or an anodyne injection thrown into the rectum. But it must be remembered that rudeness and force are totally out of the question; patience and gentleness are our best allies in such cases. The tepid bath, as relieving the spasm of the muscles and the congestion at the same time, prolonged for an hour and a half or two hours, will often prove a valuable auxiliary. In these cases we should also be mindful of the advan- tage to be obtained by the change of form, or material of the instrument. If the mucous membrane should be in a highly congested or inflamed state, local or general bleeding will be necessary, with fomentations, bathing, &c. The means which we would recommend against the capping of the bee of the sound in this portion of the canal have been already detailed ; they may be comprised in two words : proper direction and sufficient bulk of the catheter. If the bee should become capped by the urethral membrane, or stopped at the anterior edge of the prostate, it should be withdrawn a little vvay till its point is freed, and then carried onwards in a higher plane, keeping by the upper surface of the canal. When the prostate gland is much enlarged, and the neck of the bladder is considerably elevated, it is recommended to use a catheter, the curve of which is so deep as to turn closer to the base of the triangular ligament, and follow more exactly the upper surface of the urethra ; the same manoeuvre may be effected with a catheter of the ordinary curve if the handle be brought low between the thighs, when its bee has cleared the triangular liga- ment. When the catheter is arrested in the mus- cular or prostatic portions of the urethra, some surgeons place great reliance on the guidance obtained by a finger introduced into the anus. In order properly to appreciate this manoeuvre, we must consider what the effect will be on the neck of the bladder and prostate of distending or uplifting the extre- mity of the gut. If the bee of the catheter be still at some distance from the neck of the bladder, the extremity of the finger in the anus will have reached beyond it, and as it uplifts the gland and the portion of the canal between it and the bee of the instrument, the difficulty, or rather the obstacle, will be thus increased ; but if the bee of the instrument be in the prostatic portion, and stopped by the transverse ridge of the gland, the point of the finger will not, or rather need not, reach it, but will be applied against some point of the curve, it may then be used as a fulerum, to enable the bee to mount over the trans- verse ridge ; but this can only be safelydone by withdrawing the bee from the point at which it is arrested to the extent of about a line, beforethe catheter is allowed to make any leverage from the point of the finger. If any advantage is to be safely obtained from the introduction of the finger into the anus, it must be by keeping the finger after having fully explored the position of the bee of the cat heter perfectly still, and applied against its curve at some distance from its point ; in this way oidy can it render any service in clearing the catheter, at the anterior edge of the pro- state,—at the base of the verumontanum,—and at the ridge of the transverse portion of the gland. When a straight instrument is em- ployed, we should carefully avoid this man- oeuvre altogether, as it would counteract what wre had in view, namely the effacement of the curvature of the canal. The rules described for the guidance of an instrument through the post-pubic portion of the male urethra will be equally applicable to its introduction in the female, with some slight difference in respect of facility in favour of the latter on account of the absence of the prostate gland. We should not omit to ob- serve that the concavity of the canal, in both sexes corresponding to its superior surface, is now and then reversed in the female; this happens, even though she be not pregnant, when the external orifice is drawn back into the vagina. When in these circumstances a necessity arises of using the catheter, the acci- dental curvature must be corrected by passing the finger into the vagina and feeling for the orifice of the urethra, or the small tubercle which sometimes surmounts it, and pressing downwards and outwards; the instrument may be then introduced, and the operation performed in the usual manner. I come to the description of a new form of catheter, the advantages of which, as adapted to the depressions and eminences of the ure- thra, will be obvious to any person who has previously taken the trouble of making him- self acquainted with the anatomical configu- ration of the canal, upon which the instrument itself is closely modelled. I have already said, that if the direction of the urethra was straight, and its diameter equal throughout its entire length, that our rules for introducing instruments into the bladder might be expressed in a single sen- tence, viz. to take an instrument suited to the calibre of the canal, and direct it in a straight line, from its external to its internal orifice. But the canal of the urethra is not straight, neither is its diameter equal. The problem to be solved, therefore, presents itself thus :—the canal of the urethra being curved, and diameter being normally unequal in consequence of depressions and elevations of its under surface and circular narrowings— which is the best form of instrument to be employed with a view to the effecting an