211 ANEURISM. parietes of the artery firmer at that point. It must, however, be very different when the coats of an artery which are in a diseased state give way, for then the restorative powers of nature are not sufficient to strengthen the lacerated coats, and the force of the blood’s circulation becomes sufficient to dis- tend the cellular coat and to form an aneuris- mal pouch. We would not, however, be un- derstood to offer this as a perfect explanation of the etiology of aneurisms in general. Other influences, doubtless, may have a share in their development, and we by no means contest the point; on the contrary, we admit that there is still a good deal of obscurity in the history both of the predisposing and proxi- mate causes of this affection. All we mean to say is, that the impossibility of producing aneurism by experiment on healthy arteries, does not invalidate the influence in its produc- tion of those organic alterations of the arterial tunics. Aneurisms are observed to form most fre- quently in certain arteries, and in particular parts of them. The arterial trunks of the first magnitude become aneurismal much more fre- quently than those of inferior calibre, and hence internal are much more frequent than external aneurisms. Aneurisms are most fre- quently formed at the curvature of these arte- ries, and where they divide into branches. The aorta, particularly at its arch, is more fre- quently affected with aneurism than any of its branches ; and this observation accords with the theory, that the lateral impulsion of the blood concurs in the production of aneurism when the structure of the artery has under- gone a change : the curves formed by the arteries being precisely the points where this impulsion is greatest, and where aneurism occurs most commonly. The innominata, subclavian, carotid, axillary, iliac, and fe- moral arteries, are subject to aneurism next in frequency, whilst the temporal and occi- pital arteries, those of the leg, foot, and fore- arm, and the arteries within the cranium, are rarely found to be aneurismal. The pecu- liarity in the structure of the arteries within the brain is one reason why a destruction of their coats is much more frequently followed by an extravasation of blood than by the for- mation of an aneurism. It sometimes happens that an aneurism is formed at the point where a branch is sent off from the arterial trunk. When this takes place, the branch, if they should be but one, is sooner or later detached from the parent trunk by the progress of the tumour, which is as it were interposed be- tween them. The mechanism of this trans- portation is thus explained by Berard (Ar- chives Gen. de Med., July 1830 :) the inter- nal and middle tunics having yielded around the origin of the vessel, it is now connected with the trunk through the cellular tunic only, and in proportion as the sac becomes distended, the branch becomes the more dis- tant from the artery which gave it origin. 1 he arterial branches which are thus de- tached, are usually found to be obliterated at their point of communication with the sac, having undergone adhesion by effusion of plastic lymph from the internal surface of the cellular tunic, or being plugged with coagu- lum, which has formed in consequence of the languid state of the circulation in those branches; but this occlusion of the vessel seldom extends beyond the next collateral, so that the circulation, so far from being cut off by the adhesion or plugging of the trans- ported orifice, is on the contrary rendered more vigorous by the dilatation which is thus produced in the anastomosing branches, while it favours, at the same time, the coagulation of the blood in the aneurismal sac itself. Effects of an Aneurism on the swrounding Structures.—There is a tendency in the living fibre, to whatever class it may belong, to de- generate when condemned to perfect repose. In the case of an increasing aneurismal tu- mour, this cause of degradation is promoted by the pressure which the tumour itself pro- duces on the surrounding parts. But this is not all; organs are displaced, blood-vessels are obliterated, nerves are stretched, muscles are distended and atrophied, and even the bones and cartilages are altered and destroyed. It must be obvious therefore, that when such a variety of structures is successively involved in the progress of an aneurism, that the symp- toms which accompany its development will have relation to the nature and functions of these several tissues : thus when the muscles are compressed, elongated, or disturbed from their natural situation, their movements are impeded, perverted, or abolished ; when the nerves are subjected to the same influences, the most intolerable pain is produced, and continues until they are wasted and dis- organized, and then the pain gives place to numbness, which prevails throughout the whole limb ; when the veins and lymphatics are acted on in the same way, some become obliterated while others are dilated, the limb feels cold, and is more or less cedematous ; even the bones themselves are destroyed by the pressure and pulsation of an aneurismal tumour. This destruction, however, has no affinity to either caries or necrosis ; the bone softens, and is then absorbed irregularly, but it neither suppurates nor dies, and this is a circumstance of some importance as regards the treatment that may be adopted, for if the progress of the tumour can be arrested by the ligature, the condition of the bone will not contra-indicate its application, as it must do, had the bone been affected with caries. This, however, is so far from being the case, that the portion of bone that has been spared is often found to be extremely hard. The cellular tissue disappears altogether, or is so wasted and thinned as to be undistinguishable from the sac of the aneurism itself; and the same may be said of all the other soft tissues, when the tumour is allowed to proceed un- checked, until it has no other covering than the common integument. P 2