FRACTURE. 2(58 formed upon the inner face of the old before its death, and subsequently have been sepa- rated with the living membrane. When we see, in the very lengthened liga- mentous union of a broken patella, an isolated point of bone, are we to infer that it is a new ossification, or an old fragment? If a cica- trization appear to have commenced in the centre of a broad ulcer, do we not regard it as a very doubtful exception to an almost constant course of events ? and shall we not enquire what there is to prove that a penin- sula of skin has not been detached to form it ? The following instance from the work last quoted is another of the kind which demands the most cautious examination, since it is op- posed to the common course of events— unless, indeed, it be only an erroneous view of a common fact. “ Fig. 6, PI. 9, is a section of the fractured humerus of a rabbit, nine days after the injury. As is generally the case in over- lapping fractures (with angular displace- ment), the reparative process is principally Fig. 293. Fig. 293 is a sufficiently faithful drawing of recently reparated fracture of the femur, in the Museum of Guifs Hospital. There has been a double transverse, and. longitudinal fracture. Thefragments arc united by soft spongy bone, and it is very apparent that the new ossification has been formed only where it was wanted, where injured bone was present, and beneath original and i icatrized periosteum. Some parts, as ire'll as the nn dullary cavity, seem to have been but iucomplctcly n pa irciU confined to the concave side of the frag- ments, which is filled up by a fibro-carti- laginiform substance, in the centre of which is seen a distinct osseous nucleus, quite unconnected with the old bone. In some experiments made by Mr. Gulliver, this dis- tinct point of ossification was generally ob- served when there was great displacement of the fragments, appearing to be a provision to facilitate the union between the regular cal- lus, which commences at a distance from the fractured extremities. This central bony matter, therefore, being dependent on the accidental circumstances of the case, might be termed the irregular or accidental callus, to distinguish it from the regular callus, which always commences at a distance from the line of fracture.” The account here given of the situation of the principal mass of cartilaginous matter assists to demonstrate the states which almost every displacement after fractures must lead to. When the boundaries of inflammation exceed the limits of injury a little in all direc- tions, and fragments are thrust almost out of these limits, the latter must of course be far removed from the centre of the repairing products, and, finally, the contraction which follows inflammatory tumefactions leaves the most displaced points still more superficially placed. This statement is not equally applicable to the mass of new bone; for, while with angular displacement the broken ends are inclined from the centre of mischief and its inflamma- tory consequences, the excited ossification, with every kind of fracture, follows the origi- nal bone, depends on its presence, its injury, and its vascular supply ; is kept up by its wants, (weakness and motion, &c.) and de- clines as the increased strength of the union obviates the yielding that excites inflamma- tion. Thus w'e see, at a glance, why the chief ossifications occur exactly, and only, where they are required ; that is, where a part is yielding, or unduly strained ; and hence we know that due consolidation cannot be accomplished, until the parts have for a while experienced their full share of strain and tension. These views are sufficiently illustrated it) the following example of a very common appearance. The author, Mr. Gulliver, justly observed, that the regular callus (bone) commences at a distance from the fractured extremities, i. e. as I have shown, bone, upon the bone beneath the periosteum. The “ irregular or accidental callus,” when I have found it, has been formed in precisely the same way as the most regular ossification, a fragment of the original bone forming the basis, as it were, of crystalli- zation. It is from the results of experiments on rodents and carnivora, animals of the most rapid and active circulations (next to birds); and from the appearances produced by exces- sive inflammation, and continued motion of the broken hone, that the idea has arisen of