BLOOD-LETTING. 491 In Scarlet Fever.—Blood-letting may be resorted to in the early stages, especially when there is a determination of blood to any particular part, as the chest and head. Some- times the inflammation of the throat, the cha- racteristic feature in this disease, is so severe, that much relief is obtained by a local bleed- ing, more or less profuse ; but when any of the vital organs are affected, then venesection is indicated. Here too the notion prevails, that in this dis- ease patients cannot endure a depletion, or that it is unnecessary and indeed improper for their treatment. Scarlet fever, it is true, in many cases passes through a very mild course, with scarcely a symptom requiring any particular treatment; nay, in some cases the pulse, from the very commencement of the disease, is fee- ble, and the powers of life sink rapidly. But we ought also to be aware, that cases do occur where severe inflammatory symptoms come on, and of that type wherein blood-letting is highly to be recommended. In Small-pox.—The benefit of blood-letting, when the febrile symptoms are severe, or when inflammation affects any particular organ, is beyond doubt. An intelligent army-surgeon made it a general rule, from which he had experienced the greatest benefit, always to bleed soldiers on the commencement of the fever preceding the eruption. In Erysipelas,—much benefit is derived from the profuse haemorrhage which follows incisions made into the inflamed integuments. Such a practice will, however, I am persuaded, be seldom found necessary, if blood-letting be had recourse to in the early stage of that disease. From a supposed typhoid character of erysipelas, it was the general practice, and is still with some, never to deplete or pursue an antiphlogistic plan of treatment in this disease ; and I well remember visiting a patient who was suffering from a very severe attack in the face, and finding at her bedside a large tumbler of wine and water, and that she was taking as much bark as she could receive. By bleeding her freely, and repeat- ing the operation three successive times at short intervals, along with purging and anti- monial medicine, she rapidly recovered ; and the medical attendant who first saw her, ex- pressed his surprise at the treatment. I had employed, remarking, that during a long at- tendance at a public hospital, he had never seen blood-letting employed in erysipelas, and that nearly all the cases he had seen of that disease affecting the face and head had termi- nated fatally. In erysipelas there is usually a peculiar feeling in the pulse, which is apt to deter the practitioner from employing blood-letting; the pulse is small, but more or less incom- pressible, and whilst the blood is flowing from the vein, it acquires more and more volume, and often a very considerable quantity is ab- stracted before a fainting state supervenes. Whenever the abstraction of blood is ne- cessary in the treatment of erysipelas, general is to be preferred to local blood-letting ; and chiefly for this reason, that the leech-bites often act in such states of the system only as additional local exciting causes, and therefore the local irritation caused by them ought to be avoided, which can be done by adopting venesection. Besides, we seldom see erysi- pelas so severe as to require blood-letting, without more or less disturbance of the whole system, and this is a further reason for pre- ferring general to local depletion in the treat- ment of this disease. In Acute Inflammation.—Whenever there is any organ under the influence of inflamma- tion, and febrile excitement is also present, the abstraction of blood should be unhesitatingly employed. The blood should be taken from the arm whilst the patient is in the recumbent position, until syncope is produced, and the operation repeated whenever the pulse rises, and until the febrile symptoms are subdued. Local determination to any particular organ may afterwards be combated by local depletion. It is always of importance, in the treatment of inflammation, that the general should pre- cede the local bleeding. In Chronic Inflammation.—When inflamma- tion assumes a chronic, or subacute form, the abstraction of blood is an equally useful re- medy as when inflammation is in its acute stage : the above terms have each been em- ployed to denote the state of an inflamed part wherein there is no longer any febrile excite- ment, no disturbance in the action of the heart, but where there is a change merely in the condition of the capillary system. Local is usually preferable to general blood- letting, to subdue inflammation in this stage. In cases of chronic inflammations, I have been in the habit of recommending the fre- quent repetition of small bleedings in place of one or more large depletions. A person afflicted with some chronic inflammation, and whose strength would be impaired by any thing like a severe depletion, will often gain vigour and health whilst two or three leeches are daily applied to the diseased part b Ophthalmia also presents itself in numerous 1 Case.—A girl of feeble constitution had a gland in the neck enlarge suddenly. It was tender to the touch, but she had no febrile symptoms. I advised her to apply leeches daily, beginning with four and diminishing the number as the swelling abated, which treatment, along w'ith fomentations and poultices, greatly relieved her, and the swelling gradually di- minished. But the leeches were employed no less than seventeen times on this as well as on another enlarged gland before all tenderness went off; and much surprise was expressed, that at the termination of this treatment her general health and strength had improved, and she had regained flesh. Case.—A girl about six years of age had a scro- fulous affection of the second joint of the thumb. A considerable enlargement having taken place of the soft parts, with slight discoloration and tender- ness, two leeches were daily applied for one week, one leech every day during the subsequent week, and one every second or third day afterwards, until the swelling completely vanished; and after this treat- ment her general health was greatly improved.