ABSCESS. 3G patient, although the prognosis is neverthe- less to be deduced chiefly from the nature and extent of the primitive affection. One of the most favourable symptoms that can occur in these cases is the resorption of the pus ; when this occurs, as it rarely does, the prognosis becomes altogether favourable, for it coincides with a favourable change in the primitive affec- tion which ceases to make progress, and ulti- mately disappears. When on the other hand the purulent focus is vast, its walls are thickened, its surface chronically inflamed, and its tracks fistulous, the complications become truly for- midable, the efforts of art are unavailing, and the patient’s doom is all but inevitable. The rapidity with which a fatal termination arrives depends on various circumstances ; if the re- cent openings of the abcess become large and fistulous, and the suppuration abundant; if the caries be extensive, and the abscess spa- cious and direct in its course outwards, the digestion is soon disturbed, fever is kindled up, nocturnal sweats set in, the body wastes, a colliquative diarrhoea takes place, which can- not be moderated, and the patient expires in the last degree of exhaustion. The extent or volume of an abscess, in every case, has more or less influence on the result which may arise from it. In an abscess of large volume, the danger will be less in pro- portion to the mobility of its walls; or, in other words, of their power of constantly ac- commodating themselves to the quantity or bulk of the purulent matter : but on the other hand if the sides of the abscess be fixed by reason of their connexion with immoveable parts, the access of air into the body of the tumour upon the partial expulsion of the pus is facilitated, a circumstance which acts unfa- vourably as to the degree of inflammation which follows, the prolongation of the suppu- ration, and the ultimate cicatrization of the cavity. It has been already noticed that in the abscess of slow formation, or cold abscess as it is called, the walls are comparatively thicker and more distinctly organized than in the hot and rapidly formed abscess; this difference of condition has a marked influence on the progress of the affection. The vi- vacity of the inflammation in the latter case is, so to speak, extinguished upon the formation of the pus, which being treated as a foreign body and removed by art, leaves the parts weli disposed to heal, which they accordingly do very rapidly : in the former the walls are thickened, and even in some instances have become solid and fibrous ; while in this state they will not adhere, and cannot do so until such time as a new action shall so change their texture as to fit them for cicatrization. Superficial collections are less dangerous than those that are deep-seated. Among the latter, however, there are many which have the same advantages in this respect as those which point to the surface, such as abscesses of the throat, pharynx, tonsils, &c.; other abscesses also, although situated in the sub- stance of internal organs, participate in this advantage on account of their proximity or communication with other organs which have a natural outlet to the surface of the body : thus an abscess in the lung may be spontane- ously evacuated through the bronchial tube; and in the liver, kidneys, walls of the bladder, stomach, and intestines, a ready and salutary issue is often afforded by the intestinal canal. But as respects the termination of abscesses, the most favourable, as it has been already stated, is that in which the pus is absorbed, as it dispenses at once with any painful surgical interference, and saves the patient from all the consequences of protracted suppurations. In conclusion, it will be observed that in general the innocuity or danger of purulent collections depends on their volume, situation, progress, &c. But we should not omit to state, that there are instances of abscesses oc- curring in different parts of the body during the course of acute diseases, particularly in severe fevers accompanied with gastrointes- tinal lesions, and in which their appearance has the most marked influence on the progress and termination of those diseases. These abscesses are frequently indicative of, and are a consequence of, a change in the irritation prevailing in important organs ; and when such is the case, their appearance is eminently salutary, except when the abscess is formed in an organ essential to life. Examples of this species of abscess denominated critical, occur under the strong sheath of the parotid gland in gastro-encephalitis, about the angle of the jaw, in the ear, in the groin, in cer- tain mild cases of the plague, in the axilla, &c. These critical abscesses are accompanied with marked remission of the previous symp- toms. On the other hand, when they do not coincide with a transfer or cessation of the ir- ritation from the organs already labouring, they constitute a formidable feature of the case. Treatment of Abscess.—The curative indi- cations of abscess may be, to a certain extent, inferred from what has been already laid down in the preceding part of this article ; the ter- minations, as it has been already stated, are, 1st, The spontaneous absorption of the mat- ter ; 2nd, Its evacuation through ulcerous openings. But it may also happen that the pus may remain stationary in its cavity, ab- stracted as if it were a foreign body, isolated by an accidental cyst from the living actions of the economy ; this, however, is not a termination, but rather an indefinite protraction of the dis- ease, which sooner or later will require the aid of art to effect a cure : in this state, absorption of the matter may be promoted by the appli- cation of a blister to the tumour. When nature is left to her own resources, she relieves the parts from the matter which distresses and impedes their functions by one or other of these modes ; and when art inter- feres, it cannot do otherwise than imitate her. The precise line of conduct which the sur- geon may adopt in any given case, must mainly depend on the judgment he may form with reference to all its circumstances. But his efforts are limited to the excitement of the