FRACTURE. 335 FRACTURE OF THE SUPERIOR MAXILLARY BONE. This bone, from its form and strength, and less prominent situation, is more rarely the seat of fracture than those just spoken of; but examples are of course occasionally pre- sented in military surgery. Such a violence as the kick of a horse may cause this acci- dent, though scarcely ever without the frac- ture of other bones of the face. The injury to the bone itself is generally the least serious consideration. The contusion and laceration are of more importance, and the eye will es- pecially claim the surgeon’s attention. Slight fractures of the upper jaw may occur when the teeth are struck out, or un- happily extracted, (Fig. 31G); and the remark is not unimportant, as it gives occasion for the injunction—to be careful; and if a portion of alveolus be considerably dis- ^art of the inferior jaw removed placed, to be at- extract*nff a molar tooth. tentive, forcibly to press it with the finger back again into its place, and to guard the patient against the danger of necrosis. Rest, mode- rate diet, and freedom from exposures during the first days of the necessary reparative in- flammation, may not be neglected with impu- nity. Whenever there is a fair hope that a displaced tooth may regain its hold, it is to be carefully restored. This is more important, as also more practicable, in the cases of young persons. If a tooth be detached or only loosened, in connexion with fracture, the reparation of the bone must pretty certainly proceed as that of open fracture in other parts. Splinters of the bone itself that are detached or much loosened, or that cannot be replaced with a fair prospect of restoration, are to be removed. It will be right to see that the natural line of the teeth is restored, and that they do not interfere with the proper closure of the mouth. The treatment in most cases will consist of very little more than attention to the general and local measures which are adapted to regulate inflammation and tume- faction. Occasionally it will be required to conduct the reduction and reparation more in the manner which we shall presently describe with reference to the lower jaw. Gentleness and care may save some valuable teeth. It is not necessary to take any step towards the immediate nice adjustment of a large frag- ment, which may still further endanger its vitality ; but after the first activity of inflam- mation has begun to subside, it may be accu- rately replaced with less risk of causing its death. When the parts have been adjusted, the inferior row of teeth forms the best and most available support to the broken portions, and a thin layer of cork or caoutchouc may be placed between the teeth, and of course the lower jaw is to be kept all but closed. It is of some moment to observe that the apposi- tion of the fragments be correct when ossific union is about to commence. FRACTURES OF THE MALAR BONE. These are very uncommon accidents, and are rarely produced without severe lesion of the soft parts. 1 he malar bone may be crushed; or its borders ; and the zygomatic arch in par- ticular may be driven in. Force from above most readily breaks this bone, but its strength to resist horizontal blows is so great, that when it gives way the brain also frequently suffers. The complications, therefore, are to be consi- dered serious. Before the commencement, or after the subsidence of swelling, the dia- gnosis is easy. If there be no material dis- placement, the only treatment consists in con- fining the lower jaw completely, and in regu- lating local or deeper inflammations. The finger in the mouth may be employed to replace fragments. The zygomatic arch formed by the malar bone, and the zygomatic process of the tem- poral bone, is much exposed to injury, and is by no means exempt from fractures, though they are very much less common than those of the nasal bones. Fractures of the malar bones, as of the nasal, take place rather more often, perhaps, than they are presented to the surgeon. I speak from what I have observed on macerated skulls. I have been informed of the zygomatic arch suffering from the blow of a cricket ball, in which case it was found im- possible to restore the depressed portions, and permanent deformity was the result. Should the bone be so far driven inwards as to reach the coronoid process of the lower jaw, this bone would present a force capable of removing it; and it is therefore rather im- probable that the presence of the displaced arch should form any permanent obstacle to the closure of the mouth. It will be right, however, to ascertain at an early period after such an accident, that the lateral and vertical movements of the jaw are unrestrained. Chelius recommends us, when fragments of this part are driven into the temporal muscle, impeding mastication and deglutition, and when the finger in the mouth is unavailing, to consider the propriety of cutting down and elevating. I believe it is principally the rarity of such an injury, which has made most writers disregard this advice. The bony arch is certainly liable to become deeply and per- manently indented ; and it is desirable to be aware of the fact, and to remember that it may be of consequence early to remedy the deformity ; or, at least, that no one should be left to endure through life a serious inconve- nience which is susceptible of so easy a remedy. Occasionally, fractures of the malar bone are unattended with discoverable displace- ment; and in a few cases the bone has rather Fig. 316.