G59 CANCER. The articular cartilage investing the head of a bone thus expanded, was invariably free, in such cases as we have had an opportunity of examining, from cancerous infiltration ; though frequently in contact with the morbid matter deposited in the bones, the cartilage simply undergoes attenuation and elongation from the traction exercised on it by the expanding osseous tissue. We have elsewhere mentioned the opinion of M. Cruveilhier respecting the frequency with which this expansion depends on colloid cancer. We are, however, dis- posed to believe that true colloid is singularly rare in this situation, and that the affection thus designated, and of which numerous speci- mens are described by writers and preserved in museums, is really that recently termed enchondroma by Muller, and chemically cha- racterized by containing a peculiar form of gelatine, known as chondrin. The German author, indeed, (s. 44) dwells upon osseous expansion as one of the conditions distinguish- ing enchondroma from cancer. But that the latter, when of the encephaloid species, does occasionally produce this phenomenon, appears from the preparation No. 159, in the museum at St. Bartholomew’s, as likewise from the testimony of Sir A. Cooper and Sir B. Brodie. The latter surgeon amputated the thigh of a boy aged fourteen, for a tumour eighteen inches in circumference—“ this tumour was found to be wholly formed by an expansion of the head of the tibia: its upper and inner part was composed partly of cysts containing a bloody fluid, and partly of organized medul- lary substance1.” (b.) Periosteum.—The periosteum, or more commonly, the cellular tissue uniting it to the bones, may be the sole seat of cancerous dis- ease. As an example of scirrhus originating in this site, the following case, by M. Cruveil- hier, may be related. An inmate of the Sal- petriere, aged about fifty, observed a swelling at the upper part of the sternum tw o or three years after having had a cancerous breast re- moved. It gradually increased to the size of the fist, spread along the right clavicle, and eventually ulcerated in several points ; mean- while tumours, perceptible to the touch, formed in the liver. On post-mortem examination, the internal two-thirds of the clavicle w'ere found very much enlarged, and of fusiform shape: the external third was slender. The tissue of the bone had a healthy aspect, being only corroded superficially, and the morbid formation limited to the periosteum : this membrane “ formed a dense firm cylinder, of fibrous tissue, infiltrated with cancerous juice (scirrhus); the corresponding part of the medullary membrane was thickened, and, as it were, infiltrated with serosity.” (Chronic endosteitis ?) The sternum was infiltrated with cancerous matter, and the disease had spread thence to the pectoralis major, and skin ; reversing the more ordinary course of things, in which the affection of the skeleton is consecutive to that of the soft parts. • 1 On Dis. of Joints, p. 289, Ed. 3, 1834. Periosteal cancer much more commonly exhibits the encephaloid character; and has been described by Sir A. Cooper under the title of “ fungous periosteal exostosis.” “ The swelling,” says this distinguished writer, “ is lobulated ; the greater part of it is composed of a white substance, somewhat elastic, but firm, and not so firm as common cartilage [hard encephaloid]; part of it is coloured by blood, and the texture of this part is softer than the rest. When injected it shows a very unequal vascularity.” The periosteum investing the mass is sometimes enormously thickened, and an abundant mass of bony spiculae disposed in radiating lines, and continuous sometimes with cartilaginiform fibrils, is observed in the sub- stance of the growth. (c.) Endosteum.—In the majority of cases of cancer of the spongy tissue of the long bones, there is coexisting disease in the lining membrane of their cavity. Now, if Cruveil- hier’s opinions be correct, that the compact tissue does not ever, w'hile retaining its cha- racteristic properties, give origin to cancer, and that, as is believed by others also, carci- noma of the spongy tissue originates not in the osseous texture itself, but in the expansion of the central membrane lining these—the immediate seat of cancer in the bones is limited to the endosteum. But as these points are far from established, wre have given a figure placing the possibility of distinct origin of the disease in the cylindrical portion of that mem- brane beyond a doubt. The growth C, in fig. 163, furnishes sufficient evidence by its situa- tion and form, that such may be the nidus of cancerous matter. The disease may co-originate in the cancel- lated structure, central cavity, and periosteum of the same bone. It may be limited to a single bone, to a single region of the skeleton, or affect a considerable number of these in the same subject. The bones of the extremities, the ribs, vertebrae, clavicle, maxillae, cranium, and pelvis, are all observed seats of the affection. Further illustration of this subject will be found in the following section ; and for the practical consideration of it wre refer to the articles Maxilla, Osteo-sarcoma. VII.—Meninges. (a.) Cerebral and Cranial Meninges. —It is unnecessary in a w'ork of this kind to trace the successive steps by which patholo- gists have ascertained that the disease de- scribed by Louis under the title of “ fungus of the dura mater,” is of cancerous nature, and may originate in any of the following situations :—1. Dura mater, (a. external lami- me, b. internal); 2, Pia mater; 3, Cerebral sub- stance ; 4, Cranial bones ; 5, Sub-pericranial cellular tissue'. For an historical sketch of the ’ Cancerous tumours developed in some of these situations cannot, in strict arrangement, be referred to the head of meningeal growths—hut as they are closely connected symptomatically and therefore practically U it 2