727 CATARACT. may arise from various causes. First, it may arise from the incision of the cornea being too small; second, from the capsule of the lens being imperfectly opened ; third, from unna- tural adhesion between the lens and its cap- sule ; and fourth, sometimes perhaps from the pupillary aperture not readily dilating. If the operator has reason to conceive that it is owing to either of the two first of these causes, they must be obviated by enlarging the aper- tures. A moderate and steady pressure is then to be applied ; but if after this the lens does not make its exit from the eye, though its lower edge projects through the pupil, or a portion of the vitreous humour precedes it, an unnatural adhesion between the lens and ils capsule may then be inferred. But as it w'ould now be unsafe to continue the pressure upon the eyeball, from the risk of evacuating the vitreous humour, a small curved spatula should be introduced through the pupil to detach the lens and its capsule from the hyaloid membrane of the vitreous humour, after which it may be hooked out from the eye. In this manipulation some of the vitreous humour may be discharged, but there will be less risk of losing the eye than if the pressure had been continued. e. Fragments breaking from the Lens. It not unfrequently happens that in press- ing out the lens, portions of its circumference become detached, and remain behind the pupil. When this is the case, subsequent pressure should not be applied to the eye to remove them, on account of the risk of press- ing out the vitreous humour ; but the eye should be gently rubbed, through the medium of the upper eyelid, after which the fragments will be found to have advanced into the ante- rior chamber ; if so, they will readily be re- moved by raising the flap of the cornea with the curette. Should any particles of the lens remain, they will soon become absorbed, so that it is both unnecessary and very likely to be injurious, to make any further endeavours to remove them. f. Escape of the Vitreous Humour. The escape of a portion, or the whole of the vitreous humour, is often attributed to spasmodic or violent action of the muscles of the eyeball, but is more commonly to be at- tributed to immoderate pressure upon the eye, or to weakness and disorganization of the hyaloid membrane from age or disease, or its having been lacerated at some stage of the operation. The escape of a portion of the vitreous humour does not frustrate the success of the. operation, and has even been consi- dered, in some cases, an advantageous occur- rence, by lessening the tension of the eye when inflammation takes place. Protrusion of the vitreous humour may occur either before the exit of the lens, along with it, or after it. If a portion of the vitreous humour either projects from the pupil, or escapes before the lens, no farther pressure should be made upon the eye, and the cataract should be removed by means of a hook, or barbed needle, introduced through the pupil. There is a difference of opinion as to how much of the vitreous humour may be evacuated with- out vision being destroyed. If less than a third escapes, the recovery of the eye, and the restoration of sight., may not be much impeded ; but when this accident has hap- pened, and a portion of the hyaloid membrane is protruded between the lips of the incision of the cornea, the healing of the wound goes on slowly and unfavourably, and the pupil is distorted by the iris being pulled towards the incision. A protrusion of the iris is also very apt to take place from the wound ; and if more of the vitreous humour than a third has been evacuated, the prognosis is very unfa- vourable, from the probability of permanent collapse of the eye and closure of the pupil. When a portion of vitreous humour pro- jects from the wound of the cornea, and can- not be replaced, it should be snipped off with the scissors, by which the remainder is allowed to fall back into the eye, and withdraw the portion of hyaloid membrane which was inter- posed betwreen the lips of the wound. It is particularly worthy of remark, that in operating on glaucomatous eyes, or on those where an operation for the removal of a cata- ract had been previously attempted by the needle, and by which the capsule of the lens and hyaloid membrane had been lacerated, a disorganized state of the vitreous humour may be expected. g. Protrusion of the Iris. After the lens has been extracted from the eye, a portion of the iris is apt to protrude through the wmund in the cornea. When this does not happen from the incision being too close to the margin of the cornea, it may in general be remedied by gently rubbing the eyeball through the upper eyelid, and then suddenly exposing the eye to the light. If this does not succeed, the iris may be pressed into its place by the point of the curette ; or, when the iris projects or bulges in the form of a bag, by making an opening into it by the snip of scissors, so as to evacuate the aqueous humour from behind it, the return of the pro- truding portion will take place. But if a protrusion of the iris takes place some days after the operation, and in a gradual manner, attended with the gaping, swelling, and opacity of the edges of the wound, no direct attempt need be made to replace the iris. In this case it is probably the result of inflammation, so that antiphlogistic remedies should be vigorously applied ; and if the pro- trusion is large, the aqueous humour con- tained in it may be evacuated. These means are most likely to accomplish the replacement of the iris, and to prevent further injury to the eye. The use of belladonna should, in such cases, be avoided, as it might increase the protrusion. In some cases of this kind