AMPUTATION. 144 jambe, un boucher en feroit bien autant; mais c’est de se rendre maitre du sang en l’arretant avec promptitude et avec surete.”— It certainly is more easy to amputate a limb than to stop the bleeding afterwards ; and yet how little care has been taken to impress the young surgeon with a sense of the difficulty and importance of this part of his duty. Here, a keen eye, a practised hand, and minute ana- tomical knowledge are especially necessary. As soon as the amputation is over and the re- tractor removed, the soft parts of the stump are seen tending to recede from the end of the bone. The vessels shorten somewhat after their division ; they generally lie more or less concealed in the interstices of the muscles, and are not very apparent on the surface of the wound. The nerves, which shorten less, are more prominent objects upon it. The muscles are tound to have retracted more or less according to the length of their fibres, and to have drawn up in their sheaths the tendons belonging to them. The arteries are to be tied without delay ; and the surgeon should secure the principal branches in the order of their volume and known position. He will do well in searching for the others, to proceed from the bone to- wards the skin. By this order he will save much time, and no inconsiderable quantity of blood. The ligature is the means adopted, almost without exception, now a-days, to arrest the bleeding after amputations. The principles on which its application is founded, are developed in the Articles Ligature, Aneurism, and Haemorrhage. (See these Articles.) The ligatures should be round, and not larger than is required to admit of being tied tight enough to divide the internal and middle coats of the arteries without danger of break- ing. Those made of inkle or silk are usually employed. It will be well for the surgeon to be aided by two assistants in securing the arteries, one to apply the ligatures, the other to hold the stump in a convenient position between his two hands, which are gently to grasp and support it. He is himself to take up the arteries, and should stand or sit quite at his ease, so as to be able to use both hands rapidly yet steadily. In the left he will hold a sponge moistened with hot water to wipe the blood from the end of the stump ; in the right a forceps or tenaculum. The former is better suited for the larger, the latter for the smaller vessels. In using the forceps he is to place its branches on opposite sides of the artery, and to lay hold of it by bringing them together. With the tenaculum he is to seize it by hooking it through. Where, from the smallness of the vessel, or from its situation, it cannot readily be secured, he is to mark the spot whence the blood issues, as he wipes it away, and at that spot to lay hold of it, the instant he uplifts the sponge, and before a fresh gush of blood conceals it. When seized, the artery is to be slightly drawn out from the surface of the wound ; and if the surgeon perceives he has taken anything with it, he must isolate it by transfixing it with a tenacu- lum behind the instrument retaining it. The assistant isolating it, is to tie it immediately behind the instrument, as he would tie up the mouth of any yielding tube. Having made the knot, at. first loosely, he is to tighten it by drawing steadily on the ligature wound round the last three fingers of his hands, while his thumbs, or index fingers, serving as pulleys, direct it to the exact place where it is to embrace the vessel, but always rather away from the instrument, lest it slip off. If a forceps is used, the noose may be first made on it and then slipped over its end on to the artery, to be there tightened. When the coats of the vessel, after gradually yielding to the pressure of the ligature, cease to give way, we may be sure the internal and middle ones are divided, and that the knot is suffi- ciently tight. By this the proper degree of force can always be estimated. As the liga- ture should be fastened by what is called a right knot, a second knot is to be made over the first, and care must be taken to let no- thing interpose between the two1. Some- times there is great difficulty in securing an artery owing to its being situated in an excava- tion or among tissues which conceal it and fa- cilitate its retraction, such as aponeurotic tex- tures 3. In this case, if it cannot be seized with Assilini’s forceps, a ligature, which is to em- brace with it some immediately surrounding tissues, but as little of them as possible, may be passed round it by means of a curved needle. Such a ligature should be very strong, as considerable force may be necessary to tighten it; and if not drawn sufficiently tight to cause the sloughing of the tissues, which it includes, it might be retained by them and thus retard the cicatrization of the wound. The disadvantage of securing an artery thus mediately is in relation to its volume, because the larger the vessel the more uncertain is its obliteration by this kind of ligature ; and the more likely is it to be accompanied by veins and nerves which it were well to exclude, but which cannot be ex- cluded from it. The inconvenience of tying small arteries mediately is not very great, and many surgeons in taking them up do not make a point of isolating them with nicety. All the arteries are to be secured which, on the tourniquet being removed, furnish blood in a distinct .jet or stream, however small. The surgeon may know he has tied all those which require a ligature, when, after cleaning the stump with a sponge, he finds the blood is not renewed in sufficient quantity to pre- 1 I once saw the application of a ligature to the ex- ternal iliac considerably retarded by the interposition of something between the two knots. The surgeon thought it right on that account, to tie the vessel a second time. 'l M. Ribes thinks the degree to which the anterior tibial artery retracts after division is owing to the man- ner in which it traverses the upper part of the inter- osseous ligament.