AUSCULTATION. 446 IV.—Immediate and Mediate Auscultation.— At the head of this article, auscultation is used in its most extended sense. In this place it is limited to the mediate or immediate applica- tion of the ear to the patient’s body, and it is in this confined sense that authors generally use the term. By adding the epithets mediate and immediate all confusion may be avoided. (а) Immediate Auscultation, like immediate percussion, does not forbid that a cloth or a part of the dress should be placed on the patient’s skin, it only denies us the use of any instrument by which the sound might be in- creased. Without this permission to cover the ear, decorum or cleanliness would in most cases prevent this method of examination. When the ear is applied directly to the chest much information may be obtained, and they who are unable or unwilling to use the stethoscope ought, at least, to avail themselves of this help. It is inconvenient, however, in practice, and has given way to the stethoscope except in the case of children—with these it may be used advantageously ; they are some- times frightened at the sight of the instru- ment, and do not quietly submit to its appli- cation ; but they will not, nor can they, so effectually oppose the direct application of the ear. In them, too, the sounds that are sought for are much more audible than in the adult. (б) Mediate Auscultation.—For the dis- covery of this invaluable mode of exploration we are indebted to the genius of Laennec. This great man having, by patient research and unrivalled acuteness, perfected one of the most splendid offerings ever made to medical science, thus simply and unpretendingly gives its history and presents it to the profession, “ In 1816 I was consulted by a young woman labouring under general symptoms of diseased heart, and in whose case percussion and the application of the hand were of little avail, on account of the great degree of fatness. The other method just mentioned (immediate auscultation) being rendered inadmissible by the age and sex of the patient, I happened to recollect a simple and well known fact in acoustics, and fancied that it might, at the same time, be turned to some use on the pre- sent occasion. The fact I allude to is the augmented impression of sound when con- veyed through certain solid bodies,—as when we hear the scratch of a pin at one end of a piece of wood, on applying our ear to the other. Immediately on this suggestion, I rolled a quire of paper into a kind of cylinder, and applied one end of it to the region of the heart, and the other to my ear, and was not a little surprised and pleased, to find that I could thereby perceive the action of the heart in a manner much more clear and distinct than I had ever been able to do by the immediate application of the ear. From this moment I imagined that the circumstance might furnish means for enabling us to ascertain the charac- ter, not only of the action of the heart, but of every species of sound produced by the motion of all the thoracic viscera, and consequently for the exploration of the respiration of the voice, the rattle and perhaps even the fluc- tuation of fluid extravasated in the pleura or pericardium. With this conviction I forthwith commenced at the Hospital Necker a series of observations which have been continued to the present time. The consequence is, that I have been enabled to discover a set of new signs of diseases of the chest, for the most part certain, simple, and prominent, and calculated, perhaps, to render the diagnosis of the dis- eases of the lungs, heart, and pleura, as decided and circumstantial, as the indication furnished to the surgeon by the introduction of the finger or sound in the complaints wherein these are used The stethoscope is principally used in ex- ploring the chest, and in the hands of the physician has removed many of the obscurities of the medical diagnosis. The tactus eruditus and the eagle eye of the surgeon are now nearly equalled in accuracy by the educated ear of the physician. A new sense is thus given to medicine ; and where this is used not as a substitute for, but as a help to, the other means of diagnosis, the most valuable results follow. It is well that every surgeon should be fa- miliar with the use of the stethoscope, and be able to interpret all its signs ; but as they relate chiefly to medical cases a full description of them here would be out of place. A brief notice of the application of this instrument to surgical cases is all that can now be given. (1.) Foreign bodies in the trachea maybe discovered by means of the stethoscope, when the symptoms are too obscure to point them out otherwise. A remarkable ronflement or sonoro-mucous rale is heard in the trachea when the body moves ; and when it is quiet, the respiratory murmur usually ceases in one lung, (generally the right,) although clearness on percussion remains. These signs are well illustrated in the interesting cases given by Mr. M'Namara in the 5th vol. of the Dublin Hospital Reports2. See Tracheotomy. (2.) Fractures.—Every surgeon has expe- rienced the difficulty of feeling, or of hearing with the unassisted ear, the crepitus which he searches for in some cases of fracture, espe- cially those near a joint, or when much swelling attends. On such occasions mediate ausculta- tion will frequently afford him essential help. When the stethoscope is applied to fractures that have a well marked crepitus, the sound is increased so much as to be unpleasant to the ear : a rough crashing sound like that produced by “ breaking a piece of wood across the knee.” Even the slight motion in the frag- ments caused by the pressure of the instru- ment, without any attempt to move them, W’ill often be enough to produce the expected sound, and thus the patient may be saved much 1 Treatise on the Diseases of the Chest, by R. T. II. Laennec, translated by Dr. Forbes. Lond. 11127. 5 Sec also Dr. Houston’s case, Dub. Med. Jour, vol. v.