292 FRACTURE. highest surgical skill, and established by the most extensive experience, received complete confirmation when the civil hospitals of Paris were crowded with gun-shot fractures in 1830, and 1832. By immediate amputation, 1 must be under- stood to mean amputation performed at any time after the patient rallies from the first shock of the injury, and before symptoms of inflammation have set in. M. Vidal (de Cas- sis) mentions two cases in his “ Traite de Pathologie Externe et de Medecine Opera- toirein which he amputated the thigh, while the patients were without movement, in a state of insensibility. M. Velpeau, who was consulted respecting one of the cases, gave his advice against operating under the existing circumstances. Both cases, how- ever, had a rapid recovery. Notwithstanding, I think, the practice is clearly to be con- demned. Immediate amputation is sometimes contra- indicated by the extreme severity of the com- plications of the fracture, which leaves no rea- sonable ground to expect the recovery of the patient with, or without, amputation. M. Du- puytren relates two cases 1 2, in which he ab- stained from operating on this account. In one, the patient, a lad of 17, had fallen from a great height on his feet, nothing having broken his fall. In the left leg the heel w'as dreadfully contused, and the bones of the tarsus crushed. The tibia and fibula were torn asunder at their inferior articulation, the extremity of the tibia was crushed, and the leg broken in its upper third. On the right side the os calcis was crushed, but this was not known till after death, and the leg was fractured at about its middle: the upper fragment of the tibia had been driven through the integuments; and its protruded extremity was stripped of its periosteum, oblique and sharp. M. Dupuytrcn did not judge it right to bleed the patient, owing to his extreme weakness, till the day after the accident. In the course of that day he died. M. Dupuy- tren makes the following remarks on this case. “ This case is certainly one of the most severe to be found recorded. How- ever, it is not without example that patients have escaped who have sustained injuries as great as these ; if the lesions described had existed on one side only, immediate amputa- tion would have been urgently called for. But in this case, why did we not resort to it ? For this reason ; because the situation of the patient was so hopeless, so complicated, that it could not be simplified by an operation ; it would have been an operation completely thrown away, and, consequently, it was con- tra-indicated. In vain will it be objected that military surgeons have frequently ampu- tated both legs when fractured by cannon- shot, and have thus saved many lives. There is no parallelism between these cases, and 1 Tom. v. p. 849. 3 Vide Letjons Orales, t. iv. p. 24.'), &c. that of which we have just given the particu- lars : in our patient, besides the severe inju- ries of the lower extremities, it is necessary to take into account the general state of the patient occasioned by the violent concussion resulting from the fall from so great a height, and transmitted from below upwards to the organs of the great cavities, and especially to the brain.” In the second case, a similar accident occasioned a wound, laying the fron- tal bone bare extensively, and a fracture of the base of the orbit; a fracture of the right thigh, with protrusion of the fragments, and contusion of the knee ; dislocation of the left tibia and fibula behind the condyles of the femur, and comminuted fracture of the patella of the same side, with three or four wounds penetrating into the knee-joint, which was found full of blood and air. The patient was delirious at the time of his admission into the hospital. M. Dupuytren, from the same motives that governed his conduct in abstain- ing from amputation in the former case, de- clined to operate in this. The same great authority points out the atmospheric constitution as sometimes contra- indicating operations. In large civil hospi- tals, and in military hospitals encumbered with the wounded, at times, hospital gangrene, erysipelas, or phlebitis, prevails, as it were, epidemically. During the prevalence of the atmospheric constitution, whatever it may be, that, gives rise to this state of things, imme- diate amputation would almost certainly be followed by the death of the patient, and should, therefore, not be performed. This contra-indication will very rarely be met with, except in hospitals crowded with sick. In all cases that raise the question of immediate amputation, we must take into careful consideration, the age, vigour of con- stitution, &c. of the patient. In cases of extreme severity, when the patient is young and robust, we may venture on amputation, in the hope that the vigour of his vital powers will carry him in safety through dangers that would be inevitably fatal to a patient in advanced years, or of enfeebled constitution. On the other hand, in those cases in which it is doubtful whether the complications of the fracture are sufficiently severe to demand immediate amputation, the youth and vigour of the patient will encourage us to run the risk of preserving his limb. In either of these cases, if the patient is old, or of broken con- stitution, our practice will, on the contrary, be influenced exactly in an opposite direc- tion. Complicated fractures will, of course, re- quire very different treatment according to the nature of the complication. When the fracture is accompanied w ith the rupture of a large artery or vein, the complication is one of great importance, and in the former case, one demanding the utmost promptitude and boldness on the part of the surgeon. In the case of a wounded vein, w hether the fracture 1