BLOOD-LETTING. 484- have been enumerated, are also to be derived from this method, in all local affections where the parts from which the blood is to be with- drawn are tender to the touch, and any other mode of local blood-letting is inadmis- sible. Cupping.—In all cases oflocal inflammation where the general system is not disturbed, leeches are preferable to venesection, whilst the operation of cupping holds as it were a middle place, being applicable not only in cases of local inflammations and congestions, where there are no febrile symptoms, and where leeches might be employed, but also in cases where the action of the vascular system is in- creased. In all inflammations and congestions about the head, cupping on the back of the neck, and between the shoulders, is a most useful mode of abstracting blood, and this ope- ration is also particularly applicable for the removal of blood from the parietes of the chest and abdomen in diseases of the different vis- cera. Its use, however, is only admissible when it can be employed without exciting pain, and irritating the diseased organ. In such cases I have often seen cupping do mis- chief. For the same reasons cupping inflamed joints, or parts, where much external tender- ness is present, is often injurious, so that in such cases leeches are decidedly preferable. Cupping is also preferable in those cases where the application of leeches is followed by severe erysipelas of the skin. The very circumstance of the cupping-glasses irritating the tender parts, and drawing blood from the surrounding parts to the place where they are are applied, renders it an eligible mode of ab- stracting blood in cases of congestion, more particularly of the brain, the glasses being ap- plied to the nape of the neck, whilst cupping is the least preferable mode of abstracting blood when the application of the glasses ex- cites pain, and the influx of blood to the dis- eased part is increased. Although, therefore, cupping may be, under many circumstances, pre- ferred, yet it cannot be denied that there are no cases where cupping can be advantageous, in which all the essential utility of abstracting blood by that operation might not be obtained either by venesection, or by leeches, or by a combina- tion of both of those methods. I have often remarked, that in this metropolis, where there are so many dexterous performers of this ope- ration, persons, more particularly those subject to plethora in the head, are apt to indulge in a luxurious system of living, the evil effects of which they can at all times have readily re- moved by cupping. Scarification.—There is no class of diseases where the effects of the local abstraction of blood are so well exemplified as in some in- flammations of the eye, in which a quantity of blood may be taken from the conjunctiva by the operation of scarification. The beneficial effects of applying leeches at the orifices of the different mucous canals, when depletion is required, is well established, and the operation of scarifying the conjunctiva, lancing the gums, puncturing htemorrhoidal tumours, and making incisions in inflamed parts, all give re- lief on the same principle. GENERAL BLOOD-LETTING. Having endeavoured to point out the diffe- rent modes by which blood may be abstracted locally, and illustrated the salutary effects of local depletion by references to the phenomena of spontaneous haemorrhages, various local in- flammatory affections, as well as congestions of blood, we now come to consider the subject of general blood-letting, the indications which point out the propriety of employing it, and the quantity of blood to be removed in the treatment of various diseases. It was remarked that whenever any local disease or injury has excited a febrile dis- turbance throughout the system, general bleed- ing ought then to be decidedly preferred to local bleeding, and the indications to which our attention ought more especially to be di- rected in deciding on the propriety of ge- neral blood-letting, are, the state of the heart and arteries, and the character of the local pain. The leading symptom by which the consti- tutional disturbance demanding venesection is indicated, will be found in the quality of the radial pulse; and in deciding on the propriety of general blood-letting, it is not always ne- cessary that the pulse should be frequent, or tense, or full, or hard, but on all occasions to be satisfied of the propriety of abstracting blood from a vein, whenever, in any complaint of an inflammatory type, or under circum- stances such as those after operations, or acci- dents, there is the least deviation in the pulse from the natural state. No sooner have a few ounces of blood been abstracted under such circumstances, than the pulse will be observed to “ rise,” as it is called, and to acquire volume and power, thus confirming the propriety of the measure. There is nothing more uncertain than trust- ting to the qualities of the radial pulse, which are usually described as those which alone in- dicate the propriety of blood-letting, and we ought ever to be aware of the important fact, that, during an attack of inflammation, the pulse varies according to the organ affected, and is even different in inflammatory affections of different textures of the same organ, except in one particular character which shall be pre- sently pointed out. The mere difference in the frequency of the pulse is a circumstance of little impor- tance in estimating the propriety of general blood-letting, compared with certain changes in its qualities, and, therefore, the usual prac- tice of merely counting the number of pul- sations, is apt to lead to the formation of an erroneous opinion. In two patients, in each of whom the pulse beats 120 in a minute, the one may require to be plentifully bled, and the other to have cordials!