20 EAR, AND HEARING, DISEASES OF, In front and a little above the vestibular fenestra, and on the anterior extremity of the prominence of the aqueduct of Fallopius, is a tubular projection with a wide open mouth directed outwards. This tubular projection, called the cochleariform process, is generally found incomplete in the dry bone, in conse- quence of being composed of a very thin brit- tle substance. It is the continuation, bent at nearly a right angle outwards, of the canal or half canal, about half an inch in length, and destined for the reception of the internal mus- cle of the malleus, which lies above the os- seous part of the Eustachian tube, and is se- parated from it merely by a thin lamina of bone, the continuation of that forming the tubular projection. Fig. 192. Fig. 192. The inner u-all of the tympanum. a. Promontory; b, vestibular fenestra ; r, cochlear fenestra ; d, pyramid ; e, eminence of the aqueduct of Fallopius; f cochleariform process and half canal for the internal muscle of the malleus. The outer wall of the tympanum is formed by the membrana tympani and the inner ex- tremity of the osseous part of the external auditory passage, in which the membrana tym- pani is framed. In the upper wall of the tympanum there is an excavation for receiving the upper part of the incus, and leading from that excava- tion, at the upper and back part of the tym- panum, is a short, wide, triangular canal, with a rough cellular surface. This is the passage to the mastoid cells, through the medium of a large cell called simtositas mastoulea. The mastoid cells are cavities in the mas- toid process, all communicating with each other. They are quite irregular in regard to size, number, and relative situation. They are found completely developed only in the adult. Inferiorly, the cavity of the tympanum forms a sort of furrow, which presents nothing particular. It is bounded by the plate of bone which forms the outer wall of the jugular fossa. Anteriorly the cavity of the tympanum opens into the osseous portion of the Eusta- chian tube. The ossicles or small bones of the ear.—In the upper part of the cavity of the tym- panum there are three small bones articu- lated with each other, and forming a chain which extends from the membrana tympani to the vestibular fenestra. The bones are named malleus, incus, and stapes, from their re- sembling more or less, respectively a hammer, an anvil, and a stirrup iron. The stapes, the innermost and most essential, is engaged in the vestibular fenestra. The outermost of the chain, the malleus, is in connexion with the membrana tympani. The intermediate bone, the incus, receives the head of the malleus into the concave articular surface which its body presents, and is articulated with the head of the stapes, through the me- dium of the lenticular process of its long branch. The short branch of the incus is directed horizontally backwards towards the entrance into the mastoid cells, and is there fixed by means of a short and broad ligament, which arises from a small pit in the outer wall, and embracing its extremity is inserted on it. The chain of small bones is moved by two muscles, one of which is inserted into the malleus, the other into the stapes ; both are tensors of the membrana tympani. A relax- ation or state of rest of this membrane takes place of itself, as Treviranus remarks, when the tensors cease to act; hence a rclaxator muscle of the membrana tympani was not required. Lining membrane of the cavity of the tympa- num. This is in continuity with the mucous membrane of the throat, through the Eusta- chian tube. Extremely delicate, and in some parts very vascular, it is not merely a mucous membrane, but is theoretically a combination of periosteum and mucous membrane, being what Bichat called fibro-mucous. It invests all the elevations and depressions observed on the walls of the tympanum, and extends into the mastoid cells. The fenestra rotunda or cochlear fenestra is, in the recent state, closed by a membrane which shuts out the cavity of the tympanum from any direct communication with the coch- lea. This membrane, called by Scarpa the secondary membrane of the tympanum, is con- cave towards the cavity of the tympanum, convex towards the tympanic scala of the cochlea, and is received at its circumference into a groove within the orifice of the fenestra rotunda. It is composed theoretically of three layers, the outer of which is a continua- tion of that lining the cavity of the tympanum, and which we are at present describing. The inner layer is the fibro-serous membrane lining the labyrinthic cavity. The third and proper layer, situated between the two just men- tioned, is composed, according to Pappen- heim, of concentric and radiating fibres '. The base of the stapes is fixed by its cir- cumference to the outer edge of the groove, which encircles the vestibular fenestra, by a membrane or ligament. The lining membrane of the vestibule, continued over the base of the stapes from within, also invests the inner surface of this annular ligament, whilst the 1 Ut supra.