FISTULA, URINARY. 230 the margin of the anus. Indeed, some writers, from the circumstance that they sometimes do open ultimately upon some point of the uri- nary passages, have described them as incom- plete external urinary fistulas, while they have described also the urinary tumour, in the early stage of ulceration, as the incomplete internal. These external fistulas, however, have no title as such to the denomination of urinary ; in fact, no urine ever issues at their orifices, and they depend, not on ulceration of the urinary passages, but on the formation of an abscess from other causes, such as disease of the bones of the pelvis, wounds, the presence of foreign bodies, &c. Fistulae, involving the bladder, and having an opening on the skin, frequently result from the operation of lithotomy ; they, however, also occur from the irritation produced by the presence of calculi, and occasionally from that arising from sounds worn habitually. Mercier has observed in the Hospital for Old Men, patients who voided their urine with difficulty, and in whom perforations of the bladder took place, giving rise to exten- sive extravasation, and fistula. Most of these cases had a speedy and fatal termination. When the internal orifice of the fistula is connected with the bladder, there is a constant leaking of the urine by the external orifice, unless the vesical opening be small, and the track outwards, oblique, and sinuous. In the latter case, the most, or the whole of the urine, especially if no impediment exist, may pass by the urethra ; or if any portion of it be voided by the fistula, it is driven into this route only by the efforts which the patient makes for its expulsion. Still this small quan- tity keeps up the permeability of the track, and at the same time indicates the nature of the case. When the internal orifice is situated in the urethra, the emission of urine from the exter- nal orifice of the fistula occurs only at the time the patient makes water, or immediately after- wards. But whether the internal orifice be situated in the bladder, or in the urethra, the surgeon must not always expect to be able to determine his diagnosis by bringing his catheter, introduced into the urethra, into contact with his probe passed into the fistulous track ; for in numerous instances this will be impossible, from the narrowness and obliquity of the acci- dental passage. In urinary fistula the prognosis depends much on the general health of the patient, his age, the extent of the ravages produced by the disease, and the length of time it has existed. In aged and debilitated subjects it is ex- tremely doubtful, not to say unfavourable. In some cases, the removal of impediments to the free flow of the urine will be sufficient to effect a cure ; in others, where the natural channel is all but obliterated, the cure is extremely difficult, and even sometimes impos- sible ; and this may be the case also where the loss of substance from sloughing has been considerable. There is a highly interesting case, recorded by Dr. Houston, in vol. viii. of the Dublin Journ. of Med. Science, which, as it places in a clear and practical point of view some of the resources which surgery employs in cases of difficult and complicated urinary fistula, we transcribe in an abbreviated form. The patient was afflicted with extensive urinary fistulae, the consequence of sloughing from fracture of the bones of the pelvis. The fistulous orifices were situated in the back, thigh, and perineum. But little of the urine found its way through the urethra, while the accidental openings, being insufficient for its exit, were only kept open with great diffi- culty, and were subject to repeated burstings. The catheter could not be passed into the urethra beyond the arch of the pubis, owing to the projection of the callus from the united fracture of the rami of the ischium and pubis, and the perineum was so concealed by the ankylosed thigh, and so narrow, distorted, and shrivelled up, that there was no possi- bility of cutting down upon it in that situation. Symptoms of hectic set in, and were making such rapid progress, that it became urgent to have some operation performed. Tapping, either above the pubis, or by the rectum, were objectionable, as affording but temporary relief. In exploring the lower part of the urethra by the rectum, Dr. Houston discovered through the wall of the gut, what seemed to him a cavity, or reservoir, into which the urine flowed from the neck of the bladder, and from which it subsequently forced its way into the different fistulous tracks. Acting on this view of the case, he made an incision, as in lithotomy, in the direction of this cavity, which he reached at the depth of his finger. He then ascertained, by passing a probe through the perineal fistulous opening, and touching his finger in the sac with it, that a communication existed between them. A gum catheter was introduced through the wound, and fixed to the inside of the thigh, so as to insure a free issue for the urine. After a few days it ceased to pass by the fistulous tracks, and it began to be voided in small quantity by the urethra. In a short time after- wards the catheter could be passed through the wound fairly into the bladder. Dr. Houston now proceeded to dilate the urethra, and soon brought the silver catheter employed for the purpose, into contact with the catheter which occupied the wound. “ Having succeeded thus far,” says Dr. H., “ and practised the operation for a few days, gradually enlarging the catheter, I substituted a long, widely-grooved, silver director for the perineal catheter; and on the groove of this instrument, succeeded in conducting the silver catheter the entire way along the urethra into the bladder.” A gum elastic catheter was next substituted for the silver one, and it was intro- duced, and allowed to remain in the passage an hour or two every morning. In a few weeks afterwards, the cure was complete. This is an exceedingly interesting case, and