ANUS. 33 i cesses about the anus that our attention will be directed ; the general doctrine of their formation having been treated in the article Abscess. The existence of so much cellular tissue, bolstering up the sides of the extremity of the rectum, is favourable to the production of phlegmonous or carbunculous abscesses ; and the abscess will be the one or the other, ac- cording to the tone or atony of the organism, or as the action may be moderate and con- tinuous, or excessive and sudden. The situation in which they prevail are the ischio-rectal spaces between the levator ani and obturator interims muscles ; between the two laminae of the pelvic fascia which embrace the levator ani, and consequently involving the muscle itself; in front of the rectum and above the transversus perinei muscle; and, lastly, between the margin of the internal and the superior surface of the external sphincter muscles themselves. 1. Phlegmonous Abscess.—Abscesses of this description occur in all the situations we have just indicated, and, in most instances, it is by no means easy to determine the cause which has produced them. Whether the inflamma- tory action which precedes and is coincident with their appearance be established by the local irritation, or, whether the febrile excite- ment relieve itself by the formation of pus in these parts, as it often does in others, may admit, of doubt, but affects not the question of functional disturbance or the means of relief. The usual indications of a phlegmonous abs- cess, redness and swelling of the part, are not always, in the first instance, to be observed; and we are often able to detect the existence of matter before any external sign is apparent. To the general disturbance of the circulation heretofore described (see Abscess) are added phenomena which depend for their produc- tion on the peculiar functions of the neigh- bouring organs. When the matter is deposited between the embracing laminae of the levator ani, the tumour formed by it encroaches on the rectum and diminishes its capacity, offering a physical impediment to the expulsion of the faeces ; the performance of which act, during the in- flammatory stage which preceded the elimina- tion of pus, was attended with aggravated suffering, being, now that the canal is nar- rowed, accompanied by such unbearable tor- ments that every effort which the will can make is employed to resist the impulse to evacuate the bowels. The bladder, too, be- comes implicated to a greater or less extent. Commencing with a simple, but often re- peated desire to urinate, its sympathy aug- ments as the disease advances ; dribbling of the urine is superadded to the desire to urinate ; and complete retention occurs when the tumour attains a large size. This last phenomenon, however, does not so frequently occur when the matter is situated laterally to the rectum, as it does when the abscess is formed in front of that organ. 12 All this functional disturbance may be produced without any external indications of the nature of the affection ; or, if there be any, they are of so uncertain a character as not to be depended on. The finger, and the finger alone, introduced per anum, will announce to us the condition of parts ; a fact which enforces the necessity of instituting this mode of investigation at the outset of any affection which may interfere with the functions of the bladder or rectum. This is still more impressed on us by a considera- tion of the effect of matter, so pent up, on the rectum itself. On the one hand, we have a fascia of some density, supported on its outer side by a cushion of cellular tissue, which prevents the extension of the walls of the abs- cess in that direction, save by the successive agglutination of the tissues; and, on the other, we have the rectum readily yielding to- wards its cavity and opposing little resistance to the extension of the abscess on that side. It, therefore, becomes a point of deep import- ance to make an exit for the pus by bold and prompt incisions through the integuments ; everting the gluteus maximus, and cutting by the side of the rectum so as to penetrate into the ischio-rectal space. If this procedure be deferred until the fluctuation can be apprecia- ted externally, one of two things will happen; either the abscess will open into the rectum, or that gut will be so thinned as to expose its mucous coat, and thus render unavoidable its division so as to form one cavity of the abscess and the rectum. (See Fistula.) 2. Phlegmonous abscess occurs, also, in the ischio-rectal space, on the outside of the fascia of the levator ani muscle ; but it is of a less alarming character as respects the impli- cation of the rectum and bladder in this, than in the former, situation, though equally so as regards its ultimate effects. The nature of the tissue contained in it favours the accumu- lation of pus when once it has been secreted; but, as it is not bound so closely to the rectum and bladder as, in fact, the levator ani and its fasciae intervene between the abscess and those organs, their functions are not neces- sarily impaired at the commencement of the deposition. The same urgency, however, exists for the speedy and complete opening of the abscess. By neglecting to open it, the cavity rapidly extends itself, and an immense reservoir of pus is established which is not always restricted to one side; but, on the contrary, sometimes passes behind the rectum to the opposite ischio-rectal space ; and in- stances are not wanting in which the rectum has been completely dissected out and left pendulous in a pool of pus. 1 he matter accumulates more upwards than downwards by reason of the impediment of- fered by the union of the fascia of the levator ani with that of the obturator interims, at the line where they commence their joint descent, behind the transversus perinei muscle, on the surface of the gluteus maximus. Hence, by being long pent up, the matter separates the