829 CONTUSION. of the aponeuroses, this appearance maj' be ma- nifested at more or less distance from the place of the contusion. Collections formed under such circumstances do not, however, always terminate, either by resolution, or suppuration. The walls of the cavity containing them some- times degenerate, and their removal by exci- sion or cauterization becomes necessary. The contused muscles themselves, too, may recover their functions but, slowly and in an imperfect degree; a consequence the more likely to re- sult when any considerable branch of nerve has suffered from the lesion. Local incurable paralysis from severe contusion is not uncom- mon, and the author of this article has wit- nessed a case of permanent amaurosis from the pressure of the head in a wine-press. Some of the injuries to internal organs from contusion are noticed in the articles, Contre- Coup, and Head, and need not be reproduced here. The lesions of the thoracic viscera comprise rupture of blood-vessels, or of the heart itself, aneurism, inflammation of the lungs, pleura?, &c., palpitation, dyspnea, &c., with or without fracture of the ribs. Those of the abdominal viscera, which are produced more readily when these are distended, com- prise rupture of the stomach, small and large intestines, bladder, gall-bladder, liver, spleen, mesentery and blood-vessels, as well as herniae and the strangulation of hernias already exist- ing. Contusion of the genital organs gives rise in the male, to the total destruction or inflammation of the testes, to haematocele, or effusion of blood within the tunica vaginalis, to extravasation of blood in the scrotum, or urine by the laceration of the urethra ; in the female, it may give rise to abortion, inflamma- tion of the uterus, degeneration of the ovaries, The sloughing that occurs of the vagina and posterior wall of the bladder in long protracted labour from the pressure of the head of the child, producing vesico-vaginal fistula, is itself nothing else than an effect of contusion. The contusion of joints, like that of large vessels, may be so completely destructive as to require speedy amputation. When less severe, the injury nevertheless demands the utmost care and attention in order to avert the prospective mischief of inflammation of the ligaments, of the synovial membrane, swelling and destruction of the articular cartilages, and the usual train of suffering that accompanies the successive disorganization of all the tissues of the articulation. The bones and glandular tissues exhibit the bad effects of bruises, which, in the for- mer produce osteitis and its consequences; and in the latter, the various degenerations to which these organs are liable, such as chronic enlargement, scirrhus, &c. The skin, as has been already stated, often escapes with slight injury, but this is by no means the case, when it happens to be crushed between two hard surfaces. Of this, we have an instance in bruises of the integument of the shin, and of the sharp edge of the ulna. When completely disorganised, it is livid, in- elastic, and insensible; after a day or two, spots of a greyish or dirty yellow colour ap- pear upon it, and its separation from the living parts becomes gradually more and more de- fined. The Diagnosis of contusion is in general easily formed; but the surgeon should not allow himself to be deceived by the blackness of the skin ; for, if it be not deprived of sen- sibility also, it is not destroyed. The disco- loration caused by ecchymose is diffused, pre- senting various hues, the deepest being at the centre. Sometimes a tumour resulting from the effusion of blood from a contusion pulsates like an aneurism. The position of the tumour, the history of its formation, together with the possibility or otherwise of interrupting the pulsations, by making pressure on the vessel from which it would derive its supply, were the tumour really aneurismal, will remove any doubt as to its nature. It is much more difficult to avoid the mis- take of confounding the effusion of blood caused by a contusion, with a collection of pus. Here again the previous symptoms guide our opinions. If there have been no inflam- matory symptoms, if the effusion be largely diffused, and not pointed, if the feeling of fluctuation be unequal, fluctuating freely where the extravasation forms a pool, and affording the feeling of pressing a sponge, where the blood is simply infiltrated, then we can at once feel assured that it is not an abscess, the fluctuation in which is equal throughout its entire extent. Treatment.—When both the soft parts and bones of a limb are thoroughly crushed, there can be no hesitation as to the course to be adopted. The limb must be removed, and that, too, before inflammation sets in. It may, however, happen that the stricken limb, though cold, pulseless, and insensible, shows no symptom of crushing either of the hard or soft parts. Under such circumstances, La- motte, who mentions similar cases, has recom- mended the employment of numerous scarifi- cations, after which he applied stimulating poultices. In a day or two, the heat and sensibility returned, or if not, the symptoms of gangrene becoming manifest, the conduct to be adopted could be no longer doubtful. The chief indications in treatment of con- tusions are, to oppose the progress of the effu- sion into the cellular tissue, to prevent or moderate the inflammation which may arise, and to promote the absorption of the extrava- sated fluids. The first is effected by means of cold appli- cations, (among which may be enumerated the vegeto-mineral water, the vinegar or camphor- water, alcohol and water, or common water containing salt, alum, nitre, muriate of ammo- nia, or the sulphate of iron or zinc in solution,) direct pressure, and absolute rest. The se- cond, by general or local bleeding by means of leeches or scarification, fomentations, and the antiphlogistic regimen. The third, by blisters, embrocations, liniments, effusions of cold water, gentle frictions, or champooing and