BLOOD-LETTING. 480 moved from the immediate vicinity of a dis- eased organ, and revulsive, when the blood is removed from vessels situated at a distance from the diseased part, such as by leeches applied to the feet, in affections of the head, chest, or abdomen. Local blood-letting.—Strictly speaking, there are few parts of the body from which blood can be abstracted locally, for blood taken by leeches or cupping from the integuments covering a diseased organ, often comes from vessels which are not ramifications of, and have no direct communication with, the vessels of the diseased organ. Thus, blood taken from any of the branches of the external carotid, as the temporal arteries in the treatment of dis- eases of the encephalon, cannot be considered as local bleeding, from the distant and circuit- ous connexion those vessels have with the in- ternal carotids. Neither, for like reasons, can blood taken from the parietes of the chest or abdomen, be considered as strictly local bleed- ing in affections of the thoracic or abdominal viscera. The opening of a vein in the arm abstracts blood more directly from the jugular veins and encephalon, as well as the superior and inferior cavae, than leeching or cupping the integuments of the temples, forehead, thorax, or abdomen. General bleeding is, therefore, a more local mode of taking away blood in the treatment of various affections of the brain, and of the thoracic and abdominal viscera, than that which is usually resorted to, and commonly considered, as local blood- letting. Local or topical bleeding, strictly so called, can, indeed, be employed only on a few organs, and in a few parts of the body. In the treat- ment of diseases within the cranium, topical bleeding can be accomplished by taking blood from the ethmoidal vessels, or from the frontal vessels, both of which come from the encephalon. It may be also taken from the vessels behind the mastoid pro- cess of the temporal bone, the artery being a branch of the occipital, which goes to the dura mater, and the veins communicating directly with the lateral sinus. As the frontal artery is a ramification of the ophthalmic, and as the ophthalmic artery comes from the inter- nal carotid; and passes through the orbit to reach the forehead, blood taken from that vessel, must be, strictly speaking, a more local bleeding in diseases of the head and globe of the eye, than blood taken from the temporal artery—the temporal artery being a branch of the external carotid. On this account, in diseases of the head, as well as in diseases of the eye, more particu- larly those affecting the internal parts of the globe, leeches applied on the frontal vessels, give much more relief than can be obtained by abstracting an equal quantity of blood from the temporal vessels, by leeches applied to the temples. Leeches applied to the septum of the nose, may also be considered as a local bleed- ing in diseases of the encephalon, for in such cases the blood comes from the ethmoidal vessels, which are branches of the internal carotids, which pass through the cribriform plate of the ethmoid bone, and ramify on the Schneiderian membrane. I have frequently known cases of affections of the head, which, after resisting general bleeding, and also the application of leeches on the head, were in- stantly relieved by the escape of even a few drops of blood from the nose. The effect of losing a small quantity of blood locally, is, in- deed, often surprising. Of this I might give some remarkable illustrations. An instance of this kind occurred in a lady, who, after em- ploying local and general bleeding for a dis- order in her head,applied to an itinerant, cele- brated for curing headachs. He introduced an instrument into the nose, by which he wounded the Schneiderian membrane, and pro- duced a flow of blood ; and the evacuation which followed, completely cured the head- achs. It was in a case of this kind that Galen acquired much renown, by prognosticating that a person would have a flow of blood from the nose, by which the affection of the head would be relieved *. I have had many opportunities of testing the comparative advantages of the different methods of abstracting blood locally in affec- tions of the head ; and I am fully persuaded that the application of leeches, on the lining membrane of the nose, is to be preferred in 1 The good effect of the application of leeches on the Schneiderian membrane may be illustrated by nume- rous examples. A lady had long suffered from head- achs. I advised leeches to be applied within the nose. One was accordingly applied on each side of the septum, and the headachs were permanently relieved. Another lady, after severe mental affliction, com- plained of uneasiness in the head, for which blood- letting was employed. She had frequent returns of the headach, and was always relieved by depletion, leeches being sometimes applied behind the ear, on the temples, or on the feet. On one occasion, when a sense of fulness continued in the frontal region, even after the usual means had been resorted to, I advised her to apply a couple of leeches to the nasal septum, and the bleeding had the happy effect of completely reliev- ing her head. Subsequently she had occasional re- turns of headach, and she found that a small bleeding from the nose never failed to give a more decided re- lief than she had ever obtained from any other mode of blood-letting. A young girl had suffered from pain in the forehead for upwards of a twelvemonth. It varied in degree, but never ceased altogether. Her countenance was pale and languid, and the integuments covering the lachrymal sac, and conjunctiva, of the same side, were much inflamed. Besides purgatives she had leeches ap- plied twice behind the ears, but without obtaining relief. One was soon after applied on the nasal septum, and repeated six times, at short intervals. The last leech caused a bleeding, which continued for twenty-four hours, after which she never again suffered from head- achs, her general health wa3 completely restored, and the local inflammation subdued. It is worthy of re- mark here, that the quantity of blood, which sometimes flows from the bite of a single leech, when applied to the septum of the nose is very considerable ; so much so, that I never recommend more than one to be ap- plied at once; and should the loss of blood be insuffi- cient, another leech can then be used on the opposite side.