587 CALOMEL. of from two to four grains daily, with or with- out opium. In such cases Ricord recommends the following formula :— “ Pilules de Calomel composees. “ Calomel. 9j ; Pulv. Conii, Saponis, aa. 9ij. M. fiant pilulae viginti quatuor.—Dose, from one to six pills daily.” Some foreign physicians still entertain a horror of affecting the mouth in acute inflam- mation, and adminster calomel in repeated doses combined with purgatives. Burdoch almost idolizes a combination of calomel with nitre, which produces free purging but no salivation. There is a large class of acute inflamma- tions of no great intensity or danger, such as gonorrhaea', and sundry cases of erysipelas and of rheumatism ; and a still larger class of chronic affections of the skin, eye, and other parts, in which calomel is highly beneficial as an alterative: that is, when given so as to pro- duce a silent change upon the system ; to ex- tinguish feverishness, increase and rectify the secretions, equalize the circulation, and pro- mote absorption, without any one remarkable evacuation, and without affecting the mouth. For many of these cases, the Plummer’s pill is very popular and very useful. One pill, con- taining one grain of calomel, one grain of the red sulphuret of antimony, and two grains of guaiacum, is generally administered every night at bed-time. As a means of mercurialising the system for the cure of primary syphilis, calomel is not very frequently employed, because of its ten- dency to act on the bowels and reduce the strength. But many practitioners find it very useful in treating soldiers, railway-labourers, and other individuals of robust habits, whom the milder form of blue pill would not affect with sufficient quickness and energy. It is also sometimes given in very small doses in the congenital syphilis of infants. Of its utility in acute inflammations connected with consti- tutional syphilis and in small alterative doses in some forms of syphilitic cachexy, we need not speak in this place. About the latter end of the last century a Mr. Peter Clare recommended calomel to be rubbed on the inside of the cheeks as a means of affecting the system. It soon salivates, and unless the patient swallows his saliva, does not purge. But although not without its advan- tages, this method has fallen into utter disuse. More recently, Biett has administered it in a somewhat similar manner. He causes from eight to twenty grains mixed with starch to be used daily as snuff, and has found this plan very efficacious in tubercular and other syphi- litic eruptions on the skin. As a local application, calomel possesses 1 Although no one can more strongly reprobate the custom of salivating gonorrhoeal patients, after the manner formerly practised in the Borough hospitals, as narrated by Sir A. Cooper in his lectures, still I am sure that the administration of one or two grains of calomel every night is a most effectual way of shorten- ing the acuto stage of gonorrhcca, and of preventing protracted chordec. stimulant and alterative properties resembling those of the ammonio-chloride or white pre- cipitate, but milder. In the form of ointment, made with one drachm to an ounce of fresh lard, it is recom- mended by Ricord as a dressing for primary venereal sores of the Hunterian or indurated character ; it is also useful in porrigo favosa, prurigo senilis, impetigo, eczema, herpes cir- cinatus, sycosis, lepra, and other chronic cuta- neous affections, in which a mild stimulant is advisable. Mr. Pereira says, that if he “ were required to name a local agent pre-eminently useful in skin diseases, he should fix on this.” The following formula is recommended by Scarpa in leucoma :— “ fib Tutias pp. 3j ; Aloes Socot. pulv. gr. ij ; Calomel, gr. ij; Adipis Suillae 3 ft; Misce ; fiat unguentum.” In the form of powder, its applications have been manifold. It has been snuffed up the nostrils with benefit in ozena. It is some- times mixed with finely powdered sugar, and blown into the eye, to cause the absorption of nebulae ; a coarse practice, and not a very safe one. Dr. Fricke recommends it to be applied to the eye by means of a hair pencil one in twenty-four hours, in cases of nebulae and granular conjunctiva. He says that it produces very slight pain of no long duration, or even sometimes a sensation of cold, and that it greatly diminishes the intolerance of light in rheumatic ophthalmia. But in two cases it produced very disagreeable results, which, as the patients were taking iodine at the time, he ascribes to the formation of an iodide of mercury in the eye. Ricord says that the venereal eruption, which he denominates mu- cous tubercle, mucous pustule or flat pustule, is speedily removed by washing the parts twice a day with solution of chloride of soda, diluted so as to cause slight smarting, and sprinkling them afterwards with calomel. In croup, and in diphthente, a peculiar inflammation of the fauces with croupy exudation, calomel has been blown upon the diseased parts to stimu- late them to throw off the false membrane ; but with no very good results. It has also been used for the same purpose in a peculiar ulcerative affection of the skin, resembling diptherite in its characters, and epidemic in some parts of France. Mixed with honey, calomel has been used as a gargle in venereal sore throat ; and sus- pended in mucilage has been injected into the urethra in gonorrhoea, but with no great bene- fit. When combined with lime-water in the proportion of a drachm or two to a pint, calomel forms the lotto nigra, or black wash ; an admirable soothing cleansing application for venereal sores, and irritable or cachectic ulcers in general. For further notices respecting the modus operandi and employment of mercury gene- rally, consult the articles Inflammation, Mercury, Salivation, and Syphilis. The following works will be found to con- 12