ECTROPIUM. 71 Fig. 222. Fig. 222. The eyelid after the operation, a, A, line in which the margins of the wound are united by suture. Smart inflammation, requiring active treat- ment for its removal,—nausea and vomiting, demanding the use of opium and effervescing draughts,—premature removal, from accident, of one or more of the sutures,—and ulceration of the edges of the wounds,—are among the unfavourable occurrences which occasionally supervene to the operation. In bad cases of ectropium of the upper eye- lid, it may be doubted if this operation of Jager be calculated to effect the desired object with more certainty than the simpler methods detailed in this article. Certainly, in the case described and delineated by Drey- er, (whose figures are given above,) the cure could have been effected by a much milder operation. Dicffenhacli's Operation. — This is com- menced by extirpating the cicatrice and de- generated skin, the incisions being made so that a triangular wound may be left, having the base towards the margin of the eyelid. The tarsus, if present, is to be carefully pre- served ; but, if the whole eyelid is gone, whatever of the conjunctiva remains is to be detached from the margin of the orbit, and dissected up a little towards the eyeball, in order that it may afterwards be adapted as a lining to the new eyelid. From the outer extremity of the base of the triangular wound, an incision through the skin is to be carried towards the temple ; the length of which incision must be somewhat greater than that of the base of the triangular wound of the eyelid. Beginning at the temporal extremity of this horizontal incision, another is to be made—downwards, if it is the lower eyelid which is to be restored,—upwards, if the upper eyelid. This second incision is to run not quite parallel with the outer edge of the triangular wound, but slightly approximating to its apex, on a level with which it is to terminate. The flap of skin thus circumscribed is to be raised up by dissection, along with its subja- cent layer of fat and cellular tissue. After the bleeding has ceased, the flap and the tri- angular wound are to be carefully freed from coagula, and the former so transposed that it may fill up the latter. The flap is now to be secured in its new situation, first by a stitch at the inner angle of the eye. Its upper edge is then to be united by four stitches to the tarsus, if present; or, if this has been lost, with the conjunctiva, at its cut margin. Lastly, the inner edge of the flap is united to the skin, forming the inner boundary of the triangular wound by means of the twisted suture. The wound in the temple, left by the removal of the flap of skin, is to be dressed with charpie ; and, over the whole, several strips of adhesive plaister are laid, in order to keep the transposed flap closely applied in its new situation. Cold-water dressings are then to be applied. Fig. 223. This method of operating has been success- fully followed by Lisfranc, Ammon, Eckstrom, Blasius, and Fricke '. Instead of taking the flap wholly from one side, a part may be taken from one side and a part from the other. The two parts are then to be united in the middle by the hare-lip suture. This is said to be the manner in which Dieffenbach ordinarily performs the operation for ectropium of the lower eyelid 2. The above plans of operating may be modi- fied and combined in different ways, according to the circumstances of any particular case. It has been mentioned, that it sometimes happens that, from bad cicatrices, the skin of the temple is much contracted, and the ex- ternal commissure, together with the outer parts of the lids, everted in consequence. In such a case, Walther3 excised the tarsal edges of both eyelids where they were everted, together with the commissure and a triangular piece of the neighbouring integument of the 1 Ammon’s Zeitschrift fur die Ophtlialmologie, Bd. iv. and v. Heidelberg, 1835-6.— Staub, de Blepharoplastice; Berolini, 1835. Sec also Mackenzie, ut supra 2 See Review of Zeis’s Handbuch der plastisehen Chirurgie, in the British and Foreign Medical Review, vol. vii. p. 406. London, 1839. 3 Ectropium Anguli Oculi Externi, eine neue Augenkranklicit, und die Tarsorapbia, cine neue Augcnopcration, in Graefe und Walther’s Journal dcr Chirurgie und Augenhcilkundc, Bd. ix. p. 86.