ANKLE. 293 with certainty that the mercurial ointment has no other effect than that oi soiling the linen in simple erysipelas, and that its efficacy in angeioleueitis is very doubtful. I subjoin the plan of treatment which has appeared to me to be the most successful. If any wound exist, whether it be recent or of long standing, it is covered with a thick poul- tice : if there be any arterial reaction, recourse is had to general bleeding ; the quantity abs- tracted to be somewhat considerable ; to be followed up by the use of a tepid bath for an hour; twenty or thirty leeches are applied round the wound, when it appears red and swollen. After these means, compression with a roller will be of use ; its action will be promoted by wetting it several times during the day with some resolvent fluid. Cold wa- ter perhaps would answer very well in this way. If compression is not followed by the desired effect, mercurial inunction is indicated. The plan I pursue is to have two drachms rubbed in three times in twenty-four hours, over the entire extent of, and a little beyond, the painful region. When the skin becomes surcharged with the ointment, it is easy to clear it again by means of a little oil, and then a second bath is taken. As soon as any fluc- tuation can be detected, no matter how ob- scure at any point, the bistouri must be made use of at once, all these abscesses requiring to be largely and promptly opened. At this stage, recourse may again be had to poultices over the suppurating points, and to compres- sion, if the form of the part will allow it. When resolution does not take place, and the suppuration is tardy, it will be right to em- ploy blisters. They may be applied in suc- cession, or simultaneously over the points where the inflammation was most intense, and which are still the most engorged. The larger the blisters, the more certain their good effects, acting either as the best maturatives, or the best resolvents that I know of. In many such cases, I can speak decidedly as to their good effects; having succeeded, in a little time, by means of them, either in dispersing or producing suppuration in masses which seemed to be unalterably indurated. When there is delirium, or great agitation, I also employ them from the beginning ; arranging them in such a manner as to cover over the whole of the diseased, together with some of the sound parts. They are removed in twenty-four hours with the epiderm, and the exposed parts are powdered with camphor, in order to protect the urinary passages. The dressing is completed with simple ointment spread on bibulous paper. Mercurial inunction and compression may be conjoined with these means after a few days. A purgative every third or fourth day, for a week or two, towards the decline of the disease, will be found useful. But medicines of this class should be carefully avoided if diarrhoea or other signs of visceral irritation be present. At a still later period, when the wounds cease to suppurate, it is sometimes imperative to have recourse to friction with the ioduretted ointment, on account of the doughyness and induration which often per- sist in several points. Frictions, with small quantities of mercurial ointment, deserve the preference when the induration is extensive ; and compression would be still better when it is possible to apply it. The use of the tepid bath is of great value. It need scarcely be added, that from beginning to end, the parts should be kept at rest, and that the regimen and diluents should be regulated according to the state of the bowels, and the degree of general reaction. The wounds, ulcers, and eschars resulting from angeioleueitis require the same treatment as under any other cir- cumstances. Chronic angeioleueitis.—In the chronic form, the inflammation of the lymphatic vessels pre- sent characters so very different from those of the acute angeioleueitis, that it is every where described under other appellations. As it forms, at least, an element, if not the principal lesion in a vast number of the chro- nic diseases of the skin, it will come more properly into the description of those dis- eases, but more especially in that of Elephan- tiasis. (AIf. A. L. iff. Velpeau.') ANKLE,SURGICAL ANATOMY OF. This word has seldom been clearly defined by anatomists or lexicographers, and for this reason has often been imperfectly understood or improperly employed1. 1 Dr. Hooper and Dr. Joseph Fox have omitted this word in their Medical Dictionaries; Dr. Rees’s Cyclopaedia Britannica, and Dr. Todd’s Cyclopaxlia of Anatomy, both commence the article thus: “Ankle, Surgical Anatomy op, Joint of,” &e. without ex- plaining the meaning of that word. In popular lan- guage, this expression is often applied to the lowest and thinnest part of the leg, just above the malleole ; more frequently it is used to denote the joint which unites the leg to the foot. This is Dr. Nathan Bailey’s and Dr. S. Johnson’s definition. Wiseman, one of our best early chirurgical waiters, often employs it in this sense, and his example has been followed, more or less, down to the present day; nevertheless, this ex- pression, which is as clear as it is precise, has been rendered obscure by authors applying it to the malle- oli, and distinguishing them by the expression of outer and inner ankles. Wiseman and other authors make use of a still more objectionable expression,— such, for instance, as Ankle-bone, Ankle-bones. With a view, no doubt, of putting an end to all ambi- guity, medical writers formed the compound word Ankle-joint, which is also an imperfect denomination. Ankle, according to its most common acceptation, meaning the tibio-tarsal articulation, it is evident that ankle-joint gives no additional strength or precision to the word, but, on the contrary, merely commits tau- tology; it is the same as saying, the joint of the joint which unites the leg to the foot: this word has ano- ther inconvenience; it supposes a difference between ankle and ankle-joint, which difference is nowhere to be found. The origin of this word is also unsettled : according to Samuel Johnson it is derived from the Anglo-Saxon ancleop, or from the Dutch anckel. As Johnson, however, was totally ignorant of all the Northern European languages, but slight reliance can be placed on his Teutonic derivations ; as regards the word ankle, Dr. Johnson differs with Bailey, who says that it is taken from Anglo-Saxon ancleop, or