674 CANCER. by the action of the muscular fibres. These occurrences are at first only occasional—a circumstance which tends in some cases to keep alive the hope that the patient suffers from spasmodic stricture only. But the dys- phagia eventually becomes permanent, and the obstruction increases to such a degree that not a particle of solid or even liquid food reaches the stomach. Sometimes a dilated pouch forms above the obstruction—here the food accumulates, and is rejected with labo- rious effort after a variable lapse of time. The ingesta are under these circumstances usually mixed with glairy mucous matter, which is, according to Bayle, never tinged with brown- ish fluid, and is thus distinguishable from the substances vomited in cancerous disease of the stomach. In a remarkable case related by Mr. Burton1 exemplifying this condition, the patient, a man aged 43, had for twenty years been subject to attacks, lasting three weeks or more at a time, during which no food directly reached the stomach. Post- mortem examination disclosed a huge pouch extending from two inches below the pharynx to the cardia, and containing two measured quarts of grumous matter and fluid: the cardia was pervious but much contracted. This person had been in the habit of allowing the ingesta to accumulate in the sac for hours or even days; when it was completely filled, he made efforts at swallowing, by which the contents were forced on to the stomach. For the last six weeks of his life he was reduced to the support of nutritious injections. The progress of the disease is accompanied with pain, the seat of which indicates, in some rare cases, with much precision, that of the morbid formation. In others the suffering is referred to the entire length of the canal, or is felt in the back, in the shoulders, or in the arms. The extension of the pain in this manner is by Bayle supposed to depend on the formation of adhesions between the can- cer and the adjacent parts. Deglutition is frequently accompanied with pain shooting along the fauces to the base of the skull and through the eustachian tube to the ear. Patients afflicted with cancer of the oesopha- gus usually perish, as those whose pharynx is similarly diseased, by inanition : the cachexia is commonly well established. They are ex- posed to the chances of severe haemorrhage. Perforation of the diseased tube, with effusion of the ingesta into the mediastinum, determin- ing an abscess in that region ; the establish- ment of a communication between the oesopha- gus and the trachea, bronchi, pleura, or pul- monary tissue, not very unfrequently shorten the patient’s days. Yet the existence of such communication with the lung is not incom- patible with the continuance of life : M. Moutard-Martin2 has published a singular case wherein a large cavity, formed in the lung (though partly empty it contained six 1 Med. and Pbys. Journ. vol. xlvi. p. 540. 1823. 2 Bibl. Med. t. xxxiv. p. 85. 1811. ounces of whitish-grav grumous matter) com- municated freely with the oesophagus ; the food, entering into it with facility, regularly accumulated in this adventitious stomach. Among the diseases simulating carcinoma- tous contraction is spasmodic stricture, an ex- ceedingly rare affection, but one capable of temporarily obstructing deglutition quite as completely. The sudden occurrence of the complaint, its induction by moral causes or by adjacent irritation, its almost constant accom- paniment by nervous symptoms, and the suc- cess of antispasmodic and dilating treatment sufficiently characterize this species of dys- phagia ; sudden supervention of the symp- toms is not, however, conclusive of the spas- modic nature of the affection. Chronic in- flammation leading to hypertrophy and indura- tion of the walls of the oesophagus is an affec- tion of much less common occurrence than has been supposed by some writers, and seems hardly to originate except as an effect of the ingestion of poisons ; in this case the history of the individual will prevent error'. A patient, observed by Bayle, perished some months after swallowing nitric acid ; two or three inches of the lower third of the oesopha- gus were so contracted, that a quill could scarcely be passed through it; the walls were in a state of chronic hypertrophy with in- duration, which differed from scirrhous infil- tration in wanting its homogeneous shining and semi-transparent aspect. A curious case of constriction of the oesophagus which ap- pears to have been congenital, is related by M. Cassan2. The diameter of the tube was reduced to a French line, yet there was not the least morbid change of tissue ; the lower part of the pharynx formed a huge pouch containing chymous matter. The subject of this disease had not been seriously incom- moded by it until the last year of his life, lived to about 77, and had generally enjoyed excellent health : these circumstances would have distinguished the case from cancer. Dysphagia from paralysis of the muscular tunic may be recognised by the absence of pain and the facility with which a probang may be passed into the stomach. The ob- struction caused by the pressure of mediasti- nal tumours, of aneurism of the large vessels, &c. may be distinguished by the physical signs furnished by the contents of the thorax. The exact seat of the disease is to be ascer- tained by the feelings of the patient; some- times by the discovery of an indurated mass in the neck in the course of the tube; better by the probang or wax bougie. In some cases the employment of bougies of gradually increasing diameter has distinctly retarded the fatal issue of the disease, but this cannot be regarded as more than palliative under any circumstances. The introduction of an cesophagus-tube may be necessary for ' C. Bell, Surg. Obs. vol. i. p. 82. 1816. Robert, Nmiv. Bibl. Med. t. iv. p. 415. 1827. 3 Archives dc Med. t. x. p. 79. 1826.