CEPHALHEMATOMA. 758 have something to do with it: Burchard him- self suggests that it may have been in his cases, as often occurs in the situation of the parietal bones,an abnormal congenital foramen, known in Germany as Osiander’s fontanelles. These cases are, however, exceptional ones, nor can any general inference respecting the state of the bone, where no perforation has occurred, be drawn from them. Burchard further states his having ascertained by micros- copical examination, conducted with Prof. Perkinje, that the medullary canaliculi of the bone are dilated, and the osseous fibri's swollen. The state of the internal surface of the bone requires more examination than has yet been given it. Burchard says it presents an abnormal aspect,—that it is even in some instances de- stroyed ; M. Valleix, that it is invariably healthy : the former most probably refers to cases of co-existing internal cephalhsematoma; the latter seems to express an a priori opinion. The sensation of an elevated and hardened rim, experienced in examining the edges of these tumours, and supposed by Michaelis to be caused by the deficiency of the external table, is found to be produced by a distinct bony ridge, of adventitious growth, in the ma- jority of cases surrounding the entire of the effusion ; in others, wanting in the vicinity of the sutures. This production is evidently un- connected with the subjacent bone as respects its cause,—in other words, is not a mere thickening of some portion of this, for it may be easily detached therefrom either with the finger or a scalpel, and the bone is found to exhibit its natural convexity underneath. Its vertical section is triangular; its inner face generally perpendicular to the surface of the cranium, the external sloped oft'; its height, varying in different points, rarely exceeds a line and a half (Fr.), and its dimensions are not proportional to the bulk of the swelling. Its structure varies, but it seems usually to be composed of a friable material, produced by the union of osseous granules and a reddish liquid, covered with a thin stratum of compact substance. It does not cause any visible ele- vation of the border of the tumour before the removal of the integuments. This de- scription is borrowed from the work of M. Valleix. M. Valleix never discovered any laesion in the vascular system of the skull outside the limits of the effusion, and was informed by Dieft'enbach that he had frequently injected the vessels in indubitable cases of cephalhas- matoma without finding them torn. Dr. Burchard asserts that they always present a peculiar morbid aspect proper to the affec- tion ; this, however, he has not attempted to describe. The contents of the tumour vary in quantity and quality. It has been found to contain so little as a scruple, and so much as upwards of seven ounces of blood. The latter is either fluid, coagulated, or “ gelatino-fibrous,” as observed by Burchard, who ascertained that, as might have been expected, its condition depended on the length of time it had been effused. When an incision was practised early, florid, arterial-looking blood escaped, and a new accumulation, of which the materials sometimes coagulated in twenty-four hours, followed : the viscidity of the fluid was proportional to the tardiness of incision. In the cases examined after death the blood was described to have been in great part absorbed, and the remainder reduced to a plastic gelatinous mass, or transformed into “ bony ” substance. The fluid is inodorous. We have seen that sub-pericranial may be complicated with intra-cranial cephalhaema- toma; and it is not very uncommon to find scalp swellings (sero-sanguineous oedema) co- existing with it. Twelve of Burchard’s forty- five patients presented this combination; in two instances the oedematous swelling was double, in nine seated on the same parietal as the cephalhffimatoma, in five on the opposite one; in several cases the effusion of blood did not take place until the oedema had disappeared, in some both occurred simultaneously. The contradictory opinions held on the anatomical condition of the parts in this affec- tion leads us to expect anything but harmony on the subject, or its causes and mechanism. Numerous observers contend that it is caused by violence directly applied to the part during protracted labour, either from impaction (Feiler), or pressure against the sides of the pelvis (C. C. Klein); or from contusion with the forceps, &c. (F. B. Osiander.) But these practitioners, and others who have adopted very similar notions, have doubtless confounded the affection, which we now de- scribe, with common oedematous scalp-swell- ings ; for accurate observation has proved that it occurs most frequently after easy labour, during which the head has not undergone any notable pressure. Not a single one of Naegele’s cases occurred after laborious parturition ; Meissner, Hiiter, and Valleix have observed it in infants extracted by the feet ; it has been found in the second born of twins presenting the breech ; and we have seen how frequently its existence has been ascertained before or immediately after the rupture of the mem- branes. Hence the opinion referring the affection to severe pressure or contusion is untenable. Michaelis ascribes the effusion to the exposure of the diploe resulting from the carious destruction of the external table ; of this opinion we have already seen the error. Naegele vaguely refers the rupture of vessels to abnormal development of the bone ; Meiss- ner and Neumann to displacement or riding of the bones of the scalp during labour; Brandau to a congenital relaxed state of the vessels of the head ; Stein fancies the disease produced by an abnormal disposition of the vessels; Siebold by a state of the vascular system of the bone analogous to the aneurism by anastomosis of the soft parts. All fliesc notions are cither clearly shown to be incor-