212 ANEURISM. Number of Aneurisms.—Though it seldom happens that there is more'than one aneurism in any individual, there are cases where many aneurismal tumours have been found after death. Dessault saw a man who had six aneu- risms, and Delpech found no less than sixty in one individual. Such cases, however, are ex- tremely rare, and though almost in every aneurismal patient many portions of different arterial trunks are usually found diseased, yet it seldom happens that the tunics have given way so as to form an aneurism at more than one place. Fig. 61. Fig. Cl is are outline of a large aneurism of the axillary artery (a), immediately contiguous to which, and on its cardiac side there is a smaller swelling [b), which, not being recognised before an attempt was made to pass a ligature round the artery, was the the cause of the impracticability and danger of the operation. Progress.—In this respect there is great variety, not only as to the duration of the dis- ease, but also as to the condition of the tumour itself. The progress of an aneurismal tumour is hastened or retarded by a great number of circumstances, and may therefore occupy many months, or even years. As regards the con- dition of the tumour, it may retain an uniform spherical appearance to the last, or, as it ad- vances, it may become irregular, knobbed, and appear to be made up of several tumours formed in succession, according to the various degrees of resistance the different parts of its surface may have to encounter. Dehaen states, that he had seen a case of aneurism which had been progressing for a number of years; while Hodgson, on the other hand, describes a case in which the disease ran through all its stages with extraordinary rapi- dity.—“ An old man, who uniformly enjoyed good health, whilst walking in the street, was attacked with a sudden pain, and immediately perceived a small swelling in the middle of the right thigh. The pain increased, the swelling became larger, and in a few hours the whole limb was cedematous. The tumour was compressible, but no pulsation could be discovered in it until a short time before death, when an indistinct thrill was perceptible. He became extremely feeble, the swelling in- creased, and he died in three weeks from its first appearance. A quantity of grumous blood was found amongst the muscles of the thigh, which were separated to a considerable extent, so as to form a large cavity on the anterior surface of the triceps. The femoral artery communicated with this sac by a small round opening not larger than the calibre of the vessel. This opening was evidently the mouth of a small aneurismal sac, which had suddenly burst, and given rise to the dif- fused extravasation, for the dilated and rup- tured coats of the vessel were seen at the bottom of the cavity, reflected upon the ex- ternal surface of the artery. The original sac could not have been larger than a pea, and was formed by a partial dilatation of the coats of the vessel, which were throughout much thickened, and covered with calcareous mat- ter Sex.—Aneurisms are much more frequently met with in men than in women, for whilst the sedentary habits of the female render her frame more particularly subject to certain diseases, aneurism, being usually caused by some violent muscular exertion, might be an- ticipated to befall men much more frequently, not only from their avocations, but also from the circumstance that the arterial system is in them much more liable to disease. Age.—Patients most usually affected with aneurisms are neither the very young, nor those far advanced in life. Those diseased states of the tunics of an artery which lead to the formation of an aneurism, are not often met with in young people; whilst the aged are seldom exposed to those great mus- cular exertions which by causing the coats of a diseased vessel to give way, lead immedi- ately to the formation of an aneurism. Diagnosis.—In the early stage of an ex- ternal aneurism, its true nature is easily de- tected, but in a more advanced state, when it has attained a considerable magnitude, ■when the pulsations have become more in- distinct, and when pressure produces no per- ceptible change in its volume, it is then often no easy matter to form a correct diagnosis. Under these circumstances, the history of the case must be the chief guide in ascertaining its nature. If the origin and progress of the disease have been such as in those cases we have already described as characteristic of aneurism, an opinion can then be formed with confidence. But it seldom happens that an account sufficiently clear can be obtained from the patient, to leave no doubt as to the true nature of the disease, and the difficulty is much increased when the tumour itself does not present any of the pathognomonic symptoms of aneurism. Thus, an aneurism has frequent ly been mistaken for an abscess, been laid open, and a fatal haemorrhage has followed. Old aneurisms, too, have often been mistaken for swellings of a quite different nature, and tu- mours situated in the vicinity of large arteries which had the pulsations of the contiguous arteries communicated to them, have also been mistaken for aneurisms. An aneurism, how- ever, may be distinguished from a tumour which is situated on the course of an artery by the history of the disease, and likewise by the character of the pulsations. Whilst an aneurism commences as a soft tumour, which disappears when subjected to pressure, most 1 Hodgson, p. 71.