AMPUTATION. 137 as to leave them of different lengths. From the anatomical structure of these layers, the moment they are divided they shorten to dif- ferent degrees, but all more or less by the effect of their own contractility ; so that the surface of the stump is not at the place, taken on the bone, where they are divided, but at the place to which they retract, or at which their cut ends remain after they have retracted. For example: a muscle covering, from its upper end to the place where it is to be divided, twelve inches of bone, will cover much less (say nine or ten) after its division. Inas- much, then, as the layers shorten to different degrees, and must have different lengths after shortening, (the superficial or cutaneous one requiring to be left long enough to wrap over the cut ends of all the others, as well as the bone) it is absolutely necessary, for the for- mation of a good stump, to divide them layer by layer, and to make at least as many circu- lar incisions as there are distinct layers1. If the different layers were of a nature to re- tract exactly to the same degree, and required to be of the same length after their retraction, one circular incision would be sufficient to divide them ; it would be necessary to wind the knife only once round the limb, and to cut through them all, from the skin to the bone, at one sweep. But as they require to be left of different lengths, and as they are not retractile to the same degree, each layer must be cut through separately. In determining, then, how the section of the soft parts should be made, we must be guided by the number of layers it is necessary to distinguish in them, by the degree to which each will retract on being divided, and by the length each ought to preserve after retraction. In general, three layers require to be dis- tinguished : the skin and subcutaneous cellu- lar tissue form one ; the muscles, not attached to the bone near the place of amputation, con- stitute the second ; and those which are so attached make the third2. The skin with its cellular tissue retracts, of itself, but little; so that the quantity of this membrane required to form the surface of the stump will indicate, pretty nearly, the place at which it should be divided. It ought al- ways to be left rather full than scanty. Per- haps a better general rule cannot be given than to leave it longer than the bone, by half that diameter of the limb to which the line of cica- trix is to be perpendicular. Muscles retract according to the length of their fibres, mea- sured from the place of their attachment to that where they are to be cut through : the greater this length, the more they retract. The first, or superficial layer of muscles being composed of those of the longest fibres, re- 1 Alanson’s ingenious device for effecting the de- sired object by one incision is not practicable. 2 Authors usually employ the terms “ superficial” and “ deep” to distinguish the two layers of muscles; hut these do not give a sufficiently exact notion of what is meant. tract much more than the second or deep layer. But as the muscular structure is some- what different in this respect, in the thoracic and abdominal limbs, and in various parts of the same limb, precise directions can only be given as to the place where the layers should be divided, in the description of each par- ticular amputation. We may premise, how- ever, that the superficial layer must be cut through much farther from the trunk than the deep one, and that the surgeon should always take as a guide the anatomy of the muscles he has to deal with. If the muscles are left of such length that by closing the wound, those of one side can be easily made to meet those of the other side of the limb, between the end of the bone and the skin, they will be of the proper length for the formation of a good stump ; and, although there are many amputations in which this rule cannot be strictly followed, it should al- ways be the aim of the surgeon to adhere to it as closely as possible. The quantity of integuments preserved should vary somewhat according to tneir state of tonicity; a fourth or fifth less will be required when they are flabby than when firm and elastic. The same re- mark applies, in some measure, although less strictly, to the muscles. By whatever incisions the parts are divided, they should be cut through, so that the entire section shall be perpendicular to the longitu- dinal axis of the limb ; otherwise, the weight the stump may have to bear would not be equally distributed, but press unduly on what- ever part projected beyond the level. We shall now describe the different plans that have been proposed for performing ampu- tation by the circular method, beginning with that generally adopted at the present time. Modern plan.—The plan approved by a great number—probably the great majority— of our contemporaries, is that most in confor- mity with what has just been stated regarding the order and manner in which the parts should be divided. It may be described as follows :— When the surgeon has ascertained that all is ready, that the instruments are at hand, that the circulation is well attended to, and that the patient and assistants are properly placed, he should direct one of the latter to grasp the limb with both hands firmly, about a hand’s breadth above the place where he intends to make his first incision, and another to support steadily the part about to be re- moved. Both these assistants, especially the latter, should place themselves in an easy posture, so that they can support the limb steadily during the whole time of the opera- tion. Standing on the right or left of the patient, according to the part to be amputated, the operator should place himself in such an attitude, as to be able to stoop and rise steadi- ly, by bending and extending himself without moving his feet. To perform the operation dexterously, he must not be moving about, or placed in an awkward position. Holding the