ADHESION. 54 contact. Inflammation, in case of wounds, would as readily extend over the surface of each cell as air does through the cavity of each cell when blown into. Now this simple and natural contact of parts keeps the inflam- mation from spreading beyond the cut edges of exposure, and the inflammation only takes place at this part to preserve this contact. . . The cause ot the limitation of the inflamma- tion is the simple contact; this contact ren- ders the sides of the cavity perfect again, and sets bounds to the immediate cause.” Hunter, Op. cit. pp. 310, 311. There is therefore a remarkable tendency in serous membranes, as shown in numberless instances, to limit inflammation, or to circum- scribe its effects. This, Hunter regards as a purely defensive effort of the constitution. Upon the first occurrence of irritation in serous surfaces, the lymph, by which the con- tiguous parts are joined, exudes from them in the same manner as it exudes from the lips of a wound. Cruveilhier has observed that the lymph is firmest at the circumference of the exudation, being spongy and porous towards the centre; and hence he infers that the blood, pus, or membranous flakes, like the globules of pus, which we sometimes find in the midst of a coagulum, are not secreted in that situation, but percolated by capillarization through these porous membranes from the serous surfaces. It was long thought that these productions were not organic, but merely served the pur- pose of a medium through which the vessels were carried from one side of the inflamed membrane to the other ; but this notion is now justly abandoned. The provisional state of the exudation, upon which this idea was founded, is now known to be transitory ; it gives place to a fully organized state of this new substance, induced by means exactly similar to those which are observed in the developement of the placenta, a state in which it is supplied with vessels capable of being injected. The same observation as to the distribution and character of these vessels, which Home made respecting granulations, may be repeated here ; a trunk sends off an arborescence of capillaries from both ends towards the circumference of the adventitious membrane, a miniature representation of the portal circulation ; these vessels are exclu- sively venous. “ I never,” said Cruveilhier, “ found arterial vessels in organized false membranes. They could serve no purpose, since their capillary venous system communi- cates with the generally capillary venous sys- tem, and, consequently, with the torrent of the circulation ; and this fact is in accordance with experiments which have convinced me that the venous system is the immediate seat of secretion, inflammation, and nutrition.” These adhesions are produced in great va- riety, depending chiefly upon the degree of mobility of the parts in which they are deve- loped. Sometimes the union is so close and intimate that there seems to be scarcely any interposed layer; at others, the bands are prolonged and broken into cells, or numerous slips. Several observations prove that they sometimes disappear in consequence of being ruptured in this process of elongation. It is by this process that the cure of artificial anus is effected ; for if the parallelism of the two ends of the intestine, adhering to the abdo- minal wall, where the preternatural opening exists, were to continue, the re-establishment of the course of the faecal matter through the lower portion of the intestine could not take place ; it is by the elongation of the adhesion from every point of its attachment, that the curve of the intestine may be restored, and that the opening in the side of the intestine is gradually lessened till it closes completely. In one of Dupuytren’s cases of artificial anus, through which the faecal matter was dis- charged only for twelve days, an opportunity occurred for examining the parts, the woman dying seven months after. The portion of the intestine in which the accidental opening had existed, and which it was expected would have been found adherent to the cicatrix, was four inches from it. A long band of mem- brane, broad at both ends, and almost as small as a thread in the centre, connected the pa- rietal cicatrix with the intestine; this band did not communicate with the cavity of the intestine. M. Ribes states that he had not been able to find the slightest trace of adhe- sion in his examinations of the bodies of sol- diers, who had, at periods remote from the time of their death, received wounds in the abdomen ; the traction which the point of adhesion must have been constantly exposed to, from the peristaltic motion of the intes- tines, will perhaps account for this circum- stance. Having premised these observations on the adhesions of serous membranes in general, we shall now study them as they oc- cur in each serous cavity in particular. Adhesions in the jdeurce:—These are the most frequent of all, and are found in the bodies of half the adults that are opened. They are often produced without any symp- tom of pain. They result however almost certainly from inflammation of the pleura. When they are so extensive as to impede the full expansion of the lungs, the latter diminish in size, and the walls of the thorax fall in gradually in proportion to the diminution. When a lung shrinks under the pressure of fluid effused into the cavity of the pleura, if an adhesion already exists, the adhesion is elongated, and may thus stretch across the cavity. When suppurative action has oc- curred on a point of the serous membrane, the pus is isolated by the production of orga- nized lymph, and may thus be eliminated through the bronchi, or through the intercos- tal spaces, a track being formed for it towards the surface. Collections of pus confined to a spot of serous membrane, and thus voided, are often met with in authors. It has been doubted in such cases whether the inflamma- tion first arose in serous membrane; but whether so or not, it is well ascertained that such adhesions between contiguous portions of a serous membrane may arise when the in-