FISTULA, URINARY. 231 is not only highly creditable to the skill, tact, and perseverance of Dr. Houston, but will prove a valuable example to other surgeons under circumstances of difficulty and discou- ragement In another case, in which the anormal communication proceeded from the urethra to the rectum, and in which all other treatment had failed, Sir A. Cooper, having passed a staff into the bladder, and introduced his linger into the rectum, made an incision on the left side of the raphe, as in lithotomy, sufficiently deep to allow of his feeling the staff through the bulb. He then divided the fistulous passage by a transverse incision between the prostate and rectum. The wound was kept open by means of a plug of lint. The urine wras thus diverted into this new channel, the fistulous track soon closed, and the wound healing also, the whole of the urine was voided by the urethra. This practice of making an incision into the lower or fixed part of the urethra, has recently received a new and judicious application in the hands of M. Ricord ; the object being in both cases the same, namely, to divert, for a time, the whole of the urine from the mor- bid into this artificial channel. M. Ricord had to deal with an opening in the urethra, anterior to the scrotum, in which situation, from the deficiency, thinness, and extreme mobility of the soft parts, openings are often extremely difficult to heal. He made an inci- sion into the membranous part of the urethra, and kept it open for the passage of the whole of the urine, until the opening in the spongy part of the urethra was entirely closed ; and he then healed the perineal opening without difficulty. It may be here added, that fistulas in this part of the urethra are cicatrized with comparative facility, owing to the abundance, and vascularity, and fixedness of the soft parts. Various methods had been tried in vain to heal this fistula ; amongst the rest, Dieffen- bach’s plan of running the suture round the fistulous opening, after the fashion of a purse string. The removal of the cause in urinary fistula is the chief indication ; and as urethral fistula in general coexists with stricture, the first step towards cure is to dilate the passage gradually, until its natural dimensions are restored, and in the great majority of instances this treatment will be sufficient. When the fistulous track still remains, it persists chiefly in consequence of the induration of the cellu- lar tissue, resulting from the long-continued iriitation of which it has been the seat, or from some portion of the urine still finding access to that channel. In such a case it will be advisable to draw off the urine three or four times a day, by means of a moderate sized catheter ; to com- bat the local inflammation by means of leeches, local warm bathing, poultices, &c., and to invigorate the patient by good living and wholesome air. If the fistula has been pro- duced, or is kept up, by the presence of a foreign body, nothing will avail until the foreign body is removed. Formerly it was very much the practice to leave the catheter for a long time in the ure- thra. Modern surgeons are more circumspect on this point, and prefer the introduction of the instrument, repeated as often as it may be necessary, unless the catheterism prove pain- ful and difficult, and there is a tendency in the catheter to pass into the fistulous track, which is often the case, when the fistula has been the consequence of a false passage. In cases where no stricture exists, as when the ulceration, above noticed, occurs in aged and debilitated subjects, the presence of a catheter would be productive of the worst consequences, by causing and keeping up irritation. It is, indeed, but seldom that anymore will be required for the successful treatment of urethral fistula, than the due employment of the catheter, and attention to cleanliness. In- cisions need be but rarely resorted to. Cases, however, do occur, especially where a loss of substance has taken place, in which the em- ployment of the knife, or of caustics, in the actual or potential form, are imperatively indi- cated. Let us suppose the fistula to persist, after the treatment by dilatation has been carried to its full extent. In this case recourse should be had to cauterization with the nitrate of silver, and the best mode of application is by injecting a solution of the salt up the fistulous track. Alcohol, vinegar, or the dilute mineral acids, may be employed in the same way. In a case in which the urethra had sloughed at the junction of the scrotum with the penis, and in which bougies, excoriation with blisters, paring of the fistulous edges, and the twisted suture, had been tried in vain, Sir A. Cooper effected a cure by applying nitrous acid to the edges of the wound, and to the surrounding skin, to the extent of three quarters of an inch. The fistulous opening having contracted to a considerable extent on healing, the appli- cation was renewed several times during the space of nine months, at the end of which time the cure was complete. In cases of this kind, when the surfaces are properly prepared for reunion, compression moderately and judi- ciously applied will be often found service- able. A knitting needle, or wire rod, heated to redness, will often effect the object in view, which is to destroy the adventitious membrane lining the fistula, and cause granulations to spring up and obliterate the accidental chan- nel. This practice is countenanced by the highest authorities, and is of easy and expe- ditious application. The fistulous track should be previously traversed as far as practicable with a probe, and a silver catheter should be kept in the urethra during the application of the cautery. If the persistence of the fistula depend on the existence of a suppurating cavity or pouch, it should be laid open, the incision gradually widening towards the skin, so as to leave a conical-shaped wound, which