FRACTURE. 297 nious contrivance, which procures such advan- tages and relief to the patient, by the uniform support it gives to the whole surface on which the body bears, in all cases in which, from the sinking of the vital powers, sloughs or ulcera- tions form over the sacrum, great trochan- ters, or other points where bony prominences approach the surface. The time occupied by the consolidation of a fracture is influenced by so many circum- stances, that it cannot be specified with any tolerable precision. The younger the sub- ject, the smaller the broken bone, the more simple the fracture, and the more vigorous the constitution of the patient, the shorter will the time be. We may expect in general, that in simple fractures of the upper extremity in a healthy adult, the consolidation will take place between the twenty-fifth and forty-fifth days after the fracture, and in those of the same character in the lower extremity, be- tween the fortieth, and sixtieth, or seventieth days. In every case, however, it is necessary, before removing the apparatus, to ascertain by actual examination,that the callus has acquired sufficient solidity to justify this measure. Let the limb be grasped above and below' the seat of the fracture, and let a moderate force be used, as if with the intention of bending or rupturing the callus. If it does not yield sensibly we may regard the consolidation as sufficiently perfect to admit of laying aside the splints, &c., and substituting a simple roller, for the purpose of preventing oedema of the limb. If the fracture is near a joint, more particularly when this is below the frac- ture, the surgeon should begin to give it passive motion, as soon as the callus is solid enough to enable him to do so with safety, for the purpose of preventing, or rather di- minishing, the rigidity of the joint consequent on the fracture. For two or three weeks after the removal of the splints no consider- able effort may be made with the limb. If the fracture has been in the lower extremity, the patient should remain in bed for that length of time, after the removal of the apparatus, and on first beginning to move about, should use crutches, not allowing the w'eight of the body to bear on the limb, and taking exercise on a level surface, neither so smooth as to be slippery, nor so unequal that he will run con- tinual risk of tripping. He may gradually increase the weignt he allows to bear on the injured limb. A sort of instinct, which he should pay respect to, will inform him if he is going too far. Treatment of Fractures which have become consolidated with considerable deformity.—We sometimes meet with cases in which fractures have, by some accident or neglect, become consolidated with such deformity as seriously to impair the functions of the limb. Our treatment of such cases will depend on the length of time that has elapsed since the occurrence of the fracture. M. Dupuytren established, and acted with success on the rule, that within the first sixty days after the fracture, the attempt should be made to re- move the deformity by mechanical force, with splints, compresses, and bandages, so applied as gradually to restore the displaced fragment to its natural relation with the other. This rule is founded upon his observations respecting the formation of callus. It will be recollected that I have stated above, that if we saw through the callus at the end of the third period of its formation, which extends to the fiftieth or sixtieth day, we find the fragments still moveable on one another; because the definitive callus is not yet formed, or, as I would rather express it, because a real bony union has not yet taken place between the old bone and the callus. We are taught by this valuable fact, that we may hope, up to this time, to correct any deformity that may have been permitted to take place, by mecha- nical force gradually and judiciously applied. M. Dupuytren relates several cases in which this was done with complete success, in his paper on the formation of callus, in the fourth volume of his Lepons Orales de Clinique Chi- rurgicale. In one of these cases his treat- ment dated from the fifty-ninth day after the fracture. As it may be necessary to employ a considerable degree of force,—much greater than wre use in the ordinary treatment of fractures,—we must carefully attend to the condition of the limb. If the apparatus is found to occasion severe pain, or diminution of the heat and sensibility of the low'er part of the limb, the bandage is too tightly applied, and should be relaxed wdthout delay. Before first applying the apparatus, and on every occasion of renewing the application of it, till the deformity is remedied, the surgeon should exercise considerable force with his own hands, tending to effect the reduction. Three or four days after the first application, if we are not obliged, by some of the just- mentioned accidents, to remove the apparatus sooner, it must be taken off, that the surgeon may ascertain the condition of the limb, and the progress of the cure. The re-application may be made with greater or less force than before, according to the effect already pro- duced. Until the deformity is entirely cor- rected, the removal and renewal of the appli- cation of the apparatus should be repeated every three or four days. When the appli- cation of the bandage, with such force as to tend continually to correct the deformity, is badly borne, we may (especially when the deformity is a shortening, which it would require very forcible permanent extension to combat in this manner) be satisfied w'ith re- applying the bandage so that it shall merely maintain what the surgeon has himself gained on each removal of the apparatus. When all deformity has been remedied, the treatment differs in nothing from the ordinary treatment of fractures. It has been often observed, that when an imperfectly consolidated fracture has been by any accident reproduced, the second cure occupies much less time than the first ; and it has been thence concluded, that in the