498 BLOOD-LETTING. skin, and expands the cellular tissue to the extent of masking the veins completely. When none can be found, the ligature should be placed on the wrist or ankle, with a view to obtain blood from the largest vessels, that may be found in either of these situations. In fat persons the first puncture of the lancet often does no more than expose the vein at the bottom of the wound : in such a case, a second puncture should be made to procure the flow of the blood. Sometimes after the blood has for a moment gushed out in a full stream, it ceases all at once. This may depend on the ligature above being too tight to allow the circulation of arterial blood, so that the supply to the flunctured vein soon ceases ; in this case, the igature must be slackened. When the liga- ture, on the other hand, is too loose, the blood does not flow, but trickles slowly out of the wound. Much, therefore, depends on the manner of applying the ligature, not only in regard to the rapidity and effect of blood- letting, but also to the preservation of the parallelism between the wound of the vein and that of the skin. The want of this may stop the flow of blood altogether. The evil is often produced from the vein being punc- tured while the arm is in supination, and from its being immediately thrown into pronation, in order to direct the stream into the basin, or from the arm being bent, after having been previously extended. These changes of position should be as much as possible avoided. The parallelism will be best restored by replacing the arm in the position in which it was when the vein was punctured. If the first puncture be too small, it should at once be enlarged sufficiently to allow of a free flow of blood. Another evil, which arises under the cir- cumstances just mentioned, is ecchymosis, or thrombus, as it is sometimes called. The parallelism must be re-established at once ; and if that cannot be done, the wound must be enlarged, in order to prevent the extrava- sation of blood from extending further into the cellular tissue. If the flow of blood ex- ternally has entirely ceased, the ligature should be removed, and another vein opened. The tumour thus formed may be left to nature, or absorption may be expedited by the application of a compress, moistened with spirit, or vinegar lotion. Inflammation of the cellular tissue may also arise. This is to be combated with leeches, saturnine lotion, and rest of the limb. External jugular vein.-—When this vein is to be opened, the patient is seated on a chair or bed, the head supported, and turned on one side ; a thick compress is then placed on the vein, between the point to be opened and the heart; this is secured by means of a bandage, or rolled cravat, the two ends of which are brought down into the axilla of the opposite side. The circulation in the vessel may also be interrupted by making pressure with the thumb. The vein being thus rendered turgid, the surgeon places his index finger on the vein about an inch higher, to steady it and stretch the skin, and at once opens it by a larger and deeper incision than that which is usually made on the veins of the arm. The flow of blood is easily arrested ; and for this purpose nothing more is necessary than to remove the compress and bandage. But here a precaution of great importance must be ob- served, to prevent the possibility of air being drawn into the vein. The thumb should be kept pressed upon the vessel until the lips of the wound have been accurately brought together, and secured with an adhesive strap. If the vein be deep-seated, the skin covering it, including the fibres of the platysma myo- ides, may first be divided, by pinching them up ; the vein thus laid bare is then punctured longitudinally. If the blood does not flow freely, it may be assisted by the patient moving his jaw as in masticating. (See Fig. 155.) Saphena vein.—The different branches of this vein are easily rendered turgid by putting the foot into warm water. The bandage is then applied a little above the ankle, and the vein, which is here very superficial, being merely covered by the skin, is at once punctured. The blood may be received in a basin, or the foot may be replaced in the warm water, the wound being on a level with the surface of the water, so as to allow the surgeon an opportunity of seeing that the flow continues, and of judging of the quantity abstracted. The bleeding is promoted by working the toes. A compress and bandage are applied to secure the wound, as in blood-letting at the