BUBO. 531 fully, their advocates having mainly directed them against that form of the complaint'. Supposing resolution not accomplished, the bubo may pass into the indurated state, or it may decidedly suppurate. And first, let me speak of the local treat- ment of the stage of induration. A bubo may almost commence with this, the inflammation having been too inconsiderable to deserve | attention. Leeches and cold lotions are I generally useless, or worse. Warm applica- tions, more particularly poultices, are occa- | sionally beneficial, and a chronic bubo will | now and then subside under incessant poul- | ticing, which has resisted more active mea- ; sures. Perhaps what are called discutient plaisters, act more by maintaining warmth and moisture than by any more recondite virtues ; ! and the mercurial plaister, the iodine plaister, ! the emplastrum ammoniaci cum hydrargyro, j have all had their patrons, and have all been of service. Stimulating liniments and oint- ments, such as the ointment of the iodide of potassium, of mercury, of the tartar emetic in I a weak form, may be resorted to. And de- cided irritation of the surface by the tincture I of iodine, by the nitrate of silver, by blisters, i &c., is frequently very desirable 'K So far as my own observation has gone, the best method of treatment has consisted in | counter-irritation, succeeded by the iodide of potassium, or mercurial ointment, and, by the application, at last, of some plaister spread 1 on very thick, soft leather. The indicated bubo has been treated by ! compression. I have tried, and seen it tried— sometimes with advantage, often with none, in one or two instances with bad effect. It is not very easy to apply compression well. It is apt to be laid on too much or too little, and the patient does not relish the restraint. Com- pression is probably one of the many remedies that has been over-praised. Compression has been also recommended in the first stage of bubo, even though some little inflammation be present. M. Ricord, I believe, is the principal patron of it. He founds the practice on the fact to which I have before al- luded, that bubo seldom occurs on the side on which a truss is worn. But, granting this, it | does not follow, that, because compression may prevent the occurrence of inflammatory swelling, it will therefore remove it when it has j occurred. The phenomena of inflammation under fasciae, rather lead to the contrary con- [ elusion. I must admit, however, that I have 1 110 experience of compression in such a case. Some French writers, MM. Cullerier, Ratier, Ricord, and others, speak of “ scir- 1 In the interim, I would strongly recommend to I the reader, Mr. Parker’s work on the Modern Treat- | ment of Syphilitic Diseases. It gives an excellent I view of the practice of the French school, and is written with care and judgment. a I have found the following useful on this and similar occasions :—ft ung. hyd. fortioris, Ji — Ant. Potassio-tart. 3i—Iodinii, gr. x. ad xv. M. ft. un- guentum. To be rubbed in night and morning, until it produces a sero-pvirulent discharge from the surface. rhous” induration of the inguinal glands, as if it were a common consequence of bubo. But the term, scirrhus, must be loosely understood to warrant any such statement. True scirrhus is rare indeed, as a result of inflammation of the glands in question. In spite of all that we can do, indurated bubo will occasionally remain for a great length of time, and, from some fresh source of irrita- tion, inflame again and suppurate. Suppura- tion, in such a case, is far from undesirable, and the surgeon may do his best to promote it. A blister will sometimes flog up the indolent action, and determine the formation of pus. Local Treatment of suppurating Bubo.— When resolution is clearly unattainable, the best plan is to accelerate suppuration. The blister, which, perhaps has been applied with the view of dispersing the enlargement, will generally, if it fails in that, expedite, and, I think, limit the suppurating process. We must then resort to fomentations, and poultices of linseed meal, the oftener applied, and the hotter, the better. Suppuration advances, more quickly in the strong and the cachectic, more slowly in the scrofulous; and it becomes a question, and a much disputed one, how the abscess shall be opened. The following are the points which require consideration :—1st, Is it better to make an artificial, or to wait for a natural opening? 2, Is an opening by a cutting instrument, or one by caustic prefer- able ? 3, Shall we practise an early opening or a late, a small or a free one ? 1. As a general rule, surgeons are agreed on the impropriety of allowing the abscess to give way spontaneously. It is, therefore, un- necessary to dilate on the disadvantages of that. But there are cases in w'hich, I believe, the rule may be broken through with benefit. In the scrofulous bubo, where small foci of suppuration are often forming, and the cellu- lar membrane is a good deal implicated, the case often does better without the lancet than with it. The frequent incisions worry the patient, and seem to irritate the skin. I would not be understood to say, that, in the scrofu- lous bubo, the abscess ought never to be opened, but merely that the small collections that go on forming for a length of time, are frequently best let alone, and the same caution will now and then apply to the cachectic bubo. 2. There are few cases' in which an opening by caustic is advisable, or even justifiable. If the skin is not extensively thinned, no reason- able pretext can be urged for caustic ; and if it is, the surgeon must be ill-acquainted with the resources of either nature or art, who pronounces it irrecoverable. If a judicious opening relieves all tension, and properly eva- cuates the matter, the thin blue skin, even of the cachectic bubo (for few would dream of employing caustic in the simple or the scrofu- lous varieties), will revive marvellously under generous diet, and stimulants, and tonics, ac- companied with appropriate local manage- ment. M m 2