41 ABSCESS. and symptomatic abscess! A large opening in the case of a symptomatic abscess would not fail to induce all the bad consequences of the sudden introduction of air within an excitable and extensive cyst. A different mode of opening, namely, by successive small punctures is therefore adopted in such cases. But even here there is some variety in the mode of making the punctures. Some prac- titioners use a needle, the same as that em- ployed in evacuating anasarcous collections of the limbs, scrotum, &c., or a cataract needle ; in the latter case, a cupping glass is placed over the small puncture in order to pump out the matter, at the same time that it prevents the access of the air. In the Hotel-Dieu of Paris, the puncture is made with a thin-bladed bistouri. The skin is drawn on one side so as to be rendered tense in the part where the puncture is to be made ; the retraction of the skin is kept up until the quantity of matter desired is evacuated ; it is then relaxed, and, regaining its natural position, the opening made in it no longer corresponds with that of the cyst. By this method the jet of pus is of tolerable volume, and can be stopped as soon as the bulk of the tumour has fallen a little. The period for repeating the puncture will de- end on the rapidity with which the pus is ex- aled; the proper time will be when the tumour has again become tense. It is important when the matter has been drawn off, that the little orifice shall be properly closed :.lhe adhesive plaister used for this purpose should be fresh and good, and should be placed double on the opening ; and once placed it should not be re- moved, but rather be allowed to fall off. It will contribute much to a favourable issue, if the air can be perfectly excluded, or admitted only in such small quantities as gradually to accustom the interior of the cyst to its presence. It will happen upon the first, second, or third puncture that the cyst becomes irritated, painful, and tense, accompanied with constitu- tional disturbance, colic, diarrhoea, and vom- iting ; but these symptoms are much less in- tense and obstinate than when the air has been suddenly and largely admitted; they soon yield to proper treatment, local and general, and become less and less manifest at each successive puncture. While this is taking place, the maintenance of the general health, the gradual diminution of the tumour at each successive puncture, and the progress of ame- lioration in the primitive lesion, inspire hope of a favourable termination. Sooner or later, however, whether we have to deal with a large chronic abscess or a symptomatic collec- tion, the period arrives when the small orifice resulting from the puncture will not heal; it remains open, and is often enlarged by breaking into one or more of the preceding ones. The advantage of the treatment by successive punctures will then be evident. Had they been delayed till the collection thinned the surface and burst extensively, the symptoms of reaction consequent upon the free admission of air would not only be intense, but in all probability incontrollable for the future ; but thus in a manner habituated to, and prepared for its impression, the walls of the cyst are less susceptible of a high and baneful excitement, and the constitution of the patient is not perilled so much by the suddenness and severity of the shock. Nor is this all; for as the procession of the symptoms is hereby checked, there is time to combat for success against the constitutional lesion in which the abscess originated. This method receives extensive application in the French hospitals, being preferred in cases of empyema and other analogous collections, as well as in that of symptomatic abscess. Puru- lent collections are also sometimes evacuated by passing a seton through the tumour which they form ; and this with a view to the slow evacuation of the fluid, as well as to excite a healthy action in the walls of the cyst. The practice is grounded on the notion that the vieche introduced into the wound permits a capillary oozing out, of the pus, while its vo- lume prevents any sudden or considerable flow of it: but this will be the case for a short time only. The engorgement of the small orifices occupied by the vieche soon subsides, and the matter escapes continually and with- out further check; the vieche soon comes into painful contact with the lining membrane of the abscess which it irritates and thus retards, or opposes the cicatrization of the cavity. The operation itself, as well as the subsequent dressings, are besides very painful, while the treatment is more protracted, and the cure is not more certain than by incision. In some»rare cases, it may be necessary to employ a trephine to liberate the matter of an abscess. M. Roux relates a case in which a collection of matter within the cranium was indicated by an external abscess, which com- municated with it through a perforation of the bones of the skull; this may happen, according to this surgeon, whether the primitive collection has been formed between the cranium and dura mater, or whether it is circumscribed in the cavity of the arachnoid. The patient, upon whom M. Roux applied the trephine with success, was seventeen years old ; the abscess of the arachnoid had existed four years, under the right parietal bone, and communicated externally through an ulceration in the dura mater, and an opening in the parietal bone : there was a fistulous opening of the soft parts. In this case, however, it should be remarked, that M. Roux had not to contend with the obscurity and uncertainty of diagnosis which commonly exist in cases of abscess within the cranium, (see Head, Trephine,) and which must forbid the practice. The application of the trephine may be also required in cases of abscess of the mediastinum. Matter formed in the mass of cellular tissue, between the cavities of the pleura, will not only betray its presence by lever, and wasting, and by the impediment it creates to the functions of the heart and lungs, but also by its working out at the sides or inferior part of the ster- num, wearing its way through the bone itself. But the pus must have actually shown itself, before we should resort to the applica- tion of the trephine ; the mere rational signs, such as the dull sound under the sternum, the