CORNEA. sts occupies too much of the centre of the cornea for the dilatation of the pupil to be of any use, recourse must be had to an operation, so as either to prolapse a portion of the iris through a small incision at the margin of the cornea, and thus to draw the pupil opposite the clear part ( dislocation of the pupil, J or to cut out a piece of the iris opposite the clear part of the cornea ( artificial pupil by excision ). Dimness of the inner surface of the Cornea.— The membrane of Descemet, w hen inflamed, is the seat of more or less milky suffusion, in- terspersed with numerous small opaque dots of an altogether peculiar appearance. When the membrane of Descemet, Dr. Jacob informs us, has been touched by the point of the needle in breaking up a cataract, an opacity is pro- duced, closely resembling capsular cataract. I once observed a uniform but very slight suffusion of the membrane of Descemet pro- duced in a woman, from whose eye I extracted a lenticular cataract, in consequence of her having, after the upper section of the cornea, suddenly turned up the eye, in which move- ment the flap, being caught by the upper eye- lid, was folded down and the membrane of Descemet consequently grazed by the edge of the lid. Notwithstanding that this occurred twice during the operation, recovery, without any other untoward circumstance than the slight suffusion of the membrane of Descemet above mentioned, rapidly took place. Tumours and excrescences of the cornea.—An extension of membrane like sclerotic con- junctiva over a part of the cornea, as is repre- sented in figure 8, may be considered as an irregular and undue development or hyper- trophy of the elementary chorion of the cor- neal conjunctiva. Growths, with hairs grow- ing from them, analogous to those of the skin called moles, are sometimes met with, not only involving the sclerotic conjunctiva, but also the corneal. Warts also, or warty excrescences, have been found affecting the the corneal conjunctiva. Small fungous tu- mours sometimes sprout from an ulcerated part of the cornea. The treatment in all these cases is obvious.—See farther on this sub- ject, articles Eye, Pannus, and Pterygium, The following case of fungous excrescence of the conjunctiva corneas may be quoted here. J. S. set. forty, a strong, healthv-looking countryman, suffered for several years repeated attacks of ophthalmia. A pterygium subse- quently formed on the nasal side of the right eye, and was for a long time treated with caustics ; but instead of diminishing under the treatment, it progressively increased in size and thickness, extending over the margin of the cornea, and at last implicating it so far as wholly to impede vision. In July, 1837, the man came under the care of Dr. Rau in the following state:—A pale red fungous excrescence, with uneven granular surface, so perfectly covered the cornea that not a trace of it was to be discovered. The excrescence, which at the margins projected about a sixth of an inch above the surface of the sclerotica, was at its middle about one- half of an inch thick, so that it prevented the complete closure of the eyelids. It was in- sensible, firm, and consistent to the touch ; it appeared not very vascular, but was in con- nection, by means of dilated vessels, with a growth of the sclerotic conjunctiva, which appeared to proceed from, or at least to im- plicate, the semilunar fold. The rest of the sclerotic conjunctiva was injected. In the left eye there was a pterygium, which did not reach to the margin of the cornea. Dr. Rau proceeded to the extirpation of the tumour with the knife, but with doubtful prog- nosis, as it was impossible to determine before- hand the state of the cornea. The mass, having the consistence of granular fat, gave way under the forceps, so that it was found impossible to separate it in an entire piece ; it was therefore removed in fragments, and even this was rendered difficult by the not in- considerable haemorrhage. After the removal of the excrescence, it became quite evident that it had its origin from the conjunctiva corneae, the surface of which presented an uneven and granular appearance. A part of the large vessels of communication was excised. Not- withstanding repeated cauterization with lunar caustic, the tumour began to grow again, the vessels, of which a part had been excised, ap- peared as before, and in one month the fungus had again acquired a considerable size. Re- peated extirpation of it and of a considerable fold of sclerotic conjunctiva, together with the much distended vessels, at last put a stop to the growth. Instead of the nitrate of silver, caustic potash was now employed. Besides being applied carefully to the whole surface, it was pencilled all round the cornea, so as to destroy the vascular communications. The remains quickly shrank and came away under the repeated application of vinum opii. A blueish smooth surface now came into view, and the patient had a distinct perception of light. The cornea, which was very vascular on the surface, gradually cleared under the use of nitrate of silver salve in alternation with vinum opii. In six weeks after this the pupil could be distinctly seen, and the clearing of the whole cornea ensued under the continued use of the nitrate of silver salve. Two years after, Dr. Rau found the cornea of the right eye as transparent as that of the left, all trace of vascularity gone, and vision so good that the man had no difficulty in reading the finest print1. Mr. Travers gives an account of a somewhat similar case, in which the cornea was concealed by a lobulated tumour of a dark purple colour, and in which he extirpated the anterior hemi- sphere of the eyeball. On examination of the tumour, the cornea and sclerotica proved to be entire, and the morbid growth, lying upon and adhering to the cornea and a small portion 1 Fnngose Excrcseenz der Conjunctiva Corncae von Dr. Wilhelm Rau, Professor tier Mcdicin in Bern. Ammon’s Monatsschrift fur Medicin, Aiigenheilkunde uiid Chirurgie. Vol. iii. p. 66. Leipzig, 1840.