CANCRUM ORIS. 607 duccd by mercury is quite different from true gangrena oris, and should never be confounded with it. These points belong more properly to the subject of diagnosis, but we shall dis- cuss them here. Although we have seen a vast number of cases of gangrena oris, we have never seen it developed as a consequence of the action of mercury ; indeed few of the children affected had taken a single grain of mercury during their treatment in hospital. M. Taupin, who followed more than 200 cases during his residence at the Children’s Hospital, tells us that he, also, has never seen the ulcerations produced by mercury or tartar emetic termi- nate in gangrene. When tartar emetic is employed in high doses, after the Italian method, it often gives rise to ulceration of the mucous tissues of the mouth with saliva- tion, but the ulcers heal quickly, and never assume the form of gangrena oris, even in debilitated subjects. It must, however, be admitted that many of the symptoms of the scorbutic form of gangrenous sore mouth re- semble those which accompany excessive sali- vation. Dr. Webb says', “at this stage it closely resembled ptvalism ; indeed, so close is the resemblance, that it is almost impossible to distinguish the one from the other ; but in this disease there was not that great increased secretion of saliva which almost always ac- companies salivation.” Dr. Coates tells us that Dr. Parrish for several years in his private lectures noticed a stage of this disease, under the name of “ a disease resembling the effects of mercury1 2.” Notwithstanding the opinion of Dr. Webb, we feel convinced that by proper care the true gangrenous sore mouth, such as it has been already described, may be dis- tinguished from the effects of mercury. There are few eases on record of death following extensive destruction of the mouth in children after the administration of mercury ; but a very valuable one is contained in the Lancet3. A child, three years old, being affected with fever, was placed under the care of a young medical gentleman. Twelve white powders were prescribed, to be taken within twenty- four hours. After taking them the child’s face became swollen, abundant salivation en- sued, and the breath was very offensive. In- flammation soon extended to the whole of the gums, and some of the teeth fell out. On the third day after the administration of the powders, a small black spot appeared between the lower lip and chin ; this rapidly extended, and on the fifth day, nearly the whole of the lower lip was destroyed, while the adjacent skin, including that of the upper lip, was of a dusky red colour, becoming lighter towards 1 Med. Exam. No. 35. p. 1. 2 Dr. Cumin, also, notices the analogy between gangrena oris and the gangrenous destruction occasion- ally produced bv mercury. In a case of hydrocephalus he gave large doses of that mineral; in a few days a foul ulcer appeared on the inside of the check, and toon involved the parts in gangrene. Dr. Troscliel has written some interesting observations on the same subject in the Medic. Zcitung, No. 35, 1833. 3 Vol. ii. p. 158. 1831-32. the external margin of the phlegmonous circle. The child sank rapidly, and died in a state of prostration. On examining the body, the whole of the gums in both jaws were found to have been destroyed; and in addition to ex- tensive sloughing of the soft parts in the mouth, a line’s thickness of the muscles, form- ing the root of the tongue, was destroyed. The epiglottis round its edges presented a vivid red tint, and all the salivary glands were tumefied. This instructive case enables us to com- pare the effects of mercury on the gums and mouth with gangrena oris, and to es- tablish the differences which exist between the two affections. In gangrene of the mouth the salivation is not very profuse at first, and always takes place after the formation of the gangrenous ulcer or spot; the odour of the breath is different from that which is oc- casioned by mercury: if we examine, care- fully, the interior of the mouth (and this is particularly manifest after death), the gums, tongue, and mucous membrane are free from any marks of irritation or inflammation, ex- cept in the immediate vicinity of the points affected by gangrene. In many cases we have observed, after death, that the healthy portions of the gums were even more pale than is natural; tumefaction of the salivary glands occurs in a small proportion of cases only, and then takes place as a secondary lesion. In destruction of the mouth from excessive doses of mercury, the whole of the gums, with the salivary glands, exhibit marks of excessive irritation or inflammation, for some time before the development of the process, which re- sembles more sloughing phagedena than true gangrene. The interior of the mouth is red, the tongue swollen, and profuse salivation sets in before the occurrence of the slough. The peculiar mercurial odour also precedes the destructive process ; in gangrene of the mouth it is not perceived until ulceration or gangrene has commenced. Finally, in the dry form of gan- grene, or in that which commonly terminates existence, the tongue is never involved ; while in the mercurial case, which has been already noticed, we find “ that a line in thickness of the muscles, forming the root of the tongue, was destroyed; the edges of the epiglottis were red, and all the salivary glands were tumefied.” Amongst the causes of gangrena oris we must not omit contagion. Richter confesses that he cannot form any opinion upon this point, but M. Taupin affirms, in the most posi- tive manner, that he has seen the pseudo- membranous and ulcerative forms communi- cated from one child to another, by the use of the same spoon, glass, &c.; the dry form, however, he has never observed to be com- municated by contagion, perhaps because more precautions were used to avoid uncleanliness. Diagnosis.—The distinctions between gan- grene of the mouth and sloughing from the effects of mercury have been already pointed out; there are but few other affections to