ASPHYXIA. 438 of examining', precisely the same effects had been produced by the rope on the soft parts of the neck, and without any injury to the brain or spinal marrow. Two preparations, illustrative of the above statement, may be seen in the museum of the College of Sur- geons. The resemblance in the effects of the injury is remarkably striking.” In addition to the appearances observed by Mr. Houston, I found, after macerating the bones of one of these criminals, that the den- tata was fractured at the junction of its laminae with its body, but, from the little displacement of the fractured pieces, no pressure could have been exerted upon the spinal chord. The preparation of this vertebra, together with several other bones of the individual, are now in my museum. We learn from manuscript notes furnished to Dr. Paris, that Sir Benjamin Brodie thinks an animal may recover from the direct con- sequence of strangulation, and may suffer from the effects of the ligature on the nerves afterwards. Sir Benjamin Brodie passed a ligature under the trachea of a guinea pig, and tied it tight on the back with a knot; the animal was uneasy, but nevertheless breathed and moved about; at the end of fifteen mi- nutes the ligature was removed ; in the follow- ing morning, however, the animal was found dead. On dissection, no preternatural ap- pearances were discovered in the brain, but the lungs were dark and tinged with blood, and presented an appearance similar to that which is observed after the division of the pneumogastric nerves. “ I do not,” (observes Sir Benjamin Brodie) “ positively conclude from this experiment that the animal died from an injury inflicted on the eighth pair, but I think that such a conclusion is highly pro- bable, and it becomes an object of inquiry whether a patient, having recovered from hanging, may not, in some instances, die after- wards from the injury of the par vagum.” But it was not until 1831, that the effects of ligatures on the blood-vessels and nerves of the neck were fully investigated, when Sir Astley Cooper instituted a series of admira- ble experiments in elucidation of this subject; a full account of which will be found in the Guy’s Hospital Reports for 1836. The pre- parations, illustrative of this subject, were kindly shown me by Sir Astley Cooper him- self. The inferences which he draws from his experiments are thus stated :—“ It appears, from these experiments, that the carotid arte- ries are designed in these animals (dogs and rabbits), rather for the supply of blood to the external parts of the head than to the brain itself; whilst, in proportion as the brain is more developed, the carotid artery acquires greater importance. The obstruction of it influences respiration in some degree ; proba- bly, because, under these circumstances, more blood is directed to the vertebral arteries, 'rhe internal carotid branches arc proportion- ably less than in those animals which have a large cerebrum, and are endued with higher mental faculties. It passes to its destination, to prevent the action of the heart from influ- encing the brain immediately. “ The rabbit quickly recovers from the ope- ration of tying these arteries, and seems little affected by it ; and in man, as well as in these animals, these vessels are obliterated without the destruction of life. “ The vertebral arteries are much more im- portant vessels, as regards the brain and its functions in these animalsJ, than the carotid arteries. The nervous power is much les- sened by tying them ; and, in these experi- ments, the animal did not, in any case, survive the operation more than a fortnight; although I do not mean to say that recovery is impos- sible. In the dog, also, the carotids may be tied with little effect ; but the vertebrals have a great influence. The effect of the operation is immediately to render breathing difficult and laborious, from the supply of blood to the phrenic nerves, and the whole course of the tractus respiratorius of Sir Charles Bell being stopped. The animal becomes dull, and in- disposed to use exertion or to take food. Very slight injuries, after a ligature has been put upon these arteries, will destroy life ; in- somuch, that if they are fresh tied, even dis- secting for the carotids, without tying them, will cause death. The best method, in such experiments, is to tie the vertebrals last. “ On account of the importance of these vessels, they are securely defended by bone in the greater part of their course ; and it is only below the sixth cervical vertebra that they are accessible. If they were exposed to pressure, death would often be suddenly pro- duced. These arteries are tortuous, to pre- vent too sudden a rush of blood to the head ; and they pass through foramina of bones, which prevents any great increase of their size ; although they become somewhat larger than before, when the carotid arteries are tied, and vice versa. Thirdly, compression of the carotid and of the vertebral arteries at the same moment in the rabbit, destroys the nervous functions immediately. This is effected by the application of the thumbs to both sides of the neck, the trachea remaining quite free from pressure ; when respiration entirely ceases, with the exception of a few convulsive gasps. “ The same fact is evinced in a clearer and more satisfactory manner, by the application of ligatures on the four vessels, all being tightened at the same instant; when stoppage of respiration and death immediately occur. When the dog is the subject of this experi- ment, it loses its volition and sensation, and appears as if it were intoxicated ; but the anastomosing vessels gradually restore the cir- culation by means of the other branches of the subclavian artery at the back and sides of the neck. 1 Mr. Coleman informs me that the vessels of the horse are different; and lie thinks it is designed to counteract gravitation, when the animal is feeding on grass.