ANEURISM. 253 branches given off from the main arteries, the blood might find easy access to the aperture of the wounded vessel. BRACHIAL ARTERY. The brachial artery may be tied at the bend of the arm, or in its middle or upper part. The course of the vessel corresponds with a line drawn from the middle of the bend of the arm upwards along the inner edge of the biceps, which covers it a little, until it nearly reaches the axilla. At the articulation itself, its course is marked pretty accurately by the median basilic vein, which is visible beneath the skin. Anomalies occur frequently in the distribution of this vessel ; the most common is that in which its bifurcation occurs, at va- rious points of its course, from the bend of the arm up to the axilla. As its superficial situation, however, allows of its pulsations being felt throughout its entire course, the surgeon can easily ascertain beforehand, whe- ther such is the case or not. fSee fie-. 78A Pig. 78. No. 1. a, the axillary artery; b, the median nerve; c, the axillary vein; d d, the ligature passed under the ar- tery ; e and f a blunt hook, and re- tractor. No. 2. a, the brachial artery, the darklines at each side of it in- dicating its accom- panying veins; b, the median nerve; c, the internal cutaneous nerve ; d d, the liga- ture passed under the artery; e, blunt hook retracting the radial border of the wound. No. 3. a, the brachial artery, the dark lines indicating the satel- lite veins; b, the me- dian nerve; c c, the ligature passed, un- der the artery; d, the median basilic vein. No. 4. a, the radial artery, the dark lines indicating its satel- lite veins ; b, the su- perficial vein run- ning along the en- tire length of the radial border of the incision ; c c, the ligature, passed un- der the artery; d and e, a hook, and retractor. At the bend of the arm.—In operating, the fore-arm being extended in supination, and the surgeon standing between it and the pa- tient’s body. he makes an incision from two to three inches long, in the direction of the ar- tery, beginning above and terminating in the middle of the bend of the arm. The median basilic vein is left untouched on the radial border of the wound. Its lips are kept asunder Fig. 78. by an assistant, and the brachial aponeurosis, which is continuous with the tendon of the biceps, is divided on a director. The artery is now seen accompanied by its two veins, one on each side, and having, on its ulnar side, but at some little distance, the median nerve. (See No. 3, fig. 78.) The fore-arm is now bent a little, in order to facilitate the isolation of the vessel, and the ligature is passed be- neath it from the ulnar to the radial side. Aneurismal tumours in this situation are by no means uncommon, but they are chiefly of the traumatic kind, produced by the sword, or by the lancet in bleeding. Their treat- ment by compression is not unfrequently suc- cessful. When an operation is required, great care should be taken to distinguish the artery from the nerve ; a task which it will be some- times difficult to accomplish, on account of all the parts being deeply tinged by the extrava- sated blood. In these cases the surest plan, when practicable, will be to place a ligature both above and below the wound of the artery. At the middle of the arm.—The indications of the course of the vessel in this situation, are the inner border of the biceps, a line drawn obliquely from the middle of the bend of the arm, to that of the hollow of the axilla, or its own pulsations. The median nerve, which accompanies the artery throughout its entire course, here crosses obliquely in front of it, and is thus at its radial side above, and at its ulnar side below. (See No. 2, fig. 78.) The arm is held in the same position as in the preceding operation, and an incision of two, or two and a half inches in length is made, in the direction already described, beginning below, if it be the left arm, and above, if it be the right. The finger of the left hand is now introduced into the wound to feel for the me- dian nerve, which presents itself as a thick, white cord, and the artery which pulsates behind it. The median nerve and biceps being retracted with a blunt hook, the firm aponeurosis enveloping the artery, and the two veins, with which it is usually accom- panied is exposed. This should be divided on a director; the artery is then seen, with its veins covering, or at each side of it, and the internal cutaneous nerve on its ulnar side ; the ulnar nerve itself lies about half an inch farther back. The cellular envelope of the artery is then opened with the nail or blunt- pointed instrument, and being fairly isolated, a needle is passed beneath it from the radial to the ulnar side. The only difficulty that can arise in the execution of this operation, will depend on an anomalous distribution of the vessel: when the pulsations of the artery cannot be felt, the median nerve will serve as a guide to it, as it will be found just behind it, At the upper part of the arm.—The artery, in this part of its course, is situated to the inside of the edge of the coraco-brachialis, and a little lower down it begins to be covered with the biceps. (No. 1, fig. 78.) The opera- tion is performed as in the preceding instance. 11