109 AMBULANCE. under unfavourable circumstances, to hospital gangrene. Should the quantity fail, tow may be used in its stead ; when cut into proper lengths, bleached in a chloruret, and properly carded, M. Gama, who first used it, states that it answers the purpose perfectly ; but charpie should not be used at all, as it may have been prepared from foul linen, and as it contracts hurtful alteration much more readily than lint. All portable articles to be packed up in small bales, cags, or packages duly labelled, that in roads impracticable for wheel carriages, they may be carried on bat horses or mules. These articles should occupy as little space as pos- sible. One of the great objects to be held in view is the facility and celerity of transport ; the economy of space and weight therefore is matter of importance. There should also be a supply of liquid acetate of lead, and of the watery solution of opium ; the former for ready application with water to contusions, sprains, and profound lacerations, in which the skin remains whole ; the latter, to wet the dressings in cases of torn wounds, burns, &c., produced by explosions of shells, the bursting of guns, &c. Wax candles are indispensable, as without them no efficient succour can be given to the wounded on the field after night has fallen ; no operation performed ; and thus too often, would the bleeding soldier be ex- posed to perish from wounds which care and timely attention would heal. The foregoing is the divisional detail of transport, but a reserve park of spring wag- gons, and long cars in the proportion of two of the former by division, and one of the lat- ter by brigade, should move in the rear of head-quarters for the purpose of replacing de- ficiencies, and further assisting in the evacua- tion of field hospitals. Although the hospital corps is chiefly in- tended for the service of the wounded in the field, yet it is to be employed in the hospitals of the army when in quarters. In which case, orderlies detached from their regiments would rejoin their respective corps, where they would again reap the benefit of regimental discipline, and lose those unsoldier-like and slovenly habits that such men are liable to contract when away from their officers. The French organization of their ambulance companies might serve as a model for their formation. It is as follows :—one captain, one subaltern, one sergeant-major, one pay-sergeant, five ser- geants, or upper ward masters when in hos- pital, ten corporals or under ward masters, two bugles (indispensable for sounding halts and advance in the transport of wounded), ninety-six privates or orderlies, one tailor, one shoe maker, one cutler (a most useful artisan to keep surgical instruments in repair), one carpenter, four cooks; when employed in hospital, these are distributed in the propor- tion of one ward master for every hundred patients, and one orderly to every twelve. The waggons and cars, with their drivers, will be also under the command of their proper offi- cers ; non-commissioned officers, with wheel- wright, farriers, saddlers, &c. &c., are also to be attached to the corps. Duties upon a march.—Troops usually move by divisions and by brigades. Previously to their marching, the ambulance and hospital corps should be formed on the assembly ground, and all men unable to proceed with their corps should be brought to this spot by one of the regimental medical officers, who will leave with the medical staff officers at- tached to the ambulance a return of cases. The regimental cars to move in the rear of their brigades, when not otherwise ordered by the general officer in command. These cars to receive and carry the packs of weak men not requiring transport. The hospital corps and the spring waggons to move at some distance in the rear of the division, picking up and carry- ing such men as had not been able to proceed with their companies. When troops arrive at a wholesome source of water, the hospital corps should fill their canteens for the use of the sick. When the troops are bivouacked, the hospital corps should be employed in throwing up huts, or in establishing temporary hospitals in any adjoining buildings, and in preparing some light food for the sick they have brought in. As the independence of this body is indispensable, a commissariat should be specially attached to it, to issue the neces- sary supplies, both to the corps, and the sick and wounded under their care. When troops are marching near the enemy, the spring and store waggons should move at some distance in the rear : the long cars, with the hospital corps and their bearers, should keep close in the rear of their respective brigades, to afford immediate relief when necessary. Every regiment is allowed a bat horse or mule to carry medicines, materials, and instru- ments. The panniers hitherto used for this purpose are, in every respect, most objection- able. They are made of osier work, and are unwieldy, liable to be bulged in when coming in contact with other baggage, easily pene- trated by rain, or injured in fording deep rivers or streams, the covering skins not pro- tecting sufficiently the pervious baskets—they are also much too large : a very small propor- tion of medicine is requisite in the field, and these cases should, therefore, principally con- tain surgical materials. Light leather water- proof cases arp preferable, as they can be slung on an orderly’s back, when rapid move- ments off the roads prevent bat horses from keeping up ; they should besides be made to open in such a manner as to bring their contents into view, to obviate the necessity of unpacking and deranging. It would be desir- able that surgical saddles, on the plan of those proposed by M. Weiss, should be adopted by regimental surgeons, as they contain all the instruments, materials, and medicines, that could possibly be required in the field, by which means bat horses might be kept in the rear, and not encumber the line of march, an evil that should be guarded against, as much as possible, in military operations.