634 CANCER, PATHOLOGY OF. perceptible as soon as formed, but rarely attracts attention until it has acquired the dimensions of a small hazel-nut. We re- member, however, to have some years since examined a minute globular induration of the size of a pea embedded in the superficial layers of the mamma of a female, which attaining the bulk of a walnut in the course of a year was then removed and found to consist ot scirrhus : similar facts are noticed in a subsequent page. The shape of the tumour is subject to much variety ; it may be pedun- culated or polypiform, wedge-like, circular with flattening, globular, or amorphous, and may or may not be circumscribed. The surface is in the outset usually smooth and even, but very generally becomes lobulated or botryoidal as the growth of the, mass advances. We have already spoken of the difference of size under ordinary circum- stances of the three species of cancerous tumours. The consistence of scirrhus is usually very considerable; carcinoma of this species, as observed more particularly in the mamma, sometimes possesses the dense, heavy, and unyielding hardness of stony matter. The characters of encephaloid tissue are in this respect peculiar, when it has accumulated extensively, or, in some cases, even from its earliest appearance. Combined with a mode- rate degree of softness is a sort of doughiness and elasticity ; this character coexisting with hardness and density in other parts of the growth will leave no doubt as to the nature of the formation presenting it. It has, how- ever, been mistaken for the fluctuation of an abscess, an error productive of most serious errors in treatment: a bistoury has more than once been plunged under this false impression into the midst of softened encephaloid masses, given rise to tremendous haemorrhage, led to the immediate establishment of ulceration, and materially shortened the patient’s life. Mistakes of this kind, excusable before Hey and Mr. Wardrop had given their graphic descriptions of the disease, and before the nature and diagnosis of “ fungi of the dura mater” had been so thoroughly elucidated as they have been by the German surgeons, would at the present day be hardly venial. The sensation felt on pressing the softer parts resembles very strongly that produced by an erectile tumour. Dupuytren states that pres- sure gives rise in some portions of the growth to a sound like that of crumpling parchment. Scirrhus, when softened partially, becomes the seat of pseudo-fluctuation, which is, how- ever, very different from the elastic feel of encephaloid; and a knot of varicose veins lying on the surface of a tumour may, as M. Recamier remarks, be mistaken by an inatten- tive person for the phenomenon under con- sideration. The vascular character of encephaloid seems to render it an a priori probability that under favourable circumstances pulsation might be detected in it. The existence of pulsation is in fact one of the signs of meningeal encephaloid growths protruding through the cranium ; but observers are not agreed as to whether this is a motion transmitted from the subjacent brain or arising in the substance j of the tumour itself. The same indecision exists with respect to the beating noticed by Dr. W. Stokes1 in a case of intra-thoracic carcinoma. On the other hand Dupuytren makes no question of the occurrence of inter- stitial pulsation, and describes the phenomenon as at first deep-seated, becoming gradually more superficial and distinct, isochronous with the pulse, unattended with rustling sound (bruissement) accompanied sometimes in advanced cases with general expansion of the mass, ceasing when the chief artery lead- ing to the part is compressed, and produced by simultaneous dilatation of all the minute arteries of the tumour. Scirrhous formations are not in their early stage endowed with any marked sensibility; as a general rule it may, indeed, be affirmed that they are then insensible, pressure and various manipulations exciting no discomfort. It has, however, been remarked by numerous observers that pain is very commonly ex- perienced about half an hour after these tumours have been examined, especially if they have been at all roughly handled. When pain is excited immediately after or during pressure, this may, according to some writers, be taken as evidence that inflammatory action is going forward : if this statement be understood to apply to the tissue surrounding the cancerous substance, it is very probably correct. Subcutaneous encephaloid growths are more liable to be painful under pressure : colloid, it is said, less so than these. The shape of organs and parts in which cancer is developed is greatly altered in some cases. The accumulation of the foreign mat- ter in the liver occasionally enlarges that organ prodigiously, and modifies its figure. Cancerous deposition in the bones is some- times attended with an extraordinary expan- sion of their substance. But the most im- portant alteration of shape in a practical point of view exhibits itself in hollow organs or canals. The accumulation of cancerous mat- ter in the walls of these parts has the effect of diminishing their caliber, whence arise the most distressing symptoms of the disease in such situations. Thus in cancer of the rec- tum, oesophagus, and larynx, obstructed move- ment of the matters naturally circulating through those ducts—of the faeces, ingesta, and air—is an early consequence of their decreasing diameter. Further, in the effort to remove the accumulation of the contents of the part which occurs above the obstruc- tion, the muscular coat of the diseased tube becomes hypertrophous, while dilatation pro- portional to the quantity of the stagnating matters is likewise produced. Among the symptoms properly so called, pain claims our first attention. We have ’ On Dis. of the Chest, p. 379.