11 EAR, AND HEARING, DISEASES OF. through the Eustachian tube. Mr. Douglas' relates a case in which a bead, one-fifth of an inch in diameter, after having been more than twenty years in the ear, was at last forced out on the occasion of an effort in child-bearing. In this case perforation of the membrana tym- pani in ail likelihood existed. In a case related by Sabatier, the foreign body, a ball of paper, did not, for some months, cause any marked disturbance, but after that, cerebral symptoms came on and the patient died. On examination of the body it was found that the brain over the petrous bone of the left side had become intimately adhe- rent to the dura mater, and was the seat of a small abscess communicating vrith the cavity of the tympanum by a perforation in the tem- poral bone. The ball of paper was found in the cavity of the tympanum, into which it had made/ its way after having caused ulceration and perforation of the membrana tympani, and where its presence had excited chronic otitis interna and caries of the walls of the tympa- num, followed by inflammation of the brain. Maggots have been found in the ear, in con- sequence of flies depositing ova there. They occasion very severe pain, and, if not soon removed, inflammation, followed by discharge mixed with blood. Fully formed insects also occasionally get into the ears. If the animals cannot be laid hold of with a forceps, sweet almond oil is to be poured into the auditory passage (never anything acrid or stimulating), in order, as has been done, to force them out to breathe, when they may be seized1 2. At all events the ani- mals will be killed, and may then be readily removed by injections of tepid water. By the latter means, indeed, other bodies, if not wedged in, may frequently be brought out. In all cases, if the presence of the foreign body in the ear has already excited inflamma- tory action in the passage, attempts at removal are not to be persevered in. Under such cir- cumstances, efforts are to be made to subdue the inflammation by the abstraction of blood, either generally or locally, together with the employment of emollient cataplasms, and the pouring in of warm oil or milk. When irrita- tion and swelling have subsided, manual inter- ference is again admissible. It is to be remarked, that before making any attempts at extraction, the surgeon ought to satisfy himself by careful examination, that a foreign body really exists in the ear, and, if so, to ascertain the nature of it. He should never be content with the patient’s word alone. A child eight years of age pretended to pass a small pebble from his ear to his mouth, whereupon his companions cried out that the little juggler had introduced a pebble into his ear. The mistress of the boarding-house im- mediately made attempts at extraction, and 1 London Med. Caz. Oct. 19th, 1839, p. 130. s Lcbende Tliiere ini Ohre, von Dr. Heine. Medi- cinische Zeitung, herauggegeben v. d. Verein fur Hcil- kunde in Preuasen. 183o. No. 44, p. 201. the surgeon of the establishment, when he arrived, imprudently repeated them. Three days afterwards Boyer ascertained that there was nothing in the ear at all; but pain, puru- lent discharge, and dulness of hearing were the consequences of the attempts at extraction which had been made. Accumulation of cerumen, Src. in the auditory passage.—Accumulations of hard, dark-brown wax in the auditory passage are a very com- mon cause of deafness. The nature of the complaint is at once discovered by ocular in- spection. In most patients it is necessary merely to draw the auricle upwards and back- wards, whilst the auditory passage is exposed to the light, in order to discover immediately the dark-brown shining surface of the mass which stops up the ear. Should it lie deeper, it cannot escape notice if recourse be had to the speculum auris. Accumulations in the auditory passage are owing to various causes :— 1st. The accumulation may consist of a mixture of foreign substances, such as wool, dust, &c. with the ear-wax, otherwise in a na- tural state. 2nd. It may be from an excessive secretion of ear-wax, without any actual inflammatory affection of the tissue surrounding the ceru- minous glands—an excessive secretion which is met with in those lax constitutions in which there is also an unusual development of and secretion from the sebaceous follicles of the face, together with thickened mucous mem- branes of the nose and throat. This excessive secretion of ear-wax may, therefore, co-exist with muculent obstruction of the Eustachian tube. 3rd. The accumulated substance may con- sist of wax mixed with epidermic exfoliations, hairs, and even earthy matter. This kind of concretion is the result of erythematous in- flammation of the skin of the auditory passage and irritation of the ceruminous glands, at- tended sometimes by pain, frequently, how- ever, without any marked symptom. The following are examples of acute sym- ptoms attending ceruminous accumulation:— A violent cold in the head comes on with a dull uneasy feeling of distention in the nose and maxillary sinuses, but especially across the forehead, in the frontal sinuses, and in the ears. All these symptoms go off, but deafness and buzzing in the ears remain. The evacuation of a quantity of wax from the ears removes these likewise. A gentleman complained of uneasiness, frequently amounting to pain, and that very severe on pressure, in the auditory passages. When the pain was severe, there was a sensation of throbbing, together with swell- ing of the skin, producing contraction of the mouth of the auditory passage. This condi- tion was accompanied by a fizzing sound in the car and dulness of hearing. The excite- ment having been removed by leeches, stupes, and counter irritation, the passages were exa- mined, and dark-colourcd accumulations were discovered pretty deep. The concretions 1