250 FRACTURE. is hardly to be considered ; for negligence or delay may be far more injurious than the searching hands of a judicious surgeon. The distinction between the different kinds and complications of injury already adverted to, may be dwelt upon most advantageously when we come to speak of the fractures of individual bones ; but with regard to the diagnosis of fracture and luxations, one great and very general distinction between them deserves to be impressed on the memory,—namely, that while there is loss of voluntary motion in both cases, luxation stiffens the joint affected, but fracture, on the contrary, renders the parts more yielding to the hand of the examiner. It is of great consequence that the surgical student should so cultivate his sight and touch that he may be enabled to dispense with all unnecessary roughness in the examination of a fracture; and, with a view to this end, he should make cases of difficulty objects of spe- cial attention. He should even, I think, pro- duce, and study them in the dead body, so as to acquire a sharpness of eye and niceness of hand ; by which means he will be able to detect very slight degrees of deformity, un- natural mobility, or crepitus. Gentleness in the examination of a fracture is materially conducive to the success of the subsequent treatment, independently of the suffering spared to the patient. Lacerations, inflamma- tion, abscesses, or even worse mischief, may often be aggravated by a rude hand. As soon as the surgeon has discovered one unequivocal symptom of fracture, and gained the requisite knowledge of the nature of the displacement, he should desist from all further examination. The deformity produced by fracture is the consequence of some displacements, causing shortening, or angularity, or rotation of one of the fragments of the bone, and in many cases it is obvious to the hand, or even to the eye. Where this is not the case, the surgeon should be provided with a tape divided into inches and parts of an inch, w'hich will render mani- fest degrees of shortening, which would cer- tainly escape the unassisted eye ; and he should take advantage of any prominent ridge or plane of bone approaching the surface, such as the spine and anterior surface of the tibia, to run his finger carefully along it, in search of any unnatural inequality of the body. The two sides should be placed accurately in the same position, for the purpose of comparing them ; thus, in a case of fracture of the fe- mur of difficult diagnosis, the two limbs should be fairly placed side by side, with the anterior superior spinous processes of the ilia on an exact level, before proceeding to measure comparatively the distances between promi- nent points on the two sides. In all cases it is right to ascertain, by questioning the pa- tient, that any deformity detected cannot be the result of any cause unconnected with the immediate accident. The second physical sign of fracture, viz. unnatural mobility of the bone at the point where it is broken, is often so obscure as not to be safely relied upon. When it can be distinctly ascertained, it is an unequivocal sign of fracture, and is sometimes, as in some fractures of the ribs, fibula, &c., the only physical sign, the existence of which can be satisfactorily determined. The remaining physical sign, crepitus, is both the most frequent and the most im- portant in diagnostic value. It is the sensible or audible grating of the surfaces of the fracture, when they are made to rub against one another. The etymology of the word might lead us to suppose that crepitus can be appreciated by the ear only, but, in fact, it can be perfectly perceived by touch, and is frequently not heard when it is distinctly felt: and, except in fractures caused by mus- cular contraction, when the action, instead of approximating the fragments, separates them, so that they cannot be brought into the con- tact which is necessary for the production of crepitus, and except in incomplete fractures, this symptom is rarely absent. The difficulty of producing crepitus may be caused by some of the soft parts, as a portion of muscle, get- ting between the fragments ; but oftener it arises in transverse or nearly transverse frac- tures, from the circumstance, that the dis- placement in the direction of the diameter being complete, the fragments are drawn along one another, the outer surface of one, covered by its periosteum, being in contact with that of the other, so that the pro- duction of crepitus is impossible, without first restoring the length of the limb. To discover crepitus, therefore, as in fractures of the neck of the femur, it is often necessary to direct an assistant to make extension, till he restores the natural length of the bone, and then to make some rotation, while the surgeon mani- pulates the fracture ; and insinuating his fin- gers and thumbs as near as possible to the bone, gives close attention to the sensation conveyed by the movements to his hand or ear. When readily practicable, the examina- tion to discover crepitus should be conducted solely by the surgeon ; by laying hold of the limb above and below the presumed place of the fracture, and with or without extension, according to circumstances, gently moving the fragments so as to bring the fractured surfaces into contact. There is a crepitus very different in its cause from that produced by the friction of two surfaces of broken bone against one another; but the surgeon, who is not well acquainted with the distinctive characters of the two, may readily mistake the one for the other. De- scription may give an idea of their differ- ence, but no one will distinguish them with certainty who has not often had experience of them. The crepitus w'hich I may style delu- sive, is caused by the motion of tendons in their sheaths, and of muscles where they move on one another or neighbouring parts by favour of synovial bursae ; when, the lining membrane of the sheaths or bursae being affected with chronic inflammation, its secre- tion is so altered that the tendons or muscles