BURNS AND SCALDS. 537 grce of injury. A knowledge of this point will moreover prevent our confounding the accident with erysipelas, to which it bears some resemblance. Although rarely mortal, it is not unfre- quent, when extensive surfaces are inflamed, to And the pulse rise, become frequent and full, the tongue red, and phenomena of gastro- intestinal irritation supervene. In irritable subjects high nervous excitement may occur, leading to want of sleep, delirium, convulsions, and even death. Sudden constitutional disturbance is more particularly observed in the case of powerful insolation, coup-de-soleil. When the bare head is some time exposed to the direct rays of a burning sun under certain predisponent circumstances, as after active and continued labour, during deep sleep, during the lethargy of intoxication, it is affirmed that one or other of the subjoined forms of encephalic affection may be excited. 1. Sub-acute phrenitis ; 2. High phrenitis ; 3. Apoplexy of a con- gestive type ; 4. Delirium with fatal syncope *. Dr. Steinkiihl, from the results derived from the cadaveric examination of two cases of coup-de-soleil, has ingeniously attempted to demonstrate that death is caused by asphyxia from gorging of the lungs with blood, and suspension of the heart’s action1 2. These violent symptoms have led many to view insolation of the head and face as present- ing a special malignity of character, but analogous results are often produced by erysipelas of these regions provoked by other causes: post mortem examination disclosing the same vascular turgescence of the mem- branes of the brain, as is met with in fatal cases of insolation. The scorching from lightning is sometimes attended with paralytic symptoms, the local phenomena are, a brownish red singed appear- ance of the skin with partial induration, to- tally different from the ordinary effects • of flame. An interesting case of this nature is detailed by Rust3. Some further observations have been col- lected by Dr. Keyler, in his second number of the Wiirtemberg Mediz. Correspondenzblatt for 1834. The event is reported to have taken place near Engweihingen,in Germany, in June 1833. Of several persons who were struck, one old man died on the spot, and four were severely injured : in one of these, an adult female, one pupil became dilated ; she was seized with loss of consciousness, followed by vomiting, and diarrhoea, which continued two days, together with painful feeling of lacera- tion in the feet; in a second, a middle aged man, partial paralysis of the arms ensued, attended with frequent painful convulsive twitching (like electric shocks) in the extre- mities. All evinced a sense of great anxiety 1 Kdin. Mod. and Surg. Journ. vol. xxix. J Hufeland’s Journal, B. xlix. 1 AuLatze und Abhandluugcu. Berliu, 1834. p. and oppression * the pulse became slow, rang- ing from fifty to sixty beats in a minute. The extremities were cold, rigors, and pain in the arms were complained of. The affected parts were the seat of burning heat. They had the aspect of incipient gangrene occupying the epidermis, and in some places the chorion ; suppuration took place, and in one case the sore was not cicatrized before six months. They all emitted a peculiar burning sulphu- reous odour, resembling that produced by rubbing iron and steel together. The clothes were torn in several places, and impregnated with the same odour. Parts of the body that are always exposed to the moderate but rubefacient action of heat, exhibit irregular brownish marbled patches, as may be seen in aged persons of sedentary habits, who are constantly sitting by the fire. Old French women of the lower classes, it is asserted, have the integuments upon the inner surface of the thighs and legs, speckled to such a degree as to impart a pie-bald appear- ance, from the constant practice they have during the cold months, of resting their feet upon small clay chafing-dishes filled with burn- ing cinders. For a like reason, workmen employed at forges have their limbs often covered wflth crusts and ulcers. Such are the effects of continual recurrence of the erythematous degree of burn on the human integuments. If the action of the several determining causes forementioned be more intense or pro- longed, the symptoms are more grave. But the distinctive character of the second degree of burn is the elevation of the epidermis by albuminous serum effused from the exhalant vessels, in the form of phlyctenae or blisters. These appear almost instantaneously on parts that are fleshy or of a delicate contexture, especially in the case of scalds. They are at first miliary vesicles containing limpid serosity, but speedily coalesce into blisters, varying both in point of size and number. These latter are of a citron-yellow tint, sometimes transparent, sometimes opaque ; and aug- ment in volume in proportion to the per- sistence of irritation. Under protracted ir- ritation, successive crops of vesicles spring up in the vicinity, during the first twenty- four hours from the accident. A rosy- blush, variable in depth of tint and in ex- tent, encircles these phlyctenous groups. Here there are considerable intumescence, and acute burning pain. If the epidermis be ruptured, there issues a quantity of serous fluid, generally limpid, but sometimes of a white or reddish tinge, according to the in- tensity of the lesion. Upon puncturing a blister, the contained liquid trickles away freely, except it be diffused in cells formed by concrete albumen, when it oozes out, drop by drop. On dividing without de- taching the distended epidermis, it soon col- lapses, but never reunites. After the lapse of a few days, it becomes dry and falls away ; and we see in its stead, either a thin delicate