528 BUBO. facts, that the fluid has been serous or sero- purulent. To pursue the description of the process of suppuration. The fluctuation, at flrst indis- tinct, becomes hourly more unequivocal—the oedema and the redness stretch far beyond the limits of the bubo—towards the centre of the swelling the integument grows prominent, is glossy, and thin—there the abscess is point- ing, there it will burst. For, the thinning or absorbent process proceeds—a small ul- cerated aperture is visible—the matter oozes out—the aperture extends, usually in a linear direction, and in that of the fold of the groin—or several apertures may form, and two or more may coalesce—the matter is then discharged more freely, but seldom freely enough—and, according to circumstances, the abscess may fill up, or ulcerated openings in the integument may continue, or sinuses may form, or the gland or the cellular tissue may undergo some morbid modification of struc- ture. But in persons of a healthy habit these cannot be looked upon as common sequelae of a bubo. I would observe in reference to them, that obstinate ulcerations and sinuses are more liable to happen if the patient persists in an injudicious amount of exercise, or in venereal or dietetic excesses. A carpenter had a sinus from bubo, in his right groin ; it resisted se- tons, division, and every thing that I could think of, until he totally discontinued his em- ployment. He had been much in the habit of sawing deal planks, with his right thigh flexed, and his knee pressing on the plank. It is a common enough occurrence for de- bauchees to continue venereal indulgences with sinuses in the groin, and I have seen these refuse to heal, till continence was sub- mitted to. The gland seldom remains in a morbid state, so as to keep up irritation and ulceration in the parts about it, unless the patient is guilty of great negligence or impro- priety. When this is the case, the gland may lie at the bottom of the sinus or beneath the ulcer, surrounded, perhaps, with diseased cel- lular membrane, itself partially disorganized, and acting like a foreign body. Under such circumstances, fresh attacks of inflamma- tion, and fresh abscesses, may be looked for. Sloughing.—The inflammation must be very violent, or^ what is more likely, the patient or the surgeon much to blame, when either the integument or the gland sloughs. Some de- gree of sloughing of the skin is not uncom- mon in patients of the lower class, who are often, from inadvertence or necessity, negli- gent of their disorders. I once saw the gland slough out completely. A young gentleman, of a full habit, had a simple bubo from exco- riation of the inner prepuce. He ate and drank as usual, and suppuration threatened. In spite of my remonstrances, he went out for a hard day’s hunt. The inflammation became excessive ; matter collected rapidly. I opened the abscess early, but the gland and a good deal of cellular membrane came away as a slough. Such is the history of bubo, as wre meet with it in persons of a healthy habit. It is only requisite to add, that extreme conse- quences, such as I have touched on, are but rarely seen. Bubo in a scrofulous habit.—It would be tiresome to go seriatim through the phases of bubo in a strumous subject. The differential characters are the only ones that I need glance at. Of course I would not be under- stood to imply, that in every scrofulous per- son bubo will assume peculiar features. No such constancy is observed in disease. In many an individual who displays the linea- ments of scrofula, a bubo will appear and dis- appear, as it does in the seemingly healthy. But the scrofulous, and, a fortiori, those who exhibit the diathesis most strongly, arc more prone to the modifications I am about to men- tion, than they are in whom no such diathesis is evident. No better proof can be offered for much that is generally admitted in patho- logy. Perhaps the following conclusions will not be found very wide of the truth :— 1. Persons of a decidedly scrofulous habit are particularly prone to bubo, and the ten- dency is to affection of several glands. 2. Bubo, when it occurs, goes through its stages with extreme dilatoriness. 3. Resolution is much less frequent than in the healthy. Induration is very common. Suppuration is common too. 4. When suppuration has occurred, the following condition of the parts is apt to supervene. A considerable swelling occupies the groin, sometimes pretty uniform, more frequently irregular upon its surface ; the integument is of a bluish, and variegated, or, rather, of a brick-dust red : on pressure, the swelling feels remarkably boggy, elasticity, however, predominating in one part, cede- matous pitting in another. Amidst the “ bog- giness” and tumefaction, hard lumps may be distinguished, evidently indurated glands : the tenderness is usually inconsiderable, and the seeming amount of disease contrasts strongly with the general absence of pain. If the suppuration has been recent, there are ulcer- ated apertures, of greater or less size, leading, perhaps, to an exposed gland: if the case is more ancient, those apertures may have closed completely, or, which is more common, they have ended in sinuses, generally leading to a gland altered in its structure. The discharge, when there is any, is thin, and I have seen it curdy. There is a strong disposition to re- peated and partial attacks of suppuration. The duration of this morbid state is always pro- longed, and sometimes to a great extent. A few months ago, I saw a gentleman in whom it had existed for a year and a half. And we cannot wonder at this, when we reflect upon the tediousness of a similar affection of the cervical glands, more favourably circumstanced as in many respects they are. At last, how- ever, under proper treatment, or propitious