731 CATHETERISM. By the evacuation of the aqueous humour the cornea has collapsed, and the vitreous humour, lens, and iris, have become pressed forwards upon the cornea. This figure may be compared with fig. 1, which shows the parts in their natural situation. In figures 23, 24, and 25, the point at f is the place at which the cornea has been divided. Fig. 26. (from Dr. JV. Soemmering) The interior of the eye of a woman, seventy-three years of age, in which the lens, along with its capsule, was reclined by Dr. Emden. The cataract re-ascended, and three months after the first operation, the reclination was repeated. A segment of the cataract always con- tinued visible behind the pupil, notwithstanding which the patient saw well for three years, when she died.— Mackenzie, Op. Cit. p. 679. Fig. 27. (from Dr. W. Soemmering) Shows the interior of an eye dissected by Dr. Soemmering, eight years and a half after reclination. The lens had entirely disappeared, a portion of the centre of the capsule, which had been displaced along with the lens, appears curled up, and lying in the lower and outer part of the ciliary body, umile the remainder of the capsule forms two transparent semilunar flaps, retaining their natural situation, the one behind the upper and the other behind the lower part of tloe iris,—Mac- kenzie, Op. Cit. p. 674. CATHETER, from naOuvai, to thrust in, algalie, sonde, Fr. Hamleiter, Ger. Catheters are cylindrical tubes chiefly employed in eva- cuating the urine from, or injecting fluids into the bladder ; they are also used in exploring the viscus to determine the presence of stone, and to dilate the urethra, being thus applicable either for the diagnosis or treatment of diseases of the urinary organs. French surgeons apply the name of catheter to the grooved staff employed in the operation of lithotomy, re- serving the synonyms above mentioned for the instrument denominated catheter by us. These instruments are generally made of gold, silver, platina, metallic alloy, or gum elastic (see Bougie) ; they are flexible or in- flexible, and vary considerably in length, size, shape, and curvature, according to the age, sex, or particular case for which they are em- ployed. The elastic gum catheter which has been rendered so perfect of late years is formed of silk thread closely woven on a brass wire or stilet, over which successive layers of siccative oil are laid till the silk tissue is en- tirely covered. The openings or eyes are formed in the tissue itself, and sometimes the instrument is made without, any opening, or with one only'. They are smooth and highly polished, and are less irritating to the urethra, when they are to be worn for any time, than the metallic ones. At one extremity, the in- strument is rounded or coned, at the other it is open to receive a stilet, which is used to give the desired curve, or to keep the interior clean. In the metallic instruments, this end is sometimes shaped into a flat handle, either of wood or metal; rings, too, are formed for the purpose of fixing the instrument in the urethra by means of cotton cord which is 1 These openings are made near the rounded end of the catheter, but if the end itself were left open, we should have an instrument more advantageous under certain circumstances than any catheter with lateral eyes. passed through those rings. There is a band- age in use for this object (see Bandage, Fig. 148) ; but the same end may be accomplished bv tying the cord on the catheter close by the orifice of the urethra, and then carrying both ends of the cord to form two knots, one to bind the other on the dorsum of the penis just beyond the glans, and then tying the ends together in a third, or running knot under the urethra. The inconveniences arising from the want of a standard size for catheters are much felt, and might be easily remedied if the manufacturers would adopt the plan of graduation proposed in the article Bougie, which is to take half a line for unity, and augment by half a line for each ascending number, till the size of four lines be attained. The catheter used for fe- males is considerably shorter than that for males, and is but slightly curved. The observa- tions connected with the curvature and shape of this instrument will form part of the suc- ceeding article, which will contain also a de- scription of a catheter proposed some years ago by the author, and which is now exten- sively employed, being, so to speak, a self- guiding instrument in "passing down the ure- thra. (See also Urethra.) CATHETERISM.—By the word “ Ca- theterism” is understood the introduction into the urethra, and most commonly down to the bladder, of an instrument proportioned to the size and length of the canal, whatever be the object of such introduction and whichever the instrument employed, be it a solid or grooved staff, a silver inflexible, or a gum elastic flexible catheter, a wax or metallic bougie; be it straight or curved. Catheterism, or sound- ing, is also used to designate other processes of exploration performed on the different mu- cous outlets of the body, and even on fistulous or accidental apertures ; thus we speak of the catheterism of the Eustachian tube, of the nasal canal, of the antrum, of Steno’s duct, of the oesophagus, and of the sinuous course of wounds or fistulous openings. But when the term is used without further qualification it designates the exploration or sounding of the urinary passages. However inconsistent the avowal may ap- pear with our present purpose, it is neverthe- less perfectly true, that dexterity and suavity in the introduction of instruments is less to be acquired by the precepts hitherto inculcated in books, than by practice and example, and even some of the rules laid down to guide us on this point do not deserve to be particu- larly extolled. The surgical doctrine of ca- theterism stands in great need of simplifica- tion, and the few rules that really are useful with relation to it require to be redeemed from that over refined elaborateness, the effect of which is too frequently to intimidate the young surgeon, thus insuring a clumsy and painful performance of this surgical ministra- tion, from the mere dread of a barely possible mischief. To him who possesses the neces-