ALVINE CONCRETION. 75 I published many years ago, on the morbid anatomy of the gullet, stomach, and intestines, mention has been made of this mode of treat- ment, which was proposed by my father, and of which succeeding authors, particularly Dr. Copland, has spoken in laudatory terms. The following is an extract from my book, and contains, in a letter to Sir A. Douglas, the history of one of the cases in which this mode of treatment was adopted. “ Edinburgh, Nov. 28, 1768. “ Sir,—Having carefully examined and con- sidered Mr. M.’s case, I am altogether certain that his complaints proceed from a concretion lodged within the left side of the colon, of the same kind probably with those he passed some years ago, and of which I have in my posses- sion about thirty, taken from different patients. “ As it is impossible to reach it from the anus, so as to extract it with a pair of forceps, the patient should carefully observe the fol- lowing directions, by which it is hoped he may in no long time pass the concretion, or bring it past the turn of the colon into the rectum, so that it may be got hold of with an instrument, and extracted. “ He ought to take every night, at bed- time, a tea-spoonful, or as much of the lenitive electuary as shall be found sufficient to pro- cure one loose stool; and in the morning a clyster, composed of an English pint of warm milk, to which two table-spoonsful of olive oil are to be added ; and this should be retained for an hour, if possible, by lying in bed, with the buttocks raised by pillows. “ When he goes to stool, he ought, with his hand, to push the concretion downwards as far as he can, without raising considerable pain, and to sit over the steam of hot water, making efforts longer than is commonly ne- cessary ; and even when he is not at stool, he ought frequently through the day to work it downwards with his hand ; and by squeezing as if he were at stool, or by putting his finger, or a feather, into his throat, to occasion such an effort as is made when we vomit. “ Once in ten days, or oftener, he should take a purgative, and on the evening of that day a laxative clyster; and when the clyster begins to operate, let him take an emetic, and go into the warm bath. A dozen or two of pills, made of Castile soap, in a table-spoonful or two of oil, taken every day, may probably be of considerable service. A flannel-shirt should be worn, and through the day a piece of fur should be laid upon the tumour. His diet ought to consist chiefly of bread, milk, soup, or broth, with a little fowl, jellies, or plain roasted or boiled meat. Moderate walk- ing, or riding on horseback, will be of service ; but fatigue is to be avoided. I believe I need not add, that excess in eating or drinking might prove highly dangerous. “No chirurgical operation is to be per- formed, unless the concretion should alto- gether stop the passage through the guts, so as to bring on dangerous symptoms, such as could not be removed by medicines. In that case, indeed, an operation, though very dan- gerous, might be necessary.” The following year my father received the subsequent letters from his patient. “ Dundee, 20th Feb. 1769. “ My disorder rather increases. I am in continual pain ; my appetite is quite gone ; I get no sleep but from opium, which undoubt- edly will soon reduce me very low ; indeed, I am so already. The concretion still remains in the same place. In March I found the tumour a hand-breadth lower than it had been in November. “ I am, &c., John M.” Upon this letter my father wrote the fol- lowing memorandum.—“ In March the tumour was a hand-breadth lower than it had been in November, or half-way between the anterior spinous process of the ilium and the os pubis. “ Instead of the former clyster, I recom- mended an infusion of linseed with oil, and to throw in as much as his guts would receive. He found that he could receive a chopin of it, and thought it reached as high as the tu- mour. “ I prescribed the following mixture :— Ijb Mannae 3 iij. ; Vitel. ovi 3ij.; Olei olivar. Jss. ; Misce, dein. adde sal. Glauber. Jj. ; Solut. in aq. fontan. § vj.—He took this pur- gative in the morning, once a-week ; at night the clyster, and then the emetic, and passed the clyster in time of the vomiting. Dundee, 2d April, 1769. “ ‘ Upon feeling for the lump yesterday, to my surprise I found it quite away from the lower part of the groin, where it used to give me much pain from every thing that passed it. Ever since, I have suffered great pain across the fundament; and I have passed nothing these two days and nights. I cannot throw up one-sixth part so much of the clyster as I used to do, and that gives me much pain. I am continually very thirsty, have a great pain across my stomach, and the parts there are all extended more than usual. I took physic this morning, but it has not produced any effect. There is a very great rumbling in my stomach; the wind, &c., roll about continually, but do not come lower down. I cannot eat any thing. Pray, let me have your answer in course. “ ‘ I am, &c., John M. Jun.’ “ 1P. S. Since I wrote the other side, I have been seized with a violent vomiting.’ “ This gentleman died before my answer reached Dundee, on the 24th of April, 1769. “ After his death a very large concretion was found in the lower part of the sigmoid flexure of the colon.” Of the mode of cure by a surgical operation. —There are two different methods by which an extraneous body may be removed from the intestinal canal. By the one the extraneous body is extracted by a pair of large blunt for- ceps after the rectum has been dilated ; by the other, an incision is made into the intes-