CATARACT. 707 ness of the eye to light,—a sense of heat in the eyes,—and increased vascularity. These symptoms vary in degree at different times, but take place frequently, particularly upon any cause of excitement. By many this has been considered as the cause of spontaneous cataracts. M. Petit observed that in 300 cases of cataract, two-thirds of them occurred in persons who had exerted their eyes much in a strong light. 2. Different kinds of Cataract.—The most distinguished authors who have written on the subject of cataract have divided and ar- ranged the various forms of the disease dif- ferently. The disease termed cataract con- sists, as has been already mentioned, of an opaque state of the whole, or a part, either of the crystalline lens, its capsule, or of both these parts,—an opacity of the liquor Morgagni, or an opacity consisting of lymph deposited on the capsule of the lens, or in the posterior chamber of the aqueous humour filling up the upillary aperture. Hence all the different inds of cataract may be included under the following:—1. Lenticular Cataract, in which the opacity is situated in the lens itself. 2. Capsular or Membranous Cataract, in which the capsule is the seat of the opacity. 3. Cap- sulo-Lenticular Cataract, where both lens and capsule are opaque. 4. Cataract of the humour Morgagni; and, 5. Adventitious Cataract, in which the opacity consists in an opaque ef- fusion between the capsule of the lens and pupillary aperture. Assuming these as generic terms, or as de- noting different genera of the disease, all the different species of cataracts may be included under them. (a) Lenticular Cataract.—Opacity of the lens, constituting lenticular cataract, is the most common form of the disease. Lenticular cataracts may vary in colour, consistence, and size, in different cases. In colour, they are generally white, yellowish, or bluish-white ; greenish, whitish, or bluish-grey ; striated, radiated, or speckled, and sometimes, though rarely, brown, which last have been termed black cataracts. In consistence they vary from fluid, to a firm cartilaginous consistence, or even bony hardness. When the cataract is of a yellowish or amber colour, or is dark grey, the lens is generally hard, also when radiated, or more opaque at the centre than the circum- ference, it is generally hard. When light or blueish grey, soft. When completely white and uniformly opaque, generally fluid, within an opaque capsule. When an opaque lens appears to be larger than the size of the natural lens, it is generally soft or fluid. The opacity commences, or is first apparent, in the centre of the lens, and extends towards its circumference. In old persons, the opacity is generally of a darker colour than in young subjects, being, in the former, generally of a yellowish grey colour, while in the latter, it resembles half-boiled white of egg, or milk and water. The consistence of lenticular cataracts is most commonly that which the lens should possess in its natural state at the age of the patient in whom it occurs. Thus they are generally found to be soft in childhood, ge- latinous in youth, firm at middle life, and hard in old age. The size of lenticular cataracts is generally that of the natural lens. But when soft or fluid, it is generally larger, and when hard, smaller. The opacity affecting the lens may be partial, or it may be general; when partial, it is usually confined to the centre of the lens, which in some cases I have found converted into bone ; but in other more rare cases, the disease consists of one or more opaque spots in other parts of the lens. When the whole of the lens is affected with opacity, the centre of the lens always appears to be more opaque than it is towards its circumference, arising probably from its greater thickness at the centre. Lenticular cataract most commonly takes place spontaneously in elderly persons. It takes place gradually, and hence the im- paired vision at the commencement consists only of a slight mist or cloudiness before the eye. This gradually increases, till the patient fails to discern minute objects ; but he gene- rally retains so much sight as to be able not only to distinguish light and shadow, but even bright colours ; the vision is better in twilight, and worse during the day, on account of the expanded state of the pupil in the former case, and its contracted state in the latter. In this kind of cataract the motions of the iris are natural and lively, and the opaque lens appears to be situated at a sufficient distance behind the pupil, particularly when it is di- lated, to receive a shadow from the iris, which forms a blackish line, within the circumference of the pupil. (6) Capsular Cataract.<—Opacity or cataract may affect the capsule of the lens only. It may be situated in the anterior part of the capsule, in the posterior part, or both. The opacity may be general, or may be only partial, being confined to one part, or having the ap- pearance of several opaque lines, or spots. When cataract is situated in the anterior part of the capsule, it is easily recognised, but when situated in its posterior part, it is in some cases with difficulty distinguished from any opacity of the vitreous humour, of the lens itself, or of the retina. In many cases of capsular cataract the lens is wanting, either by having been spontane- ously absorbed after an injury, or removed by an operation. If the capsule of the lens has been ruptured, the lens generally becomes dis- solved and absorbed by the aqueous humour : a contracted opaque capsule then remains. When the capsule becomes opaque after the removal of the lens by an operation, it is called secondary cataract. This generally takes place by the capsule having been detached from its vascular connexions. In consequence of this it becomes dead, opaque, shrivelled, and contracted. But it may also become ‘ Z z 2