EMPYEMA. 11G certain by Larrey’s employment of the cupping glass in cases of haemothorax ;) but we cannot imagine any permanent advantage obtained in respect of expansion of the lung, inasmuch as the instant the instrument is withdrawn, atmo- spheric air must rush into the pleura. Is it advisable, under all circumstances, to close the wound after the operation ? If the contents of tne pleura have been completely evacuated, there can scarcely be any motive for leaving the orifice open. If the evacua- tion have been only partial, it is still better to close the opening than leave a canula or tent in it, as the constant renewal of the air in the pleura is decidedly detrimental, and may— unlike entry of air at the first—be prevented by immediate closure of the wound. If, how- ever, any species of canula were devised (such as, it is alleged, M. Reybard’s is) which would admit of the egress of fluid, and suc- cessfully oppose the ingress of air, this objec- tion will cease to exist ; and the facility afforded by such an instrument, for the re- moval of any newly-secreted fluid, will be an important motive for its employment. The changes induced by the operation are or may be, of two kinds ; physiological, and pathological. The former, which are local and general, are as follow : the diminution of the contents of the chest is attended with decrease in the dimensions of the affected side,—the gradual progress of this was ascertained in the following manner by Dr. Townsend in one case :— CIRCUMFE- CIRCUMFE- RENCE OF HENCE OF DISEASED SIDE. SOUND SIDE. Inches, lines. Inches, lines. Immediately before the operation . . 16 6 Evening after this . . 16 3 Gth day after . . . 14 10 7th ditto 14 6 8th ditto 14 3 9th ditto 13 9 The approximation of the pleural surfaces is rendered manifest, sometimes at a very early period, by the occurrence of friction pheno- mena ; the patient is frequently enabled to lie on the affected side on the day, or even a few hours, after the operation ; his dyspnoea is im- mediately relieved ; the state of anxiety under which he laboured disappears ; and a sound sleep, the first, possibly, enjoyed for weeks, commonly follows the evacuation. Of the pathological results, as they may be termed, of the operation, pneumothorax is the most inevitable : the question of its influence on the ultimate issue of the case has already been considered. The continuance of secre- tion from the pleural surface for a greater or less period, and hence the constant renewal of empyema, is of very common occurrence. In rare instances, the characters of the newly secreted fluid remain those of that originally evacuated ; in the great majority, they change, the general tendency of the change being to the purulent character. The alteration from the almost purely serous appearance to the purulent is sometimes accomplished in twenty- four hours. When the fluid has been origin- ally more or less completely formed of pus, but of a laudable kind, its conversion into a purulent matter, of bad quality and fetid smell, is not unusually observed. Under these circumstances, the injection of warm wrater or some other unirritating fluid becomes advis- able. Should there be much appearance of putrescency, a small quantity of very weak solution of chloride of sodium may be added. The notion of giving tone to, and diminishing the irritation of, the pleura, by injecting solu- tions or infusions of tonic preparations, seems of very questionable justness ; nor has the practice been attended with sufficiently favour- able results to warrant its general employ- ment. In the ordinary course of things, when the case is destined to end by the patient’s restora- tion to health, the wound or wounds in the thoracic walls gradually close, and cicatrization is perfect within a short period ; but in some cases, the opening, instead of closing, acquires the characters of a fistula, which it retains for a variable period, and daily gives issue to more or less pus,—this state of things is not incom- patible with health and the discharge of active duties. See the Article Fistula, Thoracic. When spontaneous perforation of the costal pleura has occurred, and a portion of the con- tents of the pleural cavity escaped through this into the subcutaneous cellular membrane, forming an abscess there, this should be open- ed without delay, in order to prevent the oc- currence of sinuses and burrowing : so well established is this point, that the operation is under these circumstances termed empyema of necessity. Cases of double empyema are, as a general rule, unfit for operation, unless evacuation be rendered necessary for the prevention of asphyxia. Should particular circumstances arise, under which the operation might on other grounds become admissible, an interval of time, varying in length with the condition of the patient, should be allowed to elapse between the two operations. There are certain cases of acute effusion into the pleura, in which accumulation occurs with such rapidity as to endanger the patient’s existence by suffocation. Here it becomes necessary to open the chest, and this has fre- quently been done, under the circumstances, with favourable result. The conduct to be pursued by the surgeon in cases of effusion of blood into the pleura, is examined in the article Hemothorax ; and for further directions as to the manual part of the operation for empyema, we refer to the article Paracentesis Thoracis. Addendum.—Since the foregoing pages were written, we have had an opportunity of seeing a paper upon empyema, by the late Dr. Hope, published in the Medico-Chirur- gical Review for July, 1841. Although the