CANCER. 661 that both descriptions refer to the same case. 3. Brain.— Ebermaier mentions two cases of cancer of the cerebral substance attended with absorption of the corresponding’ part of the cranium. In one of these the internal table and diploe of the right parietal had disappeared to a considerable extent, and the outer lamella was attenuated and even perforated. An en- cephaloid tumour weighing four ounces dis- closed itself, on post-mortem examination, in the substance of the right hemisphere ; the investing arachnoid and pia mater were in the normal state. That protrusion would have occurred here, had the patient lived longer, is rendered next to certain by a case subse- quently watched by Ebermaier himself1. In this instance a fungous tumour, protruding from the cranium, and opened with caustic during life, was found to have taken its origin from the left hemisphere. Mr. Travers “ has a preparation exhibiting a genuine example of encephaloid affecting the anterior lobe of the cerebrum and protruding the eye from its socket, while the eye itself was perfectly free from disease2.” 4. Bones.—C. v. Siebold believing, on the authority of two cases he had met with, that the disease always originated in the diploe (an opinion which seems to have been that of Saudifort, Kaufmann, and Heister) termed it fungus of the skull. But though the error of this notion, as an exclusive doc- trine, is now thoroughly established, it is equally certain that these growths do fre- quently spring from the cranial substance. Passing over the cases just referred to, one of the tumours described by Wishart was evi- dently thus seated ; the same may be said of Eck’s case ; a fungous mass, as large as an infant’s head, observed by Schindler, grew from the tissue of the frontal and ethmoid bones. The chief connexions of an encepha- loid growth described by Graff were with the diploe and compact substance of the bone ; some trifling adhesions only brought it into organised relation with the dura iqater and integuments. Velpeau refers to a most con- clusive case, on the authority of Lauth of Strasburg, in which a tumour of fungous cha- racter had formed between the tables of the parietal bone. The diploe is commonly the im- mediate seat of the morbid formation in these cases ; but Graff’s case, as well as the admirably minute description by Ebermaier, of a cra- nial tumour, shows that the compact substance of the tables may be its nidus ; whether with or without the transmutation of tissue de- scribed by Cruveilhier does not appear. The condition of the bones in the case of pulta- ceous alveolar cancer, related by the latter observer, is shown in the subjoined woodcut. Here the frontal, ethmoid, nasal, the body and wings of the sphenoid and the inferior turbinated bone, the pituitary membrane, and part of the dura mater were affected. 1 Article in Encvl. Worterb. s. 581. 2 On Dis. of the Eye, 3rd cd. p. '228; 1824. Fig. IG5. a, Fair cerebri; b, foramen occipitale ; c, chief sub- stance of the tumour; d, surface of the os frontis; e, optic nerve ; f, spongy bones ; g, crista galli; h, pari- etal bone ; k, sound passed through a fistula uniting the nares with the external surface. 5. Subpericranial cellular tissue.—The chief tumour in Chelius’s second case (that of a woman aged 58) was seated between the pericranium and bone, connected with the fibrous membrane at its line of union with the skull, and closely adherent to the osseous sub- stance. The latter presented some small openings capable of admitting a sound, but no regular perforation. Chelius considers this growth a production from the pericranium itself; and his third case exhibits stronger evidence of the possibility of such origin. Blasius has also admitted, apparently how- ever without having himself witnessed the fact, that the pericranium may be the pri- mitive seat of the affection ; but Ebermaier, in his latest production’, questions the exist- ence of pericranial fungus as a distinct forma- tion. Chelius’s cases seem at least to prove that cancerous growths may arise in the tissue intervening between the skull and its fibrous investment; and the fact is further established by a case observed by Mr. Langstaff many years back, wherein “a tumour was found at the vertex beneath the pericranium ; it had affected the bone only in a slight degree2.” V. Walther, on the evidence of a single case, maintained that the disease was always consti- tuted by a simultaneous change in the dura mater, cranium, and pericranium, but especially marked in the blood-vessels of the diploe. In Chelius’s third case, all those tissues were evi- dently, in some situations, included in the morbid change ; and such, too, appears .to have been the fact in the individual operated on by Sir A. Cooper. On the fallacy of V. Walther’s notion, as a general proposition, it is needless to insist. Symptoms.—It will be necessary to examine separately the symptoms of meningeal cancer while within the skull and after its appear- 1 Article in Encycl. Worterb. 2 Med. Cliir. Trans, vol. iii. p. 288. 1812.