ANATOMY, MORBID. 197 accompanied with a change somewhat allied to it. Under the fifth head are arranged those deviations from the healthy state which de- pend upon scrofula or struma. It must be allowed that there is very sufficient ground for questioning the propriety of separating the phenomena of scrofula from those of inflam- mation, since it is most probable that it con- sists in a variety of inflammation rather than any distinct process ; there are, however, so many peculiar conditions attendant both on the local and general appearances, and they constitute so important as well as so marked a class of derangements, that there is a mani- fest practical advantage, although, possibly, some irregularity in making this division, which, however, is sanctioned by the view which has been entertained by some patholo- gists respecting the nature of scrofula. The most striking feature of scrofula is the produc- tion of a new material, which has been called scrofulous or tuberculous matter, in one or more parts of the system. It is met with under several varieties which appear to de- pend on changes which it may undergo from its first formation, till its expulsion from the body, or till it acquires a form in which it may remain quietly lodged in the system ; never- theless, some of the differences which it pre- sents may depend on varieties of the strumous state, or on the peculiarities of the parts in which it happens to be situated. By some pathologists, at the head of whom may be placed Laennec, who has carefully studied the phenomena connected with tuber- culous matter situated in different parts of the body besides the lungs, it is considered that this material commences in a semitransparent and gelatiniform state,—that it subsequently becomes opaque ; for a time acquires an in- creased density, but ultimately undergoes a pro- cess of decay attended with softening commenc- ing at the central part of the mass, and thence extending to every part, and preparing the way for its expulsion through an ulcerated opening formed for its exit. Andral, another highly respectable authority, denies the con- version from the semitransparent to the opaque state, and considers that tuberculous matter is formed at once opaque and friable, that there is often no semitransparent deposit, and that when there is, it is not to be regarded as the early state of the tuberculous matter, but rather the nidus in which it is deposited. Laennec and some of his disciples have con- sidered tuberculous matter as an accidental tissue. Others, amongst whom Andral may again be mentioned, regard it as a secretion, and in pathological classification closely allied to pus. This latter opinion appears to be more correct; nevertheless, it must be observed that although tuberculous matter is incapable oi organization, or of maintaining life in con- nexion with surrounding parts, it does, how- ever, undergo changes in which vitality is concerned ; and if the transparent gelatini- form state be admitted, which is bv no means disproved, it would seem that in its early stage it approaches to the character of that plastic product of inflammation which is sus- ceptible of organization, whilst in its advanced stage it is as inorganizable and excrementitious as pus itself. The possibility of tuberculous matter being susceptible of absorption, or not, has, like some of the points already alluded to, been the subject of difference of opinion and controversy. The question is one of practical import- ance, since upon it will depend the propriety of pushing the use of some active agents with the hope of producing absorption, which would not only be useless but objectionable were the idea of absorption wholly inadmissi- ble. The fact is probably this ; that the ab- sorption or non-absorption of a scrofulous en- largement, must in a great measure depend upon the stage at which the swelling may be, when the attempt is made.' Although the existence of a peculiar material designated by the terms scrofulous, tuberculous, or caseous matter, is the most striking and most decisive characteristic of scrofulous derangement, yet the general characteristics of a strumous con- stitution, and even some local derangement may take place prior to the existence of any of this material. The intimate structure of parts seems to undergo a change by which the proportion of their elements is affected. Thus, the bones in young subjects contain less than the ordinary proportion of earthy matter, and are consequently liable to distortion from the child’s own weight, or the application of some external force. The absorbent glands are often paler, and seem to contain a large proportion of fluid parts. The brain, and perhaps some other soft parts seem at times to receive a more than usual quantity of blood, and appear preternaturally vascular. With this change of texture, there is often an alteration in size as well as figure, the bones, especially towards their extremities, become enlarged. This is often strikingly the case with the absorbent glands, and hypertrophy of the brain itself is not very uncommon in children. The state of the constitution on which these changes depend has not inaptly been styled strumous cachexia, and is well deserving of the most serious attention on the part of both medical and surgical practition- ers. Some excellent observations have been made respecting it by Dr. Todd, and they have been carried out to a further extent in the very valuable work of Dr. Clarke on con- sumptive diseases. For the various appear- ances and stages of tuberculous matter, in dif- ferent organs, and for an interesting inquiry respecting the comparative frequency with which they are affected, the works of Laennec, Louis, Andral, and Lombard, and that by Dr. Clarke already mentioned may be very advan- tageously consulted. For the external or more strictly surgical peculiarities of scrofula, trea- tises on glandular tumours, affections of the joints, and on lumbar and psoas abscess, by English and foreign surgeons, may be referred