237 FONTICULUS. This opening is occupied with a piece of sponge, through which the urine filters into the bottle. The patient herself removes the bottle, and empties it three or four times a day. Feburier, the instrument-maker of Paris, has supplied a sort of boat-shaped trough, which is easily maintained in its situa- tion, and by which the effusion of the urine through any other channel is prevented. Dr. Graham, of Edinburgh, has given a sketch of a somewhat similar instrument em- ployed by him with good effect. The sketch will be found in the Lancet, November, 1841. In a case in which I operated by incision of the vagina, for the removal of a very large stone from the bladder, the inconvenience was obviated by Mr. Lavies, of Westminster, who assisted me with Mr. Bransby Cooper in the operation. Mr. Lavies thus describes the present state of the patient :— “ My dear Sir, Feb. 25, 1842. “ In answer to your inquiries respect- ing Mrs. King, of Greenwich, on whom you operated for lithotomy two years ago, I have great pleasure in acquainting you that she has continued to go on very well: the only incon- venience she has had having been from the constant flow of urine. “ To obviate the disagreeableness of having the water constantly dribbling, and the an- noyance from chafing which necessarily oc- curred, I was induced to invent a small instru- ment, to be introduced into the vagina, having a plug, and secured by a small bandage round the body. Since this has been worn, the pa- tient is enabled to pass nearly the whole night with only a little escape of urine, and during the day, when sitting still, she suf- fers no inconvenience; she can also walk about without being incommoded. To use her own expression, ‘she is quite comfortable, and her life is not a misery to her.’ “ It is right to say that your patient, al- though a married woman, never had any chil- dren ; from that circumstance, added to her advanced age (seventy-six), the vagina was small, as you will recollect the difficulty there was in withdrawing the stone, owing to its great size, through that passage. “ It may not be uninteresting to add, that this lady is the same person spoken of in Sir Astley Cooper’s Lectures on Tumour, who submitted to the removal of her breast, weigh- ing twelve pounds and a half. “ Yours, &c. “ John Lavies. “ To W. B. Costello, Esq." The instrument alluded to by Mr. Lavies consists of a nipple-shaped funnel, with a rim to encircle the external aperture. It closely resembles the nipple of Hamilton’s vaginal syringe. The end of the nipple being open is kept in the fistulous opening, while the ex- ternal opening is stopped with a plug. In this case, the adhesion of the lips of the wound has proceeded so far as to leave an opening, which will now barely admit the end of tlte little finger, and it is not unlikely if the end of the zinc tube were not kept in- serted into the opening, that it would heal altogether ; for it should always be borne in mind, that even where an operation has failed, cases of vesico-vaginal fistula have been known to become completely cicatrized under the sole influence of a well-conducted palliative treatment. Some patients will not consent to wear any other apparatus than a pessary. A caoutchouc bottle, adapted to the necessities of the case, and duly maintained in the vagina, will be our best resource under such circumstances. Mr. Bullin, of Farringdon-street, informs me that he has been able to keep a patient under his care, comfortable and capable of enjoying society, for the last six years, by the use of the tepid hip bath, with frequent plugging of the vagina with sponge and fine linen. Chafing and excoriation he prevents by the use of the following ointments :—Liq. plumb, subacet. 3i; ol. olivse et ol. palmse aa ; cetacei 3iv. Bibliography.—Lewziski, These. Paris, 1802. Ncegele, Erfulmmgen trad Abhandlungen aus dem Gebiete der Kraukheiten des weiblicben Geschlechts. Manheim, 1812. Zang, Darstellung blutiger heil- kiinstlerischer Operationen. Wien, 1819. Ammon, Parallel der franzosiseben und deutschen Chirurgie. Leipz. 1823. Cumin, Edinburgh Med. and Surg. Journ. 1824. Barnes, Case of Successful Treat- ment of Incontinence of Urine consequent to sloughing of the bladder from injury during labour. In Med. Chir. Trans, vol. vi. Hobert, in Lond. Med. Jour. 1825. Ilall, in American Joum. of Med. Sci- ence, vol. v. Lallemand, Reflexions sur le Traite- ment desFistules Vesico-Vag. in Arch. Gen. de Med. 1825. Comte, in Journ. Gen. de Med. Franc, et Etrang. t. lxxxix. Rome, Fall von angeborner Ham- fistel, in Harab. Mag. 1827. Paillard, Cauterization des Fistules Vesico-vaginal es parle fer rouge. Joum. Hebd. 1829. Malagodi, Suture of the Vagina and Bladder in a case of vesico-vaginal fistula. Raccoglitor Medico, 1829. Latigier, Instrument pour la re- union des Fistules Vesico-vaginales et Recto-vesicales. Journ. Hebd. 1829. Dieffenbach, in die Med. Zeitg. v. Yereine f. Heilk. in Preussen, 1836. no. 84. Ju- bert, Lancette franqaise, 1834. Schmidt's Jahrb. d. Med. b. viii. s. 322. Kilian, Operationslebre f. Ge- burtsh. ii. Bonn. 1835. Harless, Ueber die Behand- lung der Fist. Vesico-vag. und Recto-Vesical, mit dem Cauterium in Hotel-Dieu zu Paris. Velpeau, Leqons Orales de Clinique Cliirurg. Paris, 1841. ( W. B. Costello.) FLUCTUATION (Jluctus, Lat.; Schwan- Icen, Ger.) The undulation of a fluid con- tained in any natural or accidental cavity. It is recognised by pressure, percussion, or auscultation. FOMENTATION (fotus, Lat.; Bahung, Ger.) The application of hot fluids, simple or medicated, to any part of the body : vari- ous kinds of decoctions are employed for this purpose. The mode of application is to dip a piece of flannel into the hot fluid, and, after wringing it, to place it on the part, covering it with a towel or oil cloth, so as to retain heat, and prevent the wetting of dress or bed- coverings. FONTICULUS. See Issue.