401 GANGRENE, HOSPITAL. attended by, the eonstitutional,—so, constitu- tional disturbance, apparently dependent on the same causes that gave rise to hospital gangrene in other persons, has occurred in some individuals without any mark of local affection being discoverable. Dr. Hennen mentions his having seen the febrile symptoms without any local affection, among the ser- vants and washerwomen during the Bilbao epidemic. The pyrexial symptoms which are liable to attend hospital gangrene, are not exclusively of one form or character. The constitutions of the individual patients, and the mode of life they may have been leading, as regards diet, exercise, &c. may be supposed to exert considerable influence over the character of the attendant fever ; but, as in the case of idiopathic fevers, so this is probably influenced by other circumstances of a less obvious na- ture, and which, in our present ignorance of them, we must be contented to designate as the peculiarities of an epidemic constitution. The typhoid form of symptomatic fever is that which has been by far most frequently noticed in hospital gangrene, and in reference to which the constitutional treatment of the disease has most generally been conducted. But there can be no doubt that the fever is sometimes of a decidedly inflammatory cha- racter. “ When hospital gangrene occurs in a recent wound, and in young healthy men, or in men of the middle period of life, who are most frequently the subjects of it, the accom- panying fever,” says Dr. Boggie, “ is almost always inflammatory. I have seen but few exceptions to this. Indeed it is not easy to conceive how so many should have adopted the contrary opinion.” This intelligent sur- geon admits, however, that soldiers, who from great sutferings and constant defeats have be- come dejected, are less liable to the inflam- matory form of symptomatic fever, than those who, from a series of brilliant victories, are in a state both of bodily and mental excitement. Dr. Hennen conceived that the epidemic of Bilbao commenced as a typhoid affection, and assumed in its progress, more and more of an inflammatory character; but Dr. Bog- gie seems to have been satisfied that the inflammatory character, though overlooked, existed from an early period of the epidemic. There seems nothing unreasonable, however, in supposing that a change of this kind may actually occur,—that an epidemic of hospital gangrene, commencing as inflammatory, may in its progress assume a more or less deci- dedly typhoid character. The not attending sufficiently to the phlogistic or typhoid cha- racter of the fever accompanying hospital gangrene, has, probably, often led to fatal mistakes; and seems to be, partly at least, the cause of that great diversity of opinion which subsists among medical men regarding the best mode of treating this very dangerous affec- tion '. Roggic. Whether the typhoid or inflammatory cha- racter of the fever attending hospital gan- grene shall prevail, there is frequently in this disease, as in erysipelas, with which it has many features in common, a complication of bilious derangement, as manifested by foulness of tongue, bitterness in the mouth, decrease of appetite, and eventually loathing of food. These symptoms may occur, too, in cases in which there is little or no pyrexial disturbance. The nature of the climate and season may be expected to exercise considerable influence upon the character of the symptomatic fever. Dr. Adam, in his account of an epidemic hospital gangrene that prevailed among the native troops in cantonment at Hussingabad in the Nurbudda, in 1818, mentions, that the sloughing character did not supervene to the fever, but the fever to the peculiar condition of the sore : “ As the sloughing advanced,” says he, “ the pulse became quick, and parti- cularly hard; the skin hot, and the tongue furred, of a deep white colour, but not loaded. The general symptoms at this stage were such as mark a high degree of the remittent fever of the natives. In no instance did it exhibit any regular intermitting form.” When hospital gangrene has a fatal ter- mination, the period at which this occurs, and the manner in which it is brought about, are extremely different in different individuals. In some, the fever continues with unabated violence for a period of one or two weeks. After suffering an abatement it is liable to recur ; and the patient sometimes sinks under a second or third attack. When the affection has been very severe, has continued long, or has returned frequently, the patient becomes at last generally affected with hectic fever and obstinate diarrhoea; this is a slate from which, if patients recover, it is always in a very slow and tedious manner. (Thomson’s Lectures, p. 460, 461.) Dr. Hennen, after describing the strong tendency to haemorrhagic effusion which manifested itself in the third stage of the Bilbao epidemic, says; “ incessant retch- ings soon came on, and with coma, involun- tary stools, and hiccup, closed the scene. Often, however, the patient survived this acute state of the disease, and sank under severe irritation, absorption of putrid matter, and extensive loss of substance, without any other symptoms than those of hectic fever arising from other sources.” Predisposing causes.—We have every rea- son from analogy to believe, that particular circumstances may exert a powerful influ- ence over the tendency of individuals, or of groups of individuals, to become affected with hospital gangrene ; or, in other words, may modify their predisposition to this affec- tion. In the same way the same or other circumstances may determine the particular characters which the disease, when it attacks a more or less considerable body of indi- viduals, shall exhibit. What the precise predisposing and modifying causes of hospital gangrene are, is a point, respecting which D o' voi.. n.