622 CANCER, PATHOLOGY OF. loid originates even primarily in the same situation. The tissues and organs which are very rarely affected primarily, may easily be enu- merated without much apprehension of error : to this category would belong, in addition to the parts named by Dr. Carswell, the spleen, the larynx, the heart, and the lymphatic glands. It has indeed been a currently received opinion that the affection is always secondary in the last mentioned parts ; that carcinoma is occasionally, however, exclusively developed in those organs, is a fact supported by the testimony of Walther, Wardrop, Tra- vers, Recamier, Carswell, Littre, Warren, Jiiger, and others. We are not acquainted with any instance in which the fibro-cartilagin- ous, ligamentous, or tendinous tissues have been found cancerous, except as a result of communication from a contiguous tissue. Are there, on the other hand, any structures in which, though liable to become the primary seat of the disease, secondary development is not observed to occur ? This query must de- cidedly be answered in the negative, more especially with regard to extension by con- tiguity of tissue. Secondary affection of some organs, as a result of its existence in distant parts, is nevertheless remarkable for rarity: M . Cruveilhier states that consecu- tive cancer of the ovaries is thus charac- terized ; and secondary affection of the uterus is, though more frequently observed, still extremely uncommon. Secondary carcinoma is, in the majority of cases, of the encephaloid species ; scirrhus is, however, far from uncommon, and colloid has been met with. The disease under these circumstances usually assumes the dissemi- nated tuberous form, especially in the liver, lungs, and bones. On the subpleural pul- monary surface it frequently manifests itself in the form of flattened cartilaginous-looking patches. The consecutive development does not ap- pear to spread from organ to organ according to any regular law. Published cases exhibit, on the contrary, every variety of combination of parts secondarily diseased. And in respect of the two organs most frequently thus affected, though the liver ordinarily suffers more extensively than the lungs, and though when the disease exists in both, its develop- ment in the former seems almost always (when the point is capable of decision) to have been prior to that in the latter, yet this is by no means invariably observed. With respect to the relative tendency of different organs, when cancerous, to infect the economy generally, there can be little doubt that the mamma holds the first, place. It is difficult to point out any special cause for this peculiarity ; indeed in all probability none such exists. M. Cruveilhier conjectures that it may depend on the fact that even ex- tensive disorganization of the mamma does not directly pioduce disturbance of any im- portant function, a circumstance which al- lows the disease full time and scope for complete evolution. The justness of this suggestion could only be satisfactorily ascer- tained by comparing the mean duration of cancer of the mamma with that of other organs: these quantities are unfortunately un- known. Numerous d priori considerations might be urged against M. Cruveilhier’s hypo- thesis. On the other hand uterine carcinoma rarely entails general contamination of the system ; to such a degree is this true, that M. Cruveilhier makes it the ground for ques- tioning whether in a case of coexisting encc- phaloid of the brain and of the pultaceous cancer of the uterus, the former, though— judging from symptoms—developed after the latter, in anywise depended on its prior ex- istence. As the mean duration of uterine cancer appears from the inquiries of Mr. Lever to be about twenty months, the rarity of consecutive development in its course argues in favour of the opinion of the French pathologist just stated. This same expe- rienced observer represents carcinoma of the rectum as being habitually unaccompanied with general infection. The different species of cancer exhibit unequal proneness to the production of secon- dary growths. Observers agree in assigning colloid the lowest rank in this respect: that scirrhus holds the first would appear to follow from the fact that this is the species of far most frequent occurrence in the mamma. Ne- vertheless encephaloid tumours, especially as developed in the extremities, stomach, and testicle, may be said to possess superior in- fluence. Numerical evidence on this, as on almost every other point in the history of carcinoma, is yet a desideratum. It is as- suredly more common to find a number of organs in the same individual affected with encephaloid than with scirrhus : but it does not hence follow that the primary disease was of the encephaloid type, and many such cases of multiple formation may in truth belong to the category alluded to in the following paragraph. (c.) The reader has probably felt inclined to ask, where is the proof that, in the cases of general infection adverted to, the growths which we have considered to be developed consecutively to another or others, really possess such relation thereto ? Is it not quite as likely that, in some cases at least, the presence of heterologous growths in numerous organs may depend on their simul- taneous development. Unquestionably such is the truth in a greater share of instances than the language of reporters of cases would lead us to suppose. There can be no doubt that internal cancer is frequently described as consecutive to an external one, (especially when the latter has been removed with the knife, and the former has not manifested its existence by symptoms until after the opera- tion) when no proof of its not having co- originated with it can possibly be adduced. The fact of succession in the development