ALVINE CONCRETION. 70 grains of sand adhering to each other by seve- ral small fibres. In the upper part of some of the concretions many distinct white shining crystals are visible. By exposure to the air, the internal part of the concretion acquires a darker colour. From what has been stated as to the struc- ture of alvine concretions, it is probable that these substances are formed upon an extra- neous body, and also that they increase in bulk, in consequence of the deposition of suc- cessive strata; and as such they are justly called concretions, being composed of parts of the food or other substances, deposited in their passage through the alimentary canal. In order to throw farther light upon the nature of concretions of the first class, I sub- join a description of the more common kind, drawn up according to the manner of Werner, by my colleague, Professor Jameson :— “ No. 1.—Colour of the cut surface, inter- mediate between yellowish brown and chesnut brown ; shape, tuberose, and perforated; lus- tre, dull ; fracture, delicate, promiscuous fi- brous ; transparency, opaque ; streak, not al- tered in the streak ; hardness, yields readily to the nail, and receives an impression from the finger ; tenacity, sectile ; frangibility, diffi- cultly frangible ; feel, feels fine and rather meagre. Is light. “ N. B.—The external shape is coated with a dark brown coloured crust, which is soft, brittle, resinous in the streak, and fight. Some parts of this crust are covered with an ash- grey coloured crust, which is softer than the brown crust, and is sectile. Chemical analysis of alvine concretions.—Mor- gagni ', Van Swieten, Lassus1 2, and Riche- rand, have supposed these substances to be indurated faeces. Cadet3 and Portal * are the only authors whose experiments on this branch of the sub- ject merit mention. But Cadet made his ex- eriments when chemistry may be said to ave been in its infant state, for chemical analysis had not arrived at the perfection it has now attained ; and I must doubt whether Portal was sufficiently qualified as a chemist for undertaking the analysis of such compound substances as alvine concretions ; and whether his experiments were of such a kind as to en- able him to draw just conclusions respecting their nature. If the experiments of Cadet, who was a distinguished chemist of his day, were rude and imperfect, we may reasonably infer that those of Portal are liable to still greater objections. Under these circumstances I thought it of great, moment that some competent modern chemist should examine the large collection of alvine concretions formed by my father, with the view of determining whether they are merely the indigestible part of the food, or an agglutination of the various substances licked off, from the animal’s skin, earth or any other 1 Epist. 37. 5 Patholog. Chirurg. 3 Mem. de l'Acad. Royal. de Chir. tom. iii. p. 15. * Anat. Med. tom. v. substance the animal may have chanced to swallow along with its food, or substances sui generis, and totally different from any other animal or vegetable production. In the collection above alluded to, there are forty-two specimens of alvine concretions which were obtained from the human body, several of which I was so fortunate as to pre- vail upon Dr. T. Thomson to examine. His labours have thrown much new fight upon the subject, as the reader will find from the an- nexed report which he sent me. “ The calculi which I examined are of a much more compound nature than I expected, and contain two substances, of a nature quite peculiar, or at least with which I was not be- fore acquainted. The following observations will convey a general idea of their nature and composition. “ 1st. At first, they swim in water ; but that is owing to their numerous pores being filled with air ; as soon as it is expelled, they sink to the bottom and remain there. The spe- cific gravity I found to vary in different spe- cimens, from P376 to l-540. I consider I •400 as about the average specific gravity of the whole. “ 2d. When left in cold water they soon com- municate to it a brownish tinge. The water was found to have taken up the following" substances :—1. Albumen, which was sepa- rated in white flakes by boiling the water. 2. A brown substance, which I consider as peculiar ; it dissolved, at first, in water, but became nearly insoluble by the slow evapora- tion of the liquid ; it dissolved in alcohol ; it approached most nearly, in its properties, to vegetable extractive ; but the quantity which I obtained was too small for an exact examination. 3. Common salt, which crys- tallized when the water was allowed to evapo- rate spontaneously in an open vessel. 4. Phosphate of lime, which was precipitated by ammonia. 5. Sulphate of soda, in a very mi- nute proportion. 6. Perhaps, also, sulphate of lime ; but the quantity of this salt must have been very small. “ 3rd. Alcohol dissolved the peculiar brown matter, and some of the salts, but extracted nothing particular. “ 4th. Potash ley separated the albumen, the brown matter, and perhaps some of the salts. “ 5th. Muriatic acid separated a notable proportion of phosphate of lime. “ 6th. After the action of all these re-agents, there remained behind a peculiar substance, having the colour and texture of the calculus. Ten grains of calculus left 1"2 grains of this matter ; it was very fight, having the appear- ance of cork, or rather, of the peculiar fungus, which is used on the continent for tinder, and which the French call amadou; it was in very short threads. This substance is taste- less, insoluble in water, alcohol, aether, potash ley, and muriatic acid : it blackens sulphuric acid, and is dissolved, being partly reduced to charcoal. In nitric acid it dissolves very slowly, and only when assisted by heat, and