56' CALCULUS. that other things being the same, the deposit of lithic acid from the urine was much more constant and copious when he kept himself close to the house, than when he went abroad and used active exercise. Sir B. Brodie1 re- lates, that a gentleman of his acquaintance never suffered any inconvenience from the free life he led in eating and drinking, so long I as he took plenty of exercise, he being in the habit of rising early in the morning, walking lustily, and returning home to breakfast per- spiring profusely. On a change of circum- I stances, however, in which he continued to eat and drink as before, but ceased to rise early and to take his long walks, he became subject to red sand in his urine, and to a scaly j eruption of his skin. Some have even become ' obnoxious to the consequences of the state of urine that engages us, namely, gravel and cal- culus, after a confinement of a few weeks’ or I months’ duration on account of an accident. Thus Van Swieten relates that a man who had lain on his back for ten weeks in consequence of a fractured thigh, suffered an attack of ne- phritic colic shortly after his recovery, and by and by passed a small rough calculous concre- tion. Nor did the mischief end here, for the individual became subject to recurrences of this malady ever afterwards. Anothey cause of a lithic state of the urine, and the deposition of the insoluble acid cha- racterizing it, which was particularly insisted on by the late Mr. Earle2, is local injury done to the kidney or to the lumbar region. A more common consequence of injury to the lumbar region, is the state of urine which will be particularly described in the next section ; it is that in which the phosphatic salts are elaborated in preternatural quantity and de- posited from the urine. Nevertheless, Mr. Earle has given several interesting cases, in which the lithic diathesis certainly followed injury to the region of the loins ; and it is not unreasonable to suppose, that the effect of this may have been to induce in the kidney that peculiar morbid state which is marked by the formation of lithic acid in excess. In persons subject to the lithic acid diathesis, when it goes the length of a deposit within the body, we often have occasion to observe, that the uneasiness and pain complained of are confined to one side only. Were the malady entirely constitutional, both kidneys would be impli- cated ; but gravelly subjects frequently go on for years, passing concretions from time to time from one kidney only. The state of the kidney in its individual capacity ought not, therefore, to be overlooked. This is an im- portant hint, for which we are indebted to Mr. Earle, and which has probably been too much neglected in the medical treatment of calcu- lous diatheses generally. In his very ingenious Essay on Gravel, M. 1 Lectures on the Diseases of the Uriuary Organs. 2nd Ed. tivo. Loud. 1835. ‘ 6 2 Med. Chir. Trans, vol. xi. Magendie', among other causes tending to induce a deposition of solid matters from the urine, reckons a diminished temperature of the body, which he believes to be proper to the aged. By actual experiment he found the temperature of the axilla in men above sixty to be seldom above 36° C. or 96°.5 F. nearly. The urine projected upon the thermometer he found no higher than 30° C., about 86° F., or ten degrees of the latter scale under the tem- perature proper to the vigour of life. Ten de- grees of temperature must certainly have some influence on the solvent powers of the urinous menstruum. These experiments of M. Ma- gendie have been confirmed by others re- ported by M. Chevallier2, who remarked that the temperature of the urine in children was low, that of adults higher, and that of the aged again low. The urine of a healthy man aged fifty-five was no higher than 33° C,"or 91°.5 F. There is still another cause of the pro- duction and precipitation of lithic acid and its salts from the urine, the importance of which cannot be overlooked in numerous instances, and which is probably of more moment than all the others put together. This is the in- herent peculiarity of constitution which all testimony concurs in showing to be of the same essential nature as that with which gout is associated. Gout, however, is itself very uniformly the creation of easy circumstances and over-indulgence of the animal appetites of hunger and thirst. The laborious poor are rarely its subjects, and in the savage state, where life appears to be passed in a perpetual struggle for means to satisfy the cravings of hunger, the disease is unknown. The two constitutions, the gravelly and the gouty, as they are so commonly and so intimately asso- ciated, undoubtedly derive their origin from the same source. In addition to these internal causes, in- ducing that state of urine in which the lithic acid and its salts are deposited, it is impossible to overlook the influence of certain external circumstances which have unquestionably a very potent sway over the same state of things. Among the principal of these is temperature. In lands and districts where the diurnal varia- tions of temperature are small, calculous com- plaints, which may be said to be all but invari- ably consequences of a lithic state of the urine, are rarely met with. In latitudes and dis- tricts, again, where these changes are greatest, they certainly occur most frequently. Ex- tensive annual variations of temperature seem to have less influence than sudden alternations of heat and cold from day to day, and great inequality in the temperature of the nights and days, llenal diseases of all kinds are very frequently referable to exposure to cold, and the state of urine in which lithic acid and the 1 Rcclicrchcs sur la Gravelle, 8vo. Paris, 1818. 2 Essai sur la Dissolution tie la Gravelle. Paris, 1837.