ANEURISM. SI 3 other tumours are, on their first appearance, of firmer consistence, and pressure produces no diminution in their size. An aneurism, as it increases in bulk, increases also in density, and the increase in its firmness commences at the circumference of the tumour and gra- dually extends towards the centre. In a tumour which has become soft by the process of suppuration, the fluctuation is on the con- trary, first perceived in the centre, and gra- dually extends to the circumference of the swelling, and, therefore, the longer the tumour has existed, the softer will it generally be. The pulsations of an aneurism cannot be changed by any alterations in the position of the affected limb, but those of a tumour situa- ted on the course of an artery will be altered by a change in the position of the limb, the tumour being displaced, the pulsations of the artery cease to be communicated to it; or a tumour may be distinguished from an aneurism by elevating the swelling from the artery from which it derives its pulsations. The smaller the tumour and the more re- cent its formation, the more distinct will be the pulsations of an aneurism ; but the pulsa- tions of other swellings are more evident in proportion to their size, owing to the greater degree of pressure which they exert on the subjacent vessels. Before much coagulum is deposited within the sac, in an aneurism, the pulsation is felt equally throughout the whole circumference of the tumour; and as it increases in size, and the coagulum becomes deposited in greater quantity in the sac, the pulsation will be felt only at the centre of the swelling ; in a still more advanced state of the disease, when there is a thick coagulum deposited, the pul- sations are obscure or not at all perceptible. The movement discernible in a tumour placed on the course of an artery is not that effort of dilatation which an aneurism presents, but a lifting or displacing of the whole mass of the swelling. When collections of purulent matter form in the vicinity of an artery, the vessel com- municates a motion to the fluid in the tumour similar to that of an aneurism; and the diag- nosis is rendered very difficult, if there have not been symptoms which would lead to sus- pect the formation of pus. In order to distinguish between an aneur- ism and an abscess formed in the course of an artery, we must remember that the latter is preceded by certain local and general symp- toms, more or less evident, such as inflamma- tion, rigor, &c., that the tumour, when pressed upon, remains unchanged as to bulk, and that it is clastic. In the case of a cyst, the mis- take is less likely to be made ; for though in ancurismal tumours of long standing, the cir- cumference feels hard, owing to the laminated deposits of fibrine, still its centre will afford signs of fluidity, and its size will be increased or diminished according as pressure is made either oil its cardiac or capillary side. It also sometimes happens that an ancurismal tumour in its progress to the surface, gives rise to in- flammation of the cellular tissue, and the form- ation of an abscess : here the purulent collec- tion masks the more serious affection, and an error of diagnosis may be easily committed. In such cases, whether the pus be evacuated or not, the progress of the aneurismal tumour becomes very rapid, and prompt measures must be resorted to, in order to save the pa- tient from the haemorrhage, which is immi- nent. The diagnostic, as in the former in- stance, can only be guarded by referring to the history of the case. When, notwithstanding our best endea- vours, we are not fortunate enough to remove all doubts, and more especially if the tumour has been stationary for some time, it will be best to abstain from any interference with it ; time, and repeated examinations in every va- riety of posture, will often dispel the obscu- rity. But if, on the other hand, the tumour continue to make such progress that, if left to itself, it must soon be beyond the reach of art, the pain becoming intolerable, and the limb cedematous ; in a word, if more serious mis- chief threatens to result from our leaving the tumour to itself, than can follow from an at- tempt to clear up the diagnosis, then it will be justifiable to make an exploratory puncture with a needle, or small trocar. The surgeon will have only to act according to the indica- tion he obtains. Should it be arterial blood, the case becomes clear. The small puncture will not give rise to haemorrhage, if it be firmly covered with adhesive plaster. But after this, delay would not only be improper, but dangerous. He must concert the mea- sures to be taken, and carry them into effect, after as brief a period of preparation as the circumstances of the case may require. The advantage in an obscure case of re- peated examinations of the tumour after inter- vals of several days is this, that the pulsation may be present at one time, and absent at an- other, a circumstance which is easily explain- ed : the pulsation is strong when the commu- nication between the artery and the sac is free; but if the opening be small, and blocked up by a coagulum, the thrill will be obscure, and often imperceptible, until the coagulum becomes displaced. When all the signs of an aneurism are equi- vocal, the stethoscope may be of use, and will often enable us, even in advanced cases, to detect the bellows’, or rasp sound, produced by the entrance and exit of the blood in the tumour at each contraction of the heart. There can be no more convincing proof of the difficulty of forming a diagnosis of aneur- ism, than the fact that in some cases very con- tradictory opinions have been given by emi- nent practitioners. A female had a tumour about the bulk of a hen’s egg, which formed in the site of the subclavian artery ; and such was the difficulty in ascertaining its true nature, that one surgeon was of opinion it was an aneurism ; another thought it was a glandular swelling; a third suspected it to be an aneur-