CHONDRITIS. 770 stage : the pain is more confined in its situa- tion ; aggravated in a less degree by motion of the joint, but in a greater by superficial pressure over the seat of pain : it does not increase to the same severe extent, nor is it accompanied by the startings of the limb : it is not so much relieved by rest. It will be remembered also that generally speaking it is some months before suppuration takes place from cartilaginous disease. Sir Benjamin Brodie states that a large ma- jority of the cases of suspected diseased joints which occur in fashionable practice are nothing more than neuralgic affections. The same as- sertion may be made with perfect accuracy in the case of certain unfortunate females, who frequently fall under the observation of the general practitioner. Their irregular habits of life ; the mental distress many of them suffer ; the state of nervous excitement com- mon to the order ; and its increase by means of ardent spirits in the large majority, induce a state of system which predisposes to dis- eases of the same character as those which result from more refined dissipation. The most severe pain is felt in the neighbourhood of some joint, and as this is for some time un- accompanied by other symptoms, it is more likely to be mistaken for ulceration of carti- lage than any thing else. The diagnosis, however, is not difficult. The general ap- pearance of the patient is that of an hysteric nervously excitable person—her mode of life is probably such as tends to exhaust or cause irregular distribution of nervous influence— probably there is neuralgia in other parts,— but even suppose, as is sometimes the case, the patient appears florid and healthy, even then the symptoms are characteristic. The pain at first comes on in paroxysms, the inter- missions being perfect ; it is evidently seated in the integuments ; there is extreme tender- ness on the slightest touch, while on con- tinuing the pressure, considerable force may be exerted, and the pain be thus removed. The pain is not confined to the joint, and remains for a considerable time without other evidence of local disease, and when swelling- does come on, it is a diffused oedema. Fre- quently extensive motion of the joint can be borne without pain. These marks are quite sufficient to establish our diagnosis, but we must avoid the other extreme, and not be led by the presence of neuralgia to infer the ab- sence of organic disease. As far as my per- sonal observation has gone, I should be led to doubt the position that simple morbid irrita- bility of any tissue can continue for any con- siderable length of time, without inducing increased arterial action. Having described the symptoms by which ulceration of cartilage may be discovered and distinguished from diseases for which it is liable to be mistaken, it may be well before proceeding to the subject of treatment, to allude to the morbid appearances observed in joints so affected. In this, as in the other departments of the subject, we purposely abstain from speaking of the disease as it occurs in the hip-joint. It will be treated in a separate article under that head. If an opportunity be obtained of examining the joint of a person who has died in an early stage of this disease, it is found that the ulcer has commenced on the free surface of the car- tilage, and towards its centre. Pus is by no means necessarily present. Vascularity is not evident to the unassisted eye, and the bone and synovial membrane are healthy. The ulcer is a mere excavation, generally super- ficial, with irregular edges, the surrounding portion of cartilage being healthy, or only slightly altered in colour. In the more advanced stages of the disease the other structures participate in the morbid action. Thus in the knee, though occasionally the cartilages have been found in a state of ulceration, or even completely removed, nei- ther the bone nor synovial membrane being af- fected, the bones are more frequently carious, and the synovial membrane has undergone im- portant structural changes. The cartilages and synovial membrane have also been found com- pletely absent, the tibia and femur being con- nected together by processes of organized lymph. In the ankle the chronic ulceration of cartilage is almost invariably connected with strumous caries of the heads of the tibia and fibula, or of some of the tarsal bones. In the wrist joint, the carpal, carpo-metacarpal, meta- carpo-phalangeal, and phalangeal articulations, ulceration of cartilage is rarely a primary disease, but frequently an effect of injury, strumous or malignant disease of the bones, neglected paronychia, or the deposit of lithate of soda under the influence of the gouty diathesis. Any of these cartilages may be found in a state varying from the existence of a simple ulcer to a total removal, in which case ankylosis by means of a fibro-cellular substance is common : but occasionally the place of the cartilage is filled by porcelainous deposit. Sometimes when acute synovitis has existed in the elbow-joint, and oppor- tunity occurs for post mortem examination, the cartilages are found to have enjoyed a remarkable immunity from disease, preserving their natural colour and texture throughout, while the synovial membrane has undergone extensive morbid changes. We remember a case of this kind where the only change in the cartilage was, that it had become of the colour of horn, its consistence remaining un- altered. It is occasionally seen softened in patches, the softened portions being raised from the bone by an organized substance between the bone and the osseous surface of the cartilage. The softened portions arc sometimes perfectly detached, floating in the cavity of the articulation, and in old standing cases the bones are entirely denuded. Mr. Adams of Dublin has described a condition of the elbow-joint, which is very far from un- common, depending on chronic rheumatism, where “ the cartilages are removed from the heads of the bones, which are greatly en- larged, and their articular surfaces are covered by a smooth porcclain-like deposit, and after