95 EMPYEMA. and unpreceded by the two modes of change already described, or simultaneously with the latter of them, accumulation of liquid com- mences. Practically it is found that in the great majority of cases effusion sets in with the establishment of inflammation. The fluid is of serous character commonly, varying in colour and transparence with the amount of albuminous particles exuded by or detached from the inflamed surface and floating in it When these are in much abundance, the fluid acquires a lactiform appearance, to such a degree that the older observers acutually be- lieved it to be impregnated with milk. The quantity of fluid thrown out varies exceed- ingly, both actually and relatively to that of plastic matter, as does the rapidity with which it accumulates : these are determined by the activity of the inflammation and the constitu- tional condition of the patient. In some cases the effused fluid loses its turbid aspect more or less in consequence of the particles previously suspended becoming adherent to the surface. It is capable of a sort of coagu- lation or gelatinization, when removed from the chest. Haemorrhage into the pleura sometimes ac- companies serous effusion,—a complication to which exaggerated importance was attached by Laennec in respect of the progress and issue of the disease. The quantity of blood is usually insufficient to do more than tinge the serosity, and sometimes the plastic matter by imbibition ; but in rare instances coagula, even of large size, are found, and cases have been known in which the fluid evacuated by operation has had so decidedly the characters of pure blood, that the operator at first sup- posed he had wounded some important vessel. It was Laennec’s opinion, and this has been repeated by subsequent writers, that blood, when thrown out, is extravasated at an ad- vanced period rather than at the outset of the disease : the facts upon which this notion is founded have not been explicitly stated. We have never observed gangrene of the pleura as a consequence of idiopathic in- flammation of this membrane ; it appears, however, in very rare instances to have been met with. The changes undergone by traumatic effu- sions will be considered in the article Hemo- thorax. The lung is diminished in size in propor- tion to the pressure it suffers from the fluid : when this is very abundant, the organ con- tains scarcely any air or blood, is flaccid, dense, non-crepitant, firm, and of a coriaceous feel, does not give way under the thumb when pressed, has a non-granular fracture, and on section exhibits a smooth surface of dark greyish colour, speckled with dull red points or striae, and may be increased in volume by 1 It seems not improbable that the turbidity may be in some measure due to desquamation of epithelial cells from the serous surface; but of this conjecture we have not yet had an opportunity of ascertaining the correctness. inflation ; all of them the characters of simple pulmonary condensation. The lung under these circumstances lies close to the spine. IV. Period of Absorption. In the ordinary course of things, and when individuals enjoy- ing perfect health at the period of attack are subjects of the disease, this commonly neither proves fatal, nor lapses into the chronic state (Louis) : a natural cure is effected by ab- sorption of the liquid effusion and organiza- tion of the solid exudation. The period at which the curative process commences varies however; and with this, as well as with cer- tain anatomical conditions of the effusion, will vary the subsequent condition of the organs and parts involved. 1. If, on the one hand, the disease have run a rapid course, so that the resiliency of the lung shall not have been seriously impaired by the pressure it has undergone, and if, on the other, the false membrane do not embrace any considerable extent of the lung, so that the contraction of this adventitious product, attendant upon its organization, shall not throw a mechanical ob- stacle in the way of pulmonary expansion, the implicated side of the chest will regain, as re- gards all functional processes, its healthy con- dition. The lung will expand in proportion to the removal of the fluid, and the only vestiges of the disease appear in the existence of ad- hesions between the laminae of the pleura. 2. If the contrary conditions exist, the lung never regains its original properties, though all fluid have disappeared, because from pro- tracted compression its power of expansibility is completely destroyed, or because its being invested by dense membrane prevents that power from coming into action. At this period the plastic matter having gone through the processes of vascularization &c. elsewhere described, (See Pseudo-mem- brane,) commonly possesses the characters of serous tissue, binding the pleural laminae together, and capable, like that of original for- mation, of undergoing inflammation and giving rise to plastic exudation. In other cases it undergoes transformation into fibrous, fibro- cartilaginous, cartilaginiform, or ossiform tissue. These latter modes of change were supposed by Laennec to arise exclusively, or almost exclusively, in cases where haemorrhage had complicated effusion, an opinion now recog- nised to be unfounded. By dissection the false membrane may be separated from the pleural tissue in all cases, until the transfor- mations referred to are actually in progress. Under the circumstances now detailed, the disease must be said to be cured, because the existing state is perfectly compatible with, though not always ensuring, sound health. But in certain cases, more especially when the constitution is vitiated by organic disease, the course of things is different; either the malady, (setting aside cases in which it proves fatal,) acute at the outset, lapses into the chronic state, or it wears ah initio the character of asthenia and chronicity : in neither case is any tendency to absorption exhibited, and the