BONE, DISEASES OF. 499 will be described under the beads Cupping and Leeches. Bibliography.—Galen, Dc Venoe Scctione. De Curandi Ratione per Missionem Sanguinis. Dotal, De Curatione per Sanguinis Missionem. Lugduni, 1.577. Moreau, De Missione Sanguinis in Pleuritide. Paris, 1622. Jfecquet, Explication Physique et Me- caniquc des effets de la Saignee. Paris, 1707. Silva, Traite de PUsage des differentes especes de Saignee. Paris, 1727. Dutler, Essay on Blood-letting. London, 1734. Martin, Traite dc la Phlebotomie et de l’Ar- teriotomie. Paris, 1741. Walbaum, De Venesectione. Gott. 1749. In Haller’s Disp. Chir. p. 447. Ques- nay, Traite des effets et dc l’usage de la Saignee. Paris, 1750. David, Recherches sur la maniere d’agirde la Saignee. Paris, 1762. Vaidy, Tentamen medicum de usu etabusu Venae Sectionis. Paris, 1803. Vacca Derlinghieri, De un nuovopotere della Missione del Sangue per la cura de alcune malittie. Pisa, 1804. Leroy, Manuel de la Saignee. Paris, 1807. Montain, Des effets des differentes especes d’Evacuations San- guines artificielles. Lyon, 1810. Delinet, Reflexions sur la Saignee. Genes, 1810. Fatichier, Des Indica- tions de la Saignee. Paris, 1810. Mills, Essay on the utility of Blood-letting in Fevers. Dublin, 1813. Vieusseiuc, De la Saignee et de son usage dans la plu- part des maladies. Paris, 1815. Ahemethy, Essay on the ill consequences following Venesection. Fnke.au, Traite elementaire sur Templed legitime etmethodiquc des Emissions Sanguines. Nantes, 1816. Aulia, Tra- tatto eompleto del Salasso. Napoli, 1819. Lisfranc, Nouvellcs Considerations sur la Saignee du bras. Paris, 1823. Poliniere, Etudes Cliniques sur les Emissions Sanguines. Paris, 1827. Ch. A. Louis, Rocherches sur les effets de la Saignee dans quelques maladies inflammatoires. Paris, 1835. ( W. B. Costello.) BOIL, see Furunculcs. BONE, DISEASES OF. (<Wok, Gr.; os, Lat.; Bein, Ger.; os, Fr.) The physical properties of bone in a healthy state, are such as render it admirably adapted for the offices it fulfils in the animal economy. It serves to protect delicate organs; it affords a series of levers, by means of which the muscles execute the commands of the will; it is a general and permanent model for the figure, and a firm sup- port for the body. For these purposes it is formed very hard and tough, slightly flexible and elastic. Were its hardness less, its flexi- bility greater, strong efforts could not be per- formed, and the limbs would yield under the weight of the trunk. On the other hand, if it were destitute of elasticity, shocks it now supports with impunity, would suffice for its destruction, and that of the important organs it is framed to protect. This union of hardness and flexibility results in a great measure from its chemical composi- tion. It consists of an animal framework in which earthy and saline matter is deposited. It is to the former it owes its elasticity, to the latter its hardness ; for if the animal matter be removed by calcination, or digestion in a solu- tion of caustic potass, the bone becomes ex- tremely brittle and friable, while if the inor- ganic substance be dissolved by a solution of hydrochloric acid, a bone of moderate length can be readily twisted into a knot. Berzelius states that in a hundred parts of adult bone, about thirty-three are animal, sixty-six earthy and saline matters. Dr. John Davy pointed out that the quantity of inorganic matter be- came greater as age advanced. This is exactly in accordance with the habits, wants, and powers of the subject; and on carrying out the question in the animal kingdom, it is found that the relative proportions of the constituents of bone in the various classes of animals, are beautifully arranged, to afford such a degree of strength and power on the one hand, or of flexibility on the other, as may secure their physical well-being in the most perfect manner. Schreger, who has followed up the researches of Davy, states that in the bones of children, one half is animal matter, in the adult only a fifth, and but an eighth in the old person. The structure of bone also affords a con- vincing proof of design in the manner in which great strength is secured without bulk, and in some parts a large surface without inconvenient weight. It would not only be out of place, but premature to discuss the minute structure of bone, the ultimate arrangement of its com- ponent particles, before the investigations of Deutsch, Purkinje, and Miescher, shall have been fully carried out. It is sufficient for our purpose to state, that the texture of bone differs greatly in its different portions. The outer portion consists of a layer of very dense and compact structure ; the internal, of an areolar or spongy substance. The square bones and the articular extremities of the long bones have the outer layer thin, the internal cancel- lated structure thick and strong. The shafts of long bones have the outer layer very thick, the internal laminae exceedingly delicate. In the flat bones there are two layers of compact tissue, the cancellated structure being between them and there termed diploe. This difference of texture results merely from the different arrangement of the laminae or fibres, which are closely aggregated in the compact, but more separated in the looser tissue, forming inter- mediate cells. By this contrivance symmetry is preserved without loss of power, vibrations which would injure important organs are broken, and the vital forces are economized. With a few obvious exceptions, every part of the surface of bone is covered by a fibrous membrane periosteum, the vessels of which can be shown by injection. They freely anastomose with those of the surrounding tex- tures, and with branches of the medullary ar- tery in the substance of the bone. The prin- cipal use of the periosteum is to serve as a bed in which the vessels may ramify before they enter the bone. Hence the bone is in a great degree dependent on the integrity of this mem- brane for its supply of blood, and we can there- fore readily perceive the important influence it must exert over the diseases of bone ; for if it be removed to any extent, a superficial layer of bone almost invariably dies. It is also an efficient agent in the growth of bone, and the reparation of fractures. A tubular cavity exists in the shafts of the long bones, which is lined by a fine membrane, composed of the minute ramifications of blood- K k 2