CATARACT. in the posterior part of its capsule, by moving the handle of the needle upwards and for- wards. The lens will then be placed in the vitreous humour below the axis of vision, and having its posterior surface downwards, the anterior surface upwards. After this is ac- complished, the point of the needle should be brought forward to lacerate the centre of the anterior part of the capsule, if it still remains entire, that secondary capsular cataract may be prevented, as recommended by Scarpa. Third stage. — The cataract having been depressed, the point of the needle is to be elevated, and gradually withdrawn from the eye in the same manner in which it was intro- duced, care being taken to observe whether or not the lens rises again along with the needle before it is withdrawn from the eye, in order that if it does, it may be again de- pressed. The removal of the capsule, as well as the lens, from the axis of vision, is to be desired in this operation, to prevent a secondary capsular cataract from supervening. In some cases it is depressed along with the lens, fig. 27. but in other cases it remains merely torn, fig. 28, and the remaining portions of it being elastic, be- come so contracted that they do not obstruct vision. But the point of the needle may in all cases be turned towards thecorneabefore with- drawing it, and turned round in the pupil upon its axis, by which the division of the capsule will be accomplished if it still remains in situ. The reclination, or partial depression of the lens, is performed precisely in a similar man- ner to the couching or complete depression of it, except that when the point of the needle is placed upon the upper and anterior part of the lens, in order to depress it, the handle of the needle should be elevated forwards and upwards, so that the point of the needle may be pressed backwards in effecting the depres- sion. By this operation the anterior part of the lens becomes the superior, and the poste- rior the inferior part. This new position of the lens is shown in fig. 22, b, having been removed from its natural situation a. By this operation the lens is placed below the axis of vision, and being imbedded in the vitreous humour, does not in general rise from this situation. In performing these operations for the dis- placement of the lens, care must be taken not to transfix or spit the lens in introducing the needle into the eye, by which it would be pre- maturely displaced, and the motions of the needle embarrassed : from this situation it is necessary to disentangle the needle by being partially withdrawn. When the lens is pre- maturely loosened from its situation it is very difficult either to break it up or to depress it. In depressing the lens, if the pupil is pulled to one side so as to render it oval, the lens will be adhering to the iris, and must be separated. If the lens has been unexpectedly found to be soft, so that the needle passes through it in place of depressing it, the ante- rior part of the capsule is to be freely lace- VOL. i. rated to admit the aqueous humour, that the lens may be removed by absorption. 2. Depression and Reclination through the Cornea. Keratonyxis. The partial and complete displacement of the lens above described may be accomplished by introducing the needle through the cornea. But in this method the operator does not possess the same command over the cata- ract which he has when the needle is intro- duced through the sclerotica. He cannot detach and displace the lens so well, and is in greater danger of injuring the iris with the needle. This mode of operating, therefore, for the displacement of cataract is not gene- rally practised. The reclination of the lens may be per- formed by introducing the needle through the cornea, which answers equally well as if intro- duced through the sclerotica. But the risk of inflammation and opacity of the cornea in the situation of the wound, which might extend and interrupt vision, forms a strong reason for giving a preference to the intro- duction of the needle through the sclerotica. This mode of operating through the cornea has been called Keratonyxis, and was first practised about the end of the eighteenth century. A curved needle is to be introduced through the lower part of the cornea, at the distance of about a line from its margin, and having its concave side directed upwards, the convex side downwards. It is to be pushed quickly forwards till its point reaches the cataract; the convex part of the needle being now raised and placed upon the anterior and upper part of the lens, it is to be depressed, by raising the handle of the instrument. The lens will now be imbedded in the vitreous humour, and if it should rise on with- drawing the needle from it, the movement for its depression must be repeated, and the needle retained upon it for a short time. 3. Depression of Cataract as practised by the Native Indians. The depression of cataract into the vitreous humour, by a mode peculiar to themselves, seems to have been long practised by the na- tive Indians in Hindoostan. These operators have no pretensions to any knowledge of ana- tomy or surgery ; they are itinerants, who devote themselves to this operation solely ; and their mode of operating descends from father to son. This operation of the native Indians con- sists in their forming an opening through the sclerotica and coats of the eye, at a small dis- tance from the margin of the cornea, with the point of a lancet; a blunt-pointed needle, of a triangular form at its point, is then intro- duced, by which the lens is depressed into a breach of the vitreous humour. The success w'hich has attended this opera- tion for the removal of cataract by the native 3 A