FISTULA, INTESTINAL. adhesion ; the failure therefore of the adhesive process, and the consequent effusion of feces into the peritoneum, cannot justly be imputed to the rapidity with which the section was accomplished ; but may rather be attributed to some constitutional peculiarity, which, after this as well as other operations, occasionally renders abortive the adhesive process, and fa- vours the development of diffuse inflammation. Analogy would lead us to expect that compres- sion, carried at once to such an extent as entirely to extinguish vitality, would be less likely to produce serious irritation, than a more moderate degree of pressure. This is, however, a question which experience alone can decide; and to this test must also be referred the question whether the destruction of the septum throughout its whole length at one attempt, as practised by Dupuytren, or by successive portions, as adopted by Del- pech, be the milder and safer mode of pro- ceeding. Second Indication. To support nutrition.— Attention to this indication is more especially required when the abnormal opening is situ- ated at the upper part of the intestinal canal, allowingthe alimentary matters toescape before they have been exposed to a sufficient extent of absorbing surface. This cause of defective nutrition is sometimes aggravated by an acce- lerated transit of the intestinal contents. By attention to diet, and the exhibition of nutri- ent clysters, these evils may sometimes be successfully combated. The diet should consist of liquid animal matters, as milk, broths, and eggs, combined with farinaceous vegetable substances, given in moderate quantities, and repeated at very short intervals. The clysters may be com- posed of the same materials, and repeated every fourth or sixth hour. When the tran- sit of the alimentary matters is too rapid, the peristaltic action may be tranquillized by small and repeated doses of opium. Third Indication. To solicit the natural ac- tion of the bowels.—This object may be pro- moted by the judicious use of purgatives and clysters. In numerous instances, the first re- turn of the natural evacuations occurred soon after the employment of these remedies. In a patient, treated by Scarpa, the excrements resumed their natural course, after having been entirely discharged by the wound for four months, on the same day that he took a purgative of senna and manna, and the wound w'as cicatrized in a fortnight afterwards. Scarpa ’, whose authority is entitled to the highest respect, was of opinion that an abund- ant allowance of food easy of digestion, con- tinued for some weeks, in conjunction with the uninterrupted use of slightly stimulating clysters, and the occasional exhibition of a purgative, induced the feculent matters gra- dually to take their course by the rec- tum. Fourth Indication. To prevent or relieve prolapse.—Protrusion of the bowel through 1 Op. eit. p. 33.5. the abnormal opening, is not only a source of suffering, and even of danger, but also a seri- ous obstacle to the cure of intestinal fistula. The prevention or relief of this affection, is, therefore, a most desirable object. Pressure suitably applied, and the use of the linen tent, have been beneficially em- ployed as preventive means. The degree of pressure must be moderate, and such only as to give support to the breach in the abdo- minal walls, and not so powerful as to compress the membranous funnel, and diminish its capa- city. A pad, slightly concave, so as to cor- respond to the moderate convexity of the abdo- men, may be placed over the opening, and fixed by a bandage, or an elastic spring. "This appa- ratus is well adapted to the purpose, and ought to be employed whenever a tendency to ever- sion of the bowel is observed. In addition to slight external pressure, a tent of linen was successfully used by Desault. When the tent is employed, a greater degree of external pressure may be borne. Desault1 observes, that “ the most effectual means of preventing eversion of the intestine, of keeping the open- ing sufficiently dilated, putting a stop to tenes- mus, and restraining the intestinal contents long enough for the nourishment of the body, is to place in the opening a plug of linen, sup- ported by a compress of lint, and a moderately tight bandage.” “ Some restraint is felt when this plan is first employed, and slight colic pain may be caused by it; but these effects speedily subside.” Scarpa2 adopted with success a similar plan of treatment in this reducible condition of the protrusion. After returning the inverted intestine, he introduced into the fistulous canal a tent of linen about the size of the finger. Not only was the protrusion relieved, but soon after the introduction of the tent the feces began to pass by the natural route, not- withstanding the presence of the tent in the fistula. When the prolapse is irreducible by the hand, continued pressure of moderate force, aided by recumbency,have succeeded in reduc- ing the swollen state of the tumour, and ulti- mately have rendered it capable of being re- turned. When the pressure of the cicatrix threatens the destruction of the protruded part from strangulation, an attempt should be made to relieve the part by dividing the stricture. In the case related by Flajani, which proved fatal from strangulation, attempts were made to dilate the aperture, but without success. In most instances, however, it may be presumed that the stricture might be divided without much difficulty. When the abnormal aperture is the site of hernial protrusion, moderate pressure with the flat or slightly concave pad, recommended for prolapse, will generally afford relief. Fifth Indication. To prevent premature 1 (Euvres Cliirurg. t. ii. p. 3(12. 5 Op. cit. p. 340.