79 AMAUROSIS. concussion without serious injury. The following is a most remarkable case of amaurosis of this kind : A young man was amusing himself by looking at some gentlemen who were shooting at pigeons from a trap, and was situated at a distance of about two hundred yards from the shooter. Immediately after a shot he was sensible of a slight blow on the outer part of one eye, which produced a slight stinging pain of momentary duration only ; some confusion in vision induced him to examine the state of both eyes, and he found that he could not even perceive light with that which had been struck. On the following day he applied at the Infirmary, when I found the pupil dilated, the iris mo- tionless, and a small ecchymose spot, about the size of a large pin’s head, between the outer margin of the cornea and the external canthus ; there was not any lesion of the con- junctiva or sclerotica, but merely a slight ex- travasation between the two ; vision was com- pletely destroyed, and he remained amaurotic, in spite of all treatment, which was carefully pursued for many weeks. I have seen two cases of amaurosis from blows inflicted with the end of a whip lash : in one instance the sufferer was seated at the back of a stage-coach outside ; and in the other the patient was driving in a gig, and passing a stage-coach, at the time he was struck. In neither case was there lesion of membrane, but slight ecchymosis and subsequent ophthal- mia ; one remained amaurotic, and the other recovered perfectly ; but, in the latter case, the amaurosis was incomplete from the first. The more severe cases of this kind, attended with organic lesion, will be considered under the next head. Fourthly,—Some of the narcotics appear to exert a particular influence on the functions of the retina, especially the belladonna, and those which possess somewhat similar medicinal pro- perties. Many years since I applied the ex- tract of belladonna very freely to allay the irritation and pain of surfaces exposed by malignant ulceration. In one case the disease existed in the cervix uteri and vagina ; and, in a second case, it had attacked the rectum. The effect of the application was in both instances similar ; it allayed greatly the local suffering, but produced a temporary amaurosis, with enormously dilated state of the pupils. I re- peated the application after several days, when the amaurosis had disappeared, and with like result. Several other poisons—animal, and mineral, as well as vegetable—affect vision ; but at the same time disturb the functions of the sto- mach, or heart, or brain, &c. Treatment.—When the amaurosis of imper- fect character has arisen for want of due exercise of the organ, the obvious remedy is to give it the proper degree of exercise to re- store the lost power ; and this is in fact the only means of exciting the retina to its natu- ral degree of activity. It is, I consider, best done gradually, to prevent the risk of any congestion likely to result from the constant use of a weak organ. Thus let the patient use the weak eye for half an hour on small objects, two or three times in a day, then for an hour, and so on, gradually increasing the period of exercise until the eye can be used for hours together without much inconve- nience. Whilst the weak eye is in use, the perfect one must be closed or obscured. It requires much perseverance to effect a cure in most of these cases, even in such as are of re- cent origin. WThen the patient has lost the power of discerning large print, or when the affection has been of several years’ dura- tion, more especially if it be in an adult, I do not think that much good is likely to be effect- ed by this plan ; but when the patient retains the perception of large print, I believe that perfect vision may be restored. Little or no good can be effected by any other local or general means. Amaurosis, resulting from the influence of too much or too brilliant a light on the retina itself, is generally of sudden occurrence, is most frequently perfect, and usually affects the entire field of vision, though, as in the case of the artist, it may be partial or affect only one portion of the retina. The cases of amaurosis of slow progress, usually supposed to result from the influence of too much light upon the retina, are produced from the congestive condition of the choroid, and the effect on the functions of the retina is second- ary : this form will be considered with the or- ganic retinal diseases. The effect, then, of too brilliant light on the retina is very similar to the effect of concus- .sion, not only in its immediate, but remote consequences, and requires a similar plan of treatment. Before describing this, I have only to ob- serve that the mischief likely to result from the effect of moderate light on the retina mor- bidly sensible, is easily avoided by excluding the light until the extreme sensibility has been subdued. The immediate effect of a blow or concus- sion, as well as that of a too brilliant light upon the retina, is sudden, and may destroy either the function of a part or of the whole, or the function may be only impaired ; the remote effect of either is inflammatory action. In these cases, when the function of a part or the whole is entirely and immediately lost, I be- lieve that it is not to be ever restored, for I have seen very many such cases, and have adopted careful and continued treatment without any good effect. When the amaurosis is incomplete, the function of the retina in general gradually returns if the medical attendant prevents any destructive inflammatory action, and this is to be done by rest, local bleeding, quiet, moderate or abstemious diet, and purgatives ; or when these are not effective, the use of mercury, or counter irritation by blisters over the eye- brow aids much. I think more good results from repeated blisters than from one kept open for some time. After all inflammation