219 FISTULA, INTESTINAL. Cates in which the operation for establishing a lumbar artificial anus was performed. Amussat. 183.0. Bulletin Gen. de Therapeu- tiqne. Oct. 15 & 30, 1839. British and Foreign Med. Rev. Jan. 1840. Female, actat. 48. Haid, round, and almost immoveable tumour, at a con- siderable height in the rectum. Left lumbar re- gion opened. Favourable reco- covery ; the pa- tient four months after the operation was quite well, and had regained her strength. Amussat. Ibid. Male, a;tat. 62. Cancer of the rectum. Left lumbar re- gion opened. Successful; the man’s health was much improved after the opera- tion, and the dis- ease of the rectum seemed to be ar- rested. Amussat. 1841. Gazette des Hopitanx, No. 90. Prov. Med. and Surg. Journal. August, 1841. Female, tetat 50. Obstruction in tlu large intestine too high to be ascer- tained by the fin ger introduced at the anus. Right lumbar re- gion and ascend- ing colon opened. At the end of thirty days, the patient was in a most satisfactory state ; the appetite and strength had returned, and the artificial anus was completely esta- blished. Malformations and diseases which may admit of relief from the formation of artificial anus.— The various affections causing obstruction of the intestinal canal, which may occasionally require the formation of an artificial anus for their relief, may be referred to the fol- lowing heads :—Congenital malformations ; carcinoma of the rectum or neighbouring parts; and non-malignant diseases of these structures. It has been maintained that the surgeon is not justified in prolonging the life of an infant, in whom the anus or rectum are im- perforate, upon the loathsome condition of an artificial anus ; but such an opinion can- not be justified upon any principle of mo- rality, since an imperative obligation rests upon the surgeon to employ, to the utmost of his ability, the means placed at his com- mand for the relief of human suffering and the prolongation of human life. In most cases of imperforate anus or rectum, the perineal operation, in its present improved state (sec Anus), may be accomplished ; and in those instances where it is imprac- ticable, the surgeon ought not to hesitate to perform the iliac or the lumbar operation. In obstruction from carcinoma, the opera- tion has been objected to on the ground that the disease itself must in a short time prove point of union between the transverse and descending fiortions of the colon ; the cavity of the intestine was lere considerably contracted, and it appeared probable that this was occasioned by a small bone which was found in this point.”—Prov. Med. and Sury. Journal, Sept. 18,1841. fatal : but, if the obligation of the surgeon to prolong life in infancy be imperative, surely he will feel it no less binding in reference to adult age, when he considers how vast and important may be the concerns, which hang upon the prolongation of life in an adult human being for a few months, or even for a few days or hours. In four of the cases noticed in the pre- ceding tables, the iliac or lumbar operation was performed for diseases undoubtedly car- cinomatous. One of them proved fatal on the eighteenth day, another on the twenty- eighth, but the result in the other two was highly satisfactory. In one, life was prolonged for sixteen months, and the sufferings were greatly mitigated ; and of the other it is re- ported, that the health was much improved after the operation, and that the disease of the rectum appeared to be arrested. The cases which afford the greatest pros- pect of being permanently relieved by ope- ration, are those in which the obstruction is produced by diseases not of a malignant cha- racter. Such affections are not unfrequent, and present considerable varieties. In the case successfully treated by Dr. Maitland, and in one of those attended with an equally fortunate result under the treatment of M. Amussat, the obstruction was caused by tumour, probably non-malignant, developed either in the coats of the rectum, or in its immediate vicinity. Stricture of the large intestines is occa- sionally the cause of serious obstruction, which might admit of relief by the formation of an artificial anus. This disease may exist in any portion of their course. In the museum of the Leeds School of Medicine is a well-marked example of stricture of the colon, situated at a distance of three inches from the caecum. It has occurred to the writer of this article to witness a succession of strictures throughout the transverse and descending portions and sigmoid flexure of the colon, at distances of two or three inches from each other. The contracted parts would scarcely admit the tip of the little finger, and presented a slight induration and thickening of the intestinal coats. He has been permitted by some of his medical friends to give the following brief notice of three cases, occurring in their prac- tice. Mr. Hey was, some time ago, consulted by a gentleman who had long suffered from constipation, and, at length, experienced a severe attack of obstruction of the bowels, which proved fatal in a few days. On dissec- tion, the rectum was found to be contracted to the size of a goose-quill, at a distance of eight inches above the anus. The coats ol the intestine, at the strictured part, were a little indurated, but free from ulceration. Mr. Smith, one of the surgeons of the Leeds infirmary, attended a gentleman, aged 67, who, for several years, had only been able to part with feces in a liquid state, which were generally ejected with considerable force. During the summer of 183*2 he was seized with