CANCER. below enumerated. 1 Pearson, Travers. 660 liautschwamni” in Encycl.Wortevb. dor Med. Wissens. It. 16, Berlin; 1037. S. Cooper, Dictionary of Surgery: Art. “Fungus of Dura Mater,” 1839. (b.) Spinal Meninges.— Cancerous disease of the spinal canal may originate precisely in the same situations as in the skull ; but the disease is rare, and of its protrusion externally there have been but few examples preserved by the industry of writers. Philipps relates the case of a youth aged 14, who fell from a second story window into the street, whereby his back was bruised, but no fracture caused. The sufferer was able to walk with his body bent forward. Three years and a half after the accident he was seized with violent pain in the back, thighs, and legs, and a tumour began to form over the lumbar vetebrae, which increased to a great size ; it was red on the surface, and the source of frequent haemorrhage. Complete paraplegia, incontinence of urine and faeces, &c. supervened, and the patient died six years after the fall. The tumour consisted of ence- phaloid, took its origin from the spinal cord, and had spread upwards, as also downwards, extending from the third dorsal vertebra to the coccyx. Several dorsal and lumbar ver- tebrae were “ carious,” and some of the latter had altogether disappeared : there was general softening of all the bones of the spine, of the sacrum, and the ileum. In a case of similar character related by Wolff, the tumour formed at the upper part of the back ; the patient had also had a fall, and there was paraplegia and incontinence of urine. Pressure on the swelling caused ver- tigo and a disagreeable sensation in the front of the head. [Could this have arisen from the forcible repulsion of the cephalo-rachidian fluid into the ventricles'?] A second tumour soon appeared in the lumbar region. On post-mortem examination the new growths were ascertained to possess the chemical and physical constitution of encephaloid ; they ad- hered to the medulla, w'hich was scarcely softer than natural, though its “ investments were destroyed in the corresponding places.” The spinous processes of eight vertebrae had totally disappeared. We owe to Lecat the record of a case in which partial excision was performed. G. I. shoemaker, received, in 1750, a violent blow in the loins, after which a “ carcinomatous tumour” formed there ; the disease destroyed the spinous processes of the four first lumbar vertebrae, and part of the sheath of the me- dulla. “ All these nervous parts [encephaloid matter], dilated into mushroom-like growths, formed the tumour.” It was extirpated in 1751 without loss of blood, but “ such a pro- digious nervo - lymphatic discharge followed from the medulla that the thickest cloths were saturated.” The patient died of exhaustion in two days. For the incipient symptoms of the disease we must refer the reader to the medical works Bibliography.—Lecat, Traite de l’Existcnce du Fluide des Ncrfs, p. 53; Paris, 1753. Pliillijps, New Bond. Med. Journal, vol. i. p. 144. 1792. R. Knox, Bond. Med. Obs. and Inq. vol. iii. p. 160. [In this case, also, an encephaloid growth protruded externally from the spinal canal.] " Serves, Anat. Comp. Du Ccrveau, t. ii. p. 234. Wolff, Bull, des Sc. Med. de Ferussac; Jan. 1826. Ollivier, Traite de la Moelle F.piniere, p. /36. 1827. Abercrombie, Dis. of Brain, 2nd edit. p. 365. 1829. Cruveilhier, Bivr ais. xxxii. Malad. de la Moelle, 1839. Calmeil, Article “ Moelle Epiniere,” Diet, de Med. t. xx. p. 86. 1839. VIII.—Alimentary Canal. (a.) Lips.—Labial cancer may commence by infiltration of scirrhus, presenting the cha- racteristic properties of this formation, in a limited extent of the lip and apparently under- neath the skin at the junction of that mem- brane with the mucous surface1. After a variable length of time, the skin, or more com- monly the mucous tissue, gives way, the re- sulting fissure discharges a thin acrid fluid ; this dries and forms a scab, which falls off or is torn away accidentally and is reproduced. Meanwhile the ulcerative process advances, at first slowly ; the formation of regular scabs ceases, and fungous formations spring from the scirrhous basis. These are of the hard spe- cies ; and we have not met with any instance in which encephaloid matter is alleged to have been produced in this situation. In some cases the production of a cutaneous warty excrescence, such as has been elsewhere de- scibed, is the first phenomenon observed : this is not unfrequently tinged with melanic mat- ter. Mr. Warren observes that the cuticular crust continues to be regenerated for years in some subjects, before any thickening of the skin is perceptible ; in such cases the affection is not originally cancerous. The same sur- geon describes an example of the disease which commenced “ by a pustule which after bursting left a scab.” As the disease advances, the skin, mucous membrane, and labial glands form a prominent mass, which combined with the fungous productions from the sore, pro- duce an abundant slaver that constantly es- capes over the edge of the lip, and irritates and excoriates the adjoining skin. The ulceratien may spread over the entire cheek and destroy even part of the external ear ; or the morbid formation extend to the maxilla, as in a case observed by Mr. Travers, where an immove- able scirrhous tumour extended from this bone to the os hyoides, went through its stages with rapidity, and finally choked the patient while in the act of swallow'ing. The destruc- tion has been known to extend even to the sternum. It was remarked by Bayle, and the observation has been confirmed by others, that so long as the ulcer implicates the skin only, it remains comparatively superficial, but when the mucous membrane is attacked, exca- vates deeply, destroying all the tissues of the part : this, of course, refers to cases wherein ulceration commences distinctly by the cuta-