412 G ASTR0-HYSTER0T0M1 A. be derived from the use of the actual cautery. “The muscles,”says he, “cannot be destroyed by the gangrene, throughout the whole ex- tent of the leg, without a considerable en- gorgement of the thigh. Experience has fully shown, that if, in this case, amputation is practised in the engorged part, the whole cellular substance of the stump mortifies, and detaches itself in greyish eschars; the mus- cles are isolated ; the denuded bone soon pro- jects, and the patients are not long of perish- ing, exhausted by copious suppurations. But if the actual cautery be passed over the part of the putrid ulceration nearest to the point where it is proposed to amputate ; or, in order to come nearer it, if the cautery be carried into the engorgement itself, by the aid of some deep incisions, the engorgement will soon dissipate, and the amputation may be made in full security.” (pp. 94, 95.) (Win. Thomson.) GASTRO-HYSTEROTOM1 A, (from yaorriQ, venter; varkpa, uterus; Toprj, sectio. Kaiserschnitt, Ger.; Sectio Ccesarea, Lat.), the Caesarean operation. This operation consists in making an incision through the parietes of the abdomen and uterus, for the purpose of ex- tracting the foetus, when, either from defor- mity of the pelvis or other causes, delivery in the natural way is impracticable *. The early history of this formidable operation is involved in so much obscurity, that it is not possible in the present day, to ascertain with any degree of certainty, under what circumstances, or by what individual it was first performed. It is asserted by Mauriceau and other writers, that this operation was unknown to the ancients ; an opinion based, probably, on the fact that no mention of it is made in the works of Hip- pocrates, Celsus, Paulus ^Egineta, or Albu- casis. There appears, however, to be no doubt that it has been practised at various times from a very remote period. If we refer to the ancient poets and historians, we shall find numerous allusions to this operation: Virgil speaks of Lycas having been taken by incision from his mother’s womb ; “IndeLycam feint, exectum jam matre perempta 2.” Ovid also thus alludes to the birth of ^Esculapius, who is said to have been ushered into the world in a similar way by his father Apollo : “ sed nalum Jlammis uteroque parentis eripuit3.” But it is unnecessary to refer to fabulous history in order to prove the antiquity of this opera- tion. Pliny, who lost his life in the seventy- ninth year of the Christian era, and who has been usually regarded as the earliest writer of authority on this subject, has the following oft-quoted passage : “ Auspicatius enectd parente gignuntur; sicut Scipio Africa- nus prior natus, primusque Ccesarum a cceso ma- ' TLis operation is usually called the abdominal Caesarean operation, to distinguish it from the vaginal Caesarean operation. For an account of the latter, vide Hysterotomy. 2 Virg. TEneid. lib. x. vcr. 315. 3 Ovid. Metarn. lib. ii. ver. 629, tris utero dictus: qua, de causa et Ctcsoncs ap- pe/lati. Simili modo natus et Manlius, qui Carthaginem cum exercitu intravil4.” Although the correctness of this etymology may be considered doubtful, still we may be justified in concluding from the passage in question, that the extraction of the living foetus from the womb of the mother by incision, was an operation not unknown at that period. There is, moreover, every reason to believe that it was known and practised among the Jews at a very early period of, if not anterior to, the Christian era. Dr. Mansfeld of Brunswick, in a work of great learning and extensive re- search 5, states that the Talmud, (which is devoted to the explication of the Jewish laws, and which owes its existence to the learned Jews of the earliest times), contains exten- sive information concerning the section of the oelly and womb, and makes frequent allusions to the performance of the operation on living women. The operation is always spoken of in this work under the name of the side-cut, the lateral incision being, no doubt, the only one practised in those days. Allusion is also made to the operation in a work of still ear- lier date, called the Mischnajoth, which is regarded, indeed, as the oldest of the unin- spired works of the Jews. Dr. Mansfeld refers moreover to the Nidda, (a continua- tion of, or appendix to the Talmud,) written by Asche, a learned rabbi of the 4th century, and which is devoted chiefly to the definition of the law with respect to women. From this work we have the following quotation : “ After the side-cut the woman need not keep the days of purification.” These Talmudish works, enriched as they are by the labours of various commentators, will be found exceed- ingly interesting by all who are desirous of tracing the early history of this operation. But as this article is intended to be practical rather than historical, it will be better to de- scend from these early ages, to the period when the operation is first mentioned by medi- cal writers. According to Mr. S. Cooper 6, the earliest account of this operation in any medi- cal work, was published about the middle of the 14th century, by Guido Cauliacus7, who, however, only speaks of the practice as proper after the death of the mother. Ryan states, in his manuals, that the operation was first recorded at Venice, in 1491, by Nicolai de Falconiis9. Velpeau10 mentions, on the au- thority of Coulin, the case of a woman who underwent the operation in 1424, and who, together with her infant, did well. Accord- 4 Plin. Nat. Hist, book vii. chap. 9. 5 Ueber das Alter des Bauch- und Gebarmuttcr- sclmitts an Lebcnden. Braunschweig, 1825. 0 Diet, of Pract. Snrg. by Samuel Cooper. 7th edit. p. 306. 1 Chirurgia Guidonis de Cauliaco; cap. de cxtrac- tione foetus. 8 Manual of Midwifery, by Michael Ryan, M. D. 3d edit. p. 586. 9 Nicolai de Falconiis; Ohs. Chiruvg. 10 Traite elemcntaire de l’Art des Accmichcmcns; par Alf. A. L. M. Velpeau, tom. ii. p. 836.