BRONCHOTOMY. 524 trachea. He advocates the use of a large curved canula. As to the danger of narrowing, I have not read of any cases supporting this view. On the other hand, I have of many, where a por- tion was removed, and the aperture is said to have been filled with a ligamentous substance, and no narrowing occurred. Mr. Lawrence strongly recommends the removal of a thin slip of the tube, when the canula causes inconvenience, so as to leave an opening for respiration equal to the natural one. It may be added also, that the canula can neither be introduced, nor retained, so easily if the trachea be simply incised. If this instrument be not used, then the sides of the wound must be held apart by some me- chanical contrivance, which is obviously highly objectionable ; not only from the danger of its unexpectedly giving way, but from the inflammation it is calculated to excite. Again, whether should we expect greater mischief, from the continuance of a canula in the wound, or from the removal of a portion of the trachea ? Mr. Porter urges many ob- jections to the canula, and 1 think most men must agree with him. It is highly useful while haemorrhage continues, but so soon as this has ceased, and the soft parts arc suffi- ciently retracted, it should be removed ; as it is liable to cause violent irritation of the mucous membrane, spasmodic cough, and to greatly increase the extent and danger of existing inflammation. It does not allow a free exit to mucus, and as Mr. Porter observes, “ the irritation which the instrument causes is aggravated by withdrawing and replacing it when obstructed by a concretion of mucus. Besides, the extraneous body must be irri- tating the internal membrane, and increase that secretion from an accumulation of which the principal danger is to be apprehended. The membrane of the windpipe above the wound becomes gradually thickened by the irritation of the canula. This alteration of structure may either obliterate the cavity of the larynx, destroy speech, and render the abandonment of the instrument impracticable, or so far diminish its capacity as to augment the difficulty of speaking, and the danger of closing the wound.” Perhaps in some cases where an artificial opening may be only necessary for a very short time, the use of the canula might be better practice than cutting out a piece of the tube. If it be used, it should be carefully secured by tapes passed through its rings, and round the patient’s neck : and a piece of light muslin thrown over its orifice to prevent the ingress of any injurious matter. It should also be carefully kept patent, as in one of Mr. Burgess’s cases death apparently resulted from a neglect of this precaution. To effect this, a second canula might, be introduced within the first, the second being taken out, cleaned, and replaced as often as necessary. If bronchotomy be performed for the resto- ration of suspended animation, a large open- ing must be made in the trachea, to admit the introduction of the nozzle of a pair of bellows. Dr. Murray has proposed a mode of per- forming this operation, which certainly ap- pears to offer many advantages. He directs the patient’s head to be bent forwards, so as to relax the skin on the forepart of the neck, a portion of which is to be seized between the finger and thumb, and removed at one sweep of the knife. When the head is now turned back, a clear space is exposed on the front of the trachea, into the middle of which a hook or tenaculum is to be introduced between two of the rings. The centre of the trachea is then pulled forwards, and a small piece sliced out. A free aperture is thus left for blowing in air, or sucking out fluid, and as the integu- ments are retracted to some distance from the orifice, if they bleed, the blood does not enter. Dr. Murray considers that the trachea can be thus cleared to the required extent at one stroke of the knife ; that the pulsation of any stray artery can be felt and avoided ; that the small thyroid vessels are so put upon the stretch, that after the piece is removed, they retract so as to cause no alarm or annoyance by bleeding ; that the trachea is so fixed, that no start, spasm, coughing, or unsteadiness of the patient, can risk the knife touching the important parts in the neighbourhood, or wounding the back part of the trachea; that the integuments cannot be drawn over the new orifice by any convulsive motions or spasm, as Vigili saw in one case; that they are not in the way, either in introducing the pipe of a bellows or a canula ; that they easily per- mit the sucking out of secretions, &c. ; and that the operation can be finished so instantly, that the most immediate chance for life is afforded. I am not aware how far these opinions have been borne out by the experience of practical men, but they certainly appear very plausible, and perhaps there are many cases where this mode of operating might he pur- sued with advantage. It now only remains to consider the diffe- rent situations which have been recom- mended for the incision into the air tube j and the cases to which each may be appli- cable. It has been proposed to make the open- ing in the hyo-thyroid membrane, the thy- roid cartilage, the crico-thyroid membrane, and the trachea. The first has been recommended by Mal- gaigne, on the ground that a clear view is thus obtained of the contents of the larynx, and the extraction of foreign bodies facili- tated. How far it has answered his expec- tations when put to the test of practice I am unable to say, but the subject appears to de- serve some consideration, especially in cases where any substance was impacted or entan- gled in the riina ; or it is wished to remove polypi growing from the mucous membrane of the larynx.