108 EMPYEMA. bronchi, recovery may also ensue ; but an ex- asperation of the symptoms is the more com- mon result; death has even sometimes fol- lowed from the inability of the patient to expectorate the matter poured through the lung. His efforts to discharge the fluid by expectoration, have sometimes been aided by the formation of an opening in the parietes, either naturally or artificially, and the case eventually terminated either in death or in recovery. Perforations of the bronchi, and of the thoracic paries, have sometimes occurred almost simultaneously. When the matter escapes naturally through the walls of the chest, the openings are either single or nume- rous, and in the latter case established simul- taneously or successively : Duncan’s case, re- ferred to in the article Emphysema (p. 80), as also that related by Betty (loc. citand.), furnish good illustrations of discharge by several outlets. The openings may close early or remain fistulous, with or without abundant discharge. Prognosis.—It would follow from these con- siderations, that the prognosis in empyema is extremely unfavourable ; but the mortality caused by the disease is fortunately capable of beingdiminished by medical and surgical means. It is most important that the practitioner bear in mind, that in estimating the probable dura- tion of life in any given case, the existence of phthisis, and, above all, the amount to which the various functions have suffered, are less deceptive guides than the extent, character, or duration of the effusion. And even under ap- parently the most discouraging circumstances, hope need not be immediately and altogether banished. Not a very few cases have been ob- served, where the occurrence of empyema and pneumothorax from tuberculous destruc- tion of the lung, with perforation of the pleura, has certainly not hastened, and appa- rently even averted for a time, the fatal issue of the primary disease. ' Drs. Houghton, Stokes, and Barlow, have narrated cases illus- trating this factl. Etiology.—The presumed causes of pleurisy may be found in purely medical works; those of empyema only need engage our attention in this place. It has already been stated, that the existence of pulmonary tubercles appears to have the strongest influence upon the con- version of acute into chronic pleurisy with empyema. Other deteriorated states of con- stitution probably act in the same direction, though not to an equal extent. And it is re- markable, that a variety of conditions, under which the secretion of pus takes place ah initio, partake, all of them, more or less, of the cha- racters of constitutional malady, or are pre- ceded by such malady,—for example, the pas- sage of foreign matter into the pleura from gangrenous, tuberculous, or suppurative de- struction of the lung,—from a purulent collec- tion in the liver or thoracic parietes,—as an 1 Vide British and Foreign Medical Review, vol.ix. p. 394; April, 1840. occasional result of capital operations when the purulent diathesis is established, or as an epiphenomenon of the puerperal state In military practice,circumscribed empyema is frequently observed, as a consequence of the lodgement of foreign bodies (balls, pieces of cloth, clots of blood, &c.) in the chest. These extraneous matters first become sur- rounded with a pseudo-membranous cyst, and this, secondarily, the seat of sero-purulent secretion. Empyema sometimes follows frac- ture of the ribs. Empyema appears to be more common in males than females : of twenty cases collected by Heyfelder, nineteen referred to men, one only to an individual of the other sex. Pleu- risy is also more common in the male sex, but not by any means to the extent here disclosed in respect of empyema : it would follow then, that pleurisy has a greater tendency to dege- nerate into empyema in the male than in the female,—a result the less to have been anti- cipated, because tuberculous disease is more common in the latter sex. Complications.—The most common compli- cations of acute effusion are pneumonia and pericarditis. The former is a very frequent attendant on the disease, but not, as has been maintained — clearly on the evidence of a limited number of cases — a necessary co- existence ; pericarditis is of much less com- mon occurrence. Of the frequent presence of tubercle in the chronic stages of either disease, it is unnecessary to repeat the state- ment. Diagnosis.—The affections which are most likely to be confounded with chronic pleuritic effusion, are tubercular, pneumonic, or cancer- ous accumulation in the chest, and enlarge- ment of the liver and spleen. Tubercular accumulation.—The ordinary seat of tubercular solidification, and consequently of its signs, at the upper part of the lung, will pre- vent error as to the nature of the case, while a portion only of the organ is diseased. When the whole organ is affected sufficiently to cause signs of solidification at the base, the evidences of excavation (unless in cases of acute phthi- sis) will almost invariably exist at the summit. The progress of signs depending upon accu- mulation is in phthisis from above down- wards—in empyema from below upwards. The dull sound produced by tubercle is never so marked, nor is the resistance felt by the per- cussing fingers so great, as that caused by liquid effusion. The rhonchi, and the phenomena of voice and cough, will always distinguish the cases ; besides, the form of the affected side, which in tuberculous subjects is contracted at the summit in its antero-posterior diameter,— while in effusion, this measurement, if not augmented, is at least not less than in the natural state,—will afford an excellent ground 1 Cruvcilhier asserts, that puerperal pleurisy is scarcely less common at the Maternite than puerperal peritonitis. Bulletin <le l’Acad. Rov. de Med. t. i. p. 104. 1838.