CANCER, PHYSIOLOGY OF. G04 jectiug the doctrine of Broussais. He admits, as all will do who have had opportunities of satisfactorily ascertaining the early condition of the diseased part, either by direct obser- vation or through the testimony of intelligent patients, that irritation sometimes precedes and appears to act as the local exciting cause of the growth of the morbid structure ; but to this occasional influence he limits its power. M. Andral believes that every agency, which modifies the processes of nutrition and secre- tion, tends to give rise to the formation of adventitious matter in the cellular structure of organs. Some years since our distinguished country- man Dr. Hodgkin endeavoured to show, by a train of very ingenious and plausible reason- ing, that the production of cancerous growths depends on the presence of simple or multi- ple cysts. “ If,” says this anatomo-patholo- gist, “ we carefully dissect down to the sur- face ... of a tumour, in which the progress of decay has either not commenced or has made very little progress, we shall find that the surface, which is next to the mass of the tumour, is more or less smooth and even ; and on raising it, we find that it is reflected over one or more somewhat pyriform bodies, at- tached by a base, which is generally narrow and peduncular, to some part of the circum- ference of the enclosing capsule It must be sufficiently obvious, that the appear- ance presented by the section of a tumour such as I have just described must be very materially affected by the direction in which the section is made. If it pass through or near to the point at w hich the pyriform bodies are attached to the enclosing cyst, it must more or less nearly correspond with the direc- tion which some of these bodies take towards the circumference ; and their edges will con- sequently be seen in the form of radiating lines. On the other hand, if the section be made more or less nearly transverse to the axes of these bodies, their sections will con- vey the idea of cells of various shapes. If, continuing the dissection, we raise the outer cyst, or the membrance reflected from that which covers the radiating pedunculated bodies, wre shall generally find, that on one or more sides it dips down deeply into the mass of the tumour. It thus forms part of a septum, which separates one packet of pedunculated bodies from the others, which usually concur to form the mass of the tumour ; for it, com- paratively, rarely happens that the tumour is composed of a single cyst filled with pedun- culated bodies Thus, according to this investigator, the existence of carcinomatous matter involves that of a cyst; the former cannot be de- veloped unless in the latter, which is therefore at once its seat and source. Now although this theory leaves the causation of cancer as much unexplained as ever (for the develop- 1 Morbid Anatomy of the Serous and Mucous Mem- brane, p. 251. ment of the cyst itself remains to be accounted for), it is, if well founded, a very important contribution to the anatomy of these diseased structures, and therefore deserves to be care- fully examined. Serous cysts are undoubtedly often associated with carcinomatous growths. In the first place, as we have already inti- mated, a lamina of serous aspect forms, in rare cases, the internal layer of the capsule of encephaloid tumours, in the manner described by Dr. Hodgkin. But we are not acquainted with any facts proving that this lamina pre- cedes the cancerous substance in order of de- velopment ; the contrary is indeed more likely to be the truth for the following reasons: the lamina in question appears to be simply a modification of the inner surface of an ordinary capsule of condensed cellular membrane, which is confessedly, when it exists, formed subse- quently to the cancerous mass ; the connexion between the cyst and its contents is not neces- sarily either close or universal, nor, according to the experience of numerous observers, are the cellular septa of the tumour distinctly pro- ductions from it. Secondly, though serous cysts with contents of different kinds are fre- quently seen in the interior of cancerous growths, we have never yet observed a par- ticle of encephaloid, scirrhus, or colloid actually within the cavity of such contained cysts; though it is far from uncommon to discover a protrusion inwards or'partial collapse of some portion of their walls, probably from local ac- tivity of growth of the cancerous tumour. The origin of these internal cysts we shall hereafter endeavour to explain. Thirdly, in connexion with simple or multilocular cysts of the ovary and mamma, encephaloid vegeta- tions of various sizes and shapes are occasion- ally found protruding into the cavity of those cysts ; but we have not been able to ascertain that such vegetations are surrounded by a serous sac developed within the original one. It is, we think, evident that the carcinoma- tous matter originates in these cases between the external surface of the pre-existing serous membrane and the adjoining stratum of cel- lular or fibrous tissue, and hence that the ex- tent of surface of the cancerous growth covered with a reflection of the former is always in the inverse ratio of the breadth of base of that product. Laennec had noticed this partial cystic investiture under other circumstances, and attempted to explain it by supposing the cyst in course of formation ; but this hypo- thesis is untenable : the peculiarity seems to be caused from cancerous matter, produced outside a pre-existing cyst, carrying inwards the adjoining portion of the serous lamina and eventually bringing it into contact with the opposite circumference. In this case the relation of the cancerous structure to the cyst is that of the testicle to the tunica vaginalis ; the former is partially invested by the latter, but is without its proper cavity : and, in truth, according to Dr. Hodgkin himself, this is the mode of connexion of the morbid mat- ter and cyst, for it is clearly impossible that 12