.395 ARTHRITIS, TRAUMATIC. A RTF.RIO TO M Y (rop»), ‘ a section.’) The operation of opening an artery (in general the j temporal) in order to abstract blood. See Bleeding. * ARTHRITIS, TRAUMATIC.—Accord- ing to the definition commonly received among surgeons, the wound of a joint consists in the opening of the synovial capsule. A theoretic objection might be raised to this definition, on the ground that it includes only wounds of the more complex articulations, but for practical purposes it may safely be adopted, since the wounds of fibro-cartila- ginous joints, such as those of the vertebral bodies and pelvic bones are of extremely rare occurrence, and are unattended by peculiar symptoms. It will, therefore, be understood, that I his article is devoted to the considera- tion of wounds of those complex organs which are composed of bones, encrusted with a layer of cartilage, held together by ligaments, and having interposed between their cartilaginous surfaces a cavity lined on all sides by a highly organized synovial membrane. Traumatic arthritis was rendered familiar to j the earliest surgeons by the accidents of mili- tary life. The progress of knowledge has given us increased power of preventing its appearance, and of obviating its disastrous consequences, but it still remains one of the most alarming maladies to which our atten- tion is directed. The synovial membranes, like the serous, to which they have a strong affinity, rapidly propagate the inflammation set up at a small point of their surface, so that the whole is soon involved. Nor is this all; the law of disease, by the operation of which tissues become affected by the lesions of con- tiguous structures, is no where more observ- able than in articulations. If the acute syno- vitis which frequently succeeds to a simple wound of a joint, be not checked, and a sup- purative action be set up, the bone, ligament, and cartilage ere long participate, and the organ falls into hopeless disorganization. Attempts have been made by writers on surgery to specify the classes of articulations most liable to wounds, and it has been gene- rally agreed that the ginglymoid joints are more exposed than any other. It is no doubt true that joints of this class are less protected by soft parts than the enarthrodial, but there are other circumstances to be taken into con- sideration. The ginglymoid joints are more or less protected by bony processes, such as the olecranon and coronoid process in the elbow-joint, and the patella in the knee-joint, which are placed at the points most ex- posed to the penetration of foreign bodies, or least covered by muscle and tendon. The situation of a joint must also exercise an im- portant influence. Thus in close combat, whether both parties be on foot or on horse- back, the shoulder will be more exposed than any other articulation, and in charges made by cavalry or infantry, the knees of the former, and the shoulders of the latter will be chiefly liable to wounds. In point of fact, the re- cords of military surgery show that wounds by cutting and piercing instruments are sustained by the shoulder more frequently than by any other joint. The liability to gunshot wounds is tolerably equal in all, since, in the large ma- jority of cases, the force of projectiles is such as to overcome any resistance which soft parts can offer. Writers on surgery, in treating of wounds of joints, have commonly founded the distinc- tions drawn between different wounds, on the various forms of the instruments producing them. There are certain advantages attend- ing this arrangement, but it must not be for- gotten, that precisely the same train of symp- toms may, and frequently does follow wounds of very different form and extent. A more scientific and comprehensive classification may be made by a reference to the tissue or tissues involved in the wound, and the variations in- duced by the shape and size of the body in- flicting the wound may be adequately noticed as varieties rather than as classes. Proceed- ing on this basis, the wounds of joints may be arranged under two general heads :— 1. Simple wounds,— comprising lesions of synovial membrane only. 2. Complicated wounds ; including,— a. Wounds complicated with injury of ligaments and cartilage. b. Wounds complicated with injury of articular bone. To these two complications a third import- ant one might be added, in the shape of luxa- tion, but this lesion will be considered with more propriety under the head of compound luxation. (See Luxation.) 1. Simple wounds.—The synovial membrane can never be the only articular tissue wounded in such joints as the shoulder and hip, which are completely enveloped by a capsular liga- ment, nor even in the ginglymoid articulations, unless the wound be inflicted by a narrow piercing instrument. The division of liga- mentous fibre being, however attended with no active or immediate inflammation, may be passed over in silence while we are consider- ing the phenomena developed by the injured synovial membrane. The synovial membrane may be punctured by a piercing instrument, as a nail or the point of a bayonet,—may be freely divided, as by a knife or sabre,—may be penetrated with contusion, as by a shot and small bullets, or may be lacerated, as in compound disloca- tions. The only consequence, so far as the synovial membrane is concerned, to be appre- hended from these different forms of injury, is inflammation, and the main difference between them arises from the greater or less proneness to this result. As a general rule, it may be laid down, that the degrees of exposure of the articular cavity and of serious conse- quences are in relation to one another; but it is a rule to which the case-book of every sur- geon will present exceptions.