AMPUTATION. 161 performing is as follows: the hand being thrown into deep pronation, the surgeon be- gins an incision a little above the articulation, carrying it down in a straight line to the ulnar edge of the first phalanx (t, 4 fig. 12) ; the edge of the knife then follows in the line which sepa- rates the finger from the palm of the hand, till it ascends between the little and ring-fingers, to join the first incision at an acute angle, (n, o). The soft parts are then dissected from the bone, and the ligaments divided in the man- ner already described. This operation cannot be executed with the same promptitude as the other, but it leaves only a linear cicatrix. Amputation of the index, middle, or ring- finger, in the carpo-metacarpal articulation.— On inspecting the manner in which the heads of these three bones are so closely locked in, it will be obvious that the amputation of any one of them must be much more difficult than that of either of the two bones, we have been describ- ing. That able operator, Langenbeck, how- ever, recommends their removal, and performs the operation by the oval method. He begins his incision about half an inch above the articulation, carrying it down the dorsal sur- face, along the side of the bone, and turning the edge of the knife round the base of the finger in the palmar line, continues it upwards again on the back of the hand, and on the opposite side of the bone, till he reaches the point from which he first started. The inter- osseous, and articular ligaments are next to be divided with the point of the knife, gently, and without using any violence. This step of the operation is the most tedious, and will vary according to the bone to be removed. The form of the articulation should be care- fully examined on the skeleton before the ope- ration. The wood-cut accompanying the text will also help the memory. The assistant throws the lips of the wound as wide asunder as possible, and thus affords all proper help to the surgeon in his efforts to luxate the head of the bone. As soon as he succeeds in this, the knife, held flat, divides the parts in front of the bone, up to the commencement of the finger, where it falls into the incision of the palmar line. The cicatrix left is linear. The operation may also be performed by commencing at the commissures, carrying the incisions upwards, at each side of the bone in succession, and luxating the head of the bone in the manner already described. Simultaneous amputation of the four meta- carpal bones supporting the fingers.—The mode in which the first and fifth metacarpal bones are articulated having been already de- scribed, we have now only to review that in which the other three metacarpals are con- nected with the bones of the carpus, and with each other. The space between the meta- carpal of the index finger, and that of the thumb being large, their connexion may be said to be one of mere juxtaposition; its con- nexion with the middle metacarpal, on the other side, is intimate and strong; and a tu- bercle, of several lines in length, ascends with VOL. i. a like prolongation from the middle metacarpal, both wedging or imbedding themselves upon an indentation, which they make, respectively, on the two carpal bones, the trapezoid, and magnum. Their tubercles give insertion to two strong tendons. The second metacarpal is articulated with the trapezoid and the magnum ; the middle metacarpal articulates in an oblique line, the direction of which is outwards, with the magnum; while the fourth articulates transversely in part with the mag- num, and in part with the unciform, the arti- cular surface of which it shares with the meta- carpal of the little finger. Fig. 18 represents the skeleton of a hand with the forms of the articulations, and the courses of the arti- cular interlines of the carpus. Though the whole line of these articula- tions is transverse, yet it is very irregular. To follow it from the thumb to the little finger, on the dorsal surface, (see skeleton of the hand, fig. 18.) we observe that of the thumb is directed obliquely forwards and inwards, and that it stops one or two lines further forwards than that of the index finger. The articular interline of the second proceeds, first, in a direction obliquely backwards, then transversely in front of the trapezoid, and then obliquely backwards again, to turn the tubercular prolongation. It then comes again obliquely forwards; continuing in this direction in front of the magnum, it reaches the fourth metacarpal, from which it passes in front of the unciform almost transversely. All these bones are strongly bound toge- ther by dorsal and palmar ligaments extend- ing from one to another in various directions. Their synovial lining is continuous with that of the bones of the carpus; on which account, inflammation arising after amputation may be attended with serious consequences. M