CANCER. 081- in an atrophous state, or of the natural dimen- sions : when the niorhid matter is infiltrated through the ovarian tissue, the vesicles of Graeff may present the natural appearance 1: occasionally, as in one of Dr. Bright’s cases2, the deposition seems to occur in the wall of one of these vesicles. In another class of cases the carcinomatous matter, originating in the walls of multilocular, or much more rarely of unilocular cysts, forms a complication of pre-existing disease. The different varieties of scirrhus and en- cephaloid exhibit themselves in this organ ; those of the latter more frequently than of the former. Bistre-coloured, or true melanotic deposition, is not uncommonly superadded. When formed in the walls of cysts encephaloid frequently co-exists with fibrous, cartilagini- form, calcareous, or ossiform transformation of those walls ; and numerous cases, in which the diseased formation consisted simply of cysts, of which the walls had been converted intro fibrous tissue, have been erroneously described as scirrhus of the ovary. Encephaloid growths vary in size in this organ from that of a pin’s head, as we have detected them under the serous lining of cysts, to that of the foetal head, or upwards. They are rarely, however, observed to attain very large dimensions here, unless when developed in the walls of cysts ; under these circum- stances, the entire formation has been known to weigh fifty-six, sixty, and seventy-five pounds, or even more. Mr. Warren describes the removal of a “scirrhous ovarium, of almost cartilaginous hardness, containing neither ca- vity nor fluid, which weighed about twenty- five pounds it may be objected to this state- ment, however, that no proof is given of the truly scirrhous character of the growth. The disease is usually confined to one ovary, though it not unfrequcntly affects both. Con- ception may occur repeatedly in the former case, as is shown by numerous examples of the fact on record. Mr. Hewlett has related the case of a female delivered at the full time, though both ovaries were the seat of extensive encephaloid disease : it seems doubtful whe- ther the disease existed in both organs at the period of impregnation (in which case the laasion of structure must have been limited on one side), or was subsequently developed ; the latter, judging from the history of the case and the species of the cancer, was most pro- bably the fact3. Dr. Seymour conceives, he has ascertained, that scirrhus of the ovary rarely softens, and refers to a preparation in the College of Phy- sicians as a very singular specimen of such change4. Encephaloid of this organ is not thus distinguished. The morbid mass contracts adhesions with 1 Bouilliiud. 2 Guy’s Hosp. Reports, vol.iii.p. 17.9. 1838. 3 Med. Cliir. Trans, vol. xvii. p. 226. 1832. 4 On Diseases of the Ovaries. Lond. surrounding parts in many, but in what exact proportion of cases, is yet matter for inquiry. If these adhesions occur in an early stage of its growth, they connect it with the uterus, rectum, or pelvic peritoneum; if at a later period, with the omentum, colon, small intes- tine, or abdominal portion of the serous mem- brane. The Fallopian tubes in some instances continue free, but more ordinarily become firmly united with the tumour, round which they twine, undergoing a degree of elongation corresponding to its increasing dimensions. The local symptoms of ovarian carcinoma are mechanical and functional. The former follow precisely the same course as those of ovarian tumours in general, changing with their size and position in the pelvis or abdo- minal cavity. The condition of the catamenia varies : they may be irregular, absent, or, as is observed in comparatively rare instances, undergo no change from the healthy state. Lancinating pain is very far from a common attendant on carcinoma in this situation ; nor is it possible, upon the foundation of cases hitherto pub- lished, to point out any series of symptoms that can be called characteristic of cancer of these organs: that is, of symptoms whereby simple carcinomatous tumours may be inva- riably distinguished from other diseased en- largements of these parts, or whereby the period, at which deposition of cancerous matter in the walls of encysted formations arises, may be announced : yet we are far from believing that by patient, minute, and extensive obser- vation of ovarian disease, such characteristic symptoms might not be found to exist: how- ever, until such observation be undertaken, we can scarcely object with justice to the habit of practical writers, who, in spite of the evi- dences of pathological anatomy, continue to group encysted growths and true carcinoma- tous tumours under the same head of “ ma- lignant disease ” of the ovaries. In order to avoid repetition, we must refer the reader for the symptoms of cancer of these organs to the general article Ovahv. The cancerous cac- hexia is slow in occurring and ill marked. With respect to the state of other organs, we have already mentioned that Cruveilhier regards the secondary development of cancer in the ovary, unless when a sequence of its existence in the uterus, as singularly rare. It has, however, been found co-cxisting with can- cerous disease in various organs ; and exam- ples of multiple development, under these cir- cumstances, may be found in numbers in Dr. Bright’s essay already referred to. Death, in cases of ovarian cancer, more commonly depends upon the change's occurring in, or on some effects produced by, the en- cysted formations to which the carcinoma is usually superadded, than on modifications having their seat in the latter. The fatal event appears in many instances the result of progressive exhaustion and sinking of the vital powers, no particular morbid change being