BRONCHOTOMY. 520 this situation, but I am not aware whether it was the same individual or not. It would appear, then, that generally speaking, the operation of bronehotomy is the best practice in cases where some surgical assistance is required, to relieve dangerous symptoms of obstructed respiration, the con- sequence of a wound. 2. Sometimes the larynx and oesophagus are both opened by a cutting instrument, and at every attempt to swallow, some portion of food escapes through the wound, as does the mucus which accumulates in the trachea. Thus constant irritation is kept up, convulsive cough is excited, the closure of the external wound and the adhesion of the oesophagus prevented, erysipelatous inflammation set up, and the patient is kept in a constant state of agitation until he dies. Now, if the passage of the food and mucus through the wound can be prevented, and the parts kept perfectly quiet, they might heal by the first intention. To effect this object, the patient should not be allowed to swallow, until the adhesive process may be supposed to be fully esta- blished, (he may be fed by an oesophagus tube,) and if bronchitis supervene, bronch- otomy must be performed, to afford a free exit for the mucus, without irritating or dis- turbing the wound. It must be remembered, that a foreign body may enter the trachea, and give rise to a necessity for bronehotomy, the situation where it entered being almost indiscoverable. Portions of clothing may be forced in by a gunshot wound, the trajet of the ball being such as not to lead to a suspicion of the acci- dent. La Martiniere gives a very remark- able case of a child, who had all the symptoms of greatly impeded respiration, with pain in the trachea. The case appeared a very doubtful one ; but a small red spot was per- ceived just below the cricoid cartilage, and under this a small hard body was felt. It was cut down on, and a pin extracted. It ap- peared that the child had been playing with a whip, which had a pin at the end of the thong, and in smacking the whip the accident had occurred. 3. A blow or contusion on the front of the neck may cause impediments to respira- tion. The membrane connecting the rings of the trachea may be ruptured, or the ossified laryngeal cartilages fractured, giving rise to emphysema. In such a case pretty free punc- tures should be made to prevent the further insufflation of the cellular tissue, and conse- quent unpleasant results. Inflammation may be set up by a blow, and bronehotomy may be required on account of its effects. Mr. Liston operated with success in a case of this kind. A girl, aged eight years, had fallen and struck the larynx against a stone. Such symptoms were produced, that three hours after the accident death seemed rapidly ap- proaching. Tracheotomy was then performed, and with complete success. The symptoms in this case appeared to arise, not only from the injury to the larynx, probably occasioning loss 3 of power in its muscles, but from the collec- tion of some fluid in the trachea and its rami- fications. 4. Suffocation has been produced by retrac- tion of the tongue, after division of the genio- hyoid muscles, either by wound, or after the operation of removing part of the lower jaw. Bronehotomy might be necessary, if there was no tube at hand by means of which the lungs could be inflated. 5. From the effects of injury, and some- times from other causes, as the extension of erysipelas from the face, diffuse inflammation attacks the cellular tissue of the neck, and might so seriously impede respiration, as to render bronehotomy advisable, provided relief were not afforded by free incisions. An erysi- pelatous or diffuse form of laryngitis has been also described, in which Mr. Porter thinks an operation would be valueless, and death in- evitable. VI. In cases of suspended animation. Whether this be produced by drowning, hanging, or strangling, spasm of the glottis, breathing an impure air, or any of the causes before enumerated, the deprivation of oxygen is the cause of death. Hence the necessity for the artificial introduction of air, in all cases where animation has been recently sus- pended. Desault, Pelletan, Mr. A. Burns, Mr. Lis- ton, &c., regard an opening into the wind- pipe as totally unnecessary to effect this pur- pose, on the ground, that as the patient is insensible, the curved pipe of a pair of bel- lows, or an elastic tube can be readily enough introduced into the glottis, either passed through the nostril, or, the tongue being drawn forward, the instrument may be guided along the finger into the glottis. I have before alluded to the indications for bronehotomy, in the treatment of asphyxia in several accidents and diseases, it only remains then to consider them in cases of drowning— hanging, or strangulation—immersion in car- bonic acid gas—breathing other noxious gases —and in the asphyxia of new-born children. 1. In cases of drowning. This is the case which at first sight appears to weigh in favour of the supporters of Desault and his tubes ; for the epiglottis is not closed, and would offer no opposition to their intro- duction. It must be remembered, however, that in almost all cases where perfect suspen- sion of respiration has occurred, actual death follows in five minutes, or less : that these accidents most frequently occur at some dis- tance from the necessary assistance : that if the surgeon have not the necessary instruments at hand, it would be madness to delay bronch- otomy, which could be performed with a pen- knife, till they arrive ; that even if the surgeon be on the spot, and have a tube in his pocket, some little delay would arise in passing it into the glottis, and even then it seems very probable he could not sufficiently distend the lungs without a pair of bellows. It would be absurd to have a patient carried to any insti-