ANUS. 349 strength and warmth, on being placed beside the mother. No fever followed the opera- tion. “ After a lapse of twelve days, the anus showing a disposition to become narrow, it was necessary to have recourse to the intro- duction of meshes smeared with tallow, for which gum elastic bougies were substituted after a few days.” These two cases are of the highest inte- rest, and present a point of comparison, upon which it may be useful to dwell lor a moment. In M. Roux’ case, the patient was a male, and the rectum was opened at the point where it was found within the pelvis. The inconve- nience and suffering resulting from the growth of granulations along the track of the wound, was severely felt, and might have compro- mised the ultimate success of the operation. M. Amussat having observed, in two cases in which he had previously failed, that his want of success was attributable to the resorption of bile, infiltration, and the formation of ab- scesses along the artificial opening, supposes, and apparently upon strong grounds, that the fatal termination which almost always takes place in a short time, when the rectum has been opened with a trochar, bistoury, or lancet, may be accounted for by the want of protec- tion which a mucous surface would afford to the new passage. He relies for his conclusion, it is true, only on one case, but, as he very justly remarks, “ This case is not to be re- garded merely as an additional testimony in favour of the power of surgery ; the success of the operation is a point of inferior interest, when compared with the possibility of doing in almost every case, that which, before this operation had been performed, we had no idea might be done ; in a word, the important point, was to show that we could accomplish through the natural passage, that which Littre had proposed to do through the parietes of the abdomen, and which A. Dubois, Descaux, Duret, and others had executed.” M. Amussat reduces the various malforma- tions of the anus to five species, which he classifies thus :— In the first the anus is preternaturally nar- rowed ; in the second, the anus is closed up by membrane ; in the third, the rectum is in- tercepted by a simple septum, at a variable distance from the anal opening ; in the fourth, the anus is imperforate, and the rectum is deficient to a greater or less extent. This is the most numerous class of these malforma- tions, and comprises the case above described, as the vaginal anus may be regarded merely as a superfluous opening. In the fifth, the rec- tum opens into some other organ, as the blad- der, urethra, and vagina, or at some point of the pelvis or sacrum. Each of these species, he advises should be treated as follows : in the first, an incision of the anus should be made, and the opening dilated ; in the second an opening should be made in the centre of the membrane, which should be excised all round as high as the sphincter, and the open- ing maintained by means of tents or meshes ; in the third, after dilating, or slitting the anus at its back part, and on its side, the mucous membrane should be detached and the rectum drawn down, the inferior portion is then cut off, above the septum, and the gut is sutured either to the sphincter, or what is still better, to the skin. M. Amussat thinks himself justi- fied in proposing this operation, on the ground that in the cases where the septum has been only punctured, the children have died ; in the fourth, M. Amussat’s example is the best that can be followed. It may, however, be observed that although he deserves the high- est praise for the great skill and judgment dis- played in the planning and performance of this interesting operation, the surgeon, in any similar undertaking should not overlook the very great importance of utilizing the sphinc- ters wherever it is practicable. The external incisions should therefore be so conducted, that the rectum when drawn down, shall be in its natural situation between them, for thus only can the complete function of the anus be established. In the fifth, he is also of opinion that the same process may be adopted, unless the abnormal anus performs its functions satisfactorily. But when the intestine opens into the bladder or the urethra, the posterior wall only should be drawn down, because if the opening could not be closed an extravasa- tion of urine might ensue. Bibliography.—Saviard, Observations Chirurgi- cales. Paris, 1702. Paget, Remarques sur les abees qui arrivent au fondement. Memoires de l’Acad. Royale Chir. i. 289. Paris, 1819. Ibid, Foubert, Sur les glands abees du fondement, iii. 439. Drasdor, De ani abscessibus. Paris, 1761. Pott, Cbirurgical Works. London, 1790. Petit, Traite des Alai. Chir. Paris, 1790. Sabatier, De la Medecine Operatoire. Palis, 1810. Boyer, Traite de Mai. Chir. Copeland, Ob- servations on the principal diseases of the rectum and anus. London, 1810. Howship, Practical observa- tions on the diseases of the lower intestines and anus. London, 1820. Hawkins, C., Cases of abscess in the pelvis, with clinical remarks. London Med. Gaz. x. 817. (1832.) Danyau, Des abees a la marge de l’anus. These de concouis. Paris, 1832. Velpeau, Art. Anus, Diet, de Med. Paris, 1833. Merat. Art. Fissure. Diet, des Sciences Med. Paris, 1816. Baillie, M., Case of stricture of the rectum produced by a spasmodic contraction of the internal and exter- nal sphincters of the anus. Trans. Col. Pliys. London, 1815. Boyer, Sur quelques maladies de l’anus. Jour- nal Comp, de Sc. Med. 1818. Delaunay, Essai sur la fissure, ou gerqure de l’anus. These, 1824. Base- dou, Uber de strictura ani spastica. In Graefe and Walther’s Journ. Chir., vol. vii. Berlin, 1826. Begin, Observations relatives aux fissures de l’anus, &c. Rccueil de Mem. de Med. Milit. Paris, 1826. Lou- vet-Lamarre, Constriction spasmodique du sphincter de l’anus guerie par l’emploi simultane de meches de charpie, et de preparations de belladone. Nouv. Bib. Med. ii. 389. (1827.) Motile, Memoires sur les fis- sures a l’anus. Melanges de Med. et Chir., ii. 31. Paris and Lyons, 1827. Thibord, Essai sur la gerqure, ou fissure a l’anus. These, 1828. Paillard, Fissure a Tanus, guerie sans recours a l’incision, ni de la cau- terisation. Rev. Med., 1829. Duroutge, Diss. sur la constriction spasmodique du sphincter de l’anus, ac- compagnee de fissure. These. Strasbourg, 1829. Dela- porte, Obs. sur l’heureux emploi de la belladone dans un cas de fissure et de constriction spasmodique de l'anus. Journ. Gen. Med. cx. 329. Paris, 1830. La-