713 CATARACT. Upon a careful examination of the eye the slight opacity which is observed in glaucoma or amaurosis is of a greenish colour, deep- seated, and in general so slight that, to an ex- perienced observer, it does not account for the degree of blindness of which the patient complains. When the pupil is dilated with belladonna, also, the lens may be seen to be quite transparent, vision is not improved, and the opacity which exists appears more dis- tinctly seated in the situation of the retina. In cataract the opacity is always of a whitish grey colour, and, when the pupil is dilated, the opacity is distinctly seated immediately behind the iris, and in the situation of the ciystalline lens. Even when the posterior part of the capsule of the lens only is affected, the opacity, though deeper seated, is always striated, spotted, or radiated, but never uni- form, as in glaucoma. In cataract the opacity appears to be greater when the pupil is dilated ; in amaurosis and glaucoma it seems to be less than it was before the dilatation. The mobility of the iris and form of the pupil, when accurately observed, may assist materially in forming a diagnosis. In cases of incipient cataract, the form of the pupil is regular, and its motions are as lively and ex- tensive as if the eye was not affected with disease. Whereas in amaurosis the pupil is sometimes dilated and of an irregular form, and it is either immoveable, or its motions are tardy and limited. In cases of amaurosis there is a peculiar ex- pression of the eyes easily recognized by an experienced observer. This consists in the patient having a vacant unmeaning stare with- out directing his eyes to any particular ob- jects ; and he does not readily direct the eyes to objects even when they are presented to him. In cases of cataract, however, these circumstances do not occur. “ The eyeball in glaucomatous amaurosis always feels firmer than natural, while in cata- ract it presents its usual degree of resistance to the pressure of the finger'.” In glauco- matous amaurosis the eyeball I have often found also to be preternaturally soft. Catoptrical exploration of the state of the lens as regards its transparency or non-transparency. This mode of exploring the eye, first invented by Professor Purkinje of Breslaw, has come into general notice only since M. Sanson published his clinical observations on the sub- ject. “ The young practitioner ought never to pronounce absolutely even on the existence of cataract without dilating the pupil by bella- donna, and examining the eye catoptrical/y; and the most experienced may derive advan- tage from exposing in this way the whole field of the disease to his view, and testing the state of the crystalline 2.” If a lighted candle be held before the pupil of a sound eye, three reflected images of it are seen situated one behind the other. Of 1 Mackenzie, p. 639. * lbul, p. 642. these the anterior and posterior are erect, the middle one inverted. The anterior is the brightest and most distinct, the posterior the least so. The middle one is the smallest. If the candle be moved, the two erect images follow it; but the inverted image moves in the opposite direction, though not so quickly and extensively as the other two. The anterior erect image is produced by the cornea ; the posterior, by the anterior surface of the lens ; and the middle or inverted image is from the posterior surface. If the whole crystalline body be opaque, no image but the anterior erect one from the cornea is seen. This is of course the case also if the anterior part alone be opaque ; but if it is the centre or the posterior part only which is opaque, the two erect images are seen, but the middle or inverted one is not. To apply this catoptrical method to assist the diagnosis of cataract, when the ordinary mode of examination may not have cleared away all doubt, “ the observer and the pa- tient should be placed in moderate day-light; the patient’s back is to be turned towards the window ; he should be seated, so that the observer may look rather down into the eye than upwards ; and a candle is to be used which burns steadily, and does not blaze much. “ Cataract, even at an early stage, obli- terates the inverted image, and renders the deep erect one very indistinct. Glaucoma, only when much advanced, obliterates the inverted image, while, in all its stages, it renders the deep erect one more evident than it is in the healthy eye.” Dr. Mackenzie has found that in glaucoma, at a middle stage, the inverted image is pretty distinct, when formed near the edge of the crystalline ; but if the candle be brought in front of the eye, the inverted image is less distinct, and in some cases is altogether ex- tinguished. This extinction of the inverted image is owing to a loss of transparency in the kernel of the lens which, in glaucoma, Dr. M. has found suffers a peculiar degene- ration, characterized by dryness of substance, and a reddish brown colour. In incipient lenticular cataract the inverted image, though changed neither in colour nor in size, is indistinct, and its outline as if washed off. It is extinguished long before the cataract is fully developed—a fact of the greatest importance, Dr. M. remarks, in the diagnosis betwixt glaucoma and cataract, be- cause in lenticular cataract, it is not the kernel of the lens, but the superficial laminae, which are first affected, so that the formation of the inverted image by any part of the posterior surface of the crystalline body is prevented. “ In capsulo-lenticular cataract, the inverted image fades much sooner than in mere len- ticular cataract; and even when the capsule, or the superficial substance of the lens, seems to be alone opaque, the inverted image disap- pears much sooner than we should expect from the apparently moderate degree of opacity. “ In lenticular cataract, there is merely a