101 AMAUROSIS. subject to this form of amaurosis, and it occurs most frequently between the period of puberty and the middle period of life. Treatment — consists in first subduing or removing the source of exhaustion, as by checking loss of blood, or inordinate secretion or discharge. Suppression of haemorrhage, which is not in extreme, can be generally accomplished with facility ; but when it has been long con- tinued, caution should be used in subduing it, and in subsequent treatment, or a state of plethora may be induced. We but rarely find asthenic amaurosis as a consequence of exhaustion from diarrhoea, dysentery, menorrhagia, or leucorrhcea; I have, however, known the vision affected under such circumstances, but the cases have been of trivial extent, and the amaurosis has quickly disappeared, as the cause of debility has been subdued. On the contrary, asthenic amaurosis is fre- quent during lactation, either in young and delicate mothers who have to support large infants, and endeavour to effect this entirely by the breast, or in such as prolong the period of nursing in spite of exhaustion. In all such cases the child should be taken from the breast as soon as possible. We have much more difficulty in suppress- ing the cause of exhaustion in those addicted to excess in venery or to private gratification of sexual passion. There is something pecu- liar and almost indescribable about the ap- pearance of persons debilitated from such causes, that I can detect the cause very gene- rally from the aspect of the patient ; it is a mixture of anxiety, restlessness, and intole- rance of society, which must be witnessed to be appreciated: this is particularly to be ob- served in those who practice self-gratifica- tion. In either instance it is useless to attempt a cure unless the patient refrain from his per- nicious vices. The practice of onanism, (which often leads to much more serious disease than amaurosis) becomes in some in- stances so confirmed a habit, that (like dram- drinking) the patient appears incapable of re- fraining from it, and it becomes necessary to have him incessantly watched for months before he can be cured of the unnatural pro- pensity : probably the effect of this vice upon the mental power has much influence in lessening correct feeling and destroying moral courage. Excessive purulent discharge which gives rise to asthenic amaurosis is generally con- nected with extensive disease of bone, or pro- ceeds from a largely-exposed surface, and it usually exhausts the patient, unless the dis- eased part can be removed by operation. The debility resulting from deficiency or improper form of food, has its obvious and certain remedy, except in very extreme cases. Deficiency of red blood in the smaller ves- sels I consider to be the cause of diminution or loss of function in the retina which occurs in very elderly persons, in whose eyes we cannot detect any organic change. Rest, and the recumbent posture tend ma- terially to check cerebral mischief and amau- rosis in all of these cases. The cause of ex- haustion being suppressed or mitigated, the next object of treatment should be to restore power and maintain it. This is to be effected, 1. By good nutritious diet: food should be taken at short intervals, in moderate quantity, so as not to overload a weak stomach ; and a portion of stimulus such as the patient has been accustomed to will be serviceable, but it must be cautiously given, because under cir- cumstances of much debility it is apt to pro- duce over-excitement, which is always preju- dicial ; when its exhibition is followed by flush- ing, restlessness, and headach, it should be laid aside for a time. In these cases there is often a relish for sour and indigestible food, which should of course be forbidden. 2. By mental and bodily quietude ; which are essential, as preventing further loss of power, and as aiding the operation of other remedies. 3. By medical agents, the best of which are the preparations of iron, of zinc, of bark, of strychnine, &c., and, in some cases, nar- cotics, and anti-spasmodic or anti-hysterical remedies are necessary. According to my experience, the prepara- tions of iron are by far the most valuable of these remedies, as promoting the formation of red blood, and increasing the vigour of the circulation. I prefer small and frequently re- peated doses to large doses. In very young and delicate patients I usually give the vinum ferri, and commence with doses of ten minims, and even less sometimes ; in those of more advanced age I employ the compound steel mixture, in half-ounce doses to begin with, or the sulphate of iron in substance in pill; and I have used largely a tartrate of iron, made by mixing fine iron filings with the crude super- tartrate of potash (equal weight of each) ; the mass is covered with distilled water, and sub- mitted frequently to alternation of heat and cold, being occasionally boiled, and afterwards exposed out of doors ; fresh portions of dis- tilled water are added from time to time, and the whole is frequently stirred : when the preparation has acquired a uniform dark red- ish brown colour it is fit for use ; of a satu- rated solution in distilled water, I prescribe from half a drachm to two drachms 'twice or thrice in each day. The preparations of iron are especially serviceable in those cases which result from haemorrhages, from menorrhagia, from excess of lactation, or from inordinate seminal discharge. When the cure is tedious, I find it advantage- ous to vary the form of the remedy occasional!y, and to give it in combination with other prepa- rations, as the sulphates of iron and zinc toge- ther, in pill or solution, or either, with the compound galbanum pill, or with ammonia, or other anti-spasmodic ; these are useful addi-