ECTOPIA. 61 Retraction ig exhibited in the general fall- ing in of the walls of the affected side, fol- lowing absorption of pleuritic effusion (vide Empyema) ; or attending in rare instances the progress of pneumonia'. Examples of depression are furnished by sinking in of the cranial surface from fracture ; of the thoracic parietes from pulmonary atrophy consequent on tuberculization; and by the supero-inferior and antero-posterior flattening of the skull artificially produced by certain American tribes. See Fig. 209. Fig. 209. Fig. 209. Head of a Toltecan with antero-posterior fattening of the cranium. From Morton's Crania Americana. Vide Brit, and For. Med. Rev. vol. x. p. 481. 1840. C. DISPLACEMENTS CHARACTERISED BY A CHANGE OF SITUATION (HeTEROTOPDE). VI. Heterupsia3. By this term is under- stood an alteration in the natural level of any part, whereby it assumes a higher or a lower position in the body, than it normally holds. This alteration may consist in £. Elevation. t. Proptosis*. Elevation of the uterus is a normal occur- rence at a certain period of pregnancy : ele- vation attends enlargement of the ovaries, when diseased accumulation has increased their size to a certain amount. Proptosis, or the state in which the position of a part is lower than natural, is of two kinds; at least these are commonly admitted. The nature of the displacement, however, is the same in both, its amount alone varying; one being an extreme or advanced degree of the other. They are t. 1. Procidentia, r. 2. Prolapsus. In both the vertical axis of the displaced part existence in thirty-one of thirty-two cases of that disease. 1 See upon this point Dr. Stokes’s work on Dis- eases of the Chest, p. 335. 3 tTepos, other and vxj/os, height. 3 From ir/joTrctrTu> to fall down. remains unchanged to any remarkable extent. Fig. 210 displays the uterus in a state of pro- lapsus ; the displaced organ has here de- scended so low', that it hangs between the thighs. In procidentia the amount of dis- placement is much less. Fig. 210. Fig. 209. Vertical section of the uterus in a state of prolapsus, exhibiting its relations to the surrounding parts [after Cruveilhier]:—a, symphysis pubis ; b, sacrum; c, rectum ; d, anus ; e, upper part of the bladder in its natural position ; f labium pudendi; g, nympha ; h h, anterior and posterior walls of the uterus considerably elongated ; i, cavity of the uterus ; k, orifice of the uterus ; l, posterior cul-de-sac of the peritonaeum ; m, anterior cul-de-sac of the perito- naeum ; n, anterior wall of the vagina inverted ; o, posterior wall of the vagina inverted; p, section of a sort of deep sinus formed by the refection of the posterior wall of the vagina on itself; q, base of the bladder carried downwards and forwards; the bristle marks the orifice of one of the ureters; r, adipose tissue between the vagina, bladder and uterus; s, the urethra distorted. VII. Proothesis1: The condition of an organ or part of an organ removed from the cavity in which it is naturally contained. There are two varieties of proothesis ; v. Protrusion. <p. Hernia. A part is the subject of protrusion, when the cavity, which it normally occupies, is either originally not a closed one, or has ceased to be so in consequence of a solution of continuity having arisen. Thus the eye when hanging from the orbit, and the tongue, when carried from the mouth in consequence of enlarge- ment, furnish examples of protrusion of the former kind : the latter is illustrated by the protrusion of the lung, brain, or abdominal viscera through an accidental opening in the walls of the thorax, cranium, or abdomen. The term Hernia on the other hand may be restricted to the escape of any organ, or of part of any organ, from the shut cavity con- taining it; the displaced part continuing to be invested by, at least, the integuments. The 1 From irpotoOeto, to protrude.