AMPUTATION. 185 already given, of cutting the capsular liga- ment in the same manner as if the operator intended to leave half the head of the bone in the socket. Mr. S. Cooper mentions a case where, from neglecting this point, a very eminent surgeon was unable for half an hour to disarticulate the head of the bone from the acetabulum. Dr. Veitch is also in favour of the circular method. When the muscles are detached from the trochanters, he advises the detachment of the muscles for some little way down the limb, for the purpose of using the bone thus cleared as a lever to facilitate the separation of the head from its articular socket. This step is quite unnecessary, and causes delay. The oval method proposed by Scoutettcn, Cornuau, and Mr. Guthrie, though frequently executed on the dead body, has not as yet been resorted to in the case of a living person. It is thus described :—the patient lies on the sound hip, and the limb is supported in ad- duction by an assistant. The first incision is made from an inch above the great trochan- ter, and descends obliquely forwards to the anterior part of the thigh, to the extent of six or eight inches, if the patient be an adult. This incision terminates at a point at which a perpendicular line from the superior spinous process of the ilium, would cross another line drawn transversely from the tuberosity of the ischium, and divides the integument, and the muscles down to the bone. Another oblique incision of the same length is carried from above the head of the femur downwards and backwards to a little below the tuberosity of the ischium. The joint is thus freely ex- posed ; the capsule and the internal ligament are divided; the head of the bone is luxated outwards ; the knife is carried to the inside of the neck of the bone. The assist- ant now compresses the femoral artery by inserting his thumb and fingers into the wound, and the operation is terminated by cutting downwards and inwards all the soft parts on the in- side of the thigh, so as to unite the two extremities of the inverted V formed by the two first in- cisions. Fig. 50. The lines of incision for amputating at the hip-joint hy the oval method, as proposed i/y Scou- tetten and Cornuau. The numerous methods proposed for am- putating the thigh at the hip-joint have not originated solely in the comparative facility of performance : the very nature of the injury may create a necessity for proceeding in a given way, and exclude the exercise of choice or preference ; and hence it is, that though one mode of proceeding may, in a general sense, be more advantageous than another, they must all be retained as resources for special cases. The majority of the amputations hitherto performed at the hip-joint have been executed according to the flap method, or some of its modifications. This preference seems to have been accorded, both on account of the great bulk of the limb itself, and the anatomical confi- guration of the articulation. If the flap met hod is preferred in amputating the thigh high up near the trochanters, how much stronger must be the reasons for the preference, when the operation is to be performed in the articulation itself! But in the flap method as applied to this operation, there are certain modifications more or less favourable. The flaps which con- tain most skin and least muscle are the best; as the liability to inflammation and extensive sup- puration will be least in flaps so formed. This is one excellence of the mode of proceeding recommended by Mr. Guthrie and Dupuytren. The anterior and posterior flaps, when the state of the soft parts will allow of their being made of equal length, are most readily ad- justed ; and when the parts are extensively injured, as the integuments are divided by a separate incision, an adequate quantity of them may be preserved with very little of the mus- cles. The oblique position of the flaps would also give greater facility for filling up the de- ficiency occasioned by the removal of the head and neck of the thigh bone. The same advantages do not attach to the method when performed on the plan of Lar- rey, Lisfranc, &c. The external flap cannot be made sufficiently full, and ample to corre- spond with the internal one, and most com- monly it will be either so irregular or deficient at its posterior part as to require points of suture to maintain it in coaptation. When the accident has spared only enough of the soft parts to form a single flap, there is no room for choice ; it must be formed as best it may. If the parts on the anterior and inter- nal region of the thigh are sufficient, the plan of Manec and Ashmead will afford the best result; the section being made from without inwards, and the skin being divided first, a flap ample of skin and scant of muscle is thus pro- cured. Velpeau, in a case in which he adopted this plan, describes the flap as covering the wound without effort, and remaining properly applied as it were, by its own weight. The oval method is of very easy execution, if we may be allowed to judge from what we observe on the dead subject; but the cover- ing it leaves at the upper part of the wound, where the excavation of joint is to be filled up is rather scanty. This inconvenience might be obviated by making the incisions some- what after the manner Larrey amputates the shoulder-joint. The circular method is the most difficult of execution, and the least advantageous of all, for amputation of the thigh in the articulation.