539 BURNS AND SCALDS. Sometimes again it originates in insulated points on the middle of the sore. This is always a favourable circumstance, since it denotes a tendency to prompt cicatrization. The cicatrix issues from all points of the lowest layer of the adjacent epidermis, accord- ing to M. Breschet1. To these layers are added others in suc- cession, until the pellicle has attained the level of the surrounding epidermis. The granulations, improperly called fleshy, are insensible. They belong to the epider- mic mucous-matter. When cicatrization is finished, the primitive integument is replaced by a new texture somewhat analogous, but still sufficiently different to be easily re- cognised. It is more dense and less vas- cular ; it is generally destitute of papillae ; and its surface, smooth, arid, and glistening, is traversed by waved-lines and knotty cords. The cicatrix for some time after its forma- tion is red and injected ; but ultimately be- comes of a dull-white, or at all events of a paler hue than the neighbouring integument, from diminished vascularity, and non-repro- duction or modification of certain elements of the cutaneous organ. When it is other- wise, the redness seems to depend on a con- gested state of the subjacent derma, as is very visible through the attenuated and nearly diaphanous scarf-skin. The sense of touch is long preternaturally obtuse in the new formation. It is to this, the third degree, that the greater number of burns caused by the sudden burst of flame from the deflagration of gunpowder belong. They are easily distinguished by means of the black or speckled eschar, owing to the introduction into its texture of the carbon of the powder. In a great number of burns from this substance, a portion of the grains which have escaped combustion, propelled w ith projectile force, penetrate and lodge in the skin. The bluish black points thence resulting, impart a tattoed appear- ance to the skin, which is generally perma- nent. unless great pains have been taken at the moment of the accident to extract each particle. In the fourth degree, which may be con- sidered as the consummation of the three preceding, there is total disorganization of the skin, together with the subcutaneous cel- lular tissue. The eschar is remarkable for its superior compactness ; its thickness, which is from one-and-a-half to two lines or more ; its density and its complete insensibility. It seems, as it wrere, superimposed upon the subjacent parts. In the case of severe scalds it is of a softish consistence, and of a yellow or grey colour ; but u'hen the agent is an ignited solid substance, it is uniformly dry, hard, inflexible, coriaceous, brittle, and 1 See an elaborate analysis of bis memoir on the structure and function of the skin, in the Dublin Journal of Medical and Chemical Science for Sep- tember, 1833. sonorous, presenting a brown or black colour. Round the margin, where the charring is most complete, the skin seems puckered, whilst the surface of the eschar is depressed, and radiated from centre to circumference. The pain ceases along with the action of the cause ; but persists with more or less in- tensity in the adjoining integuments, which present the characteristic signs of the for- mer degrees, namely, erythema, swelling, phlyctense. The augmented thickness of the eschar here furnishes the means of differential diagnosis. Towards the fourth day, as formerly indi- cated, the pain is revived in the point of injury ; pungent and burning over an ex- tent proportional to the size of the slough. At this period, a reddish inflammatory zone encircles the eschar. The pain increases progressively with the inflammation up to the eighth or ninth day, when separation begins to be effected : it then abates. While this process is being established, the inflammation becomes concentrated, subsiding in the parts remote from the scene of action. More or less tumefaction is manifested also on the commencement of disunion between the dead and living textures, first indicated by a line of demarcation or furrow in the circumference, which daily approaches the centre until the eschar is completely undermined and insu- lated. The concomitant suppuration becomes gradually more and more abundant towards the end of the term ; and brings away along with it shreds of gangrenous cellular tissue, which exhale a most offensive odour. The time of the fall of the eschar depends on its volume and extent, on the age and tempera- ment of the subject, and usually occurs be- tween the fifteenth and tw-entieth days. Cica- trization is accomplished in one of two ways ; either by re-union of the surfaces of the sore, or by regeneration of the cutaneous structure. The first mode of healing is rare, since it requires for its completion a more exact co- aptation of the sides of the sore, than is usually met with in burns. The following are the steps of the process. So soon as the blood ceases to flowr and the pain is allayed, plastic lymph exudes along the raw surfaces and agglutinates them. By and by numerous new vessels spring from the capillaries, pene- trate on all sides the molecular substance of this effused product, and form a tortuous vas- cular net-work, which progressively passes through the various grades of organic evolu- tion, acquiring sensibility and firmness, so that it is no longer possible to effect disunion with- out producing pain and haemorrhage. The new substance remains for a time more com- pact and vascular than the contiguous parts, but at length becomes so intimately blended with them, as to leave no appreciable trace of its existence. Where the sore heals by granulation, a layer of plastic lymph effused without the vessels, resembling false-membrane, is deposited on the