129 ENCEPHALOCELE. which had passed through an opening in the median line, between the superior and inferior occipital fossae. The cerebellum was intact. We have thus nine cases in which this dis- ease has been treated by incision or excision, in seven of which the operation was speedily followed by death. The case of Held is the only one which can be called successful; and in this the compression employed would, in all probability, have been equally beneficial if employed alone, and certainly, if conjoined with puncture. Incision appears to be equally unnecessary, useless, and dangerous. 3. Treatment by Puncture. This method is obviously confined to cases of hydrencephalocele, as no conceivable bene- fit could result from punctures of the cerebral substance. The first case in which it was employed is recorded by Reiselius ■. The child was born May 22, 1682; and on the 18th of June the tumour was punctured, when about four ounces of serum escaped. The discharge continued throughout the three following days, during which time the child continued feeble, but afterwards became very lively. June 25,—Very well; but the charpie and bandage saturated with serosity. After this the general powers of the child progres- sively declined,the discharge became purulent, and death took place on the 8th of July. The sagittal suture extended into the foramen magnum ; both parietal bones were very livid and adherent to the skin, the left being much more elevated than the right. The tumour was formed by dura mater, distended into a sac containing the cerebellum, which had formed the hernia. The opening was con- founded with the sagittal suture and foramen magnum. The brain was bathed in serosit}'. In the seventh volume of the Medico-Chi- rurgical Transactions, Mr. Earle described a case of encephalocele, situated a little above and to the right of the superior transverse ridge of the occipital bone. Feb. 11, 1812, it was punctured ; and the operation was re- peated on the 15th, 17th, 19th, 21st, 23rd, 25th, and 28th, the sac becoming evidently thickened. Regular pressure was applied ; and no re-accumulation took place until March 14, when the bandage was removed on account of irritation of the sac, and by the 17th it had attained to nearly its original size. It was punctured with a bleeding-lancet, and pressure again made. April 3rd, sac began to fill again, and on the 5th it was again punctured ; 15th, sac inflamed and ulcerated, constitutional irri- tation came on, and the child died on the 23rd. A very small portion of medullary matter was in the occipital opening ; about four ounces of fluid in the lateral ventricles. The sac was lined by layers of lymph, which was so thickly deposited around the aperture, that a probe could scarcely be passed, and w'ould probably, in a short time, have com- pletely closed it. Dr. Baron 1 * states that he has seen a case similar to that of Mr. Earle : “ the tumour was in the same situation, and had been twice punctured. The event of the disease has not yet been ascertained.” Breschet, in a paper on the Vices de Con- formation de VEncephale*, details a case of chronic hydrocephalus, combined with hernia, through an opening in the occipital bone. It was punctured, and about twelve ounces of transparent yellowish serum escaped. Three days afterwards the puncture was repeated, and the same quantity of serum again flowed ; but the child continued gay and lively. Ano- ther puncture was made seven days after- wards, which was followed by feebleness and convulsions, and the child died on the next day. Dr. Horner, professor of anatomy in the university of Pennsylvania, has related a case of hydrencephalocele, containing the posterior lobes of the cerebrum forming a tumour in the occipital region, after passing through the posterior fontanelle. Dr. Horner says3, “ I concluded this to be a case of congenital hy- drocephalus, which had occurred in the lateral ventricles of the brain before the ossification of the cranium had much advanced, beginning perhaps about the fourth or fifth month of intra-uterine life ; and that the posterior parts of the hemispheres had been protruded back- wards, and, by the progress of the disease and the natural growth of the head together, had been converted into cysts containing serum : that the character of the disease, in short, cor- responded with spina bifida. I therefore de- termined to treat it by evacuating the water.” This tumour was evacuated daily by acupunc- tuating needles, and afterwards, on account of the increased thickness of the fluid, by lancet-puncture ; but convulsions came on, and the child died, seventeen days after birth. On dissection,it appeared that the serous effu- sion in the ventricles had forced out the poste- rior lobes of the cerebrum through the posterior fontanelle. The dura mater surrounding the protrusion was identified with the integu- ments ; the pia mater highly inflamed, in- jected, and universally adherent to the inte- gument. “ Each posterior lobe was distended into a spherical sac containing purulent serum , and having its inner surface in a softened, disorganized state.” The left sac was con- nected with the left lateral ventricle ; but the right was insulated—“ the lateral ventricle on that side being closed by an universal adhe- sion of its contiguous surfaces.” Other parts of the train were unaltered. Mr. Adams4 has related a case, which he considers “ the second on record in which the plan of frequently puncturing the tumour and evacuating its fluid contents, as recommended 1 Medico-Chi i’ll rgi cal Transactions, vol. viii. p. .56. 2 Archives Generates de Medecine, tom.xxv. p. 480. 3 American Journal of Medical Science, vol. iv. p. 530. 1829. 4 Dublin Journal of Medical Science, vol. ii. p. 341. 1833. VOL. II. 1 Loc. cit. Iv