310 ANUS. violent as that attending the dejection of the faeces. To ride on horseback is impossible, and even the sitting posture can be endured only by the patient’s twisting himself so as to press only on one buttock. To relieve this affection, Mr. Copeland re- commends the use of opium and the intro- duction of bougies, observing that “ when the muscle has been dilated and extended several times, it more easily yields to the stimulus of the faeces, and no longer affords the strong impediment which it had heretofore done; or its fibres, which had not perhaps a contempo- rary action, assume a more regular dilatation or contraction, and the symptoms subside And he appears to found this recommenda- tion on the well-known susceptibility of the sphincters to be dilated by artificial means, even to the extent of admitting the whole hand into the rectum. Deferring much to the opinion of this ex- perienced surgeon, we yet apprehend, that, in the aggravated form of the disease, the in- troduction of a bougie is unscientific in prin- ciple and inapplicable in practice. We assent to the proposition in the “ earlier and lesser degrees of inconvenience which it produces in that stage, in fact, on which inflammation supervenes, and in which there is spasm, and spasm only, produced by some irritant. The patient even discovers of him- self, without knowing the reason, the power which pressure exercises over the disease ; and therefore he rubs his fundament, or squeezes it on the edge of a chair until he obtains relief; and if the end of a bougie be introduced at such a time within the spasmed sphincter, the muscle will soon expend its energy on that instrument. If then the wider part of the instrument be introduced, the natural tone of the muscle may be so far exhausted as to render it unlikely it will so soon resume its spasmodic action ; and time will therefore be afforded for the institution of such measures as w ill remove not only the offending matter, but the condition of the organs which caused its detention, and there- by the intestines may be solicited to resume a regular action. But it is very different when congestion and inflammation have supervened. Pressure, instead of affording relief, produces great pain; the patient not only does not rub the part, but he is frightened at the sight of his surgeon lest he should touch it; and it re- quires a strong exercise of the mind on the part of the sufferer to refrain from springing off, when the surgeon’s finger approaches his anus. Here the spasm, originally the cause, is now the consequence, of inflammation ; and the adoption of means which were suitable before its supervention, can only tend to in- crease it, while it is the surgeon’s aim to di- minish it in the soonest possible time. Yet, in attacking the inflammation, it is to 1 Op. cit p. 53. be borne in mind that we are dealing only with an effect; and wre must not lose sight of the obligation to attempt at the same time the removal of the first cause. The surest and readiest mode of producing present relief, and of placing the patient in a favourable situation for the administration of those means which will restore the integrity of the digestive apparatus, is by dividing the sphincter on each side in the manner pursued in congenital occlusion of the anus. Not only is the sphincter rendered powerless, but the vessels of the congested tissues are emptied of their blood by these incisions, and the local tranquillity which is thereby induced affords the surgeon ample time to accomplish the no less important object of preventing the recur- rence of the affection. In some cases, where the inflammation has not attained so great a height, it is possible to dispense with the operation, by putting the sphincter into a state of temporary paralysis by means of the extract of belladonna diluted with the liquor plumbi diacetatis. This ap- plied round the anus will effect such a relaxa- tion of the sphincter as will admit of the fin- ger, smeared with the same preparation, being introduced into the rectum ; and the neuralgic condition of the parts w’hich keeps up the inflammatory action being for a time annihi- lated, there are reasonable grounds for hoping that by the administration of mucilaginous glysters, the application of leeches, or the puncturing of the distended veins about the verge, and by the proper employment of a hip-bath, the severer operation may be pre- vented. And even should a disposition to relapse be manifested, a repetition of the ap- plication w ill prolong this artificial repose, and enable the surgeon to continue his efforts to dislodge the offending contents of the intesti- nal canal. In the administration of glysters it is im- portant to bear in mind the danger which attends an attempted introduction of the pipe of the instrument during a state of spasm. It is calculated to produce severe mischief in the interior of the gut by its sudden projection on overcoming the obstruction it encounters at the orifice ; and it is to be feared that, by its traction on the skin of the aperture, it may split it and produce that complication of this affection which has been described by Boyer under the name of fissure of the anus, and to which we shall immediately advert. On no account, then, should a glyster-pipe be pressed against the orifice of the anus until the spasm shall first be overcome by other means, and even then it should be in- troduced with great care and gentleness. There is a great probability that persons who habituate themselves to this mode of re- lieving their bowels do injury to themselves, sometimes by their clumsiness and sometimes by their haste, in consequence of the pipe being formed of one unyielding piece. It the tube were composed of two parts, so that the portions destined to enter the rectum should