209 ANEURISM. is a preparation of an artery, the vasa vasorum of which were injected after a ligature had been applied to it, and the internal clot is distinctly reddened with the injection. John Hunter, however, was doubtful whether the red colour of the clot wras produced from in- jected vessels or from effusion. That the fibrinous concretions found within an aneuris- mal sac are organized also, appears extremely probable, from the masses of coagulable lymph which are found within the cavities of the heart, in many instances adhering to, and hav- ing a distinct vascular connection with, the endocardium or lining membrane of the heart; but what appears to me to confirm the opinion of the fibrinous concretion in an aneurismal sac being organized, and being an effusion from the vasa vasorum, is the fact of the coagulum formed in an obstructed vein having been distinctly injected by Mr. Kiernan. A branch of the vena porta had been compressed by a tumour and plugged up by effused lymph, and the arteries having been filled with fine injection, the coagu- lum was reddened on some points and a very considerable sized vessel is exhibited in the preparation passing from the internal coat of the vein into the coagulum. Whilst, therefore, red blood may coagulate in an aneurismal tumour, merely by the dimi- nution in the force of the circulation as shall hereafter be pointed out, the formation of an organized fibrinous concretion must be the result of a different process, and can only be explained by supposing fibrine to be effused from the internal surface of the sac itself, in like manner as coagulable lymph is effused on the surface of an inflamed serous membrane. Coagulated blood.—The coagula of red blood are very distinct, as I have already said, from the concreted fibrine or coagulable lymph which is in immediate contact with the inter- nal surface of an aneurismal sac. Coagula are sometimes found in distinct masses, in contact with the concreted fibrine, and some- times portions of the fibrinous concretion, which hang loose in the cavity of the aneu- rismal sac, are surrounded with coagula of blood. These two different substances, the lami- nated fibrinous concretion, and the coagulated red blood, both of which are found within the aneurismal sac, ought, therefore, to be dis- criminated from one another, more particu- larly as the artificial means which may be adopted to further the production of the one may not be such as are best calculated to pro- mote the formation of the other : and hence, when a surgeon speaks of effecting a coagu- lation of the blood within the sac of an aneurism, he ought to consider, whether the means employed be intended to promote the formation of a fibrinous concretion, or whether they will merely produce a coagulation of some of the red blood contained within the sac. The anastomosing vessels.—It has been stated (sec Anastomosis) that no sooner is the cir- culation in an arterial canal diminished, or VOL. I. altogether interrupted, than the anastomosing vessels enlarge to supply the deficient quan- tity of blood. This change in the inoscu- lating branches is distinctly seen in those of the head, when the carotid artery of the opposite side has been tied; the various rami- fications of the temporal and occipital arte- ries acquiring a very considerable increase in their bulk, and becoming tortuous. But if, during the “spontaneous cure” of an aneurism, the circulation of the blood in the artery be gradually diminished, a corresponding degree of dilatation w ill take place in the collateral branches. And again, if a ligature be applied to a diseased artery for the cure of an aneu- rism, from the circumstance of the inosculating branches having been already employed, for a longer or shorter period, in performing the functions of the obstructed vessel, the anas- tomosing branches will not have to undergo the same degree of change as would have been requisite had the trunk of an artery been sud- denly obstructed. It has also been stated, that whilst a vast number of anastomosing branches are, at first, called upon to perform, by their co- operation, the function of an obstructed trunk, the number of dilated branches gradually de- creases, and ultimately the function of the ob- structed vessel is performed by only one or two enlarged anastomosing branches,—and these are found in the very site of the vessel on which the ligature has been placed. (A. Cooper A) Predisposing causes.—In almost every case of aneurism of spontaneous formation, the coats of the artery have been diseased previously to the formation of the tumour, and even in those cases where the aneurism has formed after some violent exertion, there is always reason to suspect that the coats of the vessel have undergone some previous morbid change. An artery, in its healthy state, possesses elasticity sufficient to preserve its natural calibre, notwith- standing any violent muscular efforts, or any inordinate accumulation of blood. But if the power of resistance of the coats of the artery be diminished in any part of the vessel, it can readily be conceived how the coats may then give way, gradually or suddenly, before the lateral impulsion of the blood, and an aneu- rism be thus formed. The changes in the structure of an artery, w hich predispose to the formation of aneurism, are a diminution in the natural elasticity of the coats of the vessel usually accompanied with the deposition of an earthy or calcareous looking matter, or even of bone betwixt the interior and fibrous coat, —all which changes are generally supposed to be the consequence of chronic inflammation. In losing their elasticity, the tunics of an ar- tery are observed to be more or less friable. But whether the changes of the arterial struc- tures are referable to arteritis in an acute or chronic form, or whether this degenerescence takes place from other, and perhaps unknow'n causes, will be discussed in another place. (See Abtery.) If the entire circumference of the vessel be affected, the dilatation will be equal on all sides, all the tunics yielding at the