416 ARTICULATIONS. Cruveilhier has described, as the only dis- ease of which cartilage is susceptible, a rub- bing or wearing away, in consequence of long- continued friction. It is evident that he is describing a process in which a certain change takes place in the cartilage analogous to ossi- fication, and producing a remarkable ebur- natcd or porcelain appearance of the head of the bone. This is rarely observed to happen, except as an accompaniment of rheumatism, and it will fall to be considered under the head of Eburnation. Under these heads, then, it appears that all the idiopathic diseases of articulations may be included consistently with the dictates of a sound pathology. But our view would be incomplete, were we to exclude two very curious and interesting processes which may not inappropriately be styled the efforts of nature to remedy the effects of disease—an- kylosis and pseudarthrosis. Ankylosis consists in the union of articular surfaces so as to limit or prevent motion. It may be osseous, as we frequently see in the vertebral column of persons advanced in life, or ligamentous, of which, examples are met with in old diseased joints. The former is called true, the latter, false ankylosis. The former is very common in articulations of the first and second order, which, indeed, are susceptible of no other species ; the latter is more frequent in the third or most complex class of joints. A sort of pseudo-ankylosis is often met with, resulting from the rigid- ity of the parts surrounding a joint, or from the loss of the due balance of muscular action. The former is exemplified in the con- tractions which follow disease of cellular mem- brane around a joint, as described by Mr. Wickham, and in the contraction of the finger dependent on an abnormal state of the palmar fascia: the latter is exemplified by the rigidity of the phalangeal articulations in old cases of paralysis from lead. Pseudarthrosis, or the formation of a false joint, is an extremely interesting phenomenon, and assumes several different aspects. It takes place in enlargement of the heads of the bones, in old ununited fractures, in unreduced dislocations, and after excision of the articu- lating extremities. Occasionally there seems to be an actual epigenesis, or creation of new tissues, and the new joint is endowed with an articular cavity, cartilage, ligament, and synovial membrane, of which examples, both in man and the lower tribes, have been re- corded by Sir Astley Cooper, Mr. Key, Chaussier, Koeler, Wachter, and others. More commonly the joint consists simply in the connexion of two bones by a ligamentous structure, more or less flexible, but always admitting of a certain extent of motion. This is almost invariably the condition of the false joints formed after excision, or in old ununited fractures. I have now explained and defended the classification of the diseases of joints which will be adopted in the Cyclopaedia of Surgery. That it is open to some objections I am very sensible, but I know of no other arrangement which would be equally consistent with the actual state of our pathological knowledge. To resume, the present article may be con- sidered as the prolegomena to the whole sub- ject, and the different abnormal conditions of articulations will be considered under the fol- lowing heads:— 1. Lesions resulting from external injury. Wound. Sprain. Luxation. 2. Idiopathic diseases. Articular osteitis. Diseases of fibro-cartilage. Diseases of articular ligaments. Diseases of synovial membrane. Synovitis—acute and chronic. Chondritis, or ulceration of cartilage. 3. Processes the result of disease, but not in themselves morbid. Ankylosis. Pseudarthrosis. The reader will find these subjects taken up in their alphabetical order in other por- tions of the Cyclopedia. Bibliography.—All the systematic works on sur- gery may be consulted, and there are few medical journals or surgical miscellanies which do not contain articles on the diseases of joints. The following books and papers well deserve consultation Cyclo- pedia of Anatomy and Physiology, art. Articula- tions. Brodie, Pathological Observations on Diseases of,Joints. Boyer. Sur les Maladies des Os. Crowthcr, On White Swelling. Cruveilhier, Sur les Cartilages Diarthrodiaux. Arch. Gen. de Medecine. Feb. 1824. II. Cooper's Surgical Essays. Curtmann, Morboruni Articulationis ac Symphyseos brevis TEtiologia ac Diagnosis. Ciessse, 179/. Champigny, Dissertation sur les Corps Etrangers qui se forment dans les Ar- ticulations. Paris, 1803. Doerner, De Gravioribus quibusdam Cartilaginum Mutationibus. Tubingen, 1798. Enckelmann, De Fungis Artie. Argentor. 1749. Ford, On Diseases of the Hip-joint. Hunter, On the Structure and Diseases of Articular Cartilage. Phil. Trans, vol. xlii. Herdman, On White Swelling and Inflammation. Heuligers, Dissertatio Physiol. Anat. dcFabrica Articul. 1803. Haase., Dc Fabrica Cartilag. Lips. 1767. Howship, On the Formation of New Joints, Medico-Chirurgical Transactions, vol. viii. Isevjlamm, Dissertatio de Ginglymo, Erlangen, 178'). Key, On Ulceration of Joints, in Mcdico-Chirurg. Trans, vol. xvi and xix. Kreisiy, De Fungo Articular. Viterb. 1799. Mayo, On Ulceration of Cartilage in Medico-Chirurg. Trans, vol.xvii. and xix. Mrffuit,Sur les Phlcgmasics dcs Membranes sereuses des Articu- lations. Paris, 1810. Pirondi, Dc la Tumeur blanche dcs Gcnoux. Paris, 1836. Russell, On Morbid Affec- tions of the Knee. Reimaries, De Tumorc Ligamcnt- orum circa Artie. Leyd. 1557. Stanley's Cases of Injury to the I lip-joint, Mcdico-Chirurg. Trans, vol. xiii. Syme, On Excision of Diseased Joints. Seott, On Diseases of Joints. Wickham. On Diseases of Joints, Velpeau, Anatomie Chirurgicale. Velpeau, Mede- cinc Operatoire. {.John Blackburn.) ASCITES (from daubg, literally ‘ a wine- skin metaphorically, ‘ the belly ’), abdominal dropsy, a complaint belonging to the province of medical pathology. Surgical treatment is, however, frequently required for its cure; and all particulars relating to such treatment will be found under the head Paracentesis Ab- dominis.