BLOOD-LETTING. 489 sidered either as a certain test of inflammation, or a safe index of the propriety of bleeding. There is usually no appearance of the buft'y coat in blood removed from persons affected with even the most violent inflammations until the latter stage of the disease, and at the very time when the further abstraction of blood would be pernicious. On the other hand, the huffy coat may be frequently observed, in many diseases where blood-letting is unneces- sary, or even hurtful. Quantity of Blood to be abstracted.—It is not uriusual for medical men to give instruc- tions to take a certain quantity of blood from a patient, with the same degree of confidence as they would prescribe a specific dose of some drug. Nothing can be more absurd in prin- ciple, and more injurious to the sick. The only indication to direct us in measuring the quantity of blood which ought to be abstracted in individual cases, is the change produced on the pulse, and on the local pain during the ope- ration. We ought never, therefore, to hazard any preconceived opinion of the quantity of blood which it may be necessary to remove in any case, but always to watch the effects of the evacuation. It often happens, that a pulse in which little deviation from the natural state can be detected, and which, considered singly, would not particularly indicate the ne- cessity of bleeding, begins to rise, and to ac- quire force after a certain quantity of blood has been lost, and its force is not subdued until a large quantity, often much greater than could have been anticipated, is removed. On the other hand, we frequently meet with cases, where the very reverse happens, and where a person, apparently of a full habit, with a strong elastic pulse, becomes quite depressed after losing but a very small quantity. It is singular how small a quantity of blood some persons can lose; even the very impres- sion on the mind that blood is to be abstracted causes sickness, and fainting comes on after a few ounces only of blood have been removed. In such cases, however small the quantity be which is evacuated, there is often a decided relief, the syncope causing even a permanent subsidence of the inflammatory symptoms. No one therefore should pretend to specify the precise quantity of blood which any patient ought to lose ; and the practitioner considers but little the well-being of the sick, when, in- stead of performing the operation himself or being present to observe its effects, he ventures to prescribe the loss of any particular quantity of blood ! Such conduct is highly derogatory to the character of the profession, and calls for the severest animadversion. Another per- nicious effect of this loose way of prescrib- ing so important a remedy may be in- stanced in cases where physicians have al- lowed their patients to remain several hours in a fit of apoplexy, or in a state of great suf- fering, rather than themselves perform the operation of venesection ; it is surprising that the legislature should not have interfered, and indicted the culpable parties,—just as the 7 law punishes those whose want of professional skill is the cause of injury to persons who are placed under their care. In forming an opinion of the probable ex- tent to which bleeding should be carried in different instances, we ought to be aware that, in general, fat people can with impunity lose much less blood than lean persons, and large and robust individuals do not require the same extent of depletion in inflammatory diseases, as those who are thin and appear to be more de- licate. So it is with respect to age, the young and plethoric often bear much less bleeding than the old and thin. To prevent, therefore, the practitioner being guided by any preconceived notions on this point, the blood should always be made to flow into a large basin, and no other circumstance should be allowed to influence the judgment in estimating the quantity to be removed, than the abatement of the local pain, and the changes in the action of the cardiac and radial pulse, to which I have already alluded. When employing venesection, and observ- ing the indications which have already been pointed out in order to regulate its extent, it will be generally found that the quantity of blood which we are able to remove before fainting comes on, is, in fact, never more than is requisite for the cure of the disease. A person in health usually faints from the loss of a comparatively small quantity of blood, whilst the same individual requires, after suffering but a few hours from active inflammation, to lose an almost incredible quantity, before he falls into a state of syncope. At every succeeding operation, fainting comes on from the loss of a smaller and still smaller quantity. Hence the difficulty of attempting to give any thing like a precise idea of the quantity of blood which patients require to lose in the treatment of particular diseases. It would be no less absurd to attempt to specify the quan- tity of purgatives or diaphoretics necessary to complete the cure of a fever! COPIOUS HAEMORRHAGE NOT INJURIOUS. From a general impression that blood- letting ought not to be employed but in dis- eases of a serious character, and that it is a remedy from which much mischief may ensue, if carried to too great an extent, or employed in improper cases, it is no doubt, on many oc- casions, too tardily and too sparingly resorted to, whilst we every day see medicines, the effects of which may be highly injurious, fear- lessly and carelessly exhibited. This dread of blood-letting is not founded on sound obser- vation. Alarming hemorrhages sometimes ensue during, or after, operations ; and it is impor- tant to remark, that those patients recover more quickly, and have much less fever, in whom such a large quantity of blood has been lost. In the spontaneous hemorrhages from mu- cous membranes, as from those of the nose, bronchi, and rectum, it i3 extraordinary what