BUBO. 529 changes in the system, the swelling subsides, the sinuses close, and enlargement of the glands diminishes or disappears. Bubo in a cachectic habit of body.—The cir- cumstances under which we see cachexia most frequently, at all events in the middle and the upper classes, are those which result from the injudicious administration of mercury. It is not always the mere quantity of mercury that is injurious ; for an amount that seems to agree with one person, will exert its delete- rious action on another. The time, and the mode in which it is given, the patient’s habits of life, and, above all, his idiosyncrasy, are elements which materially affect the results. It is generally believed that the scrofulous diathesis is peculiarly prone to suffer from mercury, and no doubt this old opinion is founded in truth. But inadequate or impro- per nutriment exerts a very sensible influ- ence, and intemperance plays a prominent part. Hence it is, that cachexia is most fre- quently observed in the lower orders. The cachectic bubo is characterized by the predominance of the suppurative and the ul- cerative processes, and by a marked tendency to phagedasna or to sloughing. Suppuration, when it occurs, is usually ex- tensive ; the skin is blue, and disposed to be widely thinned and undermined ; the cellular membrane is involved to the same or a greater degree, the absence of the limitations to ab- scess in a healthy person being marked ; the pain is frequently severe, although it is occa- sionally inconsiderable. Unless an opening be made pretty early, and not unfrequently in spite of every precaution, the skin ulcerates or sloughs freely ; a large cavity, with sloughy- looking walls, and with diseased glands, more or less disclosed, is now laid open; granula- tions rise feebly and irregularly, ulcerating or sloughing, perhaps, after they are formed ; the edges of the aperture may continue to ulce- rate, and look picked and jagged ; or they may ulcerate in one direction and granulate in another; the surrounding cellular mem- brane still suppurates irregularly or sloughs, so that sinuses open into the old cavity, or fresh ulcerations form in the skin. A patient in this state is exposed to phage- dffina or to gangrene. Any thing which tends to impair his powers may induce the one or the other ; and mercury, especially, will do so. But sometimes an irritating ap- plication has the same effect. The vitality of the parts appears to be too low to be capa- ble of any great and sudden increase of action. If stimulated to that, the phagedaenic or the sloughing process is the consequence. I once saw a striking instance of this. A young man in the Lock Hospital had a cachec- tic bubo, ulcerated, and in a chronic state. The house-surgeon pared the edges of the ulcer. Phagedaena followed ; it spread widely, and deeplv too ; the femoral artery was laid bare, it ulcerated, and haemorrhage ensued ; fortunately, assistance was at hand, and the bleeding was restrained by pressure ; wine VOL. I. and opium were poured in, and the man was saved. An instructive case, which would have taught any one who witnessed it, to beware of meddling much with buboes of this cha- racter. The more usual course of cachectic bubo is to lapse into a chronic state. The cavity gra- nulates to a certain extent, its size being pro- portionally diminished; but the granulations are unhealthy, dark, imperfectly organized, disappearing, or even sloughing readily ; the gland is probably still diseased, and often pal- pably is so ; the discharge is thin, copious, and irritating ; the edges of the sore, either callous or ulcerating fretfully ; the surround- ing skin blueish ; and the cellular membrane thickened, or traversed by sinuses, or morbid in some other fashion. Such a state may be well termed chronic, for even with the most sedulous and well-directed attention, it may persist for weeks, or even months, and, with- out such care, its duration may be long indeed. A man was received into the Lock Hospital, with such an ulcerated bubo in each groin ; the sores had been nearly in the same state for a year and a quarter before his admission, and, after the lapse of five months’ residence within the hospital, we could not congratulate ourselves on any great improvement. He was, I believe, (for I lost sight of him,) an in-patient for nearly a year before he could be cured. But cases of this kind, if properly managed, are curable sooner or later. The granulations put on a healthy aspect; the diseased struc- ture of the gland is quietly absorbed, or re- moved by instalments of ulceration or of sloughing, or the gland sloughs away bodily ; the diseased cellular membrane is similarly disposed of; the sinuses close, or are laid open ; and cicatrization is complete at last. I think it will be admitted, that these forms of bubo, the simple, the scrofulous, and the cachectic, do present leading characters suffi- ciently distinctive to justify their separation. It may readily be conceded, without dero- gating from the general utility of their divi- sion, that, in the endless modifications which we witness, of constitution and disease, these morbid types are sometimes blended and confused. I have hitherto said nothing of the general symptoms, for they require little notice. In the simple bubo they will be more or less inflammatory, and such as wait upon active local excitement. In the scrofulous and the cachectic buboes, the general symptoms repre- sent, of course, the states those names imply'. For an account of them, I must refer the reader to the particular articles which treat of them. Treatment.—If the multiplicity of remedies be indicative of the success with which disease is treated, the treatment of bubo must, be most successful. I fear, however, that cura- bility and the number of methods of treat- ment are too often in an inverse ratio to each other. It has been wittily remarked, that M M