138 EPISTAXIS. cal structure of the parts from whence it pro- ceeds, and their exposed situation. The mu- cous membrane of the nasal fossae is more delicate than in other parts, great part of it being, according to many observers, destitute of epithelium. It is also extremely vascular, being supplied by the spheno-palatine, naso- palatine, and nasal branches of the ethmoidal arteries ; and numerous veins, some of which accompany the arteries, while others form an abundant reticular plexus in the submucous cellular tissue. Many of the olfactory veins empty themselves into the longitudinal sinus ot the dura mater, and thus any congestion of blood within the cranium necessarily entails a state of engorgement on the pituitary mem- brane. This explains the great relief afforded to those suffering from cerebral congestion, even by slight epistaxis ; the blood from the sinuses of the dura mater passing directly through the fronto-ethmoid vein, which has been left destitute of valves apparently for this purpose. Causes.—The traumatic form is brought on by blows on the nose, falls, wounds, the intro- duction of foreign bodies into the nasal fossae, or the efforts required for their removal ; some surgical operations, as the removal of polypi, and catheterism of the eustachian tube, or of the nasal duct when unskilfully performed ; and the application of strong stimuli, as ammonia, and other irritating sub- stances. The diseases to which epistaxis is most fre- quently consecutive, are those which produce sanguineous congestion in any of the large organs of the body, or which present obstacles to the free circulation of the blood through the vessels of the head, chest, or abdomen, thereby determining to the mucous mem- branes and general surface. Thus it is fre- quently observed towards the termination of phthisis, and other diseases of the lungs and heart in which the thoracic circulation is much impeded ; and it is said to occur so frequently in diseases of the liver, that Portal assures us that it is a pretty constant symptom of hepatic disease. The predisposing causes of the active form are a general state of plethora, under which condition irregular distribution of blood is apt to occur; the suppression of habitual evacua- tion from other parts of the body; inactivity, luxurious habits; abundant, highly nutritious, or stimulating diet, and intemperance. It is very common about the time that the growth of the body is completed, and is said to be more frequent in females than in males. It is common in hot seasons; and the inhabitants of cold countries, when transported into warm climates, frequently suffer from epistaxis during the first two years ; but after this period, it is as rare in them as in the natives of warmer regions. Blumenbach states, that Europeans living in Guinea are very subject to it. It frequently attacks those who ascend high mountains, being merely a physical effect of the diminished pressure of the atmosphere : thus Saussure in ascending Mont Blanc, Bou- guer on the summit of the Cordilleras, Count Zambeccari and Dr. Grasseti in their balloon ascent, all speak of the occurrence of epistaxis; and Humboldt states, that when he was at a great height on Chimborazo, and on the vol- cano of Antisanna, blood escaped from the nose, lips, and eyes. When the predisposing causes have been for a time in operation, the slightest exciting cause will bring on the hmmorrhage, as staying within a hot room, a fit of coughing or sneezing, bodily exertion, or mental emotion. Peculiar odours have been said to excite epistaxis in some persons ; and cases are brought forward by Rhodius, Bruyerin, and others, to prove this ; but it appears very un- likely that the odour of an apple or of a rose could have any relation with epistaxis as cause and effect, the coincidence being in all probability purely accidental. Immersion of the hands or feet in very cold water when the body is hot may produce epi- staxis ; for it is said that on the south side of a mountain in Auvergne there are three or four springs of water so cold, that if in dry hot weather the shepherds immerse their hands or feet, blood escapes from the nose with great violence. Epistaxis may depend on morbid altera- tions in the tissues which enter into the formation of the nasal fossae ; caries of the bones, ulceration of the mucous membrane, polypi, vegetations, fungous growths, and can- cerous, melanotic, or erectile degenerations. Those predisposed to the passive form, are persons enfeebled by long continued bodily disease, mental suffering, or excesses of any kind ; or in whom changes have taken place in the nasal in common with other mucous membranes, and with the blood in scurvy, typhus, purpura haemorrhagica, and other adynamic diseases. In typhus its frequency varies greatly in different epidemics, and in different periods of the same epidemic. In some it is scarcely noticed, while in others it is almost uniformly present. In an epidemic at Barcelona, epi- staxis occurred in almost all the fatal cases; and in the fever at the siege of Breda, a small quantity of black fetid blood is said to have passed from the nostrils in almost all the severe cases. Many writers speak of this as a cause of death ; but the danger is rather in the severe disease upon which the discharge de- pends, than in the quantity of blood lost. Mor- gagni 1 assures us, that epistaxis was epidemic in some parts of Italy in the year 1200 ; but as it is stated to have been very fatal to a great number in the course of twenty-four hours, it was probably a mere symptom of some grave fever. Many authors give cases in which epistaxis became periodical, and it has been observed to recur regularly with the hot stage of an intermittent fever, particularly of the quartan 1 Epist. Anat. xiv. n. 25.