505 bougie. The able author of the article, “ Pathologi- cal Conditions of Bone,” in the Cyclopaedia of Anatomy and Physiology, inclines to the opi- nion that cancer and fungus haematodes are generally, if not always, propagated from ad- jacent parts or structures. In many of Cru- veilhier’s plates, however, the deposit appears in the centre of bones, their walls being unaf- fected ; and there are four similar specimens in the museum of St. Thomas’s hospital. Two of these are described as scirrhous tubercles in the spinal column, and any one may con- vince himself that they were primarily depo- sited in the situations they fill, and are not the effect of extension of neighbouring disease. The other two are described by Sir Astley Cooper in his Lectures ', as scirrhous secretion into the sternum and thigh-bone. The bones were taken from a lady, whose femur broke as she was rising from bed. Scirrhous tuber- cles were also found in the integuments cover- ing each breast, in the glandular structure of the breast itself, and in neighbouring absorbent glands ; also in the substance of the pectoral and intercostal muscles, on the pleura of each side, and on the pericardium ; in the substance of the lungs, liver, pancreas, mesenteric glands, and uterus. Here then we see the bones par- ticipating with the soft parts in the effects of a general disease, but not affected by con- tiguity or continuity of tissue. Medullary sarcoma, or fungus haematodes, are terms applied to a malignant disease of bone, generally arising in the cancellated struc- ture, causing irregular expansion of the compact texture, from the increased deposition or for- mation of matter resembling brain, coagulated blood, or both combined. The symptoms are swelling, increasing very rapidly, acute pain, a varicose state of the superficial veins covering the tumour, the surface of which is irregular, in some parts unyielding, in others soft, and other parts again give a crackling feel like parchment. Ulceration of the skin takes place, and a soft bleeding fungus shoots forth. These signs, with the general appear- ance of the patient, which is characteristic of the cancerous diathesis, are sufficient to esta- blish a diagnosis as to the nature of the dis- ease. See Cancer. Melanosis is occasionally seen in bone. In the museum of St. Bartholomew’s hospital are three specimens of bones so affected, which were taken from a person in whom melanotic matter was found in other organs. There were also two such preparations in Mr. Lang- stafTs museum. Some of these malignant growths doubtless arise from the medullary membrane, others in the proper osseous tissue. The periosteum is also the seat of a malignant tumour called fibro-sarcoma, which is dense, fibrous, and white, or straw-coloured. It frequently forms on the cranial aspect of the dura mater. Louis relates a case in the fifth volume of the Memoircs de 1’Academic de Chirurgie, in i Vol. ii. pp. 184—189. which a fungous tumour of the dura mater produced destruction of the temporal and parietal bones in a child two years old. Simi- lar cases are recorded by Walther in Graefe’s Journal. See Dura Mater. Mr. Mayo mentions that Mr. Sweatman has a specimen of scirrhous periosteum, which was taken from a patient who had cancer in the breast. “ The dura mater, and pericranium, and orbital periosteum, for a considerable ex- tent on the affected side of the head, were found to be thickened and hard; the dura mater was at one part a third of an inch in thickness; the arachnoid adhered to it, and partook in the same thickening. The bone is not diseased, but is something more vascu- lar than usual.” Several preparations show- ing partial and general thickening of the dura mater and pericranium may be seen in the museum of the College of Surgeons. This article is to be considered as a mere sketch of an important subject, simple and interesting in itself, but which has been ren- dered complicated and abstruse by the majo- rity of those who have written on it. Bibliography.—Malpighi. De Ossiutn Structure. Lond. 1675. Havers, Osteologia Nova. Lond. 1681. Petit, Traite des Maladies des Os. Paris, 1723. Che- selden, Osteographia. Lond. 1733. Duvemey, Traite des Maladies des Os. Paris, 1751. Rcederer, De Os- sium Vitiis. Gott. 1760. Scarpa, De Penitiori Ossium Structure. Lips. 1799. Bichat, Anatomie Generate. Paris, 1819. Spoendli, De Sensibilitate Ossium Mor- bosa. Gott. 1814. Richerand, Nosographie Cliirurg. Paris, 1817. Wilson, On the Structure and Physiology of the Skeleton, &c. Lond. 1820. Walther, in Graefe’s Journal. Berlin, 1820. Cumin, in Edinb. Med. and Surg. Journ. 1825. B. Bell, On Diseases of Bones. Edinb. 1828. Cruveilhier, Anat. Pathol. Paris, 1829. Berzelius, Traite de Chimie. Paris, 1833. Sanson, Diet, de Med. et de Chir. Prat. Art. Os, Maladie des. Paris, 1834. Mayo, Outlines of Human Patho- logy. Lond. 1836. Stanley, in Med. Gazette, vol. xx. Lond. 1837. See also Bostock, Howship, and Curling, in Med. Chir. Trans, and Benson and Porter in Cyclo- paedia of Anatomy and Physiology. For particular treatises see Bibliography at end of separate articles. ( Thomas Spencer Wells.) BO NE-KNIPPERS ; tenacula, Lat. te- nailles incisives, Fr. An instrument for cut- ting off portions of bone or cartilage. It is formed like a forceps, w'ith strong handles and edges that cut clean when brought to- gether. BOTTINE, (ocrea levior,) a name given by French surgeons to a machine shaped like a boot, and furnished with straps, springs, buckles, and pads. It is employed to correct or prevent deformities of the inferior extremi- ties in children. BOUGIE, (candelula, virga cerea, Lat.; Stfctov, Gr.; Wachskerze, Ger.) literally, a waxen rod or candle. In surgery this word is used to designate long, slender, polished, and generally flexible instruments of a cylin- drical shape, which are employed in the cure of diseases of the urethra, and of the other mu- cous passages of the body.