589 CAMPHOR. fluid ounce every two or three hours. Of course it will be easy to add ether, opium, or ammonia, to this mixture, or to substitute de- coction of hark for the water if desirable. The compound tincture of camphor of the London Pharmacopoeia, each drachm of which contains a quarter of a grain of opium, and rather less of camphor, is a good preparation for children after severe burns, or at other times when they require cordials and opiates. Milk is an excellent vehicle for camphor, forming with it a smooth emulsion, which does not spontaneously separate1. In neuralgia, camphor is very frequently employed both internally and locally, but with no more than the very fickle benefit derivable from many other medicines. It is also sometimes used as a remedy for chronic rheumatism, and to assuage the pains of ve- nereal nodes. It may be given internally in combination with opium, or the extracts of henbane, conium, or aconite ; and locally, may be applied by means of liniments or fumi- gations2. In acute gonorrhoea, camphor is very fre- quently resorted to in order to prevent pain- ful erections and ehordee. And its employ- ment in these cases is an excellent illustration of the diversity of its effects in different doses, and the diversity of opinions regarding its value as a medicine. It is a well-established fact, that a large dose will often cause fre- quent and scalding micturition, and erections during sleep. Hence some authors have declared it to be positively injurious in gonorrhoea. On the other hand it is a mat- ter of notoriety that it occasionally produces a perfectly opposite effect on the genitals. During the time that the cholera was pre- valent at Paris, many persons wore camphor about their persons as a preventive, and con- tinually breathed an atmosphere impregnated with it; and it was a common complaint amongst those who did so, both males and females, that they lost both inclination and ability for carnal indulgences. M. Guer- sent also states that camphor refiners are very frequently impotent3. There is, therefore, no reason for doubting that it may be made to exert its antiaphrodisiac powers in gonor- rhoea. For this purpose it may be given in doses of five grains at bed-time, combined with small doses of calomel, James’s powder, nitre, or extract of henbane, according to circumstances. Camphor is also of use in mitigating the spasmodic difficulty of micturition and pain at the neck of the bladder, which are some- times caused by blisters of cantharides in young irritable subjects. But this accident is by no means so frequent as is sometimes represented; and it may be got rid of by warm anodyne fo- mentations, and warm demulcent drinks, as well as by camphor. It used formerly to be some- 1 Cassils, Ed. Med. Journ. vol. viii. p. 123. 2 Dupasquicr, Rev. Med. 182G, vol. ii. p. 218. 3 Guerscnt, Diet, de Med. Paris, 1834. Art. Cutnphre. times administered internally, or sprinkled on blisters before their application, as a preven- tive of strangury, but this seems to be perfectly useless. Camphor has also been found of some benefit in spasm of the (Esophagus, and of the sphincter ani. In similar cases it may be administered internally, or in the form of enema, composed of one scruple of it, with six ounces of warm milk. The uses of camphor as a topical remedy are exceedingly numerous. When applied to inflamed surfaces in a manner that permits of its evaporation, it acts as a refrigerant. A cerate formed by dissolving a scruple of camphor in an ounce of melted spermaceti ointment, is a popular and highly soothing application to slight burns, or to parts that have been rendered red and sore by exposure to sun or wind ; as well as to parts excoriated by friction or by the contact of irritating secretions. The ceratum plumbi compositum of the Pharmacopoeia, an admirable defensa- tive for excoriated surfaces, contains a small portion of it. Dissolved in oil, it is a fa- vourite remedj’- with some surgeons for erysi- pelas. It is also sometimes mixed with flour, which forms a most soothing application in the last named malady. The Camphor mixture of the Pharmacopoeia is very often made the vehicle of other reme- dies in lotions, collyria, and gargles, but it contains so small a proportion of camphor that it can add but little to their efficacy. The corrosive sublimate renders it turbid. Camphor is very commonly employed as a daily wash for the mouth, or as atoothpowder, in order to correct a flabby state of the gums, or unpleasant odour or taste in the secretions of the mouth ; and it is admirably adapted for this purpose, for when chewed, it almost invariably renders the tongue moist, and produces a considerable flow of saliva with a peculiar sweetish taste. Nor is this a matter of so little moment as a superficial thinker might deem it, for on the one hand the secretions of a foul mouth with rotten teeth are very apt to disorder the stomach, and ought, therefore, to be corrected and removed ; and on the other hand, if the secretions of the mouth are vitiated in con- sequence of disorder of the stomach, no one of any experience can doubt that by putting the mouth in a comfortable condition the ap- petite is improved, and a healthful disposition communicated to the succeeding portions of the alimentary canal. In relaxed or ulcerated sore throat, or loss of voice, camphor is sometimes used as a stimulating gargle, which may be made by adding the spiritus camphora; to water. Camphor is a leading ingredient in many of the multifarious specifics for toothache. It may be used as a w'ash made with the camphorated spirit, as just described ; or may be made into a paste, with or without opium, by means of alcohol, to fill the cavities of carious teeth ; or its solution in alcohol, or