371 ARM, BEND OF. relief; but these gentlemen preferred “ doing nothing.” The pain in the arm, the increasing weakness of the limb, with its gradual emacia- tion, and its distressing whizzing noise, at last drove the patient to the resolve of having something done ; she returned once more to M. Roux, full of courage, and determined to submit to any operation which presented the slightest hopes of alleviating her sufferings. She was admitted into “La Charite” in 1834, which was about three years after the trial of the Hunterian operation. I saw this patient but once, and on the day of the operation ; the arm was very painful, and much smaller than the healthy one ; the superficial veins (cephalic and basilic) at the bend of the arm were very large and va- ricose, and pulsated as far as the middle of the upper arm ; these pulsations were visible to the eye; the peculiar whizzing noise and thrilling sensation were extremely well marked. At the middle of the upper arm a long cica- trice existed, where the artery was formerly taken up ; at one point of this cicatrice the pulsation of the vessel entirely ceased ; seve- ral smaller cicatrices, evidently the result of repeated venesection, were discernible at the bend of the arm, a circumstance of some im- portance, as their existence (together with a tumor formerly in the same point, which must have produced some disturbance in the exact relative situations of these parts), must make it difficult to point out the precise spot where the artery had been punctured. M. Roux now determined upon cutting down to the brachial artery at the bend of the arm, and applying a ligature upon it both above and below the point where this vessel communi- cated with the vein which was supposed to be the “ median basilic.” I assisted M. Roux in this terrible and perplexing operation. He endeavoured to put a ligature round the ar- tery, first, immediately below its wound. In proceeding towards this step, a large superfi- cial vein was cut (probably the median basi- lic), which poured forth its blood in great profusion: compressing the artery did not entirely arrest it: the quantity of blood gush- ing out of this vein at each pulsation of the artery determined M. Roux to pass a ligature round it by means of a curved needle, taking all precautions to avoid any other surrounding parts, &c. M. Roux again proceeded to- wards the artery, but every incision of the scalpel was followed by a fresh haemorrhage ; the patient complained of acute pain, and the wound was constantly filled with blood ; for these reasons the operator abandoned the idea of laying the artery bare, and, feeling for it with his finger, he was soon satisfied that he could distinguish its pulsation : he then plunged a curved needle and ligature imme- diately beneath his fingers, and tied the artery tight: from this mode of proceeding, other parts besides the artery were necessarily ex- posed to being included in the ligature. The operator believing that the lower extremity of the artery immediately below its communica- tion with the vein was now secured, fancied this single ligature might suffice ; this was in fact reasoning on the Brasdorian principle. M. Roux appealed to me. I put my fingers upon the brachial veins, which pulsated with their wonted force : the idea, therefore, of leaving the patient in this state was immedi- ately rejected. M. Roux now proceeded to take up the artery above its point of union with the vein, the exact situation of which was very difficult to ascertain. Scarcely had the knife been again resorted to, but another large pulsating vein was wounded, which caused profuse bleeding, and was secured by the needle and thread, as before. The dread of further bleeding from the use of the scalpel (which was perhaps too freely used in this peril- ous operation), prompted the operator to em- ploy it no longer; he therefore again resorted to the curved needle and thread, by which he finally embraced the artery : the tightening of these ligatures produced considerable pain. It was now fully believed that the artery was tied both above and below its wound ; never- theless the pulsations at the bottom of the in- cision and in the veins were still very strong. In this perplexing state of things, which could not be accounted for, the surgeon’s in- genuity and knowledge were completely at a stand ; in despair of further benefit, he brought the lips of the incision together, having pre- viously filled up the bottom of the wound with some charpie (French lint), and the pa- tient, extremely exhausted from pain and loss of blood, was conveyed to her bed. Several haemorrhages occurred the following days ; the arm was still very painful ; the veins pul- sated forcibly ; and the dread of fatal haemor- rhage led M. Roux to amputate the upper arm at about its middle. The unfortunate sufferer survived this operation only a few days. M. Roux kindly gave me the amputated limb to dissect, but owing to the various wounds made in the superficial veins, and also to the destruction of parts by suppuration, it was impossible to give a correct view of the more superficial organs ; we took a sketch of the deeper parts, which we hope will be sufficient to explain the peculiarity and the extreme difficulty of this case, and also be a warning to surgeons in future how they undertake an operation so hazardous for the patient, and so perplexing for the operator. By casting a glance over the sketch, the following particularities will be observed. This was a perfect example of varicose or arterio-venous aneurism, and aneurismal varix, exactly similar, in outward appearances and symptoms, to the disease first pointed out by William Hunter, and first delineated by Cleg- horn : it was likewise considered such by all the surgeons who saw it. It differed, how- ever, in this respect, that the communication did not exist between the median basilic vein, or superficial vein, and the artery, as all au- thors affirm, but between the brachial artery and one of its accompanying satellite or deep- seated veins, resembling those cases of varicose B b 2