308 ANKYLOSIS. active and passive motion, or, in other words, is ankylosed. The most familiar example of this form of disease is seen in the contraction of the fingers which follows upon paralysis of the extensor muscles. The paralysed muscles become small, shrunk, pale, and devoid of ir- ritability, while the flexor muscles, having now no longer any antagonist force, contract themselves until the points of the fingers are buried in the palm of the hand. Some years ago Sir Charles Bell told me that he had been recently consulted by a musician labouring under paralysis of the extensor muscles of the fingers, and had contrived to prevent ankylosis by causing the patient to wear on the back of each finger a piece of watch-spring of sufficient power to keep the finger straight when no effort was made to flex it, but not strong enough to resist the voluntary action of the flexors. The pieces of watch-spring were fastened at one extre- mity into a bracelet around the wrist, and at the other, into a light ring, worn on the last joint of the finger. This ingenious contriv- ance, Sir Charles assured me, was so success- ful that his patient was enabled to resume his occupation, and to play on the piano. Contractions of fascia are not uncommon causes of external ankylosis. These contrac- tions have been assigned to the power which aponeurotic fibres undoubtedly possess of adapting themselves to changes of form and volume, in the parts in which they occur; but it is indisputable that these contractions occur frequently where no such change in form or volume has been perceptible. Laceration of fascia, or long continued rest, may give rise to this contraction; and from the analogy of other structures, it may not be unfair to infer, in our ignorance of the morbid states of this and other tissues of low organization, that fascia is subject to inflammation which produces some rigidity and shortening. Dupuytren has made familiar the ankylosis of the fingers dependent on contraction of the palmar fascia, and re- cently professor Froriep of Berlin, (Preus- sische Medinische Zeitung, quoted in Brit, and For. Med. Rev. No. vi.) has pointed out, that ankylosis of the knee-joint sometimes de- pends on a similar cause, the contraction of the fascia lata, and of the prolongations which it sends off to the knee-joint. Dr. F. thinks that this contraction is most frequently pro- duced by a carious ulcer on the back of the foot, or upon the anterior aspect of the leg. He ascribes the rigidity of the fascia to long- continued rest, with the knee in a bent posi- tion ; but it is difficult to understand how such ulcers as those of which he speaks should occasion flexion of the knee, unless they ex- cited absorbent inflammation. The skin may give rise to external anky- losis. When extensive sloughing of this tissue has taken place from any cause, as a burn or bruise, the cicatrix which ensues undergoes a contraction which is unhappily very familiar to all. Every surgeon has seen the arm ren- dered almost useless by ankylosis of the elbow- joint consequent upon the contraction of a cicatrix. Exostoses, aneurisms, and tumours, situated in the neighbourhood of articulations, also produce external ankylosis by an action which is too mechanical and obvious to require ex- planation. We have thus briefly pointed out the chief proximate causes of the malady under conside- ration arranged, as closely as possible, under the head of tissue. It would be a task equally tedious and useless to recount the more re- mote causes. Whatsoever cause destroys the extensibility and easy play of the cellular membrane might be enumerated as a remote cause of ankylosis ; but it is manifest that to make such an enumeration here would be to overstep the proper boundaries of this article. B. Ankylosis dependent on lesion of tissues proper to the joint. This species may be termed, to contradis- tinguish it from the preceding, internal anky- losis. It comprehends instances of both false and true ankylosis ; but all the examples of the latter class are included under it. In a large proportion of cases it is not a malady which the surgeon can be called on to cure, but a result at which he is happy to arrive. The diseases which occasion it are less nume- rous than those which give rise to external ankylosis, but far more serious, and will be classified most advantageously under the seve- ral tissues belonging to the joint. The ligaments may, in several ways, destroy or impair the motions of joints. Inflamma- tion may be set up in ligamentous tissue by a sprain, a luxation, or a fracture bordering on the articulation, by gout and rheumatism. This inflammation gives rise, at first, to a swollen and softened state of the ligaments, produced by the deposition of lymph between the fibres ; subsequently the whole tissue be- comes rigid and indurated. When in this state, it has very much the character of car- tilage, or fibro-cartilage, and no longer per- mits the bones to move upon one another with ease and freedom. The dissection of a joint ankylosed by rheumatism illustrates this condition of ligament. Inflammation may be propagated to the ligaments from disease of other articular tissues, and the same process of rigidity and hardening will ensue, but in most of these cases, the iinpliability of the ligaments is not the only cause of ankylosis. Ossification of ligaments is assigned, by some w'riters, as a frequent cause of ankylosis, but it is certainly much rarer than is commonly supposed. It is true that the cotyloid liga- ment of the acetabulum is not unfrequently converted into bone, so as to form a rim round the margin of the articular cavity, but every anatomist is aware that this ligament is fibro- cartilaginous in structure. The most common transformation of true ligamentous tissue is into cartilage. Ossification is not often seen except in old men who have undergone much and great exertion : when it does take place,