CLUB-FOOT. 795 and student at the bar, was attacked in the winter of 1822-3 (an. aetat. 13) with symp- toms indicative of inflammation or irritation of the lower part of the spinal chord, which terminated, in the course of a few weeks, in paralysis of the bladder and right lower ex- tremity. After a confinement of six months, the limb partially recovered its muscular power, but has continued weak and shrunk in size to the present time. About a year and a half after the commencement of the disease, at which time he had recovered much of his former activity, he noticed that the toes of the left foot were becoming: slightly inverted, and that the heel appeared to be a little drawn up. This inversion of the toes and retraction of the heel increased gradually till the year 1827, when the deformity was so great, that counteracting measures could no longer be dispensed with. Callam’s instrument was first employed, and the patient was afterwards placed under the care of Mr. Chessher, of Hinkley. Scarcely any advance towards rec- tifying the deformity was made under the use of Mr. Chessher’s machine, nor did it much facilitate his power of progression. In fact the distortion, of which fig. 180 is a sketch. Fig. ICO. Fig. 100. Aggravated case of t. varus. has been slowly increasing in both directions up to the date of his application to me, and the irons have lately' been far more injurious than beneficial in their action. “ The case being less promising than any that had yet come under my notice, before I decided on operating, I requested my friend, Dr. Little, to examine the foot with me. He expressed himself in terms by no means san- guine as to the result of the operation, and counselled a very guarded prognosis, telling the patient that he must be satisfied with any degree of improvement that might follow. “ Adopting Dr. Little’s practice in varus at- tended by retraction of the heel, namely, attempting first to straighten the foot, and leaving the heel to be brought down after- wards, I proceeded to operate, with the for- mer intention, on the 23d of August. The muscles whose contraction occasioned the in- version of the toes, were the flexor longus pollicis, the adductor pollicis, and the tibialis anticus ’, the plantar fascia being also shorter than natural, and very tensely stretched at every attempt to straighten the foot. The tendons of the flexor longus and adductor pollicis were reached without difficulty by a short incision along the inner margin of the solo, a little anterior to the malleolus internus, and both were divided with the point of a straight bistoury. I then passed the bistoury between the skin of the sole and the plantar fascia, and turning its edge towards the latter, divided it as I withdrew the blade. Section of the tendon of the tibialis anticus was rea- dily accomplished by gliding the point of a curved bistoury beneath it. Having satisfied myself, by a very cautious extension, that no other obstruction to the return of the foot to its natural position remained, I applied a splint along its dorsal surface, and directed the limb to be kept in a state of perfect quiet. “ Aug. 25. Removing the splint, I everted the foot slightly, and gently moved the ankle and tarsal joints for a short time, and on the 26th commenced more powerful extension by means of a straight splint, employed by Dr. Little, to the inside of which, at its lower end, a strong spring is attached. (See fig. 179.) The upper part of the splint is confined to the outside of the leg by a bandage, and the foot being secured by a loop to a stud at the end of the spring, as great a degree of eversion as it can bear is kept up by the action of the spring, the loop being shortened daily as the toes yield. The pres- sure on the out- side of the foot occasioned some troublesome vesi- cation and super- ficial sloughing, which retarded our progress somewhat; but early in October I was able to take the cast, (fig. 180,) repre- senting the state of the foot six weeks after the first operation ; in short, reduced to a talipes equi- nus. Fig. 181. T. varus reduced by section of the adductor tendons to the state of pes equinus. 1 “ The tibialis anticus, which is a primary agent in producing valgus, has a secondary action also in some cases of varus. It is first extended considerably as the gastroenemii draw up the heel, and again con- tracts when the inversion of the foot has reached a certain point, aiding the adductors in increasing the distortion, and sometimes preventing the return of the foot to its natural position when the tendons of these latter are divided.” Fig. 181,