CATARACT. 718 but if operating upon the right, he recpiires to stand behind the patient, if he is not ambi- dexter. If the patient reclines, the surgeon sits or stands by his side when he operates upon the left eye ; and stands at the back of his head when operating upon the right, unless, as in the preceding case, he is to operate with his left hand, when he will stand on the right side of the patient. The patient must be cautious to keep his eye as steady as possible, but to do so without straining. All that is wanted is, to keep the eye at rest, and' avoid moving it ; if much effort is made by the patient to keep the eye steady he may make injurious pressure upon it with the muscles. He requires to be cau- tioned also against suddenly raising his hands when they are not held by assistants. Some operators have recommended, when performing an operation for cataract, that the other eye, if it has any vision, should be closed to exclude the light; while others are of opi- nion, that exercising the sight of the other eye in directing it to some particular object, or to the face of the operator, is the best mode of keeping the eye operated on steady. It is not of much consequence which of these is adopted. When the patient retains a con- siderable degree of vision in the eye which is not to be operated upon, it may either be tied up or left uncovered during the operation. There can be no harm in leaving the eye uncovered, and it is attended with this advan- tage, that it enables the patient to direct the eye to be operated upon to some fixed object, by which it is steadied and placed in a proper position at the commencement of the opera- tion. This might be accomplished were the other eye tied up, but in many cases not so well. The duty of the assistant is to hold the head of the patient steady, and prevent it from moving, as well as to hold one of the eyelids open, by pressing it with the points of one or two fingers of one hand to the margin of the orbit. In doing so, however, he should be careful to make no pressure upon the eye- ball with a view to steady it, as this must only be done by the operator himself The other hand of the assistant is to be employed in keeping the head of the patient steady. The operator himself is to keep the other eyelid of the patient open with the two first fingers of the hand not employed in operating. In doing this his fingers are also to be employed in keeping the eyeball steady, by a degree of pressure regulated according to circumstances. Various kinds of specula, hooks, &c. were formerly employed in keeping the eyelids open and fixing the eyeball: these have now been almost entirely laid aside ; the points of the fingers being found infinitely preferable. Some very dexterous operators, indeed, are even in the habit of performing operations for cata- ract without any assistant, by simply employ- ing the fingers of the hand not employed in operating, to keep the eyelids and eyeball in their proper position. The operations for the removal of cataract have undergone many changes, both as to the different modes of accomplishing them, and the instruments employed. They may now be considered to have attained a very high degree of perfection in these respects. No one of these operations can by any general rule be adopted for all cases ; for it will bo afterwards seen that each of them has its advantages and disadvantages in particular cases ; so that the operation requires to be selected and performed according to the na- ture of the case. The success of operations for cataract depends not more on the dexte- rity with which it is accomplished, than in preventing subsequent inflammation of the eye. It is, therefore, of great importance, before proceeding to perform an operation for cataract, to ascertain particularly the state of the patient’s general health, and his liability to inflamnlatory disease. It is impossible to form a comparative esti- mate of the success of the different operations for cataracts : — 1st. Because individual ope- rators may not perform each of the operations equally well. 2d. Each of the operations has its peculiar dangers, which may unfortunately happen more frequently in the hands of one than another, even although equally dex- terous. 3d. Because cataracts vary so much in their nature in different cases. 4th. Be- cause of the different circumstances of pa- tients as to age, sex, constitution, habits, general health, &c. 5th. Because one ope- ration is the most suitable for some cases, while it would be improper in others. 6th. Because of the complications and unfavoura- ble concomitant circumstances which occur in almost every case, but presenting themselves in almost endless variety and modifications, without forbidding the performance of an ope- ration l. The proper treatment of cataract, therefore, will depend on the proper selection of the operation most suited to the particular case, its successful accomplishment, and the pre- vention of inflammation. $ 13. First Operation for the Removal of Cataract, Displacement, Depression, Couching, and Reclination. The depression or couching of the cataract by displacing it from its natural situation into the lower part of the vitreous humour where it is removed from the axis of vision, is the first operation which was performed for this disease. The description of Celsus is the first which we have of the operation of couching the cataract, and his directions are nearly as per- fect as those which can be given, even with the addition of the subsequent experience since his time. The Hindoo native Indians 1 Estimating the success of different operations by the comparative success of those operators who have published their experience is very fallacious, as many of the greatest operators have never published the result of their practice. 5