ANEURISM. 207 Fig. 55. Fig. 55 exhibits an aneurism of the aorta which has undergone a spontaneous cure by the first mentioned process; the sac is completely filled with lamince of concreted fibrine, so that there was no longer any dan- ger of a rupture of its parietes. There is a small cavity in the interior of the concretion which commu- nicates with the aorta, and through this cavity, the blood passed into the arteria innominata, the origin of which is observed at the inferior part of the cavity. ( Hodgson.) Fig. 56. The whole circumference of the vessel has be- come aneurismal, and a spontaneous cure has been effected by the second process which was described. The sac being filled with a laminated fibrinous concre- tion and a canal left in the centre of the concretion, through which the blood had continued to circulate. The canal is seen of an irregular form, and in some places larger than the calibre of the healthy portion of the artery. Fig. 57, is a diagram explaining how an aneurism may undergo a spontaneous cure by the tumor (a) acquiring such a form and position that by its pressure on the trunk of the artery (b, b), either on the cardiac or ca- pillary side of the tumour, the sides of the artery are made to approximate. Fig. 58. Fig. 58. The upper portion of the femoral artery, in which the aneurismal swelling had become the seat of suppura- tion and sloughing. In this patient there was a large aneurismal tumour of the fe- moral artery, just where that vessel penetrates the triceps muscle. The integuments ul- timately gave way from the enormous growth of the tumour; large masses of coagulated blood were afterwards dis- charged through the ulcerated openings of the skin, and an immense suppurating cavity was thus formed, the profuse discharge from which proved fatal. On dissection, it ap- peared that ujnvards of six inches of the femoral artery had sloughed of, and na- ture had plugged up both extremities of the vessel, by producing a contraction and thickening of the coats, and also the formation of an internal clot, a, is the upper portion of the femoral artery, which at b b, is considerably diminished, and from thence the canal becomes gradually narrower, until at c c, where it is greatly contracted, and terminates in disorganized cel- lular membrane. The internal clot d, is observed im- mediately above this ulcerated orifice, and floats loose in the tube of the artery. The aneurismal Sac has usually a form more or less globular, and sometimes emerges from the arterial trunk by a neck so slender as to give a pyriform or flask-like appearance to the swelling, (fig. 59). Fig. 59. Fig. 59 represents an aneurism with a very narrow neck rising out from the arch of the aorta. The tumour (a) of a Florence flask shape emerges from the aorta between the roots of the left carotid (c), and left sub- clavian (5). On examining the coats of an aneurismal artery we find that they have become altered in their structure. The cellular coat is usu- ally thickened, and adheres more or less to the surrounding cellular texture. The proper fi- brous coat is paler and less elastic, and the in- ternal coat is more brittle and even more easily torn than in the natural state. Calcareous or chalky-looking matter is frequently deposited between the coats, and osseous scales are sometimes observed covered by the inner tunic; or that coat is destroyed, and the bony matter is in direct contact with the circulating blood. All these changes in the structure of an artery occur, however, independently of any aneurismal swelling, and usually exist prior to the formation of an aneurism. It is, in fact, the diseased state of the coats of the artery which makes them liable to-give way, and become aneurismal. The opening, by wrhich the sac communi- cates with the artery, is generally of an irre- gular form, and varies in size; being sometimes very small, sometimes so large as nearly to divide the artery, and sometimes this opening is so large that no distinction can be observed between the parietes of the tumour and those of the artery, the internal membrane of the sac appearing to be continuous with that of the vessel.