20J ANEURISM. Wounds of the carotid are not necessarily fatal. Some instances are on record in which the blood having but a small external vent became diffused, thus giving rise to a trau- matic aneurism. Cases, too, have occurred in which wounds of the carotid have been suc- cessfully treated by compression alone. Acrel, Van-Horne, and Larrey, make mention of three such instances. The sources of supply are so abundant, after the ligature of the carotid, that there is not the slightest danger to the parts either within or without the cranium, from which the main stream has been diverted; and no one now entertains the slightest fear for the intel- lectual or other functions of the brain. In- deed, the branches of the opposite and cor- responding vessels anastomosing with those of the obliterated trunk, replenish them so very rapidly, that in some instances the pulsations have reappeared in the tumour, after a brief suspension, and thus rendering it necessary to have recourse to compression to make the cure certain. This phenomenon so often observed furnishes indisputable proof of the correctness of Mr. Wardrop’s position, that a languid state of the circulation is sufficient to lead to the gradual obliteration of an aneuris- mal sac. Irregularities in the distribution of the ca- rotid artery usually arise from some variation of the point at which it bifurcates ; the divi- sion into the two secondary branches may take place as low down as the sixth cervical vertebra, or as high up as the styloid process ; or again, there may be no bifurcation, in which case the primary carotid, after giving oft’ all the branches usually furnished by the exter- nal, is continued as the internal carotid.1 The irregularities of the secondary branches follow in the same order ; but some occur in- dependently of any anomaly of the primary trunk. Thus the superior thyroid may arise from the external carotid, a little above the bifurcation, or it may arise either from the external, or from the common carotid by a common trunk with the lingual artery. Some- times it is wanting altogether. The lingual and the facial may also arise by a common trunk from the carotid. The latter is pecu- liarly liable to variation, insomuch that it is seldom distributed in the same manner at each side, in the same person. INFERIOR THYROID, SUPERIOR THYROID, FACIAL, AND LINGUAL ARTERIES. The inferior and superior thyroids, the former a branch of the subclavian, the latter a branch of the common carotid, have been tied in cases of degenerescence or hypertrophy of the thyroid gland. Ligature of the Inferior Thyroid and Verte- bral Arteries.—The inferior thyroid arising from the subclavian, or from a root common to it, and the ascending cervical, runs up- 1 Dr. Green, on the Varieties in the Arterial System. wards and inwards behind the internal jugular vein and carotid, and the pneumogastric nerve, and just before the vertebral artery, and longus colli muscle, until it gets behind the lobe of the thyroid body; it is crossed and covered by the omo-hyoid muscle. It may be cut down upon in the same manner as the carotid, and sought for under this muscle between the carotid and the trachea, or the oesophagus and trachea, if it be on the left side. Care must be taken not to injure the descendens noni, or the recurrent nerve. Sedillot’s plan of tying the carotid by cutting down between the sternal and clavicular portions of the mas- toid muscle might also be adopted either for tying the inferior thyroid, or even the ver- tebral artery itself. Fig. 85. Fig. 85 contains the temporal, facial, lingual, and sub- clavian arteries. No. 1. The skin and temporal fascia having been di- vided, the temporal artery (a) is seen with its satel- lite vein ; b b, the ligature passed under the artery. No. 2. The skin and fascia covering the edge of the lower jaw are divided ; the facial artery (a) ivith its satellite vein is seen ascending towards the angle of the mouth; a ligature (bb) is passed under the artery. No. 3. The skin and platysma myoides are divided by a transverse incision. Beneath the hypoglossus muscle, which is also divided, are seen, a, the lingual artery, b, the vein, and d, the hypoglossal nerve ; c, is a por- tion of the sublingual gland presenting itself in the upper edge of the wound; e e, the ligature passed under the artery. No. 4. a, the subclavian artery ; b, the vein to its inside ; c c c, the nerves descending to form the brachial plexus; d d, the ligature passed beneath the artery ; the nerves and artery are crossed by venous branches (e) which are descending to empty themselves into the subclavian vein. The subclavian vein and artery are separated by the scalenus muscle.