AMPUTATION. 142 His incisions were made with such velocity, that the eye could scarcely follow them ; and to superficial observers, to those who were mere spectators, his amputations appeared splendid. The dexterity of the operator ex- cited their admiration. But in myself, who assisted Dupuytren in these operations, the admiration was mingled with regret. I had to watch and dress the patients, and I could not shut my eyes to the evil results. The stumps were often conical in the wrong sense; sometimes even the bone was salient and after- wards exfoliated. Those who witnessed the operation only, went away with the notion that Dupuytren’s amputations were equal to his other operations, almost all of which were ex- cellent. This was unfortunate ; for had it been otherwise, the general opinion of the profession would have been against his plan, and he might have been induced to alter it. His great fault lay in not devoting his first incision entirely to the division and preservation of the integuments. This he either did not see, or thought he could counteract by preserving an additional quantity of muscle ; for he was aware that his stumps were often faulty ; and I have frequently seen him make more than three sections of the muscles, and also dissect up round the bone, whispering as he pro- ceeded, “ Surely I shall preserve soft parts enough here!” as if determined to secure a good stump. He had placed the originality of his plan of amputating, as a modern one, in cutting at once to the bone, as directed by Celsus. He was careful, as I have stated, to adopt the precept of this author to dissect off and preserve the fibres immediately attached to it. So far his operation was exactly that of Celsus. He really differed from him only in dividing the deep muscles over and over again, as long as any of their fibres remained projecting. I never could discover any valid reason why he ad- hered to so bad a plan of performing amputa- tion. He was, undoubtedly, so much accus- tomed to perform operations upon plans of his own superior to those of his contemporaries, that to operate as they did was to depart from a long-contracted habit ; but it is much to be regretted that he did not imitate them in adopting the modern plan of amputating, which justice obliges us to confess is im- measurably superior to his. From the foregoing examination, we think no surgeon can hesitate in giving the prefer- ence to the modern plan of performing the circular amputation, and a reference to the changes which the parts forming the stump or the remaining part of the limb undergo after amputation must strengthen his conviction of its superiority. It must be evident to every physiologist, that it is the only one which prevents the bone ever being prominent, and ensures the division of the parts, so that the surface of the stump shall represent a hollow cone. The more amputations we see, the more shall we be impressed with this truth. And it is one of so much importance, that we hope our friend M. Velpeau will see reason to reconsider his assertion, that the same result may be obtained by whatever method the circular amputation is performed. It may, perchance, be obtained in some few instances where the limb is small and circum- stances are favourable ; but whoever would guard against the serious and often irremedi- able mischief of a sugar-loaf stump, must adhere strictly and carefully to the modern plan. To preserve skin enough to cover fairly the whole surface of the stump without any stretching of this membrane ; to divide the muscles layer by layer, so that after re- tracting, those nearest the skin are left the longest, and those next the bone the shortest, and that there is, as far as possible, a regular slope from the former to the latter; to divide the bone so that no portion in the stump be left uncovered by muscular fibre ; such are the great objects to be aimed at in the circu- lar amputation, and which, we repeat, can be accomplished only by the modern plan of operating. The surgeon, therefore, cannot be too careful in determining at what point the bone ought to be divided before he begins his in- cision. The method of amputating by Flap consists in the formation of one or more flaps, out of the soft parts, with a view to the immediate covering of the stump, and the more speedy cicatrization of the wound. Although Spren- gel and Gagnier seem to refer the origin of this method to Celsus; and Velpeau considers that it is described with tolerable clearness by Leonides and Heliodorus, it is nevertheless certain, that a plain and satisfactory descrip- tion of it was first given by an English writer, J. Yonge, at the end of a dissertation, en- titled, “ Curras Triumphalis e Terebintho,” which he published in 1679. Yonge states that this method of amputating originated with N. Lowdham, a surgeon at Oxford, and to him, unquestionably, the honour of this im- provement belongs; but it is only proper to ob- serve, that such a proposal must have naturally suggested itself as soon as surgeons began to be aware that the scaling and exfoliation of bone did not of necessity form a preliminary step to- wards the healing process. Amputation by flap encountered some opposition from Kce- nerding, and was only resorted to, at first, in cases of amputation below the knee, and in general only a single flap was formed. Em- boldened by success, the surgeons in the fol- lowing century extended it to the amputation of the fore-arm, and subsequently to that of the arm, and even of the thigh. In 1696, Verduyn of Amsterdam proposed a modification of it, to which he ascribed ad- vantages, now known to be illusory; he ima- gined that the compression of the vessels of the flap against the extremity of the bone would suffice to prevent haemorrhage. Sabourin, of Geneva, in 1702, addressed a memoir on the subject to the French Aca- demy, without, however, producing any other