143 AMPUTATION. than a mere momentary impression in its favour. When its application was extended to the amputation of the thigh by Ravaton and Ver- male, the simplicity of the manner in which it used to be performed was effectually destroyed by the former. He described his plan to the French Academy in 1739; his first incision, which he made with a crooked knife, was circular, and went to the bone ; he then made two other incisions, perpendicular to the first, one at the fore part, the other at the back part of the limb, avoiding the principal vessels, until the flaps were detached from the bone, to the extent of four fingers’ breadth above the first circular incision. In the flap method the operator forms one or two flaps, seldom more ; the incisions being directed from without, inwards, or from with- in, outwards. In the former, which is Lan- genbeck’s mode, the knife proceeds ascending the limb obliquely, from the skin to the bone: in the latter, which is Vermale’s, the knife is passed through the thick of the limb, grazing the bone, at the point where it is to be sawed, until its point appears through the skin, at the opposite side; it is then carried in an oblique direction, cutting downwards and out- wards, from the root of the flap to its free margin. The performance of the operation by this mode may be rendered very brilliant and rapid, and is, therefore, in general pre- ferred, but it is not so even and regular as the former. The knife employed should be long, thin, and finely pointed,—it may be double or single edged ; in certain cases, however, the double edge is indispensable. The flap or flaps should be so formed that the large vessels shall correspond to their thickest part, being thus of course remote from the angle of junction of the incisions, and, in general, the flap in which the principal vessel is included, should be formed last; this rule, however, admits of some exceptions, which shall be no- ticed at the proper place. When a flap am- putation is performed in the contiguity, the member is disarticulated before the second flap is formed. When this mode of operating is resorted to, in the continuity of the limb, the bone is sawed in the usual way. On the first introduction of the method of operating by flap, its partisans assumed for it a superiority over the circular mode? on the ground of its being less painful, of more prompt execution, preventing exfoliation of the extremity of the bone, exposing but rarely to haemorrhage, requiring no ligature of ves- sels, effecting a cure more speedily, and form- ing a better stump. Time, however, has shown how much these pretensions were exaggerated. Most surgeons now agree, that the stump is less likely to be conical than when the circu- lar method is adopted ; that the flap amputa- tion is more rapid of execution, and covers the bone better ; that the flaps may be more easily and accurately adjusted, especially in deep and extensive wounds ; and probably that their reunion is more speedy and certain. 12 The advantages of this method, as regards the rapidity of reunion, would doubtless have entitled it to a larger share of favour, had not the progressive improvement of the circular method rendered union by first intention, in the cases in which it is employed, almost equally certain. It is better to form two flaps than one, when both can be made of equal thickness and width, as in that case the bleed- ing surfaces are brought together with the most perfect ease. When a single flap only is formed, it must be often extremely long, and when not sufficiently so, it becomes ne- cessary to stretch it over the sawed extremity of the bone. This was Verduyn’s method, and its inconveniences are so obvious that it is but seldom preferred. Unfortunately, how- ever, it is sometimes the only method that can be resorted to, as, for example, on the field of battle, when one side of a limb is either carried away, or disorganized by a can- non-shot ; in other cases also, its adoption is often less an affair of choice than of necessity. The motives for preferring it in certain cases will be discussed under the particular ampu- tations. One of the great advantages of this method, when first introduced, was the effect it had in familiarizing the minds of surgeons to the healing of the wound by first intention. But even on this point, it would appear, that their opinions were far from being firmly esta- blished, for we find, in 1765, Sylvester O’Hal- loran, of Limerick, proposing to renounce this important advantage, and recommending that the flap should not be applied over the bone, until such time as it should be covered with granulations. The oblique, or oval method, consists in such a division of the soft parts, as will represent a V; each flap will thus have the form of the mouth-piece of a lute. It is simply a modifi- cation of the flap amputation, adapted to par- ticular cases. Langenbeck first employed it in the amputation of the metacarpal and me- tatarsal bones ; it was subsequently employed by Mr. Guthrie, in that of the shoulder-joint, and it has since been strongly recommended by Scoutettin, in other situations. The V may be formed by two incisions, which shall divide at once the integuments and muscles down to the bone, the angle of union of these incisions being upwards, or in the direction of the trunk. In some cases, the skin alone is divided in the first cuts ; it is then retracted, and the muscles are divided down to the bone. The division of the skin and muscles by separate cuts, is considered preferable, wherever the soft parts are volu- minous. The cases in which the oval method may deserve a preference will be pointed out in the particular amputations. Measures necessary to arrest the bleeding after amputation.—These require as much at- tention, and perhaps more skill, than the cut- ting part of the operation. Dionis remarks, “ le plus difficile n’est pas d’abattre une