AMPUTATION. 150 ing from the capillaries may depend on the tightness with which the roller is applied ; and, should such be the case, it should be slackened. If the quantity effused be not sufficient to produce a feeling of distress from tension, it will be best not to disturb the dressings, further than to slacken the roller, remove the compresses, and expose the stump to the action of the cold ; for this purpose the compresses may be kept wet, or ice may be applied in bladders. The haemorrhage may arise also imme- diately after the operation, from the ligature slipping off the vessel. In this case, the tour- niquet, if it be left on the limb, should be im- mediately tightened, or the vessel may be con- trolled with the fingers; the dressings should then be removed, and the vessel secured ef- fectually by placing the ligature in a proper manner ; ft' the coats of the vessel have given way, it should be drawn out, and tied with a round or thick thread, which will make sufficient pressure, without cutting the vessel across. Removal of the first dressings.-—If there be nothing in the stump to call for particular attention on the part of the surgeon, the first dressings should be allowed to remain undis- turbed till the fifth or sixth day. Any con- siderable accumulation, however, of blood in the cavity of the stump, by acquiring irrita- ting qualities, or tightening the adhesive straps to a painful degree, will require a much earlier disturbance of the dressings. Their renewal is in general much dreaded by the patient; but, if the surgeon proceed methodically, and with due care, he will not give any pain worth speaking of, nor will he disturb the adhesions already formed between the edges of the wound. The blood and serum which has glued all the dressings, being now dry and hard, should be softened with soft sponge dipped in warm water, or the water may be made to fall in a gentle stream upon them, until they become thoroughly softened, when they will separate easily. The roller and compresses are removed first, and then the adhesive straps in succession. If the stump be large, each strap should be removed, and replaced by another before the next strap is disturbed ; by this means, only one point of the wound is deprived of support at a time. Before the application of the fresh strap, the exposed part of the stump is gently spunged and wiped dry. In detaching the ends of the straps, they should be raised, first, on one side, till the skin is uncovered nearly down to the edge of the wound, and then on the other side, ap- proaching the wound in the same manner; both ends are then laid hold of, and gently raised perpendicularly from the surface of the stump. It is not uncommon for some of the small ligatures, to come away with gentle traction on the fifth or sixth day ; the larger ones may be removed on the tenth or twelfth. If they should remain after the fifteenth day, gentle tractions should be made on them at each time of renewing the dressings. Secondary accidents after amputation.— At the period when the ligatures come away, and even long after, haemorrhage may take place. The healing of wounds from amputation by immediate union has tended more than any thing else to diminish the frequency of this accident. In this mode, the divided vessels are not exposed, nor irritated by any thing, beyond the ligature itself: they are covered by, and in contact with parts living like them- selves, and with which they soon become in- timately united. One of the great causes of the inflammation of the stump and its vessels is thus guarded against, and the ulceration, through means of which the ligature is freed from the vessel on which it had been applied, is in almost the universality of cases limited to that point alone. It does, however, happen, in some rare cases, that inflammation and suppuration tak- ing place in the coats of the arteries of the stump, the coagulum, instead of becoming organized and obturating the vessel, is ex pelled, and haemorrhage occurs, at a period when the stump is all but completely healed, the blood flowing from the fistulous tracks of the ligatures. Secondary haemorrhage may also occur, when the stump having been attacked with inflammation, the soft parts become sloughy. Under these circumstances, the obliteration of the vessels does not take place, and the blood may burst out from one or more of these vessels at the same time, or in succes- sion. This is observed to occur in cases where amputation has been performed for mortification of a limb arising from internal causes, or when the vessels had been in a dis- eased condition prior to the operation. The period at which consecutive haemor- rhage may occur, will vary according to cir- cumstances, from the end of the first to that of the fourth week, and is, generally speaking, a very serious and often unmanageable acci- dent. When the artery has been re-opened by the progress of sloughing or ulceration, it will, perhaps, be hopeless to attempt securing it again in the same place where these morbid processes are in activity. Sanson, however, was successful in a case, where he secured the mouth of the bleeding vessel, including in his ligature a portion of the soft parts which he dissected for some way upwards. It has been recommended to make com- pression on the course of the arterial trunk, by means of a pad. J. L. Petit was success- ful with an instrument called a garrot, which he invented for a case of this kind, and by which a pad might be pressed on the course of the artery or a piece of sponge or agaric might be maintained against the bleeding mouths of the vessels themselves. This mode of using compression, particularly in thigh stumps, has been favourably spoken of by White and Hey, but they prefer compression by the hands of assistants who would take the duty in turns ; the pressure to be kept up