326 ANKYLOSIS. with the safety of the posterior tibial vessels, &c., one side of the knife being directed to- wards the latter. The cutting edge was then directed outwards, against the tendon, the point being made to describe a quarter or third of a circle, of which the centre was that part of the blade in contact with the external punctures. By this cutting outwards, and circular motion of the point of the knife, nearly all fibro-cartilaginous adhesions, (for they were felt by me to be gristly whilst cut- ting them,) between the edge of the knife and the skin, as well as the tendo Achillis, were divided, as in the method I usually adopt for cutting the latter only, without any puncture being made in the opposite side of the leg. After the withdrawal of the knife two small remaining portions of fascia, or bands of ad- hesion, were felt through the integuments to be still unsevered ; they were cut by reintro- ducing the bistoury. There was but one wound, a quarter of an inch in length, which healed the second day by first intention. On the sixth day Stromeyer’s foot-board, with an air-cushion beneath the sole of the foot, was applied, without attempting much extension of the remaining resisting tissues of the back of the leg, viz. the tibialis posticus, flexor muscles, and the ligaments of the joint, as I judged it prudent to proceed more gra- dually than after an ordinary section of the tendo Achillis, and allow the lymph effused in the track of the knife, through the tendon and through the old cicatrices, to become more fully organised, that there might be no chance of exciting any degeneration of the reparatory process, or inflammation, notwith- standing the part w'as completely healed. After a few days, the cord of the appara- tus was slowly tightened. The patient com- plained of having restless nights, took a few doses of tinct. opii unavailingly ; did not re- fer the pain she endured from the apparatus to the situation of the lig. deltoideum and fibulare posticum, (to the former of which, in particular cases, after the operation for club- foot, patients point as the part where they feel that stretching is going on,) but com- plained chiefly of an acute pain at the back of the fibula, two inches above the malleole. At the eighth day of carrying on the extension, I found, to my disappointment, that the foot was nearly in the same position as before the operation, the heel having descended only a very little; I was certain, therefore, that some unusual impediment to the bending of the ankle existed ; and as there was a cicatrix adherent to the bone, and a little inflamed, as if it had been on the stretch, and at the place where she complained of pain and stretching, close to the situation of the ten- dons of the peronei muscles, I suspected that the latter might be interested in the cicatrix, and adherent to the fibula, although before the operation I believed them to be free ; I resolved, therefore, that if a subsequent exa- mination confirmed me in my suspicion, I would divide those tendons lower down than the cicatrix. The bandages and apparatus w'ere removed altogether ; the spirit lotion prescribed to be applied constantly to the ankle, and a dose of laxative medicine to be taken, to accelerate the removal of oedema of the parts which obstructed an accurate exa- mination. On the eighteenth day after the division of the tendo Achillis, when all swelling had sub- sided, I was able to satisfy myself of the state of things. There was no adhesion of the peronei tendons at the cicatrix, for when the ankle-joint was moved as far as the deformity admitted, I could feel that they were ren- dered alternately tense and lax, both below and above the cicatrix. The latter was still slightly red and puffy ; when I attempted to press the toes upwards she had pain there, ranging from the cicatrix to the posterior ex- tremity of the os calcis, and by careful mani- pulation I discovered what 1 supposed to be a firm band, passing from the os calcis, or from the inferior portion of the divided tendo Achillis to this lowest cicatrix of the fibula. Pressure in the direction of this band gave pain, as did also, upon repeated trials, the forcing upwards of the toes. I determined consequently, to divide it between the cicatrix and its connection with the lower part of the tendon, w'hich was done after the manner of dividing a tendo Achillis, except that I introduced the knife upon the outside of the limb. The wound where the knife entered healed the second day, but a minute {juncture made by the curved point of the knife, in the posterior median line, was more slow to cicatrize. Stromeyer’s foot- board was now immediately re-applied, and the same degree of extension which produced before much pain and uneasiness, was borne after this second operation, with comparative ease, so that she was able to walk about; the heel gradually descended, and on October 9th, fourteen days after the second operation, she was able to put the heel and entire sole to the ground, which she had not done for twen- ty years. A lighter modification of the appa- ratus was worn three weeks longer, to sup- port the joint whilst walking about, and also (although the foot had now acquired, in the eye of a cursory observer, a perfectly natural form,) to endeavour, if possible, to bend the ankle beyond a right angle with the leg, and obtain the full extent of natural motion. The wearing of this latter instrument occasioned not the slightest uneasiness ; it was rather a source of ease to her, for when the foot was allowed to hang loose, owing to the anterior muscles of the leg having been so many years elongated, and therefore unable to hold the foot in the bent state, she, as all patients for a short time after the operation do, felt pain from motion of the recently disturbed parts about the joint, ligaments, &c. Nov. 5.—All apparatus laid aside, and pa- tient is now walking about with a common shoe on ; her gait is like that of a person just recovered from a sprained ankle, or broken