317 ANKYLOSIS. tone in the system, &c., these agents could he resorted to with promising results.” His colleagues having given their consent to the operation, it was performed on the 22nd of November, 1826, in the following manner. “ The integuments and fascia being divided and raised, the muscles in contact with the bone, around part of the great trochanter, were carefully detached, and a passage thereby made just large enough to admit of the insi- nuation of my fore-fingers before and behind the bone, the tips of which now met around the lower part of the cervix of the femur, a little above its root. The saw was readily applied, and, without any difficulty, a separa- tion of the bone was effected. The thigh was now released, and I immediately turned out the knee, extended the leg, and placed the limbs side by side, by a comparison of which, in reference to length, the unsound member betrayed a shortening of about half an inch. This might have been caused partly by a distortion of the pelvis. Not one blood- vessel required to be secured. Union by the first intention was not attempted ; the lips of the wound were only supported by adhesive plaster and slight dressings. The patient was put to bed, and Dessault’s splints were applied to support the limb. “ The operation, though severe, was not of long duration, it being accomplished in the space of about seven minutes. “ In the evening, the patient suffered great pain and was much prostrated; his pulse feeble, stomach irritable, with great restless- ness.” From this state of collapse he rallied, and on the twentieth day after the operation pas- sive motion was cautiously commenced. At first it was only employed at intervals of several days, but as it seemed to produce little disturbance was soon used more fre- quently. “ Sixty days after the operation, the patient (who had previously exerted his muscles in slightly Hexing, extending, and rotating his thigh), guided by careful assistants, left his bed, and, aided by crutches, stood erect, both feet reaching the floor : he thinks he bore ten or twelve pounds’ weight on the weakened limb for a few minutes ; made an attempt to advance the leg, and did so exclusively, by muscular exertion, then rested on the sound side and rotated the knee, and, as he says, without pain.” On the 31st of January he walked a dis- tance of 150 feet, with the assistance of crutches, and on examining him, “ we found him able to perform flexion and extension, abduction and adduction, rotation inwards and outwards, and able to cross the opposite foot: he had then, in fact, regained every move- ment which the limb originally possessed.” In the following month, February, the patient had an attack of erysipelas, on recovery from which he began again to take regular exer- <‘ise, and to gain strength. On March 1st, it is said, “ He rises in the morning and retires not until night ; in the mean time amusing himself by exercise in walking, which he now begins to accomplish by the aid merely of a cane : time only seems to be required to enable him to walk without even this assist- ance. The following is the degree to which he can perform the movements of his limb with perfect ease : by measurement from a straight line, he can advance his foot twenty- four inches ; in stepping backward, twenty- six inches ; in abduction, twenty inches ; in rotation inward, six inches, and outward, six inches Upon examining for the space that usually exists between the projec- tion of the great trochanter and the posterior margin of the acetabulum, it will be discovered that it has been filled up by an accumulation of osseous matter, apparently deposited there to prevent displacement of the bones and to form something like a socket. “ The outward contour of the hip re- sembles that of the sound side, except in the disfigurement occasioned by the extensive crucial incisions. “ When the legs are extended, a slight shortening of the right limb is perceivable, but not sufficient to cause him to limp in walking. The thickness of the blade of the saw taken from the length of the femur, and the subsequent change of the divided surfaces, might have caused this retraction of the limb. When the knees are drawn up, there is an in- creased shortening, which again disappears as they are extended. By placing the hand over the upper part of the trochanter, and moving the limb, that portion of the bone will be found perfectly at rest; but when the hand is lowered to the part where the joint has been formed, the articulation is satisfac- torily felt. The sensation conveyed to the hand is not like that occasioned by two bare surfaces of bone rubbed against each other, but like that imparted by the motions in a natural and healthy joint.” (Vide North Ame- rican Surgical Journal, 1827, or the Lancet of September 1st, 1827.) This extract is long but full of interest. I am not aw'are that any similar case is on re- cord, but I have heard that the same opera- tion has been repeated in America, but with a fatal result. It will be observed that Dr. Barton proceeded on the belief that he could establish a false joint by keeping up motion between the divided ends of a bone. The experiments of Chaussier, Koeler, and Sir Astley Cooper, on animals ; the observation on ununited fractures made by Larrey dur- ing the campaign of Egypt, and the history of cases of excision of diseased joints, warranted this belief. The false joint is sometimes en- dowed writh structures resembling a cartilage and synovial membrane, but more commonly it is formed by the interposition of ligamen- tous fibres between the ends of bone, and the motion of the new joint depends on the flexi- bility of this connecting medium. After ex- cision of a joint the bones are united in this