830 CONGELATION. then transferred to a mixture of snow and muriate of lime, which, before being mixed, had been cooled by means of another frigorific mixture in which the thermometer indicated a cold of — 10° F. When the cylinder had been kept in the cold a sufficient time, a towel was wrapped round one end of it, and the other applied to the diseased hip, immediately behind the great trochanter. On removing it, after it had been applied some minutes, the skin presented a very extraordinary aspect. It had lost all trace of redness, and had very much the colour of white wax, and as it bore a circular impress, it seemed as if the iron had been employed to stamp its figure upon the substance just mentioned. The white part was intensely cold, hard, and rigid, so that no doubt remained on the minds of those who examined it, that the superficial tissues were actually congealed. These appearances speed- ily passed away, and the part became affected with inflammation, and more painful than dur- ing the application of the iron. The inflam- mation excited was only slight, but next day the pain of the joint was nearly gone, and in eight days the lad was dismissed cured, no other application than a blister having been employed. Several of the gentlemen who witnessed the experiment afterwards applied the iron to their hands. No pain was at first excited, but a burning sensation came on gra- dually, and in a very short time became so severe that the hand was suddenly withdrawn. It is clear from the preceding account that the iron had not been cooled low enough to cause immediate vesication, and that the effect produced was due to the iron being kept sometime applied, and thus gradually abstract- ing the heat and causing congelation. In em- ploying cold, therefore, as a therapeutic agent, it may be applied either in a state of great intensity, when it will cause immediate vesica- tion, or in a less intense state, when it must be kept longer applied, and will cause conge- lation of the tissues in the neighbourhood, and to form an eschar the cold must be fol- lowed up without a moment’s delay by a warm poultice. We have still to advert to the more slight affections, commonly known by the name of chilblains. These are characterized by symp- toms perfectly analogous to those described above, as accompanying the stage of re-action, but of a less severe kind. The sudden and frequent transition from the extremes of heat and cold is the principal cause of chilblains, and the hands and feet are the usual seat in which they occur. Washerwomen and other persons following employments in which sud- den alternations of heat and cold are unavoid- able, are peculiarly liable to chilblains, and some individuals appear subject to them from a constitutional susceptibility of the skin to the influence of temperature. The affected parts are swollen, and have a livid red or pur- ple colour, with a sense of itching heat and tingling, and occasionally shooting pains. The inflammation is of the chronic kind, often lasting many weeks, and sometimes a succes- sion of chilblains occurs in different situations during the whole cold season. The cuticle often exfoliates, and in more severe cases the inflamed surface becomes chapped, and the chaps degenerate into indolent ulcers with an ichorous discharge, and little tendency to granulate or cicatrize. In the most severe cases of all, sloughing takes place, and the de- tachment of the sloughs is followed by ulcers of a similar character. III. MODE OF ACTION OF COLD. To explain fully the influence which cold exerts over the human body, it would require to be considered under two points of view. It ought, in the first place, to be considered as one of the physical influences which give to the climate of cold countries its peculiar cha- racter, and which, by being in habitual opera- tion upon the inhabitants of those countries during successive generations, stamps a pecu- liar modification both upon their physical de- velopment, and upon their moral and intellec- tual condition. In this point of view, the action of cold has engaged much attention, and is alike interesting to the philosopher and to the physiologist. In the second point of view, the action of cold is interesting only to the physiologist, the subject of investigation being the immediate effects which a low tem- perature produces upon the whole body and upon any part of the body exposed to its in- fluence. It is under this latter point of view that we propose here very briefly to consider the mode of action of cold, avoiding all vague speculations as foreign to the object of a prac- tical work, and having for our sole object to refer the numerous phenomena described above as arising from cold to a few general principles which may render them more easily understood. Cold has been regarded by some writers as a stimulant, and by others as a sedative. To us it appears that the whole effects of cold cannot be referred to a single mode of action, and we shall endeavour to show that cold acts differently, according to the mode in which it is applied ; that when applied suddenly, so as to cause a very rapid subduction of heat, it acts as a stimulant or irritant, and that when it is gradually applied, so as to cause a slow subduction of heat, it acts as a sedative. The most powerful means which we possess of causing a rapid subduction of heat from any part of the body, is by the application to it of a very cold metallic substance. We have de- scribed above minutely the effects produced upon the sensation and vascular action of the part to which this application is made, and the conclusion which must be drawn, is that the sudden action of intense cold is immediately and unequivocally irritant. The irritation excited by cold diminishes as the cold is less intense. It also diminishes according as it is applied through a medium, of which the power of conducting heat is less perfect. Thus a