657 CANCER. in three is cured ; Mr. Travers that perma- nent recovery “generally ” ensues when the disease is removed before the supervention of pain : to the extreme and opposing opinions of Hill and Boyer we have already sufficiently referred. Among 98 amputations of the mamma performed by Benedict, two termi- nated fatally before the wound had closed ; in 83 cases the disease returned after cicatri- zation, and proved fatal “ more rapidly than if no operation had been done in 13 no relapse was heard of, but Benedict was morally persuaded that some of these cases were not truly scirrhous1. The hopes of perfect and lasting restoration after the ab- lation of encephaloid are faint indeed ; yet even here we need not wholly despair of success ; M. Velpeau has excised well-marked specimens of this species, and seen the pa- tients in perfect health two, four, six, and in one case ten years afterwards. When encephaloid grows from the walls of a simple or multilocular cyst containing serous fluid, the operation of puncturing the cyst and drawing off its contents accelerates the growth of the superadded cancer. The removal of pressure, as elsewhere explained, sufficiently accounts for the effect of such operation. Dupuytren in cases of this kind enucleated the cancerous masses, and stuffed the cyst with shredded lint to promote cohesion of its walls. The manual part of the operation is de- scribed in the article just referred to. CEdema of the arm must be treated by posi- tion, and on general principles. When occur- ring in the extreme form spoken of, little of an effective kind can be done for its relief; M. Cruveilhier has in one such case had re- course, “ with some advantage,” to leeches, blisters, and scarification : melius remedium an- ceps quam nullum ? (b.) Salivary Glands.—The salivary glands are rarely affected with scirrhus or encepha- loid, and colloid cancer has not been observed in these organs. Of the numerous cases re- ported by writers as examples of cancerous disease of the parotid for example, there are but few indeed in which it is not highly probable—in the majority this is certain —that the lymphatic glands of the neigh- bourhood were the real seat of the morbid deposition. Tumours thus constituted press upon the parotid, and reduce it by gradual absorption to a thin lamina, which is easily overlooked in the wound, resulting from their ablation. Secondary scirrhous enlargement of the submaxillary and sublingual glands, however, is not of very uncommon occurrence in the course of, or after the removal of cancerous disease of the lip, adjoining skin, or tongue. It is certain, also, that scirrhus and encepha- loid both occasionally originate in the parotid. The disease runs its ordinary course in this gland, nor is there any particular point to be 1 Rust's Magaz. b. 44, s. 191. 1335. VOL. I. noticed except the effects of implication of the fifth and seventh pairs of nerves. In a case observed by Magendie, “ there was complete loss of sensibility in the corresponding side of the face, destruction of vision in the eye of that side, ulceration of the cornea, insensibility of the organ, not only to light, but under the contact of foreign bodies, deviation of the mouth to the opposite side, &C.1” The parotid and submaxillary glands thus affected may be made the subject of opera- tions, the mode of performing which is de- scribed in the articles under those heads. One of the most remarkable operations of this kind on record was performed in 1823 by Beclard : the parotid was here indubitably affected with scirrhus2. V.—Nerves. . See Eve, Neuroma. VI.—Bones, Periosteum and Endosteum3. (a.) Bones.—Cancer presents itself in the tuberous and infiltrated forms. The tuberi- form variety occurs in the cancellated structure of the short and flat, and both in that consti- tuent part and in the central cavity of the long, bones. The subjoined cuts exhibit its appearance in the body of the vertebrae, and in the spongy tissue of the head of the femur. Fig. 162. Fit7-162.—A, Tuheriform scirrhus in the bodies of the. vertebra. The compact substance was destroyed in some of these sit uations. Fin. 163.—Femur fractured at D, the compact tissue having been worn to a thin lamina in that situation by a large tumour; A, B, C, carcinomatous hu- mours ; m, the medulla. Both these figures (copied from Cruveilhier's Livrais. xx.) were made from the bones of a subject affected with mammary cancer; her death had been accele- rated by fracture of both femora. 1 Lectures on the Blood, Lancet, Nov. 17, 1838. 2 Arch. Gen. de Med. Jan. 1824. 3 We take the liberty of proposing the word endos- teum (formed on the model of endocardium) as a con- venient substitute for the phrase, “ lining or medul- lary membrane of the bones.” U u