356 A QUO-MEM BRAN ITIS. four or five grains of the hydrargyrus c. creta every evening, with three or four grains of qui- nine, taken in divided doses during the day; and to these means may be advantageously added the formation of a small issue in the arm. Even in some apparently hopeless cases, where the chambers of the eye have been nearly filled with lymph, I have occasionally had an opportunity of witnessing the restora- tion of a very useful degree of vision, by con- tinuing this plan of treatment, until the gums have become slightly tender ; and then per- severing in the use of quinine, and the occa- sional administration of mercury in smaller doses, until every portion of the lymph has been absorbed, except that which has become securely organized. On this system I have just treated, with great advantage, a poor woman suffering from this variety of inflam- mation. The inflammation was not remark- ably acute, but the neural surface of the cornea was spotted here and there with portions of lymph. The persevering administration of mercury in a mild form, together with the sulphate of quina, restored to her a tolerably perfect state of vision, although her disease had resisted for several months the various plans of treatment which had been tried before I saw her. In the cases of children who have been under my care, where the inflammation has been somewhat severe and protracted, and where the sulphate of quina has not been ser- viceable, I have prescribed, with great advan- tage, an evening powder, containing five grains of mercury with chalk, and three of rhubarb, and also from five to fifteen drops of liquor potass®, to be taken twice a day. Such children have generally had a furred tongue, foetid breath, and tumid abdomen, so that, before commencing the treatment, I have thought it desirable to evacuate the bowels pretty freely with castor oil. I have tried the internal administration of iodine, but it has not answered my expectations, al- though it has sometimes been useful as a collyrium. A small teaspoonful of the follow- ing drops, administered in water two or three times a day, may prove serviceable in cases where the habit is sluggish, the pulse slow and languid, and where the upper lip, tips of the ears, and alae of the nose, are in a state of hypertrophy:— ]^>. Tinct. Iodinii, 3iss. Vini Ferri, 3xivss. Misce. In adults and elderly persons, where the symptoms of the disease have not entirely disappeared after venesection and the use of mercury, and where quinine and various mineral and vegetable tonics have been pre- scribed in vain, I have derived advantage from the administration of the carbonate of iron, or small doses of turpentine, and in other instances colchicum has produced a very satisfactory effect, even when it has appeared almost necessary to relinquish in despair all further attempts to relieve. The indications for the one or other of these remedial agents are afforded by the characters and peculiari- ties of the constitution. During the acute stage of the disease, when the aqueous humour is especially cloudy, the cornea tense, and apparently unduly promi- nent, the tunics of the eye-ball distended, and the frontal pain severe, it has been sug- gested to puncture the cornea and discharge a part of the aqueous fluid'. The immediate effects of this operation are certainly very agreeable, but, unfortunately, they are also very temporary, whilst the direct injury in- flicted, and the pain produced by this surgical process, are very considerable. I do not now express any theoretical objection, but, on the contrary, advance an opinion which has been formed after having repeatedly adopted the practice I am reluctantly compelled to con- demn. In the cases in which I have evacua- ted the aqueous fluid on account of inflamma- tion of its secreting membrane, all the symp- toms relieved by the operation have returned with equal and oftentimes increased severity, in twenty or thirty hours afterwards. The pain occasioned by the operation is very severe, for, in order to perform it properly, the eye-ball must be steadily fixed, and ex- posed to a pretty strong light. To do this simple operation on a healthy eye furnishes no correct guide to the trouble experienced when performing it upon an organ in a con- dition of acute inflammation. As, however, the practice is occasionally adopted, I shall give an account of the mode of performing the operation. The patient should be placed upon a table, as for the operation of extraction, and it is found advisable to bind up the eye upon which it is not intended to operate, as a means of steadying its fellow. A cataract needle (sharp at the point, flattened and sharp at the sides, having a delicate groove running on that side of it opposed to the operator, when intro- duced with its flat side directed towards the iris, but not continued quite to its point,) is then to be passed through the cornea into the anterior chamber for a short distance, when the aqueous humour will spirt through the opening it has made. It is desirable that the instrument be so made that that part of it a little behind its point shall be so small as not quite to fill up the corneal opening, and that the point of the instrument shall not project far into the anterior chamber, lest the iris should bo entangled and injured. The punc- turing of the cornea does not much injure its texture, nor produce severe pain, but the unavoidable exposure of the eye to light, and 1 This practice was first suggested by Dr. Whyte, (Med. and Physical Journal for March, 1802) for the relief of acute inflammation of the eye; it was, how- ever, originally recommended by Mr. Wardrop, as a means of relieving the form of disease under consider- ation, in addition to its applicability to other varieties of ophthalmic disease. Sec his opinions upon the sub- ject in the third volume of the Edinburgh Med. and Surgical Journal, and in the third and tenth volumes of the Mcdico-Chirurgical Transactions.