445 AUSCULTATION. had previously been supposed beyond the reach of the senses. Here, as in the chest, direct and mediate percussion may be used. The former is the older method, the latter is modern. Direct percussion.—Much may be learned by gently tapping the parietes of the abdomen with the pulpy ends of the fingers. If air be accumulated in the intestines we shall have a clear tympanitic sound ; if water in the peri- toneal sac a dull sound. The colon in its healthy state usually contains air enough to sound somewhat tympanitic along its course ; and the volume of the small intestines is neither quite dull, nor quite clear, but yields a sound of an intermediate character. The stomach sounds clear except after a meal, and the liver, projecting below the margin of the ribs, per- fectly dull. So does the spleen. Anatomy teaches the usual position of all these organs, and, by practising percussion on the healthy abdomen, we become familiar with the sounds which they ought to give out when struck with a certain impulse. Percussion will thus be- come a most powerful help to inspection, pal- pation, and the other modes of investigation, and in many cases will be found the most im- portant of all. A well educated ear will dis- tinguish the sound given out by water in the bladder or peritoneum from that which a solid tumor yields, though both are dull. When a fluid is in the abdomen, however, we feel a fluctuation and do not so much require the evidence of the ear. Mediate percussion is the method recom- mended by Piorry, and possesses some advan- tages over the direct. It may be practised, as on the chest, with a plate of ivory, wood, leather or Indian rubber interposed, or the forefinger of the left hand. From the greater difficulty of eliciting sound in the abdomen than the thorax a pleximeter is more neces- sary. If the viscera be tender they are less protected too, and more apt to suffer pain from direct percussion than in thoracic cases. Another advantage also must not be over- looked : a solid tumor in the abdominal parietes will give a dull sound on direct per- I cussion, and may be mistaken for an internal ■ disease. And, again, an internal tumor of con- : siderable importance may be covered with in- i testines containing air, and thus escape notice ; | but if the pleximeter (or a substitute) be skil- i fully used both cases may be detected. By I pressing the pleximeter firmly on the parietal j tumor we shall, on percussion, hear the clear resonance of the healthy abdomen beneath. | And in like manner the existence of a solid I tumor under hollow viscera may be discovered | by pressing firmly on the latter. In the same way a small quantity of fluid over which the I intestines float will escape notice if direct per- cussion be used, but may be ascertained if the pleximeter be pressed steadily back to its level. Some experience is necessary to prevent mis- j takes arising from the natural projection of 1 the spine, the situation of viscera, which ; varies a little in different positions, from the change of place which fluids undergo, and from the great difference in the condition of fat and lean persons, of the old and young, the male and female, &c. (See Abdomen.) Experience alone can give practically useful knowledge on these points, and therefore no opportunity of acquiring it ought to be neglected. (c) Percussion of othei' parts is little used. On the head and extremities a case will seldom present itself in which much informa- tion can be derived from the practice. Tumors occurring in the neighbourhood of the abdomen ought to be percussed. If clearness of sound be perceived they will most probably prove to be hernia;. The contents of herniae may be judged of by the same means. Indeed some- thing of the nature of tumors generally might be ascertained if percussion were more prac- tised. Thus a shade of difference may be detected between the sound of a knee-joint filled with fluid, or occupied with a morbid growth of synovial membrane, or with a fungous mass in which osseous spicula exist. The existence of a calculus in the bladder may be ascertained by the ear ; we may per- cuss it with the “ sound,” and not only feel but hear the stroke. Mr. Brooke has devised an ingenious method of rendering the noise of this stroke audible to an entire class of students. A small circular piece of thin board Js used as a sounding-board; in the middle of which a wooden pin is fastened W'hich fits the end of a catheter, and thus the sound of the latter against the stone is greatly elevated *. III.—Friction is another mode by which sounds are elicited. In every age this has been practised, and especially in surgical cases. It is applicable chiefly to fractured bones, the rough ends of which may be made to rub one against another, and produce a sound well known by the name of crepitus. This sound is always looked for in fractures, and is quite diagnostic. It is much more easy to feel the crepitus than to hear it. That is—the rough grating of the bones is easily felt, but the sound is ex- ceedingly feeble. The person who has hold of the bones thinks he hears the crepitus, which may totally escape the bystanders. This arises from the confusion which the operator’s judgment makes between the two sensations, and also from the impression con- veyed along the chain of bones from the fingers to the ear. When a joint is injured and the synovial secretion altered in quantity or quality, a cre- pitation may be discovered which an incau- tious observer might mistake for the crepitus of fracture. But it is not so grating, and it wants the solidity and resistance which broken bones impart to the touch. This crepitation can scarcely, if at all, be heard without the stethoscope, but it is easily felt.—(See Frac- tures and Luxations.) 1 Med. Gazette-