ALVINE CONCRETION. 68 a power of secreting oil in the intestines, and of discharging it per anum. At three years old her mother observed something come from her as she walked across the room, which, when examined, -was found to be fat in a li- quid state, which concreted when cold. Ever since that time to the present, she has voided at intervals of ten or fourteen days, the quan- tity of from one to three ounces, sometimes pure, at others mixed with faeces ; when voided it has a peculiar yellow tinge, and is quite fluid, like oil. Her appetite and spirits are good, and her flesh Arm ; her belly rather tumid, but not hard; she is subject to occa- sional griping.” Cases of a similar description are recorded in the Act. Nat. Cur., vol. iii., obs. 51 ; by Dr. William Scott, in the Edinburgh Medical Com- mentaries, vol. iv. p. 334 ; by Dr. Elliotson, in the Philosophical Transactions, 1813, Art. 21 ; by Dr. Kuntzmaur, of Berlin, (Journal der Tract. Heilkunde, July, 1821) and by Dietriek, and several others. The fifth class comprehends those concre- tions, the nature of which was discovered by Dr. Kennedy of Glasgow (see Medico-Chir. Journal for Sept. 1817), and which Dr. Ure has described as similar in colour to amber- gris. The sixth class comprehends such concre- tions as are composed of magnesia or chalk, and which have been found in the alimentary canal of persons who for some time have been in the habit of taking considerable quantities of these earths. The seventh class is that which comprehends those concretions which are described as hav- ing been discharged by vomiting by persons who had suffered severely from gout: but of these I know nothing, not having yet seen them. The last class of concretions found in the human alimentary canal is almost entirely formed of the fibrine of the blood, which is in- corporated with a certain proportion of the red globules, and occurs sometimes when the mucous membrane of the intestinal tube has been attacked by acute inflammation, as in se- vere cases of dysentery’. Having given the preceding brief enumer- ation of the different kinds of concretions which are occasionally found within the human alimentary canal, I shall now direct the atten- tion of the reader more particularly to the consideration of the first class. The following observations on this class have been made chiefly from the large collection of these substances in the Anatomical Museum 1 A concretion similar to the bezoar obtained from the stomachs of the smaller ruminating animals has been said to have been found in the human stomach, but of this I entertain very considerable doubt. Per- haps this opinion is advanced on some such case as the following:—a hoy, sixteen years of age, was in the habit of swallowing hair,—he became a prey to hectic fever, and died; on opening the body, the stomach and small intestines were found to contain masses of hair, arranged in concentric layers; the nucleus of one of those balls was a cherry-stone. (Journal de Med., Chir., et Pharm., 1779, t. Iii.) belonging to the University of Edinburgh. For the chemical analysis of these substances, I am indebted to those distinguished chemical philosophers, Professors Thomson of Glasgow, Traill of Edinburgh, and Dr. John Davy. Whether I am correct or not in my notion of the cause of alimentary concretions, I shall not at present stop to inquire ; but when once formed, it cannot be doubted, that the bowels would, from the admirable mode in which the performance of their functions is provided for, eventually eliminate them, if the retention and enlargement of those foreign bodies, were not favoured by the perversion of these functions, the narrowness of the intestinal tube, its nu- merous flexuosities, and the depths of the vaL vuIcb conniventes. Alimentary Concretions :—Number.—It gene- rally happens that one or two concretions only are found in the human alimentary tube, though the rule admits many exceptions. My father, in his lectures, used to make mention of the case of a boy of twelve years of age, in whose colon he could distinctly feel twelve concretions of different sizes, and these were moveable. Dr. Malcolm, of Perth, within these few weeks has favoured me with two, of sixty concretions, which he collected from the same individual. Some of the smaller ones had been discharged by the anus, but the larger were found after the patient’s death firmly impacted within the larger intestines; the following is a copy of the letter I received from Dr. Malcolm, when he sent to me the alvine concretions. “John Bett, shoe-maker, JEt. 21. Has been ill nearly two years, with complaints, which at different periods, had been treated by various medical men, as cholic, hysteria, inflammation, flatulency, &c. &c. During the accessions of his complaint, his sufferings were horrible, and so frequent in recurrence, that he was totally incapacitated for work. “ I saw Bett frequently during these attacks ; the convolutions of the intestines could be dis- tinctly felt, swelled and knotty, as from flatus ; but touching or handling the knots gave him acute pain. I prescribed for him, ol. tere- binth., aloetic medicines, tinct. valerian., &c. without giving him any rplief. In September last, whilst taking bitter infusion, calculi began to come away by stool, and have continued to do so till very lately to the number oi thirty- eight. He is poor, and consequently his diet has been such as is usual with peasants in Scotland, namely, oatmeal and potatoes, &c. He now enjoys perfectly good health.” This patient died a year after the date of this letter. Leave having been obtained to examine his body, several large concretions were found, firmly impacted within the trans- verse arch of the colon. A considerable number of concretions have also been found within the stomach. Lazoni met with ten such bodies, and Bilquer has related the history of the case of an old man, in whose stomach he met with thirty calculi ol different sizes. It is right to observe, that these alvine concretions are not so frequently met with in