FISTULA, INTESTINAL. 193 from the wound. He then divided longitudi- nally the external fistulous canal and the membranous funnel, and saw distinctly that “ the two orifices of the intestine had remain- ed in a direction parallel to each other, and without being at all turned towards each other, and that a ridge projected between them which alone would have been sufficient to prevent the direct entrance of the feculent matter from the superior into the inferior orifice. Therefore, as in this patient there was no doubt that after the fourteenth day the feces had begun to resume their natural course, it was not difficult to comprehend that the alimentary matters had been poured from the superior orifice of the intestine, first into the membranous funnel formed by the remains of the neck of the hernial sac, then from this by a half circle into the inferior orifice of the intestine. And it was precisely within this half circle of the membranous funnel that the shells and claws of the cray- fish had been accumulated, and, by obstruct- ing the communication between the two ori- fices of the intestine, had occasioned the rup- ture of the ileum above the union of this intestine with the remains of the neck of the hernial sac.” He also1 met with a similar arrangement of the parts in examining the body of a woman, who, for several years, had a fistulous open- ing in the groin, in consequence of a gan- j grenous femoral hernia. The protrusion ap- peared to have been small, implicating only a part of the cylinder of the intestine. In this instance the two orifices were united at an obtuse angle, and were, as in the former case, “surrounded by, and included in, a mem- branous funnel, formed by the peritoneum, or the remains of the hernial sac.” Water in- jected down the upper portion of intestine, met with considerable resistance in its pas- sage ; and, precisely at the angle of union of the two portions of intestine, the injected fluid was observed to make a half circle within the femoral arch, and to distend the integu- ments at the groin before entering the lower orifice of the intestine. Scarpa observes, that nothing could be more evident, than that the great peritoneal sac, containing the abdominal viscera, extended under the femoral arch to form the membranous funnel, of which the base included the two orifices of the intes- tine, and the apex was lost in the narrow fistulous tube remaining in the bend of the thigh. On dividing longitudinally the fistulous tube and the membranous funnel, the two orifices of the intestine appeared, still more distinctly than before, to be united together laterally, at an obtuse angle, in such a manner that the inferior orifice was placed a little more behind, and lower than the superior. The ridge projecting between the two ori- fices was neither so complete nor so promi- nent as in the subject of the preceding ob- servation, nor such as to intercept all direct 1 Op. citat. p. 305. communication between the superior and the inferior portions of the ileum. But this direct passage was so narrow, that even pure water forcibly injected, rather than dilate the con- tracted passage, descended from the superior orifice into the membranous funnel, then turned back round the femoral arch, and afterwards entered into the lower orifice of the ileum. Mr. Travers1 has also shown by experi- ment, that “ the peritoneal surface is essen- tial to the restoration of an intestine, of which a part has been disorganized by stricture.” From these observations it is evident, that the continuity of the intestinal canal is not restored by a direct union of the divided por- tions of intestine, but indirectly through the medium of the hernial sac ; that the sac con- stitutes a funnel-shaped membrane, embracing the two openings of the intestine by its base, and prolonged by its apex through the aponeurotic opening of the abdominal wall into the fistulous canal in the integuments ; and that the feculent and alimentary matters are first poured from the upper portion of the intestine into the membranous funnel, and thence into the lower orifice of the intestine ; and that the two divided portions of intestine unite at an angle, which forms a valvular ridge or projection, and more or less com- pletely obstructs the direct passage of the intestinal contents frqm the upper to the lower portion of the tube. As the process of restoration advances, the divided portions of intestine, the angular pro- jection, and the adherent neck of the sac, be- come gradually retracted within the abdomen, and the injured portion of intestine regains a certain degree of mobility. In one of the cases, examined by Scarpa2 several years after the operation for hernia, the orifices of the intestine, with the neck of the sac ad- herent, were drawn several lines from the femoral arch ; and Dupuytren3 states that he has found the intestine loose in the abdominal cavity, and not directly adherent to the walls, but connected to them by a fibro-cellular cord, which constituted the sole remnant of the adhesions formerly uniting them. Various agents are supposed to assist in pro- ducing this retraction. The intestinal con- tents in passing over the projecting ridge act upon it, and gradually diminish its promi- nence, pushing it back with a force propor- tioned to the resistance which they experi- ence to their escape through the narrow' w'ound in the abdomen. The peristaltic movements, and the more extensive undula- tions of the entire canal, are supposed by M. Dupuytren 4 to contribute to the loosening and elongation of the adhesions, which con- nect the opened part of the intestine to the 1 Inquiry into the Process of Nature in repairing Injuries of the Intestines, p. 358. 2 Op. citat. p. 306. 3 Dictionnairo de Medecine et dc Chirurgie Pra- tiques; art. Anus Anormal, tom. iii. p. 130. 4 Op. citat. p. 137. VOL. II. o