ASPHYXIA. 430 skin, exposed to the cold, although it be winter, and cold water thrown upon his face until the respiratory movements reappear. This is precisely the treatment adopted in practice to revive an individual in a state of asphyxia. If, instead of cold, continued warmth were to be applied, it would be one of the most effectual means of extinguishing life. This consequence, like the former, is confirmed by experience. In sudden faintings, when the pulse is weak or imperceptible, the action of the respiratory organs diminished, and sensation and voluntary motion suspended, persons the most ignorant of medicine are aware that means of refrigera- tion must be employed, such as exposure to air, ventilation, sprinkling with cold water. The efficacy of this plan of treatment is ex- plained on the principle before laid down. Likewise in violent attacks of asthma, when the extent of respiration is so reduced that the patient experiences suffocation, he courts the cold even in the most severe weather; he opens the windows, breathes a frosty air, and finds himself relieved. Admitting then the correctness of Dr. Edwards’ views, of which there can be little doubt, the directions which have been given by the Royal Humane Society for the recovery of persons apparently dead, are liable to ob- jections ; first, in regard to the temperature recommended, and, secondly, to the re- clothing and otherwise enveloping the body. On these points the following directions have been given :—“ While some assistants are engaged with artificial respiration, others, we have already hinted, should be employed in communicating continued heat to the body. Dry warm blankets, bags of warm grains, or sand bladders, or bottles of hot water, or hot bricks, or hot blankets, wrung out of hot water, are amongst the means most easily obtained. The body may be placed before a fire, or in the sunshine, if strong at the time. Whatever may be the means employed, the restoration of warmth should always be ar- duously pursued. Should the accident happen in the neighbourhood of a steam-engine, brew- house, bake-house, or any fabric where warm water may be easily procured, it would be of great importance to place the body in a warm bath, moderated to a degree of heat not ex- ceeding one hundred degrees. The warmth most promising of success is that of a heated bed or blankets. Bottles of hot water should be laid at the bottoms of the feet, to the joints of the knees, and under the arm-pits ; and a warming-pan, moderately heated, or hot bricks wrapped in cloths, should be passed over the body, and particularly in the direction of the spine. A large bladder should be applied, filled with hot water, and inclosed in flannel, to the region of the stomach and heart. The natural and kindly warmth of a healthy person, lying by the side of the body, has been found in some cases of adults, and particularly of children, very efficacious ; but the warm bath, where it can be procured, is preferable to all other means of communicating heat.”—Royal Humane Society’s Report, 1833, p. 100. Were the directions here recommended to be implicitly obeyed, the enfeebled vital ac- tions would be in danger of extinction, and the “ apparent death” would soon become real. The temperature of the apartment in which the body is laid, should in general not be higher than 73° or 80°; and Dr. Edwards even recommends in some cases that it should be lower than this. The advantage to be derived from exposing the surface of the body to the vivifying influence of the air is alto- gether lost sight of, when the body is recom- mended to be “ re-clothed,” “ to be wrapt in blankets wrung out with hot water,” or to be immersed in a “ warm bath.” Where heat is demanded, its application is therefore prefer- able in the radiant form, and when conducted heat is called for, it should be so partial in its application, as to interfere but little with the exposure of the surface to the “ vivifying in- fluence” of the air. The employment of heat in the radiant form also gives us the oppor- tunity of applying friction and other excitants to the body, and does not interfere with our endeavours to restore life by artificial respi- ration. The body should therefore be placed before the fire, or in the sunshine,and bottles of warm water, or warm bricks, applied to limited por- tions of the cutaneous surface, such as the soles of the feet, or the arm-pits. A proper temperature also may be applied to the spine and back by means of the tin mattrasses filled with warm water, such as were recently used during the prevalence of cholera, in several of the hospitals. By these proceedings the in- fluence of the air on the skin, in rousing the action of the capillaries, and imparting oxygen to the blood, is uninterfered with, whilst fric- tion, the application of stimuli, and, above all, artificial respiration, can be advantageously resorted to We have been thus particular in detailing the researches of Dr. Edwards and their ap- plication to the human being when in a state of asphyxia, in consequence of the directions of the Humane Society being sanctioned by the authority of others who have treated of this subject. And no matter how great the caution exercised in avoiding the too sudden application of heat, the circumstances of the case must be very peculiar indeed which should warrant us in raising it beyond what we have already recommended, much less to the height of “98° or 100°”. Artificial Respiration.—Simultaneously with the employment of a well-regulated tem- perature, artificial respiration should be re- sorted to. When we consider that the natural process of respiration is carried on by the alternate dilatation and contraction of the thorax, and the admission of pure atmospheric air to the lungs, it is obvious that, in a state of asphyxia, the operation by which we attempt to restore respiration resolves itself into two processes. The first, by which we imitate the