FRACTURE. 270 It is manifest enough when such points as those in No. 8, fig. 294, and various loose spi- cular portions, are seen partially involved in, or projecting from, a newly consolidated mass, that they must produce forms of which it may not be easy to surmise the rise and progress ; especially when absorption also has finally had time to work its remodelling alterations. There is a rare appearance which I have met with in repairing fracture, which may ex- plain the foundation of the above considera- tions, and I think, also, place them in a very unequivocal light. For instance, an oblique fracture of the femur with considerable over- lapping of fragments, and but little division of periosteum, shall be affected with violent inflam- mation and tumefaction, and the sufferer shall die of coma after phrenitis, almost before ossi- fication shall be supposed to have commenced. After macerating the parts, a cell of new bone is seen like a swan’s egg, or larger, with thin, delicate, spongy, and fragile walls, irre- gular and somewhat divided by fissures and vacant spaces, enveloping all the fracture, and adhering only around the two shafts at a con- siderable distance from their broken ends, which are totally devoid of ossific changes. This egg-shell could never be made out by sections of soft callus. Traces of the appear- ance described are not very uncommon, and occasionally considerable parts become perma- nent and solid. The phenomenon is only rare as a whole. It is a cast of the inner surface of the periosteum after it has been detached by rapid and excessive inflammatory effusion, and after ossification, beginning where periosteum adhered to bone, had been hastily formed (bone upon bone), wherever a due supply of blood was ready for the purpose. When we find that the outer faces of the new bone assume an irregular aspect, and even throw out spines and other inequalities, we are led to seek for the causes of these varieties, and to enquire what share the peri- osteum may have had in their production. We observe that the bands of membrane may be torn across, and this without inducing any necessary or material inequality either in the direction of the two parts, or in the ossifica- tion which they appear still in a great mea- sure to regulate. We may also trace the circumstances already described where a greater separation has occurred, and a com- mensurate disturbance, or delay, has arisen in the progress of the union ; but it is when a divided band of periosteum becomes much everted, or even reflected, that some of the most perverted forms of ossification are ulti- mately found. It is, however, a general law, that the earthy callus has always one even external (periosteal) surface ; and without dwelling on the partial, or unreal exceptions, that may be advanced, I have made this statement to facili- tate the explanation of the forms of old callus. The enquirer will not be induced to suppose that the formation of periosteum follows that of its bone, although the characters of the membrane, following that of its bone, are ne- cessarily changed when growth ceases and unnecessary parts become removed. With regard to the relative position of fragments and periosteal bands, the observer will find a parallel between No. 4,fig. 294 and 295, and between No. 5,fig. 294 and 296 ; and in the respective drawings are to be seen indi- cations of the sites of active periosteum in the surfaces of the new bone. It will be manifest that the course of the periosteal bands depends on the particular bone broken and the nature of the displace- ments of its parts, and that occasionally there will be various combinations of the particular instances, which the diagrams explain. It will also be necessary to remember, that in- cluding the effects of inflammation in sepa- rating the periosteum, the diagrams may be far surpassed by the realities, as I could fully and readily prove with the specimens in hand. It is necessary to make allowances also for what I have explained with reference to the cicatrization or reunion of periosteal layers. Now, if it be true, as I do not doubt Fig. 295. Open fracture of the femur—necrosis and reunion in propress.—Guy's Museum. This fiyure represents one of the innumerable forms of reunion, and may serve to illustrate the method of considering the parts, in order to explain the origin and course of the new formations. At the end of each fragment are necrotic portions in process of separa- tion. The new bone is attached to the living, and has rwarly effected a junction of the two portions. The external spongy tissue indicates the new bone, the out- line of which is that of active periosteum. The end of the largerfragment seems to have been stript of its periosteum, as the overlappim/ took place; and its displaced membrane seems to have caused the prin- cipal mass of ossification, adhering to the upper frag- ment. The points in closest proximity, ar.a which are of new bone, were united by ligament or membrane.