400 GANGRENE, HOSPITAL. In the third and last stage of the Bilbao epidemic, as described by Dr. Hennen, “ the surface of the sore was constantly covered with a bloody oozing, and, on lifting up the edge of the flabby slough, the probe was tinged with dark-coloured grumous blood, with which also its track became immediately filled; repeated and copious venous bleed- ings now came on, under which the patient rapidly sank; the sloughs, whether falling off spontaneously, or detached by art, were quickly succeeded by others, and discovered on their removal small thickly studded specks of arterial blood. At length an artery sprang, which, in the attempt to secure it, most pro- bably burst under the ligature ; the tourniquet or other pressure was now applied, but in vain ; for while it checked the bleeding it accelerated the death of the limb, which be- came frightfully swelled and horribly fetid.” When hospital gangrene is extending its ravages through the different textures which it encounters, destroying tendinous fasciae, muscles, ligaments, and tendons, together with the nerves and blood-vessels, artery seems to be the texture which resists most power- fully its destructive action. “ In some rare cases,” says Dr. Hennen, “ I have seen the femoral and axillary arteries pulsating awfully, and apparently unaffected with disease, while all the surrounding parts were completely destroyed ; but in a vast majority of cases, the blood-vessels partook of the general dis- ease, in which they were embedded. They were not only completely separated from their natural connexions, but their coats sloughed away at the immediate point of dis- ease, while the disposition extended far be- yond the apparently affected spot.” At an early period of the attack of hospital gangrene, the patient is generally conscious of a change in the usual sensation of the sore, which he cannot well describe, but which is accompanied by an occasional painful sensa- tion resembling the stinging of a gnat *. The stinging sensation becomes more frequent and acute, and, as the disease extends, acquires gradually a more darting or lancinating cha- racter. The disease, as seen by Mr. Wel- bank, was attended at all periods with severe darting pains, at first occurring at intervals, but gradually establishing themselves as a more constant symptom, with occasional ex- acerbations. When the neighbouring parts become involved in acute inflammation, there is a great increase of pain, the sensation being described to be such as if the sore was burning. The discharges from sores affected with hospital gangrene exhale an odour that seems peculiar to the disease. No comparison, as M. Delpech observes, can serve to give even an idea of the specific odour of hospital gan- grene ; it is a character of the disease which must absolutely be studied by observation. Constitutional phenomena.—About the same 1 B’.ackadder. time that the open wound or ulcer assumes an unhealthy character, the general constitution experiences in many cases a considerable de- gree of disturbance. In some cases this is limited to nervous or gastric derangement; but in a large proportion, pyrexial symptoms of various characters manifest themselves. The opinions of observers vary as to the rela- tion of these two classes of symptoms, the constitutional and the local, in respect of the order of their appearance. Some represent the local symptoms as having uniformly the precedence ; others allege the same in regard of the constitutional symptoms ; whilst others are disposed to believe that the one or other class, indifferently, may be the first to manifest itself. A considerable degree of importance has been attached to this question, from the idea that its decision must determine whether hospital gangrene be originally a constitu- tional disease, and the altered state of the wound merely symptomatic of constitutional derangement; or whether, on the contrary, this affection be essentially local, and the con- stitutional disturbance only symptomatic of the local malady. It cannot be admitted, however, as a general, or at least as an uni- versal law in pathology, that in constitutional diseases, the constitutional symptoms, and in local diseases, the local symptoms are the first to manifest themselves; nor would it be found a safe therapeutical principle for our guidance, that the propriety of a constitutional or local plan of treatment should be decided by the order, in appearance, of these two classes of symptoms. Instances, however, arc not wanting, either of individual cases, or of epidemics of hos- pital gangrene, in which the local phenomena of this disease have manifested themselves with very little appearance of constitutional derangement. “ Some few constitutions,” says Dr. Hennen, in speaking of the disease as witnessed by him at Bilbao, “ resisted the febrile affection altogether ; some had exten- sive local disease, without any general affec- tion.” Those cases he observed principally to occur among the hospital attendants, who occasionally respired a purer air than the patients. Dr. Thomson mentions that the hospital gangrene, as it prevailed after the battle of Waterloo, at Antwerp, seemed to be unaccompanied with fever, or any other great derangement of the general system, although at Brussels this was by no means the case. Sometimes cases of hospital gangrene run on for a time in a chronic manner, and may cause very considerable destruction of parts, without the system appearing to be much affected by the disease ; but, most frequently, after it has spread to a certain extent, sym- ptoms denoting constitutional irritation be- come apparent, after which the progress of the local disease goes on in a more rapid manner. As the local symptoms may manifest them- selves, and run on for a considerable length of time, without superinducing, or becoming