792 CLUB-FOOT. by section of the tendo achillis is that related by Thilenius (1784) already referred to. Sar- torius and Michaelis some years afterwards followed the example of Thilenius, but their operations were imperfectly conceived, and rather calculated to throw discredit on the practice. Sartorius employed so much vio- lence to bring down the heel immediately after dividing the tendon, that he lacerated the ligaments, and excited a high degree of in- flammation, the consequence of which was an- kylosis of the ancle joint. Michaelis endea- voured to weaken the tendon by cutting through one third only of its substance, and then resorting to force to reduce the foot to its natural position. By this proceeding he must have incurred great risk of giving rise to suppuration and sloughing of the tendon, and inflammation of the joint, and could only have effected his object by rupturing the un- divided portion of the tendon. We cannot wonder, therefore, that Michaelis had no imi- tators, and that such an operation was soon abandoned. The merit of working out the true nature of club-foot, of laying down sounder princi- ples for treating it, and especially of having endeavoured to establish the Thilenian ope- ration on the basis of those principles, is justly due to Delpech. Having observed the mode of union of divided tendons, he con- ceived the idea of effecting a cure after divi- sion by a gradual extension of the uniting medium before it had acquired much firmness. He carried his views into practice by dividing the tendo achillis in a case of pes equinus in the year 1816. The attempt proved suc- cessful, but owing to the unnecessary extent of the wound and the disturbance of the sur- rounding tissue, in consequence of the foot having been immediately brought to the natu- ral position, in order to satisfy himself that the obstacle had been overcome, suppuration and sloughing supervened, and its ultimate restoration was not accomplished till some months had elapsed. It is surprising that so favourable a result was at length obtained, since extension was not commenced till a month after section was performed, the wounds being even then uncicatrized. This attempt was ridiculed by Cruveilhier ; and neither by Delpech, nor by any other surgeon, was the operation repeated till it was performed by Stromeyer in 1831. Like Delpech, Stromeyer pursued his in- vestigations in a scientific spirit. He detected the errors of his predecessors, and laid down rules for avoiding them, deduced from theo- retical reasoning confirmed by experience. In 1833 and 1834 he published two memoirs containing the histories of six successful cases. His views were, after some little opposition, adopted and practically tested by many con- tinental surgeons : the practice was early and successfully introduced into this country, and Dr. Stromeyer has now the satisfaction of seeing it universally established without any essential modification of the method at first laid down by him. Stromeyer’s rules are, first, by a puncture of the skin and a subcu- taneous division of the tendon, exposure of the tendon and its sheath is avoided, and the danger of inflammation is consequently les- sened ; secondly, he considers that it is un- advisable to commence the restoration of the foot until the external wound is completely cicatrised ; the contrary proceeding being often followed by inflammation and suppuration. Nor is early extension necessary, since the recovery by the muscle of its normal sphere of action is not so much the result of the gradual mechanical extension applied subse- quently to the healing of the wound, as the effect of the stimulus to its contractility afforded by the motions of the limb during exercise after complete reunion of the tendon. Mr. Whipple, of Plymouth, and M. Bou- vier, both recommend extension of the foot to be commenced immediately after the sec- tion of the tendon, alleging that the process is more painful when deferred till the wound is healed. “ This assertion,” says Stromeyer, “ is entirely imaginary, as the pain thus pro- duced is never referred by the patient to the divided part, but to other tissues still resist- ing the extension, the tibialis posticus and peronaei muscles, and the posterior ligaments of the joint'.” By far the majority of operators have adopt- ed the views and follow the practice of Stro- meyer, the various improvements suggested having reference to the form of knife, the distance from the heel at which section should be performed, and the mode of dividing the tendon, whether from behind forwards, or the reverse, whether by a transverse or oblique section. “ There has indeed,” as Dr. Little remarks2, “been no improvement of the prin- ciples laid down by Delpech, the value of which was first satisfactorily demonstrated and practically illustrated and enforced by Stromeyer. But there has been a departure from these principles, which Stromeyer has justly designated a retrograde process.” The shape of the knife employed for the division of the tendo achillis is a point of little moment, provided that it accomplishes the essential rule of severing the tendon by means of a puncture, with the least possible disturbance of the surrounding parts. For performing section of the tendon of the tibia- lis posticus, Dr. Little recommends a stouter blade, to guard against the possibility of the point being broken in the wound. At the end of his treatise, Dr. Little has added the figures of five knives employed by him in operating. A narrow-bladed common scalpel, or small straight bistoury, will answer every purpose in the hands of a surgeon of ordinary dexterity. The point at which the section of the achilles tendon should be performed must be regulated by the degree of elevation 1 Beitrage zur operativen Orthop'adik, p. 17. 5 Treatise on Club-foot and analogous Distortions, Introduction, p. lx.