414 ARTICULATIONS. syphilis treated by mercury. Here, there- fore, the argument from analogy has great cogency, and the morbid changes which the fibro-cartilages undergo furnish additional evi- dence of the same character. 3. The conclusions deducible from morbid anatomy are still more striking and decisive. It is true that the effects of diseased action are not displayed in articular cartilage in the same way as in most other parts, but it must be remembered that the phenomena of ulcer- ation vary with the varying tissues in which they are manifested. Whatever view we may adopt of the ulcerative process, the fact will remain the same, that this action goes on in cartilage. Very frequently, on opening a joint, we find the cartilage removed at some points, and the bone exposed; around the margins of this denudation the cartilage is seen to be distinctly softened, a little swollen, and bevelling down upon the bone; while in other parts the same process has produced slight pits and fossae on the surface, not yet extend- ing to the osseous structure. I have several times distinctly and carefully noticed this ap- pearance, which is inexplicable on any other supposition than that the process commences in the cartilage itself, and its occurrence has been confirmed by the testimony of other ob- servers, among whom I may cite Brodie, Hey, Mayo, and Wickham. In other cases, as Beclard and many others testify, we find the cartilage not having as yet undergone any actual destruction, but softened or even pulpy, and hanging in villous fibres, or fringed brush- like projections into the cavity of the joint. In the Dictionnaire de Medecine et Chi- rurgie Pratique, Cruveilhier himself describes this state of things, and candidly avows his inability to account for it, unless by a process instituted within the substance of the carti- lage itself. Another statement made by Cru- veilhier, in his ninth Livraison, to the effect that after gout he has found the urate of soda deposited not merely on the free surface, but in the very substance of articular cartilage, is equally irreconcileable with the opinion that this tissue enjoys no organic life. In the Mu- seum of Guy’s Hospital there is an interesting preparation of the hip-joint, in which ulcera- tion is seen to be proceeding at the edges of the femoral cartilage, and in the neighbour- hood of the ligamentum teres. At a little distance from this ulceration are seen two or three much raised button-like projections, not having the fibrous brush-like appearance al- ready described, but of uniform surface, and closely resembling the protrusion which takes place of the semifluid centre of the interver- tebral substance, when the bodies of two ver- tebrae are separated. Around these projec- tions the cartilage is entire. I am at a loss to account for this appearance, and have never seen anything precisely similar; but the conclusion to be drawn from it, that the tissue in which it occurs must be organized, is un- deniable. In fine, it may be added, that Brodie and Mayo concur in asserting that in cases where ulceration of cartilages has been consequent to articular osteitis they have re- peatedly seen red vessels passing into the substance of the cartilage. From this mingled series of analogies and facts may be deduced the conclusion that the articular cartilage is a living tissue, susceptible of morbid action, and amenable to the same great laws of life which preside over every other portion of the frame. There yet re- mains to be noticed a doctrine connected with the ulceration of cartilage, similar in some points to that advanced by Cruveilhier and Velpeau, as it is founded on the confessedly low organization of this structure, but incom- parably better supported by facts and argu- ments. I allude to the ingenious and original views propounded by Mr. Key in a paper on the Ulcerative Process in Joints, published some years ago, in the Med.-Chir. Trans., and subsequently supported by further observa- tions transmitted to the public through the same medium. Very erroneous views have been entertained with respect to these opinions, and I shall seek to state them as concisely and clearly as possible. Mr. Key admits that primary ulceration of the cartilage may, and does, occur, but contends that the removal of cartilage, which takes place consecutively, to synovitis, or osteitis, is not an ulcerative act commencing in the cartilage, but a process of absorption set up by the surrounding pre- viously affected tissues, for the removal of a body obstructive to the process of ankylosis by which a disorganized joint is repaired. To show that such a process may be car- ried on by the vessels of one tissue upon another, Mr. Key cites the case of a necrotic bone in which the portions of sequestra corre- sponding to the cloacae in the new shell are found smooth and entire, while those com- pletely surrounded by the regenerated bone are worm-eaten, in consequence of absorption instituted by the villous fringes prolonged from the interior of the living case. The other arguments urged by Mr. Key are prin- cipally as follows :—cartilage is of such low organization, that absorption can scarcely be supposed to take place within its structure. After synovitis, and where ulceration of car- tilage has occurred, this process is generally found to have commenced at the margins of the cartilage, and vascular prolongations from the synovial membrane are found loosely at- tached to the ulcerating spots. A similar state of things is observed in those cases where grooves are formed along the cartilaginous surface. To these grooves a highly-injected and newly-developed false membrane accu- rately applies. Where ulceration follows osteitis, the cartilage is first removed on its attached surface; and where this process of removal is going on, a vascular membrane is found to have shot up from the surface ol the bone. I am ready to confess that the preparations adduced by Mr. Key in support of these views are very striking, and that the principle