EAR, AND HEARING, DISEASES OF. 7 sequence what form of speculum is used, only it is to be remarked that the inner surface of its funnel should not be polished. Every thing being disposed as above described, the sur- geon, taking the speculum in his right hand, inserts the end of its funnel closed into the auditory passage, not deeper than half an inch, and in such a manner that when the halves of the funnel are separated by pressure on the arms of the instrument, it may be in a direc- tion upwards and downwards, so that the up- per and lower walls of the cartilaginous and membranous portion of the auditory passage, are the parts pressed on. In looking into the auditory passage, the surgeon must take care not to intercept the light by his own head. By conducting the examination in the man- ner described, not only is the state of the auditory passage ascertained, but the mem- brana tympani may be seen in its whole ex- tent, if there be nothing to obstruct the view. The morbid appearances observable in the au- ditory passage, are inflammation of its lining integument, and, perhaps, tumefaction so great, that the mouth of the passage is con- siderably contracted ; pustules or crusts, or cuticular desquamations, morbid accumulations of wax, polypous excrescences, and occasion- ally false membranes stretching between its walls, and even, though rarely, obliteration of the passage altogether. The most common condition which comes under the eye of the surgeon is chronic inflammation with dis- charge. As to the membrana tympani, we can ob- serve distinctly whether it be glistening or dim, whether it be semi-transparent or opaque, and this again, whether partially so or in its whole extent; whether its depression is evi- dent, or whether, in consequence of thickening of the membrane itself, it has become indis- tinct or altogether obliterated ; whether the membrane be perforated or not. We can also observe the handle of the malleus in its whole length, and whether or not there be any undue vascularity around it. An obser- vation, to be more fully discussed in a subse- quent part of this article, may be here antici- pated, and that is, a false membrane, which, when the membrana tympani has been entirely destroyed by ulceration, occasionally forms around the small bones when these still retain their place, and which I have seen mistaken for the real membrana tympani. It is, how- ever, to be distinguished by its irregularity of surface and circumference, and by its lying deeper than the real membrane, and by the absence of distinct continuity of surface with the skin of the auditory passage ; it in fact lies in the cavity of the tympanum stretched in front of the outer wall of the labyrinth, to- ward which it is, along with the handle of the malleus, especially at the lower part, drawn. In such cases the hearing has been annihilated, or nearly so. In the examination of the external ear, the mastoid, process should not be overlooked. Pain may already exist in it or be producible by pressure. The skin over it may be red or livid, and a collection of matter discovered underneath, or matter having been already evacuated, fistulous openings, leading to ca- rious bone, may present themselves. (d.') Diseases of the auricle, auditory passage, and membrana tympani. As the tegumentary tissue invests these parts, they are frequently involved in cuta- neous diseases. The auditory passage and membrana tympani especially suffer from the dregs of the exanthemata. Injuries and diseases of the auricle. Imperfect development and absence of the auricle.—The auricle has been frequently found imperfectly developed. Loffler1 once saw in a new-born infant, a congenital fissure, ex- tending transversely through the whole au- ricle, and the edges a finger’s breadth from each other. The edges, being made raw, were united by suture, and the deformity was, in consequence, very much diminished. The auricles may not be formed at all, or their de- velopment may be so arrested that they shall be represented merely by unshapely folds of skin, with or without cartilage, or they may deviate more or less from their usual form, size, and situation. The auricle has been cut, torn, or shot off, or entirely destroyed by disease. The mere absence or loss of the auricle is not alone a sufficient cause of deaf- ness, though it is obvious, that under many circumstances sounds will be but imperfectly collected. See Otoplasty. Wounds of the auricle.—Incised wounds of the auricle readily heal. When of consider- able extent and irregular, they require to be united by stitches and supported by proper pads and bandages. There are instances of re-union of the auricle after its complete de- tachment by a cutting instrument, and even after it has been almost entirely torn off. Erysipelas is apt to supervene and impede the healing of wounds of the auricle. The common simple operation of piercing the lobes, though sometimes expected to prove sanative, occasionally gives rise to consider- able irritation. M. Bobe-Moreau, in a paper professedly on the bad effects often arising from piercing the lobes of the ears2, relates cases in which inflammation and swelling of the auricle, pustular eruptions on the face, and enlargement of the neighbouring lymphatic glands took place, accompanied by more or less pain and general fever. Hufeland, more- over3, tells us of an infant which died of locked jaw, brought on, as it was believed, by the nurse having pierced the ears three days after birth. Continued pressure on the auricle oceasion- 1 Von den Krankheiten des ausseren Ohres. In Stark’s neues Archiv fur die Gcburtsliulfe, Frauen- zimmer-und-Kinderkrankhciten, Bd. i. p. 410. Jena, 1«00- „ . . , 2 Journal General do Medecine, &c. xne Annee, No. cxxxii. tome xxix. Aout, 1807, p. 362. 3 Journal dcr practischcn Heilkundc, xii. 1806, p. 210.