ANEURISM. very short time ; for as I have previously pointed out, when an artery is either divided or tied, anastomosing branches freely carry on the circulation ; and the cases in which the ope- ration of Brasdor has been performed, where the tumour was large, prove that instead of in- creasing in size after the artery was tied on its distal side, the swelling in a few minutes di- minished considerably—a circumstance which was satisfactorily ascertained by the skin which covered it, and which was tense and ready to burst before the operation, immediately form- ing into wrinkles as soon as the ligature was applied upon the artery. If the current of the blood be thus turned into a new channel, the aneurismal sac, as well as the portion of the artery extending between the aneurism and the ligature, will now be in a passive state ; and though the blood may continue, for a cer- tain time, to be influenced by the impulse of the circulation which is carried on in that part of the vessel which passes into the tumour, still its current must become, not only irregular, but extremely languid—a condition which we know wiil admit of its being speedily coagulated. Whenever the coagulation of the blood in an aneurism does take place, then the cure of the disease may be said to be accomplished ; a fibrinous concretion is deposited, and the sac contracts ; or if the quantity of coagulated blood be very great, some clots may be dis- charged through the skin by a process of sup- uration, the fibrine formed within the sac will e ultimately absorbed, and the aneurism con- solidated. Let us next consider the difference in the condition of the blood which is contained in an aneurism, when a ligature has been placed on the cardiac, as compared with that in which it is found when a ligature has been placed on the distal or capillary side of the tumour. If the ligature be applied on the cardiac side of an aneurism, as the blood cannot be propelled from the sac through the capillaries of the artery, which is obstructed by the ligature, it must remain there until it be either absorbed or evacuated by a process of inflammation and ulceration of the tumour and its adjacent in- teguments. But when the ligature is placed upon the capillary side of an aneurism, there is an immediate diminution in the bulk of the tu- mour, the fluid blood within it can find, under such circumstances, a ready exit into the ar- terial trunk, along which it had passed, and thus, again, it gets into the circulation, in place of, as in the other case, having no exit but through the capillaries ; and no more blood can be afterwards impelled into the tumour, a new channel for carrying on the circulation being immediately established. This diminution in the bulk of the aneur- ismal tumour, a point so clearly established by a reference to all the cases wherein Brasdor’s .operation has been employed, is one of great importance, and ought to be taken into con- sideration in operating for aneurism in those cases where the ligature, according to the choice of the surgeon, may be applied, either VOL. x. on the cardiac or capillary side of the tu- mour. In two cases of carotid aneurism, where the ligature was placed on the cardiac side of the sac, both patients died from an increase in the size of the tumour, which took place after the operation. It would therefore seem, that when the ligature is placed on the cardiac side of an aneurism, the contents of the sac are not diminished, but a congestion takes place of all the blood which it may contain at the time of the operation ; whereas, when a liga- ture is applied on the capillary or distal side of the sac, an immediate and permanent diminution is produced in the bulk of the tumour. In the cases of carotid aneurism, where the ligatures were placed on the cardiac side of the sac, the cause of death was attributed “ to the inflammation of the aneurismal sac and parts adjacent, by which the size of the tumour became increased, so as to press on the pharynx and prevent deglu- tition, and upon the larynx so as to excite violent fits of coughing, and ultimately to im- pede respiration.” (A. Cooper.) This con- gestion and subsequent inflammation of the sac are therefore to be considered as serious evils attending the Hunterian operation,—evils which are in a great degree avoided when the ligature is placed on the capillary side of the tumour. It is not one of the least important advan- tages of Brasdor’s mode of operating, that the risk of secondary haemorrhage will be less than when the operation is performed accord- ing to the method of Hunter. The ligature, it is clear, has to fulfil a very different office, when placed on the capillary side of an aneur- ism, from that which is required of it when placed between the aneurism and the heart. Instead of stemming a strong current of the blood, until an internal clot is formed, and the sides of the artery adhere, the ligature, when placed on the capillary side of the sac, has to make resistance to the current of the blood during a few minutes only, for the blood re- ceiving a new direction, the circulation in the tumour becomes extremely languid immedi- ately after the ligature is applied, as is proved by the instantaneous diminution in the bulk of the aneurismal tumour. The blood, too, which is contained in that portion of the artery between the ligature and the sac, must also stagnate, and soon coagulate, thus form- ing a complete barrier to all future circula- tion, and rendering any further assistance from the ligature unnecessary. So much must this be the case, that were there any useful pur- pose to be served by it, the temporary ligature would be particularly applicable in Brasdor’s operation. In one of the cases of carotid aneurism, where Brasdor’s mode of operating was adopt- ed, and it is the only one which proved unsuc- cessful, the patient was lost from haemorrhage ; but it is important to remark, that the blood, in this instance, escaped from the capillary, and not from the cardiac orifice of the artery; the aneurismal sac, and the portion of artery