AMPUTATION. 158 the fingers, a little above their commissures, dissecting up, and penetrating into the arti- culations ; each phalanx is then disarticulated in succession. Fig. 11. Fig. 11 represents the amputation of the four fingers in their articulations with the hones of the hand; the ends of the metacarpals, with the divided tendons and blood-vessels are seen at the bottom of the wound. When the trunk of the digital arteries is not divided, the haemorrhage will be slight, and easily commanded by compressive dress- ing. Should any ligatures be necessary, they should be carried out at the inferior or cubital angle of the wound. The lips of the wound are united by straps of diachylon or isinglass plaster. The continuation of the flexor ten- dons by sheaths, through the palm of the hand, and the loose cellular tracks having the same direction, make it a point of the utmost importance to take proper precautions against the propagation of suppuration upwards to- wards the wrist and fore-arm. The dressings in these cases must not be confined to the wound alone, but must include the palm of the hand also. Compresses should be placed judiciously, so as to prevent the fusing of pus upwards, and these should be secured by a roller, which will be made to come down from the fore-arm and wrist. If inflammation should arise, the stump must be covered with leeches and poultice ; and if, in spite of these means, pus is formed higher up, there is no time to be lost; deep and free incisions must be made to give it ready exit wherever it is found collected. The remedy is a severe one ; but there is often no alternative but another amputation, or the loss of life itself. METACARPUS. The bones of the metacarpus may be am- putated singly, or the four that support the fingers may be removed at once, each or all of the fingers which they support being ex- tirpated with them. The operation may be performed, either in the continuity of the bones, or at the carpo-metacarpal articula- tions. Portions of them may also be resected; they may even be extirpated without entailing the loss of the finger with which they are continuous. Fig. 12. in the oval amputation of the middle finger in its arti- culation with the metatarsal bone; the incision on the palmar surface runs in the digito-palmar line, and cannot be seen in this view ; d, e,f disarticulation of the thumb from the trapezium, (see fig. 14,) by the flap method ; y, h,f disarticulation of the thumb by the oval method (fig. lfi): the digito-palmar incision between q,f, is not seen; k, i, a, oval method applied to the disarticulation of the metacarpal of the index- finger, from the carpus: the incision in digito-palmar line not seen ; n, o, l, the two dorsal incisions in the oval method for amputating the metacarpal of the little finger. The incision in the digito-palmar line, and which unites their extremities, is not seen ; m, g, or l, g, the dorsal incision for the amputation of the four fingers together, (see fig. 11); e, t,prolonged to z, dorsal incision in the amputation of metacaipals at the carpus; y, z, dorsal incision for amputating in the wrist-joint. Amputation of a single metacarpal bone in the continuity.—The hand being held in pro- nation, the surgeon transfixes it with a nar- row and well pointed bistouri, from the dorsal to the palmar side, a few lines above the diseased or injured part. The point of the knife keeps close to the bone as it passes, the skin is drawn to one side, and the incision is directed along the edge of the bone, till it comes out at the corresponding commissure of the fingers. The soft parts covering the untouched side of the bone are drawn from it by the left thumb and fingers of the surgeon or his assistant; the point of the knife is again inserted at the top of the wound, but at the opposite side of the bone, and the soft parts being drawn off from it, the second incision falls into the same line, dividing them again down to the commissure of the other side of the finger. The point of the bistouri is used