FRACTURE. 324- broken ends, whether they be opposed or placed side by side. To apply the solid parts of a false joint as close to each other as the case will admit, and so to retain them, will be found often efficient of itself, and almost invariably conducive to the success of supplementary measures ; but it must be ever remembered that the object is not mere rest. Rest is of no direct avail towards union, except when the growth of new bone is actually ready to solder the fragments. The motions which, like time, confirm a false joint of ligament or a new synovial cap- sule, are doubtless impediments to reunion ; and rest, which favours the atrophy of liga- ments or capsule, would predispose towards reunion in a passive manner ; but in this way it must equally favour the decline of ossi- fic inflammation, and even the atrophy of the bony fragments together. When the ununited ends are opposed late- rally, it would seem almost always practicable to press them firmly together by means of a tourniquet, which is both easily applied and regulated, or by any similar contrivance for making direct pressure. If much overlapping attends the non-union, some degree of extension may materially as- sist the other means of enforcing the close approximation of the fragments. By exten- sion, in such a case, the favourable influence of muscles is brought into operation, the tis- sues separating the disunited bones may be stretched, displaced, pressed upon, and ab- sorbed, and new surfaces are brought into contact ; and again, the broken ends, which are almost always expanded, more or less, by new bone, are thus most capable of being firmly bound together. In order to corroborate the statement, that defective ossification is often to be considered as a material and positive circumstance, it may not be amiss to remind the reader of those cases which are every now and then met with in post-mortem inspections,—where periostitis, instead of producing bone, leads to an irregular kind of absorption, with or with- out slight ossification, of the adjacent surface of bone. Hence we find bones worm-eaten superficially, without any attendant necrosis, though the ulceration of bone in the last and in the first case is the result of the same pro- cess, i. e. inflammatory softening, and then absorption. Of the cases in our table, 36 were treated by means of compression and rest, and 26 were cured ; viz. 9 of the femur, (4 not cured) ; 9 of the humerus (3 not cured) ; 7 of the leg ; and four of the fore-arm. “ The longest period,” says Dr. Norris, “ that the fracture had existed in these cases, was 22 months (femur, set. 27)*. The shortest period was 4 weeks (fore-arm, set. 12). The average period was 5 months and 12 days. 1 This case is not found in Dr. Norris’ tablo. No. 30 appears to have existed for the longest time of all the eases treated by pressure. The longest period required for a cure was five months (humerus, set. 24). The average period was 9 weeks. The shortest period was 9 weeks. In the 36 cases, in which pres- sure and rest were employed, accidents de- pending upon the treatment, and not termi- nating in death, are stated to have occurred 4 times — severe pains and inflammation 3 times, and excoriations once. The arrangement of the solid parts of the false joint must be carefully considered, with respect to the position to which they are to be restored, as I have already explained with reference to the cases in which the ends overlap each other. It may even happen, that forcibly retaining the fragments at an angle with each other may serve to induce the requisite inflammation and absorption. Fig. 312. Fig. 312. This is a vieiv of an old false joint of the. humerus after maceration. We hare somewhat of the appearance of a ball and socket, but the union was of solid ligamentous matter, and the surfaces are rough and not polished. The cup on the upper frag- ment is expanded by marginal ossifications, and the circtimference of the opposing surface, presents irre- gular exostoses. These are the remains of the re- uniting callus, yet there has not been sufficient ossifi- cation to seal up the medullary tube in either fragment; the openings are seen partially contracted. The upper portion is represented in an anterior view, the lower is drawn as it appeared posteriorly, in order to give the aspect of its summit, which had an oblupic surface presenting itself backwards and upwards. The spe- cimen is in the museum at Guy's Hospital, and teas obtained from the collection of the late Mr. Howship. The above figure is designed to show, that