709 CATARACT. older authors they were distinguished under the names of cutaracta marmoracea, fenestrata, stet/ata, punctata, dimidiata, &c.; distinctions which are not now in general use. When opacity of both lens and capsule is only partial, the patient’s vision is considerably improved when the pupil becomes dilated, either by a diminution of light, or by the ap- plication of belladonna. The consistence of the lens in capsulo- lenticular cataract is very various, being in some cases hard, in others, soft or fluid, like milk. When fluid, the capsule is, in some cases, a good deal thickened, and so much dis- tended and enlarged, that it presses the iris forwards towards the cornea, thereby lessen- ing the size of the anterior chamber of the aqueous humour. This pressure upon the iris causes the pupil to move very slowly, and to dilate very gradually by the application of belladonna, after which it does not speedily contract. In these enlarged cataracts light is not ad- mitted into the eye to the same extent as where the lens is of ordinary size. But in cases of fluid cataract, more especially when the fluid has opaque flakes floating in it, the state of the vision varies according to the position of these more opaque parts. In congenital cataract both capsule and lens are generally opaque. The lens is generally fluid, and the anterior capsule of a bluish white colour. (e) Cystic Capsulo-lenticular Cataract.—This term has been given to the cataract which is formed by the lens enclosed in its capsule being separated from its attachment to the ciliary zone and vitreous humour. It some- times takes place spontaneously, but is more frequently the result of a blow upon the eye. When this separation occurs in a case in which there has been cataract previously, a spontaneous cure has taken place ; a few rare cases of this kind are upon record. When the lens and its capsule are separated, lacerated, or dislocated by a blow, they soon become opaque. In cases of cystic capsulo-lenticular cata- ract, the opaque body has, in some cases, a tremulous motion 1; in other cases it floats about in the dissolved vitreous humour which surrounds it, quite unattached2. In other cases it is attached either to the ciliary zone or iris at one point of its circumference. Occasionally it falls forward, and either projects through the pupil into the anterior chamber, or passes into it completely, and produces inflammation of the cornea and iris. When cystic cataract occurs spontaneously from disorganization in the vitreous humour, the eye is in general amaurotic also. (/) Si/u/uose Capsulo-lenticular Cataract.— In this species of capsulo-lenticular cataract there is a diminution or entire absorption of the lens without a corresponding reproduc- 1 Cataracta tremnlans. 1 Cataracta natatilis, or swimming or floating cataract. tion, the capsule thereby assuming a shrunk and wrinkled appearance. Hence this form of cataract has been compared to a shrunk seed surrounded by a withered husk. A wound of, or blow upon the eye, by which the capsule and lens are penetrated or rup- tured, gives rise to this form of cataract by the admission of the aqueous humour to the lens. By this the lens is dissolved, and its reproduction interrupted. Congenital cata- racts are very often of this nature in conse- quence of the capsule having burst, and allowed the fluid lens to escape and become absorbed. (Whether it is possible for the lens to be ab- sorbed without the agency of the aqueous humour, leaving the capsule shrunk, but entire, is a point yet undetermined'.) (g) Bursal Capsulo-lenticular Cataract. — “ One of the rarest kinds of cataract, consisting in capsulo-lenticular opacity, combined with the presence, within the capsule, of a small cyst, filled with purulent matter, is styled cataracta cum bursa ichorem continente. This cyst has generally been found behind the lens, but occasionally in front of it. “ The opacity is orange; the iris sluggish ; the posterior chamber obliterated by the pres- sure of the over-distended capsule ; the per- ception of light indistinct; the whole habit of the patient weak and cachectic 2. ([h) “ There is a cataracta gypsea, or a change of the capsule into a kind of cretaceous substance ; it forms a thin kind of shell, brit- tle, and of a yellowish hue 3.” (i) Spurious or Adventitious Cataracts.— Adventitious cataracts, or those consisting of opaque matter effused in the anterior chamber into the aqueous humour, and on the surface of the capsule of the lens, are of frequent occur- rence. They are commonly of a whitish yel- low colour, always the consequence of inflam- mation, and the matter effused, in some cases, becomes organized, so that red vessels appear upon it, and it frequently forms a connecting medium between the iris and capsule of the lens. Cataracts of this kind may occupy the whole of the pupil, or only a part of it. In many cases they are accompanied with a contracted state of the pupil, both being the result of the same inflammation. The sensibility of the retina to light also is often impaired From the same cause. Several different genera and species of this cataract have been described, their names being derived from the nature of the effusion, or the form it assumes. Thus purulent, san- guineous, and pigmentous cataracts have been described, as also fibrinous, flocculent, clotted, and trabecular4. The pigmentous cataract is that which con- sists of a portion of the pigmentum nigrum, from the iris having become adherent to the anterior part of the capsule of the lens. This may have taken place either from inflamma- tion of the iris, or from a blow on the eye, 1 Mackenzie, p. 653. 5 Ibid. p. 654. 3 Lawrence, p. 407. * Mackenzie, p. 655. Middlemore, v. '2. p. 190.