CATARACT. 722 Indians, appears to be equal to that of the most experienced surgeons. It is a rude ope- ration, in the performance of which the differ- ent parts of the eye are much more injured than in operations with the common couching needle of modern surgery ; and the success which has attended it is, probably, not a little owing to the simple and abstemious mode of life which is general among the natives of India1 in preventing subsequent inflammation. ยง 14. Removal of Cataract by Division and Absorption. The removal of cataract by solution and absorption is founded on the fact of the crys- talline lens being removed from the eye in cases where its capsule has been laid open, by which the lens is subjected to the action of the aqueous humour. In order that the opaque lens be removed by this process, it is necessary that it be freely exposed to the action of the aqueous humour by its capsule being laid open. The process, however, is much accelerated by the lens being broken into fragments, and part of them placed in the anterior chamber ; it is also quicker the softer the consistence of the lens is. Hence it takes place much more quickly in young subjects than in those ad- vanced in life. This operation is performed by means of needles similar to those already described for the displacement of the lens. The operation may be performed by introducing the needle either through the sclerotic behind the iris, or through the cornea; the point of the needle being then applied to the centre of the lens, is to be employed in lacerating and cutting as much of the anterior part of its capsule as possible. The division of the cap- sule, however, must neither be too great on the one hand, by which the lens might be dis- located, and pass into the anterior chamber entire, nor the laceration too limited, after which the wound on the capsule might close and adhere ; so that the aqueous humour would not be admitted to the lens. The intention of this operation at first, is simply to lacerate the anterior part of the capsule without displacing the lens from its situation. When this is accomplished, if the lens be very soft or fluid, it passes into the anterior chamber, and renders the aqeuous hu- mour turbid ; it then becomes dissolved and absorbed with the aqueous humour. This operation causes so little injury to the eye, that it may be repeated once, or oftener, at intervals of two or three weeks. By these subsequent operations the lens is to be broken into fragments, and part of them pushed forwards into the anterior chamber, in order that they may be more readily acted upon and absorbed. See fig. 8. This mode of removing cataracts is more particularly adapted for fluid and soft cata- i See Transactions of Medical and Physical Society of Calcutta, vol. ii. racts. In cases of congenital cataract, and those of young persons from injury, it is also the most suitable. It is a more slow and gradual mode of removing a cataract, so that several weeks or months may elapse before vision is restored, and that only after three or four repetitions of the operation, where the cataract is of a firm consistence ; but it is less dangerous to the eye, and in favourable cases as effectual in producing a cure as any other operation. When the cataract is fluid the clearness of the aqueous humour and pupil will be restored in a few days after the operation. The re- moval of the cataract in other cases depends on its degree of hardness and the age of the patient, as well as the number and situa- tion of the fragments into which it is broken : the softer the cataract the more quickly is it absorbed. In young persons, and in those under 30 years of age, it is more quick than in older individuals ; and the absorption takes place more quickly when the portions are placed in the anterior chamber, and the more the cataract is subdivided. Inflammation following this operation re- tards the solution and absorption of the lens, which process does not proceed till the in- flammation has subsided. What has lately been called drilling a cataract, is just a modifi- cation according to particular circumstances of this operation. ^ 15. The Extraction of Cataracts. 1. Extraction through an incision in the Cornea. The removal of cataracts from the eye by a section of the cornea was first practised as a regular operation about the middle of the eighteenth century, and the merit of it is usually ascribed to a French surgeon named Daviel. This operation has been perfected, by the repeated improvements which have been suggested since the time of Daviel. The following is the mode of operating which is generally considered the best. The first part of this operation consists in making an incision through the cornea for the exit of the lens. The most simple mode of accomplishing this is by means of a knife introduced through the cornea. The knife at present in general use, at once the most simple and the best adapted for the purpose, is that which has been im- proved by Professor Beer of Vienna, and which, therefore, is commonly known by his name. This is a triangular-shaped knife, about one inch and a quarter in length, and about four-tenths of an inch in breadth at its broad- est part, (see fig. 18). As it gradually in- creases in breadth and thickness from its point backwards, it fills up the opening which it forms when pushed into the eye ; thereby preventing the escape of the aqueous humour before its exit from the eye when the incision is completed. The knives formerly used in this operation were more of a lancet shape, and by some