CATARACT. 720 ciliary nerves'. Injury of the iris is also to be carefully guarded against by turning the flat side of the needle towards it whenever it has penetrated through the coats of the eye. These operations may each be divided into three stages. 1st. The introduction of the needle into the eye ; 2d. the displacement of the cataract; and 3d. the withdrawing or re- moval of the needle from the eye. 1. Displacement or depression of the Lens through the Sclerotica.—Couching and Reclination. This operation is performed with one or other of the needles above described ; and the great object to be kept in view is, to displace the lens and imbed it in the vitreous humour, so that it will not reascend, and will be out of the axis of vision. Simply to depress the lens till it reaches below the pupil is not a proper or sufficient displacement of it. This would be wrong in principle, and found unsuccessful in practice. The needle is to be held like a writing- pen, having one of its cutting edges directed towards the cornea, the other towards the posterior part of the eye. When the eye has become steady, it is to be retained in its posi- tion by gentle pressure made upon it with the points of the fore and middle fingers, which are also employed in keeping the eyelids open, placing the middle finger upon the lacrymal caruncle, which prevents the eye from turning in towards the nose. The needle is now to be introduced through the conjunctiva, sclerotica and ciliary zone into the posterior chamber of the aqueous humour, at the dis- tance of about a line and a half from the mar- gin of the cornea, and having its point directed to the centre of the vitreous humour. When- ever it has penetrated through the coats of the eye, the needle is to be turned a little upon its axis till the direction of the cutting edges is changed to that of upwards and downwards, parallel to the flat surface of the iris. By this movement the risk of cutting the iris with the needle is avoided. Fig. 21 represents the needle introduced through the coats of the eye, with its point advanced to the front of the lens. If the needle is introduced at a greater dis- tance from the margin of the cornea than above specified, the retina will be in danger of being wounded ; if, on the other hand, it be introduced nearer to the cornea, the ciliary processes and iris may be injured. 1 The direction to introduce the needle either above or below the transverse diameter of the eye is that which is almost universally given ; but if the description of the long ciliary arteries by Mr. Wharton Jones, viz. that they run “ in the direction of the equator of the eyeball, sometimes, however, a little higher, sometimes a little lower,” and that “ at about a quarter of an inch from the iris they divide at an acute angle each into two branches, an upper and a lower*,” be correct, it is obvious that the surest way to avoid the branches of the artery is, as Dr. Mackenzie directs, to enter the needle exactly in the equator of the eve.—Ed. * Mackenzie on the Eye, 3d cd. p. xxv. Whenever the needle, introduced as above, has penetrated to the depth of about j of an inch, or as soon as its lance-shaped part has reached the centre of the lens, the first stage of the operation may be said to be com- pleted. Second stage—This stage, or the displace- ment of the lens, is effected after pushing the needle gently onwards into the posterior chamber of the aqueous humour, between the iris and lens, so that its point becomes visible in the pupil. In doing this, if the needle employed has a curved point, its convex part should be turned towards the iris, its concave part towards the lens, by which injury to the iris by the point of the needle will be pre- vented. The point of the needle is now to be placed upon the upper and anterior part of the cataract by depressing its handle. When the point of the needle has been placed on the proper part of the lens, the handle of it is to be moved upwards and forwards, by which the lens will be depressed into the vitreous humour, downwards, backwards, and towards the temporal side of the eye, nearly to the place between the insertions of the abductor and depressor muscles, and having its flat side laid towards the lower side of the eye. The situation of the lens, when so depressed, is shown in figure 22, c, as removed from its natural situation at a. When the handle of the instrument has been elevated somewhat above the horizontal, the cataract has been sufficiently depressed. If the depression was carried farther, the re- tina and choroid coat might be injured, and blindness from this cause produced. In performing this part of the operation, it is necessary that the lens be introduced into a breach of the vitreous humour, formed either by the lens itself pressed into it, or by the needle before depressing the lens. If the lens is not imbedded in a breach of the vitre- ous humour, and is only depressed between the ciliary zone and the hyaloid membrane, or between the choroid coat and the retina, it will either produce hurtful inflammation of the iris, retina, and choroid coat, or will re- ascend into its former position. After the lens is depressed, it should be retained in its new position by keeping the point of the needle upon it for a short time, perhaps about a minute, a practice which has been recom- mended to prevent its reascending. Another mode of performing this stage of the operation for the depression of the lens, is to introduce the needle to the posterior part of the lens, and make a transverse open- ing in the middle of the posterior part of the capsule. The point of the needle is then to be carried over the upper edge of the lens, which may be done without injuring the ciliary processes, on account of the space I have shown to exist between them and the lens, placed on the upper and ante- rior part of the lens reaching to the opposite side of it, and the lens depressed into the vitreous humour, through the opening made