418 ASPHYXIA. be reduced to a perfect state of inactivity, and their respiratory and circulatory functions may cease, but on again being called into the active state, these functions resume their wonted energy. Thus fishes after being frozen have manifested renewed animation when their natural element again became fluid ; and in an interesting paper in the Dublin Journal of Medical Science, “On Latent Heat and Vital Crystallization,” Dr. Greaves men- tions a remarkable instance of “ long suspended animation or latent life.” Dr. Macbride, of Dublin, having one day opened a chest in his museum, for the purpose of washing in warm water snail shells it contained, was called away for a time, and on his return found the animals creeping about on the sides of the vessel: these shells had certainly been in the collec- tion nearly forty years. In man, however, and in the higher orders of animals, a total suspension of respiration for a short period is fatal. In animals which hy- bernate there is a great diminution, but never a total suspension of vital action ; in the hamster the pulse usually beats at the rate of one hundred and fifty per minute; but it is reduced to fifteen in the torpid condition. Marmots in a state of health and activity per- form about five hundred respirations in an hour ; but in the torpid state these occur only about fourteen times during the same period, and are executed at intervals of four or five minutes of absolute rest, and without any considerable enlargement of the chest. The disuse of the locomotive powers obviously renders unnecessary those changes which are essential to the maintenance of their active condition ; and the organic functions, there- fore, need do no more than preserve the in- tegrity of their structures1. There are some few well-authenticated in- stances of recovery from suspended anima- tion after the respiratory and circulatory functions had ceased for an unusually long period. It is recorded in the reports of the Humane Society that a lady who died in Herefordshire was restored to life after inter- ment by a thief who attempted to steal a valu- able ring from her finger. The case of Mar- garet Dickson, who was executed at Edin- burgh in 1727, is amongst the best-accredited instances of recovery from suspended anima- tion produced by hanging. The remarkable case of Colonel Townsend has been frequently referred to in order to show the influence of the mind on the action of the heart, though the power which he possessed over it was evidently affected by changes produced in respiration. It is said that a few days before his death he could expire when he pleased, and by an effort he could come to life again! Before making the experiment on the day of his death his pulse was distinct, though small and thready, and his heart had the usual beat- ing. He composed himself, and lay on his back in a still posture for some time. His ' Carpenter’s Principles of General and Compara- tive Physiology. pulse sank gradually, till at last it could not be felt by the nicest touch ; not the least motion could be felt in the heart, nor the least soil of breath perceived on a bright mirror held to his mouth; not the least sign of life could be per- ceived. He continued thus for half an hour ; the motion of the heart was then observed gradually to return, and he recovered again, executed some business, and died the same evening 1! All these cases must be regarded as exceptions to the general law, and as de- pending upon causes which are probably be- yond the reach of human investigation. They are, however, sufficient to guard us against pronouncing any person irrecoverably dead before indications of decomposition have oc- curred ; and they also hold out inducements to persevere in our measures for restoring a person apparently dead under circumstances the most disheartening. ORGANS or RESPIRATION. The fundamental part of the organs of respi- ration in animals is a membrane, situated in such a manner that the circulating nutritious fluid may be in contact with one of its surfaces and the atmospheric air with the other; so that by this approximation those chemical changes may be effected which are the object of the function. This, the most simple form of respiratory organ, presents many varieties, and receives many accessary parts, as we as- cend in our examination of it in the higher classes ; all of which varieties and additions are subservient to the vital manifestations the being is destined to exhibit, and the respira- tory medium which it inhabits. In the lowest animals the skin is the only respiratory organ ; in many this membrane is prolonged in the form of respiratory lamellae and tufts. In the higher aquatic animals the respiratory appa- ratus assumes the form of gills, which are dis- posed in fringed laminae, and attached at the posterior and lateral parts of the mouth to four or five bony or cartilaginous arches analogous to ribs. The heart is so related to these organs that all the blood enters them before being sent to the system at large ; and by the connexion of the gills to the mouth streams of water containing air are constantly being propelled over their surface. In bony fishes the gills are protected by a valvular covering, called the operculum, which allows the water, after it has served the purposes of respiration, to escape at its posterior free margin. If one of these animals be secured to a line, and its head drawn with the stream, the opercula acting as valves will prevent the entrance of water in the retrograde direction to the gills ; and death in this case, being pro- duced by asphyxia, will much sooner occur than when the animal is killed by exhaustion, or by what has been called “ playing it.” In reptiles, birds, and mammalia, the respi- ratory membrane is formed into hollow vesi- cular sacs, situated in the thorax, and commu- 1 Wanlrop on the Nature and Treatment of the Diseases of the Heart, 1837.