CANCRUM ORIS. 696 accesses rarely occur, but the pulse is quick, and small, and weak. The skin gets cold, the bowels are relaxed, the stools foetid ; the child lies in a state of stupor ; the vital powers are exceedingly depressed ; gangrenous sloughs (analogous to those of the face) occasionally form in other parts of the body (particularly on the pudenda in females), and the patient sinks at last, exhausted by diarrhoea and by the progress of the gangrene. Causes.—This disease may be said to be peculiar to children, for the examples which have been observed in the adult arc ex- tremely rare. In a total of 1900 cases at- tended by M. Taupin at the Hotel-Dieu in the year 1837, only one case of gangrene of the mouth, affecting an adult, present- ed itself to him. The particular age at which it prevails most is differently stated by authors. The Germans say between the ages of two and eight, inclusive ; according to M. Taupin, from five to ten ; according to Rich- ter, from two to four years'. It rarely occurs in children at the breast. Boys appear to be affected much more frequently than girls; the proportion established by our own re- searches at the Children’s Hospital being as five of the former to two of the latter. The season of the year also exercises some in- fluence on the development of the disease ; it is more frequent during spring and autumn than in winter, and rarely occurs during sum- mer ; cold and moisture combined are the at- mospheric influences which seem to act chiefly as predisposing causes. M. Taupin has not been able to discover that children brought up to any particular profession are more sub- ject than others to gangrenous affections of the mouth. The disease sometimes occurs in healthy, robust, children, but it is then, usually, the result of some irritating cause, such as carious teeth, a burn or other injury of the mouth ; in the vast majority of cases it affects weakly, ill-fed children, who have been subject for some length of time to the action of de- bilitating causes. Amongst the chief of the latter we may reckon the imperfect nutriment of the children of poor parents, and the vitiat- ed atmosphere in which they constantly live ; hence we find that nine-tenths of the cases are furnished from the poorer orders of society. As general debility of the system is the chief predisposing element of gangrena oris, the disease frequently presents itself as a compli- cation or sequela of certain disorders accom- panied by debility ; in children convalescent from lingering disease, where an antiphlogistic treatment has been vigorously pursued, and finally, after the acute exanthemata or other diseases of the skin. The practice of the 1 In twenty fatal cases of the dry form, which we observed at the Children’s Hospital, Paris, the follow- ing was the proportion of ages :— Age 3 4 .5 7 No. of Cases. 9 5 Age 8 .. 9 ... 10 ... No. of Cases. 1 1 2 Children’s Hospital, Paris,shows how much the development of this disease is favoured by any thing which debilitates the constitution of the child. M. Taupin informs us that gangrena oris rarely complicates tinea, when the latter is treated in the usual way, but that it often occurs in children submitted to the debilitating treatment of the Freres Mahrons*. Towards the end of typhus fever, gangrene of the mouth occasionally occurs, and also in children long subject to diarrhoea or other chronic affec- tions of the intestinal canal, but from some peculiarity which we are unable to explain, it very rarely attends pulmonary consumption, even in its last stage. All writers have observed the remarkable connexion that exists between gangrene of the mouth and the acute exanthemata. It is not, however, true, as many authors state, that the development of the disease is favoured by irregularity, metastasis, or retrocession of the eruption. The gangrene as often attacks children labouring under a mild exanthema, as those cut down by the more acute forms, and more frequently during the convalescence, than while the eruption is out. Amongst the acute exanthemata, measles takes, by far, the lead as a predisposing cause: none of our writers have attempted to account for this well-known fact; but I would venture to sug- gest that it is, in some measure, connected with the pneumonia w hich attends measles more frequently than any other febrile exanthema. After measles comes small-pox, then scarla- • tina, hooping-cough, typhoid fever, and darte- rous affections1 2. M. Taupin has frequently seen gangrena oris in children affected with anasarca after scarlatina, and remarks (an ob- servation with which my own experience fully concurs) that it never supervenes in the course of acute cerebral affections, to which children are so much subject. I do not remember to have seen a single example of the disease ac- companying tubercle of the brain, although in many cases the child affected with cerebral tubercle dies in the last degree of marasmus and debility. These are peculiarities which the present state of our knowledge does not enable us to explain. A question of much importance, not only in a medical, but in a medico-legal point of view, presents itself here in connexion with the causes of gangrena oris. Is the disease ever produced by mercury ? Is the irritation of the mucous lining of the mouth, which accom- panies salivation, apt to terminate in gangrena oris ? To these questions we would answer, 1st, that sloughing ulceration of the mouth may, certainly, follow excessive salivation; but, 2nd, that the destructive process pro- 1 These gentlemen are authorized by the French government to treat all cases of tinea in the Parisian hospitals. 2 In twenty cases of gangrene of the mouth there occurred with or after measles, seven cases; small-pox, four; scarlatina aud measles mixed, two; scarlatina and small-pox, one; scarlatina, one; varicella, one; lichen, one; typhoid fever, one; tubercular peritonitis, one; indeterminate affection, one.