681 CANCER. (e ) Larynx.—Examples of cancer of this organ, especially of the primary kind, are ex- ceedingly rare. The following abridgment of a narrative by M. Louis of such a case, consequently possesses no ordinary interest. In a subject dying with extensive pulmon- ary emphysema and hypertrophy of the heart, “ the epiglottis was somewhat thrown to the left side, but healthy. Immediately under- neath it appeared a mass of white, hard, firm matter, creaking when divided with the scal- pel, shining, without distinct structure, ex- tending to the right and backwards between the thyroid and cricoid cartilages, not pro- truding above the superior border of the for- mer, and very little beyond the posterior edge of the arytaenoid, which was itself trans- formed into similar cancerous matter, without being, at least in its entire extent, continuous with the rest of the diseased formation. The cancerous mass, of a wedgelike shape, mea- sured three-quarters of an inch in thickness posteriorly, somewhat less iu front. Of creamy consistence in its interior, it lessened the calibre of the larynx materially on the right side, where the chordae vocales were destroy- ed ; a diminution increased by another similar but much smaller mass, placed under the left inferior chorda vocalis, which was non-ulcer- ated. The thyroid cartilage was healthy, the cricoid ossified throughout ; the arytaenoid muscle terminated on the right in the cancer- ous substance. The mucous membrane of the trachea was pale and of normal thickness and consistence ; the oesophagus healthy.” No other organ in the body contained cancerous matter. Nine months before the patient’s death the voice was affected without being completely lost; for the last four months, at least, he suffered from permanent aphonia. There was but little cough, but this had a clanging character ; the patient never com- plained of pain in the larynx, and upon two occasions only, when some drink escaped through the nostrils, did he suffer from dys- phagia. There was no irregularity noticed in the form of the neck ; the patient was gay, but emaciated, and the skin of an earthy tint. The existence of the disease does not appear to have been ascertained during life. To Professor Albers, of Bonn, the profes- sion is likewise indebted for two well related examples of primary encephaloid of this organ. But M. Trousseau has contributed a case more directly interesting to the surgeon than either of those referred to, as in this instance the medical attendants were obliged to have re- course to tracheotomy to avert imminent suffocation. The subject of the operation, a woman aged thirty-two, continued well for five months after its performance ; the canula being during thi3 period retained in the tra- chea, and the patient enabled, by closing the orifice of the instrument, to speak with very efficient loudness. Nine months after a tumour, detected at the left inferior part of the larynx at the time of the operation, sud- denly acquired a great increase of bulk, and sprouting out between the canula and the up- per edge of the wound, soon ulcerated and became the seat of frequent haemorrhage. Pleurisy with effusion supervened, and the patient died hectic. A multitude of tumours of various sizes, in bunches or isolated, almost filled the larynx, covering the epiglottis and part of the trachea, and, protruding exter- nally, formed a mass as large as a moderate sized apple ; these were of irregular form, and covered with livid, attenuated, and ulce- rated skin : numerous similar tumours ap- peared in the adjoining cellular tissue. The laryngeal mucous membrane between the tu- mours veas ulcerated and fungous ; the left arytaenoid ligament converted into the dis- eased matter ; the cartilages, broken into frag- ments, implanted in the middle of the tu- mours. The latter creaked under the scalpel when divided, were firm, and of the colour of the substance of an Indian chesnut. They possessed the humidity of encephaloid, though the smoothness and the colour of their divided surface assimilated them more to tubercle. The others were softened and converted into yellowish pulp. M. Cruveilhier pronounced the disease to be of cancerous nature. Bibliography.—-Morgagni, De Sed. et Caus. Morb. Ep. 28, cap. 9. Pelielan, Clin. Chirurg. t. i. p. 15. 1810. (This was in all probability a fibrous tumour, though described as scirrhous.) Albers, Ueber durch- bohreude Geschwure der Speiserohre und der Luftwe- gen, in Grafe & Walther’s Journal, bd. xix. s. 1. 1833. The same in the same, bd. xxi. s. 527. 1834. Louis, in Mem. de la Soc. Med. d’Observation. t. i. p. 169. Paris, 1837. Trousseau cy Belloc, Traite de la Phthisie Laryugee, p. 132. Paris, 1837. X.—Genital Organs. 1. Male, (a.) Penis.—Cancer of the penis is almost invariably of the schirrous species, and in the vast majority of cases commences in the glans or prepuce. Scirrhus may originate as a warty excres- cence, either on the surface of the prepuce, the glans, or the frasnum ; or infiltrate the glans, and convert that part into an indurated mass; or first attract notice, as a “pimple” which discharges an excoriating fluid, scabs and breaks out afresh, while ulcerations and induration advance at its base : or venereal ulcers may become complicated by carcino- matous deposition and fungate in the same manner as primary cancer. Encephaloid, which has very rarely been observed in this organ, exhibited itself in a case treated by M. Buret as a tumour, of the size of a pigeon’s egg, situated between the fibrous membrane and skin of the dorsum ; the interior of the growth had exactly the appearance of semi- putrid infant brain. M. Buret states that the fibrous sheath of the corpora cavernosa, and the erectile tissue of the urethra, may be the primary seat of the disease ; in whatever situation it originates it commonly soon involves the rest of the organ. Months may, however, pass over, before indu- ration, beginning in the glans, spreads to the