206 ANEURISM. Behind the internal malleole: — The W being bent, and resting on its outside, and compression being made on the femoral artery in the thigh, or against the pubis, a vertical incision is made, about two inches long, mid- way between the malleole and the tendo achillis. This incision, which divides the skin and subjacent cellular tissue, runs for the first inch parallel to the tendo achillis, and then curves gently towards the sole of the foot. The aponeurosis, which is extremely strong, is now seen stretched between that tendon and the edge of the tibia ; this being divided cau- tiously with the point of a bistoury, or on a director, the next step is to pass the needle under the artery and secure it. Fig. 87. Fig. 87. The posterior tibial artery ( a f with its satellite veins, occupies the centre of the ivound. b b, the ligature passed under the artery; c c c c, the section of the strong fascia which covers the vessels, and binds down the flexor ten- dons that pass be- hind the malleole. At the middle third of the leg, or between the ankle and the lower part of the calf:—In this situation the artery runs parallel to the tibia, and within half an inch of its internal border ; it lies in its own sheath, on the common flexor of the toes, and the long flexor of the great toe, covered by the fascia, adipose tissue, and integument. The incision in this operation must be between two or three inches long, running parallel with the internal border of the tibia. The aponeurosis covering the ves- sels being exposed, it should be divided with the usual precaution on a director. The ar- tery and its two veins are then seen in the relation already described, the nerve also lying to its outside. When the incision is made closer to the tibia, there will be but one plan of fascia to divide, but there will be also the risk of not coming with so much certainty on the vessel. If the soleus should descend more than usual, it can be easily raised, as soon as the incision is made. The ligature is placed as before. (No. 2, fig. 88.) Lisfranc recommends the incision to be made in an oblique direction, beginning at the inner border of the tendo achillis, and as- cending, under an angle of 35 degrees to the inner border of the tibia. As soon as the inte- gument and aponeurosis are divided, the soleus is detached from below, upwards, with the index finger, and the artery is thus exposed. At the upper third of the leg:—In conse- quence of the depth at which the artery is situated, and the thickness of the soft parts, the incision should be at least from three to four inches in length, commencing about an inch behind the internal edge of the tibia, 12 and descending parallel to that bone. The internal edge of the gastrocnemius is detached from the soleus, and raised in the posterior lip of the wound ; the fibres of the soleus itself are then divided longitudinally and to the same extent as the integuments. The inter- stice that exists between the soleus and ti- bialis posticus, and in which the artery runs, is recognized by the shining pearly appear- ance ot the aponeurosis that envelopes the vessels. The course of the artery being ob- lique from above downwards, the higher it is taken in its course, the nearer will it be found to the middle of the leg. The muscular mass being retracted by means of a blunt hook, the aponeurosis is divided on a director, and the artery being isolated from the accompanying veins and nerve, the ligature is placed on the vessel. (No. 1, fig. 88.) Fig. 88. Fig. 88. No. 1. The muscles of the calf are retracted, the white line seen on their border is a sec- tion of the strong fas- cia covering the so- leus; on the opposite side of the wound is seen the section of the fibres of the so- leus itself, a, the posterior tibial ar- tery, its satellite veins (c) running at each side of it; d, blunt hook; e e, the liga- ture passed under the artery. No. 2, a, the posterior tibial artery between its two veins, b; c, the nerve; e e, the ligature passed un- der the artery. This operation is exceedingly difficult, both on account of the great depth of the artery, and the contraction of the large and powerful muscles of the calf of the leg. In one case, to obviate th'is excessive contraction, Bouchet of Lyons was obliged to divide part of their fibres, and Mr. Guthrie, in another case pre- ferred cutting down on the vessel at once, di- rectly through the thick of this muscular mass itself. If the saphena vein should lie in the line of the first incision, care should be taken not to wound it. Sometimes the posterior tibial is altogether wanting, its place being taken by branches from the fibular, which is unusually large.— {Green.') Ligature of the anterior tibial artery:—In cutting down upon this artery, the external border of the tibialis anticus will serve as a guide for the incision. In some subjects, this