4 23 ASPHYXIA. on the foundation of these experiments, con- tinued to be generally received as correct, until, by the later investigations of Dr. Wil- liams, of Liverpool, and Dr. Kay, it was over- thrown. Bichat held that the presence of black or venous blood in the organs was in- compatible with the performance of their respective functions, and that especially the irritability of the brain and muscles soon perished under its poisonous influence. He injected into the carotid artery of a dog venous blood, and found that the creature ap- peared immediately to be agitated, breathed quickly, and seemed to be in a state of suffo- cation, similar to that of asphyxia. Its animal life became entirely extinct; the heart, how- ever, continued to beat, and the circulation to go on for half an hour afterwards ; at the end of which time the organic life ceased also. The same result followed when the blood taken from the arteries of an asphyxiated animal was injected into the carotid artery of another. From these experiments Bichat inferred that it was the presence of venous blood in the brain w'hich produced the insen- sibility that so speedily supervenes in asphyxia, and that the suspension of the functions of all the organs connected with the cerebro-spinal axis necessarily followed this paralysis of the “ cerebral powers.” But in addition to this cause of the annihilation of the organs of ani- mal life, in support of his doctrine he also contended, that the presence of the black blood in the muscles acted a prominent part ; to prove which he injected the crural artery of an animal with the black blood taken from one of its veins, and shortly after the move- ments of the limb became enfeebled, and in other instances wholly paralyzed. In like manner the functions of the muscles of organic life became arrested, but at a later period than those of animal life; the heart continu- ing its action, poisoning, as it were, every organ. At length the function of the central member of the circulation itself becomes ar- rested ; its coronary arteries become filled with black blood, and its structure penetrated with it ; and suffering from the same cause in common with the other parts of the system, it dies. The main point of difference, then, be- tween the theories of Goodwyn and Bichat lies in the former accounting for the arrest of the circulation, by supposing the action of the left heart to fail in consequence of not receiv- ing arterial blood, its proper stimulus ; and the latter contending that this arises from the heart itself, in common with the other organs, being penetrated by the deleterious black blood which eventually is fatal to its own action. Two fatal objections to the theory of Bichat have been brought forward, and have been arrived at by actual experiment. The records of the Humane Society show that re- suscitation, by the use of artificial respiration, has taken place after the individual operated upon bad been submersed as long as fifteen minutes. And experiments performed on warm-blooded animals have likewise shown that resuscitation may be effected even after they have been immersed in water for seven- teen minutes ; and this at a time when the action of their heart must have ceased. If, then, the cessation of the heart’s action arises, as Bichat supposes, from its structure being penetrated by venous blood sent to it by its coronary arteries, it is impossible to conceive how that action could be again restored by arterializing the blood of the capillary vessels of the lungs. Post-mortem examinations also of animals who have died from asphyxia, re- veal that the cavities of the right heart and the lungs are distended with dark blood, whilst the cavities of the left heart are com- paratively empty ; a condition of parts which is evidently at variance with Bichat’s views ; for the left cavities should also be found dis- tended, inasmuch as the dark blood continues to be sent to them, even to the heart’s ow'n destruction. The researches of Drs. Williams, Kay, and Edw'ards, have fully proved that many of the views of Bichat have been too incautiously re- ceived ; and Dr. Kay has embodied his views on the physiology, pathology, and treatment of asphyxia, in a volume specially devoted to that object. Dr. Kay views the organs of the body as being composed of a congeries of small blood-vessels, denominated, from their minuteness, capillaries. These vessels are possessed of peculiar powers, by which, in a healthy state, they only admit fluids of a cer- tain quality, and exclude those which are in- compatible with the functions of the part. They even resist the forcible introduction of other fluids, when injected with a syringe. In the lungs minute blood-vessels exist in an ex- quisitely delicate net-work ; in these vessels the venous blood is exposed to the influence of atmospheric air ; its qualities are changed; it loses its dark hue ; and acquires a bright red colour ; and hence Dr. Kay thinks it probable that the vessels in which the arterial blood circulates must differ, in their peculiar sensi- bilities, from those which propel the venous blood. He further conceives, that the laws generally observed to regulate the action of the small vessels in other structures, would be violated if the vessels w’hich usually convey arterial blood were also able to convey with equal facility venous blood, in every state of its changes, until it acquires its darkest colour. When air is no longer inspired, a considerable quantity of this fluid remains in the ultimate bronchial subdivisions ; and as long as this air contains a certain proportion of oxygen, the blood still undergoes its proper change in the pulmonary vessels, and the circulation pro- ceeds with its ordinary activity ; but as the proportion of oxygen diminishes, the blood ceases to acquire the bright vermillion colour, and becomes gradually darker, and the circu- lation progressively feebler and slower, “ un- til when venous blood enters those vessels which formerly contained arterial blood only, this degenerated fluid is no longer able to ex- cite their action, and the circulation stagnates