FISTULA, LARYNGEAL, TRACHEAL, AND THORACIC. 227 Q 2 Surgical proceedings can certainly have no sort of connection with, or influence upon, the occurrence of cicatrization of the broncho- pulmonary fistula. Broncho-pleural.—The occurrence of com- munication by ulceration of the pulmonary pleura between the interior of a bronchus and the pleural cavity is far from a very un- common occurrence in the course of phthisis. In the majority of cases such openings do not become fistulae properly so called, because death being the rapid result of the escape of tubercle and pus into the pleura, no time is left for them to acquire the characters of that species of lesion. In some rare instances, however, the patient rallies from the first shock of the communication, and even lives for a considerable period after it. In such instances the physical signs of hydro-pneumo- thorax and fistula are discoverable. The subject may acquire a considerable share of health, and suffer annoyance simply from the splashing of fluid in his chest. (See Empyema.) Broncho-cutaneous.—In this case, when a direct communication exists between the substance of the lung and the external surface, without connection with the pleura, air escapes directly from the interior of the bronchi outwards, without first passing into the pleural cavity. This is the consequence of adhesions surrounding the site of the per- forations of the skin and lung. Broncho-pleuro-cutaneous.—Here the adhe- sions either do not exist in the neighbourhood of the communication, or they are not suffi- ciently air-tight—if the expression be allow- able—to prevent the effusion of air through their interstices. Here there will be pneumo- thorax, while none will exist in the last described case. Both species of lesion are beyond the reach of surgical aid. Pleuro-cutaneous.— Wounds of the thorax, affecting the costal pleura, but unattended with injury of the lung, have been known to become fistulous. The site of the wound is, however, cut off from the great cavity of the pleura by adhesions, so that a small sac is, as it were, contained within the larger. A par- tial pneumothorax is constantly kept up here, increasing and diminishing with each inspira- tion and expectoration. The ordinary modes of curing fistulae, by renewing the borders, suture, &c. commonly fail here ; and in such case, the palliation of the morbid state may be accomplished by means of a metallic plate retained in situ by an appropriate bandage. Fistulae succeeding to the discharge, either natural or artificial, of purulent collection in the pleura—empyema—are often most fortu- nate lesions for the patient, as they permit the free egress of fluid from the chest, so long as it continues to be formed. When pus ceases to appear, these orifices sometimes close spontaneously ; in other cases they remain permanently open, giving constant passage to atmospheric air. In the former case, to at- tempt their closure would be to act in oppo- sition to the dictates of common sense, as well as of surgical science ; in the latter, it is, per- haps, wiser to leave the patient with his infir- mity (various contrivances for stopping the hole may be employed) than to expose him to the risks of an operation. It cannot be cer- tain even that its success might not be detri- mental. Broncho-renal.—Fistulous communications between the kidney and the lung are of such extreme rarity, that M. Rayer has been ena- bled to furnish but four examples of such lesion in his elaborate volumes on renal disease. Three of these cases occurred on the left side ; the remaining one, on the right, does not appear to have been absolutely proved to be an example of the lesion in ques- tion. All four terminated fatally. Of one of these cases, observed by M. Rayer himself, we shall enumerate the more striking particu- lars. A man, aged 18, submitted in 1821 to the operation for lithotomy, and had twro calculi extracted. He enjoyed good health till 1832, when he was seized with nephritic pains on the left side, and after a month’s treatment voided spontaneously a small calculus with the urine : he was thus a second time freed from his sufferings. In May, 1839, he came under the notice of M. Rayer, having long laboured under a return of the pain passing from the right kidney towards the bladder : the patient w as evidently much enfeebled. A stratum of pus of some thickness appeared at the bottom of the urine a few moments after its emission. The only aberration from the natural state discovered by auscultation wras a slight sub- crepitant ronchus at the base of the left lung posteriorly. On the 1st of June the patient complained of great difficulty of breathing, was much agitated, coughed frequently, and expectorated a great quantity of fetid matter ; similar expectoration occurred on the follow- ing day, when a large ronchus, almost re- sembling gurgling, was audible at the inferior part of the left lung. With the continuation of the purulent expectoration, the deposit of pus in the urine became much diminished in quantity, or disappeared altogether. The abdomen became tympanitic and painful; the stethoscope discovered distinct gurgling and cavernous respiration at the base of the left lung, while elsewhere the respiration was perfectly natural. The union ol these signs led M. Rayer to announce a renal abscess with the bronchi through the diaphragm. The patient died on the 18th. P- M. Examination.—Before the parts impli- cated in the disease were removed, an incision was made in the left ureter, and it was shown, by insufflation through a sound, that the ureter communicated with the lung. The inferior surface of the diaphragm, the posterior surface of the stomach, the spleen, and the upper part of the kidney, were united by strong old adhesions. All these parts being taken out of the body, the ureter was found to be dilated, thickened, and blackish, on the internal sur-