ANTHRAX. 328 one of extent; that of the former having sometimes a diameter and elevation of several inches. Causes.—Anthrax is usually described as caused by irritating applications to the skin, or as a common coincidence, if not a conse- quence, of gastro-intestinal irritation. The predisposing causes, however, are often much more obvious than the immediate. Habitual excess in eating, with the abuse of fermented liquors, and disorder or want of tone in the assimilating organs, are enumerated amongst the causes that produce anthrax. It is also sometimes observed in the termination of measles, small-pox, and fevers of a typhoid character. Generally speaking, it occurs most commonly in those parts of the integuments which are thickest and best supplied with cellular tissue, on the back of the neck, the back, the nates, the thighs, the thorax, abdo- men, axillae, loins, and jaws. Unlike the furunculus, of which several may exist toge- ther, or follow each other in succession, the anthrax is usually single, more especially if extensive ; there are, however, exceptions in this respect. The progression observed in the pheno- mena belonging to this affection seems to sanction their classification into different periods or stages. In the period of attack, a pimple is first observed, the basis of which, small at first, rapidly extends. It is often not at all painful at the outset, the sensation being merely that of itching. Sometimes a small tumour exists before any pain or itching is felt, and is discovered only by accidental touching. Confined in the beginning to the cellular tissue of the chorion, the inflamma- tion soon extends to the subcutaneous cellular tissue; the tumour which has the feel of brawn, gains on the surrounding surface in every direction, and seems almost immovable in the midst of the parts in which it has be- come developed. Over the most elevated points phlyctenes are formed, which breaking, give issue to a watery or sanious pus ; and the cuticle peels off. The strangulation of the dermic cellular tissue is now at its height; the pain has acquired a peculiarly severe and burning character, and symptoms of constitu- tional reaction become manifest. The appetite is diminished, or null; the sleep disturbed, or altogether prevented, the stomach and bowels are disordered; if the tumour be very large, the skin is dry, the urine high-coloured and scanty, the headach is severe, and sometimes delirium supervenes. Besides these features, which may be con- sidered as general and characteristic, there are others which are accidental, and conse- quent upon the situation in which the anthrax is developed : thus the pain and tension are so great as seriously to impede the functions of the neighbouring parts, as of deglutition, or respiration, when the tumour occupies the neck, or the walls of the thorax, and of defe- cation, when it is seated in those of the abdo- men, &c. Except in the very rare cases in which re- solution is effected at an early stage, this in- flammation runs its course until it terminates in gangrene, both of the fibrous areoles of the derm, and the cellular tissue contained in them. Once reduced to this state, they form a core, or disorganized mass, which by means of a new process now set up in the surround- ing parts, is ultimately eliminated. This is the commencement of the second period. The cellular tissue surrounding the core is engorged, lymph is effused, and pus, at first in small quantity, is secreted. If left to itself, the skin covering the tumour, deprived of its cuticle, grows thinner, till at last the fibrous cells are denuded, and the disorganized mass becomes visible through the fibrous par- titions, which still resist its expulsion. One after another, these little inflamed bands give way, and a large aperture is formed, through which a soft whitish or grey flaky mass of mortified cellular tissue slowly advances. The pus which accompanies it is not abundant, but exhales a peculiar and very offensive odour. Towards the end of this stage, and in propor- tion as the disorganized mass becomes de- tached from the living parts, the pus increases in quantity, and exudes from the sides of the eschar on the slightest pressure. The dead parts are at length thrown off in mass, or flakes, leaving a suppurating cavity, large and deep in proportion to the loss of substance. When the destruction of the subcutaneous cellular tissue is extensive, the muscles, ten- dons, and aponeuroses are denuded, and sometimes the fibrous sheaths themselves are seen perforated, and purulent sinuses extend beneath them in various directions. After the expulsion of the mortified mass, the en- gorgement and induration of the surrounding parts persist often for a considerable time. The edges of the solution of continuity are of a livid hue, deprived of cuticle, and thinned to such a degree, from the destruction of the subcutaneous cellular tissue, that they often perish extensively, or, if preserved, show but little tendency to cicatrize. In the third stage, the suppuration either diminishes gradually, granulations spring up from the bottom of the cavity, and cicatriza- tion proceeds favourably, or extending further, the suppurative action is prolonged indefi- nitely, and the patient is exhausted by the excessive discharge. The duration of the disease varies consider- ably, its progress in some being much more rapid than in others; generally speaking, however, it is in proportion to the violence of the attack, and the vigour of the patient. If the disease is extensive, the eschar is not formed till the twentieth, nor is it completely thrown off till the fortieth or fiftieth day. The suppuration and cicatrization may occupy, as has been already observed, an indefinite period. Prognosis.—When the anthrax is extensive and rapid in its progress, especially if the constitution is much shattered, the prognostic is highly unfavourable. The reverse of these conditions, it need scarce be added, will jus-