CANCER, PHYSIOLOGY OF. (il;3 manner of aortic aneurisms. Sixthly, serous infiltration is frequently observed round sub- cutaneous and glandular tumours; and it is stated by Cruveilhier, that in cases of cancer of the cylindrical bones, the medulla is not un- frequently saturated with serosity. Seventhly, inflammation almost invariably occurs sooner or later in the tissues investing carcinoma : it is either eliminatory or not in its effects. Of the former kind we shall have occasion presently to speak : among the less familiarly observed examples of the latter may be cited gelatiniform softening sometimes produced in the cerebral tissue subjacent to meningeal cancer ; peritonitis spreading from the seat of superficial carcinoma of the liver and giving rise to ascites ; pleurisy occurring as a conse- quence of the extension of hepatic cancer to the diaphragm. Eighthly, fibrous transforma- tion is sometimes observed. Cruveilhier has found the hepatic tissue between cancerous tumours converted into true fibrous substance, and relates a case of mammary carcinoma, in which the pectoralis muscle had undergone a similar change of structure. Ninthly, the ex- tension of the disease to contiguous textures by infiltration occurs in the case of the three species, but not with the same frequency. Encephaloid has been by some considered more prone to push the adjacent parts aside, than to convert them into matter like itself: Abcrnethy considered this a fact of sufficiently constant occurrence and importance to war- rant a complete separation of scirrhus and medullary sarcoma. But it is far from unusual for encephaloid of the cellular membrane of the limbs to spread to the adjoining tissues. Ce- rebriform growths originating under the peri- toneum spread to the bones of the pelvis, and even of the thigh : this progressive destruc- tion even of the hardest tissues was by Ruysch esteemed so important that he named the dis- ease ossivorous tumour : we have ourselves observed cases, one in particular, in which the infiltration of the muscular, consequent on the pressure of a tumour in the cellular tissue, was so perfect that the former seemed formed of fasciculi of encephaloid fibres. Such facts are so common that it is needless to multiply illustration. Dr. Hodgkin goes so far as to affirm that encephaloid is more prone than scirrhus to affect the surrounding tissues by infiltration. In this extreme opinion he is, we think, unsupported by facts. Dr. Bright1 coincides with this observer however, while Dr. Copland espouses the erroneous notion of Abernethy. The extension of scirrhus to contiguous textures is a very constant pheno- menon ; as it spreads, the scirrhous growth loses its circumscribed, rounded, moveable character. Perforation of the hollow viscera consequent on conversion of their walls into cancerous matter is an occurrence familiar to the clinical observer. Such destruction of the recto and vcsico-vaginal septa forms one of the most deplorable epiphenomena 1 Guy’s Hosp. Reports, vol. iii. p. 254. of uterine cancer. Mr. Travers and Dr. Hodgkin suppose that the extension of the disease to neighbouring parts is preceded either by absolute inflammation in those parts or by a state of irritation almost amounting to this : no observed facts are ad- duced in confirmation of this opinion. The process of adhesion to surrounding tissues need not be separately described ; it is effected by several of the changes just referred to, and will be further considered in describing the disease in particular organs. The albugineous tissues generally are remarkable for their power of resisting cancerous infiltration : a fact illustrated by the effect of fasciae on these growths, by the progress of meningeal cancer and by the occasional coexistence of the disease on both sides of the sclerotica, itself remaining unaffected. The arterial tissue in connexion with carcinoma commonly remains unbroken for a length of time, while the investing tex- tures undergo rapid destruction. But that the arteries are not always spared, appears from their occasionally giving way with dangerous facility, wffien ligatured in the immediate neighbourhood of cancerous formations. Fatal haemorrhage sometimes results, as Berard remarks, from extension of the disease to the chief artery of a limb, and haematemesis with a similar result has followed erosion of the splenic or coronary arteries in cancer of the stomach, &c. The adjoining arteries are sometimes dilated; Cruveilhier has seen name- less ramusculi, running to a mammary cancer, acquire the caliber of the radial. The veins in communication with these products undergo singular enlargement; but a similar effect is produced by other tumours. Numerous ob- servers have ascertained that these vessels become morbidly friable, a fact particularly insisted on by Recamier. Of the presence of cancer in their interior, we have already spoken. The condition of the adjoining nerves varies. Their tissue may retain all its normal characteristics ; it may be absorbed from pres- sure ; become cancerous; or the nervous sub- stance may alone be absorbed, while the neuri- lemma, thickened and indurated, assumes the characters of fibrous tissue. They have been more commonly observed to undergo encephaloid than scirrhous infiltration : Bre- schet has, however, found the areolae of their tissue infiltrated with a liquiform matter re- sembling that ofscirrhus. The excretory ducts of glands are sometimes stuffed with the mor- bid matter: the ureter has thus been found partially or wholly obstructed, and Muller has ascertained the same fact in respect of the galactophorous ducts. The condition of the lymphatic system will be examined elsewhere. So far w'e have described the regular phe- nomena of development of carcinoma ; but this tissue being, as the normal textures, the seat of nutrition, is like them susceptible of its disordered actions. The more important of these may be passed in review. Partial or general congestion may be either,