GASTRO-HYSTEROTOMI A. 413 ing to other authorities, the first well-authen- ticated case occurred in 1500. Francois Rousset, who was contemporary with Ambrose Pare, appears to have been the first who undertook to prove the possibility of saving both mother and child by this ope- ration ; and who, in a work which evinces great discrimination and sound judgment, en- deavours to show not only its utility, but, under certain circumstances, its positive ne- cessity. The work was published in 158J, and contains details of several cases in which the operation was performed with success ’. In the following year (1582), it was trans- lated into Latin by Caspar Bauhin, who added to it an appendix, with reports of several addi- tional cases. This work drew the attention of the profession, in a more especial manner, to the importance of the operation, although it was strenuously opposed by many distin- guished writers of that time, among others, by Ambrose Pare, and particularly by M. Alarchant, between whom and Rousset a sort of paper war was carried on for a considerable time. But the opposition which Rousset experienced, had only the effect of stimu- lating him to fresh exertions. Accordingly, in 1590, he published in Latin a much more enlarged edition of his work, and added other examples of the success of the operation. Still, however, it was opposed by various practitioners of acknowledged celebrity ; and Ambrose Pare, having only seen it followed by fatal results, was instrumental in causing it to be rejected by the College de Chirurgie of Paris. On the other hand its advantages were extolled in an equal degree by men of ability and experience, some of whom have endeavoured to prove that of those who had submitted to the operation, nearly one half had recovered. That the operation of gastro-hysterotomy is necessarily attended with a very consider- able degree of danger, and that, in fact, it often proves unsuccessful, is not to be denied. At the same time we must not overlook the number of well-authenticated cases to be found on record, in which the operation has been followed by the happiest results. M. Simon, in his “ Recherches sur I'Operation Cce- sarienne1 2," has investigated the subject with great labour and accuracy, has proved the possibility of operating with success on the living mother, and pointed out the peculiar circumstances under which it ought to be performed. The successful operations enu- merated by him amount to sixty-six ; to which may be added seven others mentioned in a note in the second part of his researches. Among these cases are four instances in which the same woman had undergone the opera- tion twice, two in which the same woman had undergone it three times, one five times, one six times, and one seven times. In con- 1 Fr. Rousset; Traite nouveau de l’Hysterotomo- tokic, oil Knfantemcnt Cacsarien. Paris, 1581. 2 Memoires de 1’Academic Royale de Chirurgie, tonics i. ct ii. Sequence, however, of the remote times in which many of these cases occurred, and the scanty information that is given concerning the greater part of them, they are viewed by some writers with no small degree of doubt. The cases enumerated by Baudelocque are compa- ratively of recent date, all of them having oc- curred since the year 1750. Dr. Hull, in an appendix to his translation of Baudelocque’s memoirs3, states, that the whole number of cases recorded in that and his two former publications amounts to two hundred and thirty- one ; that the successful ones amount to one hundred and thirty-nine, and the unsuccessful ones to ninety-two. Among the more recent instances of the successful performance of this operation, may be mentioned the following: one at Zurich, in 1817, by Dr. Locher4 ; one at Minden, in the same year, by Dr. N. Meyer5 ; one by Dr. Muller of Lowenburg in Silesia6; two at Nimes in Bohemia, by Lorinser, on the same woman, the first time in 1802, and again in 18057 ; one at Dahlen, in 1823, by Vonder- fuhr ; two by Bosch, at the hospital of Mae- stricht, in which both the women and children were saved8; one by MM. Horn, in 1821, by which the mother and twin infants were saved9; to which may be added, a most re- markable instance, in which the operation had been performed four times with successful issue on the same woman ; an interesting ac- count of which is given by Dr. Edward Charlton10. The patient, whose name is Adametz, underwent the operation for the first time, in June, 1826, when it was per- formed by Dr. Zwanck of Eddelack. The second operation was performed in the hos- pital at Kiel, in January, 1830, by Wiede- mann. The third operation was performed in the hospital at Kiel, in March, 1832, by Dr. Michaelis of that town, who gave an account of it in a small work which he pub- lished in 1833, on subjects connected with midwifery u. The fourth operation was per- formed also in the hospital of Kiel, by Dr. Michaelis, in June, 1836 : she left the hos- pital with a fine health}' child, on the 25th of August, two months after the operation. But, among modern practitioners, no one seems to have performed this operation so frequently, and with such extraordinary success, as Dr. Hcebeke of Brussels, who is stated to have performed it thirteen times, and thus to have succeeded in saving ten mothers and nine chil- 3 Two Memoirs on the Caesarean operation, by M. Baudelocque, sen. Translated from the French, with notes, appendix, &c. by John Hull, M.D. Man- chester, 1801. 4 Vide Med.-Chir. Trans, vol. ix. 3 Ibid. vol. xi. 3 Magazin fur die gesammte Heilkunde, 1828. 7 Siebold’s Journ. fur Gcburtshiilfe, &c. b. iii. st. 1. Frankf. 181.9. 3 Bibl. Med. 1823. 9 Journ. of Foreign Med. and Surg. vol. iv. p. 625. 10 Edin. Med. and Surg. Journal for April, 1837. 11 Abhandlungen aus dem Gebiete der Geburts- h'ulfe. Von Dr. Gustav Adolf Michaelis: Kiel, 1833.