12G ENCEPHALOCELE. Meckel1 quotes a similar case to that of Ruysch. Dr. Baron, of Gloucester, has re- corded a very remarkable case2 of hydro- cephalus interims, in which a tumour formed “ on the top of the head, over the posterior fontanelle,” which soon acquired the size of a goose’s egg. This soon diminished again, after profuse discharge of the urinary organs, which continued for nearly two months, when it ceased, and the head again enlarged, and the tumour reappeared. A discharge then commenced from the nostrils, and the head again became less. When the head was held forward, the fluid ran freely from the nostrils. The child died at the age of six months ; and Dr. Baron states, “ on uncovering that part formerly occupied by the swelling, I saw im- mediately what accounted for its origin, and explained many of the phenomena. A little to the right side of the falx the dura mater was ruptured, as was demonstrated by a well- defined circular opening, nearly one inch in diameter, which communicated directly with what was the external tumour and the inte- rior of the brain. Through this opening I evacuated between three and four pints of fluid, which was contained in a bag formed by both hemispheres of the brain. The expan- sion of the brain was so great, that round the margin of the opening of the dura mater, it did not equal the thickness of a shilling, and under the opening it had entirely disappear- ed ; proving that it had given way when the dura mater yielded, and allowed the fluid from the internal cavity to escape into the outward swelling. The cerebellum was en- tire, and the organs of the different nerves seemed unimpaired. I could not well exa- mine the ethmoid bone, but I easily passed a probe through it into the nose.” Dupuytren was once called to remove what was supposed to be a nasal polypus, but dis- covered it to be a cerebral protrusion ; and another case of encephalocele, which had passed through an opening in the ethmoid bone into the nasal fossa, was mistaken for a polypus, and operated on by Richter. The knowledge that such a mistake might be made, weuld be sufficient to put the surgeon on his guard, and then there would not be much probability of error. For the marks of polypi see Polypus and Nose. Prognosis. — When the hernial tumour con- tains a very large portion of brain, death alone can be expected ; for the children pass their miserable existence in a state of stupidity and continual suffering. They have frequent vo- miting, are in a state of habitual irritation, nutrition is imperfectly carried on, they fall into a state of marasmus, and die worn out, or under an attack of convulsions. If life be pro- longed, the skin, distended by the tumour, inflames and ulcerates, the sac is opened and the contents denuded, serum escapes, and the child is worn out by the continual discharge, or is destroyed by the inflammation which 1 Hamlbuch dcr Pathologisclien Anatomic, tom. viii. p. 51, 1820. 5 Mediro-C'hirurgicsxl Transactions, vol. viii. p. 51. follows the opening of the tumour. When the tumour is small, we have seen from the cases of Guyenot, Bennett, and Adams, that patients may reach adult age ; but the prog- nosis will be in all cases grave, as we shall ac- knowledge after considering the results of surgical treatment. Treatment.— Our knowledge of the treat- ment of encephalocele is very limited ; and the subject is rendered still more embarrass- ing by studying the classics of our professional literature, or the w'ritings of authors on the diseases of infants. Methods of treatment are recommended, which, from the unanimity of those who advise their adoption, we should suppose to be almost infallible cures ; while recorded experience proves that they are fre- quently inapplicable, and often useless in cases where their application is possible. Thus the success of compression, so highly vaunted, has rarely been proved in practice ; and with re- gard to surgical operations, we cannot consult two authors without falling on the most con- tradictory precepts, and neither based on any- thing like proof from facts. We shall seek to avoid this error, and endeavour to discover the truth, by grouping together facts which have been well established by accurate ob- servers. Recorded cases of encepbalocele, in which surgical operations have been performed, are not numerous; owing partly to the rarity of the disease, and probably also that the self- love of some surgeons has not allowed them to publish cases in which their practice has proved unsuccessful. There are sufficient, however, to enable us to form a general view of the results of the treatment both of ence- phalocele and hydrencephalocele ; 1. by liga- ture ; 2. by incision or excision ; 3. by punc- ture ; and 4. by compression. 1. Treatment by ligature. The first case, in which a tumour of the head, certainly a hydrencephalocele, was treated by ligature, is recorded by Forestus1. He describes it, “ De phlegmatica excrescen- tia valde magna instar talpse, aut strumae, vel potius hydroceli, in collo posteriori, apparente in infante puella duorum mensium.” This tumour was surrounded by a ligature, which was tightened after some days without causing pain. But in fourteen days an eschar formed at the summit of the tumour, and serum began to escape. The child died exhausted in a few days. Most authors of the seventeenth and eighteenth centuries, express, in general terms, their objections to the ligature of tumours of the head, which have a communication with the interior of the cranium ; and we may, therefore, suppose that they had grounds for believing it to be dangerous ; but no specific fact in illustration is recorded, until Schneider 2 related a case of encephalocele, complicated by haematocele, treated by ligature of the tumour, which was situated in the middle of 1 Loc. cit. 2 Cliirurg. Geseli. Chemnitz, 1784; obs. 63, pt. 10.