791 CLUB-FOOT. by the artificial contrivance that has been de- scribed ; it is increased gradually till it over- comes the contraction of the gaslrocnemii muscles ; the bones are restored to their natu- ral situation with respect to each other; and the patient is enabled to set his feet flat upon the ground ; this may be called the first stage of the cure. “ The progress of the alteration in the gas- trocnemii muscles took place nearly in this manner :—On the first application, the mus- cles were extended as much as they would admit; they were then in a state of tension ; when the spring was put in action, more ten- sion was produced ; after a short time there was pain, increased circulation, and a tendency to inflammation. When this took place, the action of the spring was diminished, till that tendency disappeared, and the spring again brought into action ; this was so managed, that, after it was once brought into action, the extending power never ceased till the patients were able to stand flat on their feet; this, in the three cases related1, occupied about eight months in each case ; in that time the gas- trocnemii muscles were lengthened more than four inches, and increased in bulk to the ex- tent that has been described ” The second stage of the cure includes the res- toration of the lengthened extensors, stretched ligaments, and redundant skin to their natural proportions. To effect this, continued pres- sure was employed. “ I contrived an instru- ment, which, when placed upon the foot, pre- vented it from passing in any way from the position in which it was when the patient stood upright upon it; when this was done, I made compresses of soft materials, but of so much firmness, that they would keep the form I had given to them. These compresses were made of forms that would allow them to press the soft parts close to the bones ; these soft parts were guarded with a sedative plaster, to pre- vent any irritation of the skin ; the compresses were then carefully applied in their proper situations, and, over the whole, a tight bandage in the nature of a laced stocking, which was always laced as tight as possible.” Manipulation of the limb was afterwards continued for some time, entirely to restore the natural action of the muscles ; and many examples of the success of this method are given in other papers. Mr. Sheldrake applied the same principles to the treatment of every variety of true club-foot, adapting his springs, so that they' might act distinctly upon those muscles, the contraction of which was the source of the distortion. However rational the principle on which it is conducted, the mechanical treatment alone must, at best, be tedious and uncertain in its results, and should only now be resorted to in slight cases, soon after birth, or where the objections to an operation by the patient and friends are insuperable. Valuable hints for the management of those 1 Lancet, vol. xiv. pp. 271. 361. 406. cases, after division of the tendons, may, never- theless, be derived from the details of the mechanical treatment. A steady and active perseverance in warm bathing, friction, and manipulation, will alone do much to restore contracted muscles to their natural condition. M. Holtz, in the paper cited1, records an instance, in which the re-establishment of the equilibrium of the muscles, in a case of con- genital varus, was effected simply by great attention and efforts on the part of the boy himself, unaided by mechanical means. He took the greatest pains, in walking, to plant the sole of the foot firmly on the ground ; and as he was in the habit of carrying heavy weights, the cure was thus accomplished be- fore he reached the age of twelve years. 2. Treatment of Club-Foot by section of the tendons of contracted muscles, and completing the cure by mechanical agency.—Until within the last few years, the wounding or division of a tendon was regarded as an occurrence likely to be attended by very serious conse- quences. It is now fully demonstrated that the mischief occasionally resulting from such an accident is an effect of other causes super- added to the injury inflicted on the tendon. It may be ascribed with much more justice to the lesion or exposure to which the sheath of the tendon, or the cellular tissue in which it is imbedded, is subjected. Suppuration and sloughing of the cellular tissue, impli- cating more or less the tendon and its sheath, may certainly take place after section or rup- ture of the tendo achillis. Such was the case in several of the early instances in which the tendo achillis was divided for the relief of club-foot. Delpech’s operation2 may be cited as an example strongly illustrating this. When unaccompanied by injury to the sur- rounding parts, and judiciously treated, a divided or even a ruptured tendon speedily unites, and no evil consequences ensue. Direct union does not take place between the extremities of a divided tendon. “ The surrounding cellular membrane,” says Mr. Mayo 3, “ is thickened by an infiltration of coagulable lymph, which forms a bed that con- tains and adheres to the divided ends. This bed of thickened membrane shapes itself into a callus, which coheres inseparably with the ends of the tendon, and acquiring strength and firmness after a time, shrinks to the size of the neighbouring tendon, and assumes its white colour and fibrous character.” The experiments performed by Von Ammon upon dogs and horses, and the observations of Zeis and Bouvier, confirm Mr. Mayo’s statement. Von Ammon found that a considerable sepa- ration of the divided extremities of the ten- don did not prevent a solid and perfect re- union, but the process was under such circum- stances more tedious. (See Tendon.) The first recorded attempt to cure club-foot 1 Repertoire General, t. iv. • He l'Orthoniorphie, t. ii. s. 327. 3 Outlines of Human Pathology, p. 120.