82 EMPHYSEMA. costal pleura being blocked up by blood or otherwise. The mediastinum is now pushed towards the opposite side of the chest, the diaphragm driven downwards, the functions of the opposite lung seriously interfered with, and the symptoms of pneumothorax intensely manifested. The expansion undergone by the air from the elevated temperature of the sur- rounding parts, possibly hastens this result. t. Let us next suppose the fracture to be complicated with a wound of the integuments. Here the causes of pneumothorax will evi- dently be double ; air rushes into the cavity of the pleura during inspiration, both through the wound in the lung and that in the walls of the chest. The lung collapses with pro- portional rapidity, and lays the groundwork of subcutaneous emphysema ; while the actual production of that disorder will further de- pend on the characters of the external wound. If this be straight, wide, and gaping, the air admitted into the pleura during each inspira- tion finds an easy exit through it during ex- piration, and by its escape temporarily dimi- nishes the pneumothorax—to be increased to its previous amount during the succeeding expansion of the chest. This facility of egress prevents the air from being effused into the cellular membrane. But if the wound be long, narrow, and tortuous, or obstructed with pieces of torn muscle, clots of blood, &c. the passage of the air outwards is rendered next to impossible, and emphysema induced in the same manner as if no external wound existed. Fractures of the clavicle and sternum are not commonly complicated with injury of the pulmonary tissue, and hence rarely give rise to emphysematous swelling ; when the latter does appear, as in a case described by Ur. A. Russell, the mechanism of its production is precisely the same as in the instance of frac- tured rib. £. Emphysema may follow a severe con- tusion of the chest unattended either with fracture of the ribs or external wound. A lad, setatis 14, was thrown forcibly from a cart against an iron catch in a gate-post ; a con- tusion without external wound was the result. In three or four hours after the accident Gooch found him universally emphysema- tous ; the performance of paracentesis did not prevent him from dying on the fourth day. Upon examining the parts after death, a lacerated wound of the lungs, pleurae, and intercostal muscles was discovered, but no fractured rib. Here the subcutaneous em- physema was produced by precisely the same process as if the lung had been wounded by a broken rib. Cases of similar character, but terminating by recovery, are related by M. M. Menard and Maingault. All three sub- jects were children, the absence of fracture is accounted for by the comparatively great flexibility of the bones in early life. t]. The description we have given of the effects of fractured rib with external wound applies to penetrating wounds of the chest with lesion of the tissue of the lung. If tire wound be straight and wide, no emphysema may occur, as a direct route is thereby af- forded for the escape of the pleural air; if on the contrary it affect the opposite charac- ters, accumulation of air in the cellular mem- brane follows. Emphysema is for these rea- sons not a very frequent complication of wounds with a knife or broad sword, but com- monly appears after deep stabs with bayonets or small swords. J. Bell, Begin, and others assert that it is peculiarly frequent in gun- shot wounds, in consequence of the tumefac- tion of their edges being most marked at the external opening: Professor S. Cooper on the other hand affirms that it is not nearly so common after these injuries, particularly when the ribs are not splintered, as after stabs. B. The mechanism by which emphysema is produced in cases of penetrating wounds of the chest, implicating the costal pleura, but unattended with any solution of continuity in the lung, is somewhat different from that we have just explained. During the first inspi- ration succeeding the injury, collapse of the lung takes place, and also aspiration of air from without through the parietal wound : the same alternate expression of air into the cellular membrane and aspiration of a new quantity into the pleura, already described, regularly follow, as soon as the lung is re- duced to its positive volume. The rapidity with which perfect collapse of the lung is effected will depend on the freedom of com- munication of the external air with the pleural cavity, and this manifestly on the characters of the external wound. These characters exercise a very curious influence on the production of emphysema, when, as in the injury now under consideration, there is no wound of the lung. If the wound be deep, oblique, and tortuous, the pressure of the external air evidently tends to force its sides together, and thus to interfere with the free entry of air into the pleura, but the same condition will as clearly oppose the egress of any air that may have made its way into the thorax ; hence a wound of this kind will be at once favourable and unfavourable to the production of emphysema. The converse is true of a short, wide, and direct opening ; such a wound promotes the occurrence of emphysema during inspiration, but during expiration this ill influence is done away with by the easy outlet afforded the aspired air. Emphysema is a rare consequence of pene- trating chest-wounds without injury of the lung, and never becomes extensive ; but no attempt has been made, so far as we are aware, to ascertain with precision its relative frequency. Hcnnen, in speaking of wounds of the thorax of all descriptions collectively, asserts that they do not induce emphysema in one case out of fifty. There can be no doubt that a fractured rib is its most ordinary cause ; but as this eminent practitioner did not offer the proportion just stated, as an