677 CANCER. ulceration, &C., provided the affection occupy the lower part of the bowel. It is to be rcgTetted that in his recent calculation of the relative frequency of organic stricture of the rectum in the two sexes, M. A. Berard 1 has not specified the nature of the morbid contraction in the forty-three in- stances, of which twentv-t(iree occurred among women, and twenty among men. Judging from the general laws of the disease, it is pro- bable that cancer is here, as elsewhere, more frequent in the female sex ; and such is the result of Mr. Copeland’s and Mr. Mayo’s ex- perience. Desault’s commonly quoted esti- mate is unworthy of confidence, as well from the small number of cases on which it is founded, as the uncertainty of the nature of those cases. Cancer of the rectum is com- monly a disease of adult and advanced age ; yet it may occur in extreme youth: Mr. Mayo has observed ulcerated scirrhus in a subject of twelve years old. Dionis2 speaks as if “ fungus ” of the rectum were an acknow- ledged effect of paederasty ; the error of this notion is now ascertained. Various conditions of the gut, dependent on chronic inflammation, are liable to be confounded with cancerous stricture. Thus, hypertrophy and induration of the submucous and other tissues of the bowel (simple stricture) produces almost all the local symptoms of the disease under consideration ;—this affection is however generally seated higher up in the canal towards the sacro-iliac synchondrosis, is less painful, and more readily influenced by treatment. Simple chronic ulcer of the rectum, as of the mucous passages generally, when in the course of cicatrization, is accompanied with fibrous formation and contraction of the tissues engaged in the process : a case of this kind, related by Cruveilhier, was attended not only by the local but the general symptoms of a cancerous affection ; the distinction under these circumstances would appear to be scarce- ly possible during life. However, the similarity to cancerous disease is not always so perfect as in this instance, and the affection may com- monly be recognised by physical examination. This appears to have been the fact in a case described by Dr. Hodgkin3. It is a curious fact, that the cure of such ulcers in this situation entails much more dangerous effects than the original disease. Chronic inflam- mation, with perforations of and partial sinuses in the bowel, is distinguished by examination with the finger. Spasmodic stricture is an affection more written about than observed; of course we exclude from this observation spas- modic contraction of the sphincters, with or without fissure, a condition as painful in its effects as easily distinguished by examination. (See Anus.) Paralysis of the gut is recog- nised by the masses of faeces of natural ap- pearance, which are sometimes discharged ' Gaz. Med. Mars, 1839. 1 Corns d’Operations, p. 320. 3 Blight’s Reports, vol. i. p. 117. after accumulation in the dilated bowel, and by the absence of constriction as discovered by the finger and bougie. Enlargement of neighbouring parts, as of the prostate or uterus, displacements of the latter organ, tumours of the mesentery or ovary, urinary calculi', a pessary2, may produce extreme difficulty in defecation : careful examination of all the parts concerned is requisite to assure our- selves of the nature of the obstruction. In the medical treatment of the disease, our most important object must be to facilitate, as far as possible, and by the most gentle and unirritating means, a regular action of the bowels. Simple enemata of warm water, with gentle laxatives, will commonly suffice for the purpose for some time ; at a more advanced period, medicines of greater activity may be absolutely required. Mr. Mayo advises a few drops of laudanum to be taken after each evacuation. But however necessary it may ultimately become, there is a strong objection to the use of opium, whether in the form of suppository or otherwise, in its tendency to increase constipation and retard the periodical evacuation by which some patients are re- lieved : large doses of hyoscyamus are prefer- able, so long as they produce a sufficient anodyne effect. Leeches to the sacrum or perinaeum, mitigate pain and lessen spasm. Sir B. Brodie advises the use of linseed oil in in- jections, either pure or combined with lime- water, for relieving irritation, and alkalies with balsam of copaiba internally. Upon the advisability of attempting to di- late carcinomatous stricture of the rectum with bougies or other contrivances, opinion is di- vided. Although we find Begin affirming that he has been very successful in the treatment of this affection (when so situated as to be unfit for removal with the knife), by the ap- plication of leeches through the speculum to the diseased part, and by compression, it is just to add, that the majority of practitioners, especially of our own country, regard the plan not only as useless, but injurious. And it argues ill for M. Begin’s performances, that the case he has chosen to illustrate them, was probably not carcinomatous, and under all circumstances, only temporarily benefited. There can be little question, however, of the propriety of using the bougie as a palliative, when the obstruction begins materially to affect the excretion of the faeces ;—necessity then points to its use. In more fortunate cases its occasional employment is sufficient, producing a degree of relief which carries the patient successfully through for some days, or even weeks: in other instances it becomes necessary to introduce it before each evacua- tion. This, after a while, excites irritation, sometimes such as the patient cannot endure ; and when the cancer is ulcerated, and the seat of tender, soft, and haemorrhagic fungous growths, catheterism of the tube becomes im- ’ Tulpius, Obs. Med. lib. iii. cap. 2. 2 Marquct, Traite de l’Hydropisie, &c. p. 160. 1770.