247 ANEURISM. An aneurism arising from a wounded ar- tery, sometimes, though rarely, undergoes a spontaneous cure ; but when it does occur, the curative process is effected, as in the true aneurism, by the formation of a coagulum within the sac ; and if the wound of the artery be allowed to close, or if the aperture be of greater extent and the tumour of larger bulk, the canal of the artery may be completely obliterated. The treatment to be employed in cases of this kind will depend on the extent of the wound, the size of the artery, and the dura- tion of the disease. When an artery has been merely punctured, as sometimes happens in the operations of phlebotomy and cupping, a very moderate degree of pressure, made by means of a small but thick compress placed upon the wound, will be sufficient to prevent the outpouring of the blood, and to keep the edges of the wound in contact. If, from a similar accident, a tumour ha3 formed by the effusion into the cellular mem- brane surrounding the artery, compression may be successfully employed, provided that the blood within the tumour be evacuated before the compress is applied. It is only, however, in aneurismal swellings, caused by very small wounds, or in large wounds of the smaller arteries, that compres- sion can be successfully employed ; indeed, when ineffectual, it is often followed by bad consequences, such as inflammation of the wounded soft parts adjacent to the artery, and extensive suppurations, which render all fur- ther local means to stop the bleeding abortive ; and the patient’s life can be saved only by amputation of the limb, if from the site of the wound such a measure be practicable. All the other means which have been recommended for the cure of the true aneurism, by promot- ing the coagulation and consolidation of the tumour, ought here to be also employed. Before resorting to more severe measures, the haemorrhage from a wounded artery may some- times be arrested by pressure, applied upon the bleeding orifice with the point of a finger ; and if it does not succeed, pressure employed on so limited a space, and so well regulated, can never be followed by any of those bad consequences which are produced by the pressure of bandages and other mechanical contrivances. There is indeed little difficulty in applying pressure with the finger on a wounded artery in such a manner as shall cause a temporary cessation of the haemorrhage. The external wound, if not sufficient to admit the introduction of a finger, must be enlarged, the coagula of blood infiltrated in the cellular membrane carefully removed, and when the precise site of the wound of the artery is ascertained, pressure is to be made upon it with the point of one finger, sufficient to check the bleeding, and this is to be conti- nued hour after hour, or even for days, by employing a succession of assistants, till the risk of haemorrhage is permanently removed. In this manner I have succeeded in stopping the bleeding from a wounded artery of very considerable size, when, from its site and other circumstances, it would have been a severe and hazardous operation to have secured the bleed- ing orifices with ligatures. At the same time that compression is em- ployed to arrest haemorrhage, it ought to be remembered that the formation of a tem- porary barrier to the flow of blood, and the subsequent adhesion of the wound, are mate- rially promoted by a languid state of the cir- culation, a state which can always be induced in a requisite degree, by the abstraction of blood, or by the influence of the tartrate of antimony on the action of the heart. When these means have failed in curing the disease, one of two operative proceedings may be now adopted, the sac of the aneurism may be freely laid open, and the two orifices of the wounded artery tied with ligatures, or a liga- ture may be placed on the trunk of a vessel, at a distance from the wound. To the first of these modes of operating there are several serious objections; the infiltration of the cellular membrane with blood, the displace- ment and sanguineous discoloration of the soft parts, and the depth of the wounded artery, while they render the operation, in many in- stances, extremely difficult, affect also, in a serious degree, the patient’s chance of reco- very ; for the parts adjacent to the wound have already become inflamed, the patient’s mind has been greatly excited by the circum- stances attending the accident, as well as the nature of the injury, and his constitution may have sustained a great shock by a succession of harassing bleedings from the wound, and painful attempts that may have already been resorted to, for the purpose of arresting them. When the artery is superficial, it will, how- ever, in general, be best to expose it and place a ligature both above and below the wound. Some surgeons think that this proceeding should be adopted wherever the situation will admit of it, even when the vessels to be tied are deep-seated. Dupuytren, on the other hand, thinks that a single ligature, placed on the cardiac side, will be sufficient in most instances, especially if assisted by compression, except where the anastomosing vessels are large and numerous. The other mode of proceeding consists in placing a ligature on the trunk of the artery on the cardiac side of the aneurism, and at as great a distance from the tumour, as the par- ticular case will admit of. Whenever this mode of operating for false aneurism is prac- ticable, it offers the same advantages as are to be derived from the Hunterian operation in cases of true aneurism. But arteries are occasionally wounded where it is inexpedient to tie the trunk of the vessel, as, for instance, the gluteal, and, in such cases, it becomes ne- cessary to adopt the first mode. It is a point of great importance, however, before any incision is made to expose the wounded vessel, that the surgeon should take