CANCER, ANATOMY OF. 59G a globular shape ; when placed in circum- stances which facilitate its lateral and obstruct its peripheric development.it acquires a fungi- form figure, as is observed where the matter escapes from a dense into a soft tissue, or through an ulceration in the skin. Stratiform carcinomatous matter is chiefly met with in the subserous cellular membrane in layers of various extent and indefinite arrangement. It frequently appears in the form of small circular patches, varying in size from that of a pin’s head to an inch or more in diameter, is in this state of a creamy consistence and most com- monly met with under the pia mater and pleura pulmonaris. Ramiform, is the term used by Dr. Carswell to denote the arrangement of the adventitious matter in the veins, lym- phatics, and lacteals. Encephaloid growths acquire a larger size than almost any other morbid productions. Abernethy mentions the case of a patient who had a tumour of this description, as large as the head of an adult, in each groin. Such di- mensions are by no means uncommonly met with, as the experience of large hospitals teaches. Professor Berard observed an ence- phaloid tumour in the thigh of a female, as large as the body of a full grown man. Veins larger than the index finger ramified in the exceedingly attenuated integuments investing it. On the other hand, the opposite extreme of smallness is occasionally seen, and may be always detected when tumours are in the nascent state. There is scarcely a tissue or organ in the body, in which encephaloid matter has not been observed, including in this proposition, its development by extension from contiguous parts. Thus it presents itself in the cellular, the mucous, the serous, fibrous and synovial, the venous, arterial and lymphatic, the cutaneous, the gingival, the cartilaginous (costal and arytaenoid cartilages), the fibro-cartilaginous (nares, pinna, epiglottis), and the ligamentous tissues. We have never observed this morbid matter in tendon or in the intervertebral tis- sue ; but Mr. Travers speaks of its occurrence in the former structure. M. Littre presumes that the articular cartilages, in consequence of their supposed non-vascular character1, are exempt from the disease ; he probably means from its primary development. We have not met any distinct example of the transformation of these cartilages, however, or of the synovial membranes or bursae2. In the osseous tissue encephaloid forms one of the varieties of os- teosarcoma; the medullary substance, of the 1 For a luminous discussion of the question of the vascularity of articular cartilage, we beg to refer to the article Articulations. Some further observations have been recently made on the subject by two Dutch experimentalists, Professor Sebastian and Dr. Schumer. See Brit, and For. Medical Review, vol. vii. p. 535. 2 In the elaborate essay recently published by Bielkiewicz on the anatomy and pathology of the the subcutaneous bursa;, no mention is made of carci- nomatous disease of these structures. See L’Experience, Nos. 108, 113,115, 1839, for a notice of this author’s treatise. brain frequently, of the nerves more rarely, contains growths of this description ; as do also the muscles of voluntary motion, the heart and involuntary muscular tissues gene- rally. Among the viscera it will be sufficient to notice the liver, vesicula fellis and ducts, spleen, pancreas, kidneys, lungs and bronchi, stomach and intestines, uterus, ovaries, Fallo- pian tubes, testicles, prostate, and bladder, as the observed seats of this species of carcinoma. These tissues and organs are not all equally disposed to become the seat of encephaloid growth: the common cellular membrane, the testicle, the liver, and stomach, are perhaps distinguished by the frequency with which this species of cancer originates in them. Par- ticular parts of organs, also, are more liable to be attacked than others: different patholo- gists have observed that in encephaloid of the stomach, liver, uterus and vagina, the pyloric region, the surface and vicinity of the sulcus umbilicalis, the cervix and the anterior wall are respectively most prone to the morbid transformation. Dr. Carswell remarks that of the tract of small intestine, the duodenum and commencement of the jejunum are perhaps alone subject to the affection ; and that in the large intestine it is exclusively confined, when primary, to the sigmoid flexure and ileo-csecal valve : but the rectum furnishes an obvious exception to the latter statement. Double organs are not often simultaneously affected. The nature of the tissue in which the cere- briform mass originates, affects, in some in- stances, the phenomena of its growth and composition. Thus when the disease springs from bone, it is not unusual to find mammillary osseous vegetations, spiculae, or lamellae pro- jecting from the normal tissue into the hete- rologous formation: these sometimes con- stitute a solid stroma for its deposition. The cancerous matter is not, however, in these cases altered in nature or proper- ties. Parts in a state of chronic induration are not exempt from the occurrence of cancerous infiltration. The inodular tissue of cicatrices following the removal of carcinoma, and, as it would appear from a few well authenticated facts, pseudo-membranes formed on the free surface of serous tissues, are likewise capable either of undergoing encephaloid transforma- tion, or of forming the basis, whence fungating growths of this character may spring. Among accidental productions, erectile tumours (nae- vus maternus, aneurism by anastomosis, &c.), are peculiarly prone to become the seat of encephaloid formation ; hence, no doubt, arose the confusion that long prevailed, particularly in France, in the application of Hey’s term, fungus hsematodes ; it was indifferently used in speaking of fungating encephaloid and the disease nowr referred to. By Dr. Hodgkin this striking feature in the pathology of adven- titious erectile tissues, is ascribed to their low vitality ; by Walt.her and Recamier to per- sistent irritation from internal and external causes : both notions are purely hypothetical.