ARTHRITIS, TRAUMATIC. 401 tranquil, that an actual examination alone convinces the surgeon of the extent of the mischief. The exposed surfaces of bone and soft parts seem at this time to be benumbed, so that no pain is complained of, even on rough handling. The second stage com- mences by the ordinary symptoms of fever, thirst, restlessness, a hot skin, a full and ac- celerated pulse. The fever rapidly advances to a formidable height, the wound becomes exquisitely painful, and the progress of the case during this stage very much resembles that of a simple wound, as already depicted. In the third stage severe inflammatory symp- toms have died away, but have left the patient feeble, and exhausted with a large suppurating wound—the cartilage ulcerating, the bone carious, and hectic commencing. This is the outline of ordinary cases, but extraordinary cases occasionally occur in which an admirably balanced constitution prevents the develop- ment of any alarming symptoms, and the in- jury inflicted is repaired with very trifling disturbance. A favourable termination is not very com- mon when the joint is left to itself, and con- stitutional treatment only adopted. The pa- tient very often does not survive the second stage, but is destroyed by the intense fever which is then developed. Should this not happen, he usually lingers through a period of weeks, or even months, but at last dies ex- hausted by an incessant suppuration, which is maintained by diseased bone and ulcerating cartilages. There is, indeed, not an incon- siderable number of cases on record, in which this third stage has ended more happily. Thus Hunter1 relates a case in which a ball entered the knee-joint at the outer side of the patella, traversed the knee-joint, and came out through the external condyle. Light dressings only were applied, and though se- vere inflammation came on, the patient re- covered. Larrey2, in his second Spanish campaign, tells of a Mameluke who received, besides other injuries, a sabre-cut in the left arm, which divided the skin, the olecranon, an articular portion of the humerus, the corre- sponding ligaments, and some branches of recurrent arteries. The wound was lightly dressed, and although some “ grave accidents” were developed in the progress of the case, 1 the patient recovered, and preserved some of the mobility of the joint. Sir A. Cooper3 re- lates two cases in which persons recovered from compound fractures of the patella, fol- lowed by suppuration of the joint; and in the i same work, Mr. Travers reports an example of compound fracture of the articular extre- mity ot the femur extending into the knee- j joint, from which, although the external con- dyle, with part of its articular surface, sloughed away, the patient recovered with a free use 1 Hunter on the Blood, Inflammation, and Cunshot- I wounds. 2 Mcmoires de Campagnes et Chirurgie Militaire, tom. iii. 3 Cooper and Travers’s Surgical Essays, part ii. VOL. I. of the joint. These cases, however, form the exception, not the rule ; and he who be- lieves in the pithy axiom of Dionis, ‘ It is better to live with three limbs than to die with four,’ will not allow them to guide his general practice. If he did, he would find, to use the phrase of Dupuytren, that he lost more lives than he saved limbs. The morbid appearances presented by wounded joints of the class now under consideration, are, with the addition of the injury to the bone, pre- cisely similar to those already described under the head of simple wounds. In an advanced stage, the resemblance to the conditions pro- duced by idiopathic disease is very striking. “ In the dissection,” says professor Thomson ‘, “ of many of the knee-joints after amputation, I found that the balls, in passing through the joints, had fractured the ends of the bones, and had occasioned, in the synovial membranes and cartilages, appearances very similar to those w hich occur in scrofulous affections of the joints. The cartilages were loosened in some instances from the bones, in others they were partially absorbed, and in the divisions of the cartilage produced by fracture, the edges were rounded off by absorption: the syno- vial membrane was much thickened in sub- stance, and covered by soft, velvet-like, spongy granulations.” There are three methods of treatment which are applicable to wounds of joints complicated with injury to bone. 1. The case may be treated as a simple wound of a joint. This method is most ap- plicable when the patient is young, v'hen the joint is of comparatively small size, when the injury to the bone consists in a clean division, by a sharp instrument, or in a simple fracture, and w hen the soft parts are not extensively injured. In no case ought it to be adopted where the bone is so much injured as to for- bid all hopes of its again forming part of an articular cavity, where surrounding soft parts are so contused as to render their sloughing away extensively, certain, where the previous health and habits of the patient have been bad, or where he cannot be placed under the circumstances of regimen and control favour- able to a successful issue of the severe strug- gle that must ensue between nature and the disease. If, how'ever, the patient be young, and of a sound, well-balanced constitution, if the circumstances be favourable, and the wound such as has been described, it is fair to try what can be done towards preserving the limb in all its integrity. The method of treatment pointed out as applicable to simple wounds of joints should be vigorously prose- cuted ; and the writings of Hey, Cooper, Larrey, and Guthrie furnish reasons sufficient for entertaining hopes of a favourable termi- nation of such cases. Too great circum- spection, however, cannot be shown in decid- ing on this course ; for there is scarcely a 1 Thomson’s Report of Observations made in the British military hospitals in Belgium. Edinburgh,