ABORTION. 16 and had a narrow pelvis ; she precipitated her- self into a deep pit, with a view of causing abortion, and avoiding the Caesarean operation. She died in consequence of her w'ounds, but did not abort. A few years since, a young woman in the fourth month of pregnancy threw herself from the fourth floor of a house in Finsbury Square, and fell on the pavement; many of her bones were fractured—she sur- vived a few hours, but did not miscarry. Numerous examples are given in works on forensic medicine of the difficulty of inducing criminal abortion by violent means, though the destruction of the life of the woman is a common consequence of such attempts. According to the latest physiological obser- vations on the placenta, this organ adheres to the uterus by means of the decidua, (Velpeau, Breschet, Lee, Radford, Ramsbotham, &c.) which is directly applied over the apertures of the uterine sinuses. If the circulation of the blood is increased throughout the system, or in the uterus by means of irritation in, or determination of blood, to that organ, the consequence will be, that the increased afflux of the sanguineous fluid in the uterine sinuses will separate the decidua over them to a greater or less extent, blood will be effused between the uterus and decidua, and the pla- centa will be partially or wholly detached from the uterus. If the decidua be lacerated, the blood will escape, in the early months, be- tween it and the chorion, and in the latter months, between it and the amnios, or it will lacerate the latter and pass into its cavity ; or the effused blood may find its way between the nterus and decidua, arrive at the uterine orifice, and escape through the vagina. It by no means follows, however, that in every case of abortion there is necessarily a separation of the placenta at the commencement; but when this does not happen, there must be detach- ment of some portion of the decidual mem- brane from the parietes of the uterus. Com- pression on the uterus, or a blow, may immedi- ately produce separation of the placenta or rup- ture of the umbilical cord, or of the membranes enveloping the fcetus. But, in general, the oc- casional causes of abortion induce congestion in the vessels of the uterus, which is often suc- ceeded by hemorrhage from separation of the placenta or decidual membrane, which excites uterine contractions, in consequence of the inconvenience or irritation to which the organ is subjected. Thus Klein has remarked that abortion is most frequent at the return of the menstrual periods. Some of the causes al- ready enumerated excite spasmodic contrac- tions, which are transmitted to the uterus by sympathy, and others act upon the fcetus itself. It often happens that a vivid mental emotion of the woman, is instantaneously fol- lowed by more or less motion of the foetus, and even by its sudden death. I have known many women, in whose statements the fullest confidence might be placed, who declared that their infants ceased to move at a certain time. It is true, however, that the infant may be born alive in some cases in which the same declara- tion had been made. It is generally remarked, that abortives very rarely effect the object for which they are intended, while they often de- stroy both mother and fcetus. Many such cases are recorded in the works on Medical Jurispru- dence. “ I have,” says M. Desormeaux, “ been consulted many times for acute and chronic metritis, severe metrorrhagia, and cancers of the uterus, which were caused by the criminal means employed to procure abortion.”—Diet, cle Med. The induction of criminal abortion is felony, and is never resorted to by respect- able medical practitioners, except in cases of irreducible retroversion of the uterus, and certain diseases of this organ and the ovaries, as in these diseases the women will lose their lives, unless the uterine contents are expelled. It is, I believe, the opinion of medical prac- titioners in all nations, that the induction of abortion is perfectly justifiable in such cases. Dr. Ashwell’s paper on the Induction of Pre- mature Labour in cases of disease of the ovary, when rapidly advancing in consequence of the determination of blood to the uterus, may be referred to with advantage.—Guys Hospital Reports, No. 2, April, 1836. It would, how- ever, be better in such cases to avoid preg- nancy, and that the parties should live sepa- rately. Many authors, since the time of Aristotle, defend moderate sexual intimacy during preg- nancy, among whom are Mauriceau and Dionis. “ For myself,” says this last writer, “ I have had a wife who has been twenty times pregnant, and brought me twenty in- fants, of which she was happily delivered at the full period of pregnancy, and I am per- suaded that the caresses of a husband are not injurious 1.” This is true as a general propo- sition ; but I have been consulted in many cases in which abortion and premature labour were excited by frequent or excessive nuptial enjoyment. While writing this article, I was called to a case of abortion between the second and third month, induced by this cause. Every one has observed, that most of the mammi- ferous animals refuse copulation after concep- tion ; but physiologists admit that a moderate use of it does not appear to be injurious dur- ing human pregnancy. Aristotle even sup- posed that towards the end of gestation it was a means of facilitating parturition. There ap- pears to be some reason in this remark, as I have known parturitions occur two and three weeks before the expected time, which were said to have been induced by conjugal em- braces. In fine, a moderate use of this func- tion is not injurious during pregnancy, though it should be avoided when abortion is feared or threatened. “ Pour conserver le fruit de vos chastes plaisirs, Reprimez desormais vos amoureux desirs. Au feu qui vit en vous un autre feu peut nuire, Et ce qu’Amour a fait, Amour pent le detruire.” Tillet, Dolley's Thesis, 1826. There are, moreover, special causes which favour the occurrence of abortion: irritative 1 Traite General des A ccortchemens, <j e.