343 ANUS. tion be indispensable, as it is thereby ren- dered more easy of performance and less dis- tressing1 to the patient. We apprehend, however, that this system of plugging is admissible only when the en- gorged tissues have relieved themselves by the formation of false membranes, in the same manner as takes place in croup, or otherwise, by activity of treatment, been reduced from an acute to a chronic state. Then, indeed, it may be wise to pause before operating, for it is not unlikely that distant parts have been so impressed by the vivid action which has prevailed in the rectum, that positive inflam- mation might be excited in them by the action set up to reunite the severed struc- tures. But precisely the same reasons which lead us to doubt the applicability of bougies where there is active inflammation ivithout fissure, lead us to discountenance a proceed- ing, which is the same in principle, in similar cases with fissure. It sometimes happens that when the ope- ration has been performed, the pain and pro- minent symptoms are relieved for a time, and the incision heals kindly until nothing but the original fissure remains, and this obstinately refuses to cicatrize. A train of symptoms similar to, but of a more subdued character than, the former ones, appear, and a second and even third operation may be attended with a like result. In most instances of this kind the indisposition to heal may be attribu- ted to defective general treatment, and more will be done to remove it by a judicious in- quiry into the condition ot the several por- tions of the digestive apparatus, and acting on the information so obtained, than by any local treatment; though it is desirable to en- deavour to produce at the same time a more healthy surface by the employment of topical means. So long as irritation is absent the ioduret of lead will be found to be serviceable in that, as it is in all other unclean sores ; but, when the soft feces begin to produce pain, the nitrate of silver, or, still better, the potass® hydras will destroy its irritability and favour the formation of a healthy surface. CONGENITAL IMPERFECTION. The congenital imperfections of the anus, which it is sometimes in the power of surgery to rectify, are occlusion and imperloration ; and, the probability of being able to render such aid, should impress on all persons en- gaged in the practice of midwifery, the neces- sity, not only of examining the infant at its birth to ascertain that there is an aperture, but of repeating the examination on the next and following days, that no doubt may exist that the aperture performs its function. Occlusion.—On examining the fundament of new-born child, the indication of the anus may, as respects situation and form, be satis- factory ; but subsequent events may prove that it is occluded so completely, as to offer as much resistance to the expulsion of the meconium as though it was imperforate; a resistance which, if not overcome, will destroy the child by the accumulation of fecal matter in the intestines. The sufferings of the infant, manifested by its cries, hiccough and the swelling of its belly, and the non-expulsion of meconium, render it imperative that the anus be explored. It will then be discovered that the anus is contracted, not only at its verge, but to some distance above it, as though both the external and in- ternal sphincters were in preternatural ac- tivity. This occlusion is sometimes so per- fect that it is difficult to insinuate a large-sized probe ; and in a case we recently witnessed, it was sometime before the small end of a blow-pipe could be introduced, which was no sooner accomplished than the meconium was blown with considerable violence into the face of the explorer ; showing thereby, that this affection is dependent on the condition of the sphincters, and not on the mere narrowing of the tube. This condition of the muscles might, in most cases, be overcome by the employment of bougies, increasing their size according to the success obtained ; but the urgency of the case is too great to admit of the adoption of so tardy a mode of relief, especially when, by a simple operation, the obstacle may be speedily overcome. A conductor being introduced, a bistoury should be carried in its groove to the distance of about an inch; and then drawing the handle outwards, so that the extremity of the blade may press in the groove of the conductor, it should be drawn obliquely downwards and out- wards, towards the tuberosity of the ischium, in such a way, that the lower part of the in- cision may extend about a quarter of an inch from the anus. The same plan should be pursued on the opposite side, and the incised parts dressed with spread lint. Great stress is laid by some authorities on keeping a plug in the anus, to prevent the reunion of the sides ol the wound. This might be of some service if the incisions were so slight as only to serve for present exigen- cies ; as then the remainder of the cure must be effected by dilatation. But when the ope- ration has been properly performed, there is no occasion for a plug, inasmuch, as the cut having passed across the direction of the mus- cular fibres, they will retract and drag the faces of the incision away from each other, so that if the object were to reunite them it would be difficult to accomplish it. There is a modification of this occlusion in which, by its not being so complete, the me- conium and fluid feces during infancy are per- mitted to pass ; and it is not until such time as the dejections acquire a certain consistency that the imperfection is discovered. Even the entire period of childhood may be passed without very aggravated suffering ; but when the age of adolescence arrives, the pain attend- ing the dejection of the feces is intolerable, and that in proportion to their solidity. As in the former instance, immediate relief is