GANGRENE, HOSPITAL. 408 the benefits of the tonic influence of bark, the practitioner has at the present day the advantage of avoiding its prejudicial operation on the stomach and bowels, by administering it in the form of quinine. The regulation of the diet of those affected with hospital gangrene is a matter of primary importance, both in reference to its direct influence on the vascular system, and to the deranged condition of the alimentary organs, which is so frequent an accompaniment of the disease. In the first attack of hospital gan- grene, abstinence from animal food ought to be strictly observed : the diet should consist of light, easily digested, farinaceous sub- stances, or, rather, indeed, as Dr. Boggie ob- serves, an almost total abstinence should be enjoined. In the progress of the disease, when the febrile symptoms abate, the diet may gradually be made more nourishing by an admixture of animal food. The drinks should be of the weakest kind, such as tea, water- gruel, and lemonade ; and ripe fruits, such as oranges, may be freely used. Local treatment.—There are few diseases in which a greater variety of topical applica- tions has been employed, than in hospital gan- grene. Those of any efficacy may be com- prised under the following heads ; viz. 1, se- datives ; 2, stimulants; and 3, escharotics. 1. To the head of sedatives may be referred the practice of topical blood-letting. We have already referred to the considerations which caused practitioners to look with great dis- trust upon this practice in hospital gangrene, and to the considerable change in opinion which has recently taken place in respect of it. M. Begin expresses his conviction that “ when hospital gangrene commences locally with intense burning heat, painful and consi- derable swelling round the wound and on its surface, it is proper to have recourse to local bleedings. A mass of observations collected in Catalonia by MM. Guillaume, Algenie, Paridis, and other military surgeons of great merit, during the last Spanish war, attest the happy results produced by local bleedings, and especially by the application of leeches round wounds attacked with hospital gangrene. The authority of these facts is such,” adds M. Begin, “ that, in the circumstances men- tioned, it would be almost unpardonable not to have recourse to this mode of practice, at least at the commencement of the treatment, and during the great violence of the inflam- matory symptoms.” So long as the local inflammation continues violent, the constant application of cold ivashes, such as simple water, reduced artificially below the temperature of the atmosphere, and solu- tions of sugar of lead, seem well calculated to subdue the inflammation, and consequently to allay pain. In very warm weather cold applications are always the more agreeable to the feelings of the patient. To obtain all the advantages from the sedative effects of cold, cloths dipped in the wash employed should be applied to the part and kept constantly moist. It has, however, been objected to the employment of solutions of sugar of lead, as local applications in the inflammatory stage of hospital gangrene, that though in some in- stances they seem to retard the progress of the gangrene, yet, in producing this effect, they always render the separation of the sphacelated parts more tedious. The use of poultices in cases of hospital gangrene seems generally to have proved un- satisfactory to practitioners. “ In the reports of the navy surgeons,” observes Dr. Thom- son, “ these applications are said, and the remark agrees with my own observation, to have accelerated the progress of the dis- ease.” This author states, however, that among the wounded of Waterloo treated in Brussels, in whom the hospital gangrene, it will be remembered, had an inflammatory character, the milder applications, such as the common and carrot poultices, were in general found to answer better than more stimulating substances. “ Poultices of all kinds,” says Dr. Boggie, “the common emollient, as also the fermenting, carrot, turnip, and charcoal, being always applied warm, have appeared to me in general to aggravate the pain ; and though they be applied cold, they soon ac- quire the temperature of the body ; they are therefore not the best application in this com- plaint, and are objectionable also on account of their weight.” Mr. Leslie mentions, that in some cases in which he tried the steam of hot water, it seemed to give relief by its soothing effects, but for want of a proper apparatus, he had not an opportunity of making the application assiduously. 2. Stimulants.— After the inflammation has abated, or in cases in which it has been from the commencement very inconsiderable, should the sloughs continue to adhere, some stimulating application may be made to the wound, with a view to promote their detach- ment. Oil of turpentine, either alone or mixed with equal parts of resinous ointment, so as to constitute what is familiarly called warm-dressing, is, says Dr. Thomson, “ the local application on which, from the practice of the French surgeons, as well as from the effects which I have seen follow from its use in a very considerable number of cases, I should be most disposed to rely.” Dr. Boggie speaks favourably of an ointment composed of eight parts of unguentum resinosum and one part of ung. oxyd. hydrarg. rub. On such occasions he has also found the diluted nitric or muriatic acids, or the citric and acetic acids, good applications; and in the same cases, he says, a solution of arg. nitratum will be found very useful. M. Delpech conceives, that in the ulcerous form of hospital gangrene, in which topical applications can be made immediately, and without the interposition of the putrilaginous mass that exists in the pulpy form, the disease may in some cases be successfully combated by stimulant applications. Thus he has seen