452 AXILLA. sioned by the passage of a railway-carriage over it, and marked by a deep depression, but without any laceration of the integuments.” Beneath the great pectoral muscle we perceive the lower and front part of the little subcla- vius muscle, which lies along the border of the clavicle ; it is covered by a pretty strong aponeurosis, which extends downwards over the axillary vessels and nerves. When it reaches the lesser pectoral muscle, it divides into two layers; one passes in the front, and the other behind it; they again unite, and the fascia is finally inserted into the skin of the arm-pit. The upper part of this fascia unites with the deep cervical aponeurosis ; it forms a sheath for the subclavian muscle. This por- tion of the membranes is strong and resisting ; it is continued to the coracoid process, to the capsular ligament of the humerus, to the deep fascia of the arm, and to the cartilages of the first, second, and third ribs. It is this portion of the aponeurosis, which has been called the costo-coracoid ligament, the ligamentum bi- corne, caldfini, the fascia axillaris, the “ liga- mentum suspensorium” of Gerdy, &c. &c. This aponeurosis becomes gradually thinner as it proceeds towards the arm-pit; it forms a sheath for the axillary artery and vein, spreads over the lesser pectoral muscle, and is, lastly, inserted into the skin. And Mr. Gerdy, who first laid stress upon this fact, says, that this fascia is the ligament of the skin of the arm- pit, which it pulls upwards. Although this membrane is not very strong, it may, never- theless, prevent matter pointing towards the surface ; and, hence, the importance of open- ing all abscesses of the axilla, as soon as possi- ble, to impede those burrowing abscesses, which are so difficult and tedious to cure. In cutting down upon the artery, this deep fascia must be divided carefully upon the grooved director, which is first passed beneath it; for by cutting through it, without that precaution, the artery or vein might be easily injured by the knife. The pectoralis minor muscle is important, on account of its relative situation with the axillary vessels. Surgical anatomists generally divide the axillary artery into three portions ; the first comprehends that part of the artery from the lower border of the first rib to the upper edge of the lesser pectoral muscle ; the second, the whole extent of the artery, while under that muscle ; and, lastly, the artery, from the lower border of the smaller pectoral muscle, to the lower edge of the latissimus dorsi, and pectoralis major mus- cles *. The axillary artery, thus defined, ranges downwards, outwards, and slightly backwards. When the arm hangs down by the side of the chest, the axillary artery describes a gentle curve, having its convexity turned upwards and outwards. The illustrious Camper has represented this position of the vessel in one of his bold and beautiful anatomical engravings. If the limb be separated from the body at right angles, then the artery presents nearly a straight line, is distant from the ribs, and lies 1 See Fig. 79, art. Aneurism. 3 close to the arm ; on the other hand, if the arm be raised above the head to its full extent, then again the artery may form another bend, the concavity of which is directed upwards. The axillary artery lies deepest in the first part of its course, and gradually becomes more superficial as it proceeds downwards to its termination. The artery in this portion of its course is quite on the inside, and a little in front of the axillary plexus of nerves, which are easily separated one from the other ; the vein, on the contrary, is in immediate contact with the artery ; it lies on its inside, and when distended with blood, may entirely overlap the artery ; as the vein is placed rather anteriorly to the artery it generally covers more or less of the inner part of its volume. The surgeon must take special care, when endeavouring to pass an aneurismal needle around the artery, to avoid wounding the vein which is so closely attached to it. The operator ought always to direct his needle, or directory, from the vein towards the artery, so as to prevent any fold of the vein being injured by those instruments, an accident which has sometimes occurred. The nerves of the axilla are large, nume- rous, very complicated in their divisions, and at about the middle portion of the artery, they form a sort of sheath to that vessel, which renders its ligature in this situation very diffi- cult. Mr. Harrison, in his excellent little treatise on arteries, seems to condemn the ope- ration of tying the artery in its middle portion, on account of the small pectoral muscle cover- ing it; but it is an easy matter to divide it, and thus lay bare the artery ; in fact, the muscle does not constitute the chief difficulty of this operation ; its division has been already proposed and executed on the living subject; but we must refer for a more detailed descrip- tion of the vessels and nerves, with their re- spective branches, to the article Aneurism. The axilla is abundantly supplied with lym- phatic vessels and glands ; some are dispersed about this region ; others form a sort of chain, following nearly the course of the thoracic ar- tery ; and some surround the subscapular ar- tery. The axilla is very frequently the seat of disease, for the cure of which some of the most important and difficult operations of surgery are required. The great quantity of cellular and adipose tissue, which not only exists in the arm-pit itself, but which fills up all the inter- muscular spaces around, is certainly the most common seat of inflammation, producing ab- scesses which require speedy opening, to pre- vent their burrowing and devastating effects upon the surrounding tissues. Some abscesses are merely superficial, and may have their origin in the follicles of the skin, or superficial lymphatic glands; these also require being opened early, because the skin is very sensi- tive, and easily inflamed. In puncturing the deep-seated abscesses of the axilla, the sur- geon should use the knife with great precau- tion ; for it has sometimes happened, that the large vessels have been pushed forwards to- wards the surface, by the pus accumulated