ANEURISM. 223 From the knowledge of all these important pathological facts, therefore, I was led to con- ceive the probability of being able to cure an aneurism by placing a ligature upon one of the branches of the diseased artery. A case of Aneurism of the Innominata soon occurred, w'hich afforded a favourable oppor- tunity of testing this new mode of operating. Nature had already instituted a curative pro- cess in this case, the circulation in the right carotid artery having diminished to such a de- gree that its pulsations were scarcely percep- tible. This circumstance alone not being suf- ficient to put a stop to the increase of the bulk of the aneurism, I thought it probable that, by placing a ligature on the subclavian artery, I should be strictly imitating the pro- cess which Nature herself had commenced, and that by thus further diminishing the force of the circulation, a coagulum would be allowed to form within the sac. A portion of blood, however, would necessarily continue to pass along the innominata, even after the subcla- vian artery was tied, and a stream would con- tinue to flow through the sac, and supply those branches of the subclavian on the cardiac side of the ligature, it being all but impracticable to place a ligature on the subclavian until it emerges from between the scaleni muscles ; such, however, I anticipated, would be the di- minution in the impetus of the bl ood through the sac, that the process of coagulation and consolidation of the tumour w'ould not only proceed, and its future increase be prevented, but that even a permanent obliteration of the aneurismal cavity would be accomplished. Fig. 67. Fig. 67 is an aneurismal tumour of the arteria innomi- nata, which by its pressure had obliterated the carotid artery; (a a a) the outline of the aneurism, compre- hending nearly the whole length of the innominata ; (b) the trunk'of the innominata; (c) the subclavian, with its branches ; and (d) the carotid laid open, its sides were compressed by the aneurism, but its canal remained pervious, except at its termination in the sac, where it was completely shut up by a thin delicate membrane, apparently a continuation of the mem- brane lining the sac. An aneurism of the arteria innominata ap- peared to me, indeed, particularly suitable to make a trial of this principle of operating; and I w'as led to this opinion from having exa- mined a case where the coats of the sac of an aneurism in that artery w'ere thickened with fibrinous concretions, and in w’hich the right carotid had been completely obstructed not only by the pressure of the tumour with which it was in close contact, but likewise by a deli- cate false membrane covering the orifice of the vessel where it arose from the sac; the effect of the obliteration of the carotid must in this case have been to diminish the circula- tion of blood through the aneurism at least one half, a diminution quite sufficient to cause that languor of the circulation necessary to permit of the formation of a coagulum within the sac. I had also met with a case where Nature had absolutely accomplished the con- solidation of an aneurism of the innominata by closing up the subclavian as well as the carotid artery. It therefore appeared to me that in the patient with aneurism of the innominata then under my care, and in whom the circulation through the carotid was already greatly di- minished, if not altogether interrupted, to place a ligature on the subclavian would be a proceeding in strict imitation of the sponta- neous process to which Nature resorted for the cure of aneurism of the arteria innomi- nata in the case to which I have just alluded. It was also a matter of consideration as to this patient, that the tumour had been increasing so rapidly that her life was in imminent danger, and though I was apprehensive that the aorta was also implicated in the disease, yet the un- certainty in the diagnosis of such cases, and a knowledge of the fact that persons may live for many years with the aorta in a diseased condition, impressed me with the propriety of placing a ligature on the subclavian artery in this case. The operation itself was one of no great danger, and as there was no other means of prolonging life, I considered the trial of the measure justifiable. In this case of Mrs. Denmark there was a pulsating swelling the size of a turkey-egg, whose base was situated under the clavicular edge of the sterno-mastoid muscle, and where the bellows’ sound could be heard. She expe- rienced severe pains, extending through the left side of the head and neck, and a disagree- able sensation of throbbing in the tumour. She had at times great difficulty of respira- tion, which increased on the slightest motion to such a degree as to produce a sense of im- pending suffocation; and her nights were very restless and disturbed, sleeping but for short, periods, and being often obliged to get out of bed. Her countenance bespoke great anxiety, and her complexion was pale and sallow. The disease had commenced, eleven months before, with difficulty of respiration, cough, and severe pains in the phest, head, and neck, which she considered to be rheumatic. About five months afterwards, she accidentally ob-