760 CEPHALHEMATOMA. in the condition of the mothers of his patients: they were of various ages, as the following table shows :— 9 were from set. 16 to 20 22 20 ... 25 4 25 ... 30 2 30 ... 35 5 40 ... 45 3 age not stated. Twenty-nine of these women were confined for the first time, eight for the second, four for the third, eighth, twelfth, and fourteenth times. This prevalence of primiparous women among the mothers of cephalhaematomatous children, a circumstance already noticed by Busch, d’Outrepont, and E. von Siebold, would be of consequence, were it not that the Lying-in-Hospital at Breslau, where Burchard observed, is chiefly devoted to the reception of women pregnant with their first child. The comparatively greater frequency of the affection in male infants is exceedingly re- markable : of forty-three of Dr. Burchard’s patients thirty-four are boys, nine girls. Twenty of these came into the world in per- fect health ; sixteen were either born, or soon after became affected, with “ icterus neonato- rum two had several attacks of cerebral congestion before the tumour was opened, &e. Diagnosis.—Among the affections for which this form of cephalhsematoma is liable to be mistaken is congenital encephalocele. The points of distinction between them are never- theless, as may be gathered from the sub- joined enumeration, numerous and clearly de- fined. Sub-pericranical Cephal- hematoma. Is the scat of fluctua- tion. Is perfectly indolent. Pressure produces no cerebral symptoms. Nor does it change the size of the swelling. The investing skin and hair arc in the natural state. Is never seated on the sutures. Is tense and hard. Pulsation is extremely rare. Is uninfluenced by the respiratory movements. Apparent perforation, caused by the elevated bony ridge. Is never pedunculated. Hernia of the Brain. There is no fluctuation, unless water be contained in the hernia. Is occasionally the scat of pain, especially under pressure. When large, cerebral symptoms frequently arise spontaneously ; these are greatly increased by pres- sure. Pressure diminishes its bulk, which it reacquires when the pressure is re- moved. The skin is thinner than natural, and without hair. In the vast majority of cases is seated on the su- tures or fontanels. Is clastic and soft. Pulsation is an ordinary symptom. Swells during expira- tion, and sinks during in- spiration. Real opening in the skull, either between the sutures or through the sub- stance of the bones. Inclines to the pedun- culated shape, which is often very marked. It seems hardly possible to confound this affection with ordinary hydrocephalus ; a sub- fascial aqueous cyst, spoken of in Zeller’s Thesis, might be distinguished by the absence of the bony elevated rim. Erectile tumours of the scalp are soft, spongy, easily depres- sible, lessened in size bv pressure, recovering their former dimensions by successive in- fluxes of blood, expand when the infant cries or coughs, are of a bluish-violet tint, have no prominent elevated border, and are not the seat of fluctuation;—the characters of cephal- hematoma are in all respects the reverse.— Encysted tumours of the scalp are distin- guishable by their being moveable, and by the absence of the elevated margin. Per- forating cancer of the meninges is reducible, is not surrounded with a raised rim, and is otherwise specially characterised. (See Can- cer.) Collections of pus under the peri- cranium, which may possess almost every external character of cephalhsematoma, even to the presence of an elevated and indurated margin, M.. Valleix presumes might be dis- tinguished therefrom by the slow and gradual formation of the tumour, the pain in the part (?), and tenderness on pressure, as well as inferior degree of hardness of the surround- ing prominence, which, it appears, contains no osseous matter, and is composed of hard- ened cellular tissue.—Common scalp swellings are characterised by being almost invariably the result of difficult labour, by being seated on the part descending first into the cavity of the pelvis, by being always single, indistinctly circumscribed, of deep livid colour, non-fluc- tuating, pitting on pressure, rarely surrounded by an annular prominence, and disappearing in from twelve to forty-eight hours. The distinctive marks of extra-pericranial cephal- haematoma will be presently stated. M. P. Dubois once met a combination of cedematous scalp swelling, extra and sub-pericranial ce- phalhaematoma ; under such circumstances an accurate diagnosis must be next to impossible. Termination.—In favourable cases, when the disease has been left to nature, or simply treated by discutient applications, the effused blood is slowly absorbed *, and the process of ossification proceeds from the bony eminence to the centre of the base : the period re- quired for its completion varies, forty days do not suffice for the purpose, as it appears from an observation by M. Valleix. Even after the lapse of many months the site of the tumour may be determined by the state of the bone : in an infant who died at the age of twelve months, of chronic hydrocephalus, Dr. Burchard found a sort of prominent cicatrix of the bone marking the limits of the original tumour ; the corresponding diploe was thick- ened, soft, and gorged with blood. In a case examined two years after birth, the parietal bone was somewhat more convex than its fellow ; in an infant aged three years, Becker 1 M. Gaussail lias reported a singular ease, in which the disappearance of a cephalhsematoma coexisted with attacks of epistaxis.