ANEURISM. 204 ficult to acquire; he may recollect the pre- cise course of the smallest branch of a vessel, or the most minute twig of a nerve ; he may know every origin and insertion of the mus- cles when taken separately, and still he may not remember the exact relative situations of the same parts, when considered collectively. We feel convinced (from actual experience) that, as far as the ordinary practice of surgery is concerned, this branch is the perfection of anatomy ! Without it the surgeon will rarely, if ever, be enabled to cut down upon a deep seated organ with as much security and precision as if the parts to be divided were transparent; besides, it will readily be allowed by all professors of anatomy, how sel- dom a perfect knowledge of that study crowns the student’s labours, especially in England, where still, unfortunately, so many obstacles are thrown in his way ; for this reason, also, would it not be advisable, instead of compel- ling the student to aspire to the acquirement of minute anatomy, to direct his attention more particularly to surgical anatomy, which, on account of its practical application, will ever be better engrafted in his memory ? It would be well if hospital surgeons were to precede all the great, operations with an ana- tomical display of the similar region or re- gions upon which they are about to act; they would thus excite a deep interest in the ope- ration, and confer great benefit on the patient, the pupils, and themselves. Much angry discussion has lately arisen in Paris, concerning the claims to the priority of idea regarding the publication of complete treatises upon surgical anatomy. We have not in our possession all the data upon which to found an impartial judgment ; a point, which however is the less important, as it will be discussed elsewhere ( History of Surgery). We may safely bestow great praise upon Allan Burns, Codes, J. and C. Bell, Harrison, in this country ; on Beclard and Dupuytren for their excellent lectures, and to M. M. Velpeau, Blandin, Gerdy, Edwards, Bour- gery, for their interesting labours. In Italy, Germany, and America, works have likewise been dedicated to this subject, which will receive due attention in future papers. The great object of surgical anatomy should be to neglect all those minute details which are found in comprehensive treatises, for the more perfect acquirement of the exact forms, sizes, connexions, and relative situations of the parts contained in the regions; for instance, the surface of the body must be scrupulously ex- amined ; the numerous external elevations and depressions are of considerable interest to the surgeon, affording him frequently the most faithful rules for the execution of operations. After the surface of the region, the deeper parts will next occupy the student’s care ; here, nothing should arrest his observation which is not of practical use. It will be our great aim, after the anatomical investigation, to point out all useful information respecting the various pathological conditions of the re- gions last described ; this will tend much to lessen the great perplexity which the young surgeon has so frequently to encounter in his first operations. Each article will thus be made to conclude with much important mat- ter, which the reader would in vain look for, in ordinary works on surgery and anatomy. These articles will contain no views of trail- scendental anatomy, no discussion of vain theo- ries, or obsolete operations ; a plain and prac- tical description of the regions of the body must alone be expected: the student may follow us with his scalpel and subject before him—the best and shortest way to make him- self master of surgical anatom}'. Many writ- ers have given themselves great trouble about the division of the body into sections or re- gions ; all have differed. M. Velpeau has made many which are neither natural nor of any practical benefit ; M. Blandin’s method is less arbitrary. As far as possible, we intend following the great natural divisions of the body, and propose calling them by the old names, thus:—Head, face, mouth, palate, arm, forearm, elbow, knee, groin, &c. &c. The most important articles will be accompanied by wood-cut sketches, drawn from nature. In the execution of this task, we shall en- deavour to guard against the errors of our predecessors, who, by attempting to represent too many objects in their engravings, have frequently thwarted their end, and rendered them extremely confused. Bibliography Palfin, Anatomic Chirurgicale du Corps Humain, edite par A. Petit, 2 vols. 8vo. Paris, 1753. Durand, Anatomie du Corps Humain, avec des Observations Chirurgicales sur chaque partie. Paris, 1770. Malacarne, Uicordi della AnatomiaChi- rurgica, spettante al capo c al collo, 8vo. Padua, 1801. Rosenmuller, leones Chirurgico-anatomicae in usuin Medicorum et Chirurgorum, fol. Weimar, 1805. A. Codes, Treatise on Surgical Anatomy, 8vo. Dublin, 1811. Bums, Surgical Anatomy of the Head and Neck. Edinb. 1811. Froi-iep, Anatomie in Beziehung auf Chirurgie. 4to. Weimar, 1813. Velpeau, Traite d’Anatomie Chirurgicale, ou Anatomie des Regions, considerec dans ses rapports avec la Chirurgie, et la Medecine Operatoire. 2 vols. 8vo. pi. Paris. 1826. Blandin, Traite d’Anatomie Typographique. 8vo. avec atlas pi. fol. Paris, 1826. Milne, Edwards, Manuel d’ Anatomie Chirurgicale. Pari9, 1827. (Claudius Tarrali) ANCHYLOPS. See ^gylops. ANCTERES, obsolete, ayicrrjpic, fibulas or clasps, by which the lips of wounds were formerly kept together. ANEURISM, (tiipvvuI, dilato,—avevpirrpa, Gr.; Pulsadergeschwulst, Ger.; anevrt/sme, Fr.) is a generic term applied to a tumour, formed either by the dilatation of the coats of an artery, or by blood effused from a rupture or wound of an artery, into the contiguous cellu- lar structure ; the term is also applied to a dilatation of any of the cavities of the heart. Under the term aneurism has also been com- prehended several diseases, which have no common character, except that they involve