82 AMAUROSIS. the circulation is depressed and feeble, or its effects may be injurious instead of beneficial. Unfortunately, the loss of blood, generally or locally, often mitigates suffering for a time, and therefore induces the patient to solicit the repetition of it; and, too often, the medical attendant, ignorant of its baneful tendency, follows up the deceptive plan of treatment. The disease cannot be arrested or cured by loss of blood ; the only good, in my opinion, which can be effected by it is lessening ten- sion of vessels, so as to retard the disorganiz- ing process, and allow time for the operation of other remedies. I should only, therefore, abstract blood generally when the pulse is hard and incompressible, and then only in suf- ficient quantity to relieve the tension of the vessels ; but, otherwise, I should prefer the use of leeches upon the palpebrae, as affording the means of emptying more readily the ves- sels of the affected part ; and in particular cases, where the leech acts injuriously, I should apply the cupping-glass to the temple or be- hind the ear; to the former spot if no hemi- crania existed,—to the latter if there were any cranial pain or tenderness. Mercury I consider to be a more powerful and serviceable agent in this disease than bleeding, when properly employed ; and equally dangerous as bleeding when used indiscrimi- nately. It may be first given with some drastic purgative, followed by an alkaline sa- line aperient to carry off all the matter accu- mulated in the intestinal canal, and afterwards administered with a narcotic in a form, dose, and with a frequency adapted to the condition and ordinary character of the mucous mem- brane, and also to the power of the patient : at the same time general power must be main- tained by a simple nutritious plain diet and stimulus, according to the previous habits of the patient; for those much addicted to stimu- lating drinks are rarely able to combat disease, if altogether deprived of that which they have become habituated to. It is generally considered necessary in the treatment of this disease to follow up what is called the antiphlogistic plan of treatment in its strictest sense : and this, I am satisfied, is the most injudicious course that can be pur- sued ; for where it may do good in one case, it will do mischief in at least a dozen. The first object of treatment is, then, effected principally by local bleeding, by acting on the more important secretions, and by mild mer- curial influence : but, further, local aids may be applied to allay suffering and retard the diseased action ; first, by narcotic fomentations, ointments, and plasters ; secondly, by counter- irritation : thus the eye may be exposed to the vapour of boiling water in which some narcotic has been mixed, or warm flannel or linen, sprinkled with laudanum or wine of opium, may be frequently applied to the sur- face of the lids. The use of much moisture, although it relieves at the time, occasions ag- gravation of suffering afterwards ; and similar effects result from the employment of cold. Gentle friction, with a narcotic ointment over the supercilium and to the temple, I have found very serviceable in subduing local pain ; and I have frequently combined the narcotic with the blue ointment, with excellent effect, in cases in which the internal use of mercury was objectionable, from irritable state of bowels. In other instances, when the oint- ments have failed to relieve, I have obtained the desired effect by covering the forehead and temple with a plaster made of soap cerate, opium, and belladonna. The application of blisters to the neck, or behind the ears, often proves very beneficial; I prefer the repetition of them, to the keeping up a discharge by stimulating means. The second object of treatment is to sub- due the local diseased action, and restore the balance of circulation and nervous power. This is to be effected by a careful continu- ance of the local and general medicinal means described ; aided by a regular, plain, and nu- tritious diet, moderate exercise, warm cloth- ing, perfect rest of the organ, and, as far as possible, mental relaxation and quietude. When once fairly checked, the inflammatory action rapidly subsides under the above treat- ment ; and as the symptoms of severe charac- ter disappear, the various remedies appropri- ated to them may be laid aside; thus the local applications may be abandoned when the local pains are subdued, and the mercurial may be diminished, as the vascular turgescence lessens. When all appearance of diseased action is gone, there is often much to do to place the patient in a state of safety, and unless this be done, the medical man ill performs his duty to his patient. There is liability to relapse or to the occur- rence of fresh inflammation from trivial causes, so long as the circulation is of feeble nature, and the balance of vascular action or nervous power unequal. The patient should therefore be kept under surveillance, and made to continue a regular plan of diet and exercise, such as will tend to increase and maintain general power, and at the same time adopt a very mild alterative medical course to correct error in secretion, and improve the condition of the circulation. All mental excitement should be most care- fully avoided. Any return of uneasiness and appearance of congestion in the affected organ, should be im- mediately met by the application of a mustard plaster or a small blister, and a weak stimu- lating lotion of acetate or sulphate of zinc may be used once a day to promote contrac- tion of the distended conjunctival vessels, as a few usually remain, after active disease has ceased. If possible the patient should be placed in a pure air, till his health and strength are reno- vated. INFLAMMATION OF THE RETINA (CHRONIC). Synonyme—Retinitis. Symptoms.—This disease commences either