30 EAR, AND HEARING, DISEASES OF. sisting. In this case, besides the remedies already mentioned, it may be necessary to medicate directly the membrane affected. For as in eatarrhal ophthalmia, for instance, it is not enough to wipe away the discharge from the eye, but also necessary to make some local application to the conjunctiva, as well as to employ some general remedy ; so in many cases we must medicate the mem- brane lining the cavity of the tympanum at least (if we do not think it necessary to adopt any more general treatment), after the accu- mulated mucus has been removed by the air- douche ; or in the event of no accumulation existing, there may still be a morbid state of the membrane lining the cavity of the tym- panum, admitting of being as beneficially acted upon by some local stimulating application as the conjunctiva in chronic conjunctivis. It is as simple a matter to put a drop into the eye as to wipe away a discharge ; but in the case of the ear, it is as complicated a proceed- ing to apply a remedy directly to the mem- brane lining the cavity of the tympanum as to disperse accumulated mucus. Watery injec- tions are inconvenient in their application and cause pain. The vapour of acetic ether pos- sessing slightly astringent and stimulating pro- perties, admitting of being easily sent in, and exciting no pain beyond a prickling sensation sometimes, has been found best adapted. Injection of the vapour of acetic ether into the middle car.—The apparatus I have em- ployed for applying the vapours of acetic ether is represented in the annexed engra- ving. (fig. 197.) Fig. 197. a, A tubulated glass receiver, into which some drops of acetic ether are put. b, A chemical stand for supporting the receiver. c c, A large Eustachian tube catheter, fitted in a corh and inserted into the neck of the receiver, d d, The flexible tube of the air-press, inserted into the wide end of the catheter, and conducting an extremely gentle stream of air into the receiver, e, A flexible tube, fixed at one end, by a cork, into the small mouth of the receiver. The beak at the other extremity is adapted to fit into the wide end of the catheter introduced into the patient's Eustachian tube. The stream of air from the air-press is regu- lated by plunging the beak of its flexible tube, before joining it to the apparatus, into a glass of water, and seeing that the air issues out merely bubble after bubble. The air from the air-press thus issuing in a gentle stream, becomes, in its passage through the receiver, loaded with ethereal vapour. If it is desired to apply the air loaded with a greater quantity of ethereal vapour, then more or less heat, by means of a wax-taper or spirit-lamp placed under the receiver may be applied. In cases in which, without actual obstruc- tion of the Eustachian tube, air nevertheless does not freely enter, I have found the injec- tion of the ethereal vapour assist the action of the air-douche. Though the Eustachian tube and cavity of the tympanum have been rendered free by the air-douche, it is never- theless advisable, every time before proceed- ing to send in the vapours, to satisfy one’s self by blowing with the mouth, that the catheter lies right, and that there is free passage to the tympanum. The application of the ethereal vapours is continued each time for about a quarter of an hour. The number of applications will depend on the progress of the improvement. In carrying on the treatment with ethereal vapours there is one essential point to be at- tended to, and that is, to go on regularly day after day, or at least every second day. The treatment carried on at irregular intervals, proving here as unsatisfactory as the irregular treatment of a case of chronic ophthalmia. Cases illustrative of the air-douche as a means of diagnosis and treatment of muculent obstruc- tion of the middle ear, and of the use of injec- tions of the vapour of acetic ether into the cavity of the tympanum. Case I.—Obstruction of the Eustachian tubes. —Cavity of the tympanum free.—Accumulation of wax in external auditory passages. A. B. a woman-servant aged 40. Wednesday, August 8th, 1838.—Left ear. Hearing distance by a watch two inches, with noise in the ear sometimes like a waterfall. A year last January, the affection came on for the first time in consequence of cold. The deafness continued for about six weeks, and then went off suddenly. About the end of the following summer, the deafness came on again and then went off as before. Was at- tacked again in the following winter, but that time the deafness and noise in the ear conti- nued three months. The present attack has continued six weeks. Right ear hears the same watch at a dis- tance of 9 feet 10 inches. Had noise in the right ear last year, but not now. The right ear was as bad as the left when first attacked. Throat a little red but not swollen. Sense of smell not so acute as formerly, and nostrils rather dry. Considerable accumulation of dark brown wax in both auditory passages. Wax ordered to be syringed out prepara- tory to further examination. Thursday, 9th August.— Has had both ears syringed out. The membrana tympani on the right side is opaque and slightly yellow ;