EMPHYSEMA. 91 disadvantageous circumstances, almost sure to afford *. To these surgical modes of treatment must be added constitutional care. Abundant vene- section, repeated according to the urgency of the symptoms, is advisable in all cases of ex- tensive emphysema following injuries of the lung ; more especially, of course, if pneu- monia of any severity supervene. By dimi- nishing the quantity of circulating fluid, we lessen the quantity of lung required for oxy- genation ; and as dyspnoea depends on want of proportion between the mass of the blood, and the extent of oxygenating surface, rather than on the actual dimensions of the latter, it is plain that venesection must relieve the diffi- culty of breathing. If, in spite of this treatment, the patient’s condition grow worse, the dyspnoea becoming more and more intense, we may feel tolerably well assured that either blood or air is accu- mulating to large extent in the pleura, that traumatic inflammation of the lung is rapidly extending, or that air has forced its way into the cellular structure of the viscera : of this we may often obtain certain knowledge, by the positive and negative signs of percussion and auscultation. If pleural accumulation be the cause of the increasing distress, is para- centesis to be had recourse to? The pro- priety of, and the proper period after effusion for, giving artificial issue to blood, are ques- tions belonging to the subject of Hemo- thorax. Much ridicule has been thrown on the proposal (which, w’e believe, originated with Hewson) to evacuate air from the pleura by puncturing an intercostal space. But we believe this ridicule less merited by the ope- ration itself, than by the mistaken notions entertained of its real results by its proposer, and by the absurdities connected with it by others. Thus Hewson fancied that opening the pleura would cause the collapsed lung to expand: Broomfield and B. Bell adopted the notion, (the former, indeed, quarrelled for the merit of originality in the suggestion,) and even proposed plans for exhausting the air and dilating the lung! Here was assuredly enough to bring the proposed operation into disrepute. There is one chain of circumstances attend- ing emphysema under which we should not hesitate to recommend paracentesis. It is when in a case of wound of both pleural laminae, with- out solution of continuity of the integuments, the air, spreading also extensively into the cel- lular membrane, accumulates to such extent in the pleural cavity, as to cause detrusion side- wards and downwards of the mediastinum and diaphragm, and hence entail material obstruc- tion of the play of the other lung. The effects of establishing a communication between the atmosphere and pleural cavity under these 1 Leeches have sometimes, by biting deeply, saved the necessity for incision; a point which may be borne in mind in the case of children whose mothers, as is not unfrequently the case, will not permit them to be scarified. circumstances will be, first, to restore the mediastinum and diaphragm to their places, and thereby to relieve the lung of the un- injured side ; and secondly, to arrest the pro- gress of subcutaneous infiltration, by affording a free outlet for the pleural air. The injured lung, having been already in a state of col- lapse against the spine, will not be in a W'orse condition after than before the operation. One point remains to be discussed, namely, the propriety of applying a bandage round the chest in cases of emphysema. Abernethy recommended its application on the following grounds : “ Pressure by bandage not only hin- ders the air from diffusing itself through the cellular substance, but serves to prevent it from escaping out of the wounded lung, and, of course, facilitates the healing of the wound, which would be prevented by the constant transmission of air. Its early application, therefore, will often prevent a very trouble- some symptom ; whilst, at the same time, by keeping the fractured bones from motion, it greatly lessens the sufferings of the patient The application of a bandage to the chest, in cases of fractured rib without emphysema, is generally productive of much ease to the pa- tient ; but experience does not seem to have justified any such favourable idea of its utility, when the injury is complicated with effusion of air into the cellular membrane. It seems manifest, a priori, that cutting down on the seat of the fracture must be a much more effi- cacious method of preventing the accumula- tion of air in that tissue, than by applying a bandage round the thorax. Nevertheless, it is indubitable, that in many cases a certain amount of relief follows bandaging ; and that, by being put early in practice, the infiltration of air may to a certain extent be commanded. Dupuytren did not consider inconsiderable emphysema a counter-indication to bandaging, and believed that its increase might be pre- vented thereby. But if air be accumulated extensively in the cellular membrane, and pneumothorax have increased to such a degree as to obstruct the action of the lung of the opposite side, the con- finement of a bandage becomes, as in Cheston’s case, intolerable. Abernethy himself was obliged to admit this. “ Patients,” he says, “ will not always be able to wear a bandage when one lung is collapsed, particularly if any previous disease has existed in the other, as it equally confines the motions of the ribs on both sides, and as every possible enlargement of the chest becomes necessary for the due admission of air into the lung which still exe- cutes its functions 2.” Dupuytren, too, states, in speaking of a case of very extensive em- physema, that the application of a bandage would only have the effect of reducing the patient to an extremity of anguish. Mr. Wardrop3 alludes to a case of emphysema following fracture of the ribs on both sides of 1 Op. citand. vol.ii. p. 179. 2 Op. citand. p. 183. 3 Halliday, op. citand. p. 29.