AMAUROSIS. 92 roiditis, are very rare, without such evidence of disorganization as would forbid even mild, much more severe treatment; I have, how- ever, seen a few cases in which much benefit has been obtained by the plan of treatment that I have detailed, and although it has failed in some instances, the success of it has been such as to warrant its recommendation. One of the first cases of this kind that came under my care, was in a powerful man about thirty-eight years of age, from the north of Ireland, who was sent to me by my late excellent friend, Dr. Babington ; he had been amaurotic for seven years, and had lost the perception of light ; but the globes possessed their natural firmness and elasticity; the pupils were clear but irregular, from many points of adhesion between the pupillary mar- gin of the iris, and the anterior capsule of the lens ; the irides were discoloured and dull, and he had the vacant aspect of a blind per- son. I admitted him into the infirmary (then in Charter-house Square), and put him under mercurial treatment, with a nutritious diet ; as soon as the mouth became tender, a consi- derable degree of sclerotitis occurred, with pain and tenderness of the eyeballs ; the plan was, however, steadily continued, and some belladonna was applied night and morning to each eyebrow ; he soon became sensible of light, and gradually acquired the power of discerning surrounding objects, and at the same time the adhesions between the iris and the capsule of the lens began to give way, and the pupils to reassume their natural figures, by degrees the vision improved, all appear- ance of inflammatory action subsided, the pu- pils became nearly regular, and the irides brilliant ; the full mercurial action was kept up for above sixteen weeks, when the amau- rosis was completely subdued, and his vision perfect. For sixteen weeks he discharged about a pint and a half of saliva daily ; but in spite of the severe treatment, he came out of the course improved in appearance, and evi- dently increased in bulk. In one other case, I have known a perfect recovery from complete amaurosis under simi- lar treatment ; and in other instances a useful degree of vision has been obtained. When the patient retains the perception of light, or of large objects, the prospect of re- covery from the treatment recommended is much greater than in the cases of complete amaurosis. The existence of capsular cataract, or opake deposit, on the capsule of the lens, renders the recovery by medical treatment alone very im- probable ; but, as I have observed, many of these cases may be greatly benefited by me- dical and surgical treatment combined. In those instances in which a perception of light remains, although the pupil be obscured (but without other evidence of disorganization), I should recommend a mercurial course, pro- portioned to the power of the patient ; after which, by careful operative proceeding, vision may be frequently restored to a useful though very rarely to a perfect extent. The limits of the present paper forbid my entering into the description of the appropriate operations. The existence of staphyloma sclerotica} with amaurosis, as a consequence of choroi- ditis, renders the case nearly hopeless ; but whilst any useful vision remains (which is possible), it may be perhaps preserved by the treatment already described. A softened and shrunken globe indicates extension of the dis- ease from the choroid and iris to the retina and vitreous body, and such a case is past relief from medical or surgical skill. INFLAMMATION OF THE GLOBE. Inflammatory action occasionally takes place simultaneously in all the tunics, and in the principal humours or their membranes. Symptoms.—Severe and continued pain in the eyeball and about the orbit, with fre- quent dartings which extend to the brain, and produce excruciating suffering. A sense of tension of the globe, as if it would burst, with excessive tenderness, and constant scintilla- tions or flashings of light; a sense of difficulty in moving the eye, and an aggravation of pain by attempt to move it; secretion at first lessened, and sometimes afterwards profuse ; after a short time, swelling and tension of the palpebrae takes place, and the patient feels in- crease of suffering when recumbent. Appearances.—Palpebrae swollen and red ; globe appears projecting; the vessels of the conjunctiva and sclerotic distended with red blood, so as to present a dark red surface; cornea slightly hazy ; iris dull and discoloured ; pupil dilated and irregular or oblong ; motions of iris destroyed ; pupil of a muddy and gene- rally dirty green hue. This disease occurs at the same period of life, and under the same circumstances as the acute form of glaucoma, of which I consider it to be an aggravated and extended form. The destruction of vision by it is so rapid and complete, that medical and surgical skill avails little in preventing amaurosis ; but the suffering- may be mitigated, and the inflamma- tory action subdued, by the same plan of treat- ment that I have described as necessary in acute glaucoma. The disease is protracted under the use of such remedies as tend mate- rially to lessen general power. LESIONS OF THE RETINA. Such accidents affecting the retina alone, are, I believe, extremely rare, as some of the other textures almost invariably suffer at the same time. I have already pointed out how amaurosis occurs, from very trivial violence which does not produce any apparent disorganization ; and it may therefore be imagined that more se- vere injury which occasions lesion of the re- tina would always be attended with destruc- tion of its functions, or that amaurosis would inevitably ensue. Such is not, however, the constant result of severe injury, as regards the entire retina, for