FISTULA. 184 muscles, le tissue cellulaire, &c. Archiv. Gen. Med. vol. xxxi. Travers, An Inquiry concerning that dis- turbed state of vital functions, usually denominated Constitutional Irritation. London, 18'27. (to///’, Ueber die durch Uebertragungder Rotzecontagion del1 Pfcrde auf Menschen erzeugte Krankheit. Medicinische Zei- tung. Berlin, 1831. Williams, 1{. Elements of Medi- cine, vol. ii. p. 365. On the poison of Farcinoma (Farcy and Glanders). London, 1841. (P. Rat/er.') FEVER (TRAUMATIC). See Irri- tation. FISSURE (from findere, to cleave, Lat.; fente, fissure, Fr.; Spalte, Ger.) In speak- ing of bones, this term is used to designate a fracture in which the bone is cracked, but not separated. Cracks or fissures occur also in the soft parts. A very painful affection of this nature is sometimes observed in the mucous membrane of the anus. (See Anus.) They are also observed in the skin, under the form of longitudinal ulcerated chaps,—around the natural mucous outlets, as in the lips, and in the deep clefts of the thighs and nates. Cracks in the latter regions, arising from syphilitic taint, are called rhagades. FISTULA (fistule, Fr. ; Fistel, Ger. ; avpiyK, Gr.) A solution of continuity, so named from its resemblance to the tube of a pipe or reed ; ordinarily sinuous, narrow’, of variable depth, communicating with a natural or accidental cavity, or an excretory canal, and giving issue, in most cases, to normal or abnormal secretions. The fistulous track or canal is lined with a fine membrane, mucous in appearance and function, though not furnished with mucipa- rous glands ; it is, how’ever, capable of secre- tion and absorption, w’hereby its obliteration is effectually prevented. When the irritation has persisted for a considerable period, the external opening of the fistula grows firm, and is furnished with an epidermic covering. In some situations, this disposition to thicken- ing at the external aperture is so great, that it assumes a nipple shape of callous consist- ence, or by a fungating process is raised into irregular nodules, on which it is sometimes difficult to detect the orifice of the fistula. The mode in which these tracks are formed is as follows : the pus becoming accumulated in the primitive scat of the inflammation, and the membrane containing it being pressed by it, at its most dependent point it yields, and is elongated, until it arrives at the surface, which it elevates into a tumour, and finally ulcerates. When, however, the fistula has been produced from a wound of an excretory reservoir or duct, the w’ound itself forms the line of the track. Under the generic name of fistula, affec- tions are included which not only involve a great variety of structures, but differ exceed- ingly from each other in regard to situation, causes, results, &c. Solution of continuity, the essential feature in this disease, may in effect be produced mechanically from external causes, or vitally from internal lesions. A wound, for instance, communicating with a natural cavity, or an excretory duct, becomes fistulous from the irritation arising from the constant escape of some portion of the con- tents of such cavity ; or a foreign body may be driven into the living parts at the moment of the infliction of a wound, and there giving rise to suppurative irritation, the track by which its entrance wras effected is converted into a fistulous channel for the elimination of the purulent matter. The same effect will follow when a splinter of bone is the exciting cause of the suppuration. But fistulas are formed also from internal lesions. Thus in- flammation may take place in a part, and mat- ter being formed, it makes its way to the sur- face. Under such circumstances, if the sup- puration is kept up by a carious or necrosed bone, an erosion of the articular cartilages, or ligaments, or by the perforation of a natural cavity, or excretory duct, the matter will con- tinue to be voided through the channel which becomes permanent or fistulous. Some abs- cesses are liable to degenerate into fistulae, particularly those in which the cellular tissue has been so extensively destroyed that the walls of the cavity continue to secrete matter, adhesion not taking place from the impossibi- lity of bringing them into contact. In such a case, if the pus be secreted but in small quan- tity, and the canal be left free of its presence for any time, the fistulous track may close up; but as the pus is still secreted in the cavity resulting from the destruction of the cellular tissue, as soon as it is accumulated in sufficient quantity, it seeks a new vent. But a fistulous track will sometimes heal spontaneously. When this event takes place, the pus, c-r other fluid which had hitherto found vent by it, ceases to pass through the anormal channel, and the tissues contracting, unite to form a cellular cord, which in its turn ultimately disappears. Opportunities of verifying the fact have shown, in cases of congestive or lumbar abscess, that the fistulous track is first converted into a cord, that by the progress of absorption, this cord loses its continuity, and finally, that all traces of it disappear. The obliteration of a natural excretory out- let leads also to the formation of a fistulous channel to supply its place. The natural secretions accumulate until their reservoir or channel becomes distended, the surrounding tissues inflame, soften, and become extensively infiltrated, and one or more openings are made to the surface, either by suppuration or gangrene. But it is not necessary that the natural passage should be completely obli- terated in order to determine this result. When inflammation occurs in mucous canals, their calibre is diminished by the tumefaction of the mucous membrane, and surrounding cellular tissue; a gradually increasing obstacle is thus formed to the transmission of the secreted matter. The portion of the canal