ARTERITIS. 381 point. So far, then, a healthy inflammation of an artery terminates by a species of union by the first intention, and whatever other re- sults have been attributed to this cause, they may probably be more easily explained by referring them to a different source. It has been supposed by high authority, that the ob- literation of large tracts of arteries, such as of the umbilical arteries, and the ductus arterio- sus in the infant, and of the interspace between a ligature and the next collateral branch in any subject, is the result of a certain species of healthy inflammation; but these phenomena are so unlike the effects of an inflammatory process as generally observed, that it is diffi- cult to ascribe their occurrence to this cause. What evidence is there of the existence of inflammation in the umbilical artery of the infant, and if it did take place, would the result be the obliteration of the vessel1 ? What is there in the casual existence of a collateral branch to check the sporadic tendency of in- flammation, and limit its extent within a given space, perhaps within the one-eighth of an inch or less ? It may, after all, be only quibbling about a name, but I would rather attribute this phenomenon to a general law in the ani- mal economy, which tends to the closure of all canals when no longer permeated by the substances for which they were designed to afford a passage : a law, the operation of which is seen in the closure and obliteration of veins as well as arteries ; in the diminution of the calibre of the lower portion of the bowel where an artificial anus exists ; in the contraction ofthe urethra in fistula in perineo; and in many other cases, which it is now unnecessary to specify. It will be seen hereafter, that the tendency of arteritis is rather to increase than to diminish the size and capacity of the affected vessel. The very early symptoms of the unhealthy inflammation of arteries are not known. In some instances, acute and severe pains have been experienced before the appearance of internal aneurisms, but in others there has been even more satisfactory evidence of the existence of the disease without the patient’s complaining of any suffering : I can therefore only avail myself of examples in which the disease was fully formed, in order to describe its appearances and effects. When an oppor- tunity is afforded of examining a vessel in this condition, and its coats are slit up longitudin- ally, the internal membrane appears to be of a bright crimson or carmine colour, varied with small spangle-like patches of a paler and more opaque tint. This vascularity is not confined to the lining membrane, for on removing this, the fibrous coat is seen also to be deeply stained. Between these, but more closely at- tached to the former (for it is removable with it,) is a deposition of a soft cheesy stea- toinatous material, which being seen through the lining membrane, gives it that patchy ap- pearance already mentioned. An artery in 1 “1 have 9ccn the body of an infant some days old, in which, the umbilical artery,greatly dilated, was filled with mis to the extent of nearly two inches.” Cruvcil- hler, loc. citat. this condition is remarkably increased in cali- bre 1; its properties, both of contractility and elasticity are diminished, and it easily breaks down and tears, under an extending force that would have little or no effect on a vessel not the seat of disease. Probably in a very short time after the formation of this steatoma- tous deposit, ulceration commences in the lining membrane, which, proceeding from with- in, erodes the middle tunic to a greater or less extent of depth, and thus leads to the produc- tion of aneurism. The symptoms that indicate the presence of arteritis, have not been clearly laid down, and moreover are such as might easily be overlooked, if not sought for by a careful and even rigid examination. It has been already stated that the previous occurrence of pain is not a satisfactory diagnostic. In the case of inflammation of the femoral artery already al- luded to, Dupuytren stated, that a dull heavy pain had been previously felt in the iliac fossa of the same side, from whence it descended along the internal part of the thigh, then to the posterior part of the leg, and finally reached the sole of the foot and the toes. He also speaks of the patient having been annoyed by cramps, and in general, persons suffering from aneurism of the aorta accompanied by inflammation complain of pain in the back, stitches in the side, and spasms in different parts of the chest. Where gangrene is threat- ened, the temperature of the limb is diminished below the situation of the inflamed artery, and the coldness is felt to be increased in intensity as the examiner proceeds downwards, the sensibility being impaired exactly in the same proportion. On laying the finger over the course of the vessel, its pulsations are found to be weak, tremulous, and indistinct, the artery in its entire course appearing to be converted into a hard incompressible cord2. As a consequence of arteritis, suppuration within the vessel must be of rare occurrence ; nevertheless it may be met with, either occu- pying the whole calibre of the artery for a given space, as in the case already quoted from Cruveilhier, or more generally in the centre of, or intimately mixed up with clots of librine or coagulable lymph. In no case, that I am aware of, has purulent matter been found mixed with the blood in the arterial circula- tion : neither do I know of a single instance of gangrene of the vessel itself supervening as a consequence of idiopathic inflammation. The treatment of arteritis has not been dis- tinctly explained, farther than that it should be antiphlogistic in the fullest acceptation of the term. When it is acute and of a healthy character, tending to adhesion and obliteration 1 Dupuytren has related a case, in which the artery was found in the opposite condition. “ A la partie mo- yenne de la cuisse l’artere, quoique d'apparence nor- inale, etait retrecie, occupee par un caillot presqne filiforme, rose, et qui parut s’etre forme apres la mort. Lecons Orales ; tom. iv. p. 489. 2 This does not exactly correspond with my own ex- perience, for I have felt the artery of the thigh during life, and satisfied myself that it was greatly enlarged; a diagnosis that was verified afterwards by dissection.