AMAUROSIS. 85 nearly always arises under a depressed and irregular condition of circulation. If there are symptoms sufficient to warrant the loss of blood generally, it should be abstracted with great caution and sparingly. The general plan of treatment that I have described as necessary for subduing the acute form of the disease, is that best adapted to arrest, and perhaps, in a degree, subdue the chronic affection. The local symptoms of fulness or pain are best remedied by counter-irritation, viz.: mus- tard plasters, not to vesicate; blisters re- peated ; or tartar-emetic ointment applied as a small plaster : these all act most beneficially when applied over the expansion of the supra- orbital vessels and nerves. In cases where there is much ocular congestion or cerebral fulness with flushing and heat of head, a few leeches may be applied to the palpebrae, or a single cupping-glass behind the ear ; but blood must not be removed to such an extent as to affect the general power, or it will inevitably prove injurious. The observations previously made on cloth- ing and exercise, in the treatment of the acute disease, apply equally in that of the chronic. There are two other diseases which affect the retina and by occasioning organic change produce amaurosis. One was, I believe, first noticed and de- scribed by Beer, and named by him the cat’s eye, from its being characterized by a brilliant metallic lustre, like that observable in the eyes of the cat and other animals of the same kind, in particular positions, or under certain modi- fications of light. This disease is extremely rare ; the few ex- amples that I have seen of it, have been in males. The first case which came under my observation was in a boy about ten years of age, of healthy aspect and make : his parents stated that he was blind, that he had been so for some time, and that the loss of vision had been gradual. He had a somewhat vacant coun- tenance, which was the only circumstance that indicated his loss of vision ; for when I ex- amined his eyes by the aid of a strong light, I could not detect any change in texture or function which could account for amaurosis ; the humours appeared perfectly clear, the iris healthy, most active in its motions, and obe- dient to the influence of light. From these circumstances I suspected that the boy was feigning blindness, but kept my suspicion to myself, and ordered some simple medicine j he was brought two or three times to me be- fore I detected the nature of the complaint, and this I did accidentally. He was standing a few feet from me, among some other pa- tients, in a situation shaded from the bright light admitted by the window, when I ob- served a brilliant metallic reflection from the pupils of his eyes, such as would take place from a cat’s eyes similarly placed : upon his being brought into a clear bright light this appearance coidd no longer be discerned; but when he was again placed in a shaded part of the room, at a distance of a few feet from me, it became again evident. When the pupils were dilated by belladonna, scarcely any mor- bid appearance could be seen, so long as the eye was exposed to a clear bright light; but the metallic reflection was brilliant, and readily perceived in a moderate light at a short dis- tance, whilst, on close inspection, it always disappeared. The patient attended for several months at the infirmary, and mild alterative treatment was adopted but without any advantage, or any increase of morbid appearance. In another case also, which I had an oppor- tunity of watching for some months, no per- ceptible change took place ; and in all the cases of this kind that I have seen, the amau- rosis has been complete. I am disposed to consider this disease as occurring in the choroid, or between it and the retina, from the close resemblance of the me- tallic reflection to that seen in the feline tribe, in which we know the appearance to result from the tapetum ; and further, because I be- lieve that a morbid change in the retina which could give rise to such an appearance, would be easily detected under a close inspection in a bright light, especially when the pupil is dilated. As to the other disease, we are satisfied, by anatomical investigation, that it is seated in the retina. It presents at first either of two different appearances—sometimes a bright yel- low colour pervades the entire pupil, and on close inspection (the pupil being dilated) a uniform opake yellow deposit can be easily discerned in the site of the retina; but in other cases, the yellow appearance in the pupil is partial, and when the pupil is dilated part of the surface of the retina exhibits opake yellow tubercles, whilst in other parts its usual dark and brilliant appearance is re- tained. The yellow deposit, whether uniform or tubercular, presents usually a few or numer- ous red vessels, carrying red particles of blood. When it is entire and uniform the pa- tient is completely amaurotic, but when tuber- cular and partial, the portions of the retina not occupied by the deposit retain the usual degree of sensibility ; this lasts, however, only for a short period, for the disease soon extends over the whole surface of the membrane. Either appearance is usually regarded as the commencement of malignant fungoid dis- ease ; but I believe that such an opinion is erroneous, it being in many instances a merely scrofulous deposit: my principal reason for expressing this belief is, that I have known several of these cases to terminate in atrophy of the globe, under the most careful manage- ment. As the treatment of this disease, however, is not adopted with a view to cure the amau- rosis, which I believe to be inevitable, I can- not here enter into it. This disease most frequently appeal's in in-