265 ANEURISM. years of age, who had come from Cambel- ton to consult him. The dilatation occupied the superficial, temporal, and frontal branches : the vessels were very voluminous, soft, and extremely tortuous ; and the wave of blood upheaving the mass could be very distinctly felt. The progress of the dilatation had been slow. INFERIOR EXTREMITY. Aneurisms of the inferior, are comparatively more frequent than those of the superior ex- tremity ; in the foot, however, as in the hand, they are of rare occurrence. It has been even doubted by some surgeons, if any case of aneurism of the dorsal artery of the foot has been ever observed. But though exceedingly rare, this form of the affection has nevertheless occurred. Guattani mentions a case that had been caused by the operation of blood-letting in the foot, and three other cases are recorded by MM. Roux and Vidal. From the position of the artery, and its resting on the astragalus, navicular, and cuneiform bones in its course, from beneath the annular ligament of the tarsus, at the upper part of the instep, to the point where it bifurcates, and dips down be- tween the first and second metatarsal bones, compression will be particularly applicable. If, however, it should be found necessary to resort to ligature, it should be placed double, both above and below the tumour. Indeed this precaution becomes the more necessary as the aneurism happens to be more remote from the centre, in consequence of the more frequent communications that are established between the branches of an arterial trunk. This observation applies equally to aneurisms in the hand or on the head, and more espe- cially, when the lesion of the artery is of the traumatic kind. The application of a single ligature above the aperture of the vessel, might, in such cases, be insufficient, as the blood would continue to reach the tumour, through the anastomosing branches. Ligature of the dorsal artery of the foot:—In its course, it runs between the tendon of the common extensor, and the proper extensor of the great toe. Fig. 86. Fig. 86. a, the dor- mi artery of the foot between its two satellite veins; b b, the ligature pussed under the artery; c, a re- tractor, holding back the external lip of the wound. The patient being placed on his back, the foot extended and slightly bent, is held by an assistant. An incision of an inch and a half or two inches is made from the tarsal annular ligament, along the outside of the proper ex- tensor of the great toe. The division of the skin and cellular tissue exposes a thin apon- eurosis which covers the artery itself. The vessel being isolated from its accompanying nerve and veins, a ligature is passed beneath it, and tied ; if a second be necessary, it is applied in the same manner. ARTERIES OF THE LEG. Spontaneous aneurisms are extremely rare in the leg ; those which require the inter- vention of the surgeon in this region, being chiefly of the traumatic kind. The arteries are derived from the popliteal, and are distri- buted on the front and back of the leg. The anterior tibial artery passes through an open- ing at the upper part of the interosseous liga- ment, and thus commences its course deep between the tibia and fibula, and lying on the interosseous ligament. It is covered by the mass of muscles, the tibialis anticus, extensor digitorum, and extensor pollicis ; in the upper part of the leg, it descends first between the tibialis and extensor communis, next between the tibialis and extensor pollicis ; on reaching the ancle, it passes beneath the annular liga- ment ; deep-seated above, it gradually becomes more superficial throughout the rest of its course, resting in the lower part on the out- side of the tibia. Its whole track corresponds with a line drawn from the middle of the space between the head of the fibula, and spine of the tibia, to a central point between the two malleoles. Its great depth above, and the proximity of the articulation below, are reasons for not tying it in either of these situations ; the intermediate space being al- ways preferred for this purpose. Ligature of the posterior tibial artery:—This vessel is larger than the anterior branch, and may therefore, in consequence of its size and direction, be regarded as the continuation of the popliteal artery. It descends from the lower edge of the popliteus muscle, between the superficial and deep-seated muscles on the back of the leg. Its course would be repre- sented by a line drawn from the centre of the hollow of the ham, to between the internal malleole and the tendo achillis ; curving a little however towards the inside of the leg. Above it rests upon the posterior tibial mus- cle, and is deeply covered with the gastroc- nemius and soleus ; but the muscles becoming tendinous below, depart from the artery, so that it is superficial where it runs along the edge of the tendo achillis, being only co- vered by the skin and aponeurosis ; it then descends behind the internal malleole, from w'hich it is separated only by the tendons of the posterior tibial and common flexor mus- cles, enveloped in their sheath. Throughout this course, it is accompanied by two veins, one at each side, and the posterior tibial nerve, which lies to its fibular side. The artery may be cut down upon, at several points of this course.