808 CONDYLOMA. Ilcat, moisture, and the lodgment of acrid secretions occasion it. Thus diseases of the rectum lead to condylomatous growths round the anus. We see it in filthy persons in the lower classes, independently of any venereal discharge ; in females, it is seldom unaccom- panied with leucorrhcea. It is a common sequela of chronic gonorrhoea. No doubt the latter is both the most effi- cient and most frequent cause. It might, therefore, be supposed that simple condyloma has something specific in its nature, and ought to be regarded as venereal. But the following considerations are opposed to such a view. In the first place, condyloma often occurs inde- pendently both of syphilis and gonorrhoea ; in the next place, it is commonly cured with- out mercury ; and, in the third place, I have seen no reason to conclude that secondary symptoms are ever occasioned by it. Arising, as it does, from acrimonious secretions, we may readily admit its dependence upon go- norrhoea, without assigning to it a specific character. In this respect, it resembles inter- trigo and warts, and all are, probably, gene- rated in the same manner, and depend on causes intrinsically alike. The treatment of the complaint comprises two items—prevention, and cure ; prevention of all that excites the morbid growth ; removal of that which has been formed. The preventive treatment is simple aud obvious. The secretions are to be corrected in point of quality; diminished, if excessive, in point of quantity ; and the heat and moisture aud friction of the parts concerned, must be reduced. The means of improving the secretions require no lengthened enumeration here. But I may venture to observe that smart purging is generally requisite. Two or three grains of blue pill, with one of ipecacuanha, may be given every other night, and followed in the morning by a black draught, or by infu- sion of roses and sulphate of magnesia. A very efficient, and a very nasty, purgative is a combination of the sulphate and carbonate of magnesia, with the wine of colchicum, and pimento water. But if condyloma is situated at the margin of the anus, and depends on disease within the rectum, such active ape- rients are, of course, improper, and must be superseded by castor oil, or manna, or some other gentle laxative. The ivarm-bath is another remedy of great utility. That, or the simple vapour-bath, or, if both are un-at- tainable, the hip-bath, should be taken twice or three times a week. And the promotion of a free secretion of urine by salines with the nitrate of potass and a little antimony, or by the liquor potassae, combined with the infusion of taraxacum has appeared to me to be of ser- vice. In directing local treatment, there are two things to be kept in view; first, to restrain the vicious or inordinate discharge, which first gave rise to and afterwards perpetuated the condylomatous growth ; and, secondly, to arrest the nutrition of the latter. It is difficult to overrate the importance of the first step. We may employ escharoties of the severest sort, and inflict great pain with the knife or scissors, and yet make little real progress, if we leave the discharge that excites condyloma or warts to irritate or to regene- rate them. A girl, in the Lock Hospital, had a formidable crop of vascular warts on the labia, nymphae, and the perineum : for two or three months 1 was employed in excising them by liberal instalments, and applying caustic to the bleeding surface. Nothing could be more severe nor more inefficient than the treatment. Fresh verrucae started up like hydras’ heads, and the removal of one crop led to another, as bad or worse. During the whole period, the patient laboured under leucorrhcaa, and used various injections for it. At last she was directed to throw up a strong solution of the nitrate of silver. This arrested the discharge, and the warts quickly disappeared. A short time ago, I was requested by Mr. Bushell, a highly intelligent medical practitioner, to see a lady who was under his care, and affected to a distressing extent with verrucae. She was young, just married, of a stout and rather a sanguineous habit. The external parts were crowded with warts of a vascular character, and leucorrhcea existed. We had little doubt that the complaint arose from excitement of the parts, consequent on matrimony, in a ple- thoric state of the system We agreed to keep the patient on moderate diet, to act freely on the bowels, to employ the lead injection, and to destroy the larger w'arts with the scissors or with escharoties. These means, however, were so painful, that the lady would not continue to submit to them, and, indeed, their effects were not so satisfactory as to lead Mr. Bushell to press their employment. They were abandoned, and the w arts were simply treated with cold water, while vaginal dis- charge w as repressed by injecting : under this plan the lady got quite well. It would be easy to mention other instances illustrative of the necessity of arresting or correcting irri- tating secretions, in order to control the growth of verrucae or of condylomata. On the whole, I am inclined to think that astringent injections into the vagina are pre- ferable to stimulating ones. Those which seem to answer best are the injection of the acetate of lead in water, or in the decoction of poppies—or that of alum in decoction of oak bark. The former may be used of the strength of two drachms to the pint. The infusion of galls is open to objections on the score of cleanliness, and the other vegetable astringents, though useful, are not superior to the combinations I have mentioned. The injections of the sulphate or acetate of zinc, of the sulphate of copper, of the nitrate of silver, of the bichloride of mercury, have their advo- cates, and are, in certain cases, beneficial. The removal of the condylomatous growths that exist, is, of course, an object of impor- tance. The means must vary, with their site,' their size, aud even with their form. If limi-