370 ARSENIC. cles are perfectly independent of the triceps and flexor carpi ulnaris muscles. I am not prepared to say how often they may exist, nor what may be their use, unless to protect the ulnar nerve, and to raise up the capsular ligament and synovial membrane. The sur- geon, however, might be a little surprised, if, in cutting down upon this nerve (with a view of following Scarpa’s example of dividing it, for the cure of neuralgia ; see his Opusculi di Chirurgia, p. 38), a transverse muscle should present itself; for this reason we have mentioned its existence ; for, what in nature’s sports occurs twice, may occur again. The ulnar nerve is easily separated from the cellu- lar tissue, and made to slip over the tuberosity of the condyle, a precaution which ought always to be attended to in excision of the elbow- joint; for this nerve might otherwise be injured: and several such instances have taken place. The outer or radial projection which ex- tends from the front to the back of this region, is composed of the supinator and radial muscles. It is generally described as being formed principally by the supinator radii longus muscle, but this is not exact. The supinator longus muscle presents two distinct shapes ; above the bend of the elbow its superior extremity is flattened sideways, and fills up the space on the outer side of the arm which exists between the triceps, biceps, and brachial muscles ; but when the supinator longus reaches the situation of the head of the radius, it becomes flattened in the opposite direction, from before backwards, taking thus the shape of the subjacent extensor radialis longior muscle, upon the anterior side of which it lies ; and cannot for this reason, form alone, the radial eminence, as many writers assert. The extensor radialis longior has rather a thick belly ; it lies immediately upon part of the supinator radii brevis ; it covers the radial nerve ; it is in contact with the front side of the outer condyle of the humerus, and with the outer border of the brachialis anticus muscle. It is this muscle principally which contributes to form the radial projection. In this situation we find the radial nerve, which first lies on the outer side of the brachialis anticus muscle, and covered by the supinator radii longus; lower down, this nerve is bounded on its inner side by the tendon of the biceps muscle, which separates it from the brachial artery and veins, and from the median nerve. The recurrens radialis artery and veins lie on its inner side. This nerve passes over the supinator radii brevis, where it gives off several branches which supply the neigh- bouring muscles ; and lastly, divides into two principal branches, one of which dives under the supinator radii brevis muscle. The radial nerve is generally surrounded by a good deal of adipose substance ; nevertheless, it will be easily understood, that in dislocations of the head of the radius, this nerve must experience more or less compression, and hence the pain in the thumb and fore-finger can be accounted for. The other muscles, which insert them- selves into the outer condyle and contribute to the formation of this region, as well as to the strength of the radial articulation, by their fibres being intimately connected with its ligaments, are the extensor digitorum com- munis, the extensor carpi ulnaris, and the an- coneus muscle. This last muscle has some- times been considered merely as a part of the triceps muscle, on account of the origin, direction, and insertion of their fibres being nearly similar ; nevertheless, this small muscle is attached chiefly along the outer edge of the ulna from its middle to the top of the ole- cranon, where it is intimately connected to the triceps fibres ; it arises by a small round but strong tendon from the external condyle of the humerus, and passes over the side of the head of the radius ; this tendon gives considerable strength to the articulation. M. Malgaigne has fallen into a singular mistake with regard to this muscle, which he describes as lying on the inside of the olecranon, and as covering the ulnar nerve. The error here is not simply typographical, as it consists in placing the muscle on the wrong side of the articulation. The arteries surrounding the articulation have been already noticed in the operations for aneurism ; it will be, therefore, unneces- sary to dwell on them in this place. It some- times happens in wounds of this region that one of these small arteries is divided, and may be productive of serious bleeding ; attempts have been made to arrest the haemorrhage by enlarging the wound, and securing the mouth of the bleeding vessel; an operation which has sometimes succeeded. Sometimes, how- ever, it is quite impossible to secure the artery; hence many surgeons prefer tying the brachial artery in the arm. In such a proceeding, where should the ligature he placed ? This must depend upon the vessel which is wounded. Suppose, for instance, it were probably the external collateral branch, just above the outer condyle of the humerus ; here it would be prudent to tie the brachial artery high up before it gives off this collateral branch ; if, on the contrary, the bleeding were caused by the injury of the ramus anastomo- ticus, or recurrent branches, tying the artery about two inches above the inner tuberosity of the condyle of the humerus would be suf- ficient ; it is perhaps for not attending to these anatomical reasons, that such haemorrhages have not been arrested by the ligature of the brachial artery. (C. Tarral.) ARMAMENTARIUM, arsenal, Fr., adopted by old surgical writers to denote a general magazine of instruments and surgical apparatus, and hence taken by Scultctus and others as the title of their works treating of all that relates to this province of surgery. ARSENIC, arsenicum,Lat.; ApmviKov,Gr.; Arsenilc, Gcr. Arsenic of commerce is the arsenious acid of the chemist. It exists