365 ARM, BEND OF. the vein in its middle, taking care not to plunge the lancet too deep, lest it should run through and through the vein, and injure the nerve behind it. M. Velpeau 1 says, “ That the ce- phalic vein is accompanied on its side by the external cutaneous nerve, and for some bad reasons states, that nervous accidents are less to be feared in opening this vein than the others; however, further observations will prove that such accidents occur here as well as in the basilic veins, wrhich anatomy easily explains ; and it is difficult to believe that M. Lisfranc2 should affirm that the median cepha- lic vein is the most advantageous for bleeding, because he never found any nerves near it. M. Gerdy adverts to the danger of wounding the radial nerve in very thin persons, while, on the contrary, M. Velpeau3 says, “ This nerve is separated from the humeral artery by the whole thickness of the brachialis anticus and biceps muscles, and sufficiently distant from all the veins to run no risk of being wounded in venesection.” This nerve may certainly be injured in very thin subjects ; but in order to effect this, the operator must thrust his lancet into the vein in a most imprudent manner. The median nerve has sometimes been wounded by careless and ignorant phle- botomists, in the same way that the brachial artery, which lies by its side, has been opened. The use of a broad-pointed lancet is the most effectual means of preventing this accident. The injury of the cutaneous nerves, which probably often occurs, is not always followed by accidents, if we may judge from the fact of their being rarely observed ; such cases, however, do sometimes present themselves, and may cause great pain to the patient, and considerable injury to the reputation of the surgeon, although he ought not, perhaps in the majority of cases, to incur any blame whatever. In a chapter “ on the injury of the nerve in bleeding,” Mr. C. Bell4 says, “ The convulsive attacks, and the clenching of the jaws in violence, seem to bear no relation to the state of inflammation in the wound. They are even greatly aggravated after the healing of the w-ound.” This last assertion is confirmed by three interesting cases which Dr. Valentine Mott has kindly communicated to me, and which he intends publishing. Dr. Mott calls this affection of the arm “ trauma- tic neuralgia it appears some time after the simple operation of bleeding, and is explained by a branch of the cutaneous nerve being in- volved in the cicatrice of the vein, and thus probably pinched or tightened by it. Dr. Mott cured these three patients by a neat removal of the cicatrice. In one instance this talented surgeon traced a twig of the nerve into the excised cicatrice. Several similar examples are also recorded. Scarpa5 has de- 1 Anatomic Chirurg., tome ii. p. 419. 2 See Malgaigne’s Op. cit., p. 442, tome ii. 3 Op. cit., p. 424, 5. 4 A System of Operative Surgery founded upon the Basis of Anatomy, p. 68. London, 1807. 3 Opusculi di Chirurgia, vol. iii. p. 18. Pavia, 1832. scribed many cases in his “ minor works” on surgery, to which we will briefly allude, as they are never quoted, although from the pen of so elegant and learned a writer. Scarpa asks the question whether these “ terrible neuralgic affections” may not be explained, by the lancet or other body', in wounding the nerve, making an opening in the covering or neurilema through which the pulp of the nerve protrudes, is strangled, inflames, becomes hard, and enlarges! Scarpa quotes, from the au- thority of Pouteau, the case of a nun who was bled in the foot; a small hard cicatrice followed the puncture of the vein, which was the seat of most acute and constant neuralgia: the pain extended up the leg, thigh, and to other parts of the body. Pouteau made a crucial incision in this cicatrice, but to no effect ; the cicatrice having been removed, the patient was instantly cured. Scarpa saw a somewhat similar case in 1811. A peasant woman was pricked in the leg by a thorn, the wound healed quickly, but soon became the seat of excruciating pain, which extended up the thigh and arm ; this neuralgia had already ex- isted ten years. Scarpa found a small hard cicatrice in the situation of the puncture, which was acutely painful to the slightest touch ; from its situation, he considered the saphena nerve to be the cause of this severe affection ; the cicatrice was removed by Pro- fessor Jacopi, and upon examination was found to contain a nervous filament, which was compressed and disorganized by this hard cicatrice. The patient was instantly cured. Scarpa was consulted by Signor Mondella for a neuralgia of the arm, which followed vene- section : in this case the pain extended to the thumb and fore-finger and to the scapula, and was so intense, that it deprived him of rest by night as well as by day. Scarpa discovered a small, hard and prominent tumor where the lancet had opened the vein ; pressure “ upon this little tumor produced excruciating pain as rapid as an electric shock.” This gentle- man objected to having the part removed by the knife ; caustic was therefore used, which finally put an end to this most violent neural- gia. According to Scarpa, that estimable surgeon, M. A. Petit of Lyons, cured a young lady of a similar affection, by the application of caustic to the cicatrice. Pott used to men- tion, says Mr. S. Cooper', two cases of dis- tracting pains following bleeding : “ he recom- mended the total division of the nerve, which he supposed was partially divided by the lancet. Dr. Monro relates similar cases in which such treatment proved successful.” Mr. Swan2 relates the case of a lady who for two days was in convulsions produced by acute pain following bleeding at the arm. Dr. Wilson, who attended this patient, made a transverse incision through the part punctured by the lancet, which, not being sufficiently deep, 1 Surgical Dictionary, p. 239. s On Morbid local Affections of the Nerves. See also Scarpa and Descot for this ease.