ABORTION. to its termination. He also strongly insists on the necessity of conjugal separation during the first five months of utero-gestation. This last opinion is also judicious in all cases of threatened abortion ; and the non-observance of it is a frequent cause of this accident, as I have already stated. Haemorrhage must be arrested as speedily as possible, as it weakens the woman, diminishes uterine energy, often destroys the foetus, and frequently ends in abortion. This is effected by the contraction of the coats of the blood-vessels, or by the formation of coagula. Syncope, which often alarms unnecessarily, arrests the rapidity of the circulation, and favours the formation of coagula. Dr. Denman observes, on this point—“ Cordials are not, therefore, to be hastily given to those who faint from loss of blood ; unless the faintness should continue so long as to make us apprehensive for the immediate safety of the patientIt is im- portant to remember that, in abortion, there is a separation of the decidua, or chorion, from the uterus, and an effusion of blood, of greater or less extent, between the separated parts, or between the chorion and amnios, or into the cavity of the amnios. The separation be- tween the decidua and uterus is perhaps most frequent near the neck of the organ, on ac- count of its dependent position ; but it may occur at any part of the uterine cavity. (Bou- deloque2.) If the blood escapes from any part of the superior portion of the uterine cavity, it cannot readily pass through the ori- fice of the uterus ; it acts as a foreign body, excites irritation and contraction of the womb, by which it is finally expelled. Astringent medicines, and those which di- minish the action of the heart, such as digi- talis, colchicum, tartarized antimony, hydro- cyanic acid, &c., are administered with a view to arrest uterine haemorrhage. Remedies of the latter class are, however, of doubtful effi- cacy in cases of abortion. Digitalis has been recommended in drachm doses by high au- thority, but I believe it is seldom, if ever, pre- scribed at present in such quantities. Astrin- gents are, in general, preferred after vene- section, and the infusion of roses, with an additional quantity of sulphuric acid, is an old remedy, very much employed by a great number of practitioners, but, according to my experience, it is a very inefficient or rather useless medicine. I agree with Dr. Blundell, “ it is an excellent remedy when the battle is won.” The same remark applies to catechu, kino, sulphate of alumen, &c. I cannot agree, however, with Dr. Denman, that astringents “ have no power in stopping haemorrhages from the uterus3.” I have repeatedly ob- served the greatest success follow the em- ployment of the acetate of lead, dilute acetic acid, and the sedative solution of opium, with ’ Denman's Obstetrician's Vademecum, &c., edited by M. Ryan, M. I)., 1835. 2 Traite desHe mrrhagies Utilities, &c.. 1831. 3 Obstetrician’s Vademecum, 1835, p. 158. distilled water ; but in much larger doses than those advised in works on materia medica. (Ijc Plumbi acetatis gr. vi—xx ; Acidi acetici dil. 3i—ij ; Aquae destillatae ^iij—\) ; Liq. opii sedativi 3ss—3j; Syrupi simplicis jjj. M. Dosis sem-uncia singulis, secundis, vel tertiis horis.) When this medicine is rejected by the stomach, Dr. Dewees orders it to be injected into the rectum, in the proportion of twenty grains, with a drachm of laudanum, and three ounces of water.—American Cyclopaedia. The dilute sulphuric acid, combined with digitalis and colchicum, is often highly useful. I have also repeatedly found nauseating doses of tar- tarized antimony arrest haemorrhage, when all other means had failed. The tinct. ferri mu- riatis is also a powerful astringent, and may be employed in the absence of uterine con- gestion. The powder of secale cornntum with an aromatic, in doses of three grains, every second or third hour, is a remedy capable of arresting uterine haemorrhage, when slight, and also menorrhagia and leueorrheea. Tan- nin, in the dose of a grain or two, in a pill, in the second hour, is strongly advised by some foreign authors. In addition to all the means mentioned in the preceding remarks, the tampon, or plug, is a most efficient auxiliary. Notwithstanding the strong recommendations of the French, German, Italian, and American obstetricians, I regret to state that it is too seldom applied in Great Britain and Ireland, even at the present period. It is a remarkable circum- stance, that a remedy advised by Hippocrates, Moschion, Paulus yEginetus, Hoffman, Leroux, Desormeaux, Lachapelle, Capuron, Gardien, Velpeau, and many others on the continent of Europe ; and in this country, by Smellie, Denman, Hamilton, Burns, Ingleby, and many others ; and by Dewees and the American obstetricians,—is by no means so generally em- ployed as it ought to be in the British domi- nions. The use of the tampon or plug is, however, highly beneficial in abortion. The scientific reader is aware that the uterus, in the second, third, and fourth months of gra- vidity, is firm and undilatable in its tissue, and comparatively small in its cavity ; and that it offers unconquerable resistance to sudden di- latation at these periods of pregnancy. It therefore follows, that when pressure is made on the uterine orifice, by means of the tampon or plug, of lint, charpie, muslin, or other soft material, and the vagina firmly plugged, very little blood can be effused into the compara- tively small cavity of the uterus, from the second to the fourth or fifth month of preg- nancy. But the dilatability of the uterus is considerably increased after the fifth or sixth month of pregnancy, and still the plug may be employed, though the haemorrhage will be more profuse. It need scarcely be observed, that from the seventh to the ninth month, the dilatability of the womb is so great, and its cavity so large, that the remedy under con- sideration is of doubtful efficacy, and, in my opinion, ought not to be employed, as it may