466 BANDAGE. Fig. 152. with two handkerchiefs folded as cravatcs, may- be readily combined with the above, and addi- tional power be thus obtained. This bandage is also used in fractures of the neck of the scapula, and of the acromion, omitting the pad for the axilla in the latter case. Dislocations of the clavicle too are treated by it. In that very troublesome accident, displace- ment of the acromial end of the clavicle, an additional broad band is necessary, passing under the elbow, and over the shoulder of the injured side, and tied or buckled tight enough to preclude the possibility ol motion between the end of the clavicle and the acro- mion ; where it crosses the shoulder, a soft cushion should be placed beneath it. Fracture of the body of the scapula is ma- Fig. 151. camphorated spirit, is next laid upon the frac- tured bone, and the second roller taken up ; commencing in the opposite axilla, it is carried across the breast, over the compress and shoulder, and passing down, behind the arm and under the elbow, again mounts upon the breast; its course is then continued under the sound shoulder, across the back, a second time over the compress and fractured clavicle, and down in front of the arm to the elbow, whence it ascends obliquely across the back to the axilla, where it commenced, and the same course is repeated till the roller terminates. The turns are secured by pins or stitches and the hand supported by a sling. It is, however, very difficult to keep the folds in place, and many attempts have been made to provide a bandage upon the same principle, more compact in its structure, and less complex in its application. Boyer in France, and Mr. Earle in this country, have contrived ingenious forms of apparatus with this view ; but the most compact, and at the same time most simple bandage for this pur- pose is that represented at Fig. 152, in the construction of which a cushion for the axilla and two handkerchiefs are all that is re- quired ; the cushion being inserted beneath the axilla, the arm is suspended in a sling, differing slightly from the common form. The handkerchief is reversed, so that the corners support the hand, and the doubled edge enve- lopes the elbow, whence the posterior long extremity is carried up behind the back, to meet the anterior ascending in front, and be tied over the opposite shoulder. This is by no means a needless distinction ; the action of the common form of sling is to support the hand and fore-arm, that of the one just described to elevate the elbow and shoulder, which it does most effectually ; where it rests upon the shoulder a soft pad must be interposed ; the fore-arm and elbow are further included in another doubled handkerchief, the ends of which are carried round the waist to confine the elbow closely to the side. If the outer handkerchief be well attached to the sling by pins or stitches, the bandage may remain un- disturbed until the fracture is consolidated, merely tightening the sling and waist-band occasionally. In comminuted fracture of the clavicle, or in any case where more than ordinary diffi- culty in maintaining the bone in its proper position occurs, Brasdor’s bandage (Fig. 150), or M. Mayor’s substitute for it (Fig. 153), made Fig. 153.