ANATOMY, MORBID. the production of vessels in coagulable lymph, which is in process of becoming organized, has in consequence been made the subject of curious speculations. It has been supposed that vessels were spontaneously produced in the organizable material, and made their way to the vessels of the original structures with which they found means to inosculate, and wandering bubbles of air passing through the plastic material, have been referred to as the agents by which the canals destined to become blood-vessels are formed. Softening of textures, as the result of in- flammation, instead of being a step to future organization, and, consequently, subservient to the preservation of the life of the part, is sometimes more closely allied to sphacelus, and may indeed be regarded as the com- mencement of that state. We see this kind of softening in muscles and other soft parts which have received severe contusion, and are about to slough. The lungs, liver, spleen, and other internal organs, when they have been the seat of a severe and fatal inflamma- tion, are often found in a state of softening, which appears to be of this kind—the most striking examples of which are, perhaps, to be seen in the pneumonia of the dying, and in that condition of the spleen which is common in pernicious fevers. When sphacelus or gangrene has actually taken place, softness, marked by great lacera- bility, is the notorious consequence. There are other cases of softening probably allied to some of those which I have just enu- merated, which it seems necessary to men- tion, since the mode in which they are brought about is not very apparent, and the existence of any thing like inflammation in their production may be questioned. I allude to the softening of inter-articular cartilages, and of the inter-vertebral substance, and to some forms of softening of the brain, which seem to belong to this class. In these in- stances, the vitality of the parts is evidently reduced ; but the effect of a preternatural stimulus, which is, perhaps, essential to une- quivocal inflammation, is not to be discovered in the softened part, although it may be very apparent in some of the neighbouring parts. The opposite state, or preternatural hard- ening, may, like preternatural softening, be produced in a variety of modes. It some- times concurs with the wasting of parts ; the fluid and soft parts being removed, whilst the solid are not only more or less left behind, but are brought into closer approximation, as we see in the round ligament of the liver, and in the remains of the umbilical arteries and urachus. It may also concur with hypertro- phy and perversion of form, as in hardening of the spleen, and hardening of the cellular membrane and skin ; but, in these cases, the inflammatory or other process affecting the intimate texture of the parts is more impor- tant. than hypertrophy, or distortion. It is as the result of inflammation that we meet 201 with the most frequent, and perhaps the most important instances of induration. As inflammation has been already described as the prolific source of a variety of forms of softening, I must offer a few remarks respect- ing its mode of operation in producing the opposite effect. In recently inflamed parts, the induration may be rather apparent than real, since the fluids may be increased, and the solids weakened, the increased resistance being merely the effect of tension : in this way injured limbs often feel hard from mere effusion : some forms of oedema durum appear to be of this description. When we have a real induration of parts resulting from inflam- mation, it is, in general, not an immediate effect, but the result of a process requiring more or less time for its completion ; the pro- duct of inflammation has been poured out, soft indeed, in the first instance, but being susceptible of becoming a permanent tissue, it has united with that in which it has been de- posited, and participated in its organization ; but when this is accomplished, like other newly formed parts, it wastes, its vessels contract, the fluid parts are removed, whilst the solid parts are brought into that closer union on which induration essentially depends. This induration of the superadded product of inflammation, not unfrequently, also occasions that of the original structure in which it is deposited : the original structure being com- pressed by the new, with which it is impli- cated, likewise contracts, and, in contracting, becomes indurated : there is, therefore, with this induration of an organ, a real diminution of size, notwithstanding the additional sub- stance which inflammation has occasioned. The liver furnishes the best and perhaps the most frequent specimens of this induration which seems to be common to all our organs : the induration of the brain, described by Pinel, jun., Rostan, and others, appears to be one of the instances of it. The most striking instances of induration, which take place as a consequence of inflam- mation, are those in which the affected struc- ture becomes penetrated with earthy matter, constituting what is commonly called ossifica- tion. There are, however, two very different states to which this term is applied. In the one, the indurated structure has the organi- zation, as well as the composition of bone ; in the other, the latter only; and may, therefore, with more propriety, be termed petrification, as distinguished from ossifica- tion. Induration is the common and distinctive characteristic of one form of disease of that class to which most, if not all, malignant dis- eases belong. It is, in fact, so striking an attribute of true scirrhus, that formerly when the language of morbid anatomists was less exact than at present, various indurations of a totally distinct nature were confounded to- gether under this term. It is not only the new growth which is remarkable for its hard- ness, but also the neighbouring parts con-