AMPUTATION. 178 operation by single flap ineligible, whenever it can be avoided. The oval method will obviate this objection, and ought to be preferred. The oval method consists in an oval incision of the integuments, which are dissected and reflected back to the extent of two inches ; and in a circular division of the muscles. KNEE-JOINT. The question of amputation at the lmee-joint has been long regarded by the generality of surgeons as finally settled. Numerous success- ful cases, however, in which this operation has been resorted to of late years, either from ne- cessity or the individual views of the surgeon, have again brought it under consideration. Some very eminent practitioners have thought that the amputation of the leg at the knee- joint has been too indiscriminately proscribed, while others, going still further, blame the timidity that has prevented surgeons from boldly penetrating into large articulations, and assert its superiority over amputation as performed in the continuity of the bones, either of the leg or thigh. The arguments against amputating in joints, especially of large size, have been laid down in the first division of the present article, and though we still adhere to our objections to these ampu- tations, unless as exceptional proceedings, where an unusual prospect of success, or an unusual necessity might justify us in deviating from what we deem a safer course, still we see no reason against briefly stating the argu- ments of those who consider that this operation has been too lightly condemned. They affirm, that so long as the periosteum of a bone, or the articular cartilage covering a bone, is uninjured, that no bad consequence can arise from exposure to the air, as these coverings afford a perfect protection against inflammation ; that there is no synovial mem- brane spread over the cartilages; that it is almost always possible to save a sufficient quantity of the surrounding integuments to form a good and ample covering for the ex- posed condyles ; that the wound is not so large as some imagine, the flap being formed almost exclusively of integument, which ad- heres most readily to the condyloid surfaces ; and finally, that the disarticulation of the leg leaves not only a good stump, but that it pre- serves the mobility of the head of the thigh- bone in the acetabulum, which is lost when the amputation is performed in the continuity of the femur. When the amputation is per- formed at the knee-joint, the individual walks with an artificial leg, as if he had a stiff knee. But when the thigh is amputated, progression is by no means so free : he walks as if the head of the thigh-bone was ankylosed. The surgeon will make his own estimate of these arguments. The operation is performed in different ways, according to the method pre- ferred. AMPUTATION AT THE KNEE-JOINT. Circular method.—An incision round the limb, at * the distance of three or four fin- gers’ breadth below the patella, divides the skin and subjacent adipose tissue down to the muscle, (x, y, fig. 42, or f e, fig. 43); it is dissected up, and turned upon itself like a sleeve ; all the thickness of the adipose tissue must be preserved to it. An assistant draws it upwards towards the joint; the ligament of the patella is divided, and the knife enters the articulation, cutting the lateral ligaments. The joint is now thrown open, the semilunar cartilages are detached, and the crucial ligaments cut. The operation is terminated by cutting down, at one stroke, all the soft parts of the ham, to the edge of the circular incision first made through the in- teguments. The popliteal artery, and any other small vessel that may give blood, are then secured ; the parts are sponged clean, and the lips are brought together transversely, or in the direction of the large diameter, from one condyle to the other. They may also be united from front to back, in which case, the cicatrix would be shielded from pressure against the artificial leg, as it would thus be made to correspond to the depression between the condyles. The circular method will in general be found to be the best; but cases may occur where, in consequence of disorganization of the integuments, it will be impossible to ob- tain a sufficient covering by any other than the flap method, which may be had recourse to, with one or with two flaps, according to circumstances. With one flap.—Hoin used to perform this operation by extending the limb, and making a semilunar incision of the integuments, below the patella, beginning below the condyle on one side, and termi- nating at the other. The second stroke opens the articu- lation, cutting the lateral and crucial ligaments. The knife then turned on the flat, on the back of the tibia and fibula, cuts out the flap from the muscles and in- teguments of the calf. The danger of a denudation of the bone in this mode is much greater, as is also the difficulty of making and main- taining proper co- aptation of the lips of the wound. Fig. 45. Amputation by double flap at the lcnee-joint ; the anterior flap, containing the patella is reflected upon the thigh; the posterior flap containing the popliteal artery, vein, and nerve, is hanging down. With two flaps.—This proceeding, first re-