14 EAR, AND HEARING, DISEASES OF. laris, and i3 not uncommonly excited by den- tal irritation. Notwithstanding1 the severity of the symp- toms, the prognosis is quite favourable. Treatment.—In the first stage leeches are to be applied, and the after bleeding kept up. This will serve to moderate the severity of the symptoms, if it do not procure resolution. When it is found this cannot be effected, means are to be taken to promote the matu- ration of the abscess. For this purpose emol- lient poultices are to be laid over the ear, warm almond oil being previously dropped into the mouth of the auditory passage. On changing the poultices, fomentations with warm water are very agreeable to the patient, as well as useful. The abscess generally bursts spontaneous- ly into the auditory passage, though some- times it makes its way between the auricle and mastoid process. If within reach, it should be opened, and after evacuation of the matter, the auditory passage is to be kept clean by occasional gentle syringing with tepid water, and afterwards with a weak solution of the acetate of lead. At the commencement of the disease, the diet should be restricted, and the bowels kept open by saline cathartics. Injuries and Diseases of the Membrana Tympani. The membrana tympani has been found congenitally absent or deviating from its usual size, shape, and position. The circumstance that a hole is sometimes met with as a defect in original formation appears, as Huschke ob- serves, to be what led Rivinus and others to maintain the existence of a hiatus as regular. Very loud sounds falling upon the ear, espe- cially when unprepared for them, have fre- quently occasioned deafness ; and it has been supposed that in such cases the membrana tympani has been torn. Mr. Swan1 gives the following case in the patient's own words :— “ In reply to Mr. Swan’s questions, Captain Norton begs to state, that blood came from the left ear only, it being in a right line to- wards the percussion; yet the singing or in- tense buzzing was equal in both ears. . . . The first day Captain N. could not hear any- thing, and the second day could only hear a person who placed his mouth close to the ear, and spoke in a modulated tone; could not hear the high notes of a fife ; could not dis- tinguish the tune ; he could not hear the boatswain’s call (whistle). “ Some four or five weeks afterwards Cap- tain Norton was again in action, and was close to the muzzle of a gun when fired, and the re- port most completely restored his hearing for two days, when the singing again commenced. Captain N. is of opinion that his hearing is as acute as ever, and it is only the singing which confuses sounds ; for when one person only is speaking, he can hear him tolerably well; but when three or four are speaking at the same 1 London Medical Gazette, vol. v. p. 8. lf!30. time, he cannot distinguish any one : he can hear a distant gun or bell as well as any one. “ Portsmouth, August 10th, 1829.” From the circumstance that blood issued from one of the ears, Mr. Swan thinks the membrana tympani must have been torn ; he, however, does not appear to have made any ocular examination ot the part, and it is to be observed, that the function of both ears suf- fered though blood came from one only. But admitting the membrana tympani to have been ruptured in the case above related, over excitement or concussion of the nervous parts of the ear must be looked to as the principal cause of the disturbance of function1. Wounds of the membrana tympani.—That such wounds have a great tendency to close is known by the frequent failure of the at- tempt to establish a permanent opening by mere puncture of the membrane. Indeed, Deleau tells us that an artificial perforation of the membrana tympani remains permanent only when it actually becomes fistulous. This character of the opening pre-supposes a mor- bid state of the mucous lining of the cavity of the tympanum—a condition which usually at- tends, and, therefore, accounts for the perma- nency of perforation from ulceration. A case of wound of the membrana tympani which healed favourably, is related by Loder2. A woman, set. 23, while picking her right ear with a darning needle, received a push on her arm, by which the needle tvas forced deep into the ear. The pain produced was so great, as to render the woman almost senseless. The severity of the pain, however, gradually sub- sided, and next day, when she presented her- self to Loder, she complained of the mitigated pain combined with a darting and buzzing in her ears. The steam from a boiling decoction of elder-flowers was ordered to be sent into the ear through a funnel, and the ear after- wards to be stopped with cotton wool. The pain went off in the evening of this day, but buzzing remained for some days longer, and at last went off also. Cotton-wool was worn in the ear all the time. That the membrana tympani was really pierced Loder ascertained, not by direct inspection, but by making the patient fill her mouth with tobacco smoke, and then with her nose and mouth closed, force it into the Eustachian tubes, whereupon the smoke issued in a thick stream from the in- jured ear. Six weeks after the same experi- ment was tried, but no smoke escaped from the ear. That this was owing to the wound in the membrana tympani being healed, and not to any obstruction of the Eustachian tube, 1 See on this subject Lesclievin, “ Memoire sur la theorie des Maladies de l’Oreille, ct sur les moyens, uc la Chirurgie pent employer pour leur curation;” rst published in 1763, but contained in “ Memoircs sur les sujets proposes pour les prix de l’Academie Royale de Chirurgie.” Nouv. Ed. tom. iv. part i. Paris, 1819. 2 Journal fur die Chirurgie, Geburtshulfe und ge- richtliche Arzneikunde. Bd. III. St. 4. Jena, 1802. pp 595—597.