ANKYLOSIS. 311. will then be to procure such a position of the limb as shall render it most useful when the recovery has been perfected. Thus, if anky- losis is about to take place in the elbow, or any of the finger-joints, the finger or arm should be kept in a state of semiflexion. If the knee be threatened, it ought, if possible, to have slight flexion : it should not be quite straight, because, when one knee is stiff, it is an advantage in walking to have some short- ening of the affected limb. Beyond attention to these points, the surgeon has nothing more to do than to watch the slow process by which the limb is restored to all the usefulness of which it is now capable. It is fortunate that we have more agents at our command to prevent or to remove anky- losis than to promote it. In treating what may be termed, to distinguish it from the preceding variety, curable ankylosis, our first object must be to ascertain the original lesion of which we are attempting to remove the result. If this be effected, it will not be diffi- cult to discover suitable methods of treatment, some of which belong so entirely to other branches of surgery, that it is unnecessary to do more than indicate them here. Thus, where a contraction of the skin after a burn or an ulcer is the immediate cause, the cica- trix ought to be divided. Where the joint is rendered motionless by an exostosis, the new formation ought to be removed, if its removal can be effected with safety to the articular cavity. Where an aneurism has induced an- kylosis the artery should be tied at the proper place ; where a tumour impedes the move- ments of the joints, it ought, if practicable, to be extirpated. Should any stiffness continue after the adoption of these measures, the method of treatment indicated below for rigidity of synovial membrane, ligament, &c., will be applicable and rarely unsuccessful. When a contraction of fascia is the cause of the ankylosis, Baron Dupuytren has shown that the knife may be used with advantage for the division of the restraining bridle. In the ankylosis of the knee-joint, dependent on contraction of the fascia, and the prolongations which it sends to the knee-joint, Professor Frdriep condemns the resort to a similar ope- ration, and trusts for a cure to extension. It is to be feared, however, that extension alone will be always a tedious and often an unsuccessful method ; nor do these appear to be any very strong objections to the use of the knife. The operation would, in all pro- bability, be free from danger; its difficulty, to a competent anatomist, would not be great, and the success with which the corresponding operation has been performed on the finger leads to the anticipation of a happy result. In the after-treatment of such a case, care must be taken to keep the limb as much ex- tended as possible, to commence passive mo- tion at an early period, and to watch the patient for some time after his recovery. It is not necessary, however, to employ violent extension, or to commence passive motion immediately after the operation. The divided ends of the fascia will probably reunite, but the connecting medium will for some time be soft and easily extensible, so as to admit of the limb being restored, by gentle but steady measures, to its natural shape and mobility. Where the ankylosis has resulted from le- sion of muscle or tendon, a cure is not often attainable. It is of course impossible to re- store a muscle or tendon which has sloughed away, and it is often almost as impossible to remove the paralysis which has paved the way for ankylosis. In this latter case, how- ever, when the paralysis is recent, a successful effort may be made to prevent the super- vention of the affection by substituting for the destroyed muscular force, a permanently act- ing mechanical power, in the manner de- scribed in the case of Sir Charles Bell, already detailed. When ankylosis is threatened, as a consequence of thecal abscess, it has been re- commended to commence motion, either ac- tive or passive, at an early period after the evacuation of the matter, and thus to break up the adhesions which are in process of formation between the free surfaces of the theca. The recommendation is more easy to give than safe to act upon. The theca of a tendon is in fact a synovial membrane, and shares in the proneness of that tissue to inflammatory action. The commencement, therefore, of motion at an early period after thecal abscess, is a short and efficacious me- thod for the renewal of the painful malady from which the patient was beginning to es- cape. “ Haud inexpertus loquor.” Some time ago, having seen, in rapid succession, several hands which had been rendered use- less by ankylosis of the fingers consequent upon thecal abscess, I was induced to recom- mend a man who was recovering from a very severe attack of this disease, to move his fin- gers about gently, and at intervals during the day. The next morning, when I visited him, I found him in great pain, his hand and arm tensely swollen, and presenting all the "symp- toms of a recurrence of the disease. Happily the inflammation was speedily subdued, and no material evil resulted ; but I did not again venture to provoke the irritable temper of a theca. It must not be supposed that I con- demn the resort to motion after thecal abscess; but I am very sure that it ought not to be employed for some time after the evacuation of the matter, nor until the inflammatory ac- tion has fairly subsided. It may then be pro- secuted steadily, though gently, and, with the aid of measures shortly to be described as appropriate to rigid joints in general, will often succeed in restoring partially the mo- bility of the fingers. Where the ankylosis has resulted from in- flammation of cellular membrane, the first object must of course be to subdue any remaining inflammatory action. That effected, we have to promote the absorption of the deposit which has taken place, and thus to restore extensi-