465 BANDAGE. to the edges of the opening for the penis, and tied to the rings at tnc mouth of the catheter, will answer as well as the rings seen in the engraving. Another contrivance for the same purpose consists of a wooden ring, large enough to em- brace the penis, which is confined upon the pubis by four tapes, passing up before and behind the pelvis to a waist-band ; three nar- rower tapes, attached to the ring, are brought forward and tied to the mouth of the catheter. The French have invented a somewhat similar apparatus, made of elastic gum, in order that the varying diameters of the penis may be ac- commodated. Weiss's bracelet for retaining the catheter is ingeniously contrived to answer the same purpose. For retaining the catheter in the female urethra, a T bandage will suffice. Of apparatus for retaining fractured bones in their natural situation, one or two varieties only belong to the present subject. In fractures of the lower jaw, that bone is supported, and the splint and compress con- fined to it, by means of the four-tailed bandage (fronde d quatre chefs) already mentioned under the head of confining bandages. It is seen applied for this intention, Fig. 149. The Fig. 149. rest of tho apparatus being properly adjusted (see Fracture of the jaw), the middle of the sling- is placed upon the chin, and the two heads trom the front of the jaw carried backwards to the nape, where they cross, and are afterwards brought round the head ; the two heads from beneath the jaw are drawn up on either side to the crown, crossed, and again passed under the jaw to give the requisite support; at the points of intersection a few stitches are necessary to retain the bandage in place. For fracture of the neck and condyles of the jaw, a bandage differing a little from the above is described by the older writers, under the name of capistrum, by the French as le chevcstre. The four-tailed bandage will answer quite as well, if the support is made to act directly upon the angles of the jaw-. This bandage is also necessary after the reduction of a dislo- cation of the jaw. VOL. i. A fractured clavicle is also treated by ban- dage. A double figure of 8 bandage to draw back the shoulders, the arm being supported in a sling, was the practice formerly adopted in these cases ; but the rollers are apt to be- come roped and excoriate the edges of the axilla, and Brasdor suggested the bandage which bears his name as an improvement. Fig. 150. is Brasdor’s bandage, consisting of Fig. 150. a back-piece of stout leather softly cushioned, with two wrell padded straps attached to the sides, and a belt, running along its low'er mar- gin, to surround the waist and fix it in its proper situation. (Jne of the straps is passed under each axilla, and returns over the shoulder to be buckled to the upper part of the back-piece. The back-piece is usually divided down the middle, and the two portions connected by a lace in order that it may fit persons of various sizes. Drawing back the shoulders alone, however, is not the principle upon which fracture of the clavicle should be treated (see art. Fracture) ; the indications which every form of bandage should fulfil are three, to elevate the shoulder of the injured side, carry it out from the body, and throw it back, to produce extension of the clavicle and bring its overlapping ends in contact. These were the views advanced by Desault, and upon these principles his bandage, Fig. 151, is constructed. Two single-headed rollers, nine yards in length, and a wedge-shaped pad for the axilla, are required for its formation. The pad is placed in the arm-pit and secured by two ribands attached to it, which are tied over the opposite shoulder; the elbow is brought forward, lifted upward, and pressed inward against the chest, thus making the hu- merus act as a lever upon the pad in the axilla, to extend the fractured clavicle ; being sup- ported in this position, with the elbow bent, one of the rollers is carried round the chest and upper arm, drawing it more tightly as it approaches the elbow ; a compress, dipped in II H