249 FRACTURE. they become foreign bodies ; mostly, how- ever, their connexions are extensive and their life is maintained, and they are capable of contributing to the repair of the fracture. Comminuted fractures, when open, may always be expected to be attended with extensive suppurations. Luxation is another important accident which sometimes complicates fractures : it generally precedes the fracture ; but there are certain cases in which the fracture takes precedence, as in the luxation of the ulna backwards, which is preceded by fracture of the coronoid process; and in most luxations of ankle. The vertebrae are usually broken and luxated simultaneously. The complica- tion may be of a serious nature, when the dis- located fragment does not afford purchase for the application of the means of reduction ; and the frequent failure of the attempt at reduction, when the consolidation of the frac- ture is firm enough to admit of the application of force to the whole bone, is well-known. The last complication to w'hich 1 shall di- rect attention is that in which, either because the bone has been extensively denuded of the periosteum, or because it has been severely contused, a portion of the shaft of a bone, independently of detached splinters, dies, and thus becomes a foreign body, for the removal of which nature is under the necessity of setting up a tedious and exhausting process of exfoliation. Enough may be gathered of the proportionate frequency of open fractures from the tables at page 243. Numerous constitutional circumstances are presented to our minds as serving to com- plicate the nature of a fracture. The health, the age, and sex of the sufferer require much consideration ; but as these affect the treat- ment almost exclusively, we shall defer the consideration of them. SYMPTOMS AND DIAGNOSIS. After the general account of the causes and varieties of fracture, that of the symptoms and diagnosis requires next to be considered. Of course, the fact of a recent blow, or a great muscular effort, or the known existence of any cause of absorption or wasting of bone, as cancer, is not to be omitted as a presump- tive sign of fracture. The actual symptoms by which we recognize the existence of a fracture are the rational or physiological, as pain, and a more or less com- plete inability to move the affected part ; and the sensible or physical signs. The latter are the loss of the natural form of the part, unnatural mobility of the bone at the fracture, and crepitus. The rational signs of fracture, though often worthy of attention, are never to be relied upon. The pain is often of use in directing us to the seat of the fracture when the physical signs are little marked ; yet, as it certainly arises from the injury of the soft parts, and does not necessarily accompany mere fracture, it is rather of the nature of a presumptive sign. Difficulty of vo- luntarily moving the part is an equally equivocal symptom, because it also is often the result of mere contusion. The physical signs possess a very different value. Where they are certainly present, they at once set- tle the question respecting the existence of a fracture. Cases, however, are not very un- common in which their appreciation is diffi- cult, or even impossible, without using such vio- lence, for the purpose of ascertaining their presence, as is not justifiable under existing cir- cumstances. “ Sometimes,” says Boyer1, “the fractured bone is situated so deeply, and sur- rounded by masses of muscle of such thick- ness, that the solution of continuity is felt with difficulty, and crepitation cannot be made sensible. If, in such a case, the dis- placement be inconsiderable, as in certain fractures of the neck of the femur, the na- ture of the case may easily be mistaken. Fractures of the bones of the fore-arm and of the leg, when one of the two remains intact, being sometimes without displacement, are then difficult to recognize ; the sound bone, serving to support that which is broken, op- poses, to a certain extent, a displacement, and prevents a sensible depravation in the con- formation of the limb. Finally, when the surgeon is not called in sufficiently early, and inflammatory swelling about the fractured parts has already taken place, the existence of the fracture can often not be verified. In this case, where is the practitioner to whom it has not happened to hesitate, before decid- ing whether there were a fracture ? Besides, even though he should succeed in recognizing the fracture immediately, he should, in this case, await the cessation of the accidents, before proceeding to an exact reduction. When, in spite of the most attentive exami- nation, the surgeon cannot satisfy himself re- specting a fracture, the existence of which he strongly suspects, he should apply upon the limb a retentive apparatus, and employ the means proper to combat the inflammatory tension and tumefaction. After some days, he either discovers his error, and removes the apparatus, the application of which is attended with no inconvenience, or he becomes satis- fied of the reality of the fracture, and con- tinues the care it demands.” There are not a few instances in which it is both unnecessary and mischievous to inflict suffering in order to determine the existence of fracture ; in these cases it should suffice, so far as suspicions of the injury exist, that the proper treatment of fracture be pursued w'ith little or great precision, according as the case may demand. We should remember, that every painful examination of an injury does harm ; and that the importance of defined dia- gnosis is great only in proportion as indications are requisite, or indispensable to determine the plan of treatment in a given case. When it becomes necessary to distinguish between fracture and some other kind of injury, as a luxation, the pain of manipulation 1 Boyer, Mai. Chir. tom. iii. p. 27.