AUSCULTATION. M2 By their modus operandi they tend, in the first place, to counteract laxity of the general tissues of a region ; secondly, by diminishing the capacity of the blood-vessels, especially of the capillaries, and retarding the flow of blood through an inflamed part, they reduce inflam- mation in certain stages of its course ; to the same effect their styptic virtues are to be ascribed (see Styptics); and, thirdly, they restrain discharges, whether natural or mor- bid, secretory or excretory, by narrowing the orifices of those ducts or vessels through which they exude. The astringent operation of cold applied to a surface of much extent is not very lasting ; the local effect is soon followed by general reaction, which speedily overcomes the tem- porary resistance opposed to it, and persever- ance in the remedy, under such circumstances, becomes injurious. The tonic action of the more powerful as- tringents, as we have before remarked, is like- wise transient; it results from a simple corru- gation of fibres, and not from any real increase of the vital powers. The remedial operation of astringents ought, therefore, to be limited in duration, as it nearly always becomes pernicious when long con- tinued. The vegetable astringents most employed in surgery are oak-bark, galls, kino, catechu, and acetic acid ; they are often prescribed in combination with salines. Those derived from the mineral kingdom consist of the acetate of lead, the sulphates of silver, copper, iron, zinc, tin, and the nitric and the dilute sulphuric acid. (Henry T. Chapman.') ATHEROM A, (from dtfypa.pap,) a species of tumours containing a pap-like or semifluid matter. (See Tumours, Encysted.) ATRESIA, (from a privative, and rpfj'ue, the act of boring, perforation,) congenital closure of any canal, or part of the body, which, in the natural state, opens externally. (Vide Imperforation.) ATROPHY, (from a,priv. and Tnorfn), nutri- tion ; atrophia, Lat. ; atropine, Fr.) This word expresses the gradual wasting of the body, either wholly or partially. Atrophy is often symptomatic of disease, either acute or chronic ; it may also take place when no mor- bid action is present, in consequence of inac- tion alone, or of pressure being made upon an organ. Rheumatism, paralysis, or luxation, may thus cause the wasting of parts, which otherwise may be considered to be in a healthy state. In another sense, atrophy in old age, where all the organs undergo decay, is but the converse of growth which characterizes the early periods of life; but the phenomena which accompany it, before the body has attained its full growth, and those which belong to the adult period, are totally different. In an adult, for example, if a limb wastes, its length is not diminished; while, on the con- trary, in the child, the growth not having at- tained its full term, the limb loses not only in bulk but in length also, so that in a few years the difference, as compared with the sound mem- ber, may amount to several inches. The treatment suited to atrophy must depend on the causes that have produced it, being itself a symptom, rather than a specific disease. ATTITUDE, the position, or situation of the whole, or part of the body. The effect of habitual vicious attitudes is strikingly illus- trated in the deviations of the vertebral column, as well as in many of the displacements of our organs ; and the simple inspection of a part or limb is often sufficient to enable the surgeon to detect a hernia, fracture, or luxation. This term is also employed by continental writers in reference to the positions in which the patient, the surgeon, and his assistants, are placed for the performance of an operation. Position is also of much importance in aid of mechanical means employed to promote union in injuries attended by solution of continuity, or to afford support where accurate coaptation of parts is required. AUSCULTATION. (Lat. ausculto, I listen.) . This word is used to signify the mode of investigating the healthy or diseased state of an organ by the sounds which the part may be made to communicate to the ear. In forming a diagnosis in affections of the heart and lungs, auscultation is of the utmost value, and by the labours of Laennec and others, it has been brought to great perfection. In the derangement of other parts its application is by no means so important ; yet no physician or surgeon would be justified in neglecting so useful an auxiliary, or in denying himself the advantages which it occasionally affords. The term “ auscultation” is most generally confined to the method of exploration in which the ear is applied to the part under examina- tion, either immediately, or with an instrument (as the stethoscope) interposed. But the ori- gin of the word, and the usage of some prac- titioners, will authorize the more extended meaning given to it above. In this enlarged sense it includes the study of every sound by which disease maybe indicated, in any part of the body, whether heard by the naked ear, or by means of instruments. It, therefore, em- braces succussion, percussion, and friction, toge- ther with the mediate and immediate application of the ear to the part affected. On each of these topics we shall make a few observations; chiefly with reference to surgical practice. I. Succussion—consists in a sudden shake, or agitation, of the part affected, and is in- tended to elicit a peculiar splashing sound, which marks the existence of a liquid and an aeriform fluid in the same cavity. Should either the liquid or the air be absent, no sound will be developed : a fact which may be illus- trated by shaking a bottle filled with water only, or with air only, or containing both.