62 AGLACTATION. to avoid injuring the lachrymal sac. By the methodical employment of these means, and attention to the general health, should it be necessary, the ulcer will be speedily cica- trized. AGALACTATION, see Aglactation. AGARIC, agaricum, Lat.; ayanucov, Gr.; Bldetterschwamm, Ger.; amadou, Fr. Its name is derived from a region of Sarmatia. Agaric is a species of fungus, or champignon, growing on the oak, the linden-tree, &c, It is pre- pared by drying the fungus, beating it out with a heavy wooden mallet, cutting it into pieces, and beating it out again, until it be- comes quite a soft and pliant felt: it is em- ployed in surgery to arrest haemorrhage from leech-bites, bleeding ulcers, and small vessels, from which the blood oozes after operations. It was first introduced into use by Brossard, a surgeon of Chartres, about the middle of the last century, and was received with great en- thusiasm as a substitute for the ligature, cau- tery, &c. It is needless to add, that no one, at the present day entertains any such opinion of the effects of the application of agaric. It is proved beyond a doubt, that it possesses no styptic or astringent property whatever, and that it only acts mechanically, or in the man- ner of a tampon, or plug. (See Haemorrhage, Hemostatics.) When applied to a bleeding surface, it rapidly absorbs the moisture of the wound, together with the serous parts of the blood ; the blood is thus made to coagulate at the very mouths of the vessels which furnish it, while the coagulum itself derives solidity from the agaric, which becomes adherent to the surface on which it is applied. There are, however, some precautions necessary to insure this effect. The agaric should be per- fectly dry, and the surface of the wound should be spunged dry, at the moment of its being applied ; it should then be held firm, and with a degree of compression, to the bleeding surface : when this is neglected, the agaric becomes penetrated with the moisture, the bleeding goes on, and it is soon detached, with the clot itself. When the methodical application of the agaric fails, the bleeding vessels must be sought for and tied ; or if the blood oozes from a large surface, recourse must be had to the application of ice, or to actual or potential cauterization. AGGLUTINATION, (from agglutinare, Lat.; KoWrjmg, Gr.;) the glueing together of parts that have been separated. It indicates the early stage of adhesion, during which plastic lymph is thrown out; the union in this state is mechanical, and may be dissolved by even a slight disturbance of the parts. But this lymph becomes organized, and the state of agglutination passes into one of firm adhesion, endowed with a power of resistance equal to that of the surrounding parts. (See Adhe- sion, Cicatrization, Adhesive Plaster.) AGLACTATION, AGLAXIS, agalactia, 15 Lat.; aya\aKTia, Gr. (from a, and ya\a, ‘ milk,’) Mdchmangel, Ger. Absence of milk after parturition, or its suppression by disease, or any cause independent of the will; and in this respect, it differs from ablactation, in the production of which, by the employment of certain means, the will concurs. The milk may be secreted and retained, as in mastoitis, vulgarly called the weed, but this is not the case we are now considering. The secretion of milk does not take place after parturition; or, if begun, it ceases when any important organ is seriously attacked, and this the more certainly, if the organ should be closely connected, functionally, with the mammae themselves: thus inflammation of the uterus and its appendages will be most likely to be accompanied by the suppression of the milk, although it takes place also, when the peritoneum, pleura, lungs, brain, cellular tissue, &c., are seriously involved, as in puerperal, or general fever. Nurses and attendants usually describe it, in popular language, by saying that the milk has floum to the head, fyc., an idea which, in the present state of pathology, it is scarcely necessary to observe is altogether erroneous. The secretion is simply suppres- sed ; but the milk is not translated to the in- flamed organs. The mammae become flaccid, and there is, doubtless, resorption of some portion of the milk; but it is eliminated, as re- sorbed fluids are, and does not hurtfully, and in its integral condition, circulate with the blood, The suppression of the milk constitutes an un- favourable complication of the malady, as the suppression of the cutaneous perspiration, or of the urine may in other circumstances ; in either case, however, it is. the effect, and not the cause, of the malady. Upon the subsidence of the general excite- ment, the secretion is restored spontaneously, particularly when the disease, during which it disappeared, has been of short duration. But when the disease has existed for some time, there is often no return of the secretion, after the disease has been completely subdued. The suppression of the mammary secretion sometimes takes place without any appreciable cause ; this is observed mostly in young and over-anxious mothers of spare habit, and in whom the mammary glands are but slightly developed, persons residing in close towns, and in ill-ventilated situations. It also occurs in consequence of mental emotions in the nurse. Some women cannot suckle their children in the presence of a stranger, being for the moment as powerless in this respect as many individuals are, as regards other excre- tions of the body, under similar circumstances. The milk ceases to be secreted when the most powerful stimulant to its secretion, namely, the suction of the child, is withheld, or upon the supervention of pregnancy. (See Lac- tation.) When the quantity of the milk diminishes gradually until it disappears altogether, it is often very difficult to re-establish it: the food should be nourishing, generous, and of easy digestion. Acids should be avoided. Rice-