ANKYLOSIS. 321 portion between the length of the contracted muscles, and the function they should perform is increased ; and the deformity of the limb is usually augmented, unless well applied mecha- nical means have kept it stationary. Hence another cause, caeteris paribus, why there is more actual elongation to be accomplished in children than in adults. All these circumstances considered, in rela- tion to the particular case of partial ankylosis of the knee, which I have begun to detail in this paper, combined with the knowledge of the fact that the best mechanical skill had been for twelve months completely frustrated by the unyielding state of the muscles, I con- cluded that nought would overcome their re- sistance but their division with the scalpel. What share had the evidently contracted gastrocnemii in maintaining the ankylosis of the knee, and what was the nature of their contraction, were however the next queries to be solved. The wasted muscles of the calf formed a strong broad band, extending from behind the lower end of the femur to the posterior extremity of the os calcis, which points of origin and insertion were approxi- mated, accompanied, therefore, with the flexion of the knee and so-called extension of the foot upon the leg, so that the heel was constantly drawn upwards. Pressure with the hand against the point of the foot served to bend the ankle joint somewhat, but this tend- ed again to increase the flexion of the knee ; nevertheless the gastrocnemii were more elastic, the attempts to elongate them were not met by a resistance so stubborn as that offered by the flexors of the knee, although whatever little was gained upon them by a few minutes’ pressure, was lost again when the hand was removed from the point of the foot. The explanation of the cause why there should have existed so great a difference in the nature of the contraction of the gastroc- nemii, and that of the flexors of the thigh, will be understood by reflecting upon this case in connection with that which I have stated to be a second not uncommon cause of inextensible muscular shortening in children. Gradual contraction, during a long-continued state of rest, was the primary cause in both sets of muscles, tending to organic inexten- sible shortening : but there was the remarkable difference, that the thigh bone had grown considerably during the four years the disease had lasted; it had shot out to its proper length, thus greatly increasing the relative shortening of the flexors of the thigh, whereas, as I have stated, the tibia and fibula were atrophied, not only in their diameter, but more particu- larly as regards their length ; they were at least three inches shorter than the corre- sponding bones of the opposite limb, so that although the same primary cause of the struc- tural shortening of the gastrocnemii had ex- isted, the bones of the leg having ceased to grow during the continuance of the disease in the knee, their contraction was much less rigid than that of the biceps femoris, semi- VOL. i. membranosus, &c. I was of opinion, there- fore, that there would be no necessity for the division of the tendo Achillis, but that on the contrary the gastrocnemii might be gradually elongated by an appropriate instrument, so as to bend the patient’s ankle, and enable her to put the heel to the ground, removing at the same time, whatever bending of the knee depended upon their contraction. The danger of reproducing the disease of the articulation, by performing an operation in its vicinity, and by a comparatively rapid extension of the limb disturbing the quiet state of the ligaments, was next to be consi- dered. It did not appear to me, however, that any danger of this kind existed, as the disease had completely subsided two years before, and the patient’s general health, which was good, though rather delicate, had, ac- cording to the report of the gentlemen who had attended the patient, so much improved since that time, and particularly when com- pared with her evidently strumous state, when the disease commenced. To proceed very cautiously however, I determined to carry on the necessary extension after the operation, as slowly as possible ; and should the least indication of an untoward result occur,-—any symptoms threatening a renewal of the knee- joint disease—I resolved to suspend the ex- tension, or lay it aside altogether. The only remaining question was, whether, if the ope- ration proved successful and the knee were straightened, the patient would have a limb (shortened and wasted as were the bones and muscles of the leg), sufficiently useful to re- pay her for the pain and risk of the proceed- ing. The most desirable termination possible of this case would be, that the patient should obtain a bent ankle, a straight knee, and the power of moving them in either direction, flexion and extension. That she would obtain the first, there could be little doubt; as to the second, it was most probable. She would also obtain the power of moving the ankle naturally; but as to usefully moving the knee- joint by voluntary muscular efforts, the pro- spect was very distant, as not only the inade- quate condition of the flexors of the thigh as respects power had to be considered, but it was impossible to decide upon the compe- tency of the articular surface of the three bones of the knee to perform their natural office. The really important point was to straighten the knee, which, if accomplished, supposing it even to remain fixed in the straight position, would alone amply requite a patient and parent for all the pains and troubles of an operation succeeded by mechanical treatment. Upon that judgment alone, I recommended the operation, considering, that although the patient would for some time require to use a stick, and constantly a cork-raised shoe as some substitute for the atrophied bones of the leg, a straight knee and leg, with the ankle restored to its natural motion, were a prefer- able alternative, either to the necessity of getting about upon two crutches with a knee