431 ASPHYXIA. 1 Kay on Asphyxia, p. 228. in the human subject. natural movements of the thorax, and the second, by which we convey air to the lungs, the latter process being called insufflation. Without the contemporaneous use of these two processes our measures generally prove abortive ; and if insufflation alone be attempted the consequences may even be highly danger- ous. There are many cases on record where animation was restored by the simple applica- tion of pressure to the chest and abdomen, by which a portion of the carbonised air was expelled, and on the pressure being removed, a portion of atmospheric air entered the lungs by the natural elasticity of the chest allowing it to recover its former dimensions ; whilst, on the contrary, when insufflation was resorted to, without reference to the movements of the thorax, the most unhappy consequences have been the result. In accordance with the views of Goodwyn, who supposed the contractile power of the left heart to be destroyed, in consequence of the venous blood which was sent to it not being its proper stimulus, insufflation was injudiciously recommended, and for a time universally adopted ; and as much as one hundred cubic inches of atmospheric air was advised to be introduced into the lungs at each inflation, with a force sufficient to overcome any impediment that might offer to its reaching the air-cells. The fatal results which must have followed an operation of this kind are obvious, and Leroy, whose instru- ment for insufflation we shall presently have to speak of, has satisfactorily shown, that with- out requisite caution, the most pernicious re- l suits follow. He ascertained that brisk suffla- tion of air into the trachea killed rabbits, foxes, goats, sheep, and other animals, even when the force employed was that of an expiration from the human lungs. To some other ani- mals, however, such as the dog, the operation was not so injurious. Air, briskly introduced into the lungs, generally ruptures some por- tion of their tissue, and, issuing into the cavity of the pleura, occasions their collapse, and thus fatally interferes with the process of respira- tion. In order to prove this, air was injected through an opening in the intercostal spaces | of an animal, and its immediate death ensued. I On opening the bodies of animals killed by brisk insufflation, the diaphragm was found to be protruded into the abdomen, forming an elastic salient tumor in that cavity, and the lung was seen contracted into a small volume within the chest. Leroy and Majendie also revived some animals by making a puncture in the parietes of the chest immediately after | brisk sufflation had been practised, and thus j permitting the effused air to escape from the i cavity of the pleura. Occasionally bubbles of air were introduced into the sanguiferous sys- | tern by some rupture of the pulmonary ves- I sels, and ecchymosis and effusion of air beneath j the pleura were generally observed; and both I Leroy and Majendie report that they fre- I quently occasioned a rupture of the pulmonary | tissue, and a consequent escape of air between j the layers of the pleura, by forcible inflation The directions given regarding this ope- ration must therefore be received with some caution. This discovery reveals a sad retro- spect of absolute evil, produced by the want of caution with which these means have been applied for the recovery of persons apparently dead, and show how presumptuous has been the interference of the most benevolent. The dangers are so great, that it is evidently not suf- ficient to diffuse a knowledge of them through the community, and to depend on the caution which this acquaintance with them may in- spire ; but it is desirable to have an apparatus which may be more safely entrusted to those who are distinguished by eminent professional sagacity and prudence '. Before attempting the resuscitative process, the following preparatory measures should be adopted. The body, stripped of its clothing, should be laid on a table, or on a board, sup- ported by chairs of a convenient height : the head, shoulders, and chest, should be some- what elevated, and, if necessary, the mouth and nostrils cleansed of mucus, which can be effected by means of a handkerchief wound round the finger. As free a circulation of fresh air as possible should be permitted, and with this view the doors and windows of the apartment should be left open, and no more persons than are absolutely necessary allowed in the room. The body should be exposed to a proper warmth before a fire, at a temperature of from 65° to 70° Fahrenheit. Bottles, containing warm water, or warm bricks, if the surrounding air be too cold, may be applied to the legs and arms. No heat however should be applied above 80° Fahren- heit, as a higher degree of temperature ex- hausts \ the vital energies. The natural and kindly warmth of a healthy person lying by the side of the body has been found, particu- larly in children, very efficacious. The warm bath should never be made use of, as water not only exerts an injurious influence on the body, but interferes with the exposure of it to the vivifying influence of the atmo- sphere. These precautions being taken, pressure should now be made upon the chest and abdo- men, by which the deteriorated air will be in part dislodged from the lungs ; when, upon the pressure being withdrawn, fresh air will be received into these organs, in consequence of the capacity of the thorax being restored, in virtue of its own elasticity, as well as by the descent of the abdominal viscera. By apply- ing the flame of a candle to the mouth and nostrils, or the down of a feather, it can be ascertained that on each firm pressure of the body air is expelled from the lungs, and that upon the pressure being removed, air rushes in. In conjunction with these attempts to imi- tate the natural respiratory movements, and in the absence of a proper instrument for the pur- pose, insufflation may be performed in the fol-