84 AMAUROSIS. appear in the conjunctiva of a dark red or purple colour, and passing- from the recti mus- cles to the cornea. Lastly, the lens actually becomes opake and cataract exists, but almost invariably it has a greenish tinge : I have seen it of the deep green colour of the sea, and in a very few cases of a dirty yellow colour. This is in the last stage, when the pupil is extremely dilated and fixed. The distended or varicose vessels of the conjunctiva are numerous ; the globe is hard and inelastic, and appears more pro- minent than natural. This disease, unchecked, usually proceeds through its different stages in the course of a few months, sometimes in only a few weeks; but under careful management I have seen it retarded for years, so as to preserve some use- ful vision, but this can be accomplished only in very few cases. The disturbance of the function of the retina is not at all in proportion to the visible organic change, for useful vision is generally lost be- fore there is much change apparent in the vi- treous body, or before the change is sufficient to account for the diminution of function in the retina. The history of this disease affords a very beautiful illustration of the extension of mor- bid action by vascular connection. First, disturbances evinced in the retina by flashings, sparks, &c., by diminution of vision, and further by the direction of pain in the acute cases, and the sympathetic pains in both forms. Secondly, the vitreous body becomes turbid ; and, lastly, the lens loses its transparency, and cataract forms. Thus, after morbid action has been fairly set up in the retina, as supplied by the pri- mary divisions of the central artery, the vi- treous body, as the next part supplied by the continuation of this arterial distribution, soon participates in the disease ; and subsequently the crystalline lens, organized by the extreme division of the same vessel, becomes affected, and undergoes some such morbid change as the retina and vitreous body have previously undergone. The changes in the vitreous body and lens are apparent during the progress of the dis- ease, and in a great measure prevent us from observing the condition of the retina. From examination of this structure after death, in persons who have suffered from glaucoma, it is stated by some, that no morbid change can be detected ; this I think probable, inasmuch as exceedingly slight change may take place, which our imperfect acquaintance with the healthy state of the membrane will not enable us to recognise ; and further, so rapid is the change in this part after death, that a few hours occasion a great difference in its appear- ance. I conceive that the examination should be made very shortly after death, and by a very experienced pathologist and anatomist, in order to detect any diseased condition. General symptoms—consist in derangement of some important function, with an unequal balance of circulation and nervous power; these are, however, causes rather than effects, and co-existent with the development of the disease. Chronic retinitis, in the acute form, is a dis- ease confined to persons advanced in life, is more frequent in females than in males, and attacks very rarely the eye with a light-co- loured iris. It very seldom commences in both eyes simultaneously, though it seldom exists for many weeks or months in one eye, without the other becoming affected ; but I have seen it disorganize one eye, whilst the other remained sound. Causes,—both predisposing and direct, are the same as in the acute form of disease, with the exception of violence, which however sometimes converts the slow or chronic affec- tion into the acute ; and this indeed takes place from other causes, as cold, damp, over- exertion, &c. The attacks thus excited are frequently not very violent, and are easily subdued, but they materially hasten the loss of function of the retina, and when once stirred up, are prone to reappear until the perception of light be lost. In persons of gouty diathesis, who have ex- perienced for some years several attacks an- nually of arthritic inflammation, but in whom such attacks are suddenly suppressed, and in those who have for years been subject to con- tinued or periodical discharges or haemorrhages which become unexpectedly arrested, the first stage of glaucomatous disease frequently oc- curs, without producing disorganizing effects; and a return of the previous affection is sometimes followed very speedily by a dis- appearance or great diminution of the ocular disease ; so that the patient again enjoys use- ful or good vision. Treatment.—The first endeavour should be to do away with the exciting cause, as over use or exposure of the organ, and then, if pos- sible, to subdue the predisposing cause ; this latter, I regret to say, is too often beyond the reach of our limited science and art, being mental in so many instances ; but although we cannot subdue, we may mitigate the un- favourable state which promotes the progress of the local disease. First, then, the patient should be taken from employment which requires much ocular or mental exertion, and be guarded from ex- posure to bright lights, or from the influence of sudden atmospheric changes ; and by de- grees, perhaps, he may be induced to engage in some business or employment which may amuse, but not fatigue ; and serve to occupy the mind, sufficiently to exclude distressing thoughts. Dietetic and medicinal means should be employed to correct error in any great or principal function, and at the same time to support strength, and equalize vascular and nervous power. Persons subject to this disease but very rarely require depleting measures ; as it