850 COUNTER-IRRITATION. tended with great pain, and the individual hobbles rather than walks. The distress, however, is soon moderated by bathing, or rather, macerating the corn in warm water, paring off its prominent part, using loose slip- pers for a few days, and confining one’s self to the horizontal position. Sometimes the small synovial bag becomes much distended, and even suppurates. This demands entire rest of the limb, and the prompt evacuation of the matter. Mere rest, however, and the rejection of tight shoes, often procures the dispersion of the horny projection, wThen not deeply rooted: of this we have examples in persons who are compelled, from accident or illness, to keep their beds for some time. Analogous results are obtained by relieving the corn of all pres- sure, by causing it to be borne by the surround- ing skin ; and this is done by superposing ten or a dozen pieces of linen, each with an aper- ture to receive the corn, so that, when a sufficient number are placed, the corn itself is protected from all pressure. This plan should be persevered in for some weeks. While in operation it may be assisted by rubbing the corn daily with the liniment of ammonia, using the warm pediluve at night, and, after drying the foot, scraping oft' with a blunt knife the thickened epiderm, thus reduced to a pulpy state. After the corn has been pared down or detached, and bathed, Mr. Wardrop recommends rubbing the exposed surface with nitrate of silver, or wetting it by means of a camel-hair pencil with an alcoholic solution of the hydrochlorate of mercury. The applica- tion is repeated till the cure is effected. Mr. H igginbotham’s plan of using the nitrate of silver is somewhat similar. After its applica- tion, the part is left exposed till the nitrate dries. In ten days or a fortnight, when the surrounding cuticle begins to peel off, the foot is bathed in warm water, and the black crust, with as much of the corn as possible, is re- moved with a knife. The application is then renewed, as in Mr. Wardrop’s plan. The variety of corn-plasters recommended as heroic is immense,—a fact which only show's how difficult it is to eradicate an inveterate corn. As a sample, we give one which is favourably spoken of. It consists of two ounces of gum ammoniac, two ounces of yel- low wax, and six drachms of acetate of copper. It must however be acknowledged, that the nature of this affection is not sufficiently un- derstood ; and that, whether it be treated by excision, or cauterization, or by both methods together, it is but too prone to return. The induration, or callosity,—called by the French, duiillon, or oignon,-—produced by pressure on the heel, or on the edges of the foot, bears a strong affinity to corn. It is formed of successive layers of the epiderm, like those of an onion. It is observed com- monly on the feet of great pedestrians, and on the hands of rowers, or others in whom parti- cular parts of the skin are exposed to constant friction and pressure. The skin beneath, to which it is adherent, is swollen and injected ; but no root is sent through it, as in the true corn. It is to be treated on the same prin- ciples as corn. A felt sole worn in the shoe, with a hole to correspond to the induration, is a common and a good remedy. The horny substance should be pared down, and filed with pumice-stone. Persons who perspire much in the feet are often plagued in warm weather by thickening of the epiderm in the angles of the toes. The skin, by constant maceration, is reduced to a whitish shrivelled and thickened pulp. It is easily removed by the use of the foot-bath ; but, under the influ- ence of the same causes, it soon reappears. Bibliography. Weddel, Dc Clavo Pedis. Jena, 1686. Camcrarius, De Gemursa Pliniana. Tubing. 1722. Rotisselot, Nouvelle Obs. sur le traitement clcs Cors. La Haye, 1762. Carlisle. In Medical Tracts and Observations, vol. vii. p. 75. Lyon, Treatise on the Spina1 Pedis. Lond. 1802. Sir B. Brodie, Med. Gaz. 1835-36, p. 776. 999. Wardrop, Med. Chir. Trans, vol. v. p. 140. Higginbotham, On the Use of Nitrate of Silver, ed. 2, p. 177. Callisen, Syst. Chir. Hodier. pt. ii. p. 200. Lagneau, Diet, de Med. art. Cor. Wm. B. Costello. COUCHING, an operation for cataract.— See Cataract. COUNTER-EXTENSION, from Contra- extendere, to extend in a contrary direction ; Gegenausdehnung, Ger. Counter-extension is made in the coaptation of the fractured ends of bone, or in the reduction of a luxation, by fixing firmly the upper part of the limb, or the articular socket, whilst extension is made either by the hands or by instruments on the lower. COUNTER-IRRITATION. Fr. Revul- sion ; Germ. Gegenrek. This term is employed in therapeutics to denote an artificial irritation created on some part of the body for the pur- pose of abating or removing an irritation pre- sent in some other part more or less distant. The principle, deduced from the well-known fact, that if two pains exist simultaneously, but on different parts of the body, the stronger obscures the other, may be traced back to a very early period in the healing art. Nature indeed furnishes abundant examples in illus- tration, in w'hat are called eruptive fevers, where the efflorescence on the skin serves to control the intensity of the internal disease. This kind of medication is chiefly resorted to in inflammatory affections in the sub-acute or chronic stage, and in those of a neuralgic description ; as also in promoting the absorp- tion of effused fluids whether serous or puru- lent, and of other morbid products. Counter-irritation may be effected by various agents, both physical and chemical, which pos- sess the quality of exalting the local sensibility and capillary circulation; the result being manifested in simple rubefaction, in the deve- lopment of vesicles, pimples, or pustules, or in the formation of an eschar. Accordingly, we find that mechanical friction, dry-cupping, 10