CORNEA. 841 on the cornea. The white deposit is apt to become fixed in the cicatrice, which is then dense and indelible. Dr. Jacob’ says, that the opacity appears to be produced at once by a single application. He has seen it the day after a drop of solution of acetate of lead had been put into the eye by mistake. A white deposit does not take place in all cases in which the acetate of lead is used ; but Dr. Jacob says he does not think he can state positively the precise condition of the ulcer which causes it. Dr. Mackenzie recommends a cautious at- tempt to be made to remove, with a small silver spatula, the white deposit from the sur- face of the ulcer ; and he tells us that in one case he succeeded in separating a scale of lead which had been deposited on the cornea1 2. An ulcer on the internal surface of the cor- nea appears to be the result of the bursting of an abscess of the cornea into the anterior chamber. There is, therefore, at the same time, false hypopyon, and the cornea at the affected place is dim, and has a tendency to become prominent. The treatment comes under the head of that of the ophthalmia which has given rise to the ulceration of the cornea ; but such details as the following may be mentioned here :— As chronic superficial spreading ulceration of the cornea is frequently accompanied by a granulated state of the palpebral conjunctiva, this source of irritation requires to be particu- larly looked to. When a deep ulcer i3 threatening to pene- trate, the evacuation of the aqueous humour often proves of great service by taking off the strain from the ulcerated part, and the inflam- matory action usually receiving at the same time at least a momentary check, the condi- tions are favourable for the operation of reme- dies and the establishment of granulation. , When an ulcer of the cornea near the cen- tre threatens to penetrate, it is advisable to keep the pupil constantly under the influence of belladonna, in order that, should perforation and consequent escape of the aqueous humour take place, prolapse of the iris may not follow. Hernia of the membrane of the aqueous humour ( Keratocele J. When an ulcer has penetrated through the proper substance of the cornea, its inward progress is arrested by the membrane of Des- cemet, which, unable to withstand the pres- sure from within, is protruded at the bottom of the ulcer, in the form of a small vesicle 1 Dublin Hospital Reports, vol. v. p. 370. 2 Mr. Tyrrell, in his recently published work, de- scribes a particular disease of the cornea under the name of “Inflammation of the Cornea with deposition of earthy matter,” and this he thinks is the same as the, according to him,alleged accidental deposition on ulcers of the cornea, from lead lotions above described. With- out denying that an insoluble precipitate may adhere to an ulcerated surface, Mr. Tyrrell considers that in all the eases which have come under his notice, the depo- sition had not this origin. filled with aqueous humour. This hernia of the membrane of the aqueous humour usually bursts ere long ; the aqueous humour is thus allowed to escape, whereupon the iris falls forward into contact with the cornea, and the tension of the eye is diminished. If now a remission of the attending inflammation re- sults, the ulcerated opening in the cornea becomes filled up, the aqueous humour again accumulates, and the iris returns to its natural position, provided no prolapse of it has taken place. In some cases when ulceration of the cornea is both broad and deep, but not penetrating entirely through the proper substance, the hernia of the membrane of the aqueous humour which takes place is large, and still invested with some of the corneal substance. In conse- quence of this it does not readily burst, but may remain permanent as a thinned and pro- jecting part of the cornea with impaired trans- parency, resembling somewhat conical cornea, from which, however, it is to be distinguished. From partial staphyloma it differs in not being connected with the iris, and never being so opaque. B^y the bursting of an onyx into the anterior chamber, the membrane of Descemet and the inner part of the corneal substance is destroy- ed ; the outer part then, incapable of with- standing the pressure from within, sometimes yields and forms a prominence of a conical shape. Prolapsus Iridis. Prolapse of the iris, in consequence of a penetrating wound of the cornea, has been already noticed. When it occurs in conse- quence of the cornea being penetrated by ulceration, there is much less likelihood of restoring it to its place, but much may be done to prevent its prolapse, by keeping the pupil under the influence of belladonna, when an ulcer near the centre of the cornea is threatening to penetrate. According to the size and position of the ulcerated opening in the cornea, so is the extent of the prolapse of the iris, and so is the pupil more or less involved. The ditferent degrees of prolapsus iridis have received different names ; thus, when small it is called myocephalon, from its forming a small black point like the head of a fly ;—when it is a little larger and flattened down by the pres- sure of the eyelids it has been compared to the head of a nail, whence the name claws. When larger and more prominent, it has been called melon or apple-shaped prolapse. When the iris is protruded at several openings, the appearance is somewhat like a bunch of grapes, whence the name staphyloma racemosum. When prolapsus iridis has taken place, all the symptoms of the attending inflammation are apt to be aggravated. But if the inflamma- tion subsides, and if the prolapse of the iris be within certain limits, it gradually contracts and flattens as the ulcer of the cornea closes, and nothing at last remains but the cicatrice