2G5 FRACTURE. also is exemplified in Guy’s museum. The anatomist, however, must usually expect to discover only a part of the process in one instance ; and, again, he must he provided against misconceptions by a knowledge of different modifying causes. Sometimes almost all the stages of the pro- cess are illustrated in one animal. The bones of a camel passed from the collection of the late Mr. Brookes to that of the Royal College of Surgeons, and were afterwards removed to Guy’s Hospital. It appears that the animal had had nearly all its ribs broken not long before death, and the proofs of different stages of repair, according to the motion and irritation of each bone, are well established, by the varying size, &c. of the masses of new bone which encircle the several shafts on each side of the lines of separation. There are many contradictory statements of facts, which render it extremely difficult for the reader to judge of the due importance of periosteum, in the repair of fractures, and it is not possible to give a definite expression of its value for all cases. The membrane may be extensively removed from a young bone with little inconvenience, and, in later periods of life, it can hardly be said to be indispensable to the vitality of the spot it covers; but, on the other hand, it is, as we have said, in every way the most efficient source of nutritive, and, there is every evidence to show, of reparative action also. Bones mainly grow by successive external depositions, while the internal action is, in the main, (though still nutritive,) an exca- vating process from the beginning. It is by no means established, as has been asserted, that the destruction of the medul- lary membrane must cause the death of the shaft, indeed, there is much evidence to the contrary. In the collection of St. Thomas’s hospital is an os humeri, filled with acephalo- cysts (hydatids), which have greatly dilated the tube, and materially expanded the bone itself, doubtless by internal pressure and ab- sorption, and by external inflammation and deposition. In the Guy’s museum there are very satisfactory instances of the death of the cylinder without that of the contained cancellus. Troja destroyed the medullary membrane, and the shaft died ; but even in this case the explanation inferred may be deceptive. I was once concerned in performing simi- lar experiments with Mr. Aston Key; and judging from these and what I have seen besides, I am decidedly of opinion that the periostitis producing new bone around the old is often the cause of the death of the latter, and that such an idea tends most rea- sonably to explain the death of the shaft in the experiment of Troja. If the new bone in forming adhere to the shaft, the latter cannot be dead : in propor- tion, therefore, as there is evidence that such an adhesion has existed, so is it established that the new ossification preceded the death of the old bone. It is not always thus, how- ever ; for severe inflammation may at once separate the periosteum from the bone of a stump to a considerable extent, and so far the bone will probably die ; yet, above the necro- tic changes, ossification proceeds, and, guided and supplied by the separated periosteum, new bone grows almost indefinitely. Thus the dead shaft may be included in a new cylinder, but the inner surface of the new bone can have no defined relation to, any more than connexion with, the sequestrum, because of the intervention of granulating periosteum, which lines the tube of the new bone, as well as of its purulent secretion. Sir A. Cooper, and also Mr. Symes of Edinburgh, removed about an inch from the middle of a dog’s radius, including the perios- teum, and no intermediate bone was repro- duced. In another case Mr. Symes removed a like portion, leaving the periosteum as little injured as possible, and the reproduction of bone in the cavity was excessive : but we must not, with him, assume too hastily that a specific function is thus proved to belong to periosteum ; for we must recollect that in the last experiment a well-organized membrane, in a state of tension and excitement, was left to complete a process which had been equally begun (though not described) in both expe- riments, namely, ossification beneath the periosteum of the divided ends of the radius. The museum of Guy’s Hospital con- tains the evidence of this. I cannot doubt, that, in the experiment where the periosteum was left, the unob- structed excavation was filled up progressively from the two ends ; bone upon bone being suc- cessively deposited, until the two growing heaps within the active periosteum came hi contact and united. Here, too, it should be observed, there is a strict resemblance to the result of common persistent bands of periosteum between two broken ends of bone. In the experiments where both bone and membrane were removed, the interspace was filled by soft deposits, and each cut end of the radius healed as in a common stump,— except in some of the experiments of Sir A. Cooper, in which I perceive that ossific inflammation at the end of each section has united each radius to the ulna adjacent. It will not be expected of me in this place to detail the process of the formation of the stag’s horn ; but I cannot avoid remarking, that some of the general doctrines which I have brought forward are happily corrobo- rated by the circumstances of the growth of horn. After the exfoliation of an antler, there is cicatrization of periosteum, then a continual deposit of bone upon bone from the abundant blood of the investing mem- brane, whilst internal absorption rather than deposition prevails. Fractures of these parts, in the growing state, may also become repaired in the same manner as common bone. This