EMPHYSEMA. 87 Emphysema occasionally appears, almost instantly after the receipt of the injury, around gun-shot wounds, contusions, disloca- tions, and fractures, accompanied with much laceration of the soft parts. In the case of gun-shot wounds, it has been imagined this may depend on the instantaneous deadening of the parts attending that class of injuries ; admitting this to be the fact, it remains to be inquired why the phenomenon is of such rare occurrence, as it is known to be. Besides, this explanation evidently fails in regard of common contusions. Cases of this class, which have been observed by most experienced sur- geons, are, in the present state of knowledge, inexplicable: examples are related by M. de Bazas ; and Boerhaave is stated by Waldkirch to have seen universal emphysema follow the receipt of a small contused scalp-wound from a fall on the head. Here should possibly be included the emphysema already referred to, as occasionally arising during the attempt to reduce dislocations of long standing. Such are the modes of causation and mecha- nism of emphysema; its other characters may now be inquired into. Anatomical Characters.— Whatever be their mode of origin, external emphysematous tumours are characterized by swelling, com- monly unattended with heat, tenderness, fluc- tuation, or abnormal colour ot the skin : in some instances, however, when the disorder is carried to a very high pitch, the surface is paler and more shining than natural. The part is soft to the touch, yet tense and elastic; it does not retain, even for an instant, the im- pression of the finger, and a sensation of cre- pitation is experienced on handling it. When the surrounding parts are healthy, gentle pressure diminishes the size of the swelling, hy forcing some of the air forming it into the cellular membrane adjoining. When per- cussed, an emphysematous part sounds like a bladder filled with air, and repels the finger by its elasticity. The nature of the gas in emphysema has scarcely been inquired into experimentally, and we consider it unnecessary to give any a priori views on the subject. It must evidently vary with the species of the disorder. In MM. Bally and Rerolle’s cases, the presump- tion is, that it consisted of proto-carburet of hydrogen. In the article Pneumo-thorax will be found an abstract of the results of some analyses of air found in the pleura, by Drs. J. Davy, Martin-Solon, and Apjohn. Emphysema is occasionally limited to a very small space, and, on the other hand, may ex- tend over the entire frame, with the exception of a few parts. The rapidity with which the air spreads will be found proportional to the laxity of the cellular membrane, and the deli- cacy, mobility, and extensibility of the super- jacent skin. To this fact is to be ascribed the opinion of Frank, that thin persons are con- stitutionally predisposed to emphysema. In the neck, for instance, the air spreads with such facility, that, in a very few minutes, the integuments may be raised to a level with the face. The progress of intumescence is equally rapid in the lateral parts of the chest, the axilla, groin, and scrotum. The median line frequently limits emphysema temporarily—or, it may be, persistently,—in consequence of the density of the cellular membrane in that situa- tion. For the same reason, the soles of the feet and palms of the hand retain very nearly their normal appearance, when the rest of the body is enormously swollen. In extreme cases, the air, after having distended the subcutaneous cellular membrane, penetrates underneath the fascia of the limbs, into the submucous tissues and the mesentery, follows the course of the vessels and nerves, and finally makes its way into the parenchymata of the viscera and the cavities of the heart and blood-vessels. Some rare instances have been observed, in which the eye itself—the tissue of the hyaloid mem- brane, even—was swollen with air. The integuments may be raised two, three, or more inches from their natural position, so as to give the whole body, in the language of M. Begin, the appearance of a sort of elongated bladder, divided into compartments by folds and contracted parts. The cele- brated case described by Littre is usually cited as the best example of the extraordinary extent to which the inflation may be carried. The patient survived two days only after a penetrating wound of the chest; yet the emphysematous swelling measured on the chest eleven inches in depth, on the abdomen nine, on the neck six, and four on other parts of the body. The upper part of the head, as well as the palms of the hands and soles of the feet, escaped inflation. The wound in the lung was seven or eight lines long, one and a half broad, and one deep. Symjjtoms.—In considering this part of our subject, we shall more especially keep in view emphysema produced by injuries of the respiratory organs and passages. It is far from easy to separate the symptoms really caused by accumulation of air in the cellular membrane, from those of the injury to which it is owing, or from those of pneumo-thorax —where that morbid state co-exists with em- physema. When trifling in extent, all that is felt in the tumour is a slight sensation of fulness, occasionally of heat. The part is somewhat numb and stiff. In M. Vitry’s case, pain was complained of, as the air forced its way along the hypogastrium, and compared to that produced by blows with a stick. Larrey relates a case where violent pain in the testicles was produced by extreme infla- tion of the scrotum. If the "disorder extend overa considerable part of the body, its effects are much more serious. The compression of the superficial vessels determines congestion of internal organs ; a sense of tightness is experienced at the chest, accompanied with gradually increasing dyspnoea. There is fever and thoracic pain. Decumbiture is usually at first on the back ; but, as the effusion of air increases, the recumbent posture is wholly