CANCER, ANATOMY OF. 599 chemical constitution of scirrhus, and the two latter chemists published quantitative analyses of some specimens. All three agree in enu- merating gelatine among its elementary prin- ciples. The following analysis is by Foy :— Albumen 42-00 White fatty matter 5-00 Red ditto - 3"25 Fibrine 5-85 Water 5-00 Oxide of Iron P65 Subphosphate of Lime 16'60 (Soda 5'00 Carbonates of < Lime G'60 t Magnesia .... 0-85 Hydrochlorates of { ; ^5 Tartrate of Soda 0'85 Compared with the analysis of encephaloid by the same chemist, the chief peculiarities here are the less quantity of albumen and fibrine, the absence of osmazome, and the much higher proportion of inorganic salts : no gelatine occurs in either case. Muller’s observations confirm their accuracy in this latter particular : after repeated examinations of mammary scirrhi, and boiling them for 18 or 24 hours, he only succeeded once in detecting gelatine. Casein he discovered in the reticular variety, and considers it a very uniform constituent of carcinoma of the breast; but that its presence in this gland does not depend on the contents of the re- maining fragments of the lactiferous ducts is shown by its entering into the composition of the disease in other organs. Scirrhus is either developed in the form of a tumour or is infiltrated in the substance of organs. Scirrhous tumours are usually rounded or oval, and flattened ; their external surface smooth in the outset, lobulated and anfrac- tuous in the more advanced stages. The latter disposition is most strongly marked, when the disease has originated in a single point; the former when the total mass is composed of several minor growths. We have never observed them invested with a true cyst; the statements of Dupuytren, Recamier, and others, seem, however, to be conclusive of its occasional existence. The infiltrated form is not unusually met with in some organs. Of five cases of cancer of the brain described by Andral1, two were of in- filtrated scirrhus. In the uterus this mode of deposition of the carcinomatous matter is much the more common ; it attacks the bones too, in them gradually producing softening, while it indurates the soft parts—a striking illustration of the assimilative power of the morbid growth: in each instance it alters the consistence of the part to its own standard. Scirrhous tumours very rarely, if ever, acquire large dimensions ; they seldom exceed an orange in size. This character helps to distinguish them from fibrous growths. Scarpa believed that scirrhus is never pro- 1 Clinique Medicale, t. v. p. (>33. ct scq. duced primitively in any other situation than the external conglomerate glands, in the skin, and in certain viscera invested by the mucous membrane. With the first class he ranks the mamma, the parotid gland, the testicle, the submaxillary, and lachrymal glands ; with the second the oesophagus, the rectum, the vagina, the neck of the uterus, and the larynx. He maintained that scirrhus never occurs primi- tively in the lymphatic vessels or glands, in the sublingual glands or tonsils, or in such viscera, properly so called, as have not been included in the enumeration just made, al- though some of them are invested with a mucous membrane. Numerous English au- thors write, though less definitely, to very much the same effect. Mr. Travers limits the occurrence of scirrhus “ to some or other description of secretory texture.” But the more recent investigations of accurate ob- servers at home and abroad (Velpeau, Hodgkin, Carswell, Cruveilhier, &c.) have proved the error of such doctrines. Cancerous tissue, possessing all the characters of scirrhus, occurs in the bones, the voluntary muscles, the liver, the lungs, the brain, and has been met w'ith in the substance of the heart. On the whole the seat of this Species of carcinoma appears scarcely more limited than that of encephaloid. Scirrhus is ordinarily solitary ; in some instances, however, growths of this species have been observed in several organs in the same subject. The female mamma, the uterus, the stomach, and the lower lip are the parts of the body most frequently attacked. Varieties.—The pancreatic sarcoma of Aber- nethy is set down as a variety of scirrhus by Dr. Carswell, the peculiar appearance re- sembling the tissue of the pancreas being ascribed to a lobulated arrangement of the scirrhous matter: by Dr. Hodgkin it is sup- posed to refer to “ non-malignant tumours composed of compound serous cysts ac- cording to Chelius the pancreatiform and mastoid tissues are nothing more than acci- dental modifications of encephaloid : Professor Berard, after a diligent study of Abernethy’s essay, declares himself unable to determine to what description of structure the term was applied. Our own conclusion on the subject agrees with that of the latter w'riter. Aber- nethy refers to a tumour, possessing vessels, 7§ inches in length, 3§ in circumference, weighing two pounds and a half, and de- veloped under the ocular conjunctiva, as an example of pancreatic formation ; now the seat, bulk, and other characters of this mass appear tolerably strong evidence that it was not of true scirrhous nature. Muller speaks of an encephaloid tumour of which the innume- rable small component lobules gave the mass a pancreatic appearance ; some of Cruveil- hier’s figures of pultaceous areolar carcinoma bear no distant resemblance to the structure of that viscus : as far as our experience goes, the term is more applicable to either of these species of cancer than to scirrhus. M. Recamier terms this morbid formation