S07 CONDYLOMA. and consecutive inflammation must be com- bated by antiphlogistics. See Head, Inju- ries of. CONDYLOMA, kovSvXoe, a knot, Gr., condylome, excroissance, Fr. The term condy- loma is employed in so vague, I might almost say in so contrary a sense, by different per- sons, and in different countries, that a defini- tion of it is equally difficult and necessary. That difficulty is aggravated by the circum- stance, that two kinds of affections are com- prised, if not confounded, under the name, and have not, so far as I can ascertain, been clearly and satisfactorily distinguished by even the recent writers upon syphilis. On a former occasion, and in another work *, I took the liberty of offering some observations on the subject, and endeavoured, I fear with indifferent success, to present a succinct ac- count of the affection. The present article is substantially a reprint of that paper, with such alterations and additions as further ex- perience, and the publications of other gentle- men, have given birth to. For convenience of description, as well as for practical utility, condyloma appears to admit of division into three principal forms. And though they have a tendency to run into each other, and their distinction is not always either profitable or possible, yet, on the whole, it is founded in convenience, and must be re- cognised by those who would aim at an accu- rate acquaintance with the disease. The first variety of condyloma might be termed the simple condylomatous excrescence, as it occurs independently of venereal taint, and is merely the result of irritating secretions. It consists of irregular thickening of the cutis, or of the mucous membrane at the outlets of the genito-urinary or intestinal canals, which may or may not be thrown into a fold, including thickened and consolidated subcutaneous cel- lular tissue. The second and the third varieties are proba- bly rather grades of one than possessed of specific differences. And yet they do differ. The second variety is a superficial, nearly circular, deposit in the cutis, of a vascular character, and accompanied, or preceded, in most instances, if not in all, by discharge from the urethra or vagina. The third variety of condyloma is an ulce- rated condition of the second. The condylo- matous deposit has become a superficial sore, elevated and thickened by reason of its con- dylomatous substratum. These varieties may be termed respec- tively—the noil-ulcerated venereal condyloma, and the ulcerated venereal condyloma. I will not take upon me to affirm, that in every instance they are of venereal origin and cha- racter ; but the succceeding observations will probably show that such is their usual nature. Though each of these varieties slides into the other, and the two last offer palpable ’ Mcdico-Chirurgical Review, for July, 1831. affinities, yet, for practical, as for theoretical reasons, it is advisable to consider them apart, and to study the features that each presents. But in this, as in many other instances, the pre- cise delimitations of books may be disregarded at the bed-side ; and the experienced surgeon, while he recognises shades of differences hard to be pourtrayed, sets their proper value on artificial separations of phenomena naturally connected. With this admission, which seems not uncalled for, I will endeavour to draw each variety of condyloma as closely as may be from the life. 1. SIMPLE CONDYLOMATOUS EXCRESCENCE. This affects parts kept warm and moist, particularly if contiguous surfaces rub upon each other. Its favourite sites are the labia in females, and the perineum, or vicinity of the anus in both'sexes. I have seen it in the groin, in the fold between the thigh and peri- neum, in the axilla, and between the toes. What is called “ soft corn,” is generally con- dyloma in the inter-digital cleft. It is occa- sionally seen between the nates of infants, especially of such as have been born of parents infected with venereal symptoms. The growth is irregular—not attached by a pedunculated stem—of variable size, but frequently extensive1—fissured on the surface —sometimes, on the labia possessed of little vascularity, and almost lapsing into warts ; generally, especially in the perineum and around the anus, vascular, though not highly so, and either covered with an adventitious mucous membrane, or actually ulcerated on the surface. Whether ulcerated or not, there is always a certain, and sometimes a profuse discharge of a watery character, of a sickly odour, and, occasionally, of a very acrimonious nature, excoriating the integument on which it flows. The parts appear in a continual slop. The varieties in form, which are chiefly dis- played in the perineum and round the anus, attracted the attention of the older surgeons, and gave occasion to some curious terms. The condylomatous productions received the absurd names of fici, cristm, and so forth, from resemblances which they were supposed to exhibit to those objects. On examining the structure of condyloma the cutis is found to be hypertrophied. Its vascularity is increased, materially in some instances, but not so distinctly in others ; the subcutaneous cellular tissue evinces also a disposition to hypertrophy and condensa- tion. The older the growth, the greater, in general, is the tendency to the predomi- nance of a fibro-cellular structure, and to the diminution of the vascular organization. The causes would appear sufficiently ob- vious. They are such as are calculated to give birth to excited action in the cutis. 1 I have seen the axilla filled with a mass of it, and it often forms a sort of collar round the anus.