FRACTURE. 362 e, is fastened to the former by means of the soft leather straps attached to its under surface, which pass round the lower part of the leg; s ould, huiv- ever, these straps appear insufficient to fix the iron sole to the foot firmly, an extra hand, f may be ap- plied in the same manner, of calico or linen. “ That done, the surgeon proceeds to the reduction of the fracture, and afterwards adapts the upper extre- mity of the splint to the pouch of the thigh-belt, g, h, i; the foot-support being connected with the splint, the cushions, and the anterior, k, and internal splints are to be applied, and the whole fixed by means of tlie tapes, as in the ordinary bandages for frac- tures of the thigh. Lastly, by turning the winch, n, the iron sole is "lowered, drawing the foot, to which it is attached, along with it; the superior extremity of the splint is thus pushed upward, and the member elongated to the necessary extent With a settled opinion in favour of gentle force only, an instrument of this kind may be occasionally very serviceable ; it is not incom- patible with some slight flexion of the knee ; and by raising the lower end of the apparatus with the leg, some flexion of the hip may be obtained. The advocates for the straight position fur- ther contend, that the relaxation of muscle, as by semiflexion, is not the best means of pre- venting the spasm occurring in fractures: when cramps occur in the calf, as in bed, for instance, the person seeking relief, certainly endeavours to stretch out the heel, to press the toes against the footboard, to get out of bed and stand up, or he adopts some such method, having a tendency to elongate rather than relax the muscular fibres : from analogy, therefore, we might infer, that an extended rather than a flexed state of muscles would be better calculated to the prevention of spasm in fractures. These arguments are, unfortunately, too hasty. The straight position relaxes the ex- tensor, which is by far the strongest muscle of the limb, and does not fully extend the long flexors of the knee, or even those of the thigh; and yet this is the antispasmodic position, be- cause it produces tensions. Again, a person having cramp after dancing, at first stretches the muscle to obviate the distress ; but he soon finds that the least effort of the muscle brings back the cramp, and that a studied qui- escence is the means of preventing a relapse. Observing1 the facts in my own case I have certainly found evidence of this. The spasm that depends on inflammation, is, I suppose, not to be obviated by pressure or extension, but rather by rest, depletion, and anodynes. The pressure of a bandage, besides making a limb steady, is said to diminish the tendency to spasm ; but this requires limitation. There are states of inflammation which pressure only provokes ; and although with feeble nu- trient actions, pressure may cause atrophy and feebleness of muscle, it is not, I think, certain that in an opposite condition of body, even where there is no evidence of inflam- matory action, pressure would cause quies- cence. Of course the reader perceives that 1 See Dr. Cutler’s Practical Guide in Dressing, &c. compression is equally available in all postures of the limb ; although those who attach most consequence to relaxing the muscles, rely least on the influence of bandage. Cases of fractured extremities have been published, to show the advantages of the straight position, aided by active extension when necessary, over the flexed or relaxed position : the method is presumed by some, to be more in accordance with the physiology of muscular action, and is said to be effectual towards the prevention of spasm, and the inflammation and fever connected with it. It would appear also, from some accounts, that these unpleasant symptoms, having previously taken place under other treatment, have after- wards yielded on the adoption of this line of practice ; the limb has been found more steady, the bed less irksome to the patient, and the change of position has diminished the liability to sloughing. All these views, however, may be fallacious ; a change of posture is often a good thing in itself; and a fresh and careful attempt to re-adjust an ill-set limb cannot be less so. It has been recommended to allow the pa- tient to assume the sitting posture occasion- ally in the course of the treatment, and there are cases in which this alleviation should not be withheld. The straight portion of the limb admits of this change most readily ; but no general plan of treatment necessarily for- bids that intervals of repose of this kind should be indulged in. Dr. Houston, who sides with Desault as an advocate for the extended posture, makes some modifications in his apparatus. He first uses a tailed bandage, the tails of which may be two inches and a half broad, and about two feet long, lightly and neatly applied round the limb to steady and support the muscles ; very lightly applied, it may be used as a vehicle for lotions, and may be omitted in cases of com- pound fracture for the more ready attention to the wound. His two long lateral splints, made of deal, are from two and a half to three and a half inches broad, according as the thigh may be deep or otherwise, but equal to each other in breadth, that the limb may not turn to the narrow side, and they must be made sufficiently stout, that they may not bend. The external splint is to be made of sufficient length to lie along the side of the abdomen, in order that the point of resistance may be the better secured, and any necessary extension more effectually exerted : the hole and notch at either end of this splint are to be as recom- mended by Desault. Two calico or linen bags filled with bran, and about one-third broader than the splints, are preferred for pads by Dr. Houston. In like manner he prefers the band for counter-extension, to be filled with bran as a bag, that the groin may not be ex- coriated ; and to secure the opposition of the splint to the side, he recommends the ends of the band to be made long enough to pass round the abdomen, after it has been secured to the top of the splint. Dr. H. further uses