4 ABDOMEN. tendinous below, while the fibres of the inter- nal oblique ascend, and decussating with the fasciculi of the external muscle, terminate tendinous above ; and, lastly, how this trans- verse muscle has its fleshy fibres, so intersect- ing the decussation of the other two, as com- pletely to close the opening which would otherwise have remained, and have left the viscera constantly exposed to the liability to protrusion. A thin flat muscle (the rectus) is extended, ensheathed throughout its entire extent, except for a little way at its lowest part, between the layers of the tendons con- stituting the tinea alba, from the pubis to the scrobiculus cordis ; it is divided transversely by tendinous intersections (the linece transversce ). The sheath contains another muscle (the pyramidalJ which also ascends from the pubis, about half-way towards the umbilicus. The other moveable wall (the diaphragm) is concealed from view, and constitutes the superior boundary of the abdominal cavity ; it forms a septum between the abdomen and thorax, ascending deeply even in its quiescent state, into the base of the latter. By this disposition, the upper part of the oval formed by the abdomen as a whole, is spliced, as it were, into the thorax ; so that an instrument penetrating horizontally from the back part of the trunk, at. any point between the top of the xiphoid cartilage, and the last intercostal space, would pass through the cavities, both of the thorax and abdomen. The action of this muscle is as essential to the function of respiration, as its influence is important upon the abdominal viscera. The inferior boundary is formed by the pelvis, the excavation of which seems to be an appendix or prolongation of the general cavity. The soft walls in this region possess but little mobility, and consist of the ischio- coccygeal and levatores ani muscles, with an aponeurotic arrangement containing other muscles, &c., proper to the perineum, by which this space is closed. So far as the osseous, fibrous, and muscular structures serve to form the parietes for the abdomen, they have been noticed ; but as allu- sion has been made to the passage of vessels, nerves, &c., in and out of the cavity, it is ob- vious that some other tissues are required for the safe occlusion of these outlets, as well as for the purpose of strengthening the parietes generally, and modifying the influence of mus- cular action upon the abdominal viscera. Ac- cordingly we find entering into the structure of the abdominal walls, cellular tissue, some- times abounding in small pellets of fat, fascial expansions enveloping the muscles, and a serous membrane, with a free surface, lining the walls and giving a covering to the con- tained organs throughout almost their entire extent. The fascial expansions are prolonged in the form of more or less perfect sheaths into the outlets, together with cellular tissue and fat: this latter point is peculiarly deserv- ing of notice, as these fatty nodules dilate the openings, when the nutrition is in a high state of activity ; thus favouring, if emaciation should suddenly supervene, the protrusion of some portion of the abdominal contents. Under circumstances where these adipose produc- tions have a firm connexion with the cellular surface of the peritoneum, they have been known so to draw upon the serous membrane, by their augmentation of volume, as to form funnels, in which the contained organs have been compressed, and even incarcerated. This has been observed more particularly to occur in the course of the natural outlets ; but they have also been known at other points, above the umbilicus, for instance, to produce such distress by making traction on the peritoneum, as to simulate the effects of a strangulation. The only point of importance, as regards these tumours, is to distinguish them from protrusions of the abdominal contents, and this is, in general, an easy matter, when the tumour is not the seat of pain on pressure, when it is situated near or above the umbili- cus, or over the region of the liver, when it has been formed slowly, is irreducible, pedi- culated, and round. But this is by no means the case, when there are colicky pains in the abdomen, vomiting, and constipation. They vary in size from that of a nut to that of an egg ; they are round, smooth, or knobbed, and of the consistence of firm fat, producing neither pain nor inconvenience. Their form- ation is very simple : a small pellet of adi- pose substance, adherent to the peritoneum, is pressed out through a slit or natural aperture, until it gets beneath the skin, where it gradu- ally increases in bulk. As it still holds by the peritoneum, it draws upon it, through the narrow opening which had originally given it passage. Instances have been observed, in which the falciform ligament of the liver, and the cord of the umbilical vein had been drawn on in this manner : they also occur in the usual situations of hernia: ; when small, and that the opening through which they had reached their superficial situation is large, they may be easily reduced; but when the disproportion between the opening and the tumour is considerable, it is wholly irreduci- ble. These adipose tumours have often be- trayed some of the most experienced surgeons into mistakes, and indeed, in many cases, no- thing is more difficult, than to avoid con- founding them with a strangulated hernia. Pelletan and Scarpa operated in such cases ; the latter not discovering his error, until the tumour was exposed: he removed it, and the patient got well. Cruveilhier relates another case that occurred to Dupuytren. In some instances, where an operation had been per- j formed, the issue was not so fortunate ; the patients died, in some cases, from pre-existing peritonitis, the real nature of the tumour not being detected till after death. Velpeau re- lates a case in which he was on the point of operating : the patient died from partial peri- tonitis, with the formation of small abscesses ; but the peritoneum connected with the tu- mour was not inflamed. When the tumours have been cut down