AMPUTATION. 180 operation is termi- nated by sawing it four inches higher up than the point at which the skin was cut. The lower the point at which the amputation is per- formed, the fewer will he the vessels requiring a liga- ture. At the low- est point, viz., four fingers’ breadth above the condyles, the vessels requir- ing attention are the femoral artery, the anast omatic (ra- mus anastomaticusj, with perhaps a few muscular branches which may be twis- ted. At the upper part of the limb, there will be, be- sides the femoral artery, the profun- da, branches of the circumflex, obtura- tor, and ischiatic arteries, and per- haps some muscu- lar branches. Fig. 4fi. Circular amputation at the lower third of the. thigh; the skin which was cut at the line just above the knee is seen reflected like a sleeve upon the middle part of the thigh. The muscles are divided down to the bone ; and the ojierutian is advanced to the point at which the retractor is to be applied, and the bone suived through. The large nerves in the thigh, not being re- tractile like the muscles, are sometimes seen after amputation hanging, or projecting from the surface of the muscles. If left in this state, they render the dressing painful, and the, stump less useful after the healing process is completed ; it will, therefore, be better to snip them at once to the level of the muscles with a very sharp pair of scissors, or cut them with a quick stroke of the knife. The sides and lips of the wound are brought together, on a line from one side of the thigh to the other, or from the front to the back. The transverse line of union is that usually preferred by the surgeons of this country. The French surgeons, who resort less fre- quently than ourselves to healing the wound by first intention, prefer the antero-pusterior line of union, as the pus has a better drain from the posterior angle. Some surgeons unite the lips of the wound in an oblique line from without inwards and backwards, imagin- ing thereby that they avoid the incon- veniences of the two former modes of con- fronting the wounded surfaces. Fig. 47. Circular amputation at the upper and thick- est part of lice thigh. Flap method.—In the general description of this method, already given in the first part of this article, will be found the details of its application to the thigh. It may be doubted ™ whether the flap Fig. 48. method for this particular amputa- tion, really posses- ses any of the ad- vantages ascribed to it. At the up- per part of the limb, however, its superiority over the circular method is manifest from the greater facility it affords for confront- ing the surfaces of the wound. It is executed certainly with more rapidity, especially in young subjects, or when the limb is wast- ed ; but those sur- geons who disap- prove of its appli- cation, except in cases of necessity, maintain that it is more painful, and that it involves a greater extent of the soft parts in the wound. Fig. 48. Amputation, by douljle flap, anterior and pos- terior, at the middle of the thigh. The shaft uj tlui bone is bared to the extent of three or four inches, the length of the flaps. The operation is advanced to the point where the retractor is to be ajrplied, and the bone sawed through.