558 CALCULUS. to them essentially. The conditions favouring this precipitation, speaking generally, are few and simple. It is enough that the concrescible matters of any secretion, be produced in ex- cess, with reference to their solvent media, either absolutely or relatively; the menstruum being deficient in quantity, the solid matters remaining in the normal proportion, precipi- tation is apt to occur; or, otherwise, the menstruum remaining normal, but the solid matters being produced in excess, precipita- tion is again liable to take place. The states of system, however, which lead to the elabo- ration of fluids of such a constitution, as renders precipitation from them, not oidy possible, but, in certain cases, inevitable, are extremely ob- scure. The bile, for instance, is in general a thin, slightly glutinous, and transparent fluid, indisposed to let fall its solid constituents ; but it is sometimes elaborated of the consist- ence of pitch, and disposed, not merely to deposit its concrescible elements here and there, or at some particular point, in the course of the gall ducts, but to solidity within these, almost from their commencement in the secreting granules of the liver. In like manner the urine is in general a homogeneous, watery, and perfectly transparent fluid, letting fall little or nothing, even after becoming cold and standing at rest for several hours ; but in particular instances we observe this fluid pro- duced, so highly impregnated with concres- cible matter, that deposition of this takes place, even within the secreting tubuli of the kidney, at a distance from their terminations in the papillae of that gland. It is, in fact, only of late that pathologists seem to have felt the necessity of investigating particularly the state of system which leads to calculous deposition. Almost up to the present mo- ment, the spirit which has guided inquiries in regard to calculus generally, has unquestion- ably been far too purely either chemical or mechanical. An acquaintance with the chemi- cal constitution of calculi was indeed neces- sary ; but as practitioners of medicine, it is obvious that we have done little to advance our available knowledge, when we have dis- covered that a concretion consists of phos- phate or carbonate of lime, of lithic acid, or cholestrine, as the case may be ; neither, in fact, have we approached the subject of calcu- lus, in the whole of its more interesting and important bearings, when we have come to conclusions in regard to the best method of removing concretions from the places in which they are lodged. There is matter for inquiry which ought to precede every consideration having regard to the chemical composition of a calculus, or to its removal by medical or manual interference ; the state, to wit, of the organs at large, the sum of whose functions constitutes the life of the individual, and the state of that organ in particular, whose de- rangement, among other effects, is productive of calculous deposition. It is, undoubtedly, in regard to the concretions which are formed from the urine, that our knowledge is farthest advanced; but when we ask ourselves what we know of the state of kidney which is con- nected with the various forms of deposition from the product of its activity, the urine, we are compelled to answer, next to nothing; and with reference to the derangements of the liver and other secreting organs, which lead to the formation of biliary and other cal- culi, we unhesitatingly admit our entire igno- rance. A more careful and methodical study, in particular, of the urine in the course of all diseases, and of the condition of the kidney, associated with its various abnormal kinds, will surely do much to clear away the obscurity that yet surrounds the entire subject of renal pathology. Salivary Calculi.—The saliva is occasion- ally elaborated very rich in concrescible mat- ters. This is generally proclaimed by the rapidity and constancy with which an earthy- looking deposit, universally known under the name of tartar, takes place upon the teeth. But deposition is also apt to occur within the ducts of the salivary glands, and there to give rise to concretions which, sooner or later, by causing obstruction, or exciting inflammation and suppuration, require the interference of the surgeon. Salivary concretions are met with of very different sizes, from the magni- tude of a millet seed to that of a filbert or almond. They are probably encountered more frequently in the ducts of the submaxillary, or sublingual glands, than in that of the parotid ; although they have also been met with there in many instances. Often there is but one concretion in the duct; sometimes there are several; and now and then the ducts, from their termination on the mucous membrane of the mouth, to their most delicate ramifications in the substance of the secreting gland, seem filled with them. The symptoms of salivary concretions are generally swelling and pain in the region where they are deposited. Sometimes they obstruct the ducts at their orifice ; and when that of the sublingual gland is the one affected, we have the disease called Ranula produced. In these instances the calculus can very com- monly be felt in the cavity of the mouth, and then there is no doubt in regard to the nature of the disease. But the calculus is frequently situated more deeply within the duct, and then its existence is often first suspected, when it has given rise to inflammation and the forma- tion of an abscess. There is an interesting case of this kind related by Waltherh A patient had for some time complained of a painful swelling, situated at the upper part of the neck, immediately under the angle of the lower jaw. This went on to suppuration, and had finally to be punctured, when a large quantity of matter made its escape. The opening, however, could by no means be brought to close ; on the contrary, it became fistulous, and there was a perpetual oozing of a thin watery fluid from the wound. Examined with a probe, a hard, gritty substance was dis- covered, and the wound being enlarged, a salivary concretion of more than half an inch 1 Journal, B. viii. S. 173.