218 ANEURISM. posterior part, and was one inch in length. The upper portion ot the sac occupied a part of the cavity of the pelvis, and by its pressure prevented the branches ol the internal iliac artery from supplying the thigh with blood.” “ The coagulum in contact with the sac was the same as is usually met with in large aneurismal tumours ; with that, there were innumerable thin, firm laminae, and the inner- most portion was in the state of jelly. “ It is a circumstance which could not have been foreseen, but one highly satisfactory to myself, that had I attempted to tie the artery above the formation of the aneurismal sac, I must have failed, since the sac extended higher than the division of the iliac artery into the ex- ternal and internal, so that the external branch could not have been secured without wounding the sac, which would have proved fatal; and in the space above, between the division into the two iliacs, and the bifurcation of the aorta, there was an ossification an inch long ; so that if the artery had been secured there, when the ligature separated, the patient must have bled to death. It may be said, that I might have taken up the aorta above the bifurcation ; but I have made up my mind to let those dis- eases that require tying the aorta, which come under my care, take their course This new and ingenious mode of treating aneurism, by causing the coagulation ot the fluid blood contained within the sac, and which was first suggested by Monteggia, of Milan, may be ultimately found of the highest prac- tical importance, and may perhaps lead to the discovery of some safe as well as effectual means of obliterating an aneurismal sac more easily than by the application of heat, or by anv of those surgical proceedings which are usually resorted to for the cure of this formi- dable disease. It appears to me that the fluid blood contained within an aneurism might be coagulated with safety, by injecting into the sac a proper quantity ot one of those sub- stances which produce the instantaneous coa- gulation of blood that has been just removed from a living animal. Of these substances, perhaps there is no one which would be bet- ter adapted for this purpose than acetic acid, a small quantity of which is known to coa- gulate a very considerable quantity of blood. Vinegar could be very easily injected into the sac of an aneurism with Anel’s syringe, a puncture having been previously made into the sac with a needle ; and it might be advis- able to arrest the circulation through the dis- eased artery, previously to such an operation, by an adequate compression of the vessel either on the capillary or cardiac side of the tumour. If the blood within an aneurismal sac could be thus coagulated, its curative effects might be reasonably supposed to proceed in the same manner, as if the coagulation of the blood had been effected by obstructing the circulation through the vessel by the application ot a ligature. 1 On the Coagulation by Ileat of the Fluid in an Aneurismal Tumour.—Phil. Trans. 1826. It has also been proposed to coagulate the blood within an aneurism, by conducting a galvanic stream along needles introduced into the sac. (Phillips, Pravaz.) Compression. — When local and general means have failed, or when from any cause they have been found inapplicable to the treatment of an aneurism, the next resource of art is to effect the consolidation of the tumour by the application of pressure, or by placing a ligature on the diseased vessel.. The records of surgery afford many proofs of external aneurisms having been cured by compression, and the compression has been applied either on the tumour itself,—upon the diseased vessel on the cardiac,—or on the capillary side of the tumour, or on the whole of the limb wherein the aneurism is situated. Various contrivances have been made use of in order to produce the necessary degree of pressure on an aneurismal tumour, but the objection to most of them is the great pain which their long-continued pressure creates. The instrument of Seunjio has been that most usually employed. Fig. 63. The instrument, represented in fig. 63, consists of two metal plates which cross one another and form four separate branches, at the extremity of each of them is to he affixed a belt which is to be passed round the limb. Through the central plate a screw passes, to which is attached a pad; so that by turning the screw any degree of pressure can be made, the pad having been placed immediately above the artery. Compression, under favourable circumstances, and when properly made, may be highly use- ful ; for even should it fail in such instances, it will not only not have been in any way injurious, but it will have had such an effect on the collateral circulation as to render the success of the ligature more certain. In selecting the point on which compression may be made, regard should be had to the points where the artery is most superficial, as well as where it may be pressed against a bone. Compression may be made on the axillary artery, behind the clavicle -on the femoral, where it passes over the pubis, or at the upper and inner part of the thigh, on the brachial, against the humerus, &c. In some persons, the effects of the pressure are such as to render perseverance in its use either impossible from the pain, numbness ot the limb, and excoriations, &c., or unadvisable from the oedema which it may determine. After a bandage has been applied mode- rately tight from one extremity of the limb to the other, a compress may then be placed upon the tumour, and with a common tourm-