651 CANCER, TREATMENT OF. transparent character of that product'. 2. In the fibrous or linear part, caudate corpuscula, with or without nuclei and nuclear corpuscula, were abundantly seen, and presented the three varieties of arrangement shown in PI. I. figs. 4, 5, 6. These were associated with cells of the description frequently referred to. 3. In this layer, a fibrillar stroma, of the kind repre- sented in PI. I. fig. 10, constituted a most re- markable feature. 4. In the ichor, we observed, in addition to nuclear cells, curved caudate corpuscules. The most common seats of cutaneous cancer, as a primary disease, are the vicinity of the orifices of the mucous canals, the scalp, and the parts of generation ; its characters are the same in all parts of the body. The scirrhous excrescence or tubercle of the face may present the natural tint of the skin, or, as is more common, a reddish or dirty grayish hue, without any, or at least notable, thickening of the cuticle ; and is indurated, firm, and frequently rests upon a broad basis : varicose vessels in some instances ramify over the surface. It may exist in this state for a length of time, even for years, if unirritated, without being productive of inconvenience ; in other cases it is the seat of constant pruri- tus, or burning heat from the outset. If ex- cited, either by being scratched, or injured in shaving, or otherwise, the progress of these excrescences becomes more active—they in- crease in size, or, if the summit has been laid bare, a thin fluid exudes, which forms a scab ; the latter is generally torn away, or drops off, and re-forms, while the ulcerative process ad- vances underneath. An ulcer, at first super- ficial, but ultimately acquiring an excavated basis and elevated edges, exhibits itself; this eventually spreads in all directions, preceded in its progress by carcinomatous induration, and constitutes one of the conditions to which the term noli me tangere has been applied. Large fungous formations sprout upon its sur- face in some cases; the discharge is abundant always, but especially so under these circum- stances, and copious haemorrhage is not very uncommon. The vast destruction of parts, combined with the partial paralysis produced by the implication of filaments of the seventh pair, disfigures and deforms the countenance in a most striking manner. Even in this ad- vanced stage of the disease it is not exceed- ingly uncommon to observe a temporary amelioration in its appearance, and a partial attempt at cicatrization, with formation of small florid granulations. In some instances, ' This shows distinctly that the germina of cancer (for here they probably extended much beyond the part examined, which almost presented the grosser characters of the disease,) are occasionally left behind in tissue, which appears at the time of operation, to be perfectly healthy. A remark of the same kind has been made by Gluge : “ it is not only,” he says, “ in the cnccphnloid tissue itself, of affected organs, that its globules arc found; they are also to be discerned in parts apparently healthy; for example, in portions of enrcphaloid lungs, which still retain the property of crepitating." (L'Institut, No. 191, Jan. 4,1837.) after excoriation has occurred, the surface of the excrescence becomes finely mammillated, acquiring the appearance of a mulberry (mori- form cancer), and in this state it may remain for a long period before the establishment of destructive ulceration. When the affection originates in scirrhous induration of the cutis, it may likewise remain for years without ex- hibiting activity, until an abrasion or fissure occurs and a crust is produced ; the course of the disease is henceforth the same as in the former case. It is not very rare for successive crusts to form without the separation of the more superficial having preceded. Large hard grayish concretions are thus formed, sometimes singularly elongated, and twisted like the horn of a ram ; they present trans- verse sulci, corresponding to the number of layers successively deposited. These horny concretions may also form on the moriform variety. The ulterior progress of these cases is the same as of the former. The constitutional symptoms are in general obscure, until ulceration sets in ; indeed, until the occurrence of this change, the health of the patient does not commonly suffer in any perceptible degree. They are, generally speaking, less marked than those arising from carcinoma of the external glandular organs. M. Rayer confirms the statement of Scarpa respecting the scirrhous nature of the tissue of these excrescences. Incised lengthwise, and examined under a lens, says the former writer, they are seen to consist of a “ lar- daceous” tissue, traversed by whitish lines, and analogous in colour to fibro-cartilages. If softened to any extent, a whitish matter may be pressed out of them, and they frequently contain true encephaloid substance.—The same pathologist describes some anatomical varieties of the disease. His melanic variety we believe to be the ordinary cancerous tissue tinged with black colouring matter. Leucoid cancer is distinguished by the milky white colour of the excrescences; some of these are flat, and depressed in the centre ; promi- nent at the edge, which is covered with vascular ramifications : others are rounded, and vascular in the centre, while their circum- ference is of a milky-white colour. Under the magnifier they appear to be formed of hypertrophous chorion, infiltrated with a milky fluid. Like the melanic variety, they seem to indicate d cancerous diathesis. Mol- lusciform cancer is distinguished by the flatness or slightly-rounded elevation of its tubercles in the centre ; they are of the same colour as the skin ; their surface is wrinkled, and in the largest tubercles, the furrows are concentric. Their component tissue is true scirrhus. M. Rayer also describes encephaloid growths of the skin, but in the example given of this form of the disease, the morbid formation appears rather to have originated in the subcutaneous cellular membrane. This species of cancerous matter, however, as has already been men- tioned, is sometimes produced in cutaneous nsevi and erectile formations.