506 BOUGIE. The invention of this instrument dates as far back as the year 1551, and is attributed by Andre Lacuna to Philippe, a Portuguese em- piric, who communicated to him the secret of their composition. Three years afterwards, however, Amatus, who knew Philippe well, claimed the honour of the invention for Alde- retto of Salamanca ; he himself having taught the use of the bougie to Philippe. Alphonso Ferri of Naples disputed this claim in 1553, asserting not only that he had been in the habit of using this instrument from the year 1548, but that the escharotic ointment of which he made use on those occasions, had been known to Alexander of Tralles, who flourished in the sixth century. He also speaks of other means of exploring the urethra, such as cylinders of lead of various sizes. That such applications should have been proposed as something new about this period, although previously known, is extremely probable, when we consider that urethritis presented itself as a new disease about the same time. These bougies were at first made with thread or cotton wicks, dipped in wax ; and as they were employed in the cure of what in that day were called carun- cles or carnosities of the urethra, the escha- rotic used for this purpose was worked into the side of the bougie at the point which it was supposed would come in contact with the carnosity. A great variety of irritating sub- stances were had recourse to for this purpose ; savine powder and cerate formed one of these escharotics; another consisted of a dram each of vitriol, orpiment, alum, and verdigris, macerated in vinegar, and then incorporated with two ounces of unguent, cerussae ; and Riviere relates that Charles IX. was treated by an Italian empiric named by Giannati, by means of a preparation of antimony, tutty, cerussa, camphor, opium, and some other sub- stances of a less active nature. The composi- tion of Daran’s bougie, which for the greater part of his life he had kept a secret, is still more singular : his receipt for it runs thus :— Take of olive oil two pounds, red-wine half a pound, a young live pigeon plucked, or in its stead, half a chicken ; boil in an earthen vessel till the wine is evaporated, then dissolve with what remains four ounces each of yellow wax and burgundy pitch, two ounces of sper- maceti, one ounce of diabotanum, and from two drachms to two ounces of burned sole-leather, in powder. This mixture is spread on linen, which is cut into straps of different sizes, and rolled to form bougies. While the idea continued to be entertained, that they were employed to destroy imaginary carnosities, great importance was attached to the composition of those instruments, and the good effects of pressure, for which they are now most valued, were naturally overlooked ; but these once recognized, the mechanical properties of the bougie became the chief ob- ject of consideration, and the escharotic bou- gies fell very properly into disuse. Accord- ingly we find at a later period the manufacture greatly simplified. The bougies employed in Guy’s Hospital about the middle of the eigh- teenth century, were made with old diachylon plaister one ounce, two drachms of mucilage plaister, and one of white precipitate. This preparation was spread on linen, which was cut into small bands, and rolled into a conic shape. Other substances were also employed in the manufacture of these instruments, such as the slender stalks of various plants, parchment, or mouse-skin enveloping copper wire, glass, horn, whalebone, ivory, and gut. Bougies of the last mentioned substance are still in com- mon use, and they possess some advantages, as they are capable of being made of exceed- ingly small diameters; and when enveloped with a very thin coat of goldbeater’s skin, are perfectly smooth; their flexibility also in the small sizes is of great use ; by being allowed to remain for some time in the ure- thra, they imbibe moisture, and swell; a cir- cumstance which, with proper management, may be turned to good account in the treat- ment of stricture. In cases of this nature, where the occlusion is nearly complete, they answer admirably the purpose of quickly pre- paring the way for bougies of a larger size, and of different quality. The pointing them is a process of some nicety, and is performed with a small sharp knife, and the pumice stone or file. Mr. Ure has recently recommended the ivory bougie, softened by the removal of its earthy constituents. This bougie, which he has made trial of, at the suggestion of Dr. Giiterbock of Berlin, is slightly elastic, and so tough, that it cannot be broken. Before using it, it should be immersed in water for several hours. The bougies now in ordinary use, are made with diachylon that has been kept for some time, and mixed with a quarter of its weight of wax, and a certain quantity of olive oil, to which some needlessly add, a small proportion of mercury, sulphuret of antimony, or red ox- ide of lead. Long triangular slips of linen are dipped in this mixture, and rolled into form, they are then polished on porphyry in the usual way. A better method, however, con- sists in enveloping the composition with the prepared linen in spiral folds, and polishing as before ; in this way they may be made in any shape required. The advantage of being able to draw off the urine, at the same time that the urethra was subjected to the dilating effect of the bougie, suggested the necessity for making them hollow, or tubular. In the year 1779 Bernard, a silversmith of Paris, presented in- struments of this kind to the Royal Academy of Surgery, which were unquestionably a very important improvement upon the bougies then in use. Zeden of Berlin, and Pickel of Wurz- bourg laid claim to the invention, but without being able to substantiate it, as their attempts were made with elastic gum, while Bernard employed a better and cheaper substance, viz. linseed-oil, which he caused to thicken over a slow fire. Even now, the so-called gum