556 BURSAE MUCOSA. minent. The pain, hitherto continued and violent, is now increased by the additional throbbing of suppuration ; and this change in the character of the pain is often quite abrupt ; it becomes scarcely tolerable, nothing seeming to have influence in appeasing it. At this time the constitutional disturbance is excessive. Irritation is excited to its highest point, and no relief whatever is obtained until a free out- let be given to the matter, which is anxiously demanded by the patient. The treatment ofsuch cases should be prompt in the early stage of the inflammation, and every effort is to be made to subdue it be- fore suppuration is established. Leeches, fomentations, and poultices, are the chief re- medies, with general depletion. So soon however, as suppuration is discovered, a free and full opening by incision, not puncture, must be at once made. The evil of delay is great, and the advantage of such an opening at the moment will fully compensate for the temporary pain of the operation. Poultices and fomentations should again be applied after the incision. The slow and chronic case of thecal inflam- mation offers symptoms of a less formidable nature ; but it frequently happens, that out of such a case, with the apparently gradual and slow progress of inflammation in its first stages, all at once, and in a moment, perhaps in con- sequence of the formation of matter, the chronic character is changed to the most acute form. In such cases the same treatment must be adopted, viz. bold and decided incision. Small chronic tumours are occasionally met with, situated over the tendons, giving to them a knotted appearance. These are of various hardness, and are most frequently ob- served on the flexor tendons of the fingers. These have their origin in the bursal lining of the thecae, and are caused by friction ; they are commonly seen in cricketers or row- ers, or persons who are much in the habit of handling or grasping rough instruments. They are slightly painful, and so long as they continue to be subjected to the irritation which pro- duced them, they go on to enlarge. Some- times they assume an active character, puru- lent matter is formed, and the inflammation spreading over the aponeurosis gives rise to the most painful and alarming symptoms locally, as well as high constitutional dis- turbance. Another form of chronic thecal inflammation is occasionally seen where the tumor is more diffused. I have found it ex- tend along the whole course of a finger, the palm of the hand under the ligamentum carpi annulare, considerably above the wrist, the fluid extending throughout the swelling; pressure above the wrist giving an impetus to the fluid at its opposite extremity, and vice versa. Such tumours are produced by similar causes as those before-mentioned. They seldom take on inflammation of an active character. I have punctured these chronic bursal collections, and have found frequently purulent matter, mixed with the synovial fluid, or small white bodies, apparently of an hydatic nature, some of them having almost the consistence of cartilage. At the wrist the tumour is bilobcd by the pressure of the annular ligament. They are apt by continu- ance to involve the whole hand in chronic disease. Treatment.—The small knotty tumours are, if discovered early, generally removed bv rest, and the application of straps of plaister applied for that object, and at the same time to aid their absorption by promoting some degree of pressure. In the event of failure of this plan, the application of the emplast. ammon. c. hydrargyro, similarly put on, ge- nerally answers well. Should the evidence of the formation of matter become clear, it will be necessary to make a free and full opening. The existence of pus should be clearly ascertained, so that any unnecessary incision may be avoided, which in the early stages of the complaint is hazardous. The elastic feel, the extreme pain on pressure, and constitutional disturbance, will be sufficient evidence of the existence of matter. The diffused and extended thecal swelling just noticed is best treated in its early stage by small punctures, so as to evacuate gradually the contents, and by immediate compression of the part; this a few times repeated, generally reduces the swelling, and strips of plaister, per- manently applied,completes their cure. When suppuration has mixed with these swellings, a more free evacuation should be given, and the use of emollient poultices recommended for a time. The use of the vapour-bath for a quarter of an hour daily is very serviceable in reducing the swollen state of the hand, and in regaining its free use. The bursa generated under friction or ir- regular pressure comes next under our con- sideration. The bunion, or its complication with corn, is the diseased state here meant. This structure consists of similar materials to the natural bursa, but the bag is not so per- fectly formed. It has an external coat of con- densed cellular membrane, and an internal lining, with a shining and secreting surface, from which a serous fluid is poured out. The bunion is formed by pressure exerted on cer- tain parts, in a certain manner and degree. Pressure of every kind, or every degree, made on any part indifferently, will not however produce a bunion ; the fibrous structures solely have this unhappy privilege. To produce a bunion the pressure must be applied so as to receive a counter pressure: for instance, it would not be found on any yielding part, such as the muscles of the thigh, or the scrotum, but the most favourable part for its production is a projecting point of bone, which opposes the pressure from without ; the pressure must remit and not be permanent ; it must not be too severe or too long continued. It is well known that compression produces different effects, according to the manner and degree in which it is applied. Thus when it is ex- erted with sufficient firmness and duration, pressure is capable of effecting the absorption