278 ANEURISM. of the operation, by a trial on the dead body, Dr. Stevens made an incision about live inches in length in the lower lateral part of the ab- domen, parallel with and half an inch on the outer side of the epigastric artery. The skin, fascia, and abdominal muscles having been successively divided, and the peritoneum se- parated from its loose connexion with the iliacus and psoas muscles, as high as the divi- sion of the common iliac artery, he felt for the internal iliac, and insinuating his fore- finger between it and the vein, pressed it between his finger and thumb. The pulsation in the aneurism ceased at once, and the tu- mour began to diminish. The ligature was then passed round the artery, and tied about half an inch from its origin. The tumour dis- appeared almost immediately after the opera- tion, and the wound healed kindly. The ligature came away three weeks after. The loss of blood during the operation did not amount to an ounce. This woman lived nearly twenty years after; at her death, a preparation of the parts was made, which is now deposited in the Museum of the College of Surgeons of London. In the year 1817, Mr. Atkinson of York tied the internal iliac for an aneurism of the gluteal artery. The patient was a young muscular bargeman. The tumour was situated under the gluteus muscle, and had been coming on for nine months, in consequence of his being struck with a stone. Mr. At- kinson performed the operation in the same manner as Dr. Stevens; but the artery was in this instance situated at a greater depth, as it required the full length of his fingers to reach it. The pulsation of the tumour was arrested immediately on pressing the artery between the ligature and the fore-finger. This point once ascertained, it was unneces- sary to repeat it for the satisfaction of the assistants and pupils ; and had the vessel been less disturbed for this purpose, perhaps the operation would have been attended with a ditferent result. The patient sank, partly from haemorrhage, and partly from exhaustion, three weeks afterwards. The ligature was completely detached though it still remained in the wound. Averill, in his Operative Surgery, also men- tions a case in which the internal iliac was tied by a Russian army-surgeon, and on whom the Emperor Alexander settled a pension as a reward for the skill he displayed in the treatment of the case. An American surgeon, Mr. Pommeray White, has also tied this vessel for a gluteal aneurism. His incision extended in the shape of a half moon, to the length of seven inches, beginning near the umbilicus, and terminating near the inguinal ring. He tied the artery about an inch from its origin, and united the wound with points of suture and adhesive straps. The case was successful. The operation might also be performed by prolonging the incision made for placing the ligature on the external iliac. Ligature of the Gluteal Artery :—The glu- teal artery, which may be regarded as the externa] continuation of the main trunk, owing to its exposed situation, is liable to be wounded. Dr. Jeffray of Glasgow was con- sulted in a case of this kind: he recommend- ed the wound to be dilated, and the vessel secured where it had been injured. His ad- vice was not adopted till too late, for while the preparation was being made for the ope- ration, the tumour burst, and the patient died of haemorrhage. In a similar case, John Bell dilated the wound, and tied the artery with complete success ; and Mr. Rogers has published a case in which he was also successful. The dilatation should be made with caution : Thcden mentions a case, where in dilating a gun-shot wound, the gluteal artery was wounded by the surgeon, and the patient lost his life. Mr. Lizars proposes the following plan for cutting down on this vessel : The patient is made to lie on his belly, the thigh is extended, and the toes turned in- wards. An ideal line is drawn from the su- perior posterior spine of the ilium to the middle of the space between the tuberosity of the ischium and the great trochanter. The artery emerges from the pelvis at the point where the two superior thirds join the inferior third of this line ; here it lies in the space between the gluteus medius and the gluteus maximus. The incision, however, should not be made in this line, as it would divide the fibres of the gluteus maxinnis transversely; it should be made in the direction of those fibres, and in a line nearly corresponding with that of the sacrum and great trochanter, and passing over the point of emersion from the pelvis already indicated. The integument, and fibres of the gluteus maximus having been divided, and the muscle raised, the artery will be found immediately below the upper border of the great ischiatic notch. The length of the incision must vary according to the cor- pulency of the patient. Mr. Brooke states that he succeeded by compression, and the exhibition of digitalis and laxatives, in dispersing a tumour which he believed to be an aneurism of the gluteal artery. PRIMITIVE, OR COMMON ILIAC ARTERY. In this, as in the case of other large arte- rial trunks, instances of spontaneous oblitera- tion had been observed before any one had the hardihood to propose placing a ligature upon it. Dr. Goodison of Wicklow, while dissecting at the Pitie in 1818, found a long- standing and complete obliteration of both the common iliacs, without any apparent, injury to the lower extremities. Sir A. Cooper’s experiments on dogs had already demon- strated that the common iliacs might be tied in these animals, without producing gangrene of the corresponding extremities.