ASPHYXIA. 426 producing “ an effect on the circulation which, as Sir C. Bell expresses it, is retrograde along the branches of the arteries —from the ana- logous movements of the fluids of vegetables which are offered on the application of heat, or other stimuli, to one of their branches or roots, in the absence of any evidence, to show the existence either of a structure or of a con- tractile power in the vessels or cells, through which the fluids pass, capable of giving them a determinate direction towards the parts which are thus stimulated :—from the fact, that the conversion of venous blood into arterial, which takes place in the lungs, is accompanied with an increase of fibrin in the latter, and also an increased tendency to coagulation, “ which implies such an increase of an attraction of aggregation in the particles of the fibrin, as may be held to be strictly vital;” and that, on the contrary, a change from arterial to venous blood is accompanied with a separation of the globules of the latter, its whole bulk appearing somewhat increased ; and also from the derivation of blood in all directions, which takes place towards an open- ing, when made in a vessel of a living animal. Dr. Alison, moreover, insists, that we have no distinct evidence of the existence of coats, still less of irritable coats, in the minute ca- pillaries of the lungs, and that the only vital power of contraction, which experiments au- thorize us to ascribe to any arteries, is a power of permanent or tonic contraction on their contents, which, when called into action, lasts for some time, and must impede the flow of fluids through them ; that the only powers arteries possess over their contents, according to Majendie and other eminent physiologists, is simply one of contraction, so as to lessen or retard their flow, and one of relaxation, so as to give them a free passage ; and that, con- formably with these views, Wedemeyer found stimulating liquids when injected into the ar- teries of a living animal, were much longer in making their way into the veins than mild ones *. The difference then, on the question under our present discussion, between the theory of Dr. Kay and of Dr. Alison, is simply this. Dr. Kay supposes, when an animal is asphyxi- ated, the arrest of the circulation in the capil- lary ramifications of the pulmonary arteries and veins, arises from a cause which is to be referred to the capillaries themselves ; these vessels failing in their action, from the want of their proper stimulus, or in Dr. Kay’s own words, “ the minute pulmonary vessels which usually convey arterial blood are incapable of conveying venous blood, which therefore stag- nates in the lungs2.” Whilst Dr. Alison,for the reasons already so largely quoted, attributes the cause of the stagnation of blood, not to “ the na- ture of an increased contraction of the vessels themselves,” but to a failure of that “ auxiliary power” in the pulmonic circulation, which is “ of the nature of an attraction of the venous 1 Cyclopedia of Anatomy and Physiology. 2 Kay on Asphyxia, p. 181. blood towards the part where it is to undergo the change into arterial bloodthe power itself inducing this attraction being the process of arterialization ; to the accomplishing of which process, the admission of pure air to the lungs is essential, but which admission in asphyxia is prevented. It too often happens in physiology as in other sciences, that when any new theory is propounded, those which preceded it are either altogether lost sight of, or are merely mentioned as matters of history. The theory of digestion, which at one time was solely a concoction, at another a fermen- tation—a nervous function—a chemical solu- tion—a vital principle, and so on—is an example of what has happened in this way ; not to men- tion the history of animal heat, absorption, the seat of vision, and, indeed, every observed function of the human body. All these “ have had their day,” as the common expression goes; and when the imagination, at first raised and dazzled by the new doctrine, sub- sides, and judgment resumes her seat, the older opinions, when again examined, are found, if not perfect, at all events, of some assistance in helping to explain the subject under en- quiry, or in accounting for many of its phe- nomena. The older physiologists, including Harvey and Haller, as we have already seen, looked upon the stagnation of blood in the capillaries of the lungs in asphyxia, to be caused by the suspension of the movements of the thorax. Goodwyn showred, that after these movements ceased, dark blood was for a short time sent to the left heart. Bichat, in rejecting Good- wyn’s owm theory of the non-exciting power of this blood to the ventricle, although he sneers at the idea of angles of vessels, and col- lapsed air-cells offering any impediment to the passage of the blood through the lungs; yet details an experiment admirably calculated to show the instantaneous effect of the respi- ratory movements in facilitating the passage of this fluid. If a stop-cock be adapted to the trachea, and an artery opened, the blood will blacken, and continue for some time to be thrown out with its ordinary force ; but at last the jet will gradually grow weaker. If after this the air be admitted, the blood will almost imme- diately become red, and its jet visibly augmented; and Bichat further observes, that this impe- tuosity depends on the movements of respira- tion, to which the animal is obliged on the admission of air. “ Besides, the influence of a series of full respirations may be manifested without dividing the trachea ; open the carotid artery, and hurry the respiration of the animal by tormenting it (for pain will constantly have this effect), and the jet will be visibly in- creased.” These observations, although made to account for “ why the heart ceases to act when the chemical functions of the lungs are interrupted,” bear much more strongly in demonstrating the effects of the respiratory movements on the pulmonary circulation. And