CANCER. 672 hooked extremities (velsellum) may be used to seize the diseased mass, or if particular difficulty arise in any instance, a ligature passed through that part. The surgeon then transfixes the tongue with a straight bistoury behind and without the disease, and bringing it forwards to the apex, separates the healthy tissues laterally ; the posterior separation is next effected by carrying the bistoury out- wards from the posterior point of the incision to the edge of the tongue. No dressing is required. Serious haemorrhage, as we have said, sometimes follows. Ligature or torsion of vessels is rarely efficacious in check- ing it, as the blood flows from a multitude of points on the divided surfaces ; ordinary as- tringent gargles frequently fail, and we have seen cases in which the actual cautery was required to stop the effusion. Where this is necessary, pieces of pasteboard should be placed in the mouth for the protection of the surrounding parts. If the bleeding con- tinue in spite of all other measures, the lingual artery should be taken up above the great cornu of the os hyoides'. Flaubert, of Lyons, tied the vessel as a preliminary measure. Should the disease encroach on the base of the tongue, the application of a ligature in the ordinary way is, as has been stated, far from easy and may be impracticable. Under these circumstances the complaint had been considered beyond the reach of surgical in- terference, until the bold performances of Jules Cloquet, Mirault2, and Mr. Arnott3, proved that a ligature might be safely applied from beneath the jaw. See Tongue. (d.) Tonsils.—Hypertrophous induration of the tonsils is a condition of most common occurrence, while the deposition of true scir- rhus in these glands is exceedingly rare. Their removal is strongly indicated if, resist- ing ordinary treatment, they continue to in- crease in size ; for if they really be the seat of cancerous infiltration, this may extend back- wards into the pharynx beyond the easy reach of instruments. The modes of excising or applying a ligature to these bodies (the for- mer is the better operation according to the testimony of most practical surgeons, although it is accompanied with the risk of severe hae- morrhage) are described in the article Ton- sils. We have never observed encephaloid tu- mour or infiltration of these glands, and be- lieve that the following description by Dr. Carswell is almost unique. In speaking of cancer of the lymphatic system we have re- ferred to the subject furnishing these very remarkable appearances. “ The amygdalae, formed entirely of cerebriform matter, pre- sented a pale yellow colour tinged here and there with red specks, produced apparently from the rupture of minute blood-vessels. ; Sec Fig. 85, No. 3. p. 263. 3 Diet. <le Med. 2eme ed. t. xvii. p. 497. 3 Med. Chir. Trans, vol. xxii. p. 20. 1839. They had also lost that characteristic appear- ance from which they derive their name, having become almost, perfectly smooth, from the accumulation of the cerebriform matter and the distension of their envelope.” (e.) Pharynx.—Scirrhus of the infiltra- ted form is the species of cancer most com- monly observed in the pharynx ; cerebriform growths, except in the shape of fungating masses, from an ulcerated basis, have been more rarely met with in this situation. Car- cinoma of the pharynx is under all circum- stances an uncommon disease. When first examined it usually presents itself as a hard imperfectly circumscribed mass, occupying a variable extent of the submucous tissue of the canal, and invested by the mucous membrane, which in the early stages retains to all appear- ance its normal characters. The swelling or tumour—for, from the abundance of infiltra- tion, distinct and irregularly rounded eleva- tion is produced—may be pressed, unless its mucous surface be accidentally inflamed, with- out exciting pain. Eventually the surface ulcerates and the opening presents the charac- ters elsewhere assigned to cancerous ulcera- tion, gives rise to the same haemorrhage and foetid discharge, while fungating growths, with the tendency to the pyriform and cauliflower- shape, sprout from its edges or centre. The diseased mass is now tender to the touch. The destructive process spreads in different directions : in a case we had an opportunity of observing at the Hotel-Dieu in 1885, the base of the tongue, the velum palati, and part of the epiglottis were destroyed ; in other in- stances the oesophagus, the posterior region of the nares, &c. suffer. The cervical glands undergo the changes observed in cancerous disease. It would appear that the morbid matter in many cases accumulates to some amount be- fore it excites any very distinct symptom ; a sensation of fullness in the affected region, and trifling difficulty in swallowing, have often existed for some time before they become sufficiently troublesome to alarm the patient. But the supervention of pain at length rouses his apprehensions, and the pharynx, examined at this period, generally presents the incipient changes above described. The dysphagia increases, the ingesta, both solid and liquid, frequently return through the nostrils in the efforts to swallow, and deglutition at length becomes impossible without the aid of instru- ments. Before this, ulceration has usually set in, and the discharge from the sore is re- jected from time to time with a painful effort, evidently distinct from that of vomiting. Part of the sanies, however, is swallowed, or gravi- tates into the stomach, where its presence ex- cites nausea, and sometimes, it is said, a burn- ing sensation. The extension of the disease to the larynx is announced by a change in the voice, which rarely, however, terminates in complete aphonia. The posterior nares arc sometimes obstructed with fungating produc- tions ; in this case, according to the remark of