803 CONCUSSION. beyond the callous ring, and bind it down by the same straps. From day to day the edges become absorbed, and granulations spring up, and the cure is quickly effected. The lead should be daily renewed ; nothing need be placed on the sore underneath the lead. The success of this plan is very general. The mode of application of compression must not, how- ever, be taken to be a matter of indifference ; for upon this, in most cases, depends its effi- cacy. When applied improperly, particularly in the course of nerves, it often excites into- lerable pain ; or, in the course of the absorb- ent trunks, engorgement of the lymphatics. Compression, if exerted on a part in suffi- cient degree of intensity to arrest the cir- culation of blood through it, will produce mortification. This may be caused by the pressure applied on a single blood-vessel of sufficient size and importance to the life of the part, or by compressing all the vessels which nourish and feed the part. One of the evils consequent on the tying an artery for the obliteration and cure of aneurism, is mortifi- cation of the limb. I have witnessed the compression produced by a small spicula of bone on the artery in the ham, the result of comminuted fracture, produce gangrene of the leg. I have seen a case of effusion of blood in the popliteal space, from the wounded artery, produce mortification of the limb. But when the circulation is entirely impeded by compression exerted on all the vessels of the part, mortification is the necessary result. I have witnessed gangrene of the hand, from tight bandaging for fracture of the bones of the fore-arm. The sloughing penis in para- phimosis is an example of this kind of com- pression. A strangulated intestine is another. Surgery, however, imitates these examples. It resorts to a ligature around a pendulous tumour, which drops off under the strangula- tion of its vessels. The same expedient is resorted to for the destruction of haemorrhoids, and most successfully in the obliteration of nsevus. The strangulation of a portion of the tongue has been successfully adopted in cases of cancer. The employment of compression in the cure of aneurism has been spoken of under that head. Its effects as a haemostatic will be treated of under the head of FLemor- rhage and Tourniquet. For the uses and applications of excentric pressure see Dila- tation. ( Wm. Wickham.') COMPRESSOR. An instrument for the compression of arteries invented by J. L. Petit. Several modifications of it have been since produced by Dupuytren, Colombat, and Charriere, but all on the same principle. The limb, or parts, being compressed between two pads attached to a circular hoop, and the pres- sure being effected by means of a screw which acts on one of the pads. Modern makers of these instruments have aimed at establishing compression upon arteries without interrupt- ing the course of the blood in the collateral arteries. (See Tourniquet, and Aneurism.) CONCUSSION, from con and cutio, to shake together. Erschiitterung, Ger.; com- motion, Fr. The shock or commotion pro- duced on living organs by the sudden impetus of force or momentum, whether the force be applied directly upon, or at a distance from, those organs. The effects of concussion are propagated with an intensity proportioned to the com- pactness or density of the elements through which the force is transmitted. The soft parts, when struck, are contused, ruptured, or de- stroyed ; they suffer the violence themselves, and transmit its effects but feebly, if at all, to the denser structures. The bones, on the contrary, the hard ones more especially, trans- mit shocks with unabated force to the organs in their vicinity,—shocks which produce, in proportion to the delicacy of the structure of the organ so injured, and the importance of its function, the most serious, and indeed, sometimes, immediately fatal consequences. When the transmission of the shock is most complete, dissection will not enable us to detect any apparent alteration in the tissue of the injured organ. Thus external violence applied to the head, or even to the trunk, may affect the brain or spinal marrow to such a degree, as to give rise to the most alarming symptoms, followed by death ; and yet not the slightest trace of its destructive commo- tion can he discovered. When the shock has produced laceration of the organ, the case is not one of commotion or concussion, but of counter-coup. The concentration of the shock, whereby the laceration has been effected, pro- tects the general mass from the effects of the commotion. The same thing may be observed when the bones, instead of transmitting the shock, are fractured ; in this case also the force is so spent, that it is not propagated, at least to a dangerous extent, to the neighbour- ing organs. Whatever be the change induced in the organic structures by the shock thus trans- mitted, whether it be from the destruction of the cohesion in the living molecules, or from simple stasis of the vital actions, the effect varies. In some cases of violent concussion both function and life are at once destroyed ; in others the function only is suspended, and the individual is stunned, or insensible. After remaining in this state for an indefinite period, the functions are gradually restored. The temporary inactivity of the injured organs is not, however, followed by a healthy and vigorous activity. The circulation through them is languid. The blood flows to the or- gans; but the latter do not transmit it with their wonted celerity, and they become con- gested. The surgeon must be on the watch for these phenomena, and act with caution and decision. The symptoms indicative of col- lapse demand the employment of stimulants, internal as well as external. The congestion