470 BISTOURY. be little or no chance of wounding' the obtu- rator artery, however close it might be to the part requiring to be cut. Instead of having the edge on the concave side, Dupuytren, for the same operation, used a knife with a small extent of cutting edge on the convex side. The advantage of this kind is, that only a small part of the edge is applied at one time. A straight narrow-bladed bistoury, with a probe point, is sometimes used, but it possesses no peculiar advantage. All the instruments above described, are often, for the sake of convenience, made so that the blade fits into the handle in the man- ner of a pocket-knife. At the junction of the blade with the handle, the mechanism is such, that when the blade is fully opened, it cannot readily be shut again, without raising a small catch which keeps it firmly fixed. This is an improvement on those made some years ago, which, when the finger was applied to the back of the blade, were apt to shut when not in- tended. The handle is made of two slips of ivory, or tortoiseshell, which are laid upon two thin plates of iron or brass, between which a spring is contained, and the blade kept steady, as in a pocket-knife. On the back of that part of the blade which is between the leaves of the handle, a small square notch is cut, into which a corresponding projection on the under surface of the spring passes, when the blade is fully extended. By this mechan- ism, until the spring is a little raised by the thuinb-nail, it is not easy to close the blade. Sometimes, instead of the blade being pinned into the handle, the two are so constructed that they can be separated with ease at will, though there is no chance of this occurring by accident during an operation. In this way one handle may answer for a variety of blades. The chief advantage of these clasp bistouries, as they are technically called, is that they can be readily put into a small case, or worn in the pocket like a common penknife. Though originally constructed in France, some of our British cutlers seem to excel in the fabrication of these instruments. I have seen none better in make or material than those constructed by IVTCleod of Edinburgh. The most celebrated, perhaps, of all these instruments, is that which was used by Frere Come in the operation of lithotomy, the bis- toire, or lithotome cache, devised by him after the model of a knife used by Bienaise in the operation for hernia. In Come’s instrument, the blade, which is sharp-pointed, and curved, is entirely concealed in a sheath, from which it can be partially raised at will. Near the handle the blade is fixed in the sheath by a steel pin, which allows a hinge-like motion; behind this pin there is a rod extending in the direction of the handle, and separated about an inch from it at its extremity ; this rod is connected with the blade ; and when it is pressed towards the handle, the blade is raised from its sheath ; in this state the distance be- tween these two is greatest at their points. The instrument is so constructed that the dis- tance can be increased or diminished at the will of the surgeon. About fifteen lines is the greatest stretch. By means of a spring be- tween the handle and the rod, the blade is always confined in the sheath, until pressure is applied upon the rod, which then acts as a lever in raising the blade. This instrument is now seldom used in lithotomy, though it was often, and, by many considered the best for cutting the side of the prostate. After an opening of the usual size, and in the usual situ- ation, was made in the perineum with a scalpel, the point of the bistoire cache was passed through a small opening in the membranous portion of the urethra, along the groove of the staff into the bladder ; it was then opened to the extent the operator desired, and the left side of the prostate, and neck of the bladder, were cut in withdrawing the instru- ment. A more complicated form of the bis- toire cache has been recommended by Dupuy- tren, in which there are two blades, one on each side of the sheath, each being placed, when opened, at such an angle as, whilst with- drawing them from the bladder, to cut each lateral lobe of the prostate in a direction downwards and outwards. The operation, thus done, has been named the bilateral. The instrument is most ingeniously constructed, but does not seem to be much in use among lithotomists. Since the death of Dupuytren, a memoir by this distinguished surgeon has been published by Sanson and Begin, for the purpose of explaining the nature of the opera- tion with this instrument. The incisions into the membranous portion of the urethra were made by Dupuytren with a short double-edged bistoury, similar in shape, though somewhat smaller in size to the poniard-shaped knife, so celebrated in the history of Frere Jaques’ ope- ration. Many years ago, Mr. Thomas Blizard re- commended a bistoury for lithotomy, which has been a good deal used in this country. The blade is long and narrow, being fixed in a strong handle, and beaked at the point like a gorget. After an opening is made in the peri- neum, and membranous portion of the urethra, the beak of this knife is run along the staff into the bladder, and the necessary incision made in the prostate and bladder. When a beaked knife is preferred for this part of the operation, there is none better for the purpose than this one. Many surgeons of the present day prefer the bistoury to the common scalpel in almost all operations where the latter is in general employed. The length of the blade, in many instances, gives it a decided advantage over the scalpel; but in all cases where much accu- racy and steadiness is required, such as in cutting for arteries, this knife (the scalpel) should be used. In order to handle the bis- toury with dexterity a deal of practice on the dead body is necessary; and all students should practice dissections and operations with it before using it on the living body. In some modern works on operative surgery, particular instructions are laid down as to the different positions in which it ought to be held during