105 EMPYEMA. effusion. IV. PERIOD OF ABSORPTION. c. Effusion with Dilatation and Detrusion. a. Without Contraction of the Chest. b. With Contraction of the Chest. Affected side enlarged ; intercostal spaces widened; deprived of their natural concavity; sometimes surface even convex: smooth and glistening. Abolished. Almost abolished. The lower part of the chest seems slowly dragged upwards; a motion which commonly takes place later than the elevation and expan sion of the healthy side. Appearances of enlarge- ment and intercostal bulg- ing, &c. removed. l Gradually recover their ^natural freedom. Affected side of irregular shape ; more or less manifestly narrower than the other; the shoul- der depressed; lower angle of scapula tilted outwards. Retraction is either general or par- tial. i ( Imperfectly performed ; sometimes almost < totally abolished, and with the peculiar cha Iracter observed in effusion, with dilatation. Surface felt to be unnaturally smooth and even. Imperceptible. ! Generally abolished over entire surface. Natural intercostal de- pressions again felt : in- creased by emaciation. Occasionally re-appear, to disappear again. Again become manifest. Felt to be uneven and irregular. Are very rarely to be felt. | Producible. Ceases to be producible. i Perfectly dull wherever the fluid exists. Gradually acquires nor- mal clearness, first at the upper, and ultimately at the lower parts. The base is commonly perfectly dull sound- ing ; the sound becoming gradually clearer upwards. A precise line of demarcation is extremely rare. The limits of the dull sound cease to be thus influenced. None. ! Extreme wherever dullness complete. Increases clearness of sound. Regains the healthy standard, as the sound un- der percussion. Increases clearness somewhat at the mode- rately dull parts. In proportion to the sound. Totally absent, except in a space about two inches broad along the spine, where commonly hard. In some cases heard under the clavicle. Gradually restored, com- mencing with the upper part of the chest; at first hard. At base abolished: at upper parts gradually restored; but commonly hard. This restora tion may not occur for many months after the commencement of contraction. 1 1’rolonged and bronchial, where inspiration 1 heard. Follows course of inspira- tion, gradually losing its prolonged and bronchial characters. At base abolished : at upper parts prolonged, and of bronchial or even blowing quality. None. 1 Inaudible (see note, p. 98). None. Again become audible, and continue so for an un- certain time. None. Commonly audible: vary in type from lea- ther-creak to slight rubbing sound. No resonance. jEgophony (redux) or bronchophony re-appear, and again disappear, com- monly with rapidity. Bronchophony at posterior aspect very com- monly. ; Not productive of any sound of fluctuation. Greater than natural. Greater than natural. Greater in superficial measurement than natural. Falls to healthy standard. Falls to healthy standard. Falls to healthy standard. Less than natural. Less than natural. Less than natural. ? , ? Less than on healthy side. In some instances same on both sides, though level of nipple lower on diseased than healthy side; in others greater on the contracted side. Less on diseased than on healthy side. Less on diseased than on healthy side. Liver or spleen, with corresponding ala of the diaphragm forced downwards; heart de- truded to the side opposite the effusion ; medi- astinum similarly displaced. The displaced parts re- cover their former posi- tions. Diaphragm and subjacent viscera occasion- ally drawn beyond their natural level towards the diseased side; heart commonly restored to its natural position (see text).