454 BALANITIS. to the smell. It is generally thickened with sebaceous matter ; occasionally it is thinner, and more like ordinary pus. If phymosis exists, the discharge may be supposed to come from the urethra. Its ori- fice may pout, and the point of the glans may look red and tumid ; but, on wiping it with lint, and making pressure along the course of the urethra, no matter is observed to issue from the latter, whilst similar pressure behind the corona, and on the glans itself, occasions its exit from the praeputial orifice. It may be difficult to determine whether the discharge proceeds from the surface of the mucous membrane, or from ulcerations behind the corona, or on the inner prepuce. But if ulcers exist, there is more tenderness on pres- sure ; and when they have lasted for any length of time, hardness may commonly be felt. This latter symptom is not so charac- teristic as might, perhaps, be supposed. Warts behind the corona may co-exist with balanitis, and the sensation communicated to the finger, on making pressure from without, is so like what could result from indurated sores, that I have been more than once deceived by it. On the whole, it must be owned, that occa- sionally it is difficult to determine, in the first instance, whether the case is one of balanitis, or of sores, and the effects of remedies go a great way towards clearing up the question. If phymosis is not present, the diagnosis of balanitis is simple. On retracting the prepuce, the glans, the gutter behind the corona, and the inner prepuce itself exhibits a patchy red- ness, dependent on partial abrasion of the epi- thelium. On examining the surface with a glass, the papillaj on the reddest spots may bo observed to be denuded. A creamy substance adheres in places to the mucous membrane. This is the sebaceous matter, mixed, perhaps, with pus, and its aspect and odour are equally peculiar. What the effects of this disorder would be, were it permitted to proceed unchecked, I cannot take upon me to determine. No doubt it often ends in the chronic form, and it may give rise to results, which are occasionally witnessed—extensive warts, ulcerations of the prepuce, and protrusion even of the glans through a morbid opening in the latter. But this is an extreme case. Balanitis may be attended with inflamma- tory complications, such as inflammation of the absorbents of the penis, inflammation and enlargement of the lymphatic gland, on the pubes, or in the groins; suppuration in the cellular membrane of the penis is occasionally, though rarely observed. The causes of balanitis may be enumerated without difficulty. The great predisposing cause is too long a prepuce, with acrid, if not retained, secretions. The act of connection is usually the immediate cause. If the vene- real orgasm is frequently repeated, or if the secretions of the female are morbid, the occur- rence of the disorder becomes the more pro- bable. Severe exertions, a long walk, local friction, however occasioned, all tend to pro- duce it. Free living assists their operation, andl have more than once seen balanitis follow a dinner-party, or a debauch, independently of obvious local excitement. The treatment of acute balanitis is simple. If the prepuce admits of retraction, the whole mucous surface should be gently, but effectually, washed with warm water, so as to remove the secretion that adheres to it. Lint dipped in a solution of the liquor plumbi ace- tatis, of the strength of about two drachms to the pint of water, should then be applied, and retained. The lint should be changed twice or thrice daily, and the tepid ablution em- ployed night and morning. Active aperients should be prescribed, and a cooling regimen, with quiet, should be recommended. If there is phymosis, and the glans cannot be uncovered, warm water should be injected between it and the prepuce, so as to syringe out, as effectually as possible, the sebaceous matter. This should be followed by similar injections of the diluted liquor plumbi, and the latter ought to be repeated several times in the day. Should inflammation of the absorbents of the penis, or of the lymphatic glands, be esta- blished, leeches, not to the body of the penis itself, but to the surrounding parts, may be requisite, and evaporating lotions should be had recourse to. General antiphlogistic regi- men should be used as a matter of course. If an abscess forms in the cellular membrane of the penis, it should be treated like an abs- cess elsewhere. If it occurs just behind the corona, which it sometimes does, it is very small, often not much larger than a pea, rarely equal in size to a marble. A not unfrequent situ- ation is contiguous to the fraenum. It may fairly be presumed that these small abscesses are immediately connected with the sebaceous glands. When opened, either by nature or the lancet, the aperture is apt to continue fistu- lous. It then becomes extremely small, and would seem to have no tendency to close spontaneously. But a fine heated wire intro- duced once or twice, readily effects a cure. I observe that M. Ricord recommends the introduction of a stick of nitrate of silver be- tween the prepuce and the glans. He sweeps it rapidly and lightly over the mucous mem- brane, and applies afterwards some lint, either dry, or dipped in water, or in the diluted liquor plumbi. He observes that one applica- tion may effect a cure, or it may be necessary to repeat it twice or thrice, at intervals of two or three days. It appears to me that this plan is not likely to be attended with any great ad- vantages. If the prepuce can be retracted, and ablution, and the liquor plumbi freely used, the complaint is usually cured in a day or two, and very rarely lasts so long a time, as would seem, in some instances, to be occupied by M. Ricord’s treatment. I have tried a strong solution of the nitrate of silver, but without such results as encouraged me to prefer it to the plan already recommended. If there is coin-