ASPHYXIA. 425 heart has no positively noxious influence on the muscles, and that its presence in the voluntary muscles supports their contractile power for a considerable period. {Kay, 182.) The effect of venous blood on the brain and nervous system has also been made the subject of inquiry by Dr. Kay, and various experiments which he has performed incline him to question even this part of Bichat’s doc- trine. He found that venous blood from one rabbit could be injected slowly and cautiously, so as to avoid all injury of the cerebral matter, into the carotid arteries of another, without causing more than muscular debility and las- situde ; and from this he concludes that venous blood is only a weaker stimulus to the brain than arterial, and that the functions of this organ cease in asphyxia, because the cir- culation being arrested in the lungs, the di- minished quantity sent to the brain is insuffi- cient for its functions. The general conclusion, then, which Dr. Kay deduces from all his investigations are, First, that the circulation is arrested after respiration ceases, because, from the exclu- sion of oxygen, and the consequent non-arte- rialization of the blood, the minute pulmonary vessels, which usually convey arterial blood, are then incapable of conveying venous blood, which therefore stagnates in the lungs. Secondly, that the arrest of the circulation is sudden when the lungs are entirely deprived of air, and that blood ceases to flow from them into the left cavities of the heart, even in the smallest quantities, in about three minutes and a half. Thirdly, that even supposing a great quantity of venous blood was transmitted through the lungs, it would not impair their contractility ; but, on the contrary, it is even capable of supporting this power for a certain period. Fourthly, that venous blood does not possess any noxious quality, by which the or- ganic functions of these tissues can be destroy- ed, but is simply a less nutritious and less sti- mulating fluid than arterial blood ; and lastly, that the functions of the muscular fibre cease in asphyxia, because the circulation, and con- sequently the supply of the fluid which is necessary to life, is arrested in the lungs. Of the different theories just enumerated, that proposed by Dr. Kay has received the most general assent of physiologists ; except in that portion of it which relates to the cause of the stagnation of the blood in the venous capil- laries of the lungs. In the natural condition of the lungs, the circulation is carried on in those organs as in other parts of the body by arteries and veins; but here the arteries convey to them the venous blood, delivered by the right heart, and the same blood after being arterialized, is carried by the veins to the left heart. The venous blood in the lungs has been looked upon in consequence, as the n«+ural stimulant to the capillary ramifications of the pulmonary artery, and the arterial blood as the natural stimulant i to the capillary ramifications of the pulmonary veins. We have seen that Dr. Kay thinks it pro- bable, that the vessels in which the arterial blood circulates, must differ in their peculiar sensibilities from those which propel the venous blood, and that when venous blood enters those vessels which formerly conveyed arterial blood only, this degenerated fluid is no longer able to excite their action, and the circulation stagnates in the structure of the lungs. But we very much question how far this explanation of the cause why the non-trans- mission of the venous blood through the capil- laries of the pulmonary veins is correct ; particularly when it is remembered, that after respiration has been arrested, the right heart continues so long to send with force the blood to the lungs. And, moreover, Dr. Kay him- self agrees not merely with Bichat, in oppo- sition to Goodwyn, that venous blood stimu- lates the left heart ; but in opposition to Bichat’s own theory, has shown by experiment, that it is capable of exciting instead of destroy- ing the contractility of the muscles ; and if cautiously and slowly injected through the carotids, of even stimulating the brain, though in a weaker degree than arterial blood. This then being the case, as regards the action of venous blood in other organs of the body, it is a fair presumption, that in the lungs its presence is a sufficient stimulus to those capillaries, which in the natural process of respiration convey arterial blood ; and if so, some other cause to account for the stagna- tion of the blood in these vessels must be looked for, besides the degeneration of this fluid rendering it an insufficient stimulus to the capillary ramifications of the pulmonary veins. On this question Dr. Alison, whose opinion on all questions in physiology is deserving of much respect, observes, “ the stimulus to the circulation which is given by the arterializa- tion of the blood, which we have found to act chiefly in the capillaries of the lungs, is of the nature of an attraction of the venous blood, towards the part where it is to undergo this change, and towards the arterial blood in ad- vance of it in the vessels ; not of the nature of an increased contraction of the vessels them- selves ; and that it is in consequence of the failure of this auxiliary power in the circulation, that the stagnation of the blood in the lungs in asphyxia, and the extinction of the organic life, are effected.” This theory Dr. Alison arrives at, from a consideration of the powers which move the blood and other organized fluids in living animals, independently of any contractions of moving solids, such as the flow of blood to the mucous membrane of the stomach and bowels during digestion, to the uterus during gesta- tion, and to any part of the body during in- flammation. All which movements of the fluids, to a certain degree, are caused to be directed towards the part, where the power of digestion, &c. resides, by any stimulus given to such act of nutrition or secretion, although applied at the extremity of the capillaries,