228 FISTULA, URINARY. face. The pelvis, likewise dilated and pro- vided with dense resisting walls, was filled with a calculus, rough and uneven on the sur- face, and sending prolongations into the cali- ces. The mammillae and the cortical sub- stance were almost totally removed by atro- phy, in such a manner that the fibrous invest- ment, which formed a tolerably thick shell, was in contact with the pus, and the prolongations of the calculus. The remnants of real sub- stance still visible in the midst of all this dis- organization, and the membrane of the pelvis, presented the slate-coloured hue of chronic inflammation. At the apex of the kidney, and at the extremity of a dilated calyx, appeared a small perforation, with smooth and rounded corners, six millimeters in diameter ; this formed a communication between the interior of the calices and pelvis, and a small excavation under the diaphragm, which in turn communicated with the lung through a perforation in the diaphragm six or eight millimeters wide. A child’s sound could be passed from the pelvis into the bronchus, opening into an excavation in the lung. The pulmonary tissue of the low’er lobe was indu- rated and infiltrated with sanguineous serosity to a considerable extent around the fistulous canal ; the middle and upper lobes were also somewhat infiltrated with serosity, but they crepitated in several places, and contained only a few tuberculous nodules still unsoft- ened. The adhesions prevented the smallest effusion into the pleura or peritoneum. All the urine excreted by the patient was furnished by the right kidney, the pus by the left only. Thus was explained the only puz- zling circumstance connected with the history of the case during life, and tending to throw doubt upon the correctness of the diagnosis ventured upon, namely, the absence of cry- stals, of lithic acid, or other microscopical evidences of the presence of urine in the matters expectorated. Broncho-hepatic.—Abscesses of the liver, especially of its upper part, sometimes make their way through the diaphragm and pleural adhesions into the lung, and are evacuated by the bronchi. Numerous cases of this kind are to be found in the periodicals, and in works devoted to the pathology of the liver. A much more rare issue of the disease, but one which has been actually observed, is the passage of the pus obliquely through the lower part of the lung to the surface of the thorax, when at a spot more or less near to the liver it accumulates and forms a subcu- taneous abscess. Pleuro-hepalic.—The ordinary means em- ployed by nature to prevent the effusion of pus from the liver into the cavity of the pleura—namely, the formation of abundant pseudo-membranous matter—are sometimes neglected, and the morbid fluid, instead of being conducted across that cavity, escapes into it. A manifest case of this kind is related by Morgagni, in his 34th Epistle, art. 4. The abscess of the liver occupied a third of the organ, and the contents of it “ had burst after perforation of the diaphragm into the right cavity of the thorax, which was quite full of sanious pus. The lung was sound.” Broncho-intestinal.—Dr. Stokes found the following remarkable lesions in a man who had for some time laboured under the sym- ptoms of empyema. “ A gangrenous cavity existed in the upper portion of the right lung, communicating with the bronchial tubes and pleura ; this sac, the upper part of which contained air, was about half filled with a yellowish and fetid liquid, in which were found the debris of numerous hydatids. A large opening passed through the dia- phragm into the substance of the liver, and from this cavity another fistula proceeded to the ascending colon; so that a false passage tvas formed from the bronchial tubes to the colon and rectum.” A singular symptom, from which the patient had suffered during life, was thus accounted for ; it appears that “ on sitting up, the patient was immediately attacked with a tendency to diarrhoea, and discharged a sero-purulent fluid in consider- able quantity per anum ; on lying down the discharge always ceased FISTULA, URINARY2. Under this term is comprehended every anormal track, opening, or sinus, occurring in any point of the urinary passages, communicating externally with the skin, or, internally, with important organs, such as the rectum or vagina. The general term is again individualized, according to the situation of the orifice; and thus we have the terms, lumbar, or renal—perineal— urethral—urethro-rectal — urethro-vaginal— ve- sico-vaginal-—and vesico-rcclal, all of which are relative to the point of solution of continuity in the urinary passages, or to the situation of the external orifice of the fistula, or to anormal communication with internal organs. The number of these terms might even be still further increased, as the situation of the ex- ternal orifice varies greatly, being sometimes placed in the thigh, buttocks, walls of the abdomen, chest, &c. Lumbar, or Benal Fistula.—Many cases of this kind are recorded in authors. Chopart mentions several, in which calculi formed in the kidneys, and making their way towards the surface by ulceration, had caused the for- mation of a fistula. In most of these cases a spontaneous cure took place upon the expul- sion or extraction of the foreign body. If the fistula should persist, our interference should not proceed beyond attention to clean- liness. In the case of small calculi being retained within the wound, it will be proper to favour their exit, by keeping the orifice dilated. A kidney, which remains perma- nently the seat of this affection, gradually wastes, and is finally reduced to the condition 1 On Diseases of the Chest, p. 3Go. 2 Sections of this subject have been already treated of in a preceding part of this article.