ANATOMY, SURGICAL. to be made in Morbid Anatomy in connexion with every organ of the body. It is not every individual, or every year, which will furnish a discovery like that of Dr. Bright, with respect to a particular derangement of the kidneys, or that of Dr. Davies, in elucidation of the pathology of phlegmasia dolens. But by sedulously applying ourselves to the subject of pathological anatomy, we shall be surprised at the frequent occurrence of discoveries of greater or less importance ; and at the fair promises of the field yet open to future research. It is not only in the exami- nation of rare and remarkable cases, or even in studying the various appearances exhibited in the pathological condition of a particular organ, that much may yet be done in this de- partment. There is abundant scope for fur- ther labour with respect to the commonest diseases by which our bodies are assailed. All of these call for investigation on a more extensive scale. The collection of cases must not only be numerous, but in all a faith- ful record must be kept, of the age, sex, temperament, occupations, and habits of the individual; of the time of year, of the symp- toms, and of the treatment and its effects. These particulars must not be confined to the unsuccessful or fatal cases, but should also be extended as widely as possible to those in which the issue has been favourable. With respect to the fatal cases, not only the organ principally affected should be examined, but also the condition of those apparently uncon- nected with it, should be observed and noted. The aggregate of such observations would become the basis of a statistical inquiry, which, whilst it would do away with many precon- ceived and erroneous notions, would also bring to light many curious, but unexpected and important results. This process consti- tutes the numerical system so strenuously advocated, and ably put in practice by that distinguished pathologist, Professor Louis. It w'ould be an injustice to this system to confound it with medical reasoning, and medi- cal philosophy. It is the means, or instru- ment, (and the most powerful instrument, too,) by which those facts are to be obtained, with which alone a sound medical philosophy can be constructed on the ruins of those sys- tems and speculations which this same power- ful engine must level with the dust. In Paris, a band of youthful and devoted pathologists have combined to bring this engine into work ; and I would fain indulge the hope, that the energies of the rising mem- bers of the medical profession in this country may be animated by a generous rivalry, which will not suffer them to be surpassed. Bibliography. — Theoph. Bond, Sepulchretum, sive anatomia practica, edente J. Manget. Lugduni, 1700, 3 vols. folio. Lieutaud, Historia anatomieo- medica. 2 vols. 4to. Paris, 1767. Clossy, Observa- tions on some of the Diseases of the parts of the Hu- man Body, chiefly taken from the dissections of mor- bid bodies. 8vo. Bond. 1763. Conradi, Handbuch der pathologischen Anatomie. Hanover, 17%. Voigh- 20 3 tel, Handbuch der Path. Anatomie mitzusatzen, 1804, 1805. Laennec and Bayle, Art. Anatomie Pathol’ Diet, des Sciences Med. Paris, 1812. Meckel, J. F. Handbuch der Path. Anatomie. Leipz. 18)2. Ibid Tabulae Anat. Path. 1817 et 1826. Farre, J. R. The Morbid Anatomy of the Liver, fasc. 4to. London, 1812— 15. Howship, J. Practical Observations in Sur- gery and Morbid Anatomy, with Dissections and En- gravings, London, 1818. Cruveilhier, Essai sur PAna- tomie Pathologique. Paris, 1816. Anatomie Pathol, du corps humain, publiee par Livraison, in fol. Bayer, Sommaire d’une histoire abregee de l’Anatomie Patho- logique. Paris, 1818, 8vo. Paletta, Exercitationes Pathological. Mediolani, 1820—26, 2 vols.4to. Mor- gagni, De Sedibus et Causis morborum per anato- men indagatis. edent. Chaussier et Adelon. Paris, 1822. Bichat, Dernier conrs d’Anatomie Patholo- gique par Boisseau. Paris, 1825. Andral, Clinique Med. Paris, 1823—27; et Precis d’Anatomie Patho- logique, 1829, 3 vols. Louis, Recherches anatomico- pathologiques sur la Phthisie, et autres Memoires. Paris, 1825—29. Billard, Sur la Membrane mu- queuse gastro-intestinale. Paris, 1825. Baillie, The Morbid Anatomy of some of the most important parts of the human body. Last edition, with observations on diseased structures, by J. Wardrop. London, 1830. Bright, Reports of Medical Cases. London, 1827. Craigie, Elements of General and Pathol. Anatomy Edinb. 1828. Ribes, De l’Anatomie Pathologique consideree dans ses vrais rapports avec la science des maladies. Paris, 1828. Lobstein, Traite d’Anatomie Pathologique. Paris, 1829—33. Beclard, Art. Anat. Pathologique. Diet, de Med. Paris, 1833. Carswell, Illustrations of the Elementary forms of Disease! Fasc. London, 1833—34, &c. Cruveilhier, Diet, de Med. et Chir. Prat. art. Anat. Pathologique. Ru- dolphi, Encyclop. Worterbuch der Medecinisch. Wis- senschaften, art. Pathologischen Anatomie. Berlin. (Thomas Hodgkin.') ANATOMY, SURGICAL. Under this term modern writers have endeavoured to describe that branch of anatomy which refers principally to the size, form, connexion, and relative situations of the parts contained in divers sections, or regions of the human body ; hence also various other denominations which are now generally understood, viz. anatomy of relations, anatomy of the regions, regional, graphical, topographical anatomy, &c.; some prefer calling it medico-chirurgical anatomy. Many objections might easily be made to these expressions ; but without dilating upon this subject, we shall at once follow the example of two able authorities, Allan Burns, and Dr. Colles, and content ourselves with the terms which head this article. It has been asked if there really were such a distinct branch of anatomical science as that named surgical anatomy ? or, in other words, . whether descriptive anatomy does not em- brace every particularity of that science which can be useful to the surgeon ? A good ana- tomist, no doubt, is perfectly conversant with all the parts of the human frame, their size, form, and uses ; he can lay bare the most hid- den artery with the utmost facility ; he can open the most difficult joint with entire con- fidence and great rapidity ; to such a person, surgical anatomy will rarely be of importance. But this does not diminish the usefulness of that study! To the profound anatomist, a knowledge of the accurate relative situations of parts contained in a region is the most dif-