FRACTURE. 388 severe as yesterday. Twenty leeches to be applied, and the other remedies to be con- tinued. May 15th. The pain has now consi- derably decreased. A poultice was ordered to be applied over the knee. May 18th. Still going on well. The man not at all irritable, but keeps the limb perfectly at rest. From this time the case continued to proceed fa- vourably, no bad symptom occurring ; and the patient was discharged perfectly cured on June 27th. “ The following very fortunate case was published by Mr. Ward of Nottingham, in the fifth volume of the Guy’s Hospital Reports. “ ‘ Case.—On the evening of November 2d, 1838, I was called,’ says Mr. Ward, ‘ to attend Mr. E. M., residing six miles' from Hunting- don, who, on his return from shooting, had received a gun-shot wound of the right knee, in attempting to force his dog from its kennel with the butt-end of a loaded gun. “ When I arrived at his residence I found that he had been removed to bed, with the assistance of my friend Mr. Abbott, surgeon, of Cambridge, who fortunately happened to arrive in the village a few minutes after the accident occurred, and whose long experience and well known professional talents rendered his opinion and advice extremely valuable in the treatment of this remarkable case. “ The contents of the gun had struck the patella on the outside of the knee, carrying away the whole of that bone, except a small, solid, triangular portion, which still remained attached to the ligament ; there was a nearly circular wound of the integuments, completely exposing the joint, and sufficiently large to admit my whole hand into the joint betw een the tibia and femur ; but the cartilages of those bones appeared uninjured. The pro- priety of immediate amputation was the first subject that suggested itself. Upon mature deliberation, however, we resolved to attempt to save the limb, for the following reasons — first, because the exposed bones, both femur and tibia, with their cartilages, were unin- jured ; secondly, because the soft parts around the wound, not being lacerated or contused, rendered it less probable that extensive slough- ing would take place ; thirdly, because our patient was young, of good constitution, and temperate habits ; and having recently re- covered from a serious wound of the thumb, from the bursting of his gun early in Septem- ber, the judicious dietetic treatment enjoined by the surgeon who attended him on that oc- casion, which had been continued to the pre- sent time, had brought him into the most favourable condition for sustaining the ill effects likely to arise from so formidable an injury. “ The patient was placed on his back, with the knee slightly flexed ; a large poultice ap- plied to the wound, and a full dose of opium given. He passed a quiet night, and in the morning I found him in good spirits, with a quiet and regular pulse, and with merely a slight aching in the knee. No unfavourable symptoms, either local or constitutional, oc- curred during the progress of the case, nor wras his pulse even in any degree accelerated. An anodyne at bed-time for a few nights, and occasional aperients, were the only medicines required. Poultices were continued until granulations began to arise ; after wdiich (the remaining small portion of patella having been removed,) the surface was dressed with lint dipped in oil, and strips of adhesive plaster were applied in various directions to assist in approximating the edges of the wound. On the 21st of January, 1839, the wound being quite healed, Mr. M. was able to dress him- self and sit up in a chair. In a short time, with the aid of a suitable splint and bandage, he went upon crutches ; and in the middle of March he came to my house, six miles, on horseback. “ He has continued well to the present time, and has long discontinued wearing a splint or any application to the knee. The cicatrix is very firm, and there is considerable motion of the joint ; so that Mr. M. can, not only walk very well without a stick, and even run without much inconvenience, but in No- vember last I saw him dancing quadrilles at a ball in this town.” These cases, as Sir A. Cooper justly adds, seem to show, to how great an extent we may trust to nature’s efforts, when assisted by a sound constitution and healthy temperament; but I do not think with him that they con- firm the common conclusion,—that small punc- tured wounds are more commonly followed by severe constitutional disturbance. An incised wound, large or small, or a laceration, little or great, may heal with the least degree of in- flammation that the lesion admits of; or, on the other hand, the local and general disorder may go on from bad to worse : but, there is nothing in surgery to prove, that inflammation spreads beyond the immediate vicinity of a wound, from any cause connected with the woutid itself. I do not include poisoned wounds, nor do I compare injury of skin with that of fascia or synovial membrane ; nor, again, do I lose sight of the differences which the treatment of the various wounds of a joint may give rise to. Mr. Bransby Cooper, in commenting on the cases related above, remarks, that in punc- tured wounds of articulation, “there is not the same degree of prostration as when an exten- sive wound lays open a large joint, which accident is generally followed by faintness almost approaching to collapse.” Now, this can hardly fail to modify the subsequent symptoms. Slight wounds are less speedily and carefully attended to, and there may be, I conceive, other explanatory circumstances ; but, in my own limited experience—all other circumstances being equal—the effects of a wound have been duly in proportion to its extent and severity. It would be easy to col- lect accounts of every variety of punctured wound of the peritoneum, and even of many abdominal viscera, unattended with mischief; and, again, of genera! peritonitis, and matting