375 FRACTURE. thigh and the leg flexed; and the displaced outer fragment was then reduced. A double inclined plane was then used, formed of seve- ral pillows placed one above another ;—each having been firmly rolled up, and the whole compacted by sewing—another pillow was placed lengthwise over the pile, on which the limb was made to rest from the hip to the heel. Sheets folded round the limb, and secured to the four posts of the bed, were also applied to keep the thigh and leg in its right position. The double inclined plane was gradually lowered after the fractured part was consolidated. Fig. 329. Comminuted fracture of the trochanter major from direct violence in an aged person. A fracture which separates the trochanter major freely from its attachment, must chiefly result from direct violence, in which, however, the gluteus medius may take a part. The fragment is to be discovered loose and widely detached ; not following the movements of the shaft, but mostly affording some crepitus when depressed, or when the knee is carried for- wards. This part may be comminuted, or it may be so broken, that its fibrous covering may not allow displacement. An easy pos- ture, slight flexion, and abduction and pres- sure, will facilitate the reunion, which will be osseous, unless the separation has been great. The detached portion of the trochanter in some cases is drawn forwards towards the ilium, while in others it is found towards the tuberosity of the ischium ; in most cases the fragment is generally far removed from the surface, whence it had been detached. The foot may be benumbed ; and the patient expe- riences much pain and difficulty in all attempts to turn himself in bed. The soft tissues, having been inflamed, contract, and the frac- ture readily unites ; and a good use of the limb is regained. The accident may occur at any period of life. The epiphysis only of the great trochanter may be similarly detached. The following case occurred to Mr. C. A. Key. A girl about sixteen years of age tripped and fell, striking the right trochanter violently against the curbstone. She rose and walked home without much inconvenience. On the sixth day, in consequence of increased pain on the inner side of the thigh, she sought admission at Guy’s Hospital. The constitutional symptoms being violent, she was placed under the care of the physician. The limb was consider- ably wasted, and seemed half an inch longer than the other. It admitted of passive mo- tion in all directions ; but abduction caused considerable pain. Excessive fever led to her death on the ninth day. Suspecting some obscure fracture of the femur, Mr. Key now examined the limb anew, but he could find no crepitus, or inequality, or tumefaction. Pus was formed along the side of the pectineus towards its insertion, and extending behind the cervix femoris. A rupture had detached the great trochanter from the shaft, but without tearing through the tendons on the outer side of the process, namely, those of the two smaller glutei and vastus externus: these served as a hinge which allowed the trochan- ter to be only slightly moved in one direction when exposed by dissection. I have already adverted to fractures imme- diately below the trochanters; which are, hap- pily, not frequent. The flexors of the hip, devoid of all opposition, make the upper frag- ment point forwards, and this requires all the attention of the surgeon. First to raise the shoulders as much as may be, and then the knee, are the chief points; but if a double- inclined plane be employed, the knee should be but slightly bent. A straight splint, padded so as to give some flexion of the knee, and to elevate the foot, will sometimes answer. Rol- lers to the entire limb, and firm splints about the thigh, will be necessary to give it stability. The farther the fracture is distant from the trochanters, the more advantage may be ex- pected from direct means to depress the upper and projecting fragment1. 1 In children, pasteboard and rollers, and, perhaps, adhesive plaster, form the best apparatus; and nice attention secures the best success.