ABDOMEN. 10 purposes of function associated, and in which the organ undergoes such changes, as to be free and prominent at one time, and fixed and hidden at another. In the first class, we may place the kidneys with their appendages, the liver, pancreas, and spleen ; these are the organs that suffer most from the shock of falls, blows, or counter- violence, and the effect may be easily under- stood. They are soft in texture, and their power of yielding is limited ; two conditions which render them highly susceptible of the influence of shocks upon other regions of the body ; and thus we see explained the effect of a fall on the head in rupturing a bulky and soft organ like the liver. In the second class are the small intestines, the arch of the colon, and the large omentum. In the third class, we enumerate the stomach and duodenum, the uterus and its appendages, the bladder and rectum : all these organs dilate from their fixed points, and when thus dilated extend into vicinal, and even into remote regions. Thus the stomach when distended presents its large curvature to the anterior wall ol the abdomen, when collapsed, its anterior sur- face ; the bladder ascends above the pubis, sometimes attaining a height above the hypo- gastric region ; the body of the uterus, in the progress of gestation, quits the cavity of the pelvis, its fundus reaching as high as the epigaster. In these dilatations, one thing is worthy of remark ; namely, that the distended organ maintains a close relation with the ante- rior wall of the abdomen. The same obser- vation will apply to ovarian or other tumours developed within the abdominal cavity. Although, as a general rule, tumours de- veloped in the cavity of the abdomen are in immediate relation to the anterior wall, some interesting observations are recorded by Dr. Baron of' Gloucester, in the Medico-Chirur- gical Review, (No. 29, 1831) in which the paracentesis of these tumours would have been inevitably attended, in the one instance by puncture of the stomach, in the other with that of the bladder ; these organs being inter- posed between the tumours and the anterior wall. The fact was ascertained by the cada- verical examination. (See Paracentesis, Ova- ries.) . . We may now have some notion of the im- portant office which the peritoneum performs in regard to the organs of the abdomen. Some it binds down firmly; to others it gives a range of space in which their natural peristal- tic motion may have free play ; whilst to a third class, it gives a momentary power of expansion to be again confined within their original narrow limits: all which it effects without intricacy or confusion, by successively suspending' the different organs over vai ious points of the abdominal cavity, in such a man- ner as to prevent the weight of the incum- bent viscera from adding to the force of pres- sure against the weak points of the abdominal walls, and which without this precaution would be often overwhelming. How truly admira- ble must that arrangement be, by which (not to speak of other organs) an intestinal tube, ever-varying in its diameters, equalling in its length, six times the height of the individual, is folded into convolutions which maintain contact without confusion, and which mix and move perpetually without knotting with or impeding each other! One word more on the elasticity and exten- sibility of the viscera and walls of the abdo- men. In the enormous development of the abdominal parietes, as in ascites ; or of both parietes and viscera, as in tympanitis, al- though the distention may be excessive, the intestines are never ruptured from this cause, but the walls of the abdominal cavity may be so overstrained as to be rendered incapable of quick and perfect resiliency upon the organs, on the sudden removal of the dis- tending cause. This loss of elasticity in the walls involves the loss of due pressure upon the viscera; the secondary effects of which may be very serious. In ascites, the abdo- minal circulation is sustained in relation to the presence and pressure of a large accumu- lation of fluid ; let this fluid be suddenly re- moved by paracentesis, without any precau- tion being taken to continue the accustomed pressure artificially, the abdominal vessels being freed from the pressure of the mass of fluid become highly congested, the blood is returned but languidly to the heart, the cen- tre of the circulation flutters, the pulse be- comes unsteady and small, and syncope, and even death may supervene. After parturi- tion, too, where the distension has been exces- sive, the effects of the sudden abstraction of pressure are observable, and may continue for weeks, the woman complaining of pains in the loins, weakness, bearing down, loss of appetite, and wasting. The function of the abdominal parietes is in abeyance, and must be represented by a circular bandage applied with moderate tightness round the abdomen. These excessive distensions, however, it should be remarked, have the effect of weakening the abdominal walls, thinning the muscles, and slitting the aponeurotic fibres, and thus of increasing to a great extent the liability to protrusions of the viscera. The organs contained in the cavity of the abdomen suffer from displacement; we are not now alluding to the case of a transposi- tion of the viscera, but to the displacements known under the general denomination of her- nise, under which head they will be more pro- perly placed in a work of this kind. Abscess in the walls of the Abdomen— The principal purulent collections of the abdomen fall under consideration in the general article, Abscess, Psoitis, Urinary Extravasation, &c. In this place we shall only offer a few general reflections on the subject. The cellular tissue of the moveable abdo- minal walls is sometimes the seat of anthrax, furunculus, and abscess. The pus may form in the cellular substratum of the peritoneum, between the muscles, or, in the case of an- thrax, immediately under the skin. The de- velopment of these collections is attended I