ANGEIOLEUCITIS. 28G lar patches, anil not as streaks or hands. It would seem to be more intense and more ex- tensive according as the eye pursues it to a greater depth. The skin moreover being stretched, and as it were thinned, is shining, and more of a whitish or pale rose colour, than truly red, in the intervals of the inflamed points. Generally speaking, it is the deep lymphatic ganglions that first swell and be- come painful. The inflammation proceeds so rapidly, and to such an extent, that the deep- seated variety of angeioleucitis has, in many cases more the appearance of inflammatory oedema, than that of a diffused phlegmon or of a phlegmonous erysipelas. It would, however, be wrong to imagine that the two plans of the lymphatics may be thus long affected independently of each other. More frequently, on the contrary, the affec- tion of the superficial lymphatics is communi- cated to the deep-seated vessels, and vice versa. Hence in the first variety the engorgement, infiltration, and pain, are often found to ex- tend to the entire thickness of the parts, in the same manner as in the second ; sooner or later, red streaks, and true erysipelatous patches are seen on the skin ; and thus do the superficial and the deep-seated ganglions be- come almost invariably affected in both cases. There is, however, no difficulty in explain- ing this progress of the inflammation of the lymphatics. The ganglions swell because vitiated materials are presented to them in- stead of the fluids which usually pass through them. The bands and red streaks only show that the inflammation has been transferred to the cellular envelope of each of the inflamed vessels ; and it is only at the points where these vessels inosculate, or seem to form a net-work, that those patches of deeper red, and those kernels of greater hardness, can be discovered, because at these points, several inflamed lines may, at an early period, have been confounded, and extended from one to another, through the medium of the inter- posed cellular tissue. The tumefaction and engorgement, in this instance, as in every other inflammation, are attributable to the afflux and stagnation of the different fluids ; but they are more considerable, and more fre- quently accompanied by infiltration, because the lymphatic vessels cannot be, for any con- siderable time, inflamed, without having their calibre diminished, the course of the lymph deranged, or without causing a portion of the white fluids to be extravasated into the sur- rounding tissues, and thus to stagnate, in con- sequence of being forced out of their natural channels. The disease passes from one plan of the lymphatic vessels to the other, in con- sequence of the numerous communications that exist between them, and because, by the disturbance of the functions of the one the disease almost necessarily reacts on the other. It may be also added, that angeioleucitis must frequently' be followed by erysipelas or phlegmon in various shades, either on account of the stagnation of the fluids it produces in the surrounding tissues, thus giving rise to inflammation on the confines of the parts occupied by the disease, or because those fluids which it prevents from returning into the general circulation soon act as foreign bodies between the small canals that had been primitively affected. General symptoms.—These not being' sub- ject to the same modifications as the local symptoms, it becomes unnecessary to make a distinction in this respect between the superficial and deep-seated angeioleucitis. Its invasion is often announced by mere horripi- lation ; but more frequently it is ushered in, or preceded by, irregular rigors, or ague-fits, like those of vernal intermittent fever, or the trembling or agitation that indicates the ex- tensive inflammation of a serous membrane. These rigors, or tremblings, alternate with great heat and dryness of the skin, the rosy hue of which rather increases, than diminishes, at least during the first days of the attack. The pulse, always frequent, is at one time strong and full, as in an inflammatory fever ; at another, small and irregular, as in low fever. There is in general great thirst, and a feeling of anxiety about the praecordia ; the patient suffers from nausea, and sometimes from vomiting. Complete delirium is seldom manifested at first, but watchfulness and agi- tation are almost always present, accompanied by manifest alteration in the functions of the nervous system ; the mind seems absorbed in reveries; the ideas are confused. A part, or even the whole of these various symptoms may be present two or three days before the local symptoms become developed. The accompanying fever has nearly the same character as that of an exanthematous inflammation; with this difference, however, that instead of disappearing, it becomes ag- gravated after the development of the angeio- leucitis. The tongue is covered with a grey- ish or yellow fur ; it is soft, and but slightly reddened at its point or edges; it does not become dry till a more advanced period, un- less the disease be very intense. When this is the case, the point and centre are the first to become incrusted. In some cases, how- ever, it assumes the appearance of a rasp throughout its entire surface. In being dried up, it does not always lose its greyish or red colour; the tissue of the tongue itself seems to be hardened, just as much as the slimy crust with which it may be covered. At a later period it is entirely covered with crusts, and is cracked in the same manner as in typhus fever. The gums and the rest of the mouth become fuliginous, and most commonly delirium supervenes. On the whole, angeio- leucitis gives rise to a degree of general re- action, which resembles more closely an ataxic fever, than one of a purely adynamic cha- racter. We can easily account for the disorders we have been describing by arranging the symptoms into two distinct groups: the one produced by inflammation,—the other, result-