AMPUTATION. 128 cessity mig'ht be doubtful. But this is all that can be admitted. In connexion with tetanos, amputation can hardly be considered in any other light than as a preventive mea- sure. Poisoned wounds.—The bites of rabid or venomous animals are sometimes enumerated as cases that may require amputation. But all that has just been said concerning tetanos applies to these. To cut off a part, after the whole body has become impregnated with poison, is quite out of the question. As a remedial measure, it holds out not the least temptation : the physiological ground for its adoption is slender indeed, and the little ex- perience we have of its effects 1 is quite op- posed to it. In such cases, the cause of the wound is a circumstance that weighs in favour of amputation, supposing its gravity in other respects to indicate the operation. Ankylosis and Deformities.—Amputation has been sometimes performed to rid the patient of a merely troublesome or deformed limb. Where, for instance, its different parts have been thrown into such a position w ith regard to each other, by ankylosis, as to render it less use- ful, more troublesome, and more of a deformity than an artificial one w'ould be. Sometimes, indeed, amputation has been adopted mainly for the purpose of removing a part congeni- tally deformed, or rendered so by disease, and of making the body, in appearance, more sym- metrical. Such operations are said to have been performed at the earnest entreaty of the patient, and as it were out of condescension on the part of the surgeon ; they are, therefore, aptly enough termed by the French, amputa- tions de complaisance. But surely this is a degree of complaisance which nothing can justify. It is to be regretted that surgeons should ever yield to their patients’ wishes, to this extent ; and we are surprised to find so able a man as Velpeau seriously arguing the point, as if there could be any doubt about it. The only case w'hich admits of doubt is that in which deformity brings on disease, or where the two are combined; and for such a case we have already endeavoured to deduce, from right principles, the rule by w'hich the sur- geon’s conduct should be guided. Prognosis.—In speaking of the method by which the surgeon should proceed in order to decide, in each particular case under consider- ation, whether amputation should or should not be performed, we mentioned the neces- sity of taking into account all the circumstances relating to it. We have now' to notice those circumstances w'hich, it has been correctly ascertained, do affect the result of all amputations, and the knowledge of which is necessary to enable the surgeon to foresee the probable consequences of the operation he may have to perform ; in other words, to establish his prognosis. With respect to age, it may be said that the younger the subject the greater is the • Mr. Callaway amputated a limb in a case of hy- drophobia without the least benefit to the patient. chance of a successful issue ; for the restorative power of Nature and her capacity to resist the shock of a severe operation, are greater in the early period of life. In old persons the danger is often very great; their tissues are far from their highest state of elasticity, and the wound is apt to heal tardily. As regards the actual state of the patient’s body at the time of the operation, it has been pretty accu- rately made out, that a habit somew'hat re- duced is more favourable to success than ful- ness. In the former, the wound resulting from the operation, and consequently the amount of inflammation necessary for its cica- trization is proportionately small; the parts to be divided being free from turgescence, bear the action of the knife without much local irritation, and are not likely to occasion violent reaction in the system. In the latter condition of body, the wound is large, and the incised parts being voluminous and in full vital energy, feel more acutely, and aw'aken stronger and more extensive sympathy. The influence of the mental state may be likened to that exerted by the physical state. When the mind has quickly to determine upon making the sacrifice of a limb, it is done by an effort of some cost to its strength, which incapacitates it more or less to bear the operation ; while on the other hand, when a patient has been gradually prepared to expect amputation by a knowledge of its probable ne- cessity, a state of calm resignation, w'hich is highly favourable to success, is often induced. Patient and lasting courage is far more favour- able than sudden resolve. The patient, how- ever, must never be kept in a state of suspense when once the operation is decided upon. Mental indifference is decidedly unpropitious, especially when it results from a physical shock produced on the nervous system, as we often see in extensive and violent contusions and gun-shot w'ounds. The patient who does not care about getting well, most frequently dies. Yielding with fear and reluctance rather than with confidence, is bad. The most favourable mental condition is that in w'hich the patient feels the necessity of the operation so strongly as to consider it his duty to submit to it, and to second by his courage and confidence, the surgeon who has to perform so arduous and trying a task. Constitutions similar, and in appearance equally good, do not bear so severe a shock as that of amputation with the same impunity. We must consider not only the degree of health in the leading and important organs of the body, but also their pliancy; or, as it may be expressed, their willingness to accommodate themselves to a new state of things suddenly induced, and amounting in most cases to a vast change. This may be ascertained in some measure by an inquiry into previous circumstances. This w ant of the power of accommodation is soon evinced by disturbance in the principal functions. If the internal organs be unsound, the disease affecting them becomes active and