13G EPIPHORA. the wound left by the excision of the piece of skin. For Excision of the tarsus, amputation of the edge of the eyelid, and extirpation of the bulbs of the eyelashes, see Trichiasis. (T. Wharton Jones.') EPICANTHIS 0 7ti upon, KavQog can- thus). This name has been coined to desig- nate a congenital peculiarity, which consists of a fold of skin extending from the side of the root of the nose over the inner canthus of the eye. The free edge of the fold is crescentic, and its extremities are lost in the skin of the upper and lower eyelids. Dr. Ammon to whom we are indebted for the name, has performed an operation for the obliteration of the folds, which consists in the excision of an elliptical piece of skin from over the root of the nose on a level with the epicanthis, and then bringing the edges of the wound together by suture. It is seldom Fig. 245. however, that epicanthis impedes the move- ments of the eyelids so much as to render any operation necessary. The folds moreover usually disappear as the child’s nose increases in prominence. If however their size should be so considerable as to occasion a material personal blemish, the operation above-men- tioned may be had recourse to. (y. Wharton Jones.) EPIPHORA (from tiurptph), syn. tmipopa, Gr.; oculus lachrymans, lachrymatio, da- crynoma, Lat.; larnioiement, Fr.; Thrdnen- auge, Thranenfluss, Ger.)—By the term Epiphora is meant an excessive secretion of tears ; a secretion of tears so abundant that the excreting lachrymal organs, in their healthy and perfect state, are incapable of transmitting them into the nose with sufficient rapidity to prevent a portion of them from flowing down the cheek, or from collecting so as to constitute what is termed “ awatery eye.” Diagnosis.—Epiphora is very properly dis- tinguished from stillicidium lachrymarum, which depends on some affection of the excreting lachrymal apparatus, whereby the lachrymal fluid is prevented from being conveyed with normal rapidity from the lacus laehrymalis into the nose. It is very important,as respects treatment, to distinguish the watery state of the eye produced by an affection of the se- creting, from one occasioned by an affection of the excreting lachrymal apparatus ; and fortu- 6 nately, the means of doing so are not usually at all difficult. For instance, if a state of epi- phora exist, independently of any error in the position and arrangement of the tarsal margins, by which the perfection of the groove con- ducting the tears to the lacus laehrymalis is impaired ; and independently of the due for- mation of the lacus laehrymalis (which may be presented from various diseases of the eye- lids, enlargement or atrophy of the lachrymal caruncle, &c.) a relaxed or constricted state of the lachrymal puncta, or of any stricture, obstruction, or imperfection of any kind, at any part of the canal for the passage of the tears between the punctum and the term- ination of the nasal duct, it is manifest that it must depend on some abnormal condition of the excreting lachrymal apparatus. Causes.—Epiphora may arise from various morbid growths on the surface of the eye ; from warts or tumours at, or very near the tar- sal margin ; from the inversion of one or more eye-lashes ; from a morbid incurvation of the tarsal cartilage ; from foreign bodies in con- tact with or impacted in the conjunctiva or cornea ; from exposure of the eye to irritat- ing vapours ; and from various forms of local injury. Various inflammatory states of the eye, particularly strumous and pustular oph- thalmia, may occasion epiphora ; as also, vari- ous mental impressions and derangements of the health; chronic inflammation of the lachrymal gland, and conditions of continued excitement of that part from causes not ad- mitting of satisfactory explanation. Effects.—Epiphora, from whatever cause produced, is always a source of great annoy- ance. The accumulation of the tears impairs the accuracy of vision, and renders necessary the frequent use of the handkerchief, by which the eye is much irritated. The conjunctiva becomes more or less inflamed, and the eye is kept in a constant state of excitement, and acquires a disposition to become acutely in- flamed from very trivial causes. In addition to the risk of these injurious consequences, the lachrymal puncta are liable to become patulous and relaxed, and thus to lead to a permanent condition of stillicidium lachry- marum ; and, on various occasions under my own observation, ectropium has taken place. Treatment.—In every case of epiphora, it is necessary to make a very rigid investiga- tion before any plan of general treatment is suggested ; for it may happen that the removal of a foreign body, or small wart or fungoid growth from the conjunctiva, the extraction of an eye-lash, or some equally trivial pro- ceeding may be alone sufficient to accomplish a cure. Again, in every instance where the affection is conjoined with and produced by some disease of the eye-lids or inflammation of the eyeball, the treatment of the epiphora, resolves itself into the management of the more important malady. There are states of epiphora, (and they occur most frequently in children) dependent on derangement of the stomach and bowels, the presence of worms