195 ANATOMY, MORBID. world, insular and continental. The practice of distorting and crippling the ladies’ feet in China by means of early-applied and forcible compression, is another well-known instance of distortion of this kind. We may find in- stances equally atrocious without looking be- yond the civilized countries of Europe. Even in some of these the form of the head is often injuriously,as well as disfiguringly distorted by the application of bandages. An excellent pamphlet on this subject has recently been published by Dr. Foville, who has not merely pointed out the perversions of form generally produced, but has also shown, from careful statistical inquiry, the serious influence ex- erted on the intellectual faculties in strongly disposing to epilepsy and insanity. There is, perhaps, no distortion of this kind which is more frequent, or more injurious and culpable, than that which is practised on the chests of females by tight lacing, employed with a view of producing a slender waist. The lower ribs, which should form the base of a cone, are so coerced as almost to form its apex, and in- stead of admitting- of the most extensive mo- tion they are rendered completely fixed, to the most serious interruption of respiration ; at the same time the diaphragm, and likewise the abdominal viscera, are deranged both in form and function. There are some morbid perversions of form, which, although existing from birth, may be ascribed to the influence of a modifying force applied to the distorted organ, rather than to any inherent vice in the nisus formativus of the part. Club feet, and other distortions of the limbs, may be regarded as of this class, and referred to causes which have acted upon the foetus in utero. The umbilical cord has been supposed by Geoffroy St. Hilaire to influence some of these distortions by preternatural shortness, or by malposition. Distortion of form sometimes takes place in consequence of the concurrence of a diminu- tion in the resisting power of a part in con- junction with the application of a modifying force applied to it. Although in this form of distortion a change of tissue is concerned, it is necessary to notice it under this head, since the distortion often continues after the mor- bid condition in the texture of the part has ceased. The heads of children sometimes have such an unusual degree of pliancy that they lose their symmetry by their own weight, and if allowed to remain constantly or generally in one position, the loss of symme- try becomes permanent. I have observed the progress of this loss of symmetry in children labouring under acute affections of the head, in whom the natural pliability of this part appeared to be considerably increased, whilst the cause ot distortion occasioned by the child lying l°r the sake of ease in one position was probably increased by the weight of accumu- lated fluid in the ventricles of the brain. I have known this distortion almost entirely removed, although it had become very consi- derable, on the child’s recovering health and strength, which allowed the position of the head to be variously changed ; but we often meet with individuals, in whom a want of symmetry of this description has become striking and permanent. A distortion of this kind is very frequent in heads brought from the South Sea Islands, and I have been in- formed by W. S. Stuchbury, formerly natu- ralist to the South Pacific Pearl Company, that this want of symmetry was obviously occasioned by the mode of nursing infants, which allows the head to rest on the lateral and posterior part. There is another form of distortion of the head which is not very common, and does not appear to have been specially noticed, which wculd seem also referable to a transient mor- bid state. The upper and lateral part of the cranium on each side becomes flattened and depressed, so as to give the upper part of the head the form of a ridge, taking the direction of the sagittal suture. Without the assist- ance of any history to explain this peculiarity of form, it seems not unreasonable to regard it as the result of the absorption of a preter- natural quantity of fluid in the ventricles, taking place after the process of ossification had closed the fontenelles; so that the neces- sary diminution of the capacity of the skull could not be brought about at their expense. Some very serious and disfiguring distor- tions of form belong to the section now under consideration. Perhaps the most remarkable and important of these, is the distortion of the pelvis, occasioned by the combined in- fluence of the weight of the body, and the resistance of the heads of the thigh bones, when the individual is standing. When rick- ets, or other morbid conditions, have greatly reduced the resisting power of the bones, the distortion thus produced is so considerable and irremediable, as to render parturition im- possible without death to the mother or child, or to both. Great distortion of the leg bones is frequently brought about by a similar con- currence of circumstances, and many children have grown up in a state of unsightly defor- mity, in consequence of having been allowed, or even compelled, to stand or walk whilst their limbs were in a state of morbid weak- ness : the evil is in many cases rather aggra- vated than remedied by the application of irons with the view to counteract it. The fourth head comprises those deviations from the normal state which are the result of the inflammatory process. The most nume- rous and most important pathological con- ditions belong to this section. It will not be necessary on the present occasion to enter into the consideration of the knotty subject of the intimate nature of that condition which we designate by the term inflammation, we may rather refer to the article under that head, and in the mean time, we may take for granted, that the term is sufficiently under- stood to mark the distinction to be made be- tween the subjects falling under this head, and those which belong to other sections. O 2