CLUB-FOOT. 790 basis of the deformity, although the bones were quite passive ; second, a peculiarity in the capsular ligaments, which will hereafter be explained ; and, third, a deranged action of the muscles, which was the direct cause of all the distortion.” Reasoning upon the information contained in Captain Turner’s account of his embassy to Thibet, relative to the mode by which the withered limbs of religious enthusiasts, who have voluntarily abstained from the use of them for years, can be made to recover their natural powers, and applying Mr. Hunter’s principle for the restoration of debilitated muscles, Sheldrake proceeded as follows :— “ I placed,” he says, “ upon the leg, a plate (B, tig. 178,) of iron, tin, or other metal, as the Fig. 178. Fig. 178. Sheldrake's apparatus. circumstances of the case required ; this was lined, or otherwise guarded, so as to prevent its edges, or any other part from pressing upon any part of the leg. This contrivance, by whatever name it is called, was fixed to the legs by straps, bandages, or adhesive plaster, arranged in any manner that at the moment seemed to be necessary. Upon this plate I fixed a spring, whose length was equal to, and, when circumstances required it, longer than the greatest length of the leg and foot, the curve of which was directly contrary to the bend that the foot had taken, and the range of whose action was, if it had been ex- erted to its fullest extent, such that it would have drawn the foot at first to its natural posi- tion, and afterwards much beyond it. This perhaps may be understood by reference to the annexed figures, which represent the deformed foot and leg ; the curved line, a a, fig. 178, represents the curved spring. “ I assumed at first that the deformed state of the limb was produced by contraction, or retraction of all the flexor muscles of the leg, and, in this case, a small degree of contraction in the plantar aponeurosis ; by these means the action of the extensor muscles was first overcome, and afterwards lost. The leading idea that I adopted was to produce contriv- ances that should imitate the action of those muscles which had lost their power, and then, by applying them in a proper manner, over- come the too powerful contractile action of the flexors ; if this were done, and the loss of power in the extensors were but temporary, the natural action of the whole limb would be restored ; but, if the loss of power in the ex- tensors were permanent, after the foot was restored to its natural form, it would still be necessary to support it by artificial means, to prevent it from relapsing, and enable the pa- tient to walk, though in a manner that would necessarily be imperfect. “ This part of my process may be described in few words ; but to practise it with suc- cess requires great and unwearied attention for a long time. I have always proceeded in this manner : first, to ascertain the degree of rigidity that exists in the contracted limb, and the degree of force that must be used to counteract it. Having determined these two points, with as much accuracy as the circumstances will allow, and prepared my springs accordingly, I apply and fix the upper part of the instrument to the leg ; I then try, with my hands, how far I can raise the foot to- wards its natural position ; I hold it firmly in that position while I bend the end of the curved spring down towards the foot, and bind it, by passing straps of adhesive plaster round the spring and round the foot, so that, when left at liberty, the reaction of the spring will draw the foot upwards, towards its natural position, something more than I can draw it with my hands. The effect of this is, that the foot is drawn upwards, and the muscles which are subjected to this action, are strained to a certain extent; it is the nature of all muscles that are drawn to their full extent to endea- vour to retract; in doing so, those muscles upon which I operate are checked by the springs, totally, if the spring is too strong ; but if it is of a proper strength, it will be overcome by the reaction of the muscle. But. as no muscle can continue in one action long, and the elastic action of the spring is con- tinued, it follows, of course, that when the strength of the muscle gives way, the spring overcomes, and draws the muscle to itself, and, having yielded until its tendency to re- tract predominates, it again overcomes the action of the spring, and they thus proceed alternately till the cure is complete. I hope that I shall be understood, as this is the best explanation I can give: my meaning is, that in healthy muscular action, action and reaction are equal and opposite to each other; but in these distorted feet, one of the actions is first diminished till it is quite lost, and the foot becomes rigidly fixed. When the remedy is applied, and brought into action, the power of the extensors, which has been lost, is supplied 12