389 ARTERIES, ANOMALIES OF. the vertebral arteries, on their entrance into the cranium. The almost unceasing move- ments and change of position in these parts would compress and alter the form of the ar- tery, and disturb the equality of the circula- tion, did not the vessels by their serpentine course readily accommodate themselves to such changes. Besides this influence of a tortuous course in an artery, there is another important effect produced by it on the circu- lation, and of which there are many examples to be found in the lower animals as well as man. The tortuosities of the vertebral ar- teries not only permit the various movements of the head on the vertebral column, without the circulation within the head being dis- turbed, but it is evident also they will prevent the weight of the column of blood, when the head is bent downwards, causing any pressure on the brain. After refuting the opinion of those physiologists who suppose the curvature of the vertebral arteries to have the effect of diminishing the impetus of the blood in the brain, Bichat concludes,—“ Thus I am igno- rant of the connexion which exists between the curvature of the cerebral arteries and the circulation of the blood within the head.”— (Anatomie Descript.) In the lower animals there are many examples of arteries which have a tortuous course, in order to fulfil a similar purpose in the circulation of organs, which would be, more or less, subject to dis- turbance from the peculiar habits of the animal, if the pressure of a column of blood on such organs was not guarded against. There is a remarkable example of this in the sper- matic arteries of the bull, and in the carotid and vertebral arteries of graminivorous animals, whose heads are necessarily much in the de- pending posture. DILATATION OF ARTERIES. The arterial varix, is a diseased condition of the arteries, which is very different from a true aneurism. In the arterial varix, not only is the whole circumference of an artery preternaturally dilated, but the enlargement sometimes extends along the whole artery of a limb, as well as many of its ramifications, or the trunk of an artery, such as the tem- poral, or occipital, with numerous branches, becomes so dilated as to form a tumour com- posed of a congeries of dilated vessels. The artery, in some instances, enlarges very con- siderably, acquiring many times its natural diameter, preserving its cylindrical form, and being equally dilated in overy part. The tunics, in place of becoming thinner, as in simple dilatation, acquire additional thickness. In the accompanying fig. is represented an arterial varix in the arm of an aged female. The ulnar artery enlarged and tortuous, and the radial artery also enlarged and length- ened. Both these arteries are seen forming several circumvolutions on the palm of the hand,—which anastomose and form globular ancurismal swellings. Fig. 110. ANOMALIES OF ARTERIES. There are several deviations in the origin and course of the principal arteries, with which it is necessary that the surgeon should be familiarly acquainted. REGION OF THE HEAD. The facial or external maxillary artery is sometimes so small as scarcely to pass beyond the angle of the jaw; at other times it ex- tends to the forehead, and furnishes the la- chrymal, palpebral, and frontal arteries. In the latter case, the surgeon might fall into error, by placing a ligature on the wrong trunk, were the frontal artery to be wounded. The facial artery may also ascend much nearer to the mental symphysis than is usual. M. Ro- bert describes a peculiar disposition of the transversalis faciei, which deserves to be noticed in connexion with operations on the parotid duct; this vessel was double, one artery be- ing placed above, the other below the duct, and both communicated by two small trans- verse branches. The transverse artery of the face arises, in some rare cases, from the ex- ternal carotid, and crosses obliquely the masseter muscle to gain the angle of the mouth. The lingual artery is seldom the subject of operation, though it has sometimes been tied preparatory to extirpation of the tongue. It may arise by a common trunk with the superior thyroid, or more frequently