31 ABSCESS. skin, covering a deep seated abscess, at first shows no sympathy with it; as soon however as the pus begins to advance, all the elements in succession sympathize with it, till the skin, in its turn, changes colour, becomes blue or dusky red, adheres to the wall of the abscess, and ulcerates with it. Hereafter we shall see that this march of irritation is of great value in helping us to detect deep seated abs- cess, as well as in pointing out the existence of that degree of internal adhesion, without which the opening of many purulent collec- tions would be attended with danger of fatal effusion into other organs. The most formidable obstacle to the transfer of deep seated pus to the surface, is encount- ered in the fibrous tissues and inextensible aponeuroses which occur in its direct course. The vitality of these structures being too low to sustain the ulcerative process, the pus, when thus obstructed, burrows, and, as it were, dis- sects its way along the cellular tracks, some- times against its own weight, until by finding an opening it is enabled to resume its direct course outwards ; and thus are explained the flexuosities which are sometimes found in the course of an abscess. The progress of the matter, when opposed by a great extent of aponeurotic surface, is sometimes favoured by the openings it may offer for the transmission of vessels or nerves : it works its way through these openings, thus shortening its course to- wards the skin. In such cases, the matter is divided into a superficial and deep-seated col- lection, connected by the narrow opening in the fascia or aponeurosis. Instances of this bilocular condition of the abscess occur in in- flammations of the sheaths of tendons, in abs- cesses external to the pleura, passing through the intercostal spaces, and spreading under the skin. While the anterior or moving wall of the abscess is thus thinned and advanced, the posterior one remains stationary, or becomes thickened in a considerable degree. The compression and distension, however, may take the opposite direction, and tend to- wards the internal surfaces of the body. In this respect, the result depends on the resist- ance opposed by the surrounding parts to the extension of the purulent sac. There are nu- merous instances of abscess, formed not very distant from the external surface, which have, notwithstanding, been evacuated through some internal organ. Abscess, under the strong aponeurosis of the parotid, often bursts into the mouth ; abscess of the liver into the colon, the duodenum, and stomach ; abscess of the right iliac fossa into the caecum, or even into the bladder; abscess of the kidney into the colon, &c. It is related of the son of Petit that he died of an abscess between the ribs, which burst into the cavity of the pleura. Similar cases are on i record as affecting the peritoneum. The fact related of the son of Petit will appear the more curious when con- trasted 1 with others in which abscess of the substance of the lung has been known to pro- duce adhesion of the two folds of the pleura, and destruction or wasting of the intercostal muscles, the abscess pointing under the skin. A remarkable case of this nature presented itself lately to Mr. King, in which the pulmo- nary abscess burst through the nipple, evacua- ting a large quantity of matter. The general progress of purulent collections is, however, from within outwards, even when developed in contact with serous membranes, for, as it has been already observed, the sur- face of serous membranes is fortified by the organs which they envelope. Indeed the bursting of abscess into serous cavities is very rare; and this is easily explained, because, as soon as the irritation reaches the visceral por- tion of the serous membrane, it secretes plastic matter which pastes it to serous membrane lining the walls of the cavity, or to the serous envelope of some neighbouring hollow viscus : this plastic lymph is rapidly organised, and if the abscess continue to point internally, the inflammation, by agglutinating all the parts, obliterates that point of the cavity into which the pus would else penetrate ; the parts thus fused together are in their turn attacked by the ulcerative process : the mode by which the transfer of the matter is effected is still however the same, nature establishing con- tinuity of tissues where contiguity only had existed. We may repeat, however, that the tendency inwards is rare, and probably never occurs unless when favoured by some morbid condition of the sac, backed by the resist- ance in the opposite direction of strong fasciae and aponeurosis. It would, however, be an error to attribute the enlargement and exten- sion outwards of the purulent sac to the mechanical force of compression and disten- sion alone. Pus, shut up in bony cavities, di- lates and thins their walls before it softens and perforates them ; instances of this expan- sion are seen in the antrum, the frontal sin- uses, and even in the cranium itself; and it is doubtless the effect of some modification of their nutrition. When the pus arrives under the skin, the integument adhering to the wall of the abscess is gradually thinned to the tenuity of an epi- dermic pellicle, and the continuance of the precessional process of ulcerative absorption is manifested in the appearance of one or more phlyctenes, through which the matter soon oozes or bursts out. If the cavity of the abscess be small, and the spontaneous opening sufficient, it may be entirely evacuated at the moment, and the sides of the cavity may become agglutinated in twenty-four hours ; an effusion of organiza- ble lymph replacing instantaneously the puo- genic action. But this does not often occur. In general after an abscess is opened, a new series of phenomena arises ; and these, it is stated, are much modified by the admission or non-admission of air into the interior of the abscess. It is remarked when an abscess opens spon- taneously, that all the pus is seldom evacuated at once ; it comes away gradually, and in quan- tities barely sufficient to relieve the walls of the cavity from tension. This is the case in