222 ANEURISM. In one ease, where the limb had been ampu- tated some years after the femoral artery had been tied for a popliteal aneurism, an artery was found of apparently equal magnitude, and in the site of the original vessel. On examin- ing the inferior extremity of a subject in the dissecting-room, of which no previous history was known, about three inches of the superfi- cial femoral artery was obliterated, being con- verted into a ligamentous cord, in which there was no trace of a canal. The place ot this artery was chiefly supplied by one of the branches of the profunda, the others not being much increased. This branch was equal in size to the superficial femoral in the opposite limb, and in the lower part of the thigh had nearly the same course with the remains of the superficial femoral, excepting that it did not pass through the sheath fortned for the superficial femoral by the adductor longus and vastus internus muscles1. When the Hunterian operation for the cure of aneurism was first contemplated, it was un- dertaken on the principle that it would be followed by a complete stoppage of the circu- lation of the blood in the tumour. In some of the cases of popliteal aneurism, however, which were operated on by Hunter himself, and related by Home in the Transactions of the Society for the Improvement of Medical and Chirurgical Knowledge, it is stated that the tumour in the ham continued to pulsate for a considerable time after the ligature had been placed on the superficial femoral artery ; and the conclusion he drew from that fact was, “ that simply taking off the force of the circu- lation from the aneurismal artery is sufficient to effect a cure of the disease, or at least to put a stop to its progress, and to leave the parts in a situation from which the actions of the animal economy are capable of restoring them to their natural state.” Subsequent observations have shown, that the circulation in an aneurismal tumour may be con- tinued, after the trunk has been tied, in two ways ;—the one, in consequence of a branch or branches passing from that por- tion of the vessel situated be- tween the ligature and the heart continuing open and communi- cating by anastomosis with other trunks ; the other, by branches coming off from the artery at the distal side of the tumour, which branches anastomose with other trunks. But in whatever mode the circulation may have been kept up in the sac, the diminution in its force caused by tying the diseased trunk is sooner or later sufficient to in- sure the ultimate consolidation of the aneurismal tumour, except, as I have already stated, in a very few cases, wherein, in con- Fig. 65. On Aneurism, by James Wardrop. sequence of some unusual distribution of the arteries the current of blood in the aneurism continues to such a degree as not to permit either the coagulation of the blood, or the formation of a fibrinous concretion sufficient for that purpose. Fig. 65, presents an anomalous distribution of the. femoral artery; a is the profunda; b and c tiro branches, into which the femoral artery is divided ; on one of which a ligature was placed at d; e and f is the aneurismal tumour of the popliteal artery. Brasdor s mode of operating.—Those aneuris- mal swellings which were so situated that the knife of the surgeon could not reach the artery between the tumour and the heart, being still, however, considered incurable, Brasdor, a professor of the ancient school of surgery, in Paris, was led to propose a mode of operating which he conceived might be ap- plicable to some of those cases where the Hunterian operation was impracticable. The operation suggested by Brasdor was to place the ligature on an aneurismal artery upon the capillary, in place of the cardiac side of the tumour, in cases where no branch would intervene between the ligature and the sac. Dessault was in the habit of mentioning this proposal in his public lectures, and stated it as his opinion, that in a case of aneurism, where the position of the tumour was such as to render the Hunterian operation impracti- cable, Brasdor’s proposal might be worthy of trial. But neither this justly celebrated sur- geon, nor Brasdor himself, ever embraced an opportunity of performing it; and it was Deschamps, their contemporary, who first executed this new operation, though it was undertaken by him under the most unfavour- able circumstances. “ A man sixty years of age had, in the supe- rior part of his thigh, an aneurism seventeen inches in circumference, and there was not above a finger’s breadth between the tumour and Poupart’s ligament. Deschamps pro- posed to put a ligature on the artery on the capillary side of the tumour, hoping that the stagnation of the blood would cause its coagu- lation. The operation was performed, but was tedious and difficult on account of the pulsations of the artery not being distin- guished. The progress of the tumour, which had been very marked immediately previous to the operation, increased so much after it, that upon the fourth day its rupture appeared at hand. It was then decided to adopt a second operation, and to tie the artery ac- cording to the ordinary method, notwithstand- ing all the considerations which had formerly prevented its being done. Compression was made against the pubes ; and alter opening the aneurismal sac, two ligatures were placed, one above and the other below the opening in the artery; the haemorrhage was very great during the operation, and the patient died in eight hours.” Sir Astley Cooper was the next who made trial of this operation of Brasdor’s, in a case of aneurism of the external iliac artery, which extended into the abdomen so high as to ren-