ANEURISM. 239 of the tumour; the pleura contained about a glassful of sanguineous serosity, but the left side contained more than the right; the left lung was healthy, the right covered with recent false membranes; it was slightly infiltrated, and the posterior portion of its middle and inferior lobes engorged, approaching to hepati- zation ; the heart greatly dilated, its parietes appeared rather thinner, and almost resembling two leaves of parchment; and its substance pale. The aorta was much dilated and thick- ened, presenting on its internal surface large red patches; in other parts the internal mem- brane presented true ulcerations, of which some corresponded to osseous patches, others to a white and firm substance. This alteration terminated at the diaphragm. Traces of it were found in the arteria innominata, which was much dilated, also to a small distance in the common carotid and in the right sub- clavian in a more advanced state, the calibre of which vessel was equal to that of the innomi- nata. The tumour rested on the first rib, the middle portion of which it had completely destroyed, the extremities of the bone project- ing into the interior of the sac and covered by a fibrinous coagulum.” “ With respect to the operation, it had been as successful as possible, and had surpassed every thing which could have been expected: every thing went on well for the first days, and it is probable that if this slight haemor- rhage had not inspired alarm, and rendered the venaesections necessary in a patient who had already been bled seven times previous to the operation, he would have been able to have borne up against the slight affection of the left lung and that of the pleurae ; further, it is even probable, that these lesions only super- vened during the latter period of the patient’s life, when the organization, deprived of all its powers, no longer possessed means of resist- ance.” “ This case is not then a failure (revers) for surgery ; nor can it be cited as unfavourable to the method of Mr. Wardrop. M. Dupuy- tren stated, and with reason, that considering the death as the effect of the lesions of the thoracic viscera, and not as the result of the operation, he should not abandon, on this ac- count, the method which he had employed, and which was the only one that could have been put in practice in such a case. He re- minded persons that Sir A. Cooper had ex- perienced the same failure the first and second time he placed a ligature on the carotid; that he himself lost the first patient in whom he employed the method of treatment for arti- ficial anus; and he concluded by assuring those present that, in a similar case, he should act in the same way as he had done in this Ligature.—Having considered the effects of artificially obstructing the passage of the blood through an aneurismal artery from placing a ligature on the vessel, on the cardiac or on the capillary side of the tumour, or on one 1 Archives Generates de Medccine. branch only of the diseased artery, a most im- portant inquiry, viz. the best mode of apply- ing the ligature under any of these circum- stances, still remains to be determined. Were it, indeed, practicable to apply a ligature on an aneurismal artery, so as to avoid all risk of consecutive haemorrhage, the operations em- ployed for the cure of external aneurism might be said to be perfect in all cases in which an operation would in other respects be advisable. Various methods have been employed for applying ligatures on aneurismal arteries. In the old operation, in which an incision was made into the sac, the cardiac, and distal ori- fices of the diseased vessel were secured in separate ligatures. But since other modes of operating have been adopted, and it has been found requisite to cut down upon an arterial trunk, at a distance from the aneurism, with a view to obstruct the flow of blood through the vessel at that point, different means have been employed for placing the ligature on the ves- sel, the chief object being to lessen the risk of consecutive or secondary haemorrhage. The most simple method of employing the ligature consists in tying a single thread round the artery with sufficient tightness not only to interrupt the flow of blood through it, but also to cut its internal coats, and compress its sides, at the point of ligation. Effects of its application.—When a liga- ture is thus applied on the trunk of an artery, a series of changes takes place, all which be- come necessary to secure the vessel from future haemorrhage ; and any of these changes, if not duly effected by the ligature, render the operation extremely hazardous and often fatal. The first effect produced by tying a thread tightly round an artery is to obstruct the transit of the blood through it. The circu- lation being thus arrested, that portion of blood, which is contained between the ligature and the first collateral branch on the cardiac side of the ligature, stagnates and forms a coag ulum. This clot serves the purpose of a temporary barrier, and the inflammation, arising at the lacerated ends of the internal tunics of the artery, is followed by the effusion of coagu- lating lymph or fibrine. An adhesion is thus produced between the opposite sides of the vessel at the point of ligation. The coagulum of red blood is gradually absorbed, and re- placed by a plug of concreted fibrine. Whilst this process is going on within the vessel, the ligature acting as an extraneous substance, and the noose having been drawn so tightly, as to destroy the vitality of the coats of the artery at the point of ligation, causes that part of the vessel to ulcerate, and thus allows the ligature to be separated. As soon as the ligature has come away, the wound of the parts, as well as the extremity of the artery, becomes covered with granulations, and ultimately the vessel is imbedded in a firm and condensed mass of cellular tissue. The noose of the ligature may be either drawn so tight as only to bring the opposite