ANGE10LEUCITIS. 292 titioner is easily imposed upon on the score of the efficacy of the means employed. It has been treated, therefore, variously by ab- stractions of blood, emollients, blisters, multi- plied incisions, mercurial, or ioduretted fric- tions, compression, purgatives, &c. Expe- rience, however, has convinced me that these different resources may be all, either useful or insufficient; and that, in order to determine the value of each cf them in particular, we must first learn to distinguish angeioleucitis from every other form of inflammation. 1°. General bleeding, which is proper in the commencement when the patient is young and robust, and there is fever present, is use- less when the reaction is slight; and generally hurtful, when the period of suppuration has arrived, and at all times in the majority of aged persons, or of those whose constitutions are worn out. Leeches applied in consider- able numbers over the sites of the inflamma- tion, are either useful or hurtful under simi- lar circumstances. When applied towards the root of a limb, in the vicinity of the en- gorged ganglions, they will be often found sufficient, for this simple reason, that rest, regi- men, and simple external applications will cure angeioleucitis in a vast number of cases, and when attacked in the first stage. 2°. Emollient poultices applied over the solutions of continuity, and compresses of the same kind over the erysipelatous streaks, which are the only proper topical applications, while the patient is kept to the antiphlogistic plan, are of themselves but of little value when the disease is deep and extensive. Pur- gatives, in the beginning, aggravate the mis- chief ; they are useful only in the subsequent stages, and then merely as accessory means. 3°. I have tried blisters : when employed in the usual way, they are altogether incapable of extinguishing or stopping the inflammation. Their action, when applied over the promi- nent points of the indurated masses, is limited to the hastening, or determining the suppura- tion or the resolution, which till then seemed uncertain. When, on the other hand, I have employed them to an extent that would really seem monstrous, the effects produced have been almost miraculous. I am not afraid, for example, to envelope the whole limb, from the shoulder to the fingers, or from the groin to the knee, and from the knee to the toes. The general and local symptoms are, by this treatment, arrested so rapidly, that in a week or two, a resolution which could scarcely have been expected, is effected. This plan of treatment may justly be considered as heroic. 4°. It will serve no good purpose to riddle the part with long and deep incisions before suppuration is established. As soon however as the matter can be ascertained to exist, issue must be freely given to it at once : the object now is to get rid of the secreted matter, and not, as in phlegmonous erysipelas to prevent suppuration. Frictions with iodine are pro- per only towards the end, and where indura- tion is most to be dreaded. 5°. When the pain is very intense, lotions containing laudanum, or any other narcotic ingredient may be of use to palliate ; but they possess in reality no curative virtue. 6°. As yet, I have employed cold water only in two cases. The inflamed part was covered with compresses, which were main- tained by a bandage for two days. They were kept continually wet with water at the ordinary temperature, in the same way as I have been long in the habit of treating various wounds ; but the pain and swelling increased to such a degree, that 1 was compelled to give up its use. A little reflection will suffice to convince us that an inflammation which occupies so many distinct points, and which is scattered in patches, filaments, and cores, situated at various depths, can but very rarely be checked by topical refrigerants. We have therefore to examine the effects of compres- sion and mercurial inunctions. 7°. If the angeioleucitis be superficial, and ex- tend more in surface than depth, compression properly applied may effect a resolution in a few days, when it is possible to make the pressure over all the affected points, and pro- vided no suppuration has yet taken place. Under different circumstances, it will in gene- ral prove useless, and possibly aggravate the mischief. But there can be no doubt of its efficacy, on the other hand when the purulent collec- tions have been opened, and the tumefaction and inflammatory doughyness begin to assume some of the characters of oedema. 8°. While I was endeavouring to reconcile results so contradictory as those which different practitioners have said they had obtained by mercurial inunction in the treatment of ery- sipelas, it struck me, that my object would be realized by supposing that this mode of treat- ment, which is really valuable when applied to inflammation of the lymphatics, might be wholly useless in the inflammations of the skin and cellular tissue, strictly so called. On this point, the presumption has hitherto been but imperfectly sustained by facts. The tu- mefaction of the ganglions, the red streaks, and bands of the skin, and the pain of the part have constantly diminished from the first day, under the influence of the mercurial ointment. The same thing was remarked, as regarded the general tumefaction, and the other phe- nomena of inflammation, in three patients in whom the resolution appeared to have been produced by the remedy ; but in twelve other cases, the suppuration took place in the same manner as it occurs under the other modes of treatment which are so much extolled. Pos- sibly, however, I might have the right to con- clude, from the trials I have made of it, that mercurial inunction acts as a powerful discu- tient on the inflamed lymphatic vessels and ganglions, although it will have but little effect against the concomitant inflammation of the interposed tissues. I must acknowledge, however, that we must still refer to expe- rience on this point. I can, however, say