641 CANCER, TREATMENT OF. of preparing it: the plant is exposed to the vapours of vinegar or alcohol before expres- sion ; and the juice heated in a sand bath and evaporated to the ordinary consistence. Dr. Copland has prescribed the inspissated juice and powdered leaves in cases of internal scir- rhusin combination with the alkalies and tonics, and has always found them much more bene- ficial when thus associated ; the amount of benefit is not, however, stated. The conclu- sion drawn by Bayle from an impartial re- view of the statements of others and from his own experience is, that conium never cures cancerous disease, but occasionally retards its progress and alleviates pain. The general sense of the profession at the present day, spite of M. Recamier’s pleadings, is decidedly in favour of M. Bayle’s conclusion. M.M. Marjolin and Pauly are of opinion that its only action consists in destroying the digestive powers and producing headache. Aconitum, belladonna, hyoscyamus, laurus cerasus, stramonium possess similar claims to notice, but in a less degree. Since its first recommendation in the tenth or eleventh century by a monk named Theo- doric, arsenious acid has been extensively pre- scribed for carcinoma ; opinions as to its effi- cacy are divided. On the one hand appear the assertions of an experienced Swedish practitioner, Roennow, who after fifty years’ employment of it had succeeded in curing thirty cases of well-marked cancer : on the other, experiments on an extensive scale, con- ducted in Germany, France, and in this country, teach us to question its power in curing any form of the disease. Mr. Hill, however, states as the result of his experience, that this substance retards the progress of the complaint, and often prevents scirrhus from passing into the ulcerative stage’. Dr. Copland believes that when this medicine is cautiously employed, both internally and externally, in conjunction with narcotics and alkalies, or otherwise judiciously combined, Mr. Hill’s opinion in its favour is not much too highly coloured. Considerable hopes were excited some years since regarding the efficacy of iodine; but the fallacy of these hopes is now matter of notoriety. Dr. Copland, however, still re- commends iodine in small and repeated doses with potassa and conium or opium. He states that in two cases of “ reputed scirrhus ” which had withstood other means of cure for a long time, perfect recovery was obtained through a course of the hydriodate of potass : the statement is, however, qualified by an admis- sion which is exceedingly likely to be well founded, that they were not examples of true carcinoma. The iodurets of iron and of arsenic, but more especially the latter salt, have been forcibly eulogised by Dr. A. T. Thompson. The evi- dence in their favour is such as is supplied by the following case. “ A lady, setat. 46, had a ' Ed. Med. Surg. Journ. vol. vi. p. 58. VOL. I. tumour in each breast, accompanied with oc- casional severe darting pains : on one side the tumour was moveable, on the other fixed ; the arms had become cedematous, the complexion was sallow and anxious, there was constant fever and the health was rapidly sinking. . . . Ten or twelve leeches were applied at short intervals with poultices composed of poppy heads, digitalis and conium, and the ioduret of arsenic administered in one-eighth of a grain doses, with extract of conium every eight hours ; the dose of extract was gradually aug- mented from nine to sixty grains in the day. Three grains of iodide of iron in solution were taken between each dose of the pills ; the patient was strictly confined to a milk diet. This plan of treatment was pursued for upwards of eleven months, during which time the iodide of arsenic was carried up to doses of one-third of a grain.... the tumours gradually became softer and disappeared, the pains ceased, and the general health improved in a striking manner, until the patient was completely freed from disease'.” The number of times leeches were applied is not stated, and the treatment was altogether of too com- posite a character to allow of our forming a precise estimate of the value of the iodide of arsenic. We should, nevertheless, be strongly disposed to give this salt a trial under favour- able circumstances. Preparations of iron, originally recommended by Justamond and De Marre, have of late years been reintroduced to the notice of the profession by Mr. Carmichael. This eminent practitioner prefers the subphospate, but also exhibits the phosphate and bi-phosphate, car- bonate, and tartrate internally. The external use of these salts is combined with the inter- nal ; if the disease be in the ulcerated stage they are applied in the form of a paste made with water ; if not, a lotion, consisting of a strong solution of some one of them, is kept constantly applied to the part. The ammo- niuret of iron received the especial recom- mendation of Denman2. With respect to the use of mercurial prepa- rations, Mr. Burns remarks that no fact is more clearly ascertained than that mercury always exasperates the disease, especially after ulceration. Of the truth oft his statement, if applied to large doses of the mineral, especially when exhibited with a view to affecting the gums, no doubt can be entertained. Sir A. Cooper, however, employs it as an alterative in the form of Plummer’s pills. Strange to say, in France, where calomel is so sparingly em- ployed, the exhibition of this salt in combina- tion with conium has been strongly recom- mended by M. M. Gama and Begin. These practitioners commencing by very minute doses gradually increase the quantity until salivation, or a state of continued purgation is established. There are few medicines, ac- ' Lancet, Oct. 27, 1838, and Crane, Lancet, Aug. 31, 1839. 2 Observations on the cure of Cancer, p. 77. T T