BANDAGE. 457 to its application. Some few of M. Mayor’s bandages will be introduced in illustration of his principle. Rollers for ordinary purposes are bands of moderately fine calico, torn from a piece of the entire length required, as they must be free from joining, seam, or selvage, and rolled up into one or two heads. Unbleached calico will generally be found superior to the bleached, as it is softer and more supple. A cotton stuff of the texture of a thin stock- ing is woven expressly for rollers, and sold under the name of Churton’s stocking ban- dage. It is more elastic than calico, and makes an excellent bandage for cases of ana- sarca, varicose veins, and chronic enlarge- ments of the joints requiring support. Flannel rollers are sometimes employed, and on ac- count of their warmth are well adapted to similar affections in elderly persons. The French surgeons object to calico, that it is too soft and yielding to afford a firm support, and prefer rollers made of linen. Figs. 125 and 126 are single and double- headed rollers; their length and breadth is varied according to circumstances. The man- ner of rolling them up is a point deserving at- tention, as with a firm and compact head, the roller can be applied much more effectively. The terms head and tail of a roller are often used in a confused manner, and render the description of a bandage obscure. French writers distinguish the ends of a roller as its initial and terminal extremities. Compresses are portions of lint or linen folded in square, oblong, and other forms, of various sizes and thickness ; they are employed to give solidity to a bandage, fill up inequali- ties of the soft parts beneath it, approximate the edges of deep wounds, prevent the accu- mulation of pus in the course of sinuses, com- press the trunks of wounded arteries, &c. The square compress, divided from the corners towards the centre, is called the Mal- tese cross (Fig. 127); it was formerly used Fig. 127. Fig. 128. for confining dressings to the ends of the fingers and toes, the penis, and to the stumps of amputated limbs, a practice now obso- lete ; but dressings cut in the same fashion embrace these extremities very conveniently. Oblong compresses are sometimes split at one or both extremities to answer particular ob- jects, and are distinguished by the names of the single and double split-cloth or compress. The graduated compress (Fig. 128), is a va- riety of the oblong, and is made in the follow- ing manner ; one border of a square piece of linen is folded over to produce a narrow plait, this plait is folded back upon the linen to form a second, somewhat broader than the first, and so on with each successive plait, until the square is reduced to an oblong compress, of considerable thickness along its middle line, and becoming gradually thinner towards each border. The graduation may be made to as- cend from one side to the other, so as to retain the greatest thickness of the compress at the border where the plaits commence. 1. Bandages for general uses.—The sim- plest kind of bandage consists of the circular turns of a single-headed roller, each over- lapping the other, and serves to confine dressings to the head and trunk. The spiral bandage.—The next in point of simplicity is the spiral, of which two varieties are described, the creeping spiral {spiral rampant of the French), and the spiral with reverses {spiral demi-couvert). The former (Fig. 129), is no- thing more than the spiral circumvolutions of a single-headed roller, the turns barely touching each other. It is used as a confining bandage to the extremities. The spiral with reverses (Fig. 130), fulfils a greater number of inten- tions than any other form of bandage, being used as a confining, compressing, supporting, and uniting bandage. The description of its application to the leg will answer equally well for the upper extremity. The initial extre-