ADHESION. 57 portion of omentum. The deposition of the coagulable lymph may be so thick between the sac and the protruded intestine, that, on arriving upon it, he may mistake it for the omentum ; or he may suppose that he has not yet arrived at the sac, and may wound the intestine. The principal circumstances connected with these adhesions, together with the indications they suggest, will be considered in the article Hernia, to which the reader is referred. The adhesions of the pericardium are next in the order of frequency : their production is regulated by the same vital powers as in other membranes of the same class, but they are formed under the influence, and of course modified by the unceasing motion of the heart. They demand no particular notice in a surgi- cal point of view. This last observation ap- plies also to the adhesions of the arachnoid. They are not frequent. Adhesions of the tunica vaginalis.—The pro- duction of adhesion in the sides of the tunica vaginalis, by inducing inflammation as a cure for hydrocele, is a good instance of the cura- tive effects of adhesion. This excitement of the walls of the serous cavity may be induced in various ways,—by inflammation of the tes- ticle itself, by blows, a blister, the shock of an emetic, &c., or after the evacuation of the serum accumulated in hydrocele, by the in- jection of irritating fluids, &c. The tunica vaginalis, originally a prolongation from the peritoneum prepared for the descent of the testicle, is only cut off from that cavity by the process of adhesion. The communication is in general obliterated as soon as the testicle descends ; if it should persist after this pe- riod, some portion of intestine descends also, forming what is called a congenital hernia. Adhesions of synovial membranes.—Injuries in the neighbourhood of joints, sprains, frac- tures, aneurisms, dislocations with much con- tusion, greatly tend to inflame the synovial membrane, and adhesions followed by an an- chylosed joint sometimes take place. The long continued immobility which is required to restore a fractured limb has produced the same effects. According to Sir B. Brodie1, the usual con- sequences of inflammation in the synovial mem- branes are, 1st, A preternatural secretion of synovia ; 2d, An effusion of coagulable lymph into the cavity ; 3d, A thickening of the syno- vial membrane, with cellular bands adhering to its reflected folds. This eminent surgeon be- lieves that it is only violent and continued in- flammation which terminates in the effusion of coagulable lymph in joints. In proportion to the inflammation it has undergone, the synovial membrane has been found covered by a false membrane, or a soft kind of cellular tissue. Consequent to a frac- ture in an articulation, Dupuytren has seen the synovial membrane red, and presenting long membranous filaments of adhesion ex- tending across the cavity of the articulation. 1 On Joints. M. Cruveilhier found the cartilages, synovial membrane, and capsule of the hip joint trans- formed into a dense cellular tissue of a very red colour. The articular synovial membrane is rarely the seat of adhesions. “ True anchylosis of moveable joints,” says Cruveilhier, “ does not so readily happen as has been supposed. I know of but three species of this disease. 1st, The articular surfaces are not implicated, but the joint is held immovable by an osseous ring, or by the less regular deposition of osseous mat- ter around the joint. 2nd, The articular sur- faces are absorbed, and the anchylosis is main- tained by an interposed fibrous lamella. 3rd, The cartilages are absorbed, and the adhesion is effected by bony matter which is formed through the cartilages in a similar manner as occurs in the final junction of the epiphysis of long bones.” Adhesion of the synovial sheaths, on the other hand, is not of unfrequent occurrence. Inflammation but rarely occupies this neigh- bourhood, without their surfaces participating in it, and becoming cellular. The vesicular sy- novial membranes of the tendons are said to decrease in number in old age. Cellular trans- formation of sheaths is produced by old stand- ing ulcers situated near them. The intense in- flammation of panaris often agglutinates the tendons of the fingers to their sheaths. The curious retraction of the fingers is caused by an altered condition of the sheaths and flexor tendons, strong and dense adhe- sions having glued them together. Adhesions of serous cysts.—The treatment of accidental cysts, upon the plan employed to obliterate the tunica vaginalis, has been suc- cessfully adopted in many instances, and is preferable, when circumstances permit, to simple evacuation by puncture, to excision, or to the seton. Cysts of small size, and in situations where they are of easy access, are perhaps best treated in this way. Experience has even shown that cysts of the ovaries and of the liver may be obliterated by irritating injections. When cysts are of small size, evacuation with a needle and pressure will be often sufficient to produce adhesion. Adhesions of the skin.—These can never oc- cur, until the inorganic layer covering the in- tegument is removed. But when the epiderm is removed as by burns or abrasion, adhesion readily takes place between different portions of the skin, provided they be kept in contact. (See Cicatrix, Burns.) Adhesions in blood-vessels.—In irritation of arteries and veins the same disposition to con- tract adhesion is observable. The same may be said of the veins ; but they are obliterated more slowly than the arteries, and there is a marked difference in the mode in which inflammation affects these two orders of vessels. When an artery inflames, the blood in it coagulates, and becomes organized ; in a vein adhesion may take place, to be subsequently destroyed by suppuration. Whatever causes compression on a vessel, and arrests the course of the cir- culation through it, may produce its oblitera-