853 CRYSTALLINE BODY. Fig. 188. the application of this instrument, which scarcely requires description. The crotchet branch is to be most carefully adjusted some distance above the brim of the pelvis, and being firmly fixed on some part of the child’s body, the guard is to be passed opposite to it, and the locking of the blades being adjusted, the handles are to be firmly connected by a tape ; the extraction is then to be most carefully commenced, and continued in the axis of the pelvis. As we remarked with re- gard to the guarded crotchet, further expe- rience is required to prove the value of this body instrument. It is very rarely that the common crotchet will not answer every pur- pose, provided it be carefully used in a suit- able case. For further information on the subject, see Cephalotomy and Osteotomist, and for the cases in which embryotomy operations may be required, the reader is referred to the article Parturition. (Thomas Spencer Wells.) CRYSTALLINE BODY. The crystal- line body, comprehending both lens and cap- sule, has most important connexions with all the internal parts of the eye. Lying in the fossa which the vitreous body presents in front, the crystalline is closely adherent by the posterior wall of its capsule to the hyaloid which lines that fossa. The anterior wall of its capsule is invested by the membrane of the posterior chamber of the aqueous humour, which is reflected upon it from the ciliary processes. Around the circumference of the crystalline is the canal of Petit and the zonula ciliaris ; the folds composing the latter are dovetailed with the ciliary processes. The united folds of the ciliary zone and ciliary processes overlap the edge of the crystalline in front, but do not adhere to it, there being betwixt its circumference and the anterior edge of the ciliary zone, a ring of transparent hyaloid, called zonula lucida, broader on the temporal than on the nasal side. Extending from the ciliary body, all round, to the cir- cumference of the crystalline, is the corona of minute elastic filaments called orbiculus capsulo- ciliaris. Furthermore, the close proximity of the pupillary margin of the iris to the crystal- line is not to be forgotten, as adhesions from effused lymph very frequently take place be- tween the two. Vessels of the crystalline body.—A branch of the central artery of the retina runs through the vitreous body, in what is called the hya- loid canal, to the posterior wall of the capsule, on which it ramifies. The branches radiate to the circumference of the crystalline, where they join branches from the ciliary zone, and a vascular net-w'ork is formed from which branches proceed to the anterior wall of the capsule, ramifying towards the centre, and at the same time anastomosing with each other by arches. Except in the foetal state, and in disease, the vessels just described are invisi- ble. From the above it will be seen that the crystalline has connexions with the interior parts of the eye, analogous to what the cor- nea has with the exterior parts ; and from this it may be inferred, that, on the one hand, the crystalline must be equally exposed to the spread of disease ; and that, on the other, should it happen to be the primary seat of dis- ease, the surrounding parts cannot fail being more or less implicated. Injuries of the Crystalline Body.—The crys- talline body is liable to suffer from two kinds of injuries. It may be directly wounded by a foreign body or instrument which has pene- trated the eyeball, or it may have its con- nexions so broken up in consequence of a blow upon the eye or its neighbourhood, that dislocation takes place either immediately or consecutively. Dr. Mackenzie mentions, that he has repeatedly seen grains of gunpowder propelled through the cornea into the lens, so as to produce cataract. (a.) Wounds.—Wounds of the crystalline body, even when simply punctured or incised, give rise, it may be said invariably, in the hu- man eye 1 to lenticular opacity, and often to more or less capsular opacity in the seat of the wound. After a wound of the capsule, the ' Experiments which have been made on certain of the lower animals, dogs for instance, show that wounds of the crystalline body are not, in them, so readily fol- lowed by opacity.