269 FRACTURE. isolated spieulae in soft callus. This has often been asserted as a fact ; but l have never heard that any one has even attempted to demonstrate its reality, with a just notion of the objections and difficulties that the case involves. Every museum contains the alleged proofs of these facts ; but I may safely ask, where is the collection, in which we may find a series of specimens to establish the spontaneous and independent commencement of bony callus,— the successive stages of irregular or accidental callus ? The formation of all bones, by initia- tive points of ossification, follows peculiar laws ; and it is not impossible that the same laws are to be seen in operation in other instances ; but the ordinary rule of repairing fracture is parallel to the growth and not to the commencement of bone ; it is bone upon bone, wherever increased nutrition or inflammation is excited. It is in this stage of the enquiry that I think it desirable to comment on certain mechanical changes, which fracture produces, in the state and relation of the periosteum of the parts concerned ; for these changes will appear to have remarkable influences on the form of the new bone. We may observe, that first, in cases of fis- sured bone the periosteum may remain undi- vided ; secondly, it may be seen merely fis- sured, or, perhaps, slightly torn in one or two parts ; thirdly, we may find in simple trans- verse fracture of a long bone, that the perios- teum is completely divided ; fourthly, we may find in a similar case various undivided slips, connecting the two main fragments, or link- ing smaller portions of bone with them. It may almost suffice to refer to the diagrams below for a demonstration of the principal directions which remaining bands must take in ordinary cases. Figs. 294. In these diagrams the dotted lines indicate various direc- tions, winch f racture with displacement may give to bands of periosteum, and they are most certainly the indications of the outlines of repairing bone when formed. No. 5 is drawn with the same view, but lines are introduced to explain the appearance of two 3 sides. ATo. 6 represents denuded points of bone, out of the influence of periosteum ; and thus they usually remain to die, or rather to waste. Admitting that these drawings are exaggerations, I may assure the enquirer that he may find abundant representatives of Nos. f, 4, 5, 6, 7, and 8, in repaired fractures.