CANCER, PHYSIOLOGY OF. 608 and extend laterally in, their interior. Nor do we deny the possible conversion of coagu- lated blood into encephaloid ; we simply al- ledge that such transformation is as yet un- proved. Thirdly, published cases tend to prove the occasional production of carcinoma by the coats of the veins ; circumscribed tumours are sometimes found attached to the walls of these vessels by a simple or multiple pedicle (not unfrequently dilating the vein, as M. Cruveilhier observes, into an ovoid ampulla simulating a cyst). These tumours are evidently in organized connexion with the vascular tunics—a fact arguing in its favour, though it by no means demonstrates their production thereby1. It may, we think, be fairly inferred from facts hitherto ascertained, that the primary seat of carcinoma is the intervascular inter- stices of all the organized tissues and paren- chymata, in rare instances possibly free serous surfaces and the interior of the veins. Wher- ever there are capillary vessels composing a nutritive or secretive apparatus, cancerous matter may be produced ; that it may be sometimes retained in these may reasonably be supposed, but there is at present no proof of the fact. Secondly, the proximate cause of the formation consists in a perversion of the acts of nutrition or secretion. But though we believe it unnecessary for the comprehen- sion of cancerous development to admit that the material element of the disease circulates with the blood previously to its local mani- festation—that a cancerous vitiation of that fluid is the first step in the train of morbid changes—we do not mean to affirm that the blood possesses its normal constitution even at that period ; and further we are persuaded that when secondary cancerous impregnation occurs, it must exercise a material influence on the activity and increase of local growths. Both these questions, which refer to the doctrines of diathesis and secondary forma- tion, will be attended to elsewhere. If doubt and uncertainty still hang over the points just considered, pathologists are yet more ignorant respecting the nature, and indeed the existence or non-existence, of a local structural change in the elementary con- stituents of the tissues preceding the deposi- tion of cancerous matter. The German in- quirers have not applied the microscope to this fundamental part of the subject; and no 1 In M. Cruveilhier’s twenty-ninth Fasciculus is the engraving of a large tabulated polypiform en- cephaloid mass found attached to the wall of the right auricle, almost completely filling that cavity and extending into the right ventricle and both vena; cavae. The continuance of life under such circum- stances is only explicable by supposing the growth of the tumour to have been extremely slow. No sus- picion arose during life of an affection of the circula- ting organs being in existence. The patient died suddenly after a hearty meal, in all probability from some derangement of the relative position of the dis- eased mass, the valves and orifices of the organ. The parotid glands were the only other organs affected with the disease. authorized statements have yet appeared from the observer in this country, who has long been employed in its investigation. (6.) Growth.—Like all bodies possessed of the power of adding to their own develop- ment, carcinomatous tumours grow by intus- susception ; they abstract from the blood ma- terials for conversion into their proper sub- stance, and are the seat of circulation, absorp- tion, and nutrition. We have already re- ferred to the vessels of these growths, to the difficulty of detecting them in scirrhus and their abundance in encephaloid. Some of these vessels are manifestly in communication with those of the surrounding tissues ; while the relation of others in this respect is yet matter of uncertainty. The mode of forma- tion of the latter appears traceable with the naked eye as follows. In one point of a tu- mour may be seen some minute unconnected points of blood ; at another a number of such points united in linear juxtaposition, so as to form a streak of blood uninclosed in any dis- tinct vessel; elsewhere a vascular investment is found for a similar streak ; further on, a similar piece of delicate tube divides at each extremity into a number of tapering ramifica- tions, assuming a stellate arrangement. So far as these facts go, they argue in favour of the opinion of Cruveilhier, Carswell, and others who regard the vessels in question as “ perfectly independent of the general circu- lation,” and formed de novo in the morbid matter, in the same manner as the vascular tissue of the ovum. But as this opinion is one which clashes with received physiological notions, and as the appearances referred to are of gross character, while the earliest phe- nomena of formation require the application of the microscope, it cannot be embraced without hesitation. Dr. Hodgkin and others regard the notion of new-formed vessels as totally inadmissible. See Pseudo-Membrane. Be this as it may, the tubes in question (in which Lobstein affirms that he saw the circu- lation going forward with the help of a com- mon lens) constitute what Dr. Carswell terms the proper circulating system of encephaloid in contradistinction to the manifest offsets from the surrounding arteries, which form the collateral supply. The predominance of either of these systems appears to vary with the consistence of the growth ; the collateral is most abundant while the tissue is firm and re- sisting, the proper under the contrary cir- cumstances. Different opinions are professed respecting the origin of the containing element or septa of carcinoma. While some maintain that it is formed of the natural cellular tissue of the part in a state of hypertrophy and induration, the majority of writers consider it a new for- mation, as proper to carcinoma as the con- tained matter. Dr. Carswell remarks in con- futation of the former opinion, that cellular membrane in a state of acknowledged hyper- trophy, such as is met with in elephantiasis Arabum, has no tendency to terminate in