509 BRONCHOTOMY. but says, “ Est autem hoc remedium pericu- losum, et ideo non licet eo uti, nisi in deplo- ratissimo casu.” Not only this idea, however, but the very words are borrowed. In 1617 the Opera Chirurgica of Fabricius ab Aquapendente were published at Padua. In his forty-fourth chapter, after quoting Rha- zes, Avicenna, Avenzoar, and Hali Abbas, he says the surgeons of his time feared to under- take the operation, “ Et ego qnoque eorum vestigia secutus, nunquam administravi.” In 1620 Habicot published a small treatise, entitled, “ Question Chirurgicale par laquelle il est demontre que le Chirurgien doit assure- ment practiquer l’operation de la Bronchoto- mie, vulgaireinent dicte Laryngotomie, ou perforation de la flute ou tuyau du poulmon.” He gives some interesting cases, which will be hereafter referred to. In 1617 Joannes Agricola recommended a division of the cartilaginous rings of the tra- chea, when there was so much swelling from quinsy that neither food nor air could pass. Rodericus a Fonseca, in his Consultationes Medicae, published at Venice in 1628, after alluding to some species of quinsy, and their treatment, refers to bronchotorny, and re- marks, “ Est enim remedium unicum, ad quod confugiendum e3t in his casibus, nec periculo- sum ut apparet.” The cp. 81. cent. 1. of the “ Epistolarum Medicinalium cent, prima et secunda,” by Bar- tholinus, a Danish physician, is from Rene Moreau, dated 1646. The writer states that he performed bronchotorny twice, and perma- nent recovery followed. Spigelius is also stated by Bartholinus to have favoured the operation. The celebrated Armamentarium Chirurgi- cum of Scultetus was published at Ulm in 1655. In this work the operation is described very fully, and illustrated by plates. Lam- zwerde, in his commentary on this book, says, “ Aspera arteria in affectibus laryngis qui suffo- eationem minantur, chirurgo anatomise non ignaro tutissime perforatur.” About this time the operation was warmly advocated in Italy by Severinus of Naples ; successful cases were also recorded by Ser- rier, Muys, and Dekkers. A work by Purrmann, translated from High Dutch, was published in London in 1706, en- titled “ Chirurgica Curiosa ; or, the newest and most curious Observations and Operations in the whole Art of Chirurgery.” In this work Purrmann says, that he himself performed bronchotorny in a case where there was great swelling and inflammation about the throat, threatening sudden suffocation, the voice and intellectual faculties being gone. Immediate relief followed. The operation is strongly recommended, and cases given in Garengeot’s Traite des Operations de Chirurgie, published in Paris in 1720. The next step was the publication of De- tharding’s “ Dissertatio de methodo subveni- endi submersis per laryngotomiara,” in 1714. In the volume of the Philosophical Trans- actions for 1736, is a letter from Dr. Martin, narrating a case in which on account of sud- den and violent symptoms depending on acute disease about the glottis, bronchotorny was performed at St. Andrew’s with complete success. In the same letter it is stated that Mr. Baxter, of Cupar in Fife, and Dr. Oliphant of Gask, Perthshire, had also ope- rated with success. In Heister’s Institutiones Chirurgicae, pub- lished in 1739, is a chapter entitled, “ De Bronchotomia, Laryngotomia, seu Tracheo- tomia,” in which he states that the operation has been performed on account of inflamma- tion : to remove foreign bodies : and for the recovery of drowned persons. He regards the space between the second and third rings of the trachea as the best situation to operate for the removal of foreign bodies. He de- scribes the operation in this way, and also when rendered necessary by angina, both by incision and with a trocar, and illustrates it by plates. He shows expressly the danger of delaying too long, and refers to the work of Detharding. In 1746 the celebrated memoir of Louis was published in the memoirs of the French Royal Academy of Surgery ; and since that time cases and essays multiply upon us. We find them in Van Swieten’s Commentaries, 1752 ; Journal de Medecine, Dec. 1765, and July, 1772 ; in several volumes of our own Medico-Chirurgical Transactions, and other periodicals. We have then the excellent paper of Mr. Lawrence, in the sixth volume of the Medico-Chirurgical Transactions, and Mr. Porter’s well-known work written expressly on this subject. I have thus endeavoured to give a sketch of the progress of opinion with regard to this operation, from the earliest ages of surgery to our own times, and shall now proceed to con- sider the propriety of its performance under the subjoined heads. I. When foreign bodies have entered the windpipe. II. In acute diseases of the windpipe— idiopathic—traumatic—and functional. III. In chronic diseases of the windpipe. IV. In cases where tumours in the larynx itself, or in the neighbourhood, obstruct the passage of air, either mechanically, or by ex- citing spasm of the glottis. V. In injuries and wounds of the throat, and their consequences. VI. In cases of suspended animation. I. When foreign bodies have entered the windpipe. If there be any case where the propriety, or absolute necessity of the performance of bronchotorny is undoubted, it is when a foreign body has entered the air tube. The only ob- jections that can be advanced are, the chance of the expulsion of the body by expectoration —the fact that persons have lived for many years, the body remaining—and Desault’s