344 FRACTURE. In the treatment it is practicable, and, indeed, natural, to relax all the muscles which tend to produce displacement; and accordingly we find various examples of fracture in museums, lepaired without material deformity. Some of these, however, have been only fissures and imperfect fractures. It would seem that the angle may be so detached as to be reunited by ligament only, which is an event to be carefully guarded against. To cause coaptation, the fracture being attended with displacement, we should endeavour to make the body of the scapula approach the broken portion ; and thus con- fine the parts, the elbow being flexed and bound to the side, while the fore-arm is sup- ported by a sling, and the angle of the scapula directed to its place by compresses and a roller. The fractures of the body of the scapula are said to be more generally transverse than vertical. Crepitus is mostly observable ; and in fractures involving the solid spine of the bone, there is proportionate contusion, and generally a characteristic irregularity. Con- finement of the arm to the side, by a few turns of a roller, acting also as a support to the elbow, is sufficient bandaging. Sabre wounds of this bone, Dr. Hennen observes, present no difficulties during or after reparation, provided the parts be preserved fi om motion during treatment. Occasionally all kinds of injury may rather cause Assuring of the bone than separation of its parts. The coracoid process may be broken by a direct blow, and being separated from the scapula, it is drawn forward and downward by the united actions of the pectoralis minor, coi aco-brachialis, and short head of the biceps. The fragment is, for the most part, easily dis- coverable. By bending the arm forward on the breast, the deranging muscles are to be relaxed ; and another object to be secured is, fiy laying the patient on pillows, to keep the shoulder downward and forward, towards the fractured process. Gentle compression, by means of a pad and bandage, may assist to replace the process. There seems to be no better prospect than that of ligamentous union ; but it is desirable that this kind of reparation should be efficient; that is, that the ligament should be strong and short. The new organization which fills up the cell of the fracture, will, in the main, be equal to the degree of separation; and the conversion of this into ligament in a healthy person, will be speedily effected ; but if the parts be too early put on the stretch, the tissue will become finally elongated. The simple tension of the muscles excites nutri- tion, until the new product is able to resist more extension, and so on progressively ; but if the ligament be once overstretched, nature has not set means of shortening it. Very crippled motion, atrophy of the mus- cles, and even paralysis of the arm occasion- ally follow fractures about the shoulder-joint ; and this is, of course, a solid reason for gentle and careful treatment, as well as for giving a cautious prognosis. Whenever the contusion is great, the safety of all the tissues requires active depletion ; and it is better rather to exceed the means of arresting inflammation, than to suffer disorganization to be effected. Fracture of the neck of the scapula.—This accident has, I think, been heretofore de- scribed only theoretically. I have never seen nor heard of a dissected specimen, in proof of its occurrence, as a simple accident; and, excepting by the aid of a chisel and mallet, I conceive it would be very difficult to produce the division of the neck of the scapula even in the dead body. The nearest approach to this imaginary injury, that I have seen, was in the case of a general crush of the body of the scapula; where, a line of fracture sepa- rated the notch and nock of the bone from the broken body, so that even here, it might be said, the neck itself was the only part that had escaped. For the particulars of this case the reader is indebted to the zeal of Mr. Cock and Mr. Hilton, my able colleagues in the school of Guy’s Hospital, who went out of town to make the examination. A moderately tall man, of spare habits, aged 44, and apparently healthy, being in a state of intoxication, was thrown out of a cart ; and he seems to have fallen on the back part of his head, and also on the right shoulder. His most serious injuries were of the head. A transverse fracture of the scapula was dis- covered by Mr. Cock with some difficulty. Crepitus was not felt on pressing its processes and rotating the humerus; but the hand on the inferior angle of the scapula detected grating. The roundness of the shoulder was not lost, but there was an incomplete disloca- tion of the outer end of the clavicle upwards. The figure of 8 bandage was applied with pads in the axillae. He survived only eight days. The coraco-clavicular ligaments were not torn through. Fig. 317. Fig. 317, represents the glenoid cavity of the scapula, with the coracoid process, the notch, and parts of the upper and lower spinous fossa, as detached by a com- plicated fracture.