441 ASTRINGENTS. twitchings of the muscles, which at first pre- vailed, altogether ceased. Sensibility was ex- tinct, the countenance pale, the eyelids closed, the eyes prominent and rolling, the tongue swollen and projected from the mouth, and the jaw locked upon it, whilst a copious dis- charge of saliva issued from the corners of the mouth. The window of the room, in which there was no fire, was left open, and the external temperature was about 50° Fah- renheit. On passing a galvanic shock through the chest, the patient drew his breath deeply. The muscles of the abdomen were seen to | reach, though feebly, while those of the face ! were slightly convulsed, and the eyelids raised. The respiratory motions became more powerful at each successive application of the j galvanic current, and the arterial pulse was i gradually developed. After a certain interval, a bladder of oxy- gen gas was respired by the patient. As the heat of the body was not diminished, water was dashed on the head and face, and the respiratory muscles were evidently stimulated by this application. The inhalation of oxygen was repeated, and the galvanic shocks were applied alternately to the head and chest every half-hour for some time, until it seemed that the excitement produced by them, was followed by a corresponding depression, and they were therefore discontinued. Ammonia was rubbed on the temples and chest, and its vapour inhaled ; w7hich latter application ren- dered him uneasy, and excited coughing. These and other means were continued, until a warm perspiration broke forth, and his con- dition rapidly improved, In the afternoon, the pulse had risen to 120, and was strong, but, as the stupor had diminished, a bleeding ! which had been proposed was postponed. In the night, however, the bandage came away from the arm, and he lost nearly a pound of blood, and it appeared probable, for some time, that he would not be able to survive the effects of this haemorrhage ; but during the night he recovered, and on the following day was able to speak, though very imperfectly. For two days, the left side of the face ap- peared paralysed, and his mind considerably ! disordered. He recollected nothing from the time that he lay dow'n, when he remembered j having seen the charcoal burning brightly, till the second or third day after the accident. The appearances after death from this cause J arc very various. (Vide Dr. Bird’s paper in Medical Gazette, March 10.) Treatment.—The patient should be imme- diately withdrawn from the deleterious atmo- i sphere, and his clothes removed, in order that the pure air may come in contact freely with his skin. Cold affusion over the head and I chest maybe employed, the wraterbeing dashed j upon the face and chest. If, however, there | be great loss of heat, this remedy may be ab- ! stained from. Frictions over the chest should [ be persevered in, and ammonia be held to the i nostrils. Insufflation and the other means j recommended under the head of general treat- ment, are also demanded. Bleeding may sometimes be necessary, but it should be re- sorted to with much caution, as the instruc- tive case of Dr. Babington shows us, not only in our primary attempts to restore animation, but in our after treatment. We have had no opportunity of testing the application of Mr. Read’s instrument, for the removal of deleterious gases from the lungs, in an asphyxiated being ; but from the experi- ments which we witnessed Mr. Read perform upon himself, we are satisfied of its capability of exhausting these organs. Its application then in those cases of suspended animation, where a gas of the specific gravity of car- bonic acid, is in large quantities in the lungs, cannot but be desirable for the purpose of re- moving a portion of this deleterious agent before sending into these organs pure atmo- spheric air, or even oxygen itself. The other varieties of asphyxia, which arise from the adventitious membrane of croup, chronic laryngitis, abscess of the glottis, ab- scess of the tonsils suddenly bursting and pouring its contents into the larynx, foreign bodies in the larynx and oesophagus, and so on, will fall under consideration in the special articles devoted to these cases. Bibliography.—Kite, Essay on the Recovery of the Apparently Dead, 8vo. Lond. 1788. Goodwin, Tho Connection of Life with Respiration, 8vo. Lond. 1789. Coleman, A dissertation on Suspended Respiration, 8vo. Lond. 1791. Curry, On Apparent Death, 8vo. Lond. 1792. John Bell's Anatomy, original edition. Bichat, Sur la Vie et la Mort. Paris. 1805. Brodie, Sir B. Phil. Trans. 1812. White, A dissertation on Death and Suspended Animation, 8vo. Lond. 1819. Leroy, Recherches sur les Asphyxies, 8vo. Paris. 1829. I)e- vergie, Diet, de Med. et de Chir. Prat. art. Asphyxie. 1829. Copland, Diet, of Pract. Med. art. Asphyxy, 1832. Humane Society, Reports of. Roget, Cyclo- pedia of Pract. Med. art. Asphyxia, 1832. Kay, On Asphyxia, 8vo. Lond. 1834. Wilks, On the nature of Respiration, Edin. 1835. Bostuck, An elementary sys- tem of Physiology, 8vo. 1835. Alison, Cyclopedia of Anatomy and Phys. 1835. Grant, Outlines of Cotn- arative Anatomy, 8vo. 1836. Newport, Phil. Trans. 837. Houston, Dublin llosp. Reports. Cooper, Sir A. Guy’s Hospital Reports. Wardrop, On the Heart, 1st part, 8vo. Lond. 1838. Carpenter, Principles of General and Comparative Anatomy, 8vo. Lond. 1839. Edwards, Sur l’lnfluence des Agens Physiques, trans- lated by Drs. Hodgkin and Lister, 8vo. Lond. 1832. (Philip Bennett Lucas.') ASTRINGENTS, (derived from astringo, to bind,) a class of therapeutic agents which are distinguished by the property they pos- sess of exciting primarily the vital contrac- tility of the animal fibre, which, however, their prolonged use has ultimately a tendency to injure, by blunting the sensibility and aug- menting the density of the organic tissue. Their action is both general and local; the local appertains more exclusively to the pro- vince of surgery. Astringent local applications comprise vege- table substances whose peculiar characters depend on the tannin they contain, and cer- tain mineral products ; cold through the medium of cold air, water, and ice, is also regarded as an astringent