325 ANKYLOSIS. means of the gastrocnemii, tib. post., &e., she could straighten the foot upon the leg, and contract freely the anterior tibial muscle, and raise the foot; the peronei had also recovered their power. She suffered occasionally, du- ring the very severe cold weather, from pain in the ankle-joint, which for a short time caused her to walk rather lamely. Her gait continued to improve until four months after the operation, when she was walking about as well as a person who had never had any lameness. The second case is still more interesting, as the ankylosed, almost immovably rigid state of the ankle-joint had existed twenty years, and although the treatment was more em- barrassing than the preceding, through the greater destruction of soft and hard parts, and the consequent numerous adhesions in all directions, its complete success shows how valuable an improvement in the treatment of some cases of partial ankylosis we possess in the division of tendons. Sept. 4, 1837.— Miss , aged twenty- seven, informs me that when about seven years of age, she was attacked with some disease in her right leg, accompanied by numerous abscesses, ulcerations, fistula;, &c., the last of which closed twelve years ago. During the continuance of this protracted disease she was necessarily prevented from walking, so that on its subsiding it was found that the extended state which the foot as- sumes, owing to the superior power of the gastrocnemii, and other muscles on the back of the leg, overbalancing the anterior muscles when the influence of volition is not exert- ed,—a state in which the foot had remained so many years,—combined with the gradual contraction of the numerous cicatrices, had produced a permanent elevation of the heel, from the ground to the utmost possible ex- tent. At the present time she walks upon the extreme point of the sole of the foot, corresponding to the metatarso-digital articu- lations, where there exists the usual painful corn, which in such feet covers the cutis, wherever it is subjected to undue friction or pressure ; the heel is drawn upwards by the contracted muscles of the calf as much as five inches, which distance from the earth it retains even when the entire weight of the body is thrown upon the affected limb, or the patient strains to force it down ; so rigid, indeed, is the contraction, that no efforts which I can exercise to force up the toes, procure the least alteration in the form of the foot. There is no deformity of the foot itself beyond the fixed state of so-called extension, and a somewhat greater convexity of the arch of the foot than natural. All the muscles of the affected thigh and front of the leg are weaker than those of the opposite side ; those of the back and outside of the leg are bound down to the bones by ten or a dozen large indented cicatrices, some of them more than three inches in length. She can produce no voluntary motion by any action of the anterior muscles, through their being kept continually upon the stretch, nor by the posterior muscles, from some of them being firmly bound down in various parts to the bones, and from the remainder being already contracted to their fullest extent. The entire extremity, owing to the fixed straight position of the foot, is rendered longer than that of the opposite side, although the tibia and fibula, being about an inch shorter, by comparison, than they should be, diminish by that much what the excess in length of the extremity would other- wise have amounted to, and, together with the studious efforts of this young lady to con- ceal her lameness, by walking leisurely, and as much as possible upon the toes of the sound leg, renders her deformity less evident than it otherwise would be. She tells me, however, that she is incapacitated from standing long, walking far, or upon a sloping or uneven pavement, without considerable pain and fa- tigue. That no true ankylosis of the joint exists, is known by the lateral motion which can be given to the astragalus and tarsus, by moving the toes alternately inwards and out- wards. The indications of cure were to divide the tendo Achillis, as in similar contractions from other causes, and by gradual stretching by the appropriate apparatus, to obtain, if pos- sible, the full natural extent of motion of the ankle-joint. But there were difficulties in the way of an operation—the lowest cicatrix uniting skin, bones, and tendo Achillis, ap- proached so near to the insertion of the latter into the os calcis,—within an inch of it,—and the distance between the anterior surface of the tendon and the back of the ankle-joint, which is occupied in a healthy limb, by yield- ing cellular tissue, appeared from the thick- ening and induration around the tendon, to be filled up by so dense a mass of organised lymph, that there remained no part of the tendon, at which its section could be very conveniently accomplished. There was the necessity of keeping sufficiently far from the bursa, at the insertion of the tendo Achillis upon the one hand, and the objection of tra- versing old cicatrices with the knife on the other. As, however, I was convinced that with the division of the large inelastic tendo Achillis, and as much of the subjacent indu- rated cellular tissue as I could, with safety to the tibial vessels and nerve, reach (unless that which might be left undivided were com- pletely fibro-cartilaginous), much more than half of the obstacles to bending the joint would be overcome, I did not hesitate to un- dertake the treatment of the case, upon the same principles as those which guide me in the uncomplicated congenital or non-congeni- tal club-foot. Sept. 7.—Divided the tendo Achillis, using a small straight French bistoury. I passed the knife into the inside of the limb, opposite to the part where the tendon was least en- gaged by the adhesions, as far from the ante- rior surface of the tendon as was compatible