FISTULA. 190 string on each side. These are tied together to prevent the lint from falling out of the linen bag or envelope. If inflammation super- vene, it must be combated by the means already mentioned above. This mode of operating by incision, which is exceedingly simple, and accomplishes the object of preventing the lodgment of pus and faecal matter, by throwing the fistulous track and the rectum into one cavity, is almost uni- versally preferred in this country. Some per- sons, however, there are, who, from an in- vincible dread of the knife, will impose on the practitioner the necessity of yielding to their feelings, and the operation by ligature is had recourse to. The ligature, in fact, effects the very same thing that the knife does—namely, the division of all the parts between the fistula and the rectum, with this difference only, that it requires a much longer time, and is often productive of great suffering, particularly at the times when the tightening is renewed. It is, however, true, that this inconvenience might be, with care, and a very gradual but continued constriction, much diminished. On the other hand, though the ligature is slow, sometimes painful, and may give rise to in- flammation, which would require its relaxa- tion, it is not without some recommendations in its favour. The cicatrization of the fistula proceeds simultaneously with the progress of the ligature, so that when it has made its way out, the fistula is cured ; it does not give rise to haemorrhage,—and this is a point of some importance, when the internal orifice of the fistula is situated high up the rectum, or when the haemorrhoidal vessels are much dilated ; and after the few first days of its application, the patient is able to move about and attend to his business. If, however, the extent of skin to be included in the ligature were con- siderable, it should not be employed, as in the long run it would be necessary to divide it with the knife. Several instruments have been recommend- ed by Desault and others for applying the ligature. The simplest is a needle-probe, or director, of flexible silver, by means of which the ligature, which may be of silk or lead- wire, is passed through the fistula. The end is then brought out through the anus, and tied upon a small linen cylinder, or the lead- wire ends are twisted on each other. The silk ligature will be found to answer best. Lint, or linen compresses are employed, to prevent the ligature from chafing the opposite side of the anus. After a few days, the sur- geon begins to tighten very gradually, and in this way, in the space of three or four weeks, the ligature makes its way through all the tissues it embraced. If it remained a longer time, and there were any appearance of its giving way from rotting, it should be renew- ed. This is done by tying a fresh one to one of its ends, and then drawing it through the fistula, in the same way as the cord of a seton is renewed. This done, the ligature is tight- ened as before. Compression has also been proposed and employed of late in cases of anal fistula. The object in these attempts has been to close the internal orifice of the fistula against the pas- sage of stercoraceous matter, and thus to sup- press the irritation which it keeps up in the fistulous track. M. Bermond has proposed a double canula, the outer one being covered with a chemise. This instrument is introduced into the rectum, and the space between it and the chemise is packed with sponge, lint, or old linen, until the intestine ia sufficiently distend- ed. In order to allow of the evacuation of the bowels without disturbing the instrument, the inner canula, which is terminated by a round top, is removable at pleasure ; its outer end affords attachment to tapes or ribands, which, being fixed to a body bandage, serve to keep the instrument in its place. M. Co- lombe has attempted the same thing, by intro- ducing, and retaining in the same manner, a hollow cylinder of ebony or elastic gum. Some observations, however, show, that the office of the inner canula in M. Bermond’s plan is not without utility, as the mucous membrane of the gut has become prolapsed in M. Colombe’s open cylinder. Experience has not yet pronounced on the value of the plan ; but it is obvious the function of the bowels can be sufficiently facilitated by emol- lient injections through the canula. Bibliography.—Read, Treatise of the Fistula in the Fundament. London, 15(18. Lemonnier, Traite de la Fistule a l’Anus. Paris, 1689. Bass, De Fistula Ani feliciter curanda. Halle, 1717. Caste, E-sai sur la Fistnle a l’Anus. Potsdam, 1757. Pott, Remarks on the Disease commonly called Fistula in Ano. Lond. 1765. Bousqiiet, Mem. sur le Traitement des Fistules a l'Auus. Stockholm, 1767. Dennsdorf, De Ani Fistula ferro cito, tuto, et jucunde sananda. Erford, 1767. Paget, Remarcjues sur les Abces qui arrivent au Fondement, in Mem. de l’Acad. de Chir. tom. ler, and Fouhert, Sur les Grands Alices du Fondement, in Mem. de l’Acad. tom. 3. Camper, De Fistulis inter Vesicam ct Rectum liiantibus. Chopart, Diss. de Fistula Ani. Paris, 1772 Gueken- berger, Diss. de Ligatura Fistularum Ani. Goctt. 1784. Valtolini, Della Fistula dell’ Ano. Bergamo, 1790. Tincliant, De Perieulo Operationis Fistulse Ani. Strasbourg, 1790. Buffos, Diss. sur les Fistules a l’Anus. Paris, 1803. Whately, Cases of Polypi, with the Description of a New Instrument for Fistula in Ano. Lond. 1805. Oetzmann, De Fistula Ani. Jena, 1812. Copeland, Observations on the principal Diseases of the Rectum, the I hemorrhoidal Excres- cence, and Fistula in Ano. Lond. 1814. Bell, C. Treatise on Diseases of the Rectum. Lond. 1820. Ribes, Recherches sur la Situation dc l’Orifice Interne de la Fistule de l’Anus, in the Revue Med. p. 174. Paris, 1820. Sabatier, Med. Operatoire. Paris, 1822. Hotvship, Practical Observations. Lond. 1824. Che- lius, Handbuch der Chir. Heidelberg, 1826. Velpeau, Nouveaux Elemens de Med. Operatoire. Paris, 1832. Sir B. Brodie, in Med. Gaz. for 1835 and 1836, pp. 26, et seq. and 184, ct seq. (Wm. B. Costello.) FISTULA AERIAL, See Fistula Tho- racic. For Bronchial, Gastro-Bronchial, Hcpato-Bronchial, Laryngeal, Pleural, and Pulmonary Fistula, see also Thoracic Fis- tula.