ANEURISM. 259 surface it gives off the vertebral artery ; the recurrent nerve here turns round its base, to reach the trachea; it is crossed in front by the phrenic and pneumo-gastric nerves ; it gives off in this short course no less than six important branches, and is covered below by the termination of the internal jugular vein. Beset with difficulties at every step, and dangers of the most formidable kind, as this operation must be, it has nevertheless been performed. Dr. Colles, of Dublin, having a case of aneurism of the right subclavian ar- tery, in which the tumour extended from behind the sterno-clavicular articulation up- wards along the edge of the muscle, and out- wards to the middle of the clavicle, was bold enough to cut down upon this part of the sub- clavian artery : the dissection was of course tedious, and on arriving at the vessel only a very small portion of it was found to be in a healthy state; and on this, after consider- able difficulty, the ligature was placed. From symptoms of oppression at the heart and dyspnoea that occurred at the moment, it was feared that the pleura had been injured, and, in consequence, it was deemed prudent not to tighten the ligature till the fourth day after. The patient continued in a tolerably quiet state till the ninth day, when he was attacked with pain at the heart, accompanied by a sense of suffocation : he died delirious, after a few hours’ suffering. Both the aorta and subclavian were diseased. The operation has not since been attempted by any other surgeon. On the dead body it is performed in the following manner : an incision is made over the clavicular portion of the mastoid, extending outwards to within an inch of the trapezius. This portion of the muscle is next divided on a director, or with a blunt-pointed bistoury. The anterior sca- lenus is then seen, to the tracheal side of which the pulsations of the artery may be felt. The most difficult step of the operation still remains, which is not so much the pass- ing a ligature round the artery, as the isolat- ing it from all the important parts that sur- round, or are in contact with it, at almost all points. Whether this operation ought to be at- tempted under any, or even under favourable circumstances, is a question which now pre- sents a different bearing from that which it had when Dr. Colies performed it. Brasdor’s operation at that time had almost fallen into oblivion. But now, that we know that aneu- risms of the first magnitude may be cured, not only by cutting off the circulation within them, but also by causing it to become more slow and languid, Brasdor’s method presents itself as an alternative in such cases, which, all things considered, may deserve the prefer- ence. Dupuytren treated a case in this man- ner ; and although the issue was not success- ful, as the patient died on the ninth day, still the tumour had diminished considerably, and his death seemed to arise in consequence of haemorrhage from another vessel than that on which the ligature had been placed. The most cogent reason for operating at an early stage in cases of axillary aneurism, is this—that tying the subclavian is compara- tively an easy task, before the tumour has become large, and forced the clavicle up- wards ; and the higher we ascend on the vessel, the greater the hazard. The inter- scalenar portion of the vessel should always be spared, if there still be space left for the ligature between the scalenus and the clavicle ; and if the case will admit of a ligature being placed below the clavicle, it is still better. This precept is not founded exclusively on saving the collateral circulation to the utmost extent possible, for in the cases of this operation that have proved fatal, gangrene has been but rarely observed ; it is also based on the fact, of the greater frequency of dyspnoea, suffoca- tion, pain at the heart, fever, and delirium, in proportion as the ligature of this vessel has approached nearer to the centre of the circu- lation. In fact, where the ligature had been placed high on the vessel, it has been re- marked with what rapidity the anastomosing branches have conveyed the blood into its old channels : in some, the pulsations have re-ap- peared in the tumour as early as the second day after the operation. Ramsden was the first who performed this operation. In the early cases the failures succeeded each other without interruption, until Dr. Post, of New-York, was fortunate in the case that he operated on in 1807. Since that period, the operation of taking up the vessel between the anterior scalenus and cla- vicle has been successful in the hands of Dupuytren, Bullen, Green, Gibbs of St. Pe- tersburgh, Key, Langenbeck, Liston, Mott, Porter, Wardrop, &c.: the successful now exceeding the unsuccessful cases by a few. With respect, therefore, to results, they are not more encouraging from being placed on the cardiac, than on the capillary side of the aneurism. INNOMINATA, OR BRACHIO-CEPHALIC ARTERY. The innominata arises from the arch of the aorta itself, on its right side, and after ascend- ing about two inches towards the articulation of the sternum and clavicle of the same side, gives origin to the right carotid and subclav- ian. It lies deep, having in front the left sub- clavian vein, the pneumo-gastric nerve, and some of the branches of the great sympathetic, and behind to the left, the trachea: it is in contact with the pleura to the outside. Though more profoundly situated, it is more accessible than the commencement of the subclavian ar- tery, and can be more easily isolated than that vessel from the investing parts : it is also free from branches. The innominata was first tied by Mott. He performed the operation as follows :—The pa- tient having been placed on his back, the head thrown considerably backwards, in order to S 2