G05 CANCER, PHYSIOLOGY OF. normal dimensions, there is no atrophy of the proper 1 Livrais. xii. Foie, p. 5. the superadded growth should at once be within the cavity of the serous sac and in- vested by a reflection of it. So long then as the connexion of cysts with cancer is trace- able, their independence as cause and effect seems apparent. Besides this, it has been al- leged by Dr. Carswell, who has used very much the same line of argument as the above, in refutation of the cystic theory, that carci- nomatous structure, when connected with a cyst, is supplied with blood by vessels not be- longing to that membrane. This pathologist admits that cancerous matter may be thrown out on the internal surface of accidental cysts developed in subjects of a cancerous diathesis : he does not, however, state that he has actually seen carcinoma so situated. The theory just examined makes the ex- istence of a cyst of primary importance in the formation of cancerous matter; but Dr. Hodgkin modifies, in another part of his volume, its obvious bearing in this respect. He there “ takes views of the commencement of the adventitious structure, which exclude the question as to the priority of the cyst or its contents, as the formation of both is almost simultaneous, and proceeds pari passu” (p. 281). All claim to formative function on the part of the cysts is here relinquished. M. Cruveilhier, whose laborious attention to pathological anatomy for a number of years entitles his inferences to most atten- tive consideration, professes opinions on the subject of the seat and origin of cancer ma- terially different from those held by his con- temporaries. M. Cruveilhier’s doctrine em- braces two essentially distinct propositions. First, he regards all heterologous formations “ as the exclusive result of a successive depo- sition of morbid products in the cellular ele- ment of organs he believes that “ this cel- lular element is alone affected ; that the proper tissue of organs is in itself incapable of under- going any organic lesion, except hypertrophy and atrophy ; that at first rendered hyper- trophous by the state of irritation existing in the neighbouring cellular membrane, these proper tissues subsequently become atrophous and finally disappear in consequence of the pressure they undergo from the diseased formation.” But this unalterableness of com- position of the organic tissues is the least im- portant part of the doctrine ; for, secondly, “ it results from his researches that the for- mation of cancer, like all nutritive phenomena, physiological and morbid, takes place in the venous capillary system ; that from it the morbid products are poured into the cellular membrane, either by exhalation or through lacerated openings1.” This latter proposi- ' The escape of the cancerous matter from the capillary vessels is a point of inferior importance, and apparently rather accidental than otherwise, according to M. C.’s notions. In sneaking of cases in which the uterus looks healthy, though it affords cancerous matter on expression, he states that the veins are its containing element, but that as they retain their tion, as it affects cancer, is evidently only a part of his more general theory, according to which the various phenomena of nutrition, secretion, and inflammation, are accomplished, not as has heretofore been believed in the arterial, but in the venous capillaries. It would be foreign to our present purpose to inquire into the validity of the arguments on which the learned Professor rests his general doctrine ; we have at present only to do with the particular evidence adduced by him to prove that carcinoma occurs primitively and invariably in the seat he has assigned. Now in the numerous passages of his great work in which this theory is emphatically dwelt on, and pronounced to be a demonstrated truth, we find no single fact but the occurrence of carcinomatous matter in the veins advanced in its support. We shall by and by inquire whether the inference from the fact is per- fectly warranted. Dr. Carswell has investigated the delicate points under consideration on the correct principle that, in order to obtain satisfactory results thereon, the morbid matter must be ob- served as soon as possible after deposition, and its development thus traced, as it were, ab ovo. Examining the question in this way, he con- ceives he has ascertained that carcinoma originates in three positions—in the molecular structure of organs as a product of nutrition ; on free serous surfaces, as a result of secre- tion ; and in the blood. Deposition in the molecular structure of organs is exemplified by the mode of forma- tion observable in the liver. If a liver studded with carcinomatous growths be closely examined, certain minute spots may be de- tected, in which a slight change of colour in- dicates the commencement of the process of morbid formation. This alteration of colour may be limited to a single “ acinus,” or occur in several of these bodies either successively or simultaneously. Their natural colour is succeeded by a pale milk-white, or straw tint, the alteration being attended with an increase of consistence ; but at the same time, and this is represented to be the most im- portant circumstance attending the diseased process, the form and bulk of the “ acini” re- main unaltered. Hence it is inferred that the foreign substance must be introduced in the same order as the normal element of nu- trition ; otherwise a change of bulk would co- advance with that of colour and consistence. M. Cruveilhier also observes, that cancerous growths of the liver in the nascent state ac- curately represent in point of form the he- patic granulations, and that the disease origi- nates in the granulations themselves, and not in the cellular membrane connecting them Admitted by observers w’hose theoretical tissue of the organ. Where there is formation of distinct tumour, the coats of those vessels become enormously distended by the morbid matter, and excessively fragile. Livrais. xxvii.