664 CANCER. (b.) After perforation.—The cancerous for- mation having thus overcome the firmest obstacle in its way, protrudes through the adventitious foramen in the form of a fungous tumour. This tumour may possess one or more of several characters, which, if combined in any number, are pathognomonic of its nature. It presents the lobular surface, the soft elasticity and hardness of encephaloid ; it is immoveable, yet non-adherent to the skin, which itself retains its natural appear- ance. In point of size the tumour varies ex- ceedingly—at an early period hardly so large as a nut, it may eventually acquire, as in Grima’s case (Louis), the dimensions of “a second head.” When the protruding mass does not bulge out far beyond the edge of the perforation, the irregular borders of the latter may sometimes be distinctly traced. It is the seat of two kinds of pulsation—one of these synchronous with the arterial pulse ; the other corresponding to the rise and fall of the brain accompanying expiration and inspiration. The tumour may be pushed within the cranium either wholly or in part, a change in its position giving rise to sym- ptoms of cerebral compression : when left to itself it recovers its previous appearance and size. It is usually indolent under pressure, but is frequently the seat of darting pain : Louis, the Wenzels, and Boyer, suppose this produced by the sharp edge of the bone, and state that it inay be relieved by gentle pressure. As the size of the tumour augments, the skin becomes tense, discoloured, and thin, and finally opens ; the fungous growth pro- trudes, and the usual phenomena of such ulcers are exhibited. Death has, however, usually occurred before the disease had reached this stage. Before the protrusion of the fungus a peculiar crepitus is heard on pressing the attenuated bone covering it; this sensation is afterwards perceived within the limits of the destruction of the tables and diploe. The appearance of the tumour on the exterior of the skull is sometimes sudden, and may be accompanied, as in Robin’s case (Louis), with severe symptoms—vomiting, hiccup, small pulse, and cold extremities. But almost all these symptoms may be absent. According to Velpeau the expiratory elevation will be nearly always wanting, if the dura mater possess its natural powers of resistance, if the tumour does not protrude internally, if it traverse a thick bone, if it is not broad-based, or if it be tightly compressed between the dura mater and the integuments. Cnelius’ first case shows that the growth inay be easily reducible and yet unaffected by the respiratory movements. Whether the ar- terial motion depend on transmission of the cerebral vascular pulsation or on intrinsic pulsation is undetermined ; but it may be absent altogether. It must not be confounded with the individual beating of vessels ramify- ing on the surface. If the mass communicate with the interior of the skull by a narrow pedicle, it is irreducible : adhesions and thick- ening of the dura mater will sometimes pro- duce a similar effect. Under these circum- stances pressure on the tumour produces no effect on the cerebral functions : this is easily intelligible. But Espinosa reports a case from the practice of Dupuytren in which almost complete reduction of the tumour within the skull produced none of the sym- ptoms of compression ; and in Chelius’s first case a similar peculiarity was noticed. In Ebermaier’s case of fungus sprouting from the substance of the brain the disease first presented itself externally as a painful doughy tumour, about half as large as a walnut: at a later period the protruding growth could be pushed into the cranium without produc- ing any apoplectic symptoms ; a motion dis- tinctly corresponding to the expiratory eleva- tion of the brain existed in the tumour. The case was attended with various symptoms of cerebral disease, and terminated fatally about a year after the occurrence of protrusion. The following is Ebermaier’s description ot the course and symptoms of the disease when originating in the substance of the cranium. Without appreciable cause either local or general in the majority of cases, sometimes, however, in consequence of a cachexia [dia- thesis], at others of local injury, without pain, cerebral symptom or inflammation of any kind, a hard, accurately circumscribed, im- moveable tumour, non-adherent to the skin, is developed in a variable point of the skull, causes no inconvenience for a length of time but does not yield to treatment : it has all the characters of an exostosis. The whole mass continues to grow, containing as its nucleus a sort of skeleton of osseous lamellae pro- longed into fibrous cellular tissue, between which encephaloid matter accumulates ; these lamellae sometimes produce an appearance resembling that of the sea-hedgehog, as is seen in fig. 168. Fig. 168. The tumour remains without change until death,circumscribed, solid, immoveable ; there is no trace of osseous edge at its base—the