CONDYLOMA. 811 stances, the discharge and the condylomata stand in the relation of cause and effect to each other. But, being once produced, the condyloniatous sores have, undoubtedly, the property of giving rise to fresh ones, both in the same and in other individuals. The facts which have been mentioned prove the first position. The second is established by arti- ficial inoculation, as well as by experiments of a less premeditated character. Case.—A gentleman, on the eve of being married, had connexion with a female. He had not incurred a similar risk for a long time previously. On the next day, he consulted me for what he considered an excoriation. The inner prepuce was rather abraded in the neighbourhood of the frsenum. In the course of a few days, the abrasion was converted into a sore with a hardened basis, or rather cupped and yellow surface, and slightly picked, yet raised, edges — in short, what seemed a syphilitic sore. I requested an examination of the female. This she willingly granted, protesting the while that she was well. The labia and the inside of the thighs were studded with ulcerated condylomata, and a discharge in some quantity issued from the vagina. No- thing further was detected by the speculum. In this instance, the condylomata gave rise to a sore very similar to the common syphilitic sore. Both patients were put upon a course of mercury, and both perfectly recovered. In two cases, I have seen the ulcerated condyloma follow phagediena. They are at- tended with features of sufficient interest, to induce me to take the liberty of introducing them. Case I.—A gentleman, on a provincial tour, contracted a sore on the dorsum of the penis. He consulted a surgeon, who assured him that it was not syphilitic. He continued his ex- cursion ; and, in three weeks after the appear- ance of the sore, returned to town. He then applied to me. The sore was of some size, irregular, jagged, with a hardened base, and elevated edges. It wore the characters of syphilis, irritated and inflamed by free living and exertion. I prescribed salines and pur- gatives, to get rid of the inflammatory action ; and then, the sore maintaining its specific aspect, he was put on a moderate course of mercury. All went on well at first, and the sore had nearly healed, when, without appa- rent cause, it spread and assumed a phagedae- nic aspect. Mercury now evidently disagreed, and was, of necessity, abandoned. Slowly the sore improved, and was again almost cica- trized, when the scrotum and penis became red, a copious, offensive, watery, and acrimo- nious discharge was poured forth from their surface ; and, speedily, this was studded with condyloniatous ulcers. The irritation was ex- cessive. Hot baths and the bichloride lotion did some good, but it was necessary again to give mercury, with caution, before the condy- lomata could be removed. No secondary symptoms followed. Case 2.—A gentleman noticed a sore on the 12 dorsum penis as much as six weeks after con- nexion. Soon afterwards he consulted me. The sore was nearly circular, elevated, with a hardened base, and a yellowish, spongy sur- face. It looked very like a specific sore, yet the history, on which I could depend, was staggering. After trying some other means to no good purpose, I prescribed a mild course of mercury. The mouth was speedily affected. The sore improved to a certain point—retrograded—threatened to be pha- gedaenic. The mercury was abandoned, and gradually the sore healed. By this time, (be- tween six and seven weeks had elapsed,) a cachectic ulcer appeared below the right knee. This healed under sarsaparilla and the iodide of potassium. Condyloniatous sores now broke out on the penis and the scrotum, with com- mon condyloniatous excrescences around the anus, psoriasis diffusa over the whole body, superficial yellowish white ulceration on the tonsils, the anterior palatine arch and velum, and condylomatous-looking deposits, as well as yellowish fissures in the tongue. The smallest quantity of mercury aggravated these symptoms ; sarsaparilla and the iodide of pot- assium disagreed, and the only treatment that proved of any service was the liquor potassse, with infusion of taraxacum and salines, in connexion with the hot bath. The local re- medies that answered best were the bichloride lotion and ointment to the condylomata, and the solution of the nitrate of silver and the linimentum aeruginis to the tongue and to the throat. This gentleman, after many months’ illness, got quite well. These cases are curious, and different opi- nions may be formed upon their nature. In the one case, mercury cured these condylo- mata; in the other, they were cured without it. The latter case, indeed, appeared to me to be an instance of psoriasis and condylomata, produced by mercury in a person of peculiar constitution. Either it was so, or there were venereal symptoms in a habit that could not support mercurial action. Whichever may be the correct explanation, such cases are always tedious, generally unsatisfactory, and, to an inexperienced surgeon, perplexing, if not ha- zardous. SECONDARY CONSEQUENCES OF THE VENEREAL CONDYLOMA. The ulcerated condyloma would appear to be entitled to rank among the forms of syphi- lis; for it may be followed by unequivocal secondary affections1. 1. Bubo Is seldom noticed in the non-ulcerated va- riety of condyloma. But as that is an effect 1 I would be by no means understood to say, that the ulcerated condyloma only is succeeded by second- ary symptoms. The non-ulcerated form may give birth to them, too : but, so far as my observation has gone, the latter has not done so as often as the former.