351- AQUO-MEMBRANITIS. margin of tlie cornea, and the zonular redness, will cease to exist. 2. At a very early period of the disease the aqueous humour becomes cloudy—slightly turbid, as it is seen to be in many acute forms of ophthalmia ; and, on a careful examination, it will probably be found that the lining mem- brane of the cornea is also cloudy, that the polish of the iris is impaired, and that the pupil has a dull and smoky appearance. The deep-seated cloudiness of the cornea cannot, however, be confounded with the “ bluish- white,” the “ ground glass,” the “ dew-drop,” the “ glace depolie," appearance of the cor- nea, which is noticed when the superficial portion of its lamellar texture is the seat of inflammation. In the progress of the disease a few minute milky spots are observed at various parts of the inflamed membrane, some- times upon its corneal (and when in this situa- tion they are very distinctly seen), sometimes upon its iridal, and sometimes upon its cap- sular portions; and these somewhat dense spots will occasionally be surrounded by a filmy streaky matter, possessing a degree of opacity, intervening between that of the mere general muddiness and the limited densely opaque spots to which I have just referred. It has been stated by Mr. Wardrop, that these dense spots are the result of an intense degree of inflammation of the lamellar texture of the cornea; but as they occur near and around parts of the inflamed membrane, re- mote from the cornea, I am rather inclined to consider them as the effects or products of the inflammation of the serous membrane merely, such as occur in inflammation of the Same tissue in other situations. I am satis- fied, however, that they are more manifest when existing in the corneal portion of the inflamed membrane, and that when unusually dense and extensive, it is extremely probable that such great amount of opacity is partly owing to the inflammation of a neighbouring portion of the corneal lamellae. When the inflammation has existed for several days the cornea appears prominent, and there is a sense of tension and undue fulness of the eye- ball. If we continue to trace the progress of the inflammation, we find that the pupil be- comes irregular, somewhat contracted, and very cloudy, the surface of the iris rough, unequal and deprived of its polish, and that various changes take place, which will be hereafter mentioned as the effects of the malady. 3. There is seldom much intolerance of light present, but there is generally an in- creased secretion of tears, but not to the same extent as may be noticed in inflammation of the lamellar texture of the cornea or iris. 4. The condition of vision is, from the first, impaired, and this defect increases as the dis- ease advances, until, aided by the diminution in the size of the pupil, but chiefly by various inflammatory depositions, it may be wholly destroyed. The tension of the globe, the nebulosity of the cornea, the turbidity of the aqueous humour, and the cloudiness of the capsular portion of its membrane, sufficiently explain the impairment of sight, even at an early stage of the malady. 5. The first sensation of any approach to severe pain arises from the plenitude of the anterior chamber, as manifested by the pro- minent state of the cornea, and the patient’s account of his own sensations ; but the disease is rarely attended by any great degree of in- tolerance of light, and may continue for a con- siderable period without occasioning much suffering. Pain over the eye-brow, and some- times hemicrania, are complained of, but it is only occasionally that they acquire any distressing degree of severity. Constitutional symptoms.—The general healt h of those who suffer from this disease, when it is idiopathic, has, in general, become impaired for some time before it occurs ; so that it would almost appear that derangement of the health was, in a certain degree, necessary to its existence ; derangement of the health is undoubtedly favourable to its occurrence. The symptoms of feverish excitement, and constitutional derangement, which may attend, or proceed from, the inflamed condition of the eye are very variable, depending, for the most part, on the severity of the ophthalmic inflam- mation, its degree of protraction, and the nature of the remedies employed for its re- moval. Sequela.—The distention to which the cor- nea is subject in consequence of the increased exhalation from the inflamed membrane, has, under my own observation, occasioned near- sightedness, and conical cornea; but I am not aware that it has had any injurious effect, be- yond this, except such as relates to the cloudi- ness of its lining membrane, and, perhaps, also of its innermost layer. The aqueous humour is, at first, merely turbid, but it soon becomes more materially changed. I have seen small filmy matters, and also distinct flakes and globules of lymph floating about in it', and, on a few rare occasions, a thin purulent matter has been secreted. Sometimes the whole of the corneal portion becomes thickened, and coated with a layer of lymph, or the chambers of the eye may be nearly filled with a deposition of lymph. Sometimes the iritic or capsular portions of the membrane alone are thickened, and rendered opaque, either wholly or par- tially. When the iridal portion of the mem- brane of the aqueous humour becomes opaque and thickened, the iritic texture has generally been involved in the inflammation, and its colour has undergone some degree of altera- tion. The pupil may be diminished, and ren- dered irregular, by the formation of frenular adhesions, passing from side to side, or by the 1 The fixed globules of lymph noticed in inflam- mation of the true iritic texture are not observed when the capsule of the aqueous humour is inflamed. In the former case the secreted matters are confined and retained by the enveloping membrane; but in the latter instance they are, if liquid, at once secreted into the chambers of the eye.