BLOOD-LETTING. 479 pint of arterial blood will produce a different effect on the circulation from that of an equal quantity of venous blood, and moreover, that the same quantity taken from the capillary system, will produce effects different both from a venous and arterial blood-letting, for when leeches or cupping are employed, both venous and arterial blood will be at the same time removed. The chief reasons usually given for opening an artery in preference to a vein, is that the blood is obtained from an artery more promptly, in a larger quantity, and more directly from the affected part. But as the temporal artery is almost the only vessel upon which arteriotomy is usually performed, we know little of the cu- rative effects produced by abstracting arierial blood, except when it has been taken from that , vessel; and I have generally found, and I be- lieve this coincides with the experience of many others, that the inflammatory symptoms | recur much more frequently after blood has I been removed from an artery, than if an equal ' quantity had been taken from a vein. The effects of opening the temporal artery : in puriform ophthalmia, or conjunctival inflam- | mation, distinctly shows the difference in the i effect of arterial and venous depletion in the treatment of inflammation. An eye, com- pletely injected with red vessels, will be sud- denly relieved by opening the temporal artery, and the conjunctiva will become quite pale, in- ducing one to suppose that the inflammation is subdued. But generally, sooner or later, even in a few hours, the redness and pain return ; whereas had a vein in the arm been opened under similar circumstances, and an equal quantity of blood removed, the good effects of such a blood-letting would have been permanent. A little reflection may assist in explain- ing how this difference of effect is produced. When blood is abstracted from an artery, there is an immediate diminution in the supply of blood to the part nourished by that artery ; but such is the vigour of the anastomosing branches, that the supply which is thus cut off is very quickly restored. This fact is confirmed by observation. If a ligature be placed upon one of the carotid arteries, almost immediately the temporal and occipital branches of the carotid of the opposite side of the head may be distin- I guished through the integuments, dilating, becoming tortuous, and struggling, as it were, to circulate an additional quantity of blood. I was first led to make this remark in the case of a child, on one of whose carotid arteries I had placed a ligature for the cure of a very large nsevus of the cheek. Almost immediately after the operation, the frontal, temporal, and occi- pital arteries of the opposite side of the head | began to enlarge, increase in their action, be- | come tortuous, and were actively employed in performing the function of those vessels whose channels had been obstructed. Indeed i it was a knowledge of this function of the anas- j tomosing branches of the arterial system when a trunk is obliterated, which led Hunter to perform the “ high operation” for popliteal aneurism. The same interesting phenomena are exhibited in the eye, when an artery on the sclerotic conjunctiva, passing into a speck upon the cornea, is divided. Vessels con- veying red blood will then be immediately perceived stretching across the cornea from the opposite side, to supply the place of the vessel which had been destroyed. Whenever, therefore, the supply of blood to any organ is diminished, the arterial system, by a wise provision of the economy, the vis conservatrix naturce makes an effort to throw blood by another channel, to that part which has been deprived of its natural quantity, and thus the action of the heart and arteries must be more or less increased. But the abstraction of blood from a vein is followed by no such in- creased action of the heart and arteries ; there is no local diminution in the supply of arterial blood, no effort made by the arteries to supply the place of the venous blood which has been removed. On the contrary, the diminished supply of venous blood to the heart, by the operation of phlebotomy, will have the effect of diminishing the vigour of the heart’s action, and consequently that of the whole arterial system. There is, therefore, an important difference between the changes which take place in the action of the vessels of a part, when blood has been taken from an artery and from a vein ; and one proof that the abstraction ofvenous blood is the most useful in the cure of disease is, that in those natural or “ spontaneous haemorrhages” which are so salutary, such as those from the nose and hasmorrhoidal vessels, the blood which is discharged appears to be chiefly venous. Where leeches and cupping are had recourse to, it no doubt happens that they remove both arterial and venous blood at the same time ; but the circumstances under which these ope- rations are performed, do not furnish us with any opportunity of discriminating the compa- rative effects of the abstraction of venous and arterial blood. LOCAL AND GENERAL BLOOD-LETTING. When blood is abstracted from an artery, or from a vein, it is called general blood-letting ; and if it be removed by leeches or cupping, it is called local or topical bloodletting. This dis- tinction is highly useful for practical purposes, though, strictly speaking, it may not be deemed physiologically correct, for it is evident that a local bloodletting may be carried to such an extent as to influence the whole system, and that a general blood-letting may produce on the disease of a particular part all the effects of a local bleeding. Blood-letting has also been denominated derivative and revulsive; terms employed to denote particular effects, which are produced by the abstraction of blood according to the different methods of performing the operation. It is called derivative, when the blood is re-