ANKYLOBLEPHARON. .‘>02 utility of the malleoles in keeping the astraga- lus firmly in its cavity, they should always be spared whenever prudence will allow. M. Seutin, however, was obliged to re- move the whole of the fibula, which was dis- eased throughout : I have seen this prepara- tion, which is probably unique, at Brussels. The patient recovered, and could make use of his leg, which, as M. Seutin remarks, in the printed history of this bold operation, is a proof that the external malleole is not indis- pensably necessary for progression. M. Roux has also removed the whole of the shaft of the fibula, leaving behind the two extremities. Excision of the lower extremities of the tibia and fibula, rejected by many, is still performed by some enterprising surgeons. Mr. Syme, in his work on excision of bones, appears in favour of it. M. Roux has twice performed it; once fatally, and once with complete suc- cess—the patient can make use of his limb. (Claudius Tarral.) ANKYLOBLEPHARON: (fromayKv\n, ‘ a band, or bond of union,’ and f3\e<papov, eye- lid ;) Any adhesion of the eyelids to each other. Adhesions generally take place at the outer canthus; they are less frequent at the inner; and they are very rarely observed either in the middle of the palpebral commis- sure, or at both its extremities at the same time. Occurring in such various forms, the ankyloblepharon is said to be complete, or in- complete ; the former designation being re- served for those cases in which the occlusion of the lids is perfect throughout. The adhe- sion may, or may not be formed by the inter- position of an adventitious tissue; in the first case the adhesion consists of a membranous band, more or less broad, and this is more es- pecially the character of the congenital anky- loblepharon. Sometimes the adhesion as- sumes a trellis or lattice form, the opening between the eyelids appearing to consist of numerous small divisions. In other cases, there seems to be no uniting medium, the lids adhering by a faint white line of condensed cellular tissue. An ankyloblepharon is also described as true or false; the latter signifying the mere agglutination of the eyelids by se- baceous matter, which sometimes occurs. Here the real adhesion has not yet taken place, but it may be produced, more especi- ally if psorophthalmia with excoriations, or any eruption, that of small-pox for instance, be present at the same time. Sometimes the adhesion is not confined to the eyelids alone, but extends to the eyeball itself. This latter form of adhesion is called symblepharon, and may exist without the former. The diagnosis is established by introducing a smooth flexible probe under the eyelids. If the eyeball and lids be adherent, the patient is unable to move the former, and on every attempt to do so, the eyelid becomes wrinkled. The probe may also be used for this purpose, or the upper lid may be raised from the eye in a fold between the thumb and index-finger, and the patient directed to move the eyeball in every direction. If this can be accomplished, no symblepharon exists. It should, however, be observed, that this indi- cation is often only decisive when the cicatrix extends through the whole eyelid, embracing at the same time both its inner and outer lamella. If the external lamella should not be closely united to the internal by effusion, the former may be raised in a fold, and the eyeball moved beneath it, even though sym- blepharon in reality exist. In such cases, certainty can only be arrived at by the intro- duction of a probe. As the symblepharon is but another form of the same disease, it will not be out of place to include it under the same head, more espe- cially as it presents the same varieties (ac- cording as it is complete or incomplete) of membranous frsenula, bands, or extensive ad- hesion between the conjunctiva, and the eye- ball. As regards the diagnosis, it is a point of much interest to ascertain if the patient can still distinguish light. If light be not perceived at all, and the globe of the eye is normal, we may conclude that the whole cor- nea participates in the adhesion. The imper- fect symblepharon occurs most frequently in the upper lid. An ankyloblepharon, even though only in- complete, produces not only great disfigura- tion, but injures the sight itself more or less particularly when it is of long standing, and extends to a considerable length of the tarsal margins. The retina, deprived of its natural stimulant, light, becomes gradually enfeebled, and paralysis ensues. In complete symble- pharon, sight is lost altogether. In partial adhesion of the eyelids, squinting, or even complete obliquity of the eyeball in the direction opposite to the adhesion is often produced ; or the palpebral openings assume a peculiar obliquity of direction similar to that of the Chinese. When the lachrymal puneta are closed, stillicidium of the tears, and dryness of the nostril take place on that side. When the disease is congenital, or of long standing, the eyeball frequently becomes atrophied. The causes are either a primitive malforma- tion, (and this case, which is of very rare oc- currence, should be called atresia of the eye- lids,) or adhesive inflammation, arising mostly from burns with quick-lime, gunpowder, boil- ing oil, steam, &c. The disease is also pro- duced in psorophthalmia attended with exco- riations. It was formerly often observed to occur from continually blindfolding in suppu- rative inflammations of the eyes, especially in small-pox and acute exanthemata, from traumatic lesions of the eye, or eyelids. The disease is often complicated with other affections, which assume a cachectic,rheumatic, scrofulous, syphilitic, or impetiginous form ; with malformations of the eyeball, in which it is small, irregular, or disfigured with cica- trices ; with suffusion of the cornea, pannus, &c.