ARTHRITIS, TRAUMATIC. 403 ing combined to effect a given purpose, but equally capable of acting separately. Hence an inequality of length, power, and mobility in the upper extremities produces little inconve- nience, compared with that arising from a simi- lar state of things in the lower. The injured arm will be extensively useful as an assistant to the other, and will be adequate to the perform- ance of many little offices; while the uninjured arm may be reserved for those occasions which require great strength and freedom of mo- tion To this it may be added, that the large size of the articulations of the lower extremity renders the operation more danger- ous, as a greater wound is inflicted. Where, however, the head of the femur is shattered by a ball, excision is unquestionably prefer- able, if other circumstances be favourable, to amputation at the hip-joint; and the success which has attended resection of the tibia, in injuries to the ankle-joint, furnishes ample warrant for applying the treatment to that articulation. There can be no doubt that in the upper extremity, excision is at least not more dangerous than amputations, and it ought therefore to be practised where any hope can be entertained of preserving the limbJ. 3. The third measure which the surgeon may be called upon to adopt in treating wounds of joints complicated with injury to bone is amputation. Though always a pain- ful resource, and never to be adopted until life and limb are laid in the balance against each other, it is often imperatively necessary. Attempts have been made to define accu- rately the cases in which amputation ought to be practised, but they have been signal failures, and such attempts will continue to be so until our knowledge of diathesis is much more extended. An injury the most severe and extensive will produce no alarming sym- ptoms in one case, while in another the slight- est and most trivial accident will rapidly de- I velope fatal consequences. The constitution of the patient must therefore receive careful attention, not less than the character of the wound ; and regard must also be given to the situation of the patient, as favourable or un- favourable to recovery. Modes of practice which would be wholly inadmissible in do- ■ mestic surgery may often be expedient amid the hurry and confusion of a camp. When i the constitution of the patient is bad, and his age advanced; when careful attention cannot be given to him, when he is placed in a crowded and unhealthy hospital, when the lesion is not confined to the articular apparatus, but extends into the body of 1 the bone, when the soft parts are much lacerated or destroyed, when, to the injury 1 of the joint, is added the rupture of a large i 1 2 Blackburn on the Excision of Diseased Joints.— I tiny’s Hospital Reports, vol. i. 2 bor a fuller consideration of the value of excision, | and for directions as to the treatment to be pursued after excision, the reader may consult the article Resection. blood-vessel, recourse must be had to ampu- tation. When the knee-joint is extensively injured, there ought rarely to be any hesita- tion in amputating, since even if excision were performed, and the patient survived the long and tedious process by which the enormous wound must be healed, the superiority of the preserved limb to an artificial one would, in the majority of cases, be very questionable. In other joints, if excision furnish a reasonable hope, it ought to be practised, but when we dare not excise, we must amputate. The only point remaining for consideration is the time at which amputation or excision, if deemed absolutely necessary, ought to be practised. Three stages have been described through which patients pass after wounds of joints attended with injury of bone. During the second of these, or the stage of acute in- flammation, by the general consent of sur- geons, amputation has been forbidden; but there has been a great question whether the operation be most advantageous in the first or third stage. English surgeons, with the exception of John Hunter, have long advo- cated the first stage, and the Continental sur- geons of to-day are adopting the same opinion, though many of their predecessors opposed it, and the Academy of Surgery gave its sanction to the opposition. When the amputation is performed in the first stage, that is, within twenty or thirty hours after the accident, it is called immediate ; when in the third stage, or after the lapse of several weeks, secondary. Among the advocates of secondary amputa- tion, may be mentioned Faure, who gained the prize offered for the best essay on this subject by the Academic de Chirurgie, in 1756', John Hunter, whose experience, how- ever, was not very extensive, and Lombard, professor of surgery in the Military Academy at Strasbourg. On the opposite side are found Wiseman, Le Dran, Boucher, Ranby, Larrey, Hennen, Copland Hutchinson, Guth- rie, Dupuytren, and Velpeau. It is urged by the former party, that if the patient cannot withstand the inflammation developed by the wound, neither can he sustain the shock of amputation ; that the amputation is a violence superadded to the injury, and therefore heightens the danger ; that many of those amputations which are performed on the field of battle terminate fatally. Faure quotes ten cases which, after the battle of Fontenoy, were reserved for secondary amputations, and all of which were successful. To these argu- ments it may be replied, that by amputating immediately, the character of the wound is changed ; that, instead of a ragged, lacerated wound, with sharp spicula of bone and an open cavity prone to active inflammation, we have a simple incised surface, smooth bone, and no danger of synovial inflammation ; that if patients were reserved for secondary ampu- tation, a large proportion would perish in the 1 Faure’s memoir may be found in the Prix de l’Academie de Chirurgie, tom. iii. 12mo. Paris. D D 2