FARCY. 177 not so adherent as those which cover the healthy parts. These pustules, most apparent round the nostrils, on the scrotum, the vulva, the margin of the anus, and under the tail, are hard at first, but soon soften, and in three or four days they become ulcerous and covered with a crust. Under this crust the skin is generally perforated, in such a manner as to present the appearance of a piece being punched out. On the limbs, and surface of the body, cir- cumscribed, irregular, flat tumours, of various sizes, are sometimes seen, and which I have found, on examination, to be formed of sero- sanguineous, or purulent infiltration of the subcutaneous cellular tissue. When the eruption of acute farcy is con- siderable, when it is associated with acute glanders, either primitive, or grafted on chro- nic glanders, death takes place, generally, in from one to two, or three weeks at farthest. When the eruption of acute farcy is slight, free from complication, and shows itself suc- cessively on several regions of the body, the farcinous cords pass rapidly through their different phases, disappearing at one place, and appearing at another, and thus the dis- ease, although acute in character, is protracted for several weeks on each of the parts succes- sively affected. Most commonly also, either before or after the appearance of the farcinous eruption, an engorgement of the limbs occurs, the volume and extent of which vary considerably, being at one time nothing more than a slight doughi- ness of the subcutaneous cellular tissue of the lower part of one or more of the limbs, at another, one of the hind legs swells rapidly to twice its size, assuming an elephantiac appear- ance, studded with pustules, seamed with far- cinous cords on its internal surface, and pre- senting engorgement of the lymphatic gan- glions of the groin. In the former case, the horse seems but slightly lame when he is made to trot; in the latter, he evinces pain, can scarcely move, and will not, unless impelled by violence. These local farcinous lesions are accom- panied with general symptoms of infection, particularly with acute fever and difficulty of respiration. After death, it may be readily seen that the farcinous cords are chiefly formed by bands, or fasciculi of inflamed lymphatics, the cavi- ties of which are filled with pus. The cellu- lar tissue surrounding these vessels is red, injected, infiltrated with serum, and sometimes with plastic lymph, or with true pus. The subcutaneous veins in the vicinity of these inflamed lymphatic bands are sometimes filled with solid fibrinous coagula more or less adhe- rent. I have several times observed the in- flammation of the subcutaneous veins of the lower part of the belly occurring simulta- neously with considerable farcinous eruption on the genitals, scrotum, or mammte. The lymphatic ganglions in the vicinity of the farcinous cords are swollen, injected with VOL. II. blood, with or without infiltration of pus. Neither this pus, nor that of the pustules, offers physical characters by which to distin- guish it from various other kinds of pus ; but it possesses the remarkable property of trans- mitting farcy by inoculation to the horse, ass, mule, and even to other animals. The subcutaneous cellular tissue of the scrotum, and of the sheath, is sometimes infil- trated with serum, or a sort of yellow jelly, transparent in several cases of acute farcinous glanders in the horse. I have seen the scro- tum ecchymosed and gangrenous. An examination of the swollen limbs shows the same alterations in the veins, lymphatic vessels and ganglions. The cellular tissue infiltrated with serum, more or less sanguine- ous, sometimes presents true purulent collec- tions, but more rarely than in man. The articulations in the limbs are also more rarely inflamed than in the human being. I have several times found in the synovial sheaths of the tendons, not only serum, but even pseudo- membranous deposits. Although the lymphatic vessels and gan- glions of the limbs and neck are particularly affected in acute farcy, we nevertheless fre- quently find alterations of the lymphatic gan- glions in the deep-seated parts of the neck, chest, and belly. In most of the cases that I have observed, these lesions had the appear- ances which I shall by and by describe, when 1 come to speak of chronic farcy: so that it would seem as if the acute external eruption of farcy was nothing more than the ultimate explosion of a disease already of some stand- ing. I must however add, that the majority of horses that I have seen labouring under acute farcy were also suffering from chronic glanders, the nostrils, and sometimes the larynx and trachea, presenting its characteristic le- sions. The characters of acute farcy are very stri- king, especially when the swelling of the limbs, the circumscribed tumours of the flanks, the farcinous cords, and their peculiar erup- tion, are present at the same time. But wre should not give, as some veterinary surgeons still continue to do, the name of farcy, or of the cords of farcy, to attacks of superficial angeio- leucitis or phlebitis, which are perfectly cura- ble, and have not been produced by the spe- cific cause offarcy, or of glanders. And here I should remind the reader, notwithstanding the analogy of anatomical characters, that the attacks of angeioleucitis, of phlebitis, and the purulent absorptions that occur in the solidi- pedes from wounds, setons, &c. must not be confounded with the true acute farcy, nor with the contagion of glanders. The difference of the morbid poisons establishes a difference between these affections, and particular symp- toms render them readily distinguishable from each other, both in man and in the solidipcdes. (b. 2.) Chronic farcy in the solidipedes.— In this class of animals, farcy is met more fre- quently in the chronic than in the acute state. Chronic farcy, like the acute, i3 characterized N