ANKLE. 294 As no natural boundaries circumscribe the region of the ankle, artificial ones are assigned to it; it may be said to comprehend all those parts situated two fingers’-breadth below, and the same distance above, the lowyest part of the extremity of the tibia and fibula. In this small space, objects of the highest practical interest present themselves. The diseases to which the ankle is liable are extremely nu- merous, very complicated, often highly dan- gerous, and very difficult of diagnosis. Fig. 97. Fig. 97 represents the exact form of the hones of the ankle, viewed from the external side. The subject from whom this foot was taken, was a young female adult whose limbs were extremely well formed, a, the fibula; b b, the lower extremity of the fibula or its epiphysis, the bone not being completely ossified where the transverse line passes across; c, the tibia; d d, the epiphysis or lower extremity of the tibia, the trans- verse line indicates its extent; e e e, the astragalus, which has four distinct articulations, one above, ivith the tibia, one lateral with the fibula, one below with the os calcis, and one before with the scaphoid bone; t f os calcis or heel-bone ; g, scaphoid bone ; h, the cuboid bone, which is a little out of its place ; in preparing this foot the cuboid was allowed to separate from the os calcis, it is therefore slightly depressed, and too far from the scaphoid and calcis; i, j, the third and second cuneiform bones; k, l, m, n, the metatarsal hones. As many valuable rules for the performance of surgical operations may be derived from an accurate knowledge of the outward forms of the human body, we feel it necessary to pay pecu- from the Danish ankle (not Dutch). It is rather singular that both these lexicographers should have written this last word differently and incorrectly, especially so as the one copied the other. In the Danish language the word is spelt ankel (not anckel or ankle), and, according to its present anatomical sense, always means the malleoli; it is the knochel of the German, and the cheville du pied of the French. In the Dutch it is written “ de enkel." If the word be derived from the Anglo-Saxon, it ought to he written with a c; if from the Danish with a k; at present its orthography is quite unfixed, no good reason having been given why one or the other should in preference he used; hut whether the word be of Danish or Anglo- Saxon origin, it is easy to show that anatomists have not often given a clear definition of it: we take, for instance, a very popular work on anatomy, where, at p. 6o, we read the following lines :—“ The lower head of the fibula is broad and flat, and is let pretty deep liar attention to this subject, which has not yet attracted all the attention it deserves. The reader will bear in mind that as the outward forms are easily altered by a change in the position of the parts, we shall always describe the ankle region as it is when the leg is nearly at right angles with the foot, as in the vertical and standing position, and that our description is drawn from the male adult of ordinary stature; many inaccuracies will thus be avoided, which from not having at- tended to these preliminary considerations have found their way into works which treat of this subject. The ankle region connects the leg to the foot, and presents an irregular oval form ; four projections are easily observed in this region, which may be denominated the ante- rior, the posterior, and the two lateral pro- jections. The diameter of these four oppo- site points is about equal. The anterior pro- jection is most prominent towards the inside, and is formed by the tendons of the tibialis anticus, extensor longus pollicis pedis, exten- sor digitorum pedis, and peroneus tertius muscles ; and not, as Mr. Brenan says, by the projection of the astragalus. In very muscu- lar persons a slight depression is visible to the eye between the extensor pollicis and digi- torum pedis muscles ; this depression is felt, very distinctly by the linger. On the inner side of the tibialis anticus tendon, the finger recognises a distinct hollow over which the large or internal saphena veins and nerves pass, and where the vein may be securely fixed for bleeding, especially if the pressure be directed towards the edge of the tibia. Many surgeons recommend fixing the vein against the smooth and convex surface of the internal malleole, where it generally slips away from the lancet. On the outside of the peroneus tertius tendon another slight hollow is seen, over which the external saphena vein and nerve mostly pass. If the above-named muscles be put into action, their tendons rise forwards, are much more prominent, and thus increase the antero-posterior diameter of the region. The extensor digitorum and pero- neus tertius tendons being more firmly bound down by the annular ligament, are less visible and less displaced. into a socket on the side of the tibia; together they form the ancle-joint for receiving the bones of the foot.” It is quite evident that Mr. Bell here tells us that the ankle-joint is formed by the fibula and the socket in the side of the tibia ; no doubt also, Mr. Bell intended to say, the lower part of the fibula with the lower part of the tibia form the ankle-joint. At page 68, however, our author very properly increases the number of bones to three—the tibia, fibula, and astra- galus—which is generally the definition of this joint. Weitbrecht, in his splendid Treatise on Ligaments (not yet surpassed by recent writers), which the illustrious Haller honoured by calling “insigne opus,” very pro- perly tells us that this articulation is not entirely formed by these three bones. We have followed his example; and under the term “ankle” we conrnrc- bend all those parts which contribute to strengthen this joint and region.