380 FRACTURE. as in descending stairs, the anterior muscles contract, in order to restore the equilibrium, and the extensors, acting on the patella, break it directly across *. It appears also, that in a certain position, the extensor muscles of the leg act with ex- treme force on a part, only, of the patella, and that thus very little more than the ordinary action of the extensors may be sufficient to effect a transverse fracture. The knee being slightly flexed, (half way between extension and a right angle,) the patella rests only by a part of its surface, on the condyles, and the apex projecting, unsustained, may be bent down, as it were, by the strain of the liga- mentum patellae. By this flexure of the knee, the chief stress of pressure falls on parts only of the articu- lar faces of the patella, and the strain of ex- tension operates peculiarly across the middle of its anterior surface ; that is, the ligamentum patellae on the one side, and the extensor muscles on the other, instead of drawing on the patella simply in the direction of its long axis, have a tendency to bend each end of the bone backwards ; and (as a stick is broken across the knee), the anterior surface of the bone, though strengthened by a very strong expansion of the tendons, yields transversely, and the complete division of the bone imme- diately follows. It does not appear that a crushing of the under surface, which might be expected, ever takes place in these cases. It is usually said, that when one patella is broken, there is reason to anticipate a similar accident in the fellow-bone; and experience, in a measure, proves this. The fact is imputed to the lameness resulting from the first acci- dent, and this is not to be disregarded ; but I have been led to suppose that the persons in whom both patellae become broken, (and especially if in consequence of muscular ac- tion,) must have a peculiar conformation of parts which facilitates the occurrences as I have above described. Sir A. Cooper relates the case of a young woman in whom both pa- tellae were broken transversely. Sir A. Cooper also describes the transverse fracture of a pa- tella occurring from simple muscular action, in a lady, which is not extremely rare. Such facts are rather opposed to the opinion that common muscular force, unaided, causes the fractures in question. Still, violent spasmo- dic action of the extensors, while the limb is perfectly straight, may possibly produce a transverse fracture of the patella; and the muscles may again divide the ligamentous union. It is possible, that a second accident may lead to a transverse division of one of the fragments already united by ligament. I have seen the dissection of an old injury, in which 1 Both patellae are reported to have been broken by the violent spasms of the muscles, in the constrained attitude required during the operation of lithotomy, at the Hotel Dieu: and a soldier has been known to fracture his patella in an endeavour to kick his serjeant. there were three transverse portions of bone, with two intervening ligaments, broad and strong, but near an inch in length. And I have seen another, in which there were four similar fragments united very much in the same way. We often hear or read of the two patellae havingbeen broken transversely in the same person ; but I never met with but the one instance (in a male, aet. 47), which afforded the figs. 311. All the specimens just now alluded to are in Guy’s Museum. The separation that takes place between the two fragments in transverse fractures of the patella is considerable, and very percep- tible to the fingers. In the extended position of the leg, this separation is less than when the leg is flexed ; the extensors connected with the upper portion, no longer resisted by the ligamentum patellae, being then the sole cause of separation : but in flexion of the leg, the ligamentum patellae and the lower frag- ment attached to it, accompany the motions of the leg, and thus add to the distance be- tween the fractured surfaces, already occa- sioned by the muscles. The width of the separation accompanying such fractures, varies according as the tendi- nous expansions of the muscles on either side of the patella, are more or less lacerated. In the more simple cases of fractured patella, a portion of aponeurosis may escape laceration, and limit the division of the fragments to about half an inch from one another; and this is considered to assist materially towards the cure. Sir A. Cooper states that the upper portion may be drawn five inches upwards, when the tendinous covering must of course be pro- portionately lacerated. The instance to which he refers is, probably, that of a specimen in the museum of St. Thomas’ Hospital. The parts seem to have been long repaired, if I may so speak, and a broad fascia extends from one fragment to the other, and is full five inches in length. It appears, that the violent action of the extensors, or a fall subsequent to the fracture, or the inconsiderate bending of the knee, may increase the rupture of the tendi- nous expansion, and the separation of the frag- ments. Subsequently, the yielding of the new ligament augments the separation. Diagnosis.—A transverse motion, commu- nicated to either fragment, excites pain with- out producing crepitus, as the divided sur- faces cannot touch each other. The upper fragment is the more moveable in all direc- tions. When the tumefaction attendant on the accident is considerable, the more ordi- nary symptoms may be proportionably dis- guised ; but the patient always finds it diffi- cult to stand ; and cannot walk, from the insertion of the extensors of the tibia being lost, except in a few cases, where the division of the lateral fascia is partial, and the yielding of the upper fragment is consequently much restrained. The nature of the violence, and the sudden loss of power of the extensors, the slight bending forwards of the knee, and