CALCULUS. 5G6 tute the diet of the inhabitants. In Here- fordshire and Devonshire, the solid articles of sustenance are nearly of the kind mentioned as used habitually in Norfolk ; the dumpling, however, is not so much of a staple, and in De- vonshire broth is a common addition as an article of food. In both Herefordshire and Devonshire, however, the drink is different; cider is here consumed universally, and in large quantities, a beverage which, besides water, some acetic acid when old, and alcohol, contains a considerable quantity of malic acid and super-malate of potash. Nowit is familiarly known that many fruits and their expressed juices,—the cherry, the strawberry, and the apple, among others, afford great relief in their season to persons labouring under gra- velly and calculous complaints. Linnaeus used to recover from his constitutional gout by in- dulging freely in the strawberry. Such a drink as cider, therefore, is to be viewed as essentially different in its elemen- tary constitution from the malt liquors so commonly taken as diluents in England. Vinegar as an article of diet, or disguised in malt liquor, as it invariably is when the drink is old, (and the connoisseur does not care to touch ale until it has acquired some degree of hardness or acescency from keeping,) is a most potent cause of the pre- cipitation of lithic acid from the urine. In one of the districts of England where gravel and stone, and their antecedent, lithic urine, are extremely common, namely, in the poor country between Tunbridge-Wells and Lewes, the inhabitants are poorly fed, and look thin and sallow ; but hard, i. e., stiff puddings, and hard, i. e. sour beer, are regular elements in their diet *. In some districts of the continent, where extremely thin and sharp wines are the ordinary drink of the community, as in the Prussian provinces on the Rhine, gravelly and calculous complaints are, as in cider countries, extremely rare. That particular articles of food or drink 1 It lias often struck the writer, that the addition of a sufficiency of supertartrate of potash at the time of brewing, would give ale or beer the flavour of slight hardness whilst yet young and quite free from vinc- rar, and that even when it did become acescent from keeping, its liability to occasion mischief would be materially lessened by so simple a medication. He even fancies that the inhabitants of Norfolk, acting on this hint, nfay one day find themselves delivered irom the demon in the shape of a stone which now lodges them at the heels. Brewers of malt liquors in general, would be doing well for the health of the community, if to each bushel of malt they added, before mashing, a handful of coarsely founded Gypsum. The fine wines of the Ma- charnudo Vineyard, at Xeres la Frontera, the pro- perty of the Domecq family, probably the most perfect wines in the world, are all made with this addition. The sulphate of lime seems to have the power of preventing the production of acetic acid. The superiority of well over river water for brewing, particularly for making ale that will keep long with- out turning sour, depends entirely on the sulphate of lime which it holds in solution. have immense influence in producing that, state of urine which leads to the deposition of crystalline matters, is happily illustrated by the following fact, communicated by Dr. Joshua B. Flint, of Louisville, United States, in his recent visit to this country :—Fifty years ago the city of Boston, United States, used to be noted for the frequent occurrence of stone ; there was then no practitioner of any name, who had not been repeatedly called upon to perform the operation for its removal. At the present day, however, there is but one practitioner, Dr. Warren, who has ever per- formed lithotomy, and this not more than seven or eight times in the course of a long and active professional life, and only in two instances upon resident inhabitants of the city. Calculus is now an extremely rare disease in Boston. This remarkable change Dr. Flint ascribes to the discontinuance of punch as a beverage. Fifty years ago punch was the standard drink with all classes, and on all oc- casions,—every one drank this compound of lemon-juice, rum, and sugar; but at present no one drinks punch : a skilful hand at com- pounding a bowl is hardly to be found within the precincts of the city of Boston, tripled or quadrupled as it is in the number of its inha- bitants from what it was half a century ago. Now it is quite certain that punch, of all the compounds taken into the stomach, is per- haps the most povverful in producing a state of urine which is followed by the precipitation of the lithic acid and the lithates. No country in Europe suffered so much from gravelly and calculous complaints a cen- tury ago as Holland. One lithotomist is re- ported to have performed his operation at least 2000 times. At present calculus is not a very common complaint in Holland. The change is probably owing to the substitution of tea as a universal beverage for the spirits, or spirits and water, that used in former days to be consumed in large quantities, and by all classes of the community. Whilst we admit then to its fullest extent the influence of diet on the state of the uri- nary secretion, we are not prepared to say that this influence is engendered through any de- rangement of the digestive organs in particular. Primary and habitual dyspepsia is for the most part accompanied by the discharge of pale urine that rarely deposits at all, and when it does the matter thrown down is of a kind which very rarely indeed concretes within the body so as to form gravel or the kernel of a calculus. The more sedentary habits that creep upon us as we advance in life, and the diminished necessity that is generally felt for using so much active bodily exertion as formerly, are farther causes of the occurrence of the lithic urine, so frequently met with as years roll on. Dr. Wilson Philip in his experiments 1 found, 1 Inquiry into the remote cause of Urinary Gravel. 8vo. Edinb. 1792.