AUSCULTATION. 443 This mode of diagnosis appears to have been practised at a very early period. Hippocrates, and his immediate followers, used it; but after their time it was neglected. Morgagni, in- deed, and some others speak of it, but not knowing how to explain the occurrence of sound in one instance, and its absence in another, they considered it of little use to the physician, and inconvenient to the patient. It was reserved for Laennec to point out its utility, and explain its import. There are but few cases in which succussion can elicit sound, because the combination of air and a liquid in the same cavity is a rare occurrence ; and even where it does exist, the contents may not be in sufficient quantity to render their agitation audible. Pneumothorax usually presents the necessary conditions ; so do the stomach and intestines, frequently, in their natural state ; and so may an abscess in the lung, or elsewhere. Pneumothorax most generally arises from the effusion of the contents of a tubercular abscess into the pleura ; air is furnished from a bronchial tube, and purulent fluids from the abscess, and the serous membrane. The com- bination required is here present, and the walls of the thorax are well calculated to render the sound audible. Hence it is, that in this disease succussion was first practised, .and it is still almost the only one in which it is used. When the symptoms lead us to suspect pneu- mothorax, succussion ought to be tried; and if the splash be heard, our conviction is com- plete. One or two sources of fallacy ought, however, to be guarded against; even when this pathognomonic sign is present, the peculiar sound might be caused by a tubercular exca- vation half-filled with matter. But such an abscess must be very large, and the pus must be very fluid. And a case of this kind is so rare that Laennec met with only one example of it. Even then, as abscess generally occurs at the top of the lung, and pleural collections at the base, the difficulty of distinction is greatly diminished, and may be totally re- moved by the previous history, and the other existing physical signs. It is possible that an abscess in any other situation may happen to contain air as well as pus. Such cases have occurred1, and in them succussion might be used. But they are so rare, and so likely to be marked by peculiar phenomena, that there would be no necessity for succussion to distinguish them. The Hippocratic succussion was performed thus :—the patient was placed sitting on a chair, and his arms by his side. An assistant then,laying his hands on the patient’s shoulders, gave him an abrupt and sudden shake, whilst the physician listened for the expected sound 2 * * 5. It often happens that the patient cannot be 1 There was lately in the City of Dublin IIosp. a ease in which a very large sac, close to the anu9, contained air and liquid, and when shaken gave out a splashing resonance, easily heard at the other side of the ward. 5 llip. dc Morbis, lib. ii. 45. conveniently raised to the sitting posture ; in which case we may, by laying the hands on the sides of the thorax, suddenly agitate that part sufficiently without raising the pelvis or shoulders from the bed. Very frequently the patient hears the sound himself, and can make it audible to the bystanders by a rotatory jerk of his body1. In cases of difficulty the ste- thoscope may be used to enhance the sound. II. Percussion. (Lat. pcrcussio, per and qua- tio.) This word is used to denote the act of eliciting sound from any part of the body, for the purposes of diagnosis, by gently striking with the fingers, or any other contrivance. Substances, whether animate or inanimate, on being abruptly struck, are thrown into vibrations, which give rise to sounds, and these sounds may be used to ascertain the nature of the bodies, or the state in which they then are. It is easy to judge, for example, whether the body we strike be wood or stone, whether solid or hollow', whether empty or occupied with liquid. And, if accustomed to strike any substance, and mark the result, we should be able to detect very slight alterations in its form, texture, and other circumstances; a cracked vessel may be recognized by any one ; an unsound piece of timber is at once detected by the artisan. And this principle, transferred to medicine, is the basis on which percussion rests. We may suppose, that so obvious a mode of learning the state of an organ was practised in the earliest ages of medicine. Yet there seems to be no distinct notice of it until Avenbrugger of Vienna published his essay on the subject in 1761. His book attracted little attention until Corvisart, fifty years after, translated it into French, and introduced the method into the hospitals of Paris. But it was the genius of Laennec, then the pupil of Corvisart, that bestowed on it its real importance. By com- bining its results with those of his own stetho- scope, he proved it to be a grand auxiliary in the investigation of disease, and rendered a knowledge of its use indispensable to the ju- dicious practitioner. There are two modes of using percussion ; the one by striking the part directly with the hand, or a convenient instrument ; the other by striking a solid substance laid upon the part. The former is called direct percussion, the latter mediate percussion. The chest and abdomen are the parts best fitted for per- cussion ; its application to other regions is very limited. (a) Chest. In percussing this part, we may adopt either the direct or the mediate plan. In the direct we strike with the tips of the fingers, all arranged on the same plane, and kept close together by the thumb. The nails ought to be cut short, the strokes to have a good deal of force, and be sudden, yet short of giving pain, and the motion of the hand ought to be from the wrist. The part is to be 1 Dr. Houghton’s case. Dublin Med. Jour. vol. i. 319.