DRESSING. 878 state can see things distinctly only when he closes one eye, the affection has been called Monoblepsis. The name diplopia is usually confined to those cases in which the misdirection of the eye is so slight as scarcely to attract notice, but in which, for the reason above explained, the double vision is strongly experienced by the patient. The irregular or impeded action of the muscles of the eyeball, giving rise to diplopia, may be owing to an affection of the muscles themselves or of their nerves, or it may be owing to disease or injury of the brain, or to drunkenness or fear, or to derangement of the primes vies, &c. But this is not the place to discuss the various primary affections on which the derangement of the muscles of the eye depends. It is enough to explain the nature of diplopia with two eyes, in order that, as a symptom in any particular disease, it may be appreciated at its due value. b. Double or manifold vision with a single eye. The preceding form of double vision depends, as we have seen, on a physiological cause ; this form, on the contrary, depends on a purely physical cause—on irregular refraction, though it has not been precisely ascertained which of the refractive media of the eye is at fault. “ It is probable,”says Dr. Mackenzie1 2, “that irregular formations of the cornea, or of the crystalline lens, are much more common than is generally supposed, and that few eyes, in fact, are perfectly free from them. If they are very considerable, they may be detected by the observer’s watching the progress of a can- dle in front of the patient’s eye, and noticing the appearances of the three reflected images '*. The patient may detect them by closing one eye, and directing the other to a very narrow well-defined luminous object, not too bright, (the horns of the moon, when a slender cres- cent, only two or three days old, are very pro- per for the purpose,) and turning the head in various directions. The line will be doubled, tripled, multiplied, or variously distorted ; and careful observation of its appearance, under different circumstances, may lead the patient to a knowledge of the peculiar conformation of the refracting surfaces of the eye which causes those appearances, and may suggest the proper remedy. M. Prevost, at the age of 81 years, pub- lished 3 an interesting account of his own case of double vision with a single eye, which he thought might arise from a fracture, bruise, or partial flattening of the lens, or separation of its laminae. M. Prevost also communicated with Mr. Babbage, who is affected in either eye singly with double vision, a defect, how- 1 Practical Treatise on the Diseases of the Eye. 3d Ed. p. 795. London, 1341, 2 See Catoptrical examination of the Eye in article Cataract, p. 713. 3 Annalcs de Chimie et de Physique, Tome LI. p. 210; Palis, 1832. ever, which he finds himself able to remedy by looking through a small hole in a card, or through a concave lens.” In most presbyopic persons Dr. Arnott has ascertained double vision in either eye singly to exist in a slight degree, and he has discovered that it may be entirely obviated by having the glasses of the spectacles so placed, that the axes of the eyes may fall upon them more or less obliquely. Vision is at the same time rendered very much more distinct. (T. Wharton Jones.') DIRECTOR. Itinerarium, Lat. sonde cannelce, Fr. Leitungsinstrument, Ger. This instrument is a long thin grooved blade of silver or steel, and is in common use in sur- gical operations as a guide to our incisions, especially in deep-seated parts. In cutting down upon an artery, or a hernial sac, the intervening tissues are raised layer after layer upon the director, and thus securely divided with a bistoury. In laying open a sinus, as soon as the director is properly placed for the purpose, the parts are divided upon it at one stroke. Counter-openings for the exit of pus are made in the same maimer. DISLOCATION, from dislocare, to dis- place. In a limited sense, this term has been applied, and improperly so, to the displace- ment by violence of the articular surfaces of bones from their natural situations. See Lux- ation. DISPLACEMENT. See Ectopia. DISTICHIASIS, ciq, twice; otixoq, a row. Literally, this word means a double row of eyelashes, but there is properly no real dis- tinction between it and Trichiasis. See En- tropium and Trichiasis. DIVISION.Siaipeoj, Gr.; Dursckschneidung, Ger. The mechanical division of parts em- braces a wide range of surgery, and is effect- ed chiefly by means of sharp or blunt instru- ments, acting by section, laceration, ligation, or avulsion. Caustic substances are also em- ployed in some instances to effect division, or solution of continuity. In its ordinary sense it means the reverse of re-union; but, in its most extensive acceptation, it includes incision by means of cutting instruments, sections by means of saws, scissors, &c., and perforation by means of the trephine, gouge, or chisel. DRESSING. The mode of applying to injured or diseased parts such local means as are calculated to promote their reparation ; preventing the access of air, or the contact of irritating substances; preserving the parts from great variations of temperature; excit- ing languid granulations, and repressing their exuberant growth. In the present day dress- ing is become reduced to very simple propo- sitions, the digestive cerates, drying unguents, and varied plasters of the old school, having