ARTICULATIONS. 40 the head of the hone, and indicated by a train of most alarming symptoms, to which Sir B. Brodie has called the attention of the profes- sion, or assuming a chronic form, and slowly advancing to the state of confirmed caries. Beclard says that by this cause a separation of the shaft from the epiphyses is sometimes produced in young subjects, and the observa- tions of Pott and Bromfield confirm the asser- tion. By far the most frequent disease, how- ever, to which the articular extremities of bones are liable, is the inflammation and caries which depend upon scrofula, and which may not unreasonably be supposed to be connected with a deposit of tubercular matter in the cancelli of the bone. “ Scrofulous diseases of joints,” says Pott, “ often commence in the very inmost recesses of the cellular texture of the heads of bones. In examining a joint in the early stage of this affection, we discover no trace of morbid change in the ligaments, cartilage, or synovial membrane, but on making a section of the bone it is found to present none of the cellular cavities proper to its normal state ; and the striae of bone which ought to be seen traversing its structure are indiscernible. An unbroken or granular surface is presented of a pale yellow colour, and the structure of the bone is softer than natural. At a more ad- vanced period of the disease, this structure I begins to soften down and ulcerate, the liga- ments lose their connection with the bone, in consequence of the spread of the ulcerative process, the synovial membrane takes on a chronic inflammatory action, and the carti- lage begins to be detached. At a still later period, abscesses form in and around the joint, which opens externally by long fistulous tracks ; no trace remains of the ligamentous tissue; the synovial membrane has become so altered in character, that its peculiar fea- tures are no longer discernible ; the greater portion of the cartilage is removed ; the head of the bone is deeply excavated by ulceration, and so soft that it may be divided with a knife. The appearance of the remaining cartilage in this state of things is so peculiar, that it may almost be regarded as diagnostic of the dis- ease. The removal of the cartilage com- mences on its attached surface, and it is not uncommon to see a flake of cartilage sup- ported by its continuity with other portions of cartilage, over-hanging the diseased and excavated bone. On taking hold of a portion of this tissue it may be easily detached in flakes of considerable size from the bone be- neath, which is dark, ulcerating, and denuded. In the cases of ordinary inflammation, such as are cited by Key, Mayo, and Gerdy, either granulations, by which the removal of the cartilage is supposed to be effected, are thrown out from the osseous surface, or the cellular membrane interposed between the cartilage and the bone, invisible in the healthy state, becomes highly developed and vascular ; but in scrofulous caries the bone seems altogether incapable of this action, and presents, as al- ready mentioned, a dark and denuded sur- face. A large proportion of the cases form- erly termed white swelling, were undoubt- edly of this class, as may be readily seen by referring to the excellent practical work of Crowther; and from the similarity of the at- tendant symptoms, it is not unfair to presume that the pathology of the morbus coxarius in young subjects is not widely different. Un- der the head, therefore, of articular osteitis, comprehending, in addition to the ordinary form of inflammation, that also which rapidly induces the death of the tissue and that pecu- liar lesion, which results from scrofula, we may legitimately include many of the dis- eases to which articulations are liable. ‘2. Fibro-cartilage.—This tissue established by Bichat, and termed by Beclard cartilaginiform ligament, is met with principally in joints of the second order, in which it forms the chief bond of union between the bones, though occa- sionally occurring as an accessory structure in joints of the third or more complex form. It is composed of fibrous and cartilaginous tissues, usually disposed with more or less regularity in alternating masses. Vessels have been traced into the substance of fibro-cartilage, but under ordinary circumstances they are not discernible ; and the tissue, both in its physical properties, its low degree of organi- zation, and its morbid appearances, presents a close resemblance to cartilage. Its diseases are very obscure, and much yet remains to be done towards elucidating them. When divided it re-unites, as is seen after the ope- ration of symphysiotomy. Under certain circumstances we find it unusually developed, as when, for example, in consequence of sub- sided caries or disease in the intervertebral substance, a lateral curvature of the spine takes place. Bony ankylosis ensues on the compressed side, but on the opposite side the intervertebral substance becomes stretched and elongated. “ The fibro-cartilages,” says Velpeau1, “may imbibe fluids, and we some- times see them swollen so as to produce a considerable separation between the bones which they unite thus the symphysis pubis separates, to a small extent, at the time of delivery. Delpech2 has noticed a sort of w hite swelling commencing in this tissue, and affirms that hydarthrosis may take place in the fibro-cartilaginous articulations. Ulcera- tion is not a very uncommon occurrence in them. “ In two instances,” says Mr. Porter3, “ I have seen the intervertebral substance eroded at the anterior edge, the bodies of the adjacent vertebrae remaining unaltered in shape or consistence, and to every appearance in a perfectly healthy state.” In the Museum of Guy’s Hospital is a preparation in which the bodies of two vertebrae, entire in all their parts, and healthy, are completely separated from one another, by destruction of the inter- 1 Anatomie Chirurgicale. 2 Precis Elementaire, &c, 3 Cyclopaedia of Anatomy and Physiology, art. Bone.