441- AUSCULTATION. kept tense by the operator’s other hand, or by the position of the patient. If the back of the thorax be under examination, the patient leans forward, stoops his head, and crosses his arms. If the front of the chest, the arms may be thrown back, and the chin raised. If the side, then the corresponding arm is to be raised, and so on. Different parts of the chest give out very different sounds in health. These differences must be attended to—for a sound which might be called healthy in one part would mark dis- ease in another. The front of the thorax is clear, when percussed on both sides above ; in the middle it is a little dull on the left side; and below it is a little dull on the right, and usually clearer on the left than at the top of the lung. The situations of the heart, the liver, and the stomach explain these varieties. On the posterior and lateral regions both sound alike, except at the lower part, where the liver causes a dulness on the right side, and the stomach a clearness on the left. More may be learned by comparing the sounds of opposite sides than in any other way. In regions which ought to be equally clear the slightest shade of difference often leads to the detection of formidable disease. This we see exemplified in early phthisis, when no physical sign can be made out except a little more dulness at the top of one lung than of the other. But in order to be sure that there is a difference, the utmost care must be taken in percussing. We must use the same force—we must strike cor- responding points—we must have the line of our fingers either across the rib in both, or along the rib in both—and we must even take similar periods of the respiration, as the chest is more sonorous when filled by inspiration than after expiration. It is better to percuss the ribs than the intercostal spaces ; the sound is clearer, and the pain to the patient less. On the back direct percussion is of little use, except along the angles of the ribs, on account of the beds of muscles. The interposition of a thin dress, as the patient’s shirt, is recommended by Aven- brugger and Laennec. It takes away the clatter of the fingers against the skin, and gives the patient less annoyance. Aven- brugger also recommends a glove to be used with the same view. Laennec when percussing the back generally used the side of the stetho- scope instead of his fingers. His cylindrical instrument answered very well for this pur- pose, but our light trumpet-shaped one would never do. The knuckle may sometimes be substituted for the fingers on the clavicle. Although very generally the ends of the fingers ought to be used, yet the pulpy/ronAs of them may, in some cases, be employed with advantage. By gently tapping with them the state of the walls can be better ascertained, as the force is not enough to make the interior vibrate. In this way a cavity in the lung, with its wall adhering to the thoracic parietes, may sound dull, whilst a more forcible stroke w-ould bring out a morbidly clear sound. Direct percussion is more easily studied on the chest than elsewhere, and this has induced the writer to enter more into its details, in the foregoing section, than might seem necessary for the purposes of surgery. The rules laid dowrn may be transferred with little change to percussion in other organs. Mediate percussion is the term used to de- note percussion when practised with a solid plate of some kind interposed between the fingers and the affected part. The dress or a glove may be interposed in the direct, some- thing more solid is required in the mediate form. M. Piorry who introduced the method uses a plate of ivory which he calls plessimeter and on this, laid flat, and pressed against the part, he strikes so as to elicit the required sound. In this country the ivory plate is sel- dom used, but some substitute generally is, as a flat piece of Indian rubber, or piece of thick leather. Others 2 use a long piece of ivory, like a very thin paper-cutter, to one side of which a thin layer of elastic gum is fastened; the ivory surface is laid on the chest. Others again lay the first finger, or the first two fingers of the left hand, on the chest, as a pleximeter, and strike them with the right. This last is probably the best of the expe- dients. The fingers are ever ready for use, never left behind in mistake ; they do not encumber with an additional instrument; they are usually of the proper temperature, create no clatter when struck, are composed of the same materials as the thoracic parietes, and accommodate themselves most conveniently to the inequalities of the surface. Some lay the back of the fingers on the chest, some the front. Piorry states many advantages which mediate percussion has over direct. 1st. Less pain is occasioned because the shock is inter- rupted and diffused, the force of impulse need not be so great, and it is applicable even where the surface has been irritated by blisters or ointments. 2nd. Direct percussion will scarcely cause any appreciable sound where a part is thickly covered with fat, muscle, gland, or effused fluids ; yet under all these circum- stances mediate percussion may be used with advantage. 3rd. Less art is required in ar- ranging the fingers of the right hand, and less care in regulating the force and direction of the stroke 3. (b) Abdomen.—Percussion of this cavity has been practised in all ages, arid a judgment thereby formed of its contents. Hence the use of the word tympanitis in the oldest authors. But we are indebted to M. Piorry for direct- ing attention to this mode of diagnosis in many diseased states of the abdominal viscera which 1 TrXiiPis pcrcussio, ulitpov modus. 2 Dr. Marsh. 3 See the works of Piorry, “ Dc la Percussion Me- diate.” Par. 1828, and “ Du Precede Operatoirc a suivre dans P Kxploration des Organs par la Percussion Mediate.” 1830.