385 FRACTURE. but instead of having her leg moved, to move it herself. This she could not in the least effect at first. I considered, however, that the power of contraction which the muscles possess beyond that necessary for the mere purpose of extending and flexing the limb, as mentioned above, is probably obtained by the mind’s influence on the muscle ; and that, in this case, if the influence of the mind was frequently exerted on the muscle, it would give this power of contraction l, in which it would probably be aided by the interstitial absorption taking place, and actually shorten- ing the muscle, and suiting its length to the office it was to perform. I therefore advised her ladyship to repeat her exercise as often as she could every day for a month, assuring her, that if at the end of the month she had obtained the least power of motion, I had not a doubt that she would again be able to walk, by a regular exercise of the muscle. The event proved as fortunate as I could wish, the lady at the end of three or four months being able to walk, although she had not walked for years2.” Sir A. Cooper relates the following case :— “ A young woman was brought into my house in her father’s arms, and he said, ‘ I am obliged to carry her, for she has lost the use of her legs, having broken both her knee-pans eight months ago, and she has never been able to use her limbs since.’ Passive motion was directed, and she was ordered to try to extend her legs after they had been bent by the surgeon. At first she could effect but little ; however, by repeated trials she gra- dually recovered the use of her limbs. Mr. John Hunter, who raised surgery into a science, and who seems to have been the first who attended to the principles on which the practice of surgery ought to be regulated, always dwelt most ably upon this subject in his lectures. Patients, from the pain which passive motion produces, and the slow return of action in the muscles, are indisposed to suffer the one or to make trials of the other ; but without them there can be no recovery.” The practitioner must distinguish, first, the state of the new ligament; secondly, the ac- tual pow'er of the muscle, or its weakness ; and lastly, what belongs to the freedom or constriction of the joint. After some inflam- mation, and a strictly extended posture of the knee, maintained for several weeks, some force to induce extension may be required ; but I think it is the last thing necessary. Some of the foregoing points may be re- garded as theoretical rather than practical, and rather critical than useful ; but I do not doubt that a due attention to them may both improve and expedite the reparation of the injuries in question, and even increase the number of examples of ossific reunion. That transverse fracture of the patella may have osseous reunion, is evident from unequi- ’ Sec p. 209 of this vol. a Sec Lectures on the Principles of Surgery, edited by Mr. Palmer. VOL. II. Fig. 334. Anterior view of a patella, with the tendon attached to it above and below. The middle transverse band was of new bone, even and chose ; while the remainder of the surface was lilee the ordinary aspect of this part of the patella. The two dark fissures indicate spots where ossification had been defective. Figs. 335. Posterior view of the patella. The apex of the bone is seen below, with the ligamentum patellae attached. The articular surface is circumscribed by a broad band, which was a more recently-adapted surface of contact than some of the other parts. Within are seen three C c