CATHETER ISM. 742 force communicated to it. It should not be held stiffly. The operator, if he be not ex- pert, must not be too eager to direct it, but rather abandon it a good deal to itself. The surgeon who does so, even though he should be all but inexperienced in the matter, will rarely meet with difficulties; he who does not, will create them where they really ought not to exist. The weight of the catheter will be found a trustworthy accomplice in assisting its own introduction, and the single index linger will be often all-sufficient to urge the handle of the catheter, if the “ mind’s eye” directs the bee. A practised hand will never fail to strike the opening of the isthmus, and following up the manoeuvre, hook the pubis with the con- cavity of the catheter. But before the hand is familiarized with the movement above-men- tioned, it is barely possible that the bee of the instrument may not take the entrance of the muscular part of the urethra so fairly; in which case, the bee is stopped by some point of the rim of the opening of the triangular ligament, or still remains in the depression of the bulb. When this happens, the catheter should be withdrawn a little, or even may be replaced in the same position over the right thigh, as when its bee first arrived in the bulb ; the movement of lifting it from the thigh, and inclining it backwards between the thighs, should then be repeated, and the bee carried onward on a higher level, pressing against the upper surface of the canal. But above all, in the attempt to enfilade the eye of the triangular ligament, we should be anxiously careful at the same moment to bring its lower edge as level with the floor of the bulb, and its upper edge as even with the whole upper surface of the urethra as possible, by pressing with the fingers of the left hand down the face of the pubis ; this movement is of the utmost importance, and indeed may be re- garded as indispensable, whether for curvi- linear or rectilinear catheterism, to the unin- terrupted and easy passage of the bee of the instrument, from the moveable to the fixed. portion of the urethra. If, again, this attempt should prove unsuccessful, we should examine the perineum, calm the patient’s mind, if he should be unusually alarmed or agitated, and stay proceeding for a little while. Authors affirm that the bulbo-cavernous muscles, and the muscles of the fixed portion of the canal, will often render the progress of the instru- ment impossible. I have no doubt the bulbo- cavernous, as well as the other muscular struc- tures of the urethra, under certain conditions, do act independently of the control of the will, and consequently they may be the seat of spasmodic action. This I firmly believe, but I, at the same time, as firmly reject the idea of spasmodic, or exaggerated vital action in these muscles, being an obstacle to any con- siderable, much less to an invincible extent, to the passage of a catheter. From long ex- perience on this point, I am much more in- clined to find an explanation of the stoppage of the catheter, in the bad direction of its bee, or in the existence of an obstacle of more permanent nature than in the spasmodic action of these parts. I have passed instruments for the first time, on persons of the most excitable habit, and alarmed to the last degree at what they imagined they must suffer from the ope- ration—persons in whom all docility, and all command of themselves, were paralysed through sheer terror ; these conditions might be fairly considered as favourable to the highest de- velopment of spasm, yet, if the bee of the in- strument was properly directed, it has not been arrested by the violent, involuntary action of the muscles : besides, if it were true that spasm often impeded the catheter in the male subject, it ought to be, at least, equally frequent in the female, in consequence of the equally strong muscularity of the parts ; but this we know is not the case. The proper direction of the female catheter is sufficient to secure its sure penetration into the bladder, whatever be the force of spasm in the female urethra, to oppose its progress, and both from reasoning and fact, I am strongly of opinion that the cases are analogous, in respect to the facility of passing instruments, even though the urethral muscles should be excited to the maximum of their action. Involuntary con- tractions of these muscles do certainly occur, but they are not sufficient of themselves alone, without complication of any other sort or kind, to prevent the passage of a well-directed instrument. But we were stating what the surgeon should do when the bee could not be made to enter the aperture of the triangular ligament. He assures himself at a glance, that the ca- theter is in the proper direction, and allows the patient to repose for a short time, while he keeps the bee of the instrument steadily pressed against the orifice of the muscular portion, which will speedily admit the bee of the instrument, if it be well-directed. We cannot encourage the practitioner to support or draw up the perineum, with the palm and fingers of the left hand, while he is moving the handle of the catheter upwards and down- wards between the thighs; it is altogether unnecessary, and sometimes very painful. With the rules given above, and a little patience, every tiling will be accomplished quietly, and to his entire satisfaction. If he cannot proceed any farther with the catheter he had first chosen, he should with- draw it, and try another, larger or smaller, more or less curved than the first, as circum- stances may seem to him to demand. The practised hand may care little what the degree of curve may be ; but the advantages to be derived from change of instrument are these, that a larger one will expand and efface the folds of the urethra better, or if that should not be the favourable condition required, a smaller one may be allowed to pass, compara- tively unfelt and unimpeded, where the first was peremptorily arrested. Choice may also be advantageously made of a gum elastic ea-