FRACTURE. 370 Fig. 325. Fig. 325. Fracture of the neck of the femur with liga- mentous union. a, Head of the femur. h, Trochanters. c, Thickened capsule of the joint. d, Line of compact ligamentous matter, uniting the head and body of the femur. e, Cancellated cavity of tlui shaft. A female, at. 66, fell on the ground. The limb ivas found shortened two incites and a half and everted. She died at the end of the fifth month from the time of the accident. The capsule was found thickened ; the round ligament toasted to a few shreds, and de- tached from the femur; the neck of the bone had disappeared. The interspace of the fragment teas very slight superiorly. This case is most probably one of fracture near the tro- chanters, since the most natural circumstances appear to be absorption, in consequence of the nutrition being cut of. The round ligament often wastes or disap- pears in such cases; and the head remains to fill the cavity, because it is rendered mechanically incapable (so to speak) of collapsing in consequence of its situa- tion in the midst of unyielding walls. The case is related by Mr. Howship, in the Med.-Chir. Trans- actions (vol. xix. case 8). The drawing is in my possession. round ligament, and little or no reunion, or even repair, were pretty generally remarkable — Fig. 325, however, represents one of the above. Mr. H. takes no notice of any osseous reparation in his cases. Fig. 309 may again deceive the observer. The upper synovial cavity is probably an ad- ventitious bursa against the trochanter; and even the new synovial cell in the neck of the femur may be whol- ly a gradual forma- tion. The ligament between the two cavities seems only a vestige of origi- nal capsule, or pe- riosteum. There are un- questionable cases of old fracture of the cervix femoris without any union, in every museum. Sir A. Cooper early recorded upwards of forty, and, doubt- less,saw many more subsequently; they might probably be reckoned by hun- dreds ; while the supposed cases of bony, or even liga- mentous reunion are scarcely to be counted by tens, and those in vari- ous degrees doubt- ful. We should de- mand of those who are most confident about the latter, to show the early and partial stages of this union ; but even these are wanting; because, it is alleged, they are so slowly produced. Mr. Mayo gives two cases, exemplifying the appearances usually found on dissection ; and observes, “ there are features in them which make it sufficiently clear, that the ab- sence of bony union does not result from imperfect nutrition, or inadequate supply ot blood to the separated portion K” Mr. Mayo “ believes the process of ossifi- cation to be extremely slow. Such instances occur in those only who are not greatly ad- vanced in life at the time of the fracture, and in whom, through the care with which the joint is kept at rest, direct union by soft sub- stances takes place between the separated portions. Nothing, in truth, is then wanted for the restoration of the part but time.” How long will it not be before all these happy concomitants are met with? The injury is rare before advanced life; the care to keep the joint at rest is rarely availing; and the soft union which precedes ossification for a length of time, is at least but little known. Does not ligamentous union preclude the ossific? None of the preparations examined by Mr. Crosse, in the museums of Paris, seem to have afforded him one satisfactory instance of bony union occurring after fracture of the neck of the femur within the capsule. 1 Outlines of Human Pathology.