615 CANCER, PHYSIOLOGY OF. black matter, any others in the body are al- most invariably found similarly discoloured : this fact, to which much importance has been attached, simply proves that there is a ten- dency in the system to the production of melanic matter. Again, Cruveilhier lays much stress on the circumstance that “ melanic can- cer” is rarely solitary : this is the necessary result of the fact, that black or bistre-coloured impregnation much more frequently compli- cates encephaloid than the other species of carcinoma. The French pathologist has not thought of proving, numerically, that such multiplicity of growth is less frequent when the encephaloid is of normal than of abnormal colour. See Melanosis. A partial or general yellowish tint is some- times produced in carcinoma, either, as in cases referred to by Laennec and Dr. Graves, by impregnation with the colouring matter of the bile ; or, as is more usual, by the changes undergone by the diseased mass in the vicinity of effused blood, resembling those observed in subcutaneous ecchymosis and cerebral hae- morrhage. Dr. Hodgkin expresses his belief, that the yellow tint occurs in the oldest parts of these growths; a remark which we have not seen confirmed. But there is much just- ness in the observation, that encephaloid thus discoloured bears some resemblance to tuber- culous matter ; a similarity which has caused the former to be sometimes mistaken for the latter. In certain cases the origin of the yel- low tinge is difficult to specify. The partial conversion of cancer into bony matter is a phenomenon much spoken of by wri- ters. Ossification, commencing with the cen- tral portion of scirrhous tumours and spread- ing thence to their periphery, is said to con- vert the whole mass of some scirrhi into bone. M. Trousseau states that he has frequently ob- served this mutation in bitches ; and Dr. Hodgkin instances scirrhi of the uterus, as being especially prone, in the human subject, to such conversion. The septa, or enclosing pseudo-cyst of encephaloid are represented as occasionally undergoing osseous transforma- tion, and M. Cruveilhier speaks of spheroidal ossiform concretions discovered in colloid of the muscular coat of the stomach. But we believe that, if we here exclude from conside- ration the bony lamell® actually continuous with some part of the skeleton, and which form a marked characteristic of certain can- cers connected with osseous structure, the phenomenon in question will be found to have been much more written of than observed. Dr. Hodgkin’s opinion above stated is easily explained by the fact that he regards the well known “ fibrous tumours ” of the uterus as true scirrhus of that organ : and it is incorrect to term the matter developed in these cases bone, of which tissue it has not been proved to possess the structural or chemical charac- ter.' That cretaceous or calcareous matter is ' Gluge lias shown that the lamellar productions in the arteries, which arc called ossifications, and which, occasionally seen in carcinoma is nevertheless incontrovertible, and we have already alluded to its probable source. Dr. Hodgkin considers osseous formations comparatively more rare in encephaloid than in scirrhus, and attributes this to the greater vitality of the former ; Breschet regards “conversion into bone or cartilage” as affording evidence of excessive activity of nutrition in the transformed part: no proof is adduced of either opinion. Cartilaginiform substance has rarely been found in cancer. Rouzet reports a case from Leeomte1, in which cartilaginous productions were found scattered through a scirrhus of the breast in the form of little round masses or acicular figures ; but the true nature of these may be made a matter of doubt. Muller states that fatty matter is frequently seen in scirrhus, and that while the fat in true fatty tumours is contained in their formative globules, that occurring accidentally in carcinoma is free, and appears in the form of granules or crys- talline particles. Bayle describes a specimen of pulmonary encephaloid containing tuberculous matter, dis- tinguishable from the cancerous texture by its yellow opaque appearance : there were tuber- culous cavities in other parts of the affected lung. Admitting, however, that the substance presumed to be tuberculous was really of that nature, and not encephaloid accidentally dis- coloured (as was clearly the case in some of the instances referred to by M. Cruveilhier), it does not appear from the description whe- ther the centre of the tumour was formed before or after the surrounding carcinoma. Andral speaks of tumours of the liver formed of a combination of encephaloid, scirrhus, and crude tubercle ; Cruveilhier has figured a composite growth in connexion with the kid- ney, formed of a layer of encephaloid, invest- ing a large mass of “ tuberculous ” matter ; but such facts at the most only prove the occasional association of these morbid pro- ducts. It not unfrequently happens that a tumour possessing the characters of scirrhus in the main, discovers in some portion of its substance those of softened encephaloid. This circum- stance has been adduced as proving that scirrhus may soften into encephaloid, and hence, as an unanswerable argument in favour of the identity of cancerous tissues, ab origine. But may it not depend on the development of encephaloid as a new product in the scirrhous mass ? This is a mere hypothesis, it is true ; but one more reconcileable with ascertained facts, than the notion that these structures are primitively identical. It surely will not be in fact, possess more of the outward characters of bony tissue than most abnormal ossiform formations, are com- posed of microscopical saline crystals, united into a patch by albumen or fibrine. Between this elementary at- tempt at ossification and the new formation of true bone, as demonstrated by Miescher, there are nume- rous gradations.—Bull, de l'Acad. Roy. de Bnucelles, Avril, 1838, p. 192. 1 Journ. de Med. t. 73, 1787.