81 AMAUROSIS. In the last stage of the disease, the general redness diminishes in the conjunctiva and sclerotica, but the principal vessels of the for- mer become larger, more tortuous, and of darker colour ; the pupil becomes more dila- ted and fixed ; the opacity of the humours in- creases, and complete lenticular cataract is formed, which has, however, nearly always some green tinge. These changes are effected sometimes in forty-eight hours, and but seldom require more than four or five days for their completion. General Symptoms.—Retinitis I believe al- ways to be a consequence of some material derangement of the general or constitutional power, under which the balance of the circu- lation is easily disturbed ; thus, in the history of these cases, it is usually found that the patient has been complaining, or has been ob- served, by those immediately about him, to have been unwell for some time previous to the burst of retinal inflammation. These general symptoms, however, become more manifest when the local disease is developed, and new symptoms present themselves as con- sequences of the retinitis. Previously to the attack, there is generally lowness of spirits, despondency, loss of appe- tite, irregular state of bowels, disturbed sleep, or unusual heaviness and torpor, with head- ache ; a loaded tongue, clammy mouth, and sometimes feeling of nausea; the extremities are cold, and there is a disinclination to mental or bodily exercise. The severity of the local disease rouses the system ; the patient becomes restless and watchful ; the surface and extre- mities are unusually hot and dry; the face flushed ; the pulse is quick and sharp,—in some patients, hard and wiry, in others easily compressible; the tongue is more loaded, the mouth parched, and nausea, with much thirst, is experienced. The local and general symp- toms are aggravated by the recumbent pos- ture. Progtiosis is always unfavourable ; in the majority of instances the disease makes such rapid progress, that the surgeon has not time to apply remedies to arrest its disorganizing effects ; and in those cases in which he has opportunity to use his remedies, and even succeeds in arresting the disease so as to pre- serve a useful degree of vision, the patient is subject to relapse from such trivial causes that he seldom retains vision for more than a few months, but fresh attacks of inflammation com- plete the organic change, and destroy the functions of the retina. The disease which I have described is rarely met with in persons under the middle period of life ; is most frequent between the ages of forty-five and sixty, though often seen in per- sons of more advanced age. It is more com- mon in females than in males, and is almost confined to persons having dark irides. I have, however, seen exceptions. It attacks sometimes one eye first, but more frequently both together, though not to the same extent; or it runs through its course with greater ra- voi.. i. pidity in one eye than in the other. When it appears only in one eye it will most probably appear in the other, unless the greatest caution be used. I have seen this disease most frequently in persons of sanguine tem- perament, with dark complexions and spare figures ; or in those who have a large and soft frame, with indolent circulation, but much nervous irritability. Causes.—The predisposing causes of this af- fection, are such as derange any of the more important functions, and tend to disturb or de- stroy the balance of the circulation, and ot nervous power ; but especially such as at the same time depress or exhaust general power. Excess of mental labour, or mental anxiety alone, are sufficient to produce the effect; but they are particularly prone to do so when operating on a system in which disturbance has been already excited, as during a change in, or arrest of, uterine action; or from the arrest of long-standing morbid discharge from a natural secreting surface upon a sore ; or, further, in consequence of the cessation of fre- quent and habitual haemorrhage, either ute- rine, haemorrhoidal, or nasal. Again, during suppressed gout. The exciting causes are over exertion of the organ, the influence of bright light, exposure to cold and damp; but I have often known the disease commence without being able to detect any particular cause as immediately inducing it. I have seen a few instances in which slight injury has called forth the morbid action. The most rapidly destructive and distressing cases that I have witnessed have occurred during great mental anxiety and distress ; as in the elderly female from loss of husband or child; and in the male from sudden loss of property and comfort, in consequence of im- prudent speculations, or from the deceit of one previously esteemed and valued. Treatment.—Although acute retinitis occa- sions such rapid disorganization, (by implicat- ing other textures,) and annihilates the func- tion of the organ in many cases; yet in some, the disease may be checked, and some useful degree of vision preserved for months, or perhaps years ; and when only one eye is at- tacked, the fate of the second, I believe, much depends upon careful management. The first object of treatment is to arrest the disorganizing action, and lessen or relieve suf- fering ; the most powerful and proper agents to effect this are bleeding, mercury, and nar- cotics ; but much judgment and care are ne- cessary in their employment, or more evil than good will result, from the two former especially. The force of general vascular action is, in these cases, usually below par, and general abstraction of blood is therefore not only un- necessary, but even likely to prove injurious; it should never be resorted to whilst the pulse is easily compressible,—only when it is hard and incompressible; and then very cautiously. Even local bleeding, by cupping-glass or leeches, must be cautiously employed when