387 ARTERIES. ALTERATIONS OF. pearance of a ring, or if more extensive, of a hard cylinder, through the centre of which the vessel passes. It would seem, therefore, that the yellow patches undergo two different kinds of transformation, the ulcerous and the osseous ; the latter, however, ought not, as Haller and Morgagni imagined, to be con- sidered as a transformation, but rather as a simple deposition of phosphate of lime, oc- curring in the soft yellow matter, which, as Mr. Guthrie expresses it, forms its nidus. But notwithstanding an undoubted differ- ence of origin, the cartilaginous patches may be found in the same spot simultaneously with the ulcerous softening of the middle tunic, and the osseous concretions, and indeed their co- existence is by no means unfrequent. It is on this account, that some authors have sup- posed that the cartilaginous concretions were sometimes transformed into the osseous. On a careful examination, however, the error may be detected, as the ossification is never found, even beneath the white patches, with- out being surrounded by the yellow matter. When these lesions occur in vessels of small size, the atheromatous matter is often so abundant, as to thrust the cartilaginous patches towards the axis of the vessel, thus diminish- ing its calibre, while at the same time it at- tenuates the middle tunic sometimes to a con- siderable degree, by the pressure which it makes upon it *. The effects thus produced upon the large and small arterial tubes, are very differ- ent ; in the small ones, the albuminous secre- tion will tend to their obliteration, not so much from its own nature, as from the abun- dance of atheromatous matter, the deposition of which, in some cases, it seems to determine between the two internal tunics : obliterations of this kind are sometimes seen in the arteries of the inferior extremities. In the large ves- sels, on the other hand, the extensive develop- ment of the cartilaginous patches produces a different effect. Here, though the deposition of the atheromatous matter is in proportion less abundant, it involves more completely almost the entire thickness of the middle tunic, and hence the elasticity of the vessel is impaired, in the first place, by the extensive disorganiza- tion of the fibro-elastic coat; and in the second, by the development of the cartila- ginous layer, which is itself inelastic. The large vessels in this state are reduced to the condition of almost inert tubes ; their coats yield to the distending force, but are inca- pable of contracting again, and this doubtless will account for those considerable dilatations of the arch of the aorta, which are observed to occur without any aneurismal tumour. M. Bizot had met but one case in which the middle coat was completely destroyed. The subject was a female forty-five years of age. The internal surface of the aorta was studded with cartilaginous patches, and there were several small aneurismal tumours on its 1 Mr. Hodgson mentions a case in which he found the emulgent and femoral arteries thus obliterated from the great quantity of the atheromatous matter. external surface. On examining these tumours, the cavity was found lined with a thin mem- brane which was in contact with the cellular coat; the latter appearing almost transparent, and quite healthy', but the middle coat had entirely disappeared. M. Bizot, although he assents to the received opinion that the oc- currence of aneurism is intimately connected with the morbid alterations of arteries, and the application of occasional causes, such as falls, blows, fits of passion, &c. nevertheless thinks, that other causes, the nature and action of which are still unknown, may operate in its production. He justifies himself in pro- pounding this idea, on the observation of a fact, which we shall notice by and by, and which he terms the symmetry which seems sometimes to preside in the development of these morbid alterations. Alterations peculiar to the arteries of the limbs:—These first appear as minute stains ; they adhere to the middle tunic, and can- not be torn off with the lining membrane. Becoming multiplied they extend round the artery like a zone, and seem to be slightly depressed below the general surface of the cavity of the vessel ; their adhesion to the middle tunic is so firm, that they cannot be separated from it, like the yellow patches in the large arteries, when we tear off a shred of the lining membrane. The fibres of the mid- dle tunic at these points appear to be yellower, harder, thinner, less pliant, and more resist- ing. The transformation commencing imme- diately beneath the lining membrane, which it never affects, extends outwards through the layers of the middle tunic. The fibres at length are changed into depressed osseous, lines, which uniting, complete the entire circle of the vessel, and extend to various lengths upwards and downwards along its course. When the ossification of the middle tunic is complete, the artery is reduced to the condi- tion of an inert tube, the external and internal tunics which are healthy merely covering both its surfaces. In undergoing this trans- formation, the middle tunic is diminished in thickness, so that the diameter of the artery becomes actually larger. If we now compare this alteration with that already described, it will be found that they differ not only in their origin, but also in the transformations which they respectively undergo. The one originates in the minute yellow spot developed between the internal and middle tunics : the latter of which be- coming thickened and softened, ultimately presents either the ulcerous, or the osseous transformation. In the other, the middle tunic alone is attacked, and ultimately becomes thin, transparent, and ossified. Instances, however, have been met with, where these two forms of alteration were found together, patches of the atheromatous matter extending beneath the lining membrane, and externally to them, the middle tunic being hardened, or converted in circular bony rings. All these alterations generally increase in C c 2