FRACTURE, 377 of the neck of the bone, it is unnecessary to keep up extension; it suffices to apply the middle of a four- tailed bandage over a pad of lint just above the tro- chanter, two of the tails of which should be carried round the pelvis and drawn rather tightly, to prevent the bandage from slipping off, and the remaining two, also upon a pad, round the upper part of the thigh, and fastened as close as the case may require. The object of this bandage is to counteract the contraction of those muscles w)iich have a tendency to separate the fractured surfaces. A splint should also be ap- plied altjnq the outer side of the thigh as in fracture of the neck; its object is to keep the trochanter in a proper line with the shaft of the bone. In fractures between the trochanters, just below the neck, the same position is necessary as in fractures of the neck of the l>one ; the trochanter being prevented from dropping by a hard pilloiv placed beneath it, and the upper and lower fragments kept in a proper line by means of the side splint lightly applied. In fractures below the trochanter minor, the limbs ought to be placed over the double inclined plane, fixed at a right angle, and the injured limb extended to its natural length by the elongation of the middle plane. A common splint, well padded, and long enough to reach from the tuberosity of the ischium to the ham, should be placed under the thigh upon some straps, another upon the outer side, another upon the inner, and a fourth upon the front of the thigh. They should keep up a pressure, judiciously regulated, upon the limb, by means of straps arid buckles V’ I have already objected to the rigid treat- ment of fractures near to the head of the femur. I must here remark that the great flexion of the knee as above depicted, seems a needless extension of the rectus femoris. When the femur is broken near its middle. Fig. 332. Fig. 332 shores the appearance of a transverse fracture of the right femur a little above the condyles, u'hich has been long repaired ; there has been no displace- ment. It is found that in similar injuries, here, and near the middle of the thigh, the reunion may h.uve the bone too little curved, or too much so. • From Dr. Cutler’s Practical Guide to Dressing, &c. the inferior portion may be directed outwards, with or without overlapping ; but a little at- tention readily detects and remedies this. Some abduction of the leg, or even the me- thod of Pott, may be useful in such a case. In cases of oblique fracture of the shaft, we must expect that the displacement will be at one time determined by the line of frac- ture, at another by the muscles, or occasion- ally by both. If the student will observe Figs. 273, 274, and 275, 285 (a and a'), 295, 296, and 297, —which were employed without reference to resent considerations, he may understand ow common are lateral displacement and overlapping, as sequelas of fracture of the shaft of the femur. Specimens of union with- out these consequences are few ; and trans- verse fracture scarcely seems to prevent their occurrence in general, excepting when it hap- pens near the condyles. To ber.d the knee considerably when the femur is broken near its middle, and when there is any disposition to overlapping, is, of course, to prevent the relaxation of the short and powerful extensors of the knee, which are by far the most influential causes of shortening. The flexion of repose is some criterion, and either straight splints or inclined planes may be made to conform to this condition, at least in part. Sir A. Cooper considers that de- formity is sure to result from fracture just above the condyles, if the limb be not placed in a bent position. He recommends the double inclined plane, and a roller applied round the femur. Fig. 333. Fracture of the internal condyle nearly in a longitudi- nal direction; the fragment is retracted. The union is