ENCEPHALOCELE. 125 cysts formed in the neighbourhood of the protrusion beneath the integuments. In a case by Schneider also, a tumour, formed by two ounces of black blood, adhered to the hernia, which had passed through the anterior fontanelle. Diagnosis and Prognosis.—The diagnosis of encephalocele is an important part of our subject ; for tumours of various sizes are frequently observed on the heads of young children, and the safety of the child will depend on a correct knowledge of the dif- ferential signs of each species of swelling; for means which in some cases would be salutary and requisite, in others would, in all probability, prove fatal. The diseases for which encephalocele has been mistaken, are cephalhaematoma, various tumours of the scalp, naevus, fungus of the dura mater, serous cysts of the head, hydrocephalic protrusion, and nasal polypus. The distinctive marks between encephalocele and Cephalhema- toma, are given in the latter article. The tumours of the scalp which may re- semble encephalocele, are the bloody tumour, or sero-sanguineous oedema, so common on the heads of infants after protracted labour or instrumental delivery ; and certain encysted or non-encysted tumours of the skin, or sub- cutaneous cellular tissue, the former class in- cluding the species formed by the retention of sebaceous matter in a dilated follicle, meli- ceris, and atheroma; the latter lipoma, and steatoma. The swelling caused by infiltration of bloody serum, or extravasation of blood into the sub-cutaneous, or sub-aponeurotic cellular tissue of the scalp, can only resemble ence- phalocele when the effused matter has be- come surrounded by a hard ridge, resulting from the effusion of lymph, and consequent condensation of the parts immediately around it, which sometimes occurs, leaving the cen- tral part comparatively soft and yielding. In no other case is there any thing resembling an aperture in the walls of the cranium ; and this ridge cannot be mistaken for the edge of a bony opening if the finger be pressed stea- dily on it; for under continued pressure it will gradually disappear, whereas a bony edge would become more evident. And further, these swellings are unattended with pulsation, they are not diminished on pressure, nor are cerebral symptoms produced thereby. The encysted and non-encysted tumours are distinguished by their superficial situation, indolent nature, and their mobility. They do not adhere to the bones, and the latter can be felt perfect beneath them. They also want the pulsation and other marks of encephalocele. Nsevi resemble encephalocele in pulsating, and being reduced in size by pressure ; but their superficial situation, and want of com- munication with the cranium, are sufficient to distinguish them. See also Nevus. Fungus of the dura mater, in common with encephalocele, is partly reducible on com- pression, and loss of sensibility or coma are also produced. It is the seat of pulsation, and of a movement corresponding with in- spiration and expiration. It passes through an opening in the bone. The common cha- racters being so numerous, perhaps the marks of diagnosis will be best given by means of a table. ENCEPHALOCELE. No premonitory symptoms. Is congenital, or appears before ossifi- cation has been com- pleted. Situated either on a suture, fontanelle, or some part of the skull, membranous during intra-uterine life. Borders of opening smooth. Only one ex- ception to this rule on record. Frequently pedicu- lated. FUNGUS OF THE DURA MATER. Preceded by cephal- algia, and lancinating pains during the ab- sorption of the bone. Excessively rare in infancy, but comes on at a period when the bones, sutures, and fontanelles, are com- pletely consolidated. Most frequently pierces the substance of a bone. Borders of opening rough and irregular. Always large at base—never pedicu- lated. Subtegumentary serous cysts do not pul- sate ; are not diminished by pressure unless they communicate with the cranium, nor are cerebral symptoms thus produced. They are very generally mobile, and not adherent to the bone, which can be felt beneath them not perforated. Where these cysts compli- cate encephalocele, the diagnosis may be im- possible. A protrusion of the dura mater filled with fluid would not be readily mistaken for the soft, doughy, elastic tumour of simple ence- phalocele ; but it might be impossible to dis- tinguish the former from a hydrencephalo- cele ; for in both cases the cranium is per- forated, the dura mater forms the hernial sac, and the serum contained in the sac passes into the cranium on pressure being applied to the tumour, and compresses the brain. The diagnosis then might be impossible ; but it is unimportant, as the treatment would be the same in both cases. That such aqueous her- nias of the dura mater do really occur, is proved by a case of Deslandes', in which a tumour of this nature passed through au open- ing in the middle and inferior part of the oc- cipital bone, and extended to the fourth dorsal vertebra. Ruysch also related a case of this nature, the tumour occupying the occipital region, and exceeding in bulk that of the head of the child. Otto describes protrusion con- sisting only of the membrane, and contained fluid; and Dr. Copland states, that he has met with several cases at the Infirmary for Children, and in “ unusual situations, namely, through clefts in the parietal bone2.” 1 Journal de Medecine, tom. xxvi. p. 74. 1767. a. Diet. Pract. Med. pt. i. p. 225.