745 CATHETERISM. easy and uninterrupted passage through this tube ? The catheters already in use being com- monly of equal diameter, and rounded or oval at the point, present the same unvarying re- lation to every point of the canal whether it be narrowed or dilated ; and hence the ob- stacles (natural obstacles, as they are termed) that oppose the progress of the instrument upon the slightest misdirection of it in those points of the canal where its diameter varies abruptly. I have had a fair share of expe- rience of this subject and have thought much upon it, and no doubt now remains on my mind of our possessing the power of obviat- ing the difficulties of catheterism, as arising from these obstacles, by the form of the in- strument which has now been for some time subjected to the test of daily use. In speaking formerly of the choice of a catheter I dwelt much on the importance of its bulk; the largest, when not disproportioned to the calibre of the canal, being in general the best. The reason of the preference is obvious',—the large instrument, according as it advances in the urethra and unfolds the membrane, forms a small vacuum before its bee, and thus its route is opened and prepared for it in a manner which does not obtain when a small instrument is employed, for in the latter case the folds of the canal are in close contact with its point. The qualities that seem to me desirable in the catheter are the following :— First, the volume, or size, should be full, in proportion to the calibre of the urethra. Secondly, its shape should be such that the small vacuum in advance of the bulk of the catheter, and produced by it, shall be occu- pied by a small guiding prolongation of its point, inclined to the upper surface of the canal. Thirdly, on its under surface its shape, be- tween the tip of the small prolongation and the part at which its fullest diameter is de- veloped, shall be such as to occupy or accom- modate itself to the depression as it passes them, and to depress and flatten the emi- nences on the under surface of the urethra as it passes over them. Fourthly, that the eyes shall not be too large, and that they shall be so placed as not to present any obstacle to the progress of the sound, either by their being plugged or stopped up by the lining membrane of the urethra. It will be evident on examining the cathe- ter I propose (sec Fig. 170), that its form lulfils all the conditions required in relation to the canal in its passage down to the bladder. 1 Vidi aliquarulo me instrumento parvo ad vcsicam pcnctrnrc non potuissc, cum tamcn magnum, ct cras- sura, citra ullum impedimentuin, ct obstaculum im- missum tucrit : causa cst quia tenerum ct gracile in- etrumentmn antractibus ct rugis virgac impingit ; crassum vero uretram diducit, ct per sc aperit.— JJiUl. lib. do Lith. cap. iii. p. 712. Its form in all respects is the same as that of an ordinary catheter, except from the eyes to the termination of the bee, and in this por- tion its shape is entirely different from that of the instrument in general use. The whole of this portion consists of three parts, a neck, head, and beak, and bears a strong resem- blance to the neck, head, and bill of a swan. When a catheter of this shape is passed into the urethra the bulk of the head is suffi- cient to unfold the membrane in advance of it; the bill occupies the vacant space thus made, and continues to move along smoothly in contact with the upper surface of the ure- thra, from which its extreme point is so fashioned as to incline slightly towards the axis of the urethra. When it arrives at the bulb, the bulk of the head occupies this de- pression, while the guide or bill is necessarily directed into the middle of the isthmus, or commencement of the fixed portion of the canal ; the handle being now gently lowered, the bulk of the head ascends out of the de- pression of the bulb, and favoured by the inclined plane, in which the head and bill are blended together, glides imperceptibly over the sill formed by the under edge of the tri- angular ligament. It moves on freely through the muscular portion till it reaches the pro- state ; here again, the guide, keeping close by the upper surface, overtops the eminence of the verumontanum, and depressing it, leads the head of the catheter gently over it. The bill then enters the bladder at the upper part of its orifice, making way for the head of the catheter as it had done throughout the whole of the passage. To resume : the chief and valuable peculiarity of this catheter con- sists in the fidelity with which its upper sur- face keeps to the upper surface of the urethra, while the bulk of the body, tapering upwards to the end of the bill, successively unfolds the depressions and climbs upon the eminences which it meets in its course along the inferior surface of the canal. Sounds of this shape may be rendered still more useful by adapting to their external end a small caoutchouc bottle about the size of a walnut filled with oil, tepid water, or a solu- tion of extract of belladonna. This arrange- ment, though merely accessorial, may be very useful when the operator is inexperienced, or when there is spasm with congestion of the muscular portion of the canal. It will also form a good substitution for forced injections in cases of retention of urine ; and a very good preparative for the passage of very fine bougies or catheters. In developing these opinions my object has been to contribute something, however incon- siderable, to render more easy of execution an operation often requiring great delicacy of tact, and which is but too often rendered un- necessarily painful and difficult. Under this impression I should have preferred fatiguing the attention by presenting the whole subject in some detail, to failing, perhaps, in my object by curtailing points which I believe to be im-