532 BUBO. It would, perhaps, be going' too far to say, that the opening a bubo by caustic is never proper, but certainly it is very seldom so. Pain- ful in its use, it destroys skin which, in all probability, might by other means have been preserved. Nor can it be looked on as abso- lutely safe, for in states of system predisposed to phagedsena, which the cachectic are, the irritation excited by the potassa fusa, or by any other strong escharotic, might give birth to that formidable affection. 3. Early openings and late ones, small and large ones, have each in turn had their advo- cates. I confess that my predilections are rather for early openings. Even in the stage which pre- cedes the perfect formation of pus, and its col- lection into a single cavity, a moderately free opening has frequently appeared tome to check the progress of the bubo, and materially limit its extent. And several considerations seem to be in favour of this opinion ; for, if the bubo depend upon a single gland, it is difficult to understand what objection can lie against an early incision, one that only anticipates what must come a little later ; and, on the other hand, if several glands are affected, to delay operating would be to offer a premium on a large abscess, a troublesome sore, and a pro- tracted cure, when two or three small inci- sions might economise both skin and time. Of course there is a medium in this, as in all things, hard to hit upon paper, and deter- mined only by that practical experience and observation, for which no rules can be given, and which no directions can create. But if, in enlargement of a single gland, there is a part of fair dimensions with evident fluctua- tion ; or if, in enlargement of several glands, there be more than one such, too widely sepa- rated to become easily confluent, I would ad- vise, and have never seen cause to regret an opening. By delaying this too long, the ab- scess, which is partly formed at the cellular tissue’s expense, is apt to become unnecessa- rily large, integument is endangered, and the subsequent reparative stages are protracted. In the scrofulous bubo we need not be in any hurry to operate. The amount of sup- puration is seldom so great as it seems, and extensive swelling and redness often end in a very small abscess indeed. I have already observed that nature may frequently, in this form of the affection, be left very much to herself. The dispute on the superior eligibility of a large opening or a small one, is settled in a great measure by the settlement of that on an early opening or a late one. If we make an early opening, we cannot well, or, at all events, we need not make a large one ; and, if we make a late opening, it would be absurd to make a small one. On this point, there- fore, I may be excused from dilating. But the mode of making the incision deserves a little more attention notwithstanding. It has appeared to me that something has been gained by attending to the following circum- stances :—First, to make the puncture in as dependent a part as possible of the general or particular cavity laid open ; secondly, so to direct the incision that the necessary move- ments of the limb may not pull the edges asunder; if the abscess is very small, a ver- tical incision answers best; if larger, it should be oblique, forming an angle of forty degrees, or thereabouts, with the ligament of Poupart. It not unfrequently happens, that a cavity of some size presents, as it were, two cham- bers, connected by a more constricted por- tion. The skin is thin, and an opening is necessary in two places, separated by a greater or less interval from one another. The in- termediate part of the cavity does not close with readiness, and it may be requisite at a later period to lay the two openings into one. But I have often gained time, and saved skin, by passing a seton of calico or linen rag, in the first instance, from one opening to the other. This plan commonly answers very well; if it fails, we can but throw the two openings into one at last. I have applied the seton to the treatment of a large cavity, and with very good results. A small vertical incision may be made at the inferior and pubic confine, and another on the opposite side. A seton may then be passed from one to the other. Granulations fill the cavity, and the skin between the punctures is preserved. This method is to be preferred where the patient is anxious to avoid a large scar, or where, from the size of the cavity, we are unwilling to sacrifice skin. Of course the seton tape is merely passed from the one opening to the other, not tied so tight as to cut through the integument. In the cachectic bubo the incisions must often be more free than in the other forms; the cavity being larger, and the skin more undermined. The surgeon should, on this account, take care not to wait too long before he has recourse to the knife. After the opening, fomentations and poul- tices should be employed as before, until gra- nulations have freely sprung up. Stimulating injections should then be made use of; and, if the cavity is shallow and secretes little, the water dressing, so warmly patronised by many surgeons of the present day, will agree. But, although it is not the fashion to praise poultices, I must confess that I have seen, or thought that I have seen them agree as well as other applications, if not better. A light bread poultice, made with a solution of the chloride of lime or sulphate of zinc, instead ot with plain water, and enclosed in a muslin hag, can be bound gently, or hung, against the aperture, and keeps it moist and open. In- jections, or the lunar caustic, stimulate, at the same time, the granulations within ; and, un- der this plan, as much progress is made as under any other, if indeed there is not more. The scrofulous bubo, in the stage of suppu- ration, may sometimes be beneficially treated by compression. But care must be taken not to block up any openings ; and compression in