784 CLUB-FOOT. The reader will find a very clear and able analysis of the opinions of those writers who preceded him, in the introduction to Dr. Lit- tle’s treatise already alluded to. After showing the unanimity of B. Bell, Duverncy, Boyer, and Jorg, in ascribing ta- lipes to inequality of muscular action, “Ru- dolphi,”saysDr. Little,“gavea more complete view of the origin than any of his predecessors, and one more consistent both with physio- logy and pathology. He concluded that con- genital talipes and the analogous deformity of the hand (club-hand) arise from disordered in- fluence of nerves on muscles in the foetal state, by which their contraction is prema- turely excited, and often in so vehement a manner, that the mother experiences pain from the convulsive motions ; the limbs thus be- come distorted, and permanent deformity is often thereby occasioned. He observes, that the authors who have maintained the injurious influence of external and mechanical causes, such as pressure of the uterus through an im- proper position of the foetus, appear to have been unaware, that these distortions are not unfrequently witnessed in embryos of three or four months. Rudolphi not only points out the influence exercised on the muscles of the extremities by powerful and general causes affecting the entire nervous system of the foetus, but states that talipes often occurs in infants, in other respects well-formed, from simple spasm.” To Delpech, however, be- longs the merit of having first worked out and practically applied the correct principle of treating these affections. Although in his first publication1 he advocated the opinion that club-foot originated in mal-formation of the bones, he agreed with Scarpa, that the mus- cles contributed materially to the increase of the deformity. The observation of two cases of varus, oc- curring at an age when the bones had attained their full development, taught him, that the muscles were active agents in the production, as well as in expediting the progress, of these affections. The first case was one of injury to the external popliteal nerve, by a gun-shot wound in the thigh. The peronei, tibialis anticus, extensor longus digitorum, and ex- tensor proprius pollicis muscles, became pa- ralysed, and the unresisted contraction of their antagonists produced distortion of the foot inwards. In the second case, excessive con- traction of the posterior muscles of the leg, succeeded to abscesses of the thigh and necro- sis of the femur, the equilibrium between the flexor and extensor muscles of the foot was destroyed, and varus in an extreme degree ensued. In his treatise on this subject2, pub- lished six years after the “ Clinique,” Delpech avows his change of opinion, shows that a dis- turbance of that “ equilibration which is natu- ral and necessary to all the muscles,” is the ' Chirurgie Clinique de Montpelier, 1823. 2 De l'Orthomorphie, 1829. immediate cause of these deformities’, and that this may result not only from direct in- jury, as in the two cases noticed above, but from more remote influences, as from hydro- cephalus, effusion upon the brain or spinal cord, or even from irritation excited in the nervous system during dentition. Yet Del- pech still believed that the gastrocnemii were the only muscles involved in the production of talipes, that pes equinus was the first stage of the deformity, and that the inclination of the toes inwards or outwards gradually mani- fested itself, and was fully confirmed by pres- sure exercised in the act of walking. Dr. Stromeyer2 has collected, under the following heads, the various sources of dis- tortion dependent upon irregular action of the muscles:— 1. Structural changes in the muscles, inflam- mation, and wounds, with loss of substance. 2. Debility and inactivity of antagonists, produced— (a.) By wounds of tendons or of the bellies of antagonist muscles. (6.) By paralysis of the nerves of the anta- gonist muscles ; this may be complete or par- tial, and affect either the voluntary or involun- tary motor powers. 3. Diminution of voluntary power in the entire limb, without paralysis of the sympa- thetic nerves, through which the flexors (in the foot the extensors) preponderate over the extensors (in the foot the flexors) by the con- stant organic contraction of the muscles. 4. Painful affections of the part, restraining or prohibiting motion, such as that from in- flammation of a joint. In this instance also the extensors yield to the flexors. 5. Increased energy in the muscle, morbid contraction or motion in the muscular fibres tonic spasm. The muscle, through constant contraction, becomes inert with reference to its particular function, but continues in a state of tension from its fibrous structure. The causes enumerated under the first and fourth heads produce deformity, but not genuine talipes. Those included under the second, third, and fifth heads, are alone the sources of true club-foot. Stromeyer considers the contraction of the muscles of the calf to be the essential cause of talipes equiuus and t. varus, regarding the varieties presented by individual cases of varus as secondary phenomena. With Del- pech and Cruveilhier, he is inclined to attri- bute the inversion in varus to defective for- mation of the malleolus interims3. Such a 1 Delpech gives due credit to the late Mr. Shaw, for Ins suspicion that the loss of equilibrium in the mus- cles was a cause of deformity.—T. i. p. 83. 2 Ucbcr Paralyse der Inspirations-Muskcln. 3 I” a recent private communication (June 25th, 1840) which I have received from Dr. Stromeyer, ho observes, “ the difference between congenital and non- congcnital club-foot consists, 1st. In the constantly spusmodic nature of the former, while non-congenital club-foot more frequently originates in paralysis and unequal re-establishment of muscular power, or in tonic contraction of the predominant mass of muscles,