AMPUTATION. II!) iron after the operation ; and then removed his ligature. He probably used the actual cautery to stop the bleeding from the small arteries; and when he speaks of tying or sew- ing blood-vessels, he probably means those of considerable size only. The measures ot Archigenes were adopted by Heliodorus, whose opinion was unfavourable both to the hasty removal of the limb by a direct uninter- rupted section, without drawing back and dis- secting up the soft parts, and to amputations performed at the joints. Galen says very little on amputation. He defended, however, the operation performed at the joints, on the ground of its being, in his opinion, safe and speedy. Paulus iEgineta, whose name is cften men- tioned in connexion with amputation, cannot be said to have contributed to the improve- ment of the operation. He deviated from the precepts of Celsus, by insisting on the neces- sity of amputating in the dead parts, or only on the confines of the living ones. Among the Arabian surgeons the operation certainly underwent no improvement. It seems, on the contrary, to have somewhat retrograded ; for Abul Kasem recommended that the soft parts should be divided with a knife heated to redness, and that a balsam of sulphur should be applied afterwards to determine the separa- tion of the eschar. Avicenna, however, re- peated the rules given on the subject by the Greeks, and directed the incisions to be made rather above the gangrenous parts. During the middle ages no improvement was effected in amputations. The few changes introduced were rather in a contrary direction. Theodoric di Cervia had the merit of recom- mending the method of Celsus. Prior to the operation he administered opium and hyoscya- mus, with a view of rendering it less painful to the patients whom he afterwards en- deavoured to rouse from the effects of the narcotics, by causing them to smell of vinegar and aromatics. Guido di Chauliaco, who lived about the middle of the fourteenth century, was more willing to allow gangrenous limbs to separate of themselves than to employ the knife. He used to enwrap the sphacelated part in pitch plaster, and to exercise such con- striction as he considered calculated to facili- tate its separation at the place of a joint. In the sixteenth century, Hans de Gersdorf joined to the operation of Celsus, which he justly extolled, the proceeding of Archigenes, of fixing back the integuments with a band tied round the limb above the place of ampu- tation. He would not use the actual cautery ; and instead of employing the suture, which was beginning to be adopted in his time, he enveloped the stump in a pig’s bladder. About this period Maggi indicated the im- portance of having sufficient skin to cover the stump. Up to the time of Ambroise Pare, as the means familiar to his predecessors were unsatisfactory, some of them, with Fallopius, employed the actual cautery, while others, among whom was Fabricius, Ab Aquapendente, continued, like Paulus JEgineta, to amputate in the gangrenous parts. Pare, the great sur- geon of Louis XIV., introduced the plan of arresting haemorrhage after amputation, by tying the vessels ; a plan of so much import- ance that it may be considered to have led the way to every improvement the operation has undergone since his time. He used to draw out the vessels from the surface of the wound with a kind of forceps (bee de Corbin), and tie them with a double thread; just, says Boyer, as we are in the habit of tying the umbilical cord. In case the haemorrhage re- turned, he employed a needle, and passed a ligature round the bleeding vessels, so as to embrace with them some thickness of the neighbouring tissues, and also a portion of skin, on which he placed a compress, and then tied the knot. Besides introducing the im- portant measure of tying the bleeding vessels of the stump, Pare was the first who explicitly stated that a band should be tied tight round the limb, prior to amputation, not only to raise the skin and benumb the part, but also for the purpose of preventing haemorrhage during the operation. Of this remarkable man, then, it cannot be too much to say, that he was the first who devised measures to enable surgeons to perform amputation safely, and thus laid the foundation of every improvement made in the operation since his time. As soon as sur- geons obtained the power of controlling the circulation, through the discoveries of Pare, they were no longer obliged to hurry through the operation, through terror at the thought of the patient’s bleeding to death, but were enabled to turn their attention to the shape to be given to the stump ; they also began to think of applying amputation to other cases than those of gangrene. A new era in surgery may be said to have commenced from the discoveries of Pare ; and, as maybe supposed, they were too great an in- novation to meet with ready or general adop- tion. Many of his contemporaries, and even some of those who came after him, neglected to give their patients the benefit of these measures, which, combined with the method of Celsus, con- stituted a better kind of amputation than any which had preceded it ; and such was the operation performed by Fabricius Hildanus, and Wiseman. Fabricius introduced the use of the retractor ; and, like Pare, after tying the principal vessels, applied the actual cautery to the surface of the stump. Wiseman did not make use of the retractor. He sometimes em- ployed the actual cautery, and sometimes tied the vessels. In either case, he afterwards applied a suture and a compressive dressing of stiff plaster. He joined Fabricius Hild- anus in advising that the incisions should al- ways be made in the living parts. Dionis rejected the actual cautery. He was averse to amputation performed at the knee-joint. Towards the end of the seventeenth cen- tury, Lowdam of Oxford, and Verduyn of Am- sterdam insisted on the necessity of dividing