174 EXOSTOSIS. not only those composed wholly of ossific matter, bnt also those whose structure con- sists of cartilage alone, or of cartilage mixed with ligamentous or bony matter. We would purposely omit the consideration of osteo- sarcoma and fungus hsematodes under the head of exostosis, and refer their consideration to Cancer and Osteo-Sarcoma. The pecu- liar character of osteo-sarcoma, and the differ- ence of opinion as to its malignant nature, sufficiently entitles it, in our opinion, to an independent consideration. With regard to fungus haematodes occurring in bone, it differs only from the same disease occurring in other parts, from the nature of the structure in which it manifests itself; and, therefore, the pecu- liarities which arise from its situation will be alluded to when speaking of that disease. The venereal node, though in fact a true exostosis, will not be treated of here, as its consideration will more properly come under the head of syphilis and its consequences. See Node. The part of the bone from whence these tumours take their origin has given rise to their division into periosteal and medullary. The former division, including those which are found between the periosteum and exter- nal surface of the bone ; the latter, those which originate from the internal parts of a bone, the medullary membrane, and the can- cellated structure. All the bones in the body are liable to this disease ; but the bones of the head and face, together with the tibia and femur, and other cylindrical bones, are its most frequent seats. The causes of exostosis are involved in great obscurity. Some authors attribute the origin for the most part to a venereal or scrofulous taint ; but this must be exceedingly doubt- ful, as we find exostosis existing at very early ages, and again we find syphilis and scrofula in their worst forms, without exostosis showing itself in any of the bones. There would often appear a remarkable tendency to the deposi- tion of ossific matter in some subjects, from the slightest possible causes. A case is mentioned by Sir Astley Cooper 1 of an exostosis arising from a blow on the metacarpal bone of the little finger. In Cooper’s Surgical Dictionary, a case is related, on the authority of Mr. Abernethy, “ of a boy who was so excessively afflicted with an apparent predisposition to exostosis, or an exuberant deposition of bony matter, that a very trifling blow would occasion a bony swelling on any bone of his body.” Though in these two instances blows may have been the immediate exciting cause of the bony swelling, yet there must have ex- isted some great peculiarity of constitution to have enabled so slight an injury to have called into action this ossific tendency. When exostosis depends on external violence, it is not unreasonable to suppose that inflammatory action has been set up in the periosteum and 1 Surgical Essays, 161. external layers of a bone, and that the effu- sion, poured out as a consequence of this vascular excitement, becomes organized ; and, consequently, we meet with periosteal ex- ostosis in almost every stage, from simple cartilage, to cartilage mixed up with more or less phosphate of lime. In examining sections of the different kinds of exostosis, we observe their internal struc- ture varying much in its appearance. In some we find a thickened periosteum, with a cartilaginous swelling between the bone and periosteum: in others, again, we find a similar cartilaginous deposit, with processes of bony matter shooting out from the external surface of the original bone; and in some instances, again, these swellings are included in a bony case, immediately beneath the periosteum. Other exostoses, when cut through, have the appearance of being continuous with the ori- ginal bone, that is, the cancellated structure of the bone is continued into the tumour, and the shell of the bone extends over the swell- ing, so that were it not for the irregularity of surface, no appearance of disease would exist. Sir Astley Cooper1 classes all these under one head—Cartilaginous Exostoses between the Periosteum and Bone—and considers their origin to be the same ; making their differ- ence of appearance depend on the more or less advanced stages of the ossification of the cartilaginous deposit. He says, “ it originates in the inflammation of the periosteum, and of the corresponding part of the bone; and a deposition of cartilage, of very firm texture, and similar to that which forms the nidus of bone in the young subject, adheres to both these surfaces. The periosteum adheres to the external surface of the swelling, and the swelling itself is attached still more strongly to the surface of the bone. Within this car- tilage a bony matter is deposited, which is first thrown out from the original bone ; it continues afterwards to be secreted as the cartilage increases in bulk ; for it appears that between the periosteum and bony mass, cartilage is constantly secreted, which con- stitutes the exterior surface of this tu- mour. “ When the accretion of these swellings ceases, and the disease has been of long standing, they are found to consist, on their exterior surface, of a shell of osseous matter, similar to that of the original bone, of the same cancellated structure, and communi- cating with the original cancelli of the bone. Consequently, when an exostosis has been formed in the manner here described, the shell of the original bone becomes absorbed, and cancelli are deposited in its place.” Mr. Howship has a different opinion to the foregoing as to the mode of formation of some of these exostoses, and which would account for the much more cellular structure of some than others 2. His explanation will be found 1 Surgical Essays, 1 and 2, p. 186. 2 Med. Cliirg. Trans, vol. viii. p. 83.