ANEURISM. 210 same time ; this is the fusiform dilatation. But if the change has taken place partially in the artery, and affects only one of its sides, the enfeebled portion only of the tunics will yield, and the dilatation will then be partial. The fusiform dilatation is now regarded by most pathologists as a precursor to the more com- mon lateral dilatation, and in which, it it con- tinues to make progress, it ultimately termi- nates. An artery, however, may undergo dilatation without any disease of its tunics. But this condition differs essentially from that of an aneurismal sac, and will be noticed here- after. Proximate Causes.—Besides different con- stitutional disturbances, such as arise from rheumatism or gout, and which cause changes in the structure of the arterial system, aneurisms can usually be traced to some violent or sudden exertion, or to some mental excitement. An aneurismal swelling often arises from a violent fit of coughing, sneezing, vomiting, or leaping. A man, who had an aneurism of the innomi- nata was seized with a long paroxysm of sneez- ing ; after which he first perceived the aneur- ismal tumour. Another person, who had a carotid aneurism, first noticed the tumour after a violent fit of coughing. A third person, on leaping a ditch, slipped; at the moment, he felt a snap in the ham, after which an aneurism formed in the popliteal artery. In another case, a person, on attempting to raise himself in bed, on his hands, felt something snap on the back of his right hand, when an aneurism for- med on the radial artery. (A. Cooper.') In a word, when the predisposition exists, the dis- ease may be developed by causes apparently slight, acting either directly on the vessel itself, or indirectly on the heart. How an aneurism is caused by a sudden exertion or violent muscular effort, may, I think, be readily explained now that the in- fluence of muscular contractions on the arte- rial circulation has been pointed out (vide the author’s wrork on Diseases of the Heart). If the pressure of a contracted muscle on an artery have the effect of diminishing the impe- tus of the current of the blood, or of arresting it entirely, the result of thus stopping the cir- culation in a diseased artery must sometimes be such as to cause the diseased tunics of the vessel to give way, and an aneurism to be formed. Attempts have been made to imitate the formation of an aneurism by experiments on the arteries of animals. For this purpose, John Hunter laid bare the carotid artery of a dog, and afterwards “ skinned it with a knife, even to transparency,” but no dilatation of the vessel took place. Three weeks afterwards, the animal was killed, and the artery on which the experiment was made, in place of being dilated where the external tunic had been detached, was found thickened by the inflam- mation, and subsequent adhesion of the adjacent cellular structure. The result of Hunter’s ex- periments, however, were in direct contradic- tion to some which had been made by the illus- trious Haller, who asserted, that he could readily produce an aneurism in dogs, by sepa- rating the cellular or fibrous coat of their arteries, and leaving denuded the internal tunic. The discrepancy in the results of the experiments of these two eminent pathologists was, however, readily accounted for by the difference of the mode in which their experi- ments were conducted ; for whilst Haller left the denuded vessel to remain isolated and separated from the adjoining soft parts, Hun- ter allowed the artery and the surrounding cellular tissue to unite, and hence the parietes of the vessel, in place of being more yielding, as in Haller’s experiment, became absolutely firmer, and thus capable of making a greater resistance to the impetus of the blood. The experiments of Hunter, therefore, may be adduced as examples of the powers the sys- tem possesses for repairing an injured artery ; while those of Haller show that the internal membrane of the artery is not alone sufficient to resist the impetuosity of the circulation, and hence, when the two external tunics of an artery are ruptured or destroyed by disease, an aneurismal tumour may be formed by the distension of the internal coat alone. Experiments have also shown that the force of the blood’s current is not sufficient to dilate the external coat of an artery when the fibrous and inner coats have been ruptured by tempo- rarily tying a ligature tightly round the vessel. In place of the external cellular tunic giving way, and forming an aneurismal tumour, the powers of nature are exercised here as after wounds, in restoring the injured parts by the effusion of coagulable lymph, and this happens in some instances to such a degree as to ob- struct the flow of the blood, and entirely in- ; terrupt the circulation through the artery. Whilst artificial means of producing an aneurism by destroying the external or cel- lular coat of arteries in a living animal have failed, experiments have shown how readily in the dead body an aneurism or bulging of the cellular coat can be produced by forcibly injecting either air or water into an artery, when the internal and fibrous coats have been previously divided. By injecting water into the pulmonary artery with such a degree of force as to rupture the internal and middle coats, Nicholls found that the external coat became distended. Having divided the in- ternal and middle coats of different arteries by the application of ligatures, Hodgson also found that, by forcibly inflating the vessel, “ the external tunic always exhibited a suffi- cient degree of dilatation to prove that it is more liable to yield and to be expanded into a sac, than to be ruptured by the impulse of the blood.” But the same experiment in a living animal produced a very different result; and Jones proved that the laceration of the internal and middle coats of a healthy artery was not followed by a dilatation of the cellular coat, or by the formation of an aneurism^ but that fibrine was effused on the injured surfaces which, in place of enfeebling, rendered the 12