8 23 CONGELATION. found buried in the snow, or otherwise ex- posed to a severe and long-continued cold, we have not only to contend against the local affections of the limbs and other prominent parts, but also against the general sedative in- fluence of cold. In such cases the patient is to be stripped of his frozen raiment, and the body carefully dried. Heat should be com- municated by friction with flannel cloths, at first cold and gradually heated, or with the naked hand. To stimulate the heart and re- spiratory organs, spirits, liquid ammonia, or oil of turpentine should be rubbed over the pit of the stomach, and pungent fumes applied to the nostrils. As soon as the patient is able to swallow, a gentle warm cordial ought to be administered. We must not, however, forget the frost-bitten parts, but keep down the cir- culation in them as carefully as we excite it. in the general system. These parts are there- fore to be rubbed with snow, or immersed in cold water. We must also be careful not to restore such a degree of vigour to the general circulation as may be detrimental to the con- gealed parts. We must carefully balance be- tween the two extremes of stimulating too much and stimulating too little. It may be affirmed in general, that the more slowly the circulation and the temperature of the body are restored, the less severe the subsequent local affections are likely to prove ; but it must, at the same time, not be forgot that there is a risk of the patient never rallying from his state of torpor. In that case all subsequent affections become but of secondary import- ance, and we must employ whatever stimuli may be necessary to guard our patient against the more imminent danger which threatens him. With respect to those rare cases, in which symptoms of general congelation show them- selves in a high degree without any local affec- tion, as soon as we have satisfied ourselves of the nature of such cases, by a careful examina- tion of the parts usually affected with frost- bite, we are to apply heat and other stimuli, as recommended above ; only we may apply them with much more freedom, as there is no danger of any local injury being induced by over-excitement. There is nothing therefore to forbid us from stretching the patient before the fire, immersing the extremities in hot water, or employing any other of the usual expedients for communicating heat'. 3rd, Inflammation.—When a frost-bitten part has passed through the primary stage of con- gelation without having its vitality destroyed, a certain degree of reaction always takes place, indicated by heat and throbbing ; but if to these symptoms arc joined a sense of burning and shooting pains, we have reason to appre- hend the accession of inflammation, and our endeavours must now be directed to moderate and subdue the inflammatory action, as upon the violence of that action the issue of the case now entirely depends. The application of cold which in the primary stage was in- 1 Ed. Med. and Sing- Journ. vol. i. tended to prevent inflammation will now be of use in moderating it. The immersion of the part in cold water will therefore be usefully succeeded by the application of a cold lotion, whether consisting simply of cold water or of W'ater mingled with spirits or vinegar, or hold- ing sugar of lead in solution. It is a very safe rule to continue the cold applications so long as they continue to be grateful to the feelings of the patient; but the moment they excite chilliness and shivering they should be discon- tinued. The remedies which should be used in substitution vary according to the degree of inflammation present: if there be mere red- ness of the skin, cotton, or the linimentum aquae calcis may be employed; and under these or any other bland application a cure will rea- dily be effected: if there be vesication, the fluid contained in the vesicles should be let out by a small puncture, without removing the cuticle, which still serves as a protection to the irritated surface ; if the vesicles be of mode- rate size, and the fluid contained in them pellucid, the bland applications mentioned above will suffice ; but if, on the other hand, the vesications be larger, and more especially if the fluid be dark-coloured, and the skin beneath with a livid tinge, there will then be reason to apprehend sloughing, and hot dress- ings, such as the turpentine liniment, will be most advantageously employed. The general treatment ought to be directed to moderate the febrile excitement by all means compatible with husbanding the strength of the patient. A mild nutritious diet gene- rally constitutes the most important part of it, with laxatives, saline diaphoretics, and opiates, as circumstances may require. If, however, the inflammation be extensive, with a threaten- ing of gangrene, and feebleness of the pulse, stimulants must be given at an early period. When, in consequence of the imprudent ap- plication of heat to a person labouring under symptoms of general congelation, the brain or lungs suffer from the sudden reaction, the patient must be immediately removed into a cooler atmosphere; and if the symptoms are riot immediately mitigated, blood must be taken from the jugular vein in such quantity as may be deemed necessary, but with a due regard to the enfeebled condition of the patient. 4th, Mortification.—As has been already mentioned, mortification takes place after ex- posure to cold, either immediately, the con- gealed part never recovering from the direct sedative influence of the cold, or not till after the accession of inflammation, which, as in other instances where it is violent, may termi- nate in the death of the inflamed part. These cases differ little from each other in the treat- ment which they demand. In both our atten- tion must be directed not merely to promote the separation of the mortified part, but to moderate the intense inflammation going on in the living parts immediately beyond it. Stimulant dressings, with resinous substances and spirit of turpentine, are found to be the most useful applications. As the infiamma-