FRACTURE. 317 p. 264) as a mere excuse for the occurrence of non-union. ‘ It is the duty of the sur- geon,' he observes, ‘ when he examines into the nature of the accident, and places the limb in splints, to ascertain that the fractured ends grate together ; and if muscle is inter- posed, to make extension in order to disen- gage the broken extremity.’ The case men- tioned in the Dictionary of Cooper, on the authority of Sir James Earle, is often quoted to show the possibility of muscular substance forming an impediment to the union after fractures. He says, ‘ I have seen a woman, under Sir James Earle, in the above hos- pital (St. Bartholomew’s), whose os brachii did not unite, though it had been broken several months. Every attempt to move the bone occasioned excruciating torture. The woman died of some illness in the hospital; and, on dissecting the arm, the cause of the fracture not having united was found to arise from the upper, sharp pointed extremity of the lower portion of the broken bone having been forcibly drawn up by the muscles, and penetrated the substance of the biceps, in which it still remained.’ From this it is clearly evident that the fracture was oblique, and the fragments much displaced ; and this want of apposition in the fragments is surely alone a sufficient cause for the non-union, without seeking for it in the interposition of muscular fibres between the fragments. Be- sides, it is well ascertained that muscle, as well as all the other parts surrounding a frac- tured bone, contribute more or less to the formation of the callus. An interesting pre- paration going to support this view, and much to the point in this particular matter, is men- tioned in the Dictionnaire de Medecine (xiii. art. Fract. 2nd ed.) as having been presented to the Anatomical Society of Paris, in which the fragments of a clavicle, separated to the extent of an inch by the subclavian muscle, were united together very solidly by tw’o bridges of newly-formed bone, in the centre of which the muscle, itself ossified, was impri- soned. “5th. Tight bandaging. That a tight bandage may prevent the restorative process from taking place there can be no doubt. Duver- ney (Diseases of the Bones, trans. by Ing- ham, p. 171, 1762) thinks, nothing in simple fractures so much opposes the formation of callus as a too tight bandage. Pare (Works, trans. by Johnston, p. 379, 1649), and Wise- man (Chirurgical Treatises, ii. p. 256, 5th ed. Lond. 1719), also caution us in regard to its employment. Sir B. Brodie explains its modus operandi, by supposing that the frac- ture does not receive a sufficient quantity of blood to allow the process to go on; M. Malgaigne attributes it to the pressure preventing the deposit of the provisional callus. In support of the view of the latter it may be remarked, that Troja long since satisfied himself by experiment, that moderate compression in no way interferes with the process of reunion after fractures, but showed that a bandage tightly applied, without, nevertheless, being so much drawn as to cause any serious accident, prevented the formation of the provisional callus and its consequent consolidation. “6th. The long continued use of cooling applications, by keeping down vascular action in the fractured part, is ordinarily given a3 one cause of tardy union. These applica- tions should never be continued after the subsidence of the acute inflammatory' symp- toms. By Mr. Amesbury, diminished action from the too long continuance of sedative or cooling lotions, is regarded as a frequent cause of tardy union (Op. citat. p. 198). Dupuvtren regards them in the same light. “ 7th. The too early use of a fractured limb sometimes causes absorption of the callus to such an extent as to permit of motion in the part; and if in such instances the moving about is continued, the friction kept up between the ends of the bone causes them to become rounded, at the same time that the surrounding tissues become thickened, and form a false joint.” This is in point of fact what we have explained before,—the conver- sion of soft callus into ligament by the influence of motion and extension. The same in effect occurs in the reunion of tendons, ligaments, and muscles, and also of several bones. Some observations, lately made by MM. Berard and Gueretin, might seem to show that the supply of blood to the bone exer- cises an important influence on the period at which the epiphyses become united by bone to the shaft, and on the frequency of the occurrence of false joints in par- ticular parts of the bone;—that the epi- physis towards which the principal nutri- tious artery of the bone runs, coalesces sooner with the shaft, than the other epiphysis ; and that false joints are of less frequent occurrence in the part of the shaft between the opening of the canal for the nutritious artery, and the extremity of the bone towards which the canal runs, than in the other part of the shaft. Thus, in the humerus, the opening for the nutritious artery is situated in the middle of the length of the bone, and the canal that lodges the vessel runs towards the condyles. The inferior epiphyses, con- stituting the condyles,—the pulley that arti- culates with the ulna, and usually the lesser head that articulates with the radius, co- alesce at an earlier period with the shaft, than those that form the head of the bone* and its greater and lesser tuberosities. Aware of these facts, M. Gueretin (Presse Medi- cale, i. p. 45) was led to examine into the influence which the direction of the nutri- tious artery exerts upon the consolidation of fractures ; and he has asserted, that un-united fractures are most common in the points opposite to the direction of the nutritious artery. Here is, however, an instance of misapplied