CALCULUS. 582 bath, &c., employed as before. Diluents, too, must be ordered in profusion, and they may be medicated in the manner already recom- mended with the bicarbonate of potash or soda, less with a view, however, to the dis- integration of the concretions, than to wash them out and prevent their lodging perma- nently any where in the course of the urinary passages. Occasionally there are accidental circum- stances connected with the formation of con- cretions of salts of the oxalic acid, which must be held important, and which it is necessary to be aware of and to set aside. These salts have in fact in some cases been evidently de- posited in connexion with, and there seems no reason to doubt in consequence of the mode of life of the individual. Thus M. Ma- gendie relates a case of a gentleman who suf- fered from a fit of gravel, and passed several concretions of the oxalate of lime after having long indulged habitually in sorrel as an article of food ; and M. Ratier1 has given the par- ticulars of another case in which many concre- tions, as he says, of the oxalate of ammonia^ were deposited in the pelvis of the kidney and subsequently evacuated after great suffer- ing, from the continuous use of the same sub- stance as food. It was computed that M. Ratier’s patient had been in the habit of con- suming about half a pound of sorrel daily for three years, when he suffered the nephritic attack that was terminated by the discharge of rather more than half a drachm by weight of concretions of the substance mentioned, some of which were as large as peas. The treatment followed in this case was antiphlo- gistic, combined with the free use of diluents containing two drachms of bicarbonate of soda daily, which brought the urine to show alka- line reaction, and put an end to the fever and other symptoms with which the attack had been accompanied. Dr. Prout has suggested another plan of treatment in cases where oxalates are de- posited from the urine, namely, by converting the prevailing diathesis into that 'in which the lithic acid is excreted. But it is, in the first place, questionable how far this is really prac- ticable ; and in the second how far it were ad- vantageous, supposing it might be done. The oxalic and lithic diatheses often alternate one with another, it is true, and under the use of muriatic acid the lithic acid will begin to be deposited abundantly in many cases. But are we quite sure that there is not also oxalic acid elaborated at the same time, and in conse- quence of the treatment by possibility even in greater quantity than before? And if a nu- cleus be present upon which deposition can 1 Journ. General des Hopitaux, quoted in Nouv. Biblioth. Med. tom. iv. p.254. 1828. • 5 There must surely be some mistake here. Oxa- late op A .MM on I \ is a very soluble salt; and its existence is impossible in a fluid such as the urine, which contains lime in abundance. Oxalate of am- monia is immediately decomposed by the urine, oxa- late of lime and phosphate of ammonia resulting. take place, as in the case supposed, the ad- vantages of having the lithic acid substituted for the oxalate of lime are not great enough to compensate for the more rapid growth of calculi when they consist of the lithic acid or the lithates. The renal calculus of oxalate of lime is ge- nerally of a dusky or greenish brown, or of a bluish gray colour ; in the latter case and when quite smooth, as sometimes happens, it constitutes the hemp-seed, calculus, from its resemblance to the seeds of that plant. When the concretion is of larger size, it is generally tuberculated on the surface. Occasionally the oxalate of lime is passed from the kidney in the shape of an aggregation of well-formed crystals. In any form its chemical qualities render it easily recognizable :—its insolubility in the cold nitric and muriatic acids, its be- coming charred and then growing rapidly white before the flame of the blow-pipe, a bulky ash remaining, which shows alkaline reaction, effervesces in a dilute acid, and con- sists of a mixture of oxide of calcium and car- bonate of lime. Renal calculi of the lithic oxide.—The lithic, uric, or xanihic oxide has not, so far as we know, presented itself as the subject of ob- servation in the shape of a concretion voided directly from the kidney. Dr. Marcet how- ever met with it in the kidney after death, and a large calculus of the same substance, extracted from the bladder by Professor Lan- genbeck of Gottingen, has recently been analyzed by the distinguished chemists Liebig and Woehler. It is so rare that it can only be regarded as matter of curiosity. In its chemical qualities this substance agrees in many particulars with lithic acid. It has been shown, however, to be essentially different. It forms a yellow solution in. hot nitric acid, which becomes of a reddish tint when neutralized by potash. Before the blow-pipe it decrepitates, gives out a very peculiar odour, and leaves a slight ash behind. Renal calculi of cystine.— The number of cases in which the peculiar animal product called cystic oxide or cystine has been seen as the constituent matter of renal calculus or gravel, and has either been traced or taken immediately from the kidney, far exceeds those in which it has been extracted from the bladder by operation or after death. The spe- cimens examined have all been remarkably pure ; oidy two instances indeed are on record in which the cystic diathesis appears to have been followed by any other, and in both of these instances this was the lithic. The treatment of the state of system along with which cystine is deposited in the kidney is somewhat doubtful. Dr. Prout expresses an unfavourable opinion of this form of com- plaint, from the circumstance of its having very generally been encountered in alliance with diseased kidney and as an hereditary malady. In the earlier stages of diathesis, it is probable that the antiphlogistic plan and