695 CANCRUM ORIS. forehead, eyes and chin. We have recently seen an example of the extensive mortification of the face just described. It occurred in a poor child, living in a most unhealthy locality and convalescent from measles. The nose, lips, and greater part of the cheeks had been destroyed by the dry form of gangrene, yet the unfortunate sufferer continued to seek its mother’s breast to within a few hours of death. The secondary species of dry gangrene is that which supervenes on the ulcerative ; it is the species which we have observed most fre- quently at the children’s hospital, Paris. In some cases the mucous tissue of the gums or cheek has scarcely become ulcerated when mortification or phagedenic sloughs succeed ; in other cases the primitive form remains stationary for some time before the ulcers assume a gangrenous aspect and the disease begins to spread with its characteristic rapidity. The appearances are nearly the same as those which attend the first (or spontaneous) species. The gums, or lining membrane of the cheeks, at the parts occupied by the ulcers and in their vicinity, become black and are detached in the form of putrid detritus. The breath now conveys an intolerable odour, the salivary glands are often enlarged, and saliva, some- times mixed with blood, is discharged from the mouth in great quantities. On about the third day after the appearance of the ulcer in the mouth the cheek begins to swell, in con- sequence of the infiltration of yellowish serum into the cellular tissue, and the tumefaction gradually but slowly extends. The external aspect of the cheek varies in different cases. The external surface is sometimes pale and shining at first; sometimes of a dirty straw colour, sometimes hot, red and painful; finally, at other times of a violet tinge, more or less marked from the commencement. We have seen these different appearances of the cheek, and in a few rare cases have observed death to ensue before any change had taken place in the external aspect of the cheek. The peculiar tumefaction and appearance of the cheek are, however, a sure indication of the existence of gangrene, and if the medical at- tendant have overlooked the other symptoms, he cannot fail to be arrested by this one. Whatever may have been the colour of the tumid cheek, it soon begins to assume a livid hue, which gradually becomes black ; the whole thickness of the cheek is now destroyed by mortification, and if the child survive for a few days the eschar may be detached, leaving an enormous loss of substance in the walls of the mouth. The gangrene and tumefaction of the cheek are, as far as our own experience goes, always confined at first to one side of the face ; but in two or three days a brown fetid eschar frequently forms on the cor- responding point of the cheek opposite to the one attacked, and the same train of symptoms follow. Instead of terminating in death, as it commonly does, the gangrene may sometimes be arrested and a cure obtained. The first symptom indicative of a change for the better is the formation of a red circumscribed lino around the dark-coloured spot, or gangrenous perforation of the soft parts ; the tumefaction begins to subside ; if the hard parts have been involved, portions of the maxillary bones are detached, granulations spring up from the neighbouring healthy tissues ; they contract, cicatrize, and present irregular surfaces similar to those produced by extensive burns. Symptoms.—We have hitherto described only the local appearances and progress of cancrum oris. The general symptoms sel- dom bear any proportion to the extent or severity of the local disease. In many cases the gangrenous destruction of the gums and mucous lining of the mouth is not preceded by any manifest disturbance of the economy. When it occurs as a complication of the acute exanthemata, again, the symptoms which per- tain to the local affection are masked by those of the eruptive disorder. Sometimes, how- ever, the following premonitory symptoms have been noticed from eight to fourteen days before the commencement of ulceration in the mouth ; the child is dull and uneasy, and the sleep is often disturbed or broken ; the appe- tite is lost; the tongue foul ; the secretion of saliva is augmented, and the salivary glands are often enlarged ; the bowels are commonly loose ; the stools foetid, and the child complains of constant thirst; a febrile access generally occurs towards evening. The formation of a gangrenous spot is always accompanied by two local symptoms, to which the attention of the surgeon should be immediately directed; these are a peculiar foetid and metallic odour of the breath and an increased secretion, occasionally mixed with blood, from the salivary glands. Whenever either of these two symptoms occur during the course of, or convalescence from an acute exanthema, &c. or in debilitated un- healthy children, the surgeon should at once make a careful examination of the mouth and gums, for although the foetid breath shows that gangrenous ulceration has already commenced, yet the affection may be arrested by judicious treatment in the early stage, whereas it is in- tractable when the sloughing process is once fully established. Tumefaction of the sub- maxillary gland is another symptom which ac- companies the development of cancrum oris. M. Guersent thinks that it is of very frequent occurrence, but the more careful and accurate observations of M. Taupin1 show that much importance should not be attached to a symp- tom which occurs in only one-sixth of the cases, and often depends rather on some constitu- tional cause than on the local affection. In proportion as the gangrene progresses, the general symptoms become more manifest, al- though sometimes the child dies before we can perceive any well marked derangement of the economy, save a gradual sinking. Febrile 1 In eighteen out of one hundred and seven cases. Tn twenty fatal cases of dry gangrene of the cheek, of which I have preserved records, the tumefaction of tho submaxillary gland is only noted twice.