GANGRENE, HOSPITAL. 411 cd parts had been included in the eschar. On attentive examination he satisfied himself that it was always around the eschars, and on their complete detachment, that the symptoms of a second infection manifested themselves ; and he was led to conclude that the eschars retained the contagion, and communicated it to the parts with which they were in contact. He therefore resolved to envelope the eschars with disinfecting substances till after their fall, and for this purpose he made use of charpie steeped in vinegar, causing the dress- ing to be moistened with vinegar several times a day. After he commenced this prac- tice, there occurred no returns of the disease, and the cure was more rapid, more common, and more solid. Of one point we think British surgeons must now be very generally convinced ; that should epidemics of hospital gangrene again present themselves in either department of the public service, in which, from the charac- ter of the constitutional and local symptoms, the application of escharotics shall seem to promise benefit, they must lay aside their prejudices against the use of the actual cau- tery, which unquestionably possesses advan- tages to which no form of potential cautery, solid or fluid, can lay claim, both as respects the facility and certainty of its application, and the efficient manner in which it accom- plishes its purpose. When, in the progress of the disease, great destruction has taken place in the textures of a limb, so as, in the first place, to preclude the possibility of its returning to a healthy state, and, in the second place, to endanger life, by the mere extent of the disease, it be- comes the duty of the surgeon to consider how far his patient is likely to derive advan- tage from amputation, and at what period this, if it shall appear expedient, may be most ad- vantageously performed. We are indebted to some recent Indian authors for more pre- cise information as lo the results of amputa- tions performed on account of hospital gan- grene, than any, so far as we are aware, pre- viously upon record. “ Impressed with the belief,” says Mr. Leslie, “ that the constitutional symptoms were such as to forbid all prospect of advan- tage from operation, no attempt had been made to save any of the cases by this mea- sure until March, when a case occurred, attended with less constitutional disturbance than usual, in which the limb was removed, and the man was discharged well in twenty- three days. As the operation was borne well, it was resolved to give the chance to another case then in hospital, and which was most evidently sinking from inability of the con- stitution to heal so extensive an ulcer as ex- isted. Contrary to expectation, this man survived ; and three more limbs were re- moved in the course of the month. One of these operations was done, however, solely in compliance with the urgent supplication of the patient, and proved unfavourable. One other case also died. In both, extensive dis- ease existed. In April, four legs were ampu- tated, two of which recovered. These ope- rations, except perhaps the first, were done under exceedingly unfavourable circum- stances : nevertheless, five out of nine, or rather, out of eight, having recovered, proves that this measure may, without hesitation, under like circumstances, be adopted with a reasonable prospect of success. In one case the stump healed by the first intention, and the man speedily regained flesh and strength.” “ The question of amputation,” says Mr. Geddes, “ is one of primary and vital import- ance, and indeed it would be a happy circum- stance, if we could rely upon it as a safe alter- native, when other and milder measures fail us ; but I fear that, in most cases, this ultimum remedium is delayed too long, and that, under the humane but mistaken expectation of saving a limb, much more injury is done than would, caeteris paribus, have followed the earlier adoption of such a sacrifice. The sore runs so rapidly through its respective stages, progressively deteriorating, and mortification so very hurriedly supervenes, that doubts and hesitation are liable to hazard life. Waiting for the line of demarcation is only sealing our patient’s death-warrant; and decision in a case, as this indubitably is,of life or death, must be prompt and final. If a sore have resisted for three or four days all the usual means of cure ; if the subjacent tissues are becoming deeply affected, if haemorrhages supervene, if the constitution be participating to a high degree with the local affection; our only hopes of safety is in the knife, and in many instances we shall be gratified by the patient’s speedy recovery. To obviate the danger of the stump becoming contaminated with the prevailing affection, we must be careful, if possible, to remove our patient to a purer atmosphere, to inculcate the absolute neces- sity of cleanliness, and to use every precau- tion that no communication take place be- tween the convalescent and affected.” “ In the regimental hospital to which I was attached,” says the same author, “ we had in all fifteen amputations of limbs, besides toes and fingers ; and in a military hospital ad- joining my own, I assisted a medical friend in about twenty more. We saved exactly half of our patients.” Had amputation been had recourse to at an earlier period, Mr. Geddes thinks the proportion of recoveries would have been greater. He mentions, that out of about forty cases of amputated limbs, only one was met with where secondary haemor- rhage supervened, requiring amputation of the stump above the knee. In connexion with the subject of amputa- tion in cases of hospital gangrene, it may be mentioned, that M. Delpech is convinced, that even in cases in which, in consequence of the whole of a limb being destroyed to such a degree as to render its preservation absolutely impossible, so that amputation is evidently the only resource, advantage may