CYSTITIS. 858 this case, the symptoms generally are of a more moderate character, their progress slower, and the constitutional disturbance comparatively slight. The case, nevertheless, may prove serious ; and there is, besides, the grave liability of the partial, being converted into the general cystitis, which cannot be too vigilantly guarded against. The sudden and spontaneous attack of cystitis is but rarely perpetuated under a chronic form. This affection is mostly secondary, as for example when symptomatic of stone in the bladder, disease of the kidney, enlargement of the prostate gland, strictures of the urethra, and in the case of chronic catarrh, as it is called, in the aged. The most general and promi- nent symptoms are dull pain or sense of weight in the region of the bladder or peri- neum ; frequent, painful, and often difficult micturition ; urine turbid, whitish, mucose, ammoniacal, or fetid. The urine, on cooling, deposits its mucus as a whitish, ropy, and viscid substance, which adheres to the urinal. In mild cases, it retains its acid qualities, and reddens the litmus paper; but when the viscid deposit abounds, and the urine is lac- tescent or opaline, it will be often found to be alkaline, and to deposit phosphate of lime, of the consistence of plaster, on any substance with which it may be for a long time in con- tact. Usually, the general health is at first unaltered. In the progress of the disease, the appetite, sleep, and strength are impaired, the pulse is irregular, the tongue brown and dry, the thirst urgent, shiverings occur, with ex- hausting sweats, the urine is brown, sanious, and intolerably offensive, and the body wastes more or less rapidly according to the severity of these symptoms. The structures of the blad- der sooner or later experience the effect of the prolonged irritation, and the frequent excita- tion of its contractility, its muscular, and in- deed all its other tunics become partially or generally hypertrophied, and its capacity as a reservoir is thus diminished. If to this, the existence of other pathological alterations be added, such as the growth of a fungous, ve- getatious ulceration of the surface of the bladder, as indicated by a sanious, purulent, and excessively fetid discharge, life is rapidly destroyed by the accumulated miseries to which the patient falls a victim. Chronic cystitis is, however, occasionally observed, not only in a mild form, but having its progress interrupted by lengthened inter- missions, during which all, or almost all the inconveniences attending it disappear. This often happens during fine, genial weather, but the misery returns with cold, moist weather, or upon slight neglect of regimen. On examining the parts in subjects who have been afflicted with acute inflammation of the bladder, which has run a rapid course, the changes are found to be few. The mucous membrane is injected, presenting red, vascular arborizations, or dark, gangrenous patches ; it is thickened, or attenuated ; occasionally, it is softened. Sometimes, too, small collections of pus are met, either in the vesical walls, or cellular tissue adjacent. But in chronic cystitis, the pathologist cannot help being as much struck with the great diversity of the organic alterations it induces, as he had been with that of the symptoms which occur in its progress, in different individuals; and this is the case more especially in the instances where the cystitis, being but a secondary effect of a pre-existing cause, such as stone in the blad- der, disease of the kidneys, &c. it continues to fluctuate from the chronic to the acute state, and vice versa, according to the modifi- cations which the complicating affection un- dergoes. The importance of this point of view to the practical surgeon cannot be over- rated, as on it depend the measures he may adopt, and, in many cases, the ultimate suc- cess of his treatment. Chronic cystitis, as an affection per se, unquestionably presents a variety of indications ; but, as a secondary effect of some other disease, it is often so completely thrown into the shade, that its consideration is entirely subordinate to that of the primary affection. The structural alterations arising in the progress of chronic cystitis are hypertrophy, often extending to the ureters and pelvis of the kidneys, and generally with diminution of the capacity of the bladder, sometimes with- out this diminution. In the progress of the thickening, the thinnest portions of the vesical walls, being subject to frequent pressure from the urine, yield, and thus are formed those inequalities of surface, which authors describe as the sacs, or pouches, and columns of the bladder. I have seen, in a case where nu- merous calculi wrere found after death, the back wall of the bladder separated into twro muscular plans, the web of the posterior one being completed by the peritoneum, while the anterior plan was in a manner riddled with openings by which the accidental and natural cavity communicated. On cutting this por- tion of the bladder, and pressing it between the fingers, pus exuded in small quantity from different points. In the protracted and ever- recurring irritation of the bladder, arising from the presence of a stone, the consistence of its tissue becomes sometimes horny, some- times close and dense, and in appearance parenchymatous, like that of the unimpreg- nated uterus. The mucous membrane feels pulpy and thickened, and is, universally or partially, injected, and of a greyish, greenish, darkish red, purplish, or blackish hue. From the extension of the effects of the irritation to the ureters and kidneys, they are also en- larged, inflamed, and softened, and small ab- scesses, or rather collections of a muco- sanious fluid, are found in the substance of the kidney. To be able to establish readily the dif- ferential diagnosis of the various forms which cystitis, whether acute or chronic, may put on in reference to causes, is a task of much dis- crimination, and an accomplishment of no inconsiderable value for the surgeon. Books on this point are, it is true, very encouraging; but the duty of the practitioner is, neverthe-