AMPUTATION. 182 favourable result, may be added, lesions of the bone high up, from comminutive fracture, caries, necrosis, osteo-sarcoma, spina ventosa, or other incurable alterations beyond the reach of extirpation, by an amputation in the continuity of the femur. When resorted to in this description of cases, some years later, it was successful. M. A. Blandin, a surgeon in the French re- publican army, in the third year of the Re- public, operated successfully on a soldier. In a second case, he was equally fortunate ; and, in a third case, the patient survived the opera- tion fifty-eight days. The operation was again successful in the hands of Perret, another military surgeon ; and, in 1798, Mulder per- formed it, with similar good fortune, on a girl of eighteen years of age. About the com- mencement of the present century, Larrey had already operated in two cases during the Egyptian campaign. Since that period it has been performed many times in different coun- tries, and successfully too in a good many cases. Dr. Millingen is said to have operated successfully in two cases. Mr. Brownrigg was successful in the case of a soldier who was wounded at Merida, in 1812. This man was since, and perhaps is still, resident at Spalding in Lincolnshire. Mr. Guthrie suc- cessfully amputated the thigh at the hip-joint of a French prisoner, who is still living in the Hopital des Invalides, at Paris. Delpech, Orthon, Mott of New York, Wedemeyer, Syme Brice, Sir A. Cooper, and lately Mr. Mayo, have each had a successful case. It would not be an easy matter to determine the proportion of the successful to the unsuccess- ful cases; but the reverses also are numerous. In 1812, Baffos, at the Hopital des Enfans, lost a child seven years old, not in conse- quence of the operation, which, as was before observed, is not indicated in the scrofulous affection of the hip-joint, but from the pro- gress of the disease. The little patient sur- vived the operation three months : the ace- tabulum was diseased. Mr. Carmichael per- formed the operation in the year 1819, at the Richmond Hospital, Dublin, on a young wo- man of nineteen, for an osteo-sarcoma. The writer of this article, then a pupil of Mr. Car- michael’s, was present. The operation was performed with great celerity ; the patient lived only till the fifth day. The operation, even in the cases in which it is indicated, has failed in the hands of some of the most emi- nent surgeons of the day, amongst others, Sir A. Cooper, Sir B. Brodie, Dupuytren, Mr. Guthrie, Baron Larrey, Blick, Cole, Delpech, Dieffenbach, Emery, Gensoul, Clot-Bey, Roux, and Pelikan of Wilna. Various points have been indicated as guides to the articulation ; of which, in order not to embarrass the memory, we shall select only the most important. The great trochanter is easily felt; it takes a direction upwards, in- wards, is turned a little backwards, and forms a prominence about half an inch or a little more above the neck of the femur, dhe small trochanter projects about half an inch from the inside of the bone, at a nearly right angle from its axis, and is continuous with the lower part of the shaft, at an angle inclined upwards of 50° with the axis of the bone. If the patient be placed recumbent, the tube- rosity of the ischium will be an inch and a quarter in advance of the acetabulum. Again, if a perpendicular line be drawn from the anterior inferior spinous process of the ilium, the outer or anterior part of the joint will be about half an inch to the inside of the inferior extremity of this line. The articulation is most superficial in front, and corresponds with a line which would bisect Poupart’s ligament, at the union of its outer with its two inner thirds. The disposition of the capsular ligament deserves to be noticed : the head of the bone, which is nearly spherical, is not entirely sunk in the articular socket; the capsular ligament, springing from the rim of the acetabulum, covers the outer portion of the bony sphere, and shrinks in ampleness, as the bone dimi- nishes in size, to form its neck. If, therefore, the surgeon were to cut the capsular ligament low down on the neck of the bone, instead of dividing it round the edge of the acetabulum, the head of the bone being much larger than the opening made for its passage would re- main locked in the cotyloid cavity. The internal or round ligament is easily thrown on the stretch, and even brought to the edge of the acetabulum by carrying the limb out- wards. The same observation respecting the incomplete ossification of the epiphysis of the long bones may be repeated here. Up to the age of ten or twelve years, the great and small trochanter, and even the head of the femur it- self are so soft that they may be easily cut with a knife, and the surgeon should be prepared to turn this circumstance to account on an occasion. In front, the articulation is more superficial than at any other point, being here separated from the skin only by the psoas and iliacus muscles, by the rectus externally, and by the great vessels, but at some distance, internally. Behind, and on the inside, the muscular mass is very considerable. The depth of the ar- ticulation from the trochanter on the outside is considerable, but when the bone is removed there is little left to cover the acetabulum beyond the skin alone. Upon these points, therefore, must the formation of the flaps be regulated. As in the case of the disarticula- tion of the shoulder-joint, the amputation at the hip-joint is performed by all the various methods, or by processes combined from them, according to the necessities of the case, or the genius of the operator. We shall describe the principal modifications only. AMPUTATION OF THE THIGH AT THE HIP- JOINT. Flap method.—The operation is performed