620 CANCER, PATHOLOGY OF. action on the purulent or cancerous matter, w hich they cease to do on some occasions, admitting it then into their interior with its natural properties. But the occurrence of secondary carcinoma, in localities free from lymphatic communica- tion with the seat of a primary growth, re- mains to be explained. In these cases it appears hardly possible to doubt that the venous system is an agent of translation : while M. Cruveilhier affirms that such is the case with all the earnestness of conviction, Muller simply admits the possibility of the absorption and diffusion of the germinal nuclei giving rise to secondary formations. If it be true that we still w'ant the material demonstration of this—if no investigator has yet discovered the cancerous matter actually in transitu with the blood in the veins lead- ing from one diseased organ to another— still the following arguments may be adduced as affording strong presumptive evidence in favour of the reality of such transmission. 1. Cancerous matter exists in a multitude of cases in the veins of the diseased part; now this is obviously a most favourable circum- stance for its circulation with the returning blood. 2. The rapidity of the successive de- velopment of the disease in different organs, sometimes observed, seems only producible by the agency of a fluid which, like the blood, pervades them all. 3. The liver and lung, the two organs in which foreign bodies intro- duced into the circulation are almost in- variably observed to stagnate1, are by far the most frequent seat of the secondary develop- ment of carcinoma. 4. Secondary cancer in the liver and lung occupies the same elemen- tary seat as pus formed in those organs con- secutively to the existence of suppuration in a distant part of the frame (metastatic abscesses.) The granules of the former organ are in both instances the element affected2. Dr. Cars- well, arguing for the primary vitiation of the blood, affirms that the fact of absorption is disproved by minute anatomical details ; but gives us no information as to the presumed nature of these. Dr. Hodgkin is persuaded that the consistence of the matter is sufficient evidence “ of its not having been transported along the vessels in which it is found,” (of course this applies a fortiori to secondary tumours in the parenchymata) and believes its existence in the veins and lymphatics to be the result of “ inflammation of the malignant growth and the natural structures connected with it.” The fact of inflammation occurring under these circumstances is unestablished; we shall presently recur to the objection founded on the consistence of secondary for- mations. According to Muller the presence of cancer in the venous capillaries “ appears simply to indicate inflammation of those ves- sels a notion discordant with the well-esta- blished fact, that the morbid matter is found 1 Cruveilhier, Mugcndie, &c. 3 Cruveilhier. in perfectly healthy portions of the venous system. Nevertheless some apparently serious ob- jections may be raised to the doctrine of venous transmission. If such, it may be urged, be the mechanism of the production of carcinoma in distant organs, why is such pro- duction not a constant phenomenon ? why should cancerous disease ever terminate the existence of individuals w'ithout having mani- fested itself materially in more than a single spot? A satisfactory answer cannot in the present state of the science be easily found. It must, however, be recollected, that the presence of the morbid substance in the veins has not been proved to be a constant con- dition of its existence in every form of the disease ; secondly, that when the minute veins are blocked up, the circulation in the portions of tube immediately in front of the obstruction can only go forward by anasto- motic communications ; and that, thirdly, the morbid substance is in many instances com- pletely cut otf from the general circulation by sanguineous concretions. Of this last fact published engravings of carcinoma furnish examples. Another objection to this doctrine may appear in the multitude and large size of secondary formations ; it is physically impos- sible, it may be alleged, that these should have been the produce of absorption from a mass, itself smaller than many among them, and which at no period of its growth suffered apparent diminution of bulk. But it is not meant in the remotest degree (and this is the answer to those who object to the origin of secondary carcinoma in absorption on the score of its consistence) that consecutive for- mations are composed of the actual substance of the primary mass, though even this does not seem, from the evidence of infinitely rare cases, to be impossible ; the micrography of cancer shows that the translation and deposi- tion of a few cells only from the original nidus might lead to the development of the largest mass ; each cell is in itself the possible embryo of a tumour. There is yet. another fact, apparently subversive of the notion of venous transmission. The detritus and ichor of carcinoma have been injected into the veins of animals, but no development of cancerous structure has resulted from the experiment. Granted, but this simply proves—and it does so perhaps as conclusively as any other ad- ducible argument—the absolute necessity of predisposition for the production of the dis- ease ; without this even its material con- stituent manifests itself only as an irritative agent. Some curious facts are to be found in authors which at least justify what has been just said respecting the metastasis of cancerous tumours. The following is an abridged ac- count of one of these, related by Recamier on the authority of Parent Duchatelet. A wo- man, after having for a length of time suffered from a tumour in the breast possessing all the characters of non-ulcerated scirrhus, and [ire-