5 Muller’s Archiv. 1839, No. 3. ■* Treatise on Inflammation, p. 62. CICATRIZATION. of the inner margin of the lid, and suscep- tible of removal by the formation of a corres- ponding scar on the outer lid, effected either by excising a portion of the skin or by de- stroying it with the actual cautery. It deserves attention that whenever the adjunct or subjacent textures are unhealthy, the cicatrix is the point where primary or secondary disease is first developed. Thus, when a virus of any kind has been introduced into the substance of the skin, there the local symptoms are manifested, simultaneously with the phenomena of constitutional disturb- ance. It is in the cicatrix again that we gene- rally find the first traces of relapse of cancer, most commonly in the form of circumscribed indurated tubercles, prone to ulcerate from very slight causes. Bibliography.—Meibom, H. De metliodo praecavendi in Consolidandis Vulneribu9 et Ulceribus Cicatriccm. Diss. in 4to. Jena;, 1739. Bellemain, A., Sur les Cicatrices. Diss. Inaug. 4to. Paris, An XII. Langenbeck's Nosologie u. Therapie der Chirurg. Kranklieiten, Bd. II. Breschet, Diet, de Medecine; tom. v. Lichtenauer, Diss. Inaug. de Cicatrisatione, Berol. 1826. Figulus, G. G. O. Diss. Inaug. de Cicatrisatione, Berol. 1830. CICATRIZATION, Germ. Vernarbung. This term is applied to the process whereby wounds and ulcers are healed. It may take place under one of two conditions; namely, that of direct union, called healing by first in- tention ; or that of indirect union, called heal- ing by suppuration. In the instance of direct union, we find the following order of events : 1st, Effusion of fibrinous lymph. 2d, Cellular organization of this lymph ; and 3d, Inosculation of the vessels of the opposite sides. The first step towards healing, consists, according to Dr. Henle1, in the formation of the so called primary cells. These make their appearance in the scanty exudation shed betwixt the edges, or upon the surface of a wound. Their envelopes lengthen out in the shape of tubes or filaments, which by coalition with other filaments, are ulti- mately transformed into cellular substance, which is the matrix of every cicatrice. “ Dur- ing the first twenty-four hours,” says Mons. Serres, “ the membrane formed by the exuda- tion is white and areolar; in forty-eight hours, or sometimes earlier, it is already per- meated with blood-vessels ; the third or fourth day it is still more vascular. When from five to six days have been allowed to elapse, it is often so firmly organized that as much violence is necessary to rupture it as the neighbouring sound parts.” This, however, is not always the case, for sometimes the new-formed struc- ture gives way when very slight force is used. This plastic exudation, this vascular deve- lopment, takes place independently of inflam- mation ; indeed inflammation is rather an ob- stacle to the progress of cicatrization. “ Fre- quenter enim vidimus cum integrum crus 777 brachiumve abscissum esset, coaluisse tamen vulnus antequam inttammatio oboriretur1.” In the instance of union by the second in- tention, that is, by suppuration, one portion of the primary cells is gradually transformed into cellular texture, as above described, while the remainder is thrown off in the form of puru- lent matter. The formation of pus is essential to that of granulations, and is, of necessity, antecedent 2. Granulations are characterized by the uppermost layers being composed of cells quite analogous to the puriform granules, while those underneath display the envelopes of cells, exhibiting the several stages of transition into cellular fibres, as in the case of immediate union. Hence, it results that the formation of new cells proceeds always upon the surface of the granulations, while, at the same time, the organization is advancing from below up- wards. So soon as the granulations have attained the level of the superficial integu- ment, the exudation ceases, and the primary cells no longer furnish cellular texture, but skin3. It would appear, farther, that the first rudiments of blood-vessels are to be found in the primary cells, and that these cells shoot out processes, whereby inosculation takes place with each other and with the adjoining capil- laries. When the process of cicatrization is to take place on the surface of granulations, it usually commences on the edges of the ulcer, and proceeds gradually thence to the centre. Preparatory to the final act of healing, we ob- serve that the granulations on the edges of the sore are reduced to a flat surface ; the vascu- larity of the edges about to cicatrize declines, and the thin pellicle which covered the granu- lations becomes opaque and thicker. “ It is indispensable also,” observes Dr. Macartney4, “ that inflammation should have ceased in the skin immediately surrounding the sore. The blood-vessels, which previously ascended to the surface of the granulations, now give place to vessels that are extended from the skin to the surface of the cicatrix in a radiated man- ner ; as may be demonstrated by the injection of the limb with a coloured fluid, in a case of recent formation of a cicatrix. These vessels, which at first form but few cross communica- tions with each other, ultimately acquire more of the reticulated arrangement of the blood- vessels in the common skin. In proportion as cicatrization proceeds, the granulations are removed by absorption, and the surface of the ulcer daily diminishes. At last, if the adjoin- ing skin be not prevented by adhesions to the parts underneath, the cicatrix bears but a small proportion to the size of the original ulcer. We observe therefore, that when granular structure is prepared by the cessation of in- flammation, that the mode of healing bears a strong resemblance to that which takes place when open wounds are cured without inflam- 1 Galen, Adversus Erasistratcos, cap. vii. 2 Gueterbock, De Pure, p. 30. 3 Muller’s Archiv. 1839, No. 3.