100 AMAUROSIS. The severity of the cerebral symptoms in some of these cases, induces the medical atten- dant to consider the disease as existing there ; and the gastric or intestinal irritation as sym- pathetic, and it often requires a careful atten- tion to the tongue and to the character of the secretions, as well as cautious examination of the abdomen, to form a correct diagnosis. Having seen frequent error in this respect, I consider it a duty to notice it particularly. In all the cases of hemeralopia and nyctalo- pia which have come under my care (and of the former disease, I have seen numerous instances,) a cure has readily been effected by regulating the secretions, and pursuing a plan of diet, of nutritious, but not stimulating kind ; and when a healthy state of secretion has been restored, if the disease has not disappeared, a few doses of quinine or bark have speedily subdued it. We have not much opportunity of seeing the severe forms of these affections, but the accounts we have from medical men who have witnessed it in its worst degree confirm the opinion I had formed and have expressed re- specting it. Probably from its occurring particularly off certain stations, and from its peculiar type, as well as from the influence of quinine in very obstinate cases, we may fairly infer that it fre- quently results from a specific cause, which at the same time stirs up disorder in the digestive organs. I have known cerebral determination with amaurosis sympathetic with two other condi- tions of distinct irritation, as during teething and during pregnancy. Most medical men must have witnessed the frequent cerebral disturbance which occurs during the period of dentition, and must have witnessed some of the distressing effects of the continuance of this disturbance ; amauro- sis is one occasional consequence of such mischief. From irregular vascular action induced by uterine irritation during pregnancy, similar effect sometimes results, and several remark- able cases are recorded. The symptoms in either instance corre- spond closely to those already described, as resulting from gastric, intestinal, or other dis- tinct irritation ; but the disease is in each case limited to certain periods of life, during which alone the particular causes can exist. I have considered these varieties worthy of separate consideration, because demanding some modification of treatment ; thus the ir- regular cerebral circulation which occurs dur- ing dentition is speedily relieved by a free use of the gum lancet, with a careful diet, and regulation of secretions; whilst that which occurs during pregnancy usually requires little more than attention to the last-named parti- enlars, -with perhaps occasional abstraction of blood locally by leeches; for the loss of a very small quantity of blood suffices to relieve any urgent symptoms, and as the irregular vascular action cannot be entirely subdued during the continuance of the exciting cause, it would be folly to pursue medical treatment further than may be requisite to prevent severe or permanent cerebral disease. Further, this form of amaurosis is occasion- ally produced from a more immediate cause, viz. from the pressure of some cervical tumour which impedes the circulation of the brain by pressing upon the carotid artery or jugular vein. The tumours most frequently formed in this situation are glandular or aneurismal; but sometimes those of encysted or adipose cha- racter are developed. Error in diagnosis is hardly possible in such cases, and the mode of relief is obvious, though not always attainable. FUNCTIONAL AMAUROSIS FROM DEFICIENT SUPPLY OF RED BLOOD. In these cases there always exists I believe a want of general power and vigour of circu- lation at first., but in some instances of long- continued affection of this kind, the local cir- culation never regains its proper force and fulness ; and the supply of blood is inadequate to support the functions of the part, although the general system recovers its natural tone and power. Symptoms.—The disturbance of vision is gradual, and its degree frequently varies at first; the patient generally complains of gid- diness, and headacb, and the pain is usually confined to the forehead, to the summit of the cranium, or to the occipital region ; these symptoms are much relieved by quietude, by the recumbent posture, by a nutritious and slightly stimulating meal, or anything that in- creases the power of circulation, whilst they are augmented by immoderate exercise, absti- nence, or whatever tends to lessen general power. Appearances.—The pupils are generally dilated, and the motions of the irides slow ; the conjunctiva and sclerotic have usually a blanched appearance, the face is pallid, and the patient has a distressed expression of countenance. Generally the patient is chilly, has cold extremities, is restless and watchful, and the pulse is quick, somewhat feeble, and easily compressed, although the pulsation is accom- panied, in some persons, with a marked jerk. Often the patient is morbidly irritable and fretful. Causes.—All circumstances which tend to exhaust the vital fluid promote the asthenic amaurosis,—as haemorrhages, uterine, haemor- rhoidal, nasal, or from wounds ; excessive se- cretions, as in menorrhagia, diarrhoea, or in seminal discharges, from inordinate venery or onanism ; or too much or too long-con- tinued sucklings ; profuse discharges from ulcers, &c. have a similar effect, as well as a deficiency of food, or bad food, and some poisons ; and the operation of these causes is much augmented by hysterical diathesis, by influence of mind, &c. Persons naturally of feeble power are most 15