841 CORNEA. the central part only of the cornea is de- stroyed, a ring of the circumference still re- maining ; the staphylomatous projection has then the form of a small globe stuck on the front of a larger, but if disease has extended to the ciliary body, the whole front of the eye is prominent like a blunt cone. The pseudo-cornea, both in partial and in spherical staphyloma, is more or less pervaded by dark-coloured varicose vessels. A circumstance in the pathological anatomy of staphyloma worthy of being noticed is, that when the tumour attains a large size, the iris, unable to expand to the same degree as the pseudo-cornea, and its texture much more frail, separates from the choroid and becomes torn into shreds; so that when we examine the internal surface of such a staphyloma, after death, or after it has been removed by operation, we find the iris, which adheres to the pseudo-cornea, broken and reticulated ; whereas the internal surface of a staphyloma, which has not reached a great size, exhibits the iris still entire *. That the cornea and iris do not unite sur- face to surface, to form a staphyloma, may be inferred from what has been said above ; but the following considerations show that such a union is not prone to take place under any circumstances. In penetrating ulcer of the cornea, and pro- lapsus iridis, of course the prolapsed part of the iris adheres to the cornea at the one point. But though the two membranes have come into contact in the whole extent of their surfaces, in consequence of the escape of the aqueous humour through the opening in the cornea, made by the penetrating ulcer ; and though, in consequence of the attending in- flammation, the circumstances favourable for adhesion exist, still the iris does not adhere to the cornea, surface to surface, as the pleura pulmonalis does to the pleura costalis. On the contrary, as soon as the ulcerated opening in the cornea closes, so that the aqueous humour is allowed to accumulate, the iris recedes from the cornea, and the anterior chamber is re- established. The only adhesion between the iris and cornea is at the one point where the prolapsus iridis took place. Again, cases of penetrating ulcer of the cornea occur, in which the aqueous humour having escaped, and the iris come into contact with the cornea, but no prolapse of the former having taken place, no adhesion at all between the two ensues, but the iris recedes from the cornea as soon as the opening in it from the ulcer closes, and prevents the farther escape of aqueous humour. One would suppose that if adhesion between the anterior surface of the iris and inner surface of the cornea were a thing prone to take place, that it would have been observed in those cases of inflammation of the membrane of the aqueous humour in 1 Beer’s Ansicht tier etaphylomatosen Metauior- phosen des Auges; Wien, 1805. Mackenzie's Prac- tical Treatise, 3d edition, p. 572-3. London, 1840. which the operation for evacuating the latter has been performed ; but I apprehend no one ever saw such a result. In the operation for the extraction of the lens in cataract, the aque- ous humour having escaped, the iris comes into contact with the cornea, and continues so for a considerable period : but if there be no pro- lapsus iridis adhesion never takes place. If the iris does not adhere to the cornea when these two parts come into contact, from the escape of the aqueous humour, and while in a state of inflammation, much less do they ad- here, independently of the removal of that fluid. But it maybe said, it is not in consequence of such inflammations of the eye that staphy- loma occurs, but that purulent, gonorrhoeal, and variolous ophthalmia, are the most fre- quent causes of staphyloma? True ; but under what conditions does staphyloma occur in those diseases ? Not by adhesion of the iris to the cornea, surface to surface, but only when the cornea has been more or less exten- sively destroyed. Now purulent, gonorrhoeal, and variolous ophthalmiae are the very dis- eases in which, as is well-known, this takes place. Diagtiosis of partial Staphyloma.—Conical cornea can scarcely be confounded with partial staphyloma, but a form of hernia corneae re- sembles it in being prominent, but differs from it in not being so opaque, and in not having the iris adhering to it. An albugo is opaque, but not so prominent as a partial staphyloma, and as in the preceding instance free of any adhesion with the iris. A leucoma is opaque and may be combined with synechia anterior, but the adhesion of the iris is comparatively of small extent, and the prominence of sta- phyloma is wanting. Prognosis and treatment.—If the staphy- loma be small and do not implicate the pupil much, the less that is done by way of treat- ment the better, but irritation is to be guarded against, and any tendency to inflammation kept down by occasionally dropping in a solution of nitrate of silver or diluted vinum opii. In a case in which the opposite eye is injured and vision lost, if the staphyloma im- plicate the pupil, it will be proper to attempt to diminish its projection in order to pave the way for the formation of an artificial pupil. The treatment which has been adopted with this view consists in repeatedly touching the staphyloma with some caustic, such as chloride of antimony, nitrate of silver, or caustic pot- ash, in order by a slow inflammatory process to produce condensation and contraction of it. The eschar of one cauterization should be allowed to fall off, and the other effects to subside before a repetition of the caustic. The best plan is, to commence touching the base of the staphyloma at points all round, and then gradually proceeding towards the apex. The above described treatment is assisted in effecting the consolidation and flat- tening of the pseudo-cornea by frequently evacuating the aqueous humour.