ANEURISM. 260 cause the vessel to ascend as much as possible out of the chest, and the face being turned a little towards the left shoulder, an incision three inches in length was made in a horizon- tal direction, extending from the median line of the neck outwards, and above the clavicle ; a second incision of the same length was then made in a line with the internal edge of the mastoid muscle, until both met. The sternal, and part of the clavicular attachments of this muscle were then divided, and the flap turned upwards; the sterno-hyoid and thyroid muscles were then cautiously divided. The aitery was then isolated and tied. Grtefe adopted the same method in the case on which he operated ; and Mr. Porter, of Dublin, operated in a similar manner, in taking up the lower part of the carotid. Fig. 83. Fig 83 Mott's plan of tying the arteria innominaia. By a vertical and transverse incision, the inner par- tion of the sterno-mastoid m uscle is detached f rom the clavicle and raised as a Juip. At the inner border of the wound, the arteria innominaia (a ) presents itself with the internal jugular vein (b) descending to its outside, and covering the origin of the subclavian ai h iy. To the outside of the vein is seen the subclavian artery (o) giving off (e) the vertebral artery, which is here drawn forward from behind the vessel; f the inferior thyroid; g, the transverse cervical; and h, the inter- nal mammary. A ligature is placed on each of the arteries : i, c, and d, marking those of the subclavian, innominaia and carotid,. By th‘is plan it will be seen, that the subclavian artery, from its origin to the sca- lenus muscle, is cgually erposed with the innommata itself. The tendon of the scidenus is seen in the outer angle of the wound. A more simple method than the preceding has been devised by Dr. O’Donnell, of Liver- pool, and is thus described by Mr. King in his Thesis: “ Standing to the left of the patient, close to his head, which is thrown backwards, I make an incision about an inch and a half in length, along the internal border of the left sterno-cleido-mastoid muscle, beginning at the sternum and dividing the skin, cellular tissue, some of the fibres of the platysma myoides, and the middle portion of the cervical fascia. I then separate the borders of the incision, and divide the cellular line which runs be- tween the internal margins of the sterno- thyroid muscles, and introducing my left fore- finger under the right sterno-thyroid, divide with my nail or a probe-pointed bistoury, the strong sheet of the cervical fascia that exists between the muscle and the trachea. The finger passed under this fascia descends on the trachea till it touches the arteria innomi- nata, and carefully recognising the position of the artery and causing the head to be bent forwards,'I employ the same finger in carrying forwards the left subclavian, and right internal jugular veins. These veins being thus pro- tected, I pass the aneurism needle, armed with a round ligature, between my finger and the artery. The ligature being now placed round the vessel, is tightened slowly and with due precaution. The operation is by no means difficult, on the dead subject at least; nor does it expose to injury, either the pleura, or the pneumo-gastric nerve. It is, moreover, equally applicable to the subclavian and right carotid arteries, with but very slight modification. If this mode should be resorted to in placing a ligature on the right subclavian, between the scalenus posticus and the trachea, the finger must be directed more obliquely outwards, care being taken to avoid the pneumo-gastric and phrenic nerves. The best way of doing this will be to press the former inwards, and the latter outwards. The noose, formed round the artery by the recurrent nerve, may be easily felt, and of course must be avoided also. The pleura, if it should impede the operator, may be detached gently downwards. The same mode is also applicable to the left subclavian; but in this case, the surgeon stands to the right of the patient, and instead of cutting’ in the line of the muscle, on the left, he makes his incision along the internal bol- der of the right sterno-mastoid, raising the left sterno-thyroid, and sterno-hyoid muscles. The left fore-finger then descends along the left of the trachea, on the left carotid, and left side of the spine. The pneumo-gastric and phrenic nerves are set aside as before, and the pleura is detached with extreme pie- caution. The step is difficult on the dead subject, and must be much more so, and per- haps impossible, as Mr. King observes, in the living patient. The isolation ot the aitery requires much time and care, and in placing the ligature, it should be as distant as ciicum- stances will allow, from the thoracic duct, and great sympathetic nerve. The branches given off from this portion of the vessel on the right side are numerous, but this is not the case with the left subclavian, a circumstance which would weigh much in favour of the chances of a successful result. The doctrine here propounded by Mr. King had probably excited either curiosity or doubt in the minds of his examiners, more especially as regarded the ligature of the innominata, and he was accordingly requested to demonstrate what he had advanced, dead body was produced, and in the mids of the hall of the faculty, Mr. King at once satisfied his examiners and a numerous au- dience, that his plan was not only practicable, but that it might be promptly executed.