EAR, AND HEARING, DISEASES OF. 4 Considered in a general way, the surface of the auricle, which is directed outwards, is con- cave, whilst that turned towards the side of the head is convex ; the latter, however, it is to be remarked, is somewhat depressed at the places corresponding to the prominences on the outer surface, but more elevated in the situation of the depressions. The hem-like fold of the edge of the ear all round is called helix. The eminence within that is called anthelix, and the gutter-like de- pression between the two is called the navicu- lar fossa. At its upper extremity the anthelix divides into two branches, between which is a triangular depression, called fossa innominata. The lower extremity of the anthelix runs into a projection called antitragus, opposite which, and under the anterior part of the helix, is a broad projecting plate called tragus, which lies over the entrance of the auditory passage like a valve. The posterior margin of the tragus, and anterior margin of the antitragus, meet inferiorly ; but superiorly they are separated by a considerable notch. Bounded by the anthelix, tragus, and antitragus, and traversed horizontally by the commencement of the helix, is a deep cavity, called concha, at the anterior part of which is the auditory passage leading from it, as the pipe from the mouth of a funnel. The lower pendulous part of the ear is called lobule. Stripped of its investments, the auricle is found to be composed of a cartilaginous ske- leton, which presents, with some modifications, all the eminences and depressions above de- scribed, except the lobule, which consists merely of a prolonged fold of skin, with inter- vening cellular and adipose tissue. The cartilage of the auricle, though fis- sured here and there, forms but a single piece. It is covered by perichondrium, on which much of its strength and elasticity depend ; for when deprived of that investment by dissec- tion, the cartilage is found to be very brittle. It is of the class of cartilages which Miescher and Miiller describe under the name of spongy cartilages. With the fibrous structure of the perichon- drium are interwoven numerous elastic fibres, which, under the name of intrinsic ligaments, extend from one point of the cartilage of the ear to another ; and besides these, are the terminations of the extrinsic ligaments (liga- menta auricula;, anterius, posterius, et superius), which bind the auricle to the head. Two sets of muscles belong to the auricle; viz. the extrinsic, or those w hich, arising from the head and inserted into the auricle, move it as a whole ; and the intrinsic, or such as extend from one part of the cartilage to ano- ther, and arc calculated, when strong enough, to produce some change in the general form of the auricle. The extrinsic muscles of the auricle are :— 1. The elevator or superior muscle. (M. attollens auriculam, s. superior auricula.) 2. The retractor or posterior muscles. (M. re- trahentes auriculam, s. posteriores auricula.) 3. The anterior muscle. (M. attrahens auricu- lam, s. anterior auricula.) The intrinsic muscles of the auricle are :— 1. The larger muscle of the helix, (iff. helicis major.) 2. The smaller muscle of the helix. (M. helicis minor.) 3. The muscle of the tragus, (iff. tragicus.) 4. The muscle of the antitragus. (M. antitragicus) 5. The trans- verse muscle. (AT. transversus auricula.) The skin of the auricle, which adheres inti- mately to the unequal surface of the cartilage, less so to its back and circumference, contains a number of sebaceous follicles, particularly in the concha, and around the entrance of the auditory passage. The auditory passage.—The auditory pas- sage is a canal of an oval calibre, the long diameter of which is directed from below' up- wards, and from behind forwards. It leads from the auricle to the tympanum, from the cavity of which it is separated by the inter- position of the membrana tympani. In front of it lies the joint of the lower jaw ; behind is the mastoid process. In the adult its length is about an inch and a quarter, and its direc- tion is at first somewhat forwards, then up- wards and backwards, and lastly downwards and forwards again. Its lower wall is from one-tenth to one-fifth of an inch longer than the upper. The outer portion of the auditory passage has its wall composed partly of cartilage and partly of fibrous cellular tissue. The inner portion is osseous. Cartilaginous and membranous portion of the auditory passage.—This portion, about half an inch long, is formed in front and below by a triangular plate of cartilage, and above and behind by dense elastic fibrous tissue, which extends from the cartilage of the concha to the upper and posterior part of the margin of the external orifice of the osseous part of the auditory passage. The plate of cartilage is attached by one edge to the anterior and lower part of the mouth of the osseous pas- sage by means of dense and strong cellular tissue, and by the other edge to the auricle. The cartilage of the auditory passage, though presenting a fissure from its base towards its apex, and separated from the auricle at the base of the tragus by the intervention of an- other fissure, forms but a single continuous piece, not only in itself, but also with the car- tilage of the auricle. The fissures alluded to arc called incisura santoriniana. They are filled with elastic tissue, and while motion is permitted between the corresponding edges, additional elasticity is, by means of them, im- parted to the whole cartilage. It is in conse- quence of this structure that the outer por- tion of the auditory passage is so dilatable as to allow a view of the bottom of the passage being obtained. Osseous part of the auditory passage.—This leads from the outside of the temporal bone, and is about three quarters of an inch long. The margin of its outer orifice is rough and irregular, to give attachment to the cartila-