CANCER, PHYSIOLOGY OF. G07 coats (as long since described by Sir C. Bell1) ; but he admits that the fact of free encephaloid masses being found in the interior of vessels with sound parietes is not thus explicable. Now these pathologists have not endea- voured to prove what is absolutely necessary for the establishment of the doctrine of the production of encephaloid matter in the blood itself or by the coats of the capillary veins : they have not shown that such matter is ever detected in the venous system in cases where no such morbid deposit has pre-existed in the cellular structure of the solids. Hence they have furnished no evidence contradictory of the much easier and more natural explana- tion that the diseased masses in the venous coagula had found their way into the veins by absorption. It seems highly probable, too, from recent microscopical researches, that in some of the instances referred to, the sub- stance presumed to be encephaloid was not really of that description. Such was the state of knowledge on the subject when Dr. Carswell announced him- self an advocate of the origin of carcinoma in the blood. This pathologist does not found his conviction on the mere existence ot can- cerous matter in tlie veins; he affirms not only that the morbid production may be dis- covered in vessels having no direct communi- cation with an organ affected with the same disease (as when confined to a small extent of the vena porta), but that there are cases in which the venous blood alone is found to be the seat of the morbid accumulation. Of the first of these observations we readily admit the accuracy, but it by no means disproves the fact of venous absorption. There does not seem to be any direct communication between the parenchyma of the lungs and the bones of the extremities ; yet the celebrated experiments of M. Cruveilhier show that a single globule of mercury introduced into the medullary cavity of the femur may be detected weeks after in the pulmonary tissue. Nay more, they have proved that mercury, introduced into any part either of the general or portal venous systems, may reach in the first instance the capillaries of the liver, in the second those of the lung. With respect to the second observation, we can only say, that among a vast number of post-mortem examinations, conducted by men familiarized with such researches, we have never seen a case of the description referred to, we have never heard of one, and we have in vain searched periodical works for details demon- strating the reality of its occurrence. Were the fact substantiated it would furnish strong evidence of a primary cancerous alteration of the blood, provided the adjoining venous structure were shown to be wholly unimpli- cated ; but while unsupported by a full narra- tive of the cases from which it professes to derive, the doctrine of such alteration, no matter how eminent the individual by whom 1 Surg. Obs. vol. ii. p. “405, 1818. it is adopted, can only, we apprehend, be regarded in the light of an hypothesis *. The fact that the heterologous substance is not discovered in the arterial system (Cru- veilhier’s statement [p. 594] requires substan- tiation) is accounted for by Dr. Carswell by supposing that the contractile power of the arteries prevents stagnation of their contents: how far this may be considered an answer to an obvious argument against his theory, we are unprepared to say ; it is certain that it is far from convincing. Further, as Dr. Carswell regards the depo- sition of carcinoma, through the processes of nutrition and secretion, as the result of its separatum from the blood, cancerous vitiation of that fluid, preceding the origin and co- existing with the growth of the local malady, is a sine qua non of the development of the latter : according to him the blood is, in a word, the sole primary seat of the disease. Hence the material element of the affection is in circulation in cases, for instance, ot scirrhus of the mamma, which remains almost stationary for years, is unattended with se- condary formations in other parts of the frame, and gives rise to no marked constitutional disturbance. Now this idea is by others re- jected as inadmissible ; can we readily com- prehend, they allege, how blood holding cancer in suspension can furnish the materials of normal secretions and perform its functions in such manner as to cause no perceptible de- viation from the standard of health? How comes it again, it is urged, if this doctrine be well founded, that after the removal of a cancerous tumour the process of cicatrization frequently goes through its stages with regu- larity, though when the patient dies, one or more viscera are found affected with the disease in such manner as to leave little doubt, in some cases none, that the morbid growths discovered in them were in existence before the performance of the operation. It these facts are reconcileable with the theory espoused by Dr. Carswell, he has at least failed to make manifest their compatibility therewith. For our own part, while we dis- tinctly avow that the difficulty of explaining the apparent contradictions involved in this doctrine furnishes no proof of its unsoundness, we reject it as unestablished by experience. Again, thoug'h we look upon it as almost demonstrated that cancerous matter found in the veins has in the majority of cases come there by absorption (see the section on Pa- thology), yet we are by no means desirous of upholding an exclusive opinion on the matter. Facts well observed prove, in the first place, that growths external to those vessels, in some instances perforate their coats, protrude into. 1 Granting that cancerous matter be discovered in the interior of the blood-vessels, it would be necessary to prove its absence not only from the cellular stiuc- ture of the trunk and extremities and various viscera, but from the substance of the bones, before we become entitled to affirm that it is exclusively contained in those tubes.