G70 CANCER. 1 Gaz. Med. de Pans, p. 541. 1835. ' Med. Gaz. vol- xviii. p. 575. 1834. neous surface. The salivary and the lympha- tic glands become enlarged and painful; the latter especially may be infiltrated with scir- rhus. General contamination of the system is comparatively rare ; a remarkable instance of its occurrence, wherein the heart was the seat of numerous cancers, has been related by Mr. Coates'. Labial cancer, rather frequent among males, is singularly rare in the other sex. It almost invariably affects the lower lip, and seems not uncommonly to acknowledge as an exciting cause, the irritation of a pipe or tobacco-juice. But the inadequacy of this to produce the disease in a non-predisposed subject appears from the consideration, as Mr. Travers excel- lently well observes, that “ of the number of smokers the proportion of persons so affected does not exceed that of cancerous to sound persons.” Rough and prominent edges of teeth act in a similar way. When the cancerous nature of the disease is established, no time should be lost in re- moving it. Destruction with caustic has had its advocates, and may be had recourse to in the case of timorous patients, but the knife is greatly preferable. The indurated mass may be removed by two straight converging incisions meeting inferiorly at a point: a tri- angular portion of tissue is thus cut away, precisely as in the hare-lip operation ; the exposed edges are then brought together by the twisted suture. If, however, the disease occupy a large share of the lip, this mode of removal is inapplicable; and a semi-circular or crescentic section must be substituted for it. Mr. Travers, who has made trial of this plan, mentions the disuse of sutures as one of its principal advantages, and states that in a case where the removal extended to the frae- num, the natural appearance of the part was eventually in a great measure restored—“the cut surface takes a depth of colour, a plump- ness, and a defined border, which has much the appearance of the natural surface.” M. Begin, arguing upon the contraction of the lip which follows the triangular excision, and the disfiguring protrusion of the sound lip en- tailed thereby, seems to consider that it should be abandoned altogether in favour of the cres- centic operation ; it is true, he admits, that the gradual elongation of the divided substance re- moves the deformity referred to to a certain extent, but the traction exercised on the labial tissue during this process may, he conceives, contribute to the reproduction of the disease. Dupuytren, likewise an advocate for the semi- circular section, performed it with a pair of strong curved flat scissors ; a bistoury is more commonly employed. The wound should be covered with a little moistened lint kept in situ by a double-headed bandage passing over the vertex and occiput. The saliva escapes at first abundantly from the mouth, but the reparative efforts of nature usually remove this serious inconvenience: should this not be the case, a silver lip may be adapt- ed to the part; or the lost tissues, as recom- mended by Mr. Earle, restored by cheilo- plasty. The angles of the mouth should be spared, if this can be safely done. The position of the disease sometimes re- quires an impromptu modification of the or- dinary modes of operating. In a case of can- cer occupying the right half of the upper lip, and extending to beneath the left ala of the nose, M. A. Berard removed the mass by two straight parallel incisions perpendicular to the lip and united by a transverse one at the base. Two lateral flaps were then formed by prolonging the transverse incision to the border of each masseter, and by slitting up the cheek from the commissure of the lips to the same point. Each flap, of rectangular shape, had three of its borders free ; having been drawn towards each other, the inner edges of these were next united by the twisted su- ture ; the upper similarly fixed to the cheeks and lower part of the nares, and the inferior united in the same way, as far as the com- missures of the mouth ; part of the inferior cut edge formed the free border of the new lip. The wounds cicatrized by first intention, and the new lip subsequently assumed the appearance of a natural one on which the hare-lip operation had been successfully per- formed'. (b.) Gums.—See Maxilla. (c.) Tongue.—Lingual cancer, which, as far as we have been able to ascertain, is almost invariably of the scirrhous species, commences—1, As a small distinctly circum- scribed but somewhat knotted tumour, ge- nerally seated in the anterior part of the organ midway between the raphe and one edge, and rarely extending beyond the middle line; 2, or as a small excrescence, which eventually in some instances becomes pedun- culated ; 3, or cancerous deposition in rare cases complicates simple ulceration, produced, for example, by the contact of a carious tooth: 4, or, in still rarer instances, erectile tumours become the seat of such deposition. In either case the surface ulcerates (the mass may have acquired such size as to extrude the tongue from the mouth before this change occurs) and presents the usual phenomena and appearance of carcinomatous ulcers, the fungous formations sometimes assuming the cauliflower shape and attaining large dimensions. The progress of the dis- ease is in some cases extremely rapid : Mr. Warren records an instance in which eleven weeks sufficed to change a “small hard lump on the edge of the tongue into an extensive ulcerated fungus, rising a quarter of an inch above its surface, and covering half its breadth.” The ulceration may spread to the buccal and gingival mucous membrane, while the non-ulccrated part becomes covered with warty vegetations. The sublingual and sub- maxillary lymphatic glands undergo the or-