ANKYLOSIS. 311 of joints. Crowther, whose experience was very considerable, says, “ I have seen but two cases of the knee, and one of the elbow, anky- losed by ossific union,” and so far as my own observation extends the inference to be drawn from his testimony is confirmed. The fallacy has probably arisen, partly from the inspection of pathological museums, for which the speci- mens of osseous ankylosis are treasured up, while those of ligamentous union are often thrown aw’ay, and partly from a common, though erroneous belief, that soft ankylosis always admits of some degree of motion. Nor is it correct to suppose, that, where the union has been at first ligamentous, it necessarily becomes, in process of time, bony, by the in- filtration of earthy particles. Some years ago, I dissected a knee-joint which had been perfectly motionless for thirty years, and was surprised to find a very dense layer of liga- ment, and not bone, connecting the articular extremities. Perfect rest, and a proximity of the surfaces of diseased bone, are, probably, conditions essential to the formation of true ankylosis. Hence, in proportion to the num- ber of recoveries from ulcerative disease of the hip-joint, as compared with the number of recoveries from similar disease in the knee- joint, true ankylosis is more frequent in the former articulation than in the latter. I am also inclined to believe, that true ankylosis more frequently follows caries of the articular extremities, than simple inflammation of bone, or ulceration of cartilage. This opinion is founded on the extraordinary tendency to the irregular and profuse deposit of bone which accompanies the recovery from caries. The new deposit is distinguishable from the origi- nal formation by its greater density and hard- ness, and is often thrown into miniature spires and projections which create an appearance, on a small scale, scarcely less beautiful than that of finely carved wood-work. I have in my possession a tibia of this description which is absolutely ornamented by the delicacy and varied form of the new incrustation. After caries of the vertebrae, considerable masses of bone are frequently formed, which arch over from one vertebra to another, and establish what Cruveilhier calls ankylosis by invagina- tion. When true ankylosis has taken place, the bones are united into one piece—that is to say, there is no line of demarcation between them, and their areoles communicate. The liability of particular classes of joints to ankylosis is a subject on which no very de- cided opinion can be given. Surgical writers have generally agreed in saying, that the gin- glymoid joints are more liable to ankylose than the orbicular, from the size and figure of the articular surfaces, and the number of liga- ments and tendons surrounding the articula- tions. If it be meant by this to intimate, that the diseases which give rise to ankylosis more frequently afi'ect ginglymoid than orbicular joints—as, e. g. that the knee is more fre- quently diseased than the hip, and the elbow, than the shoulder: the assertion is correct; but this by no means settles the only interest- ing point in the inquiry, viz. whether there is any thing in the form or office of one class of joints to dispose them to ankylose more readily than the other, wrhen the same causes are operating on both. We shall not howr- ever err in affirming, that the joints, such as those of the carpal and tarsal bones, which do not enjoy much motion, are, in proportion, more liable to ankylosis than others. The liability of particular joints is a subject which does not require much observation. As a general rule, it may be said that we have only to ascertain the degree of a joint’s liability to disease, in order to determine the degree of its liability to ankylosis. Some exception, however, must be made to this. Disease of the hip-joint is very common, but ankylosis of that joint is sufficiently rare. To account for this it must be borne in mind, that patients rarely have strength to carry them through the morbus coxarius, if it has been allowed to advance to that stage in which ankylosis is the only cure. A stiff elbow is therefore more common than a stiff hip, because disease of the hip is more frequently mortal than dis- ease of the elbow. This modifying circum- stance being taken into consideration, it may be affirmed that, in proportion to the fre- quency of their diseases, the small joints are more liable to ankylosis than the large, be- cause the affections of the latter are often mortal. Of all the joints, those which most rarely undergo ankylosis are those of the atlas to the dentata, and the inferior maxilla to the temporal bone, and it is remarkable that im- mobility of these articulations would be far more serious than of any other. A patient, was admitted some years ago into Guy’s Hos- pital who presented specimens of both these phenomena. They had gradually come on after exposure to cold, and had been accom- panied by rheumatic pains. He suffered great agony in attempting to bend the head, and could take only small quantities of liquid nourishment. He died in the hospital, and the two joints may be seen in its museum. In the same museum, there is another specimen of ankylosis between the atlas and dentata; and in this case, the atlas is joined by bony union to the occiput. Eustachius has de- scribed a case of ankylosed lower jaw; and another came under the notice of Cruveilhier, in which the affection had come on during the patient’s childhood. She lived, nevertheless, to be an old woman, could speak very clearly, and was able to masticate food by pressing it with the tongue against the sides and edges of the teeth. Ankylosis of the atlas to the occiput is a less uncommon and less serious occurrence. I have seen several specimens of it, one of which was supposed to have been congenital. The symptoms of ankylosis have been almost sufficiently enumerated when it has been de- scribed as an insusceptibility of motion, both active and passive. It w'ould be a blunder to describe as symptoms of the affection, those