402 ARTHRITIS, TRAUMATIC. more formidable train of symptoms than that presented in acute traumatic arthritis, and it too often happens when twenty or thirty hours have been suffered to pass away after the accident, without excision or amputation, that an opportunity has been lost which can never be restored. “ Let us suppose,” says Dupuy- tren *, “ one of the large articulations sur- rounded with muscles, tendons, and aponeu- rotic membranes filled with spicula, inflamed, suppurating, full of pus, and we shall have an idea of the gravity of the wound.” It ought ever to be remembered, that life is the sacred deposit which is entrusted to our keeping, and that the churchyard often contains unanswer- able arguments against the rules deduced from a few glittering cases. 2. The articulating extremities of the wounded joint may be excised, and the case treated subsequently as a compound fracture. Whatever may be thought of the excision of joints, idiopathically diseased, the general con- sent of surgeons has established the propriety of the measure when the lesion of the joint is traumatic; and the weight of testimony in its favour seems unanswerable. In 1814, Baron Percy informed Mr. Crampton, that by ex- cising the articular extremities, he had re- peatedly succeeded in saving limbs which otherwise must have been amputated1 2 3 4. In the campaign of Egypt, Larrey3 ten times excised the head of the humerus, in cases in which he would otherwise have amputated at the shoulder-joint, and nearly all the patients recovered. In one remarkable case, he re- moved, with perfect success, the head of the humerus, the acromion process, the acromial extremity of the clavicle, the glenoid cavity, and part of the spine of the scapula. Sir Astley Cooper4 records an immense number of cases of compound dislocation ol the ankle- joint, in which the articulating extremity of the tibia was sawn off, and the results of the practice are contained in the following re- markable declaration :—“ I have known no case of death when the extremities have been sawn off; although I shall have occasion to mention some in which the cases terminated fatally when this has not been done.” The testimony of Hey, Taylor, Parke, Wachter, Balguer, and Guthrie, might be also quoted as to the efficacy of this measure. “ As to the great articulations,” says Dupuytren5, “ if the lesions are not extensive, and are confined to a single bone, we may substitute the resec- tion of the injured bone for amputation.” The main advantage presented by excision is the preservation of the limb in a certain state of efficiency. The injured bone is re- moved, and a clean incised surface substituted for it; the cartilage, of which the ulceration can scarcely be prevented, is also removed, 1 Lemons Orales dc Clinique Chirurg. Paris, 1832, torn. ii. 2 Dublin Hospital Reports, vol. iv. 3 Mem. de Chirurg. Militaire, tom. iii. ■> Sir A. Cooper on Dislocations and Fractures. 5 Leqons Orales, tom. ii. and much of the highly organized synovial membrane shares the same fate. The spas- modic contractions of the muscles, often productive of great mischief, and always of great distress, are prevented by the shorten- ing of the limb which ensues, and the conse- quent relaxation of muscular fibre; no sharp osseous spicula are left to create and main- tain irritation ; adhesion between the sawn surface of one bone, and the cartilaginous surface of the other, is more readily affected ; and the pabulum, so to speak, of high inflam- matory action being removed, the constitu- tional suffering is greatly diminished. “ The constitutional irritation,” says Sir Astley Cooper \ when speaking of excision in com- pound dislocation of the ankle-joint, “ is very much lessened, both by the suppurative and ulcerative process being diminished, and the ease with which the parts are restored. In the cases which I have had an opportunity of seeing, there was not more irritative fever than in the mildest cases of compound frac- ture.” After excision, ankylosis, sometimes osseous, but more commonly ligamentous, en- sues. Larrey noticed, that when union took place by the first intention the bones became consolidated. Usually the bones are united to one another by ligamentous fibres of vary- ing length and flexibility, but always admitting of a certain degree of motion, and the injured limb often acquires great strength and dex- terity. The circumstances under which excision is applicable remain to be stated. It may be practised immediately after the accident when the lesion is confined to the head of the bone. If the epiphysis be splintered, or a portion broken off, and the joint widely exposed, the most alarming result may be anticipated, if excision be not employed. If the body of the bone be much injured, and long fissures extend from the epiphysis downwards ; or if the soft parts be so much lacerated and contused as to forbid the hope that the vitality of the limb can be preserved, excision will be contra-indi- cated. It may also be laid down as a general rule, that the excision of the joints of the lower extremities is unadvisable, while in the upper extremities its utility is very great. The causes of these differences are obvious. “ Art may provide a clumsy substitute for the inferior extremities ; but no ingenuity has hitherto succeeded in supplying the defi- ciency of that wondrous organ, the human hand. It is also evident from the purposes to which the inferior limbs are destined, that to be useful at all, each must possess a degree of strength corresponding to that of the oppo- site side. The two lower limbs constitute a single organ : they must unite to perforin the functions for which they are designed ; and one limb is of little use without the other, or a substitute of equivalent strength. The upper extremities, on the contrary, are two perfectly distinct and independent organs, capable of be- 1 Cooper and Travers's Surgical Essays, part ii.