ANEURISM. 252 dinal incision, from an inch and a half to two inches in length, is made in the direction of the vessel. This incision, which divides only the skin and cellular tissue, and runs between the tendons of the supinator radii longus, and palmaris longus, terminates within half an inch of the wrist-joint. This exposes an aponeu- rosis, which being carefully divided on a di- rector, the artery presents itself to view, be- tween two veins; the radial nerve lies at some distance to its outside. In isolating the artery, it should not be detached from its con- nexions to a greater extent than is necessary for passing the ligature beneath it. It may be raised indifferently from without, inwards, or from within outwards. (See No. 2, fig. 77.) Fig. 77. Fig. 77. No. 1, a, the ul- nar artery, the black lines indicating the veins at each side of it; b, the ulnar nerve ; c c, the ligature passed under the artery; d, a blunt hook. No. 2, a, the radial ar- tery, the black lines on each side of it repre- senting the veins ; b, the radial nerve; c c, the ligature, lying across the wound. No. 3, a, the ulnar ar- tery, the black lines on each side of it repre- senting the veins; b, the ulnar nerve; c c, the ligature lying aslant the wound ; d, a retracting hook. No. 4. a, the ulnar artery, its accompanying veins represented by the dark lines at each side of it; b, the ulnar nerve ; c d, the ligature passed un- der the vessel; e, a blunt hook retracting the ra- dial edge of the inci- sion. Ulnar artery, above the wrist.—In this re- gion, the ulnar artery lies on the flexor pro- fundus, covered by its own aponeurosis, the tendon of the flexor carpi ulnaris, the sub- cutaneous cellular tissue and skin. An inci- sion of the same length, and parallel to that for the operation just described, lays open the skin and adipose tissue ; the tendon is drawn away towards the ulnar edge of the fore-arm, and the aponeurotic sheath covering the artery carefully divided, on a director. The artery is thus brought into view, lying between its two accompanying veins, the ulnar nerve being ajlittle behind, and to its ulnar side. (See No. 3, fig. 77.) The ligature is passed beneath the artery from the ulnar to the radial side. Ulnar artery at the upper third, of the fore- arm.—The ulnar artery crosses from the point of bifurcation of the brachial, covered by the fleshy mass formed by the muscles arising from the inner condyle of the humerus. At the junction of the upper and middle thirds of the fore-arm, where it first becomes acces- sible for the ligature, it reposes on the flexor profundus, covered by the sublimis, and flexor carpi ulnaris. In this course, it corresponds with a line drawn obliquely from the middle of the bend of the arm, to the junction of the upper and middle thirds of the fore-arm ; from this point, it proceeds in nearly a straight line, down to the radial side of the pisiform bone. Its anomalies, however, are not unfrequent, and it will now and then be found running more superficially, or nearer to the radial. A vertical incision from two to three inches long, commencing about three fingers’ breadth below the bend of the arm, is made in the cellular line that separates the flexor sublimis from the flexor carpi radialis. This line, being divided, the muscles superficial and deep-seated, are separated with the fingers, or the handle of the bistouri. The artery, with its two accompanying veins, is thus exposed ; the nerve is on its ulnar side, and more super- ficial. (See No. 1, fig. 77.) The needle should be introduced from the ulnar side, between the nerve and artery. At this step of the opera- tion, the fore-arm should be slightly bent. Radial artery at the u]>per third of the fore- arm.— As we ascend the fore-arm, both the radial and ulnar arteries become deeper seated, and this arises, in consequence of the muscles which terminate in tendons below, being thick and fleshy above. A line drawn from the middle of the bend of the arm to the inside of the styloid process of the radius, will give a tolerably correct idea of the course of the radial artery. In the upper third of the fore- arm, it lies on the flexor profundus, covered by the flexor sublimis, and flexor carpi radialis. The incision should be at least two inches long, beginning about three fingers’ breadth below the joint, and should be carried ob- liquely in the line of the artery and along the ulnar edge of the supinator radii longus. If the superficial radial vein run in the line of the incision, it should be carried to the radial side of the wound. On dividing the skin, the aponeurotic line that unites the flexor sub- limis and flexor carpi radialis, is exposed to view. These muscles are separated, and the long supinator being raised, the aponeurosis covering the artery is seen. This being di- vided on the director, the artery with its sa- tellite veins is seen, having the radial nerve a little to its radial side. (See No. 4, fig. 78.) The needle is passed under the vessel from the ulnar to the radial side ; if the hand and fore-arm be bent, this step will be facilitated. In operating for traumatic aneurisms in the fore-arm, the ligature should be placed as near the wound of the vessel, as circumstances will allow ; as otherwise, from the number of