ENDOSTEITIS. 132 precision, but that under certain conditions it is extremely brief appears from the rapidity with which the next phasis, that of suppuration, sets in on the endosteal surface exposed by amputation. Pus may accumulate in minute spots, which by increasing and running into each other form abscesses of some size (a size of course always proportional to the space in which suppuration occurs) ; or a greater or less extent of the tissue may be infiltrated with that fluid. The infiltration extends to the cancellated texture. A mode of termination of this inflamma- tion, which the phenomena of disease of the bony tissue itself prove to be of proportion- ally great frequency, is sphacelus. The total interruption of circulation upon which this change depends necessarily influences the vascular condition of the adjoining tissue ; the circulation of this also is arrested, and necro- sis of the internal stratum of the shaft follows as a necessary consequence. The progress of endosteitis, in the great majority of cases, places it among essentially acute diseases, when it is the result of ampu- tation or injuries, with breach of surface and exposure. Even under these circumstances, however, it may run a comparatively slow course, and a chronic character almost always marks the disease when depending upon in- ternal causes, or external influences unat- tended with solution of continuity in the bone. Examples of chronic endosteitis are those cases of abscess of the central cavity, and more especially of the articular heads of the bones, of which not a few examples are now upon record. A rarer appearance in the chronic state is induration and thickening, with grey or dirty red discoloration of the medulla, attended with shrivelling of its sub- stance. This shrivelling of tissue manifestly depends upon the slow contraction, co-ad- vancing with the organization of the fihrine exuded during the acute stages. And in all probability, the grey discoloration (depend- ing immediately upon impaired freedom of the circulatory movements) the induration and reduced size of the endosteum and me- dulla, all of them so clearly traceable to the contractile power of the fibrine, are not the most important phenomena due thereto. On reviewing the striking effects produced in various tissues, and under various circum- stances, by the contraction of plastic exuda- tions, it seems in a very high degree probable that, (arising as this contraction does in the present instance, in a tissue of extreme deli- cacy, the vessels of which are especially dis- tinguished by the thinness of their coats,) it may to such extent obstruct the motions of the blood in those vessels, as nearly or totally to arrest the circulation in the adjoining bony layers. Even the occurrence of rupture of the delicate communications between tho membrane and the bone appears to be in this manner not impossible. Now if either of these states is produced, necrosis of the Irony layers referred to must be the result. We have not as yet observed a convincing speci- men of such mode of progress of the disease, but offer the notion of its occurrence as a conjecture based upon, we believe, very plausible grounds. Should it receive the sanction of experience, it will have explained one class of cases of necrosis, the mode of formation of which has hitherto eluded inves- tigation. It must be observed that chronic endos- teitis, still more rarely than acute, exists without concomitant changes in the bony structure characteristic of inflammatory action. Nodules of bone in the state of rarefaction or condensation—the latter may amount even to eburnation—both of them effects of that action, may be frequently seen in the neighbourhood of inflamed endosteum ; but it is occasionally no easy matter to determine in which tissue the disease originated. See Osteitis. Inflammation of the endosteum plays a prominent part in the phenomena of central and articular caries. The total separation of carious fragments from their surrounding con- nections, is commonly the result of suppura- tion and destruction of the portion of endos- teum investing them, whereby their vascular supply is completely cut off. This is excel- lently seen in the cancellated heads of the long bones. Endosteitis is among the causes of the puru- lent impregnation of the blood accompanied by metastatic abscesses in the viscera, the lungs and liver especially, which prove among the most frequent causes of death in operations requiring division of bony structure. In inju- ries of the head, this inflammation affecting the diploe, holds the same relation to the purulent collections in the liver. That these secondary purulent accumulations are the result of sup- puration in the endosteum, is firmly esta- blished by the fact, that in some such cases no other tissue in the body is the seat of pri- mary suppurative inflammation. Although the delicate veins of the membrane have not been demonstrated to be the seat of the anatomical changes of inflammation, the general history of metastatic abscesses shows it to be extremely probable that those changes really exist. See Phlebitis. We shall not infringe upon the article Fracture, by tracing the phenomena occur- ring in the endosteum, during the formation of the provisional and permanent callus. Of the causes inducing inflammation in the endosteum more especially, nothing is as yet distinctly known. The subject at present merges in that of inflammation of bone gene- rally ; but the peculiarities of structure of the membrane seem to justify the notion that the advancement of knowledge will provide en- dosteitis with an etiology of its own. When the cause acts simultaneously upon the other component tissues of the bone, as after ampu- tation, the inflammation of the endosteum, the first to appear, is commonly rapidly followed by affection of the bony substance. From what has been already stated, it fol-