172 AMPUTATION. little use. If, however, the surgeon should prefer it, the bone should be sawed in splice, in the same manner as recommended for the first metatarsal (fig. 35). Fig. 36. Amputation of the metatarsal bone of the little toe in the continuity; the flap is thrown back towards the heel, and the bone is seen sawed in splice. The oval method, performed as already de- scribed for the little finger, will be the most suitable. Amputation of the middle metatarsal bones in the continuity.—The rules laid down for the removal of the metacarpal bones to which the reader is referred, arc again strictly applicable to the metatarsals. The bones are to be sawed off, one after the other, and the same precautions should be taken to prevent the fusing of pus along the tendinous sheaths. Fig. 37. Fig. 37. Amputation of the middle metatarsal bone in the continuity. The small fig. shows the bone and toe that have been removed; the bone has been salved transversely, which is not so advantageous as the splice section. PARTIAL AMPUTATIONS OF THE FOOT. Prior to the establishment of partial ampu- tations of the foot as a rational surgical pro- ceeding, the only resource for the lesions, which are now treated by this form of ope- ration was the amputation of the leg itself; a resource involving the loss of all the sound parts between the place to which the disease was limited and the leg. The suc- cessful results of attempts to save the wrist, by partial amputations of the hand, at length opened the eyes of surgeons to the possibility of avoiding the unnecessary sacrifice of the ankle and heel. It was not, however, till the time of Chopart that the process began to ob- tain confidence. Partial amputations of the foot are men- tioned by Garengeot as performances of great difficulty, from the number and irregularity of the joints and ligaments. These amputations are performed at two particular points: in the articulation of the astragalus and os calcis, with the scaphoid and cuboid ; and at the junction of the metatarsal with the tarsal bones. Sharp and Hey were among the early advocates of these disarticu- lations ; but, although they may have been executed by others prior to that period, the operation is first mentioned as having been Fig. 38. successfully performed in this country by Mr. Turner of North Yar- mouth, in 1787'. It was also performed in 1789 by Baron Percy, and in 1793 by Larrey. Those, however, who had performed it suc- cessfully, described it vaguely, and almost in terms of discourage- ment to those who might be disposed to imitate them. In con- sequence of which, the partial amputation of the foot did not receive all the attention it de- served until the year 1815, when the pre- sentation of an able me- moir by Lisfranc to the Institute of France, made it a subject of discussion. Fig. 38. Skeleton of the foot. The articular interlines are shown very distinctly, and ivill serve as useful guides in studying the partial amputations of the foot. Amputation of the metatarsal bones in their articulations with the bones of the tarsus.—These articulations range the foot transversely, but in a line extremely irregular and intricate. The bones composing this line of junction are the three cuneiforms, and the cuboid on the one hand, with the five metatarsals on the other. The obliquity of the line is so great, that its commencement at the inside of the foot is nearly an inch farther forward than its termination on the side of the little toe. The prominence of the tarsal end of the metatarsal bone of this toe will serve as a guide to the interline that separates this bone from the cuboid. If a line be drawn from this point straight across to the inside of the foot, the interline separating the metatarsal of the great toe, and the cuneiform will be three- fourths of an inch further forward towards the toe. This interline will also be easily dis- covered under the skin, by feeling towards the sole of the foot for the two prominences formed, just at their junction, by the cuneiform and the metatarsal bones ; the line between them is that of their articulation. From this point, if we trace the articular interline, on referring to plate (38) we shall sec that it runs 1 Hutchison’s Practical Observations, p. 70.