CAUSTICS. 751 seventeenth volume, of the Medical Gazette. It is one of the great truths of modern physio- logy that the vital and chemical forces are antagonists to each other, and. hence those parts in which the vitality is feeble are soonest affected by chemical agents. Thus we may conceive how the morbid albumen of cancer, prone to spontaneous changes, is more readily affected than the surrounding parts, by the above phagedenic substance. Bichloride of Mercury, or Corrosive Sublimate, acts very superficially as a caustic, and at the same time produces considerable local inflammation. It should be applied to a surface of small compass only, otherwise it may enter the circulation and occasion symp- toms of poisoning. The resulting eschar is of a pure white colour, soft, and of little thick- ness, separating in two or three days. The troches of minium, so serviceable in the in- stance of fistulous sores, following abscess in the inguinal and axillary regions, owe their activity to this preparation. The tubular eschar which ensues is uniformly thrown off upon the third day, and prompt cicatrization follows, provided a gentle degree of compres- sion be used. The bichloride has been ap- plied with advantage to erectile tumours, spongy excrescences, condylomata, and syphi- liticsores. Plenk advises the affected part to be touched by means of a camel-hair pencil with a solution of from half a drachm to a drachm of corrosive sublimate, along with a drachm of camphor, in one ounce and a half of spirit of wine. In the instance of erectile tumour, I have seen the late M. v. Grafs apply with good effect a paste, composed of two drachms of the sublimate, with two scruples of powdered gum arabic, and as much water. A similar paste made with two parts of gum arabic to one part of the bichloride, has sometimes pro- moted the healing of herpetic and carcinoma- tous ulceration attacking the eyelids. An elegant method of forming a small issue is to make a longitudinal cut in the skin with the edge of a lancet, and to rub into the linear incision some finely pulverized corrosive sub- limate. The modus operandi of this caustic is analo- gous to that of the chloride of zinc. According to Eisner, when albumen or fibrin is submitted to its action, a definite chemical combination of these with binoxide of mercury takes place'. M. Lassaigne, on the other hand, maintains that the albumen unites in definite proportions with the metallic salt2. The acidulated Nitrate of Mercury, prepared by dissolving one drachm of thepro- tonitratc in an ounce of nitric acid, is con- stantly employed by the French surgeons, under the name of the nitrate acide de mercure. Mons. Recamier was the first person who re- commended it in the treatment of cancer. Its application is apt to be attended with consi- derable pain, swelling, and inflammation of the ' Poggemlorff’s Annalcn. 1839. p. 609. 2 Comptcs Kcndus de l’lnstitut. 1840. surrounding parts, and even febrile reaction. It is generally brought in contact with the dis- eased surface by means of a tuft of charpie, but it is difficult to prevent its spreading beyond the prescribed limits. In the instance of ulcera- tion of the cavity of the neck of the uterus, Mons. Ricord cauterizes in the following way: he fills one of the cylinders of his double syringe with the acidulated nitrate, diluted with twelve parts of distilled water ; adapting to the canula of the syringe a gum-elastic tube, about eight inches in length, which passes into the cavity of the neck. The injec- tion is pushed gently along, in the quantity of a teaspoonful at a time, and after a minute or two have elapsed, the water contained in the other cylinder is injected without displacing the instrument. In the case of simple redness or phlyctaena, unaccompanied with inflamma- tion, a single cauterization will suffice ; but where ulceration is present it needs to be re- peated five or six timesThis caustic is oc- casionally used for herpetic and lupoid ulce- ration. Sulphate of Copper.—This salt, observes Canquoin2, reduced to powder and mixed with a little saliva, so as to form a paste, is a most virulent caustic, the lancinating pain from which would become insupportable were it applied over an extensive surface. When moderate in quantity the phenomena of re- action it occasions are trifling, but then its escharotic action is very superficial. It is frequently employed to destroy fungous granu- lations in ulcers ; as also to change the diseased condition of the surface in granular conjunctiva. When brought in contact with the tunica adnata it is liable to determine very severe irritation. Its use as an escharotic is confined to veterinary practice. Arsenious Acid is an energetic caustic, producing a livid, thick, coriaceous eschar, which commonly requires eighteen days for its separation. It excites vigorously the ac- tion of the vessels of the part, giving rise to inflammation and violent pain, which occa- sionally persists for five or six days. A re- markable phenomenon attending its employ- ment, is a more or less copious exudation of coagulable lymph after each application. In- dependently of its escharotic quality, it seems to determine a peculiar alterative effect in the subjacent textures. At one time the arsenical preparations were in great repute as external applications, but the serious consequences which often followed their employment in this mode have restricted their use. With proper precautions, how- ever, they may be resorted to in certain cases with great advantage. Arsenious acid appears to have been first used in 1524, by Fuschius, as a remedy for cancer ; he applied a powder in which it was ’ Loir. Dcs Ulcerations du Col de l’Uterus; These de Concours. Paris, 1835. p. 29. 2 Op. cit. p. 59.