799 COLLYRIUM. N.B. To any of the above solutions a draehm or two of vinum opii may be added. The following' may be mentioned as direc- tions for use:— To half a wine-glass full add as much hot water, not exceeding an equal quantity, as to make the whole lukewarm. With the quantity thus prepared the eyes are to be bathed as directed. (6.) Drops.—These may be applied by means of a quill or glass tube, but a large camel’s hair pencil will be found the most con- venient instrument. It is to be remembered, however, that to avoid accidents, each patient should have a separate pencil, which ought to be well washed every time it is used. The lower eyelid being slightly everted, its inner surface is to be touched with the loaded pen- cil, when the fluid will be immediately drawn off and diffused over the lower part of the con- junctiva. Pains must also be taken to allow the drop to make its way underneath the upper eyelid by drawing this from contact with the eyeball and then moving it slightly up and down. It is frequently necessary to evert the upper eyelid and pencil its conjunctival sur- face directly. Applied in the ordinary way, salves, eye- waters, and drops scarcely ever come in con- tact with the conjunctiva of the upper eyelid and eyeball1 in any degree of concentration, and too often what does get there acts rather as an irritant than otherwise. I consider it of great importance to insure the access of an application to the upper parts of the conjunc- tiva, because I have seen cases treated unsuc- cessfully, or rather irritated for a long time by applications, which, when properly in- troduced, did not fail of a speedy beneficial operation. In order to apply drops to the eye of a child with the least possible trouble, the sur- geon is to seat himself on a chair with a towel folded longways laid across his knees. On another chair on the surgeon’s left hand and a little in front of him, the nurse with the child sits in such a way that when she lays the child across her lap, its head may be received on the towel, and between the knees of the sur- geon, and thus held steadily. The nurse con- fining the arms and hands of the child, the surgeon easily draws down the lower eyelid and drops in the fluid ; he then draws the upper eyelid up a little and also from contact with the eyeball in order to allow the drop to get underneath. The eyelids are then alter- nately to be drawn from each other, and made to approach so as to favour the spreading of the fluid over the whole conjunctival surface. arcnsc. Liquefactis addc camphora; tritae partem j ; Misce. Massa refrigerata servetur sub nomine Lapidis Di- VINI. 1 In illustration of this it may be mentioned, that in most or all the cases in which, from the abuse of the nitrate of silver drops, the conjunctiva has become dis- coloured, it is the lower part of this membrane which is so affected. Examples. Vinum opii, alone or more or less diluted, is often used for dropping into the eye. —Nitratis argenti gr. iv—viij—xij. Aquae destillatae 1j. Solve. Ijt—Muriat. hydrarg. corros. gr. ft —j. Aquae destillatae 3vij. Solve et cola. Colaturae adde vini opii 3j. Misce. Ijb—Lapidis divini gr. v—x. Aquae distillatae 3vij. Solve et cola. Colaturae adde vini opii 3j- Misce. Ijc—Extract, belladonnas gr. x. Aquae destillatae 5ij. Solve et per linteum cola. Eye-salves, Unguenta ophtlialmica. Yr.pom- made ophthalmique ; Ger. Augensalbe. It is of great consequence that eye-salves should con- tain no gritty particles ; the powders enter- ing into their composition, therefore, should first be reduced by trituration to as impalpable a state as possible, and then carefully levigated with a little water or oil, previously to being mixed with the excipient. Substances soluble in a small quantity of fluid, such as the acetate of lead and sulphates of zinc and copper, may be dissolved. When camphor enters as an ingre- dient into an eye-salve it should first be dis- solved in a fixed oil. The excipient best adapted for eye-salves is prepared lard, simple cerate, or spermaceti ointment. Salves are applied to the edges of the eye- lids, or to the whole conjunctival surface. In the former case only should the patient or his attendants be intrusted with the application. In the latter case more discrimination as well as tact being required, the surgeon should always apply the salve himself. Before applying a salve to the edges of the eyelids all incrustations of matter about the roots of the eyelashes must be removed. This is done by first rubbing the part with fresh butter or lard, and after a while bathing it with tepid water; the incrusting matter is thus softened, and may readily be separated with the finger-nail or head of a pin. The anointing of the edges of the eyelids may be performed by means of a hair pencil, or simply with the point of the finger. The eyelid being held slightly everted, the salve is applied along its margin to the mouths of the meibomian follicles, then smeared outside the insertion of the eyelashes, and afterwards carefully rubbed in at their roots, the eyelids being at the time kept gently closed. When a salve is to be applied to the whole surface of the conjunctiva, a piece the size of a split pea is to be taken up on the point of a hair pencil, or on the point of the nail of the little finger, and insinuated under the upper eyelid, while this is drawn forward from contact with the eyeball. When the salve is fairly in the eye the upper eyelid is to be