CHONDRITIS. 77 3 it burns brightly like tinder without flame, and produces an eschar of sufficient extent which separates in a day or two. They may be applied in this way in conjunction with the starched bandages, by cutting out a small piece of the latter, and thus all the benefits of counter-irritation may be secured, with per- fect quietude of the limb. In Paris, agaric has been lately used to form moxae, and it answers the purpose very well. Severinus and Rust are the principal advocates for the actual cautery. The latter author is very minute in his directions as to the mode and extent of its application, but it appears unne- cessary to describe his practice, as all the benefits may be derived from the moxae I have described, without any of the ill effects which have been observed to follow the hot iron. Various plasters have been recommended, as the emplastrum hydrargyri cum ammoniaco, but they are altogether useless, and much valuable time is often frittered away in waiting for their expected effects. All species of stimulating or sedative liniments are highly injurious, from the friction employed in their application. Here then is one point showing the great importance of making a correct diagnosis. Setons are very useful in relieving severe attacks of pain. They effect this desirable object more speedily than issues, but their good effects are by no means so permanent. I remember a case where I passed a seton just behind the shoulder-joint, which had the effect of almost immediately relieving agoniz- ing pain, which had continued for several days, accompanied by extreme tenderness on pressure. When suppuration has taken place, the prog- nosis is much more unfavourable, especially in adults, and the question of treatment becomes one of increased importance. It is often a matter of difficulty to say whether a collection of pus in the soft parts does or does not com- municate with the joint, and so long as this is uncertain, it is better not to open it, unless it appear to be extending along the limb. Of course if it be superficial the sooner it is dis- charged the better. If we know that the pus is in communication with the cavity of the joint, the general opinion of surgeons is against its artificial evacuation. If left there, we have to consider the probability of its increase, dis- tension of the ligaments, consequent yielding of the bones to muscular influence and con- secutive luxation, besides the changes Schumer has shown so frequently to result from the transudation of pus to the articular tissues. If opened, we have the chance of speedy death, (which, to my knowledge, has happened in more than one instance,) the increase of local action, and a secretion of pus so great, that if the opening close, the abscess is as full in two or three days as it was before : if it remain open there is a profuse and exhausting fetid discharge. Therefore, as these dangerous con- sequences do not follow when the abscess opens spontaneously, and as the pus is some- times, though very rarely, absorbed, it is better not to interfere as a general rule. The abscess must not be squeezed after either artificial or natural opening, but a degree of gentle and uniform pressure kept up by bandaging. Rust recommends that before opening an articular abscess, the integuments over it should be inflamed by the cautery, and after a few days the eschar is to be divided, and the matter evacuated. He does this with the view of exciting a condition of the skin similar to that which exists in a simple abscess, a con- dition in which the walls of the abscess have a tendency to contract and adhere. When the abscess is large he passes a red-hot trocar through it, and introduces a seton through the openings, leaving it there for twenty-four or thirty-six hours. Petit and Larrey make the opening with a small heated knife, and apply cupping-glasses to remove the matter. Others have made the puncture under water, but it does not appear that the danger in these cases arises from the access of air; or if so, that any such methods can obviate this occur- rence. When the general powers of the patient are evidently suffering from the effects of the local disease, and no reasonable hope can be longer entertained of effecting a cure, even by ankylosis, the only remedy is the removal of the diseased joint. Until the operations of Moreau, Jeffray, and Park, had been performed, amputation was consi- dered to be the only means of effecting this object. But these cases, and many others which have been recently recorded by Syme, Key, &c. have proved that a very useful limb may be preserved by removing the articula- tion. It may be questioned w'hether the remnants of limbs remaining after excision of the ankle or knee-joints are at all equal to the firm and steady support afforded by an artifi- cial leg. But with regard to the removal of the elbow and shoulder joints, not only are the motions and uses of the hand perfectly preserved after the operation, but so much motion is allowed between the divided extre- mities of the bones, that the ordinary motions of the joint remain to a surprising degree. This, therefore, appears to be a great improve- ment in modern surgery, and one which should be carefully considered before proceed- ing to amputation. See Resection. Before amputation be decided on, the lungs should be carefully examined, for I have now seen three instances in which very extensive pulmonary disease existed in cases of diseased joints in scrofulous patients (and which, it was thought, had commenced in ulceration of car- tilage,) the general symptoms of pulmonary disease being singularly latent. There was in fact nothing to induce a supposition of chest affection, while very extensive disease w'as evident on auscultation. Amputation in such cases would be useless torture, and the sur- geon would have the credit of hastening his patient’s death. I believe many of the cases