32 EAR, AND HEARING, DISEASES OF. mutation of mucus. No obstruction of the Eustachian tubes. Auditory passages natural. January 27th.—G. H. a young man, aged 19, has been more or less deaf since the age of six, when he had scarlet fever. Is subject to attacks of ear-ache. Skin coarse, with the sebaceous follicles of the face much deve- loped ; habitually costive. The climate in which he usually resides is very moist. About two years ago, was treated in Paris by M. Deleau, who applied the air-douche about fourteen times, but with temporary be- nefit only. Took iodine last summer. During: the last autumn hearing improved of itself considerably, but has been diminishing since he came to London. It is now— Left ear, three inches. Right ear, five inches. Left membrana tympani and handle of the malleus appear natural : the right also. The skin of the auditory passages slightly red and tender. The secretion of wax natural. Applied the air-douche to both ears, as an exploratory means. On the left side the air entered freely, but with great gurgling. On the right side not so freely and with less gurgling. After the air-douche, the hearing distance of the left ear was nine inches ; of the right ear seven inches. The hearing was further raised on both sides to one foot, by making forced expirations with the nose and mouth closed. Tuesday, January 29th.—Hearing distance to-day, on the left side, eight inches ; on the right side, one foot. After the application of the air-douche, the hearing distance, on the left side was raised to one foot four inches, on the right side to one foot and a quarter. To continue the treatment with the air- douche, and endeavour to improve the state of the constitution by attention to diet and regimen. To resume the use of the iodine. Wednesday, 30th.—Left ear one foot one inch ; right ear, one foot and three quarters. Some pain in the right ear last night, and still some tenderness. Applied the air-douche to the left ear only. The air entered freely. After the air-douche, the hearing distance of the left ear was one foot and three quar- ters. That of the right ear, although not treated, was found increased also, from one foot and three quarters to two feet four inches and a half. After some minutes and after having forced air into the tympanum by attempting to ex- pire with the nose and mouth closed, the hearing distance on the left side was raised to three feet, and on the right side to three feet and a quarter. Thursday, 81st.—Left ear from two feet to two feet and a half; right ear, three feet. After forcing air into the middle ear by at- tempting to expire forcibly with the nose and mouth closed, the hearing distance of the left ear rose to three feet and a half, and that of the right ear fell to two feet and a half. Applied the ear-douche to the right side only. The hearing distance was diminished immediately after, but in the course of a few minutes it was found risen again to three feet. Tuesday, 5th.—Right ear two feet and a half at first trial, but after forcing air into the Eustachian tube by attempting to expire with the nose and mouth closed, the hearing dis- tance was found raised to four feet. Left ear, one foot ten inches at first trial; three feet one inch and a half after the forced expiration. Some cold in the head and ten- derness about the external auditory passages. No air-douche to-day. To apply leeches behind the ears. Tuesday, 12th.—Leeches have not been applied. Left ear, one foot four inches; right ear, two feet. After a forced expiration, left ear, two feet five inches ; right ear three feet three inches. Friday, 15th.—Ear-ache has shifted from the right to the left side. Has had some leeches applied behind the left ear. To repeat the leeches. Monday, 18th.—Has had ten leeches ap- plied behind the left ear. Still some pain and tenderness of the left ear. Tuesday, 19th.—No pain, but still some tenderness. Fomented the ear last night with warm water. To rub in tartar emetic oint- ment behind and below the left ear. Thursday, 21st.—Left ear, one foot; right ear, one foot and three quarters. Still some tenderness of the left ear. Pain is excited when air is forced into the tympana by attempting to expire with the nose and mouth closed. Tuesday, 26th.—Right ear, two feet three inches ; left ear, 2 feet one inch. No recurrence of ear-ache. Wednesday, 27th.— Again some pain in the left ear. Hearing not so good to-day. Nasal catarrh continues. Friday, 1st March.— Hearing very dull to- day. No ear-ache. Air-douche applied to both sides. The air entered freely, but pro- duced great gurgling. No pain during the application of the air-douche, but the Schnei- derian membrane is so tumid, that a very small catheter only can be passed along the nostrils without causing pain. The cold is now going off, the mucus is therefore increased in quantity and becoming thicker, hence the greater degree of deaf- ness. After the air-douche the hearing distance on the right side was one foot eleven inches ; on the left side, one foot six inches. Saturday, 2nd.—Right ear, one foot eleven inches ; left ear, one foot nine inches and a half. Right ear treated. The hearing duller immediately after the application of the air- douche. Monday. 4th.—Right ear, one foot nine inches ; left ear, one foot two inches and a half. Left ear treated. Some obstruction to the