AMPUTATION. 164 FORE-ARM. Amputation of the fore-arm in its continuity. Notwithstanding that the contrary opinion has been avowed by respectable authority, the general rule of removing as little as pos- sible' in amputations of the thoracic limb, is as applicable to the fore-arm as to any other part of the superior extremity. It is quite true, that the muscles, which are thick and full at its upper part, become gradually thin- ner, and more tendinous, towards its inferior third; but this change does not prevent the formation of a good stump, and there may be always a sufficiency of skin, the staple, generally speaking, of a good cicatrix, to cover the bones, tendons, &c. In this amputation, the circular, flap, and oval methods, are all equally applicable. Circular method.—For this operation a slen- der bladed catling, and a three-tailed retrac- tor will be required. There should be also two or three assistants ; one to command the circulation, by compressing the brachial artery with his lingers against the inside of the hu to be sawed com- pletely through before the ulna; as the lat- ter, from being more largely articulated with the humerus, will serve to support it. Mal- gaigne recommends the middle position, between pronation and supination, for sawing the bones, in order that they may be di- vided on the same level with the muscles; for if the bone was sawn in pronation, the radius would project beyond the ulna in supination, and vice versa. Fi<r. 22. Circular amputation of the fore-arm (a, no. 1, fig. 20); the radius and ulna are seen, the c above the other, the fore-arm being semi-prone. merus, or with a garrot and pad ; another to support the diseased hand enveloped in a piece of linen ; and a third, if he should be required, to hold the fore-arm, and be ready, as soon as the circular incision is made, to re- tract the skin. The fore-arm is presented in pronation, the surgeon takes hold of it above the place where he is about to cut, if it be the left arm—below, if it should be the right, and makes an incision all round, which will lay bare the fascia ; the assistant retracts the skin to the extent of about an inch, or an inch and a half, the surgeon assisting him, by ra- pidly dividing the small fibrous bridles, wher- ever they impede the retraction. Another circular incision divides the muscles to the bone ; these retract, and the knife is used to divide the interosseous muscular fibres, both on the front and back of the bones, together with the ligament extended between them. If the patient be very young, the knife used for this purpose must be slender. The re- tractor is then applied, the middle tail be- tween the radius and ulna, and the muscles are thus drawn back and protected. We must not trust too much to the retraction of the muscles for forming a good stump ; it should be borne in mind, that the muscles here are, for the most part, closely adherent to the bones. It is, therefore, highly impor- tant to preserve sufficient skin and muscle, without any reference to what may be gained by retraction. When a difficulty is found in dividing the muscles and tendons in the inter- osseous spaces, Cloquet directs the knife to be passed on the flat between them and the bones, and then turning the edge, to divide them transversely from within outwards. The periosteum being carefully cut along the track in which the bones are to be sawed, the sur- geon commences sawing the bones, first on the radius, and then on the ulna, so as to saw both together. The radius ought The retractor is then taken off, and the two arteries sought for : the interosseous will seldom require a ligature. In tying the vessels, they should be carefully isolated from their accompanying nerves. The line of re- union must be the same as that of the bones. Flap method.—Grade performs this opera- tion by forming a single flap from the ante- rior surface ot the fore-arm. His mode of proceeding is as follows :—a thin knife is passed from side to side in the front of the bones, and a semi-elliptic flap is formed ; the skin and muscles of the posterior surface are divided down to the bone by a semicircular transverse incision (c, b, a, no. 1, fig. 20). The soft parts are then retracted, and the bones are sawed in the usual way. The plan with two flaps is preferred to it, and is performed, according to Verm ale’s me- thod, at any part of the fore-arm. The fore- Fig. 23, arm being in the middle state between pro- nation and su- pination, the anterior flap is formed first. The strongest objection to this plan arises from the liability of the two ends of the bones to protrude at the corner of the wound; an ob- jection from which the cir- cular method is free. It may, however, be ob- served, that Fig. 23. Double flap amputation of the fore-arm.