15 ABORTION. carrying heavy weights, frequenting crowded and heated assemblies, ball rooms, theatres, churches, &o., falls, slips, blows or wounds on the abdomen, violent coughing or laughter, the use of emetics or drastic purgatives, fre- quent sexual indulgence, surgical operations, even though slight, the extraction of a tooth, irritation or pain in the genital organs, or in any part of the body. Women in the lower class of life who are exposed to much bodily fatigue and mental emotions, are also very liable to this disease. The disposition to abortion is so strong in some women, that the slightest cause, either moral or physical, will induce it ; while, in others, the strongest moral or physical influ- ences will not excite it. Diseases of the Ovum.—The predisposing causes of abortion which depend on the foetus, are vices of conformation, or diseases of itself, or its appendages. When these cause the death of the foetus, it becomes a foreign body in the uterus, which sooner or later expels it. It is easy to explain this result. The uterus from the moment of conception has an afflux, or determination of blood towards it, which continues during the whole period of preg- nancy ; but when the foetus dies, the con- gested state of the uterus is no longer relieved by the passage of the blood to the infant for its nourishment; the latter is now a foreign body ; and the former, in consequence of too large a quantity of blood in its substance, be- comes irritated, its fibres are thrown into con- traction, parturient action succeeds, and the uterus expels the dead foetus and its appen- dages. In all cases in which the embryo or foetus '13 diseased or dead, abortion, or premature labour, as the case may be, must in general ensue ; the instance in which gestation is con- tinued to the full term, being the exception. From these observations, it may be con- cluded, that abortion may be produced by any cause that enfeebles the mother or foetus ; the anormal conformation and diseases of the latter, the feeble or partial adhesion of the placenta to the surface of the uterus, its im- plantation over the neck of this organ, its scirrhous, hydatic, aneurismal, and varicose degenerescence, its smallness in proportion to the size of the foetus ; the shortness or exces- sive length of the umbilical cord, its twirlings round the neck, body, or extremities of the foetus, its augmentation of volume by sacs, hy- datids, tumours, knots, or adherences in it which oppose or prevent the circulation of the blood through it; the tenuity of the mem- branes of the ovum, a collection of fluid be- tween the chorion and the amnios ; too small or too great a quantity of the amniotic fluid, and numerous other diseases of the ovum : these last, according to Dr. Lee, are the most frequent causes of abortion. In most abor- tions, from the third to the sixth month of pregnancy, the ovum is not diseased, but is expelled through the influence of some of the accidental causes already enumerated. When the ovum is normal, it adheres to, or is strongly connected with the uterus ; but when it is ab- normal, the slightest shock or mental emotion may cause its expulsion. It is important to examine all ova, as they often appear health- ful at first, but, on closer inspection, are often found diseased before the thitd month. Thus on careful investigation the membranes or embryo will frequently be discovered to be anormal. Occasional causes.—The occasional causes of abortion are various. In fact there is not a circumstance in life which may not be fol- lowed by abortion. Amongst the causes al- ready mentioned, and which we shall not here repeat, many are also occasional; but, strictly speaking, they include mental emotions, as joy, fear, anger, jealousy, &c.; diarrhoea, dy- sentery, colic, tenesmus, hemorrhoids, constipa- tion, intestinal worms, strangury ; the impres- sion of odours, as the odour of a recently extinguished candle, &c. ; asphyxia, violent hysteria; coition, especially if too often re- peated ; riding, dancing; falls or blows on any part of the body, but especially on the loins or abdomen ; violent laughing, coughing, crying, vomiting, hiccup, sea-sickness, strain- ing in evacuating the bowels or bladder ; the use of strong purgatives, emetics, emmena- gogues, abortives, hot-baths, pediluvia, copious depletion, especially from the feet, the con- vulsive motions of the foetus, rupture of the umbilical cord or membranes, and adhesion of the fundus uteri to vicinal organs. It is generally thought that most of these causes act by separating the placenta, but this result does not immediately occur unless this organ is of a sufficient size to acquire, by the effect of a fall, blow, or concussion, as great a motion as that which is made on the uterus. The immediate separation of the placenta is recog- nised by the uterine haemorrhage which in- stantly or speedily follows. It is difficult to explain placental separation effected by the causes just assigned, when we remember that the ovum exactly fills the ute- rus, and that the ovum is exactly filled by the fluid of the amnios. We can clearly perceive, however, that the motions impressed on the woman are almost incapable of separating the placenta from the womb, or the chorion from the amnios, which are placed like two bladders, one within the other, and the inner one filled with fluid. It has also been long remarked, that the most active, laborious, and imprudent women, those who take unrestricted exercise, generally arrive at the full term of uterine gestation ; whilst a vast number, in a state of affluence and ease, abort, in spite of the greatest care and attention. It is to be re- collected, that women in the lower ranks of life, who make great exertion, and who are frequently exposed to falls and blows, very seldom miscarry. Many too have received the most severe injuries without having aborted. Mauriceau mentions the case of a woman who was seven months pregnant, whose fore arm was fractured, yet she went to the full period. Madame Lachapelle relates the case of a young midwife who was pregnant,