458 BANDAGE. mity of a single-headed roller, six or seven yards in length, and from two inches and a half to three inches in breadth, is placed upon the inner ankle, and the foot encircled by one or two turns from within outwards ; the roller is next made to describe a figure of eight round the ankle and instep, and is continued spirally up the leg, each turn overlapping the upper third, or more, of that below it; when it reaches the swell of the limb, a certain ma- noeuvre is necessary to make it lie evenly ; as it mounts upward, the spiral direction of every turn ought to be increased somewhat, and the roller gently reversed, its internal surface be- coming external, and superior border inferior. This reverse is repeated until the bandage has enclosed the bulky part of the calf, when its circular course is resumed; the reverses must be made in the opposite direction, from below upwards, as the size again diminishes towards the knee. The chief difficulty in this bandage is the application of the roller smoothly to the ankle and calf, to produce equable pressure on the whole of the limb ; a narrow roller can be adjusted more closely to the ankle than a broad one. The many-tailed bandage.—Several pur- poses for which the last bandage is applied may be more conveniently effected, under particular circumstances, by the many-tailed bandage. Fig. 131. shows its composition according to Pott; Fig. 132 its applica- tion to the leg. Upon a longitudinal band of linen or calico, of the same length as the part for which it is destined, a number of cross- bands, long enough to take one turn and a half round the limb, are stitched a little obliquely, this arrangement causing them to fold over each other more smoothly. Every cross-band should overlap the lower half, or more, of the Fig. 132. one above it. The bandage being placed un- der the limb, the foot is first encircled by the cross bands, which ascend gradually, the ends of each band embracing and securing that below it. It is chiefly employed as a support- ing bandage in fractures of the leg and thigh, as it can be unfolded and reapplied with- out disturbing the limb. Also with com- presses, as an expellent bandage, to prevent pus collecting in a sinus, and sometimes as a uniting bandage. In compound fractures, Scultetus’s is a more convenient form of this bandage ; it differs from it merely in the circumstance that the cross-bands are not sewed to the longitudinal band ; any one of them can therefore, be with- drawal if soiled, and replaced, without disturb- ing the limb, by stitching a fresh band to the end of the former, and drawing it under as that is removed; the cross-bands may be spread with soap cerate, if more support is thought advisable. 2. Bandages for particular purposes. —Confining Bandages.—As a general rule they ought to be simple in their composition, and applied as lightly as is consistent with security, undue pressure having been frequently pro- ductive of serious consequences after great operations. Their forms are various in order that they may be adapted to the several re- gions of the body. The Head and Face.—For the head, two simple confining bandages may be made with the handkerchief in the following manner. In the first (capitium magnum, Lat.; grand couvre-chef, Fr.), the handkerchief is thrown