ASPHYXIA. 432 lowing manner. Having closed the mouth of the body and one of the nostrils, the operator should blow into the other, having previously by strong suction removed as far as possible the deteriorated air. This method of insuffla- tion when practised, should be performed through the nostril, the natural appendage to the respiratory tube, in preference to the mouth. We have hitherto supposed a case where no apparatus was at hand for the performance of these two operations ; it is now necessary for us to describe the several instruments which have been recommended, and the use of which have been sanctioned by experience. The bandage of Leroy has been particularly described by the Humane Society, and is ad- mirably calculated to produce the alternate contraction and dilatation of the thorax (figs. 111 and 112). Fig. 111. Fig. 112. This bandage may be form- ed in the following manner. A piece of strong flannel, a blanket, sheet, or any other kind of cloth most easily to be obtained at the moment should be selected. It should be six feet in length, and eighteen inches in breadth; six strips should be cut or torn lengthwise on each side, and each strip should be three inches broad and two feet long. The untorn portion of this bandage should be placed under the back of the body, extending from the arm-pits to the upper part of the thigh bones, and the strips brought together over the chest and belly, interlacing each other from the opposite sides, as the fingers are interlaced in grasping the hands: the strips thus arranged should be gathered into a bundle on each side, and upon being drawn, by two assistants in opposite directions, the edges of the bandage will be made to approach each other, and firm and equal pressure will thus be produced on the thorax and abdomen. When the assistants have made the neces- sary degree of pressure, upon their relaxing the bandage the thorax will expand ; and if at the same moment the head and shoulders of the body be elevated, the diaphragm will fol- low the abdominal viscera in their descent. By these proceedings the capacity of the tho- rax will be increased in all directions, and the atmospheric air be invited into the passive lungs which follow its movements. The use of this bandage, and the inflation of the lungs in the manner directed, may be safely en- trusted to the hands of non-professional per- sons, but the application of other instruments which have been devised for the performance of artificial respiration, or even the use of the ordinary pair of bellows for this purpose, should be entrusted to the surgeon solely. For the purpose of introducing a curved canula into the glottis, with a view of inject- ing air into the trachea and its ramifications, Leroy has invented an instrument, which, by depressing the tongue and elevating the epiglottis, greatly facilitates this operation. Fig. 113. Fig. 114. Figs. 113 and 114 represent Leroy’s instru- ment" ; it is composed of two parts articulated at a, figure 113. The branch b b is fixed, the branch c d is moveable. When the extremity c is elevated towards b, the extremity d is de- pressed, and it is made to act on the base of the tongue so as to elevate the epiglottis. Fig. 114 represents the canula 11 in its place in the instrument. It is attached to the fixed branch by a ring f, and at the other end it fol- lows the motions of the other branch, to which it is attached by another ring g. The motion of this branch, at the same time that it de- presses the base of the tongue and elevates the epiglottis, directs the canula to the open- ing of the larynx, and if it then be pushed forward it enters the glottis. When the canula is thus introduced, the bellows provided with a graduated arc, indi- cating the quantity of air proper to be intro- duced at different ages, should be attached to the tube, and before commencing inflation, an effort should be made to remove by suction at the canula, any fluid that may be in the wind- pipe, such as water, mucus, or the deteriorated