BUBO. 525 The frequent ossification of the thyroid cartilage, the danger of wounding the chordae vocales, and the danger of increasing or producing laryngitis, are sufficient to con- demn the section of this cartilage, though Velpeau speaks in its favour. Laryngotomy offers some advantages in urgent cases from its greater simplicity, and the smaller chance of meeting with any wan- dering vessel. Also in cases of foreign bodies lodged in the larynx, for the same reasons, as also its greater proximity to the body. This latter argument will of course be against it in cases of inflammation about the upper part of the tube. It is scarcely necessary to describe the operation. The integuments are to be divided in the median line, over the cricoid and lower half of the thyroid cartilages, the sterno-hyoid, sterno-thyroid, and crico-thy- roid muscles separated, and a crucial incision made in the crico-thyroid membrane, or it may be punctured with a trocar. The same objections to the canula will apply with still greater force to this operation than to tra- cheotomy. Notwithstanding the greater depth of the trachea in children, its smaller size, the greater risk of haemorrhage, and their trouble- some struggles, tracheotomy appears to be preferable to laryngotomy before the age of puberty ; for there is then a greater relative space between the lower border of the thyroid gland, and the top of the sternum, than in adults. This is owing to the greater relative height of the cricoid cartilage, which regu- lates the position of the thyroid gland. In the adult the larynx is evolved, the cricoid cartilage depressed, and the gland with it, so that the distance between the gland and the top of the sternum is diminished, that above the cricoid cartilage is increased. Thus from the conformation of the parts, cseteris paribus, laryngotomy is more suited for the adult, tracheotomy for the young subject. The neck of the adult female also approaches that of the young subject, the larynx being smaller, and higher in the neck than in the male. No more cases have been here introduced than I thought absolutely necessary to illus- trate the various sections of this article. I have, however, made a collection of most of those on record, and the positions 1 have taken, are to be regarded as the result of in- ferences deduced from such cases, the treat- ment adopted, and its results. Had I nar- rated many of them, it would have extended the article to an unwarrantable length, and probably proved tiresome to most readers. I am deeply indebted to many of the authors I have cited, and I feel it a duty especially to mention Mr. Porter’s work on the surgical pathology of the larynx and trachea, and the invaluable treatise of Dr. Stokes on the dis- eases of the chest. Bihi.iograpiiy.—Many of the older authors in which Bionchotomy is alluded to are mentioned, and their works cited in the historical sketch. Micluielis, I)e Angina Polyposa sive Membranacea. Gott. 1778. Desault, (Euvres Chirurgicales. Paris, 1801. Flajani, Obscrvazioni di Chirnrgia. Rome, 1802. Portal, De l’Angine Membraneuse. Paris, 1808. Cheyne, Pa- thology of the Membrane of the Larynx and Bron- chia. Edinb. 1810. Diet, des Sciences Med. art. Bronchotomie. Paris, 1812. Goelis, Tractatus do rite cognoscenda et sananda Angina Membra- nacea. Vienna, 1813. Albers, Comment, de Tra- cheitide Infantum. Lips. 1816. C. Bell, Surgical Observations. Lond. 1816. Eberliurd, De Musculis Bronchialibus in statu et morbosa actione. Marpurg. 1817. DesrueU.es, Traite Theorique et Pratique du Croup. Paris, 1824. Bretonneau, Des Inflamma- tions Specialcs du Tissu Muqueux, et en particulier de la Diphthente. Paris, 1826. Louis, Memories ou Recherches Anatomiques Pathologiques. Paris, 1826. Porter, The Surgical Pathology of the La- rynx and Trachea. Dublin, 1826. Diet, de Med. et de Chir. Prat. art. Bronchotomie. Paris, 1830. Cheyne, Cyc. of Pract. Med. art. Croup. Lond. 1832. Dupuytren, Clinique Chirurg. Paris, 1833. Cheyne, Cyc. of Pract. Med. art. Laryngitis. Lond. 1833. Copeland, Diet, of Pract. Med. art. Croup. Lond. 1833. Liston, Practical Surgery. Lond. 1837. Hy- land, Injuries and Diseases of Larynx ; Jacksonian Prize. Lond. 1837. Stokes, Diseases of the Chest. Dublin, 1837. Trousseau et Belloc, Traite Pratique de la Phthisie Laryngee. Paris, 1837. Malgaigne, Manuel de Medecine Operatoire. Paris, 1839. See also Chevalier, Percival, Andree, Lawrence, Porter, Hunt, Hall, and Wood, in Medico-Chirurgical Trans- actions. Burgess, Porter, and White in Dublin Hos- pital Reports. Carmichael, Murray, Evanson, and Houston, in Dublin Journal of Medical Science. (Thomas Spencer Wells.) BUBO, (Der. fiovfidiv ; Bubon, Fr.; Leis- tenbeule, Ger. the groin). A term gene- rally applied to an enlargement of one or more of the lymphatic glands in the inguinal region. Sometimes it has been used in a wider sense, and has been extended to en- largements of lymphatic glands elsewhere. I propose to restrict it, in the present instance, to its popular and limited signification. Buboes have been commonly divided into specific and sympathetic. The specific bubo has been admitted to occur in plague and syphilis, and sometimes, perhaps, in gonorrhoea. It may occur, too, as a consequence of malignant disease in the scrotum, or the penis. I have lately seen an instance of malignant ulceration in each groin, commencing in the inguinal glands, and fol- lowing similar malignant disease of the pre- puce. The sympathetic bubo has been looked upon as the ordinary form in gonor- rhoea, an occasional one in syphilis, and a casual result of such general disturbance, or local irritation, as might act on the lymphatics which pass to the inguinal glands, or directly on those glands themselves. It does not fall within the scope of the pre- sent article, to embrace the consideration of specific bubo, whether it originates in plague, in syphilis, in malignant diseases, or in gonor- rhoea. The examination of that form, if such there be, will naturally occur in connection with those particular diseases. And I must defer, for a similar reason, to the same oppor- tunity, the investigation of those characters, if any such exist, which distinguish the specific bubo from the sympathetic.