2V0 ANKLE. The articulation of the ankle is formed by three bones, the tibia, fibula, and astragalus ; but as Weitbrccht very justly observes, “ ni- hilominus tamen ligamenta, quae pedem in junctura hac coercent, non soli talo (seu astra- galo) innascuntur, sed et aliis ossibus, nimi- rum calcaneo et osse naviculari, quae ossa vicis- siin per alia ligamenta sub loco commemo- randa cum ipso astragalo firmiter combinan- tur.”—(p. 159, loco cit.) The tibia and fibula form together a cavity which receives the pulley-like surface of the astragalus, and thus presents one of the purest hinge-joints of the human body. This articulation, like that of the occipital bone and atlas, is united at nearly right angles, a fact which destroys that ana- logy which is generally established between the wrist and ankle. The ankle is beautifully con- structed for its purposes, great solidity and motion. With regard to the movements which take place in this joint, much difference of opinion exists. Some anatomists maintain that three motions can be performed in the tibio-tarsal articulation ; viz. flexion, exten- sion, and lateral motion; others deny the possibility of the last ; and some allow lateral motion, only under peculiar positions of the limb. Thus Wilson, who was a very good anatomist, asserts that the joint of the ankle permits no rotatory motion when the foot is either bent or at right angles to the leg; but when the leg is raised and the foot is extended, a narrow portion of the astragalus is brought into the hollow formed by the bones of the leg, so that the toe can be pointed to either side.” (Wilson loco cit. p. 156.) This is also the opinion of Mr. B. Cooper, and of many other good anatomists : it is, neverthe- less, incorrect. I have endeavoured re- peatedly to produce this lateral motion on the fresh subject as well as on the living body, but have never yet succeeded ; in what- ever position the limb be placed (when healthy) the two malleoles always prevent this lateral motion, by pressing against the sides of the astragalus. Winslow, a most accurate anatomist, now too little read, has given by far the most perfect description of the different motions of the foot; and he de- cidedly affirms that flexion and extension are the only movements permitted in this joint. By admitting this lateral motion, authors have been induced to attribute more or less mo- bility to the peroneo-tibial articulation, which is described as being covered with cartilage throughout its extent: this is also an erroneous notion—a very small part of this articulation is provided with cartilage ; a synovial mem- brane and cellular tissue separate these two bones ; all that appears necessary here, is to prevent sudden concussion of the bones; and, therefore, a sort of elasticity is procured by the cellular tissue which is interposed between them. It is impossible to examine the various erroneous views regarding the motions of the toot and ankle in the present paper; we must, therefore, confine ourselves to the following brief observations, which will be corroborated by various pathological facts :—Flexion and extension are the only visible movements of the tibio-astragalian joint. Rotation, or ab- duction and adduction of the foot, are pro- duced principally within the articulation of the astragalus and os calcis, and a certain degree of similar motion occurs between these two bones and the scaphoid and cuboid bones. The anatomical inspection of these joints, and the direction of many of their ligaments, suf- fice to set this subject at rest; the contrary opinion can only be maintained by those who are in the vicious habit of studying the bones in their dried state. The upper part of the calcis is admirably adapted for its two-fold office, of bearing the weight of the body and of allowing considerable lateral motion of the foot upon the leg; thus its upper surface is divided into three or four articular portions, each separated by a layer of adipose tissue, meant, no doubt, to serve as an elastic cushion for the astragalus, and also to diminish the danger of fracture of this bone, which would probably occur if it were not thus divided, so as to disperse the force of sudden concussions upon its surface. Fig. 101. Fig. 101 is a section of the foot, passing through the tibia, astragalus, os calcis, the scaphoid, internal cu- neiform, first metatarsal, and phalanges of the great toe, and showing the interior of the several articula- tions ; a, the os calcis; b, the astragalus; d, the tibia; e, the scaphoid; f the cuneiform ; g, the metatarsal bone; h and i, the phalanges ; k, the muscles of the sole of the foot. If we take a glance at the numerous dis- orders of this joint, we find none more com- mon than sprains, and yet we possess very little positive knowledge respecting their pre- cise seat and nature ; hence we may expect a great diversity of opinion. Some authors maintain, that in all violent sprains the liga- ments of the tibio-astragalian joint are torn from their bony insertions; others assert, that the ligaments give way in their middle. Dupuytren, who had several opportunities of dissecting subjects which presented these accidents, tells us that when sprains are not carried to any extent, the ligaments arc merely stretched ; on the contrary, when sprains are violent, the lateral ligaments are torn from one or both the malleoles. Wilson, on the other hand, speaking also from his dissections, informs ns, that he found “ the capsular liga- ment. of the ankle-joint, and one of the lateral ligaments binding the tibia to the foot, lace- rated.” In another case, Wilson found the