781 CLUB-FOOT. The operation is performed thus:—The sur- geon takes hold of the prepuce with a pair of forceps, as much of the part being left out, as he thinks necessary to be removed. With a single sweep of the knife, which, directed by the blades of the forceps, prevents any irregularity or unevenness of the incision, he will be enabled to remove the prepuce. Or it may be performed, as directed by M. Ricord, the prepuce being seized between two pairs of forceps, between which the incision is made. In the Jew'ish mode of circumcision, the child is laid on a man’s lap in a convenient posture. The operator takes the prepuce between the forefinger and thumb of the left- hand, and, drawing it forward, encloses it be- tween the blades of a forceps-shaped spatula, then, raising the penis to a vertical position, he cuts off the prepuce, at one stroke, close to the blades of the forceps by means of a probe- pointed knife. He now, with the utmost rapidity, applies his thumb nail, which is cut in a peculiar form for the purpose, to the inner fold of the prepuce, and lacerates it almost entirely down to the corona glandis. He then repeatedly washes the wound with water, projected upon it from his mouth, and sucks the blood from it several times. By way of dressing, a strip of soft linen is wound round the corona glandis ; and the wounded parts are protected from all contact by a ring laid on the child’s lap. CIRSOPHTHALMIA, Kipaog, varix; 00- GaXpog, oculus—varicositas oculi. The state of the eye to which this name is given is the consequence of choroiditis. It is synonymous with staphyloma of the sclerotica and choroid, and staphyloma of the ciliary body. See Staphyloma. CLAVUS, the head of a nail, a name formerly given to prolapsus of the iris through an opening in the cornea, when the protrud- ing portion of the iris was flat, and but little elevated above the surface of the cornea. CLUB-FOOT. Yarns, valgus, pcs equi- nus, talipes or talus, Lat.; pied hot, 1 r. ; Klumpfuss, Germ. The designation under which all deformities of the foot have been indiscriminately included. The word talipes having been adopted, by several late writers on the subject, as the generic term for the de- formity in question, it will be employed syno- nymously with club-foot in the following pages, restricting the application of both terms to the general distortion as hereafter defined. Four species or varieties of this deformity have been described, and designated as fol- lows : talipes varus, distortion of the foot inwards ; t. valgus, eversion of the foot ; t. equinus, forced extension ; and t. calcaneus or talus, extreme flexion of the foot upon the leg. The investigation and establishment, by Dr. Stromeyerof Hanover, of the correct aetiology of club-foot, his successful revival of the opera- tion of Thilenius for its cure, and the practical bearing of the same principles on other defects and distortions of the frame (see Spinal dis- tortion, Strabismus, and Wry-neek), have given this subject a greater importance in the eyes of the profession, than almost any recent im- provement in surgery, and have excited very general surprise that the treatment of these deformities should have been so long abandoned to the mere mechanic1. A review of the opi- nions entertained by successive writers upon this branch of surgery, will show' that scarcely any addition to our knowledge of the nature and treatment of these affections wras made from the time of Hippocrates to the latter part of the last century (1784), w hen Lorenz, a surgeon at Frankfort, divided the tendo achillis for the cure of a case of club-foot, under the direction of Thilenius2. The com- monly received impression was, that they were the result of original monstrosity; and the cure was attempted according to the principle recommended and practised by Hip- pocrates, the gradual restoration of the natural form of the foot by mechanical pressure ; each succeeding writer contenting himself with the suggestion of some new method of applying the principle, some new bandage or instrument. On the other hand, few surgical improve- ments illustrate more forcibly the dependence of practical surgery on anatomical research andjust physiological principles. Stromeyer’s immediate predecessors, particularly Scarpa and Delpech, had thrown much light upon the nature of these affections ; but sufficient ob- scurity still remained to check the repetition by others of Delpech’s not very successful experiments3. An investigation into the in- 1 When we consider the numbers daily presented to our notice suffering under this infliction, the singular circumstance that two of the greatest poets and the first diplomatist of the day, Byron, Scott, and Talley- rand, were thus afflicted, and contrast the severity of the misfortune with the facility of cure by the pro- ceeding of Stromeyer : it does appear extraordinary, that more correct views of the nature of club-foot, which could alone lead to a more successful method of treatment, should not have been worked out earlier. Lord Byron’s sensitiveness with regard to his defor- mity is well known. Many of his peculiarities as a writer have been traced to this source of misery. To escape from it he would have made almost any sacrifice. Sir Walter Scott bore the privation with a better grace. His exultation in his superiority to the companions of his boyhood, in feats of daring and activity, is familiar to the readers of his Life by Lockhart. With what satis- faction, too, he records the prowess of his club-footed ancestor, William the Bolt-foot. Timour Beg, (surnamed Timour Lenc, or the lame,) the conqueror of Western Asia, is an illustrious instance of great achievements accomplished by a cripple. He was lame not only of afoot, but of a hand. Such ex- amples almost make good Lord Bacon’s position : “ Whosoever hath any thing fixed in his person that doth induce contempt, hath also a perpetual spur in himself to rescue and deliver himself from scorn; so that upon the matter, in a great wit, deformity is an advantage to rising.”—Essay lv. 2 Medicinische und chirurgische Bemerkungen von Moritz Gerhard Thilenius.—Frankfort, 1789. 3 As recently as 1830, amputation has been resorted to, to relieve a patient from the distressing circum-