13 ABORTION. ABLACTATION, ablactatio, Lat., wean- ing, Eng.—Ablactation in the Latin language means weaning, and refers to the child. In medicine, however, the effects which are pro- duced by the spontaneous or compulsory ces- sation of the secretion of milk deserve to be considered;—1. in reference to the mother; 2. in regard to the child. (See Lactation.) ABLATION, ablatio, L. from the verb aufero, to take away, which makes ablatum in the supine. In its general acceptation it expresses the separation, extraction, violent removal, or plucking away of any part that may be superfluous, inconvenient, hurtful, or foreign to the body. Hippocrates applied it to any sort of evacuation, the emission of blood for instance. In operative medicine it is used less to designate one of the various modes of exeresis than as a generic name for all forms of amputation and extirpation, which may be regarded as two species derived from it. Some surgeons employ the term in a more restricted sense, when they speak of the ablation of an exostosis, of a portion of carious or necrosed bone, &c. The ablation of parts is sometimes designated by particular words indicative of the manner in which it is effected, such as excision, resection, &c. or of the consequence of the ablation itself, such as circumcision, castration, &c. W. B. C. ABORTION (obstetricy), abortus, aborsus, affluxio, Lat. Aicup9opa, iKT^uorryoQ, Gr. avorte- ment, Fr. Fehlgeburt, Ger. aborto, Ital. aborto, ma/parto, Span, miscarriage, Eng. Definition.—The expulsion of an embryo or foetus1 from the uterus before the sixth month of gestation, at which period of existence it cannot survive to maturity, and is therefore generally considered non-viable 2. The expulsion of a foetus after the sixth month of uterine gestation is termed prema- ture labour, as the phenomena and treatment 1 The term “ embryo” is used in obstetricy to designate the impregnated ovum, during the first three months of intra-uterine existence; that of “ foetus” from that period to the end of gestation. 2 There are, however, cases on record of infants horn at the age of four months and half, which were said to have arrived at the adult period of life; and the parliament of Paris decreed that an infant bom at the fifth month was capable of living the ordinary period of human existence. Fortsimons related a case of an infant bom at five months and a half, which survived for some years; but the opinion of modern obstetricians is, that this foetus was older. A large majority of physiologists and medico-legal authors agree in the conclusion, that infants born before the com- pletion of the seventh month have a very slender chance of surviving ; and many contend, on this ground, that no conviction for infanticide or conceal- ment of pregnancy ought to take place in such cases. It is to be remembered, however, that the embryo is a living being from the instant of conception, and that abortions or premature deliveries are compara- tively few in proportion to natural parturitions ; and therefore that the existing law is humane and just. If the contrary opinion obtained, it might be as fairly argued that ail feeble and delicate infants might be destroyed after birth, as was ordained by the laws of the ancient Spartans. of such cases are the same as in natural par- turition, and as the infant may survive for some time. From the time of Aristotle down to the last century, the expulsion of the ovum from the uterus before the seventh day has been often designated effluxion, and after this age and before the fortieth day, abortion. Bona- ciolus held this opinion : “ Effluxiones quae intra diem septimam ; aborsus quae primis mensibus ; abortus quae intra quadragesimam These distinctions are, however, arbitrary and insignificant, and have been long disre- garded. Abortion or miscarriage may occur at any period of uterogestation, but it is much more frequent during the first two or three months. It is generally admitted, that at this time the slight connection between the embryo and the uterus, the increased afflux of blood to this organ from the moment of conception, and according to some authors, the hemor- rhagic effort at the menstrual periods render women very liable to abort. It is stated by some obstetricians, that the greatest number of abortive foetuses is of the female sex, though the contrary is more ge- nerally supposed to be the case. Morgagni satisfactorily refuted the former opinion. Ac- cording to him, the excessive development of the clitoris at the early age just mentioned, might be readily mistaken for the external male organ of generation. Madame La Chapelle states, that of 21,960 pregnancies, there were 116 abortions, and these were more frequent at the sixth month than at the fifth, and next at the third, than at any other period of pregnancy. The more ge- neral opinion, however, is that abortion is of more frequent occurrence in the earlier stages of pregnancy. According to my own obser- vations, abortion is most common from the second to the fifth month after conception. M. Velpeau endeavours to reconcile these conflicting opinions, by stating, that abortion is productive of such little inconvenience in the first months of pregnancy, that many women were not admitted into the Maternity for that disease, or that the ovum or embryo was frequently confounded with sanguineous clots, which led patients to suppose they had only a return of menstruation. Causes.—The causes of abortion are remote and proximate, or efficient and determinant. The efficient or proximate are the contrac- tions of the uterus as in natural parturition, aided by the efforts of the abdominal and respiratory muscles. The remote or deter- minant causes may be subdivided into predis- posing and occasional. The predisposing causes may affect the woman or the foetus respectively. As re- gards the woman, some belong to the organ- ism in general, others to the sexual organs in particular ; and as regards the foetus, to a par- ticular or anormal disposition of its organiza- tion, or to its diseases. 1 De Formatione Foetus. 15