124 AMPUTATION. Tumours not in their nature destructive to life.—Among the diseases sometimes requiring amputation, may be placed certain tumours which cannot otherwise be removed, and which, although not of a malignant character, exercise a dangerous local influence by their volume or position. Such are certain exosto- ses and fibrous masses, which by their pressure on large vessels impede the circulation, and may sometimes occasion mortification, or which, by irritating and cramping the nerves, become insupportable. Elephantiasis1 has also been treated by amputation. Aneurisms that have produced irreparable injury to surrounding parts, or the treatment of which, by ligature, owing to the diseased state of the vessel tied, has been followed by secondary hoemorrhage, come in the same category. Whenever vessels are so injured that the circulation cannot continue in the limb, but may go on in the stump, (which sometimes happens, since diseased arteries will often perform their functions in the middle or upper part of a limb when they cannot at its lower extremity,) amputation is the only resource, and ought to be adopted. Mortification, or Gangrene2.—It is deemed advisable to perform amputation in cases of mortification, in order to spare the patient the long and sometimes hazardous process, which Nature requires for the separation of the dead parts, and for the purpose of securing a good and useful stump3. With these, we think a third motive ought sometimes to be allowed to have influence, namely, that the operation itself may produce a salutary effect upon the system. Where mortification of the whole, or of the chief constituents of a limb is produced by an ex- ternal cause, amputation ought always to be performed, unless there be something in the state of the patient to forbid it. It is a ques- tion which has often been discussed, whether or not amputation should ever be performed before the mortification has limited itself. In injuries, such as gun-shot wounds, some parts are quite disorganized, and may, therefore, be considered dead, or in a gangrenous state, from the moment of their infliction; others are so far disorganized that the vital processes cannot go on in them, and therefore, they die at the very commencement of the local inflammatory effort which is necessarily con- sequent on all wounds. For lesions of this sort,—indeed, for all traumatic and mechanical injuries of this severity, the sooner amputation is performed the better, as there can be no doubt of the advantage of substituting a clean healthy wound and a cicatrizing process for a ragged laceration and sloughing process, at the earliest possible period. To effect this, the great care 1 Mr. Crosse lately amputated in a case of elephan- tiasis, and the result was successful. 3 These are synonymous terms, and we use them as such. s Sir Astley Cooper thinks that Nature separates the parts so as to leave a good stump. of the surgeon must be to cut above the dis- organized parts, to let the knife and saw fall upon healthy tissues. When mortification results from an internal cause, the latter may be general, that is, it may result from a disease pervading the prin- cipal part of the vascular system, or having its seat in some other leading organ or organs ; or that cause may be local, may reside in, and be confined to the vessels of the limb ; and it is only in the latter case that amputation is applicable. There is, however, a state in which amputation may be advisable, which I do not find that authors have marked,—that in which the solids and fluids happen to be in a deteriorated condition at the time of the in- fliction of some local mechanical lesion. Here the general bad condition of the body may cause mortification after an injury of the limb, which, in a healthy subject, would have escaped it. Now if the operation in this case were likely to produce a salutary reaction, which I think possible, it would be justifiable to adopt it. In such a case, where it is hoped the operation itself may have a general beneficial influence, it should be performed at the time the patient appears most susceptible of the healthy re- action ; and I think that will be early. Wait- ing for the gangrene to limit itself would be waiting for what could not take place. I admit that the difficulty of distinguishing this state is extreme, but when detected, no time should be lost. When mortification is the result of internal disease, the operation should not be per- formed until an inflammatory line in the living parts has marked its limit. In this case, it were useless and cruel to amputate prior to the spontaneous limiting of the gangrene. Perhaps in this case it may be often better to leave the amputation to Nature. It has been stated that when amputation is, performed before the mortification has stopped, the stump will become gangrenous, whether the cause of it be external or internal. But is this sound doctrine ? Is there any physiolo- gical reason why mortification from a cause purely external should make its appearance in healthy parts cut through in the operation ? Indeed, one can scarcely see how it should happen. A local injury, as we have stated, causes the death of parts at once, by com- pletely disorganizing them ; or it so far dis- organizes them that they cannot bear the supervening inflammation, but die in that pro- cess which is then said to terminate by gan- grene. But mortification from a local cause is not in itself a spreading disease, as Larrey and some others seem to suppose : it is the death of a part from disorganization. When death seizes the surface of the stump, it arises from one of the three following causes : Either from the shock which the whole body received with the local injury, or because it was in a deteriorated condition at the time the injury was inflicted, and remained so at the time of amputation ; or because the ope-