737 OATHETERISM. the case is otherwise when the transverse portion of the gland is enlarged and uplifted,— when the Incite, by adding to the elevation of the transverse portion, increases the curve of the urethra,—when irregular membranous productions are carried forward, from the sides of the sinus, at the base of the verumontanum, or,—when, in fine, there happens to be any accidental inequality of this posterior part of I the prostatic urethra. When any of these impediments exist, our sole resource, when I using the ordinary instrument, is to aim at | avoiding them, by altering the plane in which | the point of the instrument is directed, keep- ing it pressed to the upper surface of the | urethra. With a catheter, shaped in the man- ner just alluded to, we have the further power ! of depressing and effacing them. The difficulties of cathcterism, arising from | deviation or distortion of the course of the 1 urethra through the prostate, have been al- ready alluded to. These deviations obtain 1 obliquely, from below upwards, when the pro- state is enlarged equally throughout its entire volume ; or laterally, when the gland is enlarged on one side only. Deviations in the course j of the urethra generally, may be produced by tumours formed in its vicinity. We have seen the urethra turned from its usual course, in consequence of an inguinal hernia, a hydro- cele, malformed penis, &c., but these are ex- | ceptional cases, and do not belong to cathe- tcrism, considered in a general manner. It has been already stated that the extensi- bility of the urethra was limited, by the nature and fixity of the parts by which it is sur- rounded. Bearing this fact in mind, we can readily understand how the canal is length- ened and rendered loose in old age. In ad- vanced life, the venous system generally is 1 engorged, the veins of the penis are varicose, | the vessels of the cavernous bodies have be- come flaccid, and are considerably dilated ; hence, all the pendulous portion of the penis is capable of considerable elongation. The I same condition of parts prevails also in the fixed portion of the urethra, and to such an | extent, particularly when the prostate is en- larged, as to carry the termination of the ure- thra in the bladder to a greater distance from the pubis, and to elevate it more towards the 1 hypogaster ; under these circumstances, a ca- theter of but the ordinary length, may fail to : reach the bladder. i The length of the catheter should, there- j fore, not be alone relative to the age of the person on whom it is to be employed, but also, to the condition of the canal itself, and that of the parts surrounding it. A catheter, five or I six inches in length, will answer for a child ; the adult age requires one of double that length; and in the condition of the urethra just described, a still longer instrument is re- quired. For the purpose of smooth and easy j sounding, the catheter should be chosen of a size that will nearly equal the diameter of the urethra, in the adult, and more especially still in advanced age. A large instrument, VOL. I. when not disproportioned to the calibre of the canal, developes its walls fully, and unfolds the lining membrane, in an uniform manner, and thus the stoppages, that a small instrument is liable to on the slightest misdirection, are wholly avoided. This rule should always be attended to when we are called on to perform cathcterism extemporaneously; but when cir- cumstances require the instrument to be left in the canal for any length of time, the ad- vantages for facilitating the introduction de- rived from our choice of a full-sized instru- ment, are counterbalanced by the greater ease with which one of smaller diameter is borne. The precept here recommended is one of greater importance than is generally imagined. There can be no doubt, that in many instances, where a catheter is supposed to be arrested by spasm in the course of the canal, and where the surgeon accounts to his patient and to him- self for the circumstance on this account, that no such stoppage would have at all taken place, had he employed an instrument of larger size. Spasm, indeed, but seldom, and perhaps never, except when coincident with congestion or phlogosis, opposes any prolonged and effectual resistance to the passage of an instrument directed by a practised hand. In laying down any rule for the surgeon’s guidance in performing catheterism, the de- gree of curvature, or the straightness of the instrument, must, for obvious reasons, be taken into account. To illustrate this point, let us suppose, in the introduction of the catheter, that its bee has arrived under the symphisis pubis, the handle of the catheter must now be lowered down between the thighs, before it can complete its course onwards to the bladder. Now this movement of lowering the handle must be less or more extensive in proportion, as the catheter is more or less curved, and the most extensive, if it be altogether straight; or, in other words, the extent of the move- ment of lowering, will be inversely as the ex- tent of the curve, and vice versa. When we employ a catheter, whose bee forms a rapid and prolonged bend, from the axis of the straight part of the instrument, the bee arrives in the bladder before its handle is brought down between the thighs, so that if the patient be recumbent, the urine must ascend directly against its own gravity, which it sometimes will, being forced upwards by the strong con- traction of the bladder. When the boc has arrived in the bladder, if the shaft of the ca- theter be brought down between the thighs, the bee ascends behind the pubis, and as the eye of the instrument may then be raised above the level of the fluid contained in the bladder, it cannot of course find issue. With a catheter of considerable curve, the bladder cannot be completely emptied in the recum- bent posture; neither can the lower part of the bladder be properly examined, in order to detect a stone, with sounds of a deep-curved shape : instruments for this purpose should be short enough in the curve to admit of being turned entirely round in the cavity of the