595 CANCER, ANATOMY OF. stance. Exposed to the action of the air, it gradually liquefies; it is miscible with water and hardens in alcohol and the acids. Lob- stein relates some experiments by Hecht, undertaken with a view to establish its inti- mate composition : the chief result of these was, that gelatine entered very abundantly into the constitution of hard specimens, albu- men into that of softened, while fat occurred in neither. Morin, Collard de Martigny, and Wiggers also agree in enumerating gelatine among the constituents of eneephaloid : on the other hand, in the subjoined analysis of this morbid product by M. Foy, the most elaborate yet published, not a particle of that principle is noticed :— Albumen White fatty matter . 7-50 Red do . 5-35 Osmazome . 4-00 Fibrine . 6-50 Water . 8-00 Oxide of Iron . 1-35 Subphosphate of Lime . 6-30 fSoda . 2-75 Carbonates of< Lime . 4-00 C Magnesia .... , 1-00 Hydrochlorates of { g°j^SSa " ‘ 2-70 . 2-00 Tartrate of Soda . 0-35 Maunoir had previously ascertained the ab- sence of gelatine in this substance ; and Mul- ler, who divides all adventitious growths, in respect of their chemical composition, into three classes, the albuminous, the gelatinous, and the fatty, ranks cancerous formations with the first, and ascribes the occasional de- tection of gelatine by chemists to the associa- tion of cellular membrane with the matter analyzed. He affirms that, except in one case of eneephaloid in the kidney, he never ob- tained any notable quantity of that principle, even after submitting the morbid matter to twenty-four hours’ boiling. Casein was dis- tinctly detected in the same organ. Wiggers discovered phosphuretted fat in this species of growth ; Gugert biliary fat (Gallenfette) in a specimen occurring in the eye. Form.—Eneephaloid occurs as a distinct tumour, or is infiltrated into the tissue of or- gans. Such tumours are either encysted or non-encysted. The investing cyst, when such exists, is described by Laennec as a smooth membrane, about half a line thick, of a silvery white colour, imperfectly transparent, and easily separable from the enclosed mass. M. Cruveilhier refers to a well-marked case of en- cysted cancer of the liver : here a number of tumours, fluctuating precisely like abscesses, filled with eneephaloid detritus of puriform consistence and bounded externally by fibrous cysts, were scattered through the substance ot the organ ; their cavity was traversed by vessels of various sizes, supported by fibrous tissue. The non-encysted variety is ordinarily spheroidal, but may be flat, oval, or perfectly irregular iu shape. A sort of pseudo-cyst, varying in density with the situation of the tumour, is occasionally formed by condensa- tion of the adjacent circular membrane. The cancerous grow'th may in these cases be enu- cleated with the greatest facility. Under this head may be included M. Cruveilhier’s form of “ disseminated masses,” which, though occurring in various tissues, manifests a par- ticular predilection for the liver : in this organ the number ot the tumours of various sizes may range between one and several thousands. The surface of eneephaloid tumours is finely mammillated, botryoidal, or irregularly lobu- lated ; in some instances convoluted like the exterior of the brain. In rare instances, when a true or false capsule exists, the periphery of the tumour is perfectly smooth. Super- ficial tumours of the liver occasionally pre- sent a remarkable cupular depression in their centre : this peculiarity has been attributed to the peritonaeum adhering to the surface of the growth when small, and obstructing its central development- We have more than once seen a similar appearance in superficial eneephaloid of the lung. The colour of the exterior of cerebriform tumours varies with their state of vasculari- zation ; whitish yellow is perhaps the most usual tint, but it is not uncommon to find it either reddish, pink, or generally or partially bluish ; all four colours may coexist in diffe- rent quarters of the same surface. The infiltrated or diffused form is that in which the adventitious matter is deposited in the interstices of a tissue, gradually transform- ing that tissue into a substance identical with itself. This form, very rare in some organs, as for example the testicle, is common in the liver, and is observed where the disease ex- tends by continuity from one tissue to another. Dr. Carswell’s observations on the form in which carcinoma is deposited claim attention. In the earliest stage of the process of trans- formation, when the cancerous matter is first perceptible, it assumes, according to this pa- thologist, the form of the elementary physical constituents of the organ in which it occurs. This may be distinctly seen in the instance of the acini of the liver and of the fibre of muscle. In other organs, such as the lym- phatic glands, brain, and testes, such arrange- ment of the adventitious substance is not traceable ; but this is not owing to its absence, but to the colour, homogeneous aspect or mi- nute structure of those parts rendering its de- tection difficult. At a more advanced stage of the disease the form derived from the structure of the affected part is lost ; the shape of the carcinomatous growth is hence- forth tuberiform, stratiform, or ramiform. Dr. Carswell has ingeniously shown the influence of extrinsic circumstances in determining these varieties of shape. But this influence is only occasional; for in some instances the form of a carcinomatous growth can only be explained by inequality of internal development: so, at least, it has appeared to us. When de- posited in a situation where it undergoes equal pressure on all sides, the matter assumes Q Q 2