264 ANEURISM. Ligature of the superior thyroid,: — This branch arises from the carotid, at or near its bifurcation ; it takes a curved direction down- wards, and inwards till it reaches the upper part of the thyroid gland. The operation is the same as in cutting down upon the carotid itself, in the superior triangular space. It will be found accompa- nied by one or two small veins, between the carotid, and the lobe of the thyroid body, where it may be easily isolated. Ligature of the facial or external maxillary and lingual arteries :—This branch of the ca- rotid arises higher up than the superior thy- roid, from which it is separated by another important branch, the lingual. An incision the same as for the carotid itself, should be made so that its middle would be just on a level with the cornua of the thyroid cartilage. As soon as the sheath of the carotid is laid open, the facial artery will be seen ascending obliquely upwards and inwards towards the lower jaw. The lingual artery will also be easily disco- vered running a little deeper, first in a hori- zontal and then in an oblique or vertical di- rection, between the os hyoides, and muscles of the tongue. Another method has been proposed for tying the lingual artery. On reaching the upper part of the great cornua of the os hyoides, it lies close behind it, but it then as- cends, advancing between the middle con- strictor of the pharynx, and the hyo-glossus muscle, until it gets to the distance of nearly an inch from the body of the bone in front. The operation is performed in the following manner. The patient being placed on his back, the neck stretched and the face turned away, an incision of an inch or better in length, is made in the direction of the artery, above and parallel with the os hyoides. The skin and platysma myoides being divided, the facial vein is drawn backwards with a blunt hook. In the upper part of the wound the submaxillary gland is seen, its sheath having been opened ; the digastric and stylo-hyoid muscles are also exposed ; these being also held aside, the hyo-glossus muscle is disco- vered, beneath which the artery lies. This muscle must be divided with care, raising the fibres with a dissecting forceps, or dividing them on a director. It is easily isolated : the hyo-glossal nerve runs above it. (No.3,fig. 85.) This artery is mostly wounded in attempts at suicide ; in those cases it may be tied on the surface of the wound. It gives origin to the ranine arteries, which lie at each side of the fraenum. (See Ankyloglossum.) ARTERIES OF THE HEAD AND FACE. Ligature of the facial artery on the lower jaiv: — The artery in this situation, lies in front of the edge of the masseter muscle, and being quite superficial, it can be easily felt pulsating upon the edge of the bone. The direction of the incision may be either horizontal or obliquely vertical. Beneath the fascia, the artery with its accompanying vein is immediately seen. (No. 2, fig. 85.) Ligature of the temporal artery:—This ves- sel is easily found about three lines in front of the ear, and just above and behind the zy- gomatic arch. An incision, about an inch in length, will bring it into view; it is seen en- veloped in a strong cellular sheath furnished to it by the temporal muscle. It can be iso- lated without difficulty. (No. 1, fig. 85.) Ligature of the occipital artery.—Derived from the external carotid, this vessel passes below the upper portion of the digastric mus- cle, under the upper part of the mastoid muscle, and crosses the upper and back part of the neck. Its course is horizontal for about an inch, just below the ear and mas- toid process. An incision drawn in this di- rection, and in a line with the edge of the lower jaw, will fall upon the artery ; it is ac- companied by a vein, and gives off several branches which intertwine with those of the vein. It is easily isolated. (No. 1, fig. 81.) From the exposed situation of the arteries of the head and face, their aneurisms are chiefly of the traumatic kind. Spontaneous aneurisms have also been observed both with- out and within the cranium. Begin relates a case in which an aneurism was formed in the middle meningeal artery. The bone having been absorbed, the tumour became superficial. It was mistaken for an encysted tumour, and extirpated. An ineffectual attempt was made to arrest the haemorrhage by plugging ; the patient however could not be saved. Mr. Hodgson mentions a case in which he found a small aneurismal sac in the anterior cerebral artery, which was filled with a solid coagulum ; and another of the basilar artery has been observed by M. Serres. Sir A. Cooper found a small aneurismal sac on the central artery of the retina. All the external branches have been also observed in divers instances to be the seat of spontaneous aneurisms, the aneurismal tu- mours presenting themselves in various points of the temporal, occipital, labial, and facial arteries ; and M. Godichon has seen a case of aneurism of the frontal branch, in which the sac was as large as the thumb. Dr. P. H. Green has recently met with a case of spon- taneous aneurism of the temporal artery. If the aneurismal tumours that are deve- loped within the cranium could be diagnosti- cated with certainty, as indeed they may be when the bone covering them has been re- moved by absorption, the proper remedy would be the ligature of the carotid artery of the same side. This proceeding is also gene- rally preferred in the cases of external aneur- isms that have proved rebellious to compres- sion, excepting in the aneurisms of the facial and temporal arteries. The cylindroid dilatation of these external vessels has been also observed. While re- cently on a visit to Glasgow, my friend, Dr. John M‘Farlane of that city, showed me a case of this kind in a gentleman about twenty 11