255 ANEURISM. /wok, d; c cc, the ligature passed beneath the artery, and still held in the eye of the needle. No. 2. Shows at one view, the three several points upon which a ligature may he placed on the axillary artery ; viz., just below the clavicle, below the pectoralis minor, and within the border of the axilla. The external border of the wound is formed by the deltoid, which is retracted. The internal, by the axillary margin of the pectortdis major. The pectoralis minor is di- vided, and its remnants are seen in both the borders of the wound at its upper part, a a, the axillary artery, (firing off the acromio-thoracic and long tho- racic arteries ; b, the median and musculo-cutaneous nerves ; c c, the axillary vein, receiving the cephalic vein, which dips down to it, crossing the axillary ar- tery, with the deltoid branch of the acromio-thoracic artery at the upper angle of the wound ; d d d, re- tractors ; e e e, the three ligatures placed at different points of the artery. Ligature of the artery in the axilla.—The patient being placed in the recumbent pos- ture, and the arm raised, the pulsations of the artery are felt ; the skin is then divided along its course, to the extent of two inches or two and a half; the incision commencing above, and running longitudinally, at about half an inch within the anterior border of the axilla. In this manner, the knife falls on the edge of the coraco-brachialis, and this is a point of some importance, as leading to the median nerve ; this being found, the artery lies to its inside, and beneath it. If any of the other nerves should happen to be mistaken for the median, the indication, of course, will be fallacious. For the details of this operation, see No. 1, fig. 78, a.id the lowest of the three ligatures marked e, fig. 79. The incision of the skin exposes the fascia and cellular tissue, which must be carefully divided on a director. The arm is then low- ered a little, the median nerve is held to the radial side by means of a blunt hook, and a needle is passed under the artery, which is cautiously isolated from the internal cuta- neous, radial, and ulnar nerves, and the axil- lary vein. From the moment the plexus comes into view, the knife should be laid aside, and the operation completed by means of a blunt blade of silver, or ivory. This operation may be resorted to in cases of aneurism of the upper part of the brachial artery, or in cases of wounds of the lower part of the axillary vessel itself. John Bell mentions a case in which the axillary artery was divided with a scythe ; the haemorrhage ceased from syncope, and Hall seized the upper division of the vessel through the wound, and tied it. Maunoir of Geneva treated another case of a sabre wound of the artery by enlarging the wound from the axilla, and placing a ligature, both on the upper and lower divisions of the vessel. While the question of the value of Bras- dor’s method remained undecided, it might have been expected that its application to an- eurisms of the axillary artery, which gives off such a number of minor branches in its course, would meet but little encouragement. Velpeau, however, hints, that if there was sufficient space between the aneurismal tu- mour and tne giving off of the circumflex and scapular branches, that there might be a rea- sonable chance of success, and the ideas ex- pounded by Mr. Wardrop, in the general ar- ticle on this subject in the present work, are calculated to gain favour for such a proceed- ing, more especially when the aneurismal tu- mour is not of considerable size. It should be recollected, that the chief ground of fear in treating axillary aneurisms, by ligature above the tumour, either below or above the clavicle, consists in the extension upwards of the diseased condition of the parietes ; and that if the application of a ligature on the ca- pillary side of the tumour failed, the resource of taking up the vessel between the tumour and the heart would still remain. Ligature of the artery, below the pectoralis minor.—The course of the artery in this si- tuation, corresponds with the cellular line which separates the pectoralis major from the deltoid; the cephalic vein runs in this line, and will serve as a guide for the incision. The patient is placed on a bed, the head and chest raised, and the arm carried away from the trunk. An incision is then made in the muscular interstice already mentioned, from above downwards for two and a half or three inches, extending obliquely from below the clavicle, to the border of the axilla. The cephalic vein uninjured is included in the pectoral edge of the incision, and the two muscles being separated, are held apart by the assistants. The pectoralis minor is thus ex- posed, together with the cellular tissue which envelopes the veins, arteries, and nerves. If the finger be now passed beneath the cord which they form together, they may be drawn more fully into view. The vein distended with blood, will be discovered in front, and to the thoracic side of the artery, the artery itself is seen entering between the two roots of the me- dian nerve, and the rest of the plexus, which lies on its scapular side. Delpech, in his case, raised the whole mass in this manner on his finger; but this step is not necessary, as the artery can be detected, and isolated with a blunt-pointed instrument, without disturbing the parts. A curved needle is then intro- duced beneath the vessel, from within out- wards. Before the ligature is tied, due care should be taken that no nerve is included. If any of the small thoracic arteries should impede the operator, he may tie and divide them. The tendon of the pectoralis minor itself, may, for the same reason, be cut across ; but as this must necessarily weaken the shoulder, it ought not to be done, without positive necessity. For the details of this operation, see No. 2, fig. 79, the middle liga- ture marked e. As no one would seriously propose at the present day to operate for an aneurism in this situation, with a view to opening the sac itself, the ground on which the propriety of ap- plying a ligature upon the middle division of the axillary artery rests, is that it spares branches that are of importance for the nu- trition of the arm. It is unnecessary to allude