203 FISTULA, INTESTINAL. irreducible. So great is the constriction in some instances that actual strangulation occurs. M. Puy of Lyons has related two instances in which strangulation of the prolapse was at- tended with a fatal result. Flajani1 also, has re- corded the following case. Bernardino Fac- chino had undergone the operation for bubo- nocele eighteen years since ; a small fistula remained, through which a part of the leces passed : one morning whilst making repeated efforts to expel his feces without the truss, which he usually wore, he perceived the passage of a portion ol the intestine through the fistula ; and it increased in proportion to his efforts. Vomiting and fever ensued ; and he entered the hospital the following morn- ing. “ I found,” says Flajani, “ a portion of small intestine, eighteen inches in length, livid and flaccid, protruding from the fistula ; the belly tumid, pulse irregular, extremities cold. I endeavoured to introduce a probe-pointed knife, and to dilate the aperture ; but this was not possible. The symptoms continued ; and in a few hours he died.” ii. Intestinal fistula complicated with hernia.— Internally the two divided portions of intestine, w’here they join each other at an angle, form a kind of pouch communicating with the gene- ral cavity of the abdomen. Into this bag the loose viscera are received, and under great pressure of the respiratory muscles sometimes form a hernial protrusion at the abnormal opening. VII.—Accidents liable to occur after Recovery. After intestinal fistula has closed, the pa- tient frequently remains liable, from irre- gularities in diet, to attacks of colic, and obstruction of the bowels ; for, although the intestinal canal may have been sufficiently restored to allow of the passage of liquid mat- ters, it nevertheless is often reduced in size below its natural capacity, and is unable to transmit solid masses of undigested food. A case recorded by Mr. A. Burns 2 w'ell illus- trates the diminished capacity of the bowel after closure of a fecal fistula. The patient had suffered from femoral hernia, followed by fecal discharge, which ceased entirely in two months ; death subsequently occurred from inflammation of the bowels. On dissection, the ileum above the injured part was found to be considerably enlarged and perforated, below it was much reduced in size, and the intermediate portion was not larger than a goose-quill. In consequence of this diminished size of the bowel, solid substances are arrested at the part, and excite spasmodic or inflammatory affections. Hence it is found that those indi- viduals who have recovered from intestinal 1 Collczionc d’Osscrvazioni e Riflcssioni, &c. tom. ii. quoted in the Quarterly Journal of Foreign Medi- cine, No. x.; and in Lawrence’s Treatise on Ruptures, p. 429. 2 Monro on the Morbid Anatomy of the Gullet, Sec. p. 399. fistula are peculiarly liable to attacks of colic from irregularities in diet. Sometimes the mischief resulting from the obstruction is more serious. In the case recorded by Scarpa', to which we formerly referred, the shells and claws of cray-fish w'ere arrested at the injured part of the bowel, the coats of the intestine were ruptured, and feculent matter was effused into the cavity of the peritoneum. La Pey- ronie2, in his “ Memoire sur la Cure des Her- nies avec Gangrene,” relates the case of a female, W'ho, after the closure of the adventi- tious opening, was subject to frequent attacks of colic, one of which at last proved fatal, being attended with perforation of the intestine, and feculent effusion. Similar cases are recorded by Morand3, Richter *, and others. Occasionally the inflammation, excited by the accumulation of hard and undigested sub- stances at the contracted part, causes the cica- trix to open. This result may be regarded as a favourable termination of the obstruction ; for the feculent discharge thereby obtained is generally followed by a relief of the inflam- matory symptoms, and the wound, in most instances, soon closes. The subject of a case, recorded in the Histoire de la Societe Rovale de Medecine6, survived the operation for hernia eight years, during which time the cicatrix opened frequently, discharg'ed feculent matter, and again closed. A patient under the care of La Peyronie, six months after closure of a fistula, was seized with pain in the cicatrix : abscess followed, and a small portion of bone was discharged. The wound closed in two months. In a case of femoral hernia related by Pelletan, obstruction took place from indigestion; a tumour formed and burst, and the fistula afterwards closed. VIII. — Treatment of Intestinal Fis- tula. After reflecting upon the published re- cords, which refer to the spontaneous cure of intestinal fistula, and to the occasional failure of this process; the surgeon will enter upon the treatment of abnormal open- ings in the intestines with the firm con- viction, that, in many instances, he ought only to be a quiet spectator of nature’s W’ork ; that he may, sometimes, gently aid her efforts, by removing or mitigating such causes as disturb or interrupt her functions ; and that, occasionally, wdien the natural efforts fail, he may feel justified in interposing the bolder hand of art. It is not our present purpose to discuss the treatment of hernia in a state of gangrene (see Hernia) ; but we shall proceed to the subse- quent stage of the malady, when the sloughs have separated, the feces are escaping from the wound, granulation is commencing, and 1 Treatise on Hernia, Wishart’s translation, p. 304. 2 Mem. de l’Acad. Royale de Chir. tom. i. a Academic des Sciences. 1735. 4 Traite des Hcrnics, p. 153. s Tom. iv. p. 321.