449 AVULSION. When an extensive part of the body, such as a limb, has been separated by avulsion, the ! shock to the nervous system, which is the usual attendant on serious injuries, is induced. This proves occasionally almost immediately fatal. In many cases, however, the symptoms at first are less prominent, and there is much less pain experienced than in other injuries not so serious. This may probably depend on the sudden and forcible manner in which the in- jury is produced. In the well-known case of Wood the miller, as detailed by Cheselden in the Philosophical Transactions, the arm was torn off, at the shoulder, with such velocity, that the patient was not aware of the accident till he saw his arm moving round on the wheel. A boy in a cotton-factory had his fingers en- tangled in the machinery, which was in rapid motion. The occurrence was immediately observed by an adult workman, who rushed to his assistance, but so incautiously, as to become himself the chief sufferer. The boy escaped with the loss of his fingers, and the man had i his hand torn off above the wrist. He was aware of being injured, but did not know for i some time that the hand which he saw hang- I ing on the machinery was his own. A wealthy merchant of Glasgow was riding quickly on horseback, and the night being dark, he came suddenly upon a horse and cart on the road. He threw out his hand against the opposing horse to push it from him, and was not aware till he had gone to a considerable distance, that his thumb was torn off. The carter was not a little astonished next morning to find a thumb and a long tendon attached to it, sticking in one of the links of the harness. The local appearances of an extensive avul- sion, are those which characterize lacerated wounds ; they will, therefore, be more appro- priately considered under that head. It is sufficient for our present purpose to state, that the wound thus produced is jagged and irre- gular, especially when the injured parts consist of a variety of dissimilar tissues. In the scalp, which frequently suffers from this accident, the edges of the wound are often as smooth and clean as if formed by a scalpel. Besides the nervous shock consequent on the injury, and its usual concomitants, various secondary, or symptomatic affections, may su- pervene. In one case, avulsion of the thumb was followed by fatal tetanus. In three cases of avulsion of the leg, retention of urine took place, requiring the daily and continued use of the catheter. In one of these only was there any reason to suppose that the spine was in- jured. 1 his patient was admitted into the infirmary on the 5th of July, 1831. A few hours previously, while asleep in the flour-mill in which he was employed, two of his fellow- workers, for the purpose of awakening him, fixed a rope to his right-ankle, the other end of which was attached to a part of the ma- chinery, then in motion. He was instantly pulled up to the roof, a height of eight feet, and his leg being caught by a revolving wheel, was forcibly torn from his body, a little below voi.. i. the knee. He then fell on his back on the floor. In our absence, amputation above the knee was performed by the late Mr. Angus. The retention of urine called for the regular use of the catheter ; the stump suppurated ; high irritative fever, with delirium supervened, and he sunk on the 20th day from the accident. There are several successful cases on record, in which no regular amputation of the lacerated stump was performed, the ragged inequalities of the soft parts, and bone, being only re- moved. When the injury occurs at the shoulder or hip joints, no other treatment can be pursued; but if there is sufficient room left for a second amputation it ought to be per- formed. We cannot expect that such a lace- rated wound, however nicely it may have been pared, or accurately closed, can possibly ad- here ; the contusion of the parts will not only interfere with this desirable termination, but may lead to gangrene, to profuse suppurations, projection of the bone, or secondary haemor- rhage. The torn extremities of the nerves some- times become the seat and source of excru- ciating and intractable pains, which is seldom or ever observed when the lacerated parts have been amputated. This symptom we have uniformly observed after avulsion of the scalp, an accident occurring to women, and that not unfrequently, in our public works. There is at present in the infirmary a young woman who had about two-thirds of the scalp torn off, and the pericranium laid bare, her hair having been caught by machinery. The case is doing well; but she is subject, and has been so since the third or fourth day after the injury, to excruciating neuralgic pains of the head and face, especially on touching slightly the re- maining portion of the scalp on the forehead and temples. Occasionally, these pains en- tirely disappear after the wound has cicatrized, in other cases, however, they continue ever after, and are a source of great suffering. 2. Surgical Avulsion.—This may be either simple or compound. The former constitutes the entire operation, as in the forcible removal of polypi ; while compound avulsion forms one of the elements only of a more complex operation, which is commenced by incision, with more or less extensive dissection, as in the extirpation of deep-seated tumours before the separation of the disease, by laceration of its attachments, can be effected, and complete avulsion produced. This operation has been employed in a great number of cases, a few of which we shall simply enumerate, leaving a detail of the mode of pro- cedure, of the instruments to be employed, and of the practical results, to future articles in which they will come more appropriatelj'’ to be con- sidered. In the mean time we may enumerate, as the most common surgical affections to which avulsion is applicable,—the extraction of hairs from the eyelids, in certain diseases of these parts ; of the nails of the toes and fingers; of mal-placed, supernumerary, or ca- rious teeth ; oi nasal, antral, pharyngeal, G G