43 EAR, AND HEARING, DISEASES OF. Nature of Cases. No. of Cases. Effects of the Air- douche. I. Deafness with- out muculent accu- mulation and with- out buzzing. 29 Nil in the greater number. Some slight confusion of the head and even head-ache was produced in some, espe- cially in women. 2. Deafness with- out muculent accu- mulation, but with buzzing. 52 Great increase of buz- zing and deafness, verti- go, and confusion of the head, all of which, how- ever, soon passed off. 3. Deafness from muculent accumu- lation. 121 More or less improve- ment in five-sixths, i.e. in 100 of those operated on. A complete cure in 15, but relapse after a long- er or shorter time, not- withstanding the conti- nuation or the repetition of the treatment. In two only was there a perma- nent cure; but of these, one went afterwards to Brazil, and M. Itard did not continue to hear of the case; the other was a young woman of seven- teen, in whom regular menstruation was at the same time established. 4. Deafness with muculent accumu- lation and buzzing. 48 Improvement or cure in 12, which, however, continued no longer than three weeks. In the re- maining 36 no effect, or increase of the buzzing as well as the deafness. 5. Deafness with muculent or puru- lent accumulation, and with destruc- tion or perforation of the membrana tympani. No effect on more than the half, and in the rest very temporary im- provement. M. Itard has also found the cures effected by simple injections of tepid water not per- manent. M. I. concludes that it may be established, that injections into the tympanum can he of advantage only in cases in which the deafness is owing to a material cause in the Eustachian tubs, cavity of the tympanum and mastoid cells. For cathcterism to be successful, he adds, in curing, not only must the matter be re- moved, but its source also. According to Kramer’s “ Tabular view of the frequency and curability of Diseases of the Ear,” out of 300 cases of diseases of the ear of all kinds, 200, in round numbers, re- quired the air-douche to assist the diagnosis, but about 30 only were improvable or cura- ble by it. Of the remaining 170, about 30 arc put down as cured, and about 30 as relieved, by the injection of vapours of acetic ether ; this treatment having been continued for months. Of the remainder, 80 were con- sidered incurable from the first, and not treat- ed, farther than was necessary for exploration, I suppose ; the rest remained rebellious to treatment. Dr. Kramer does not tell us how perma- nent his cures were. It will be seen from the above statement of the results of Itard’s experience, and also from what I have re- lated of my own, that the advantage gained is seldom permanent. This, however, I would remark, ought not to be considered a sufficient reason for rejecting the use of the air-douche, for even this temporary improvement from it is greater and more marked than can be effected by any other plan ; and possessing the means of effecting improvement, even though temporary, is a great step, and ought to encourage to further observation and re- search. At any rate, the air-douche is indis- pensable as a means of certain diagnosis. Accidents from catheterism of the Eustachian tube, and injections of air into the middle ear. A person has suddenly died under an ope- ration with the air-douche, but the exact cause of death has not been satisfactorily ex- plained. Emphysema has not unfrequently occurred. This must be the result of lacera- tion of the mucous membrane of the nostrils, or of the Eustachian tube, and such laceration must be caused by rudely introducing the ca- theter, especially if it be small, and forced too far into the Eustachian tube. Rupture of the membrana tympani is not to be wondered at if the catheter be thrust far up into and im- pacted in the Eustachian tube, or the nozzle of the pipe of the air-press pushed home into the funnel end of the catheter, and the stream of air sent in with force. Inflammation and abscess of the cavity of the tympanum. If the cavity of the tympanum be com- pared with the sinuses of the face, the maxil- lary sinus for example, a general anatomical similarity will be perceived, which points to a similarity in their general pathology. The maxillary sinus is the seat of affections simi- lar in their general pathology to those of the middle ear just considered. That which is now about to engage our attention is of the same nature as abscess of the maxillary sinus, but, from the proximity of the tympanum to the brain, abscess in it is apt to be attended by the severer general symptoms of abscess in the orbit. Inflammation and abscess of the cavity of the tympanum occurs either in an acute or chronic form. The inflammation affects the membrane lining the cavity of the tympanum in its capacity of periosteum, hence the bony walls readily become carious ; and this even- tually leads to implication of the membranes of the brain, and even the brain itself. Acute form.—The patient complains of vio- lent pain deep in the ear aggravated by chew- ing, sneezing, coughing, stooping, and the like. The mastoid process is, perhaps, painful on