CANCER, PHYSIOLOGY OF. (512 Med. Chir. Trans, vol. viii. p. 13. regarded as perfectly certain. opens a free passage for the expansion of the mass. An important illustration of this oc- curs in carcinoma of the meninges, the eye and orbit, &c. Further, idiosyncrasy probably influences the celerity of growth. As speci- mens of the quick progress occasionally ob- served, the reader may refer to some cases related by M. Andral1: in one of these, the most satisfactory in its details, an encephaloid growth of the greater omentum, rapidly ex- tended from the great curvature of the stomach to the pubis, daily acquired an increase in size perceptible both by the eye and hand, and ultimately carried off the patient in less than five weeks from the appearance of the first symptoms. Dr. Carswell and Recamier nar- rate similar examples occurring in the lungs and uterus, and we have ourselves met with an instance of equally rapid growth in the ex- tremities. On the other hand these growths sometimes scarcely exceed a walnut in size years after their first appearance : and the large tumour described by Gooch2 had gradu- ally increased in bulk during fifty years. Dr. Carswell observes that the more the varieties of carcinoma resemble the natural tissues of the body, the more abundantly they are sup- plied with cellular and fibrous membrane, the less rapid, cceteris panbus, is their develop- ment. Effects on adjoining parts. — While the growth of carcinomatous tumours advances, the condition of the surrounding tissues may either remain unaltered, or, as is much more uniformly the case, undergo some one or more of a variety of changes. In certain situations cancerous deposits may acquire considerable volume without ap- parently influencing the substance of the part in which they arc formed. This is observed in the lung and in the encephalon, even when no cyst intervenes between the abnormal and natural tissues ; hundreds of tumours are some- times found in the liver, separated by per- fectly normal structure. This is usually ex- plained by supposing the adjacent structure to be driven aside, in proportion as the morbid matter is deposited ; but if this were the case, indurated condensation would be produced ; a stratum of tissue of variable thickness is probably removed by absorption. The simplest effect produced on the circum- jacent substance is its condensation. Of this we may again find an example in the pulmo- nary organs ; subpleural encephaloid of such magnitude as nearly to fill one side of the chest and dislocate the heart, may not other- wise affect the lung than by compressing it into a small firm mass. This fact is more familiarly exemplified in the condensation of the adjoining cellular substance by subcu- taneous tumours. Aided in some instances by slight hypertrophy of the cellular laminae, 1 Archives Generates, &c. t. ii. p. 209. 5 Cases and Remarks; p. 165. 1758. The cncc- pnaloid nature of this growth cannot, however, he a pseudo-cyst investing the morbid growth is thus developed. The formation of this natural barrier between the diseased and healthy tis- sues, more frequently observed in the case of encephaloid than of scirrhus, no doubt helps to defend the latter from infiltration with the morbid matter. The substance thus cut off, as it were, from surrounding parts, has less tendency to contract adhesions with them—a circumstance furnishing one of the diagnostic signs between the two species of cancer men- tioned. Secondly, these tumours produce mechanical effects regulated by their size and position. Thus if developed around the vena porta, they interfere with the circulation in that vessel and induce ascites, &c. ; if em- bracing or pressing on the aorta, they may cause partial or total obstruction of its cavity, as in cases related by Cruveilhier, Velpeau, and Lawrence1. When seated in the orbit, they cause gradual dislocation and extrusion of the eye, &c. Thirdly, discoloration of the neighbouring parts is sometimes effected in a manner as yet unexplained : thus the fat ad- joining mammary carcinoma assumes a yel- lowish saffron tint. In advanced stages of cancer in the same organ, the integuments ac- quire a dingy green or olive hue, ascribable, as Dr. Hodgkin mentions, to changes in the venous blood. Various alterations of tint fol- low, too, from mere languor or obstruction in the tegumentary circulation. Fourthly, cancer, when so situated as to oppose the on- ward movement of the contents of hollow viscera, leads to hypertrophy of the muscular apparatus behind the obstruction. Thus in anal carcinoma the muscular tunic of the rec- tum undergoes thickening ; w'hen the disease is seated at the cardia, the oesophagus is simi- larly affected. The increased nutrition is however the mere result of the additional muscular power required to overcome the mechanical obstacle, and is not a specific effect of carcinoma. But a change of nutrition of another kind is sometimes observed in cance- rous organs. In scirrhus of the mamma, as has been observed by Sir C. Bell, Scarpa, and others, the proper tissue of the gland oc- casionally suffers atrophy; in such manner that a breast in which an heterologous growth is encased hardly or not at all exceeds its healthy fellow in bulk. In other cases, on the contrary, the diseased organ undergoes general enlargement, or parts of it may be atrophous and others tumefied. The first of these cases is termed by Recamier hypertro- phous, the second atrophous engorgement: the combination of the two states produces in- equalities and bumps. Fifthly, carcinoma sometimes produces absorption of the part on which it presses. This is exemplified in the progress of meningeal cancerous growths w'hich, after producing perforation of the cranium, sprout out through the opening: mediastinal carcinoma, also, not unfrequently leads to attenuation of the sternum, in the