173 EXOSTOSIS. periosteum as a very important agent in the production of new bone, also that there should be a portion of a living bone upon which the de- position of fresh bony matter may commence. “ The periosteum furnishes the secretion, with- in, from which the separation of phosphate of lime takes place, and it excites its restraining influence in giving form to the deposit.” “ I am inclined therefore to believe that shortly after the infliction of an injury, the portion of bone about to furnish the sequestrum, as well as the parts immediately adjoining it, become the subject of inflammation, and that the ef- fusion consequent on this is the cause of the deep-seated enlargement which we first per- ceive. Whilst the injured bone is still living, it concurs with the portion from which it is to be separated in favouring the separation of phosphate of lime ; having done this and set up the deposition of phosphate of lime nearly all around it, its life is no longer necessary to carry on the process, but its continuance as a firm and solid body is of the greatest im- portance in maintaining the future direction and strength of the limb.” It would appear therefore, that in supplying the deficiency occasioned by exfoliation, the vitality of the uninjured bone was dependent on the supply of blood it received through the periosteum ; and that the blood thus con- veyed was as capable of secreting an organ- izable substance, which would afterwards become converted into new bone, as it would be of continuing its supply of nourishment to the bone, if no injury had been inflicted. So that though periosteum cannot be said to secrete bone in the way that a mucous mem- brane secretes mucus, yet the vessels that pass from the periosteum to the bone are the vessels that convey the blood, from which bony matter is deposited. Symptoms.—The symptoms of the various causes leading to exfoliation will be found de- tailed under their separate heads, and for these the reader is referred to the articles before alluded to when speaking of the causes of exfoliation. But exfoliation, having once become established, will be indicated by one or more ulcerous or fistulous openings leading down to the dead bone, usually enlargement of adjacent bone, and inflammation, to a greater or less extent, of the surrounding soft parts. On passing a probe into these aper- tures, the rough and denuded bone will, in most cases, be readily detected; at the same time its condition as to its attachment to the living bone will be easily discovered. Prognosis.—In deciding on the termination of a case of exfoliation, the opinion must be guided by the causes of its production, toge- ther with the situation and extent to which the disease has gone- In extensive exfolia- tion of the bone3 of the cranium from syphi- litic and mercurial disease, in a person of cachectic habit, or worn down by excesses of any kind, of course an unfavourable prog- nosis must be given. But in cases of exfolia- tion of many other bones, for instance, of the inferior maxilla or tibia, &c. from injury, in due time nature will safely effect her own ends. Treatment.—The indications as to treat- ment in cases of exfoliation are sufficiently marked by the nature of the disease itself: one main object is to afford our assistance in effecting the separation of the dead bone, and its removal from the body. It will be seen from the foregoing history of this affection, that nature is rendering all the aid in her power to accomplish this end. When the powers of the constitution are good, it may safely be left to work its own cure ; and as soon as the dead bone is completely detach- ed, it may be laid hold of by means of for- ceps and removed. But when the action is slow and unhealthy, it will be advisable to apply stimulating applications, such as the di- luted nitric acid, and thus hasten the separa- tion of the dead bone. If the sequestrum can be felt loose, and yet wedged in bv the new bone, and if the constitution appear to be suffer- ing under general irritation, and the discharge occasioned by its presence, the bone should be cut down on, and the opening in that bone enlarged by means of the trephine, cutting forceps, or Hey’s saw, and the dead bone ex- tracted. We should always bear in mind, that as soon as the removal of the dead bone can be accomplished without injuring the neighbouring new bone, it should be done; for as long as the dead bone remains, so long will a discharge of pus continue, frequently occasioning constitutional disturbance, and weakening the health of the patient. During the continuance of the process of exfoliation, the application of fomentations and poultices will afford the most relief. The constitutional treatment must greatly depend on the nature of the cause producing the disease. But whatever be the cause, if the powers of the constitution should appear sinking, tonics, generous diet, and support in every shape, should be administered, so as to keep up the failing strength, and support the patient through an exhausting and tedious disease. (John Morgan.) EXOMPHALOS (from e?, out of, and on<pa\og, the navel, Gr; exumbilicatio, hernia umbilicalis, Lat. ; Nabelbruch, Ger.) The hernia which occurs at the aperture of the navel, and is most frequently observed in in- fants. See Hernia. EXOPHTHALMY. This term is so vague, that it is by us laid aside. EXOSTOSIS (from f?, out, and oonov, a bone). Syn. tZoaroxnc,, Gr. ; Hyperostosis Exossatio, Lat.; Exostose, Fr.; Beingeschwulst, Ger. Exostosis signifies a more or less cir- cumscribed hard swelling, connected with bone, whether its substance be entirely com- posed of ossific matter, or made up of a com- bination of bony and other matter. This de- finition will include all varieties of exostoses ; G