348 ANUS. the perineum. In both of these cases, I had made the incision at the place where the anus ought to have been ; dilated the wound with prepared sponge, and, in fine, perforated the rectum distended with meconium. The in- fants became yellow, and died in a few days. I attributed the unsuccessful results to the re- sorption of bile and meconium, as they passed along the bleeding cellular surface of the arti- ficial opening. Being averse to Littre’s ope- ration, I was still of opinion that it would be better to restore the natural passage, if the danger arising from the resorption of these fluids could at the same time be guarded against, and this I thought might be effected by drawing the intestine down to the external opening, and then fixing it by points of suture. Experiments on the formation of artificial anus in animals, had convinced me, that, by this means alone, the evils of resorption, infil- tration, or stercoral abscess were to be with certainty avoided. “ A proposition so extraordinary wras not adopted at once. My fellow-consultants made many objections, chiefly on the score of hae- morrhage, abscesses, &c., which were fairly discussed ; and it was not until I had fully developed every step of the plan I meant to execute, that I could obtain their consent. These steps were as follows : to make au opening in front of the coccyx, behind the vaginal anus, to detach with the finger, and with the bistouri the posterior paries of the vagina, from the coccyx and sacrum ; to as- cend thus to the cul de sac formed by the rectum, and, after recognizing it both by the vagina and by the new passage, to lay hold of it with a pair of erines ; to detach it all round more with the finger, than with the bistoury ; to draw' it down to the opening in the integu- ment, open it largely, and, after allowing the meconium to flow, to connect, in a secure manner, the opening of the intestine with that of the skin.” “ The state of the ease being once more sub- mitted to the parents, and having now an- nounced to them, that if the operation proved successful, there would be no recto-vaginal fistula, wre found them resigned to the bold operation we were about to perform. “ The infant in the mean time had been placed in an emollient bath, in order to calm the irritation produced by our explorations, and by this means, was still better disposed for the proceeding. “ Every thing being now ready, the infant was placed on a table, in the same position as for lithotomy. A transverse incision of about eight lines in extent, was made just behind the vaginal anus, with a short-bladed bistoury, convex on its edge ; another incision directed towards the coccyx, gave the form of a T to the opening by which my finger was intro- duced, to make a passage between the vagina on the one hand, and coccyx and sacrum on the other, having previously placed a sound in the vaginal anus, to serve as a guide, to pro- tect its posterior wall from injury. I partly cut and partly tore the cellular tissue uniting these parts. Proceeding in this way, I pene- trated till I discovered the end of the rectum, at the depth of two inches. From the in- stinctive efforts of the child, we were all much better able now to recognize, through the va- gina, the sort of pouch formed by the rectum. I now seized it with a double erine, and draw- ing downwards, I disengaged the intestine from the slight adhesions by which it was on all sides surrounded, except on that of the vagina, where I was obliged to make a cau- tious use of the bistoury. The extremity of the rectum soon became visible within the wound, and, to our great satisfaction, we saw the meconium oozing out at the punctures made by the crooks of the erine. Having passed a needle and thread through the end of the intestine, it was brought dowrn to the level of the integuments. A large opening was now made, from w'hich issued a quantity of meconium and flatus. The operation was terminated in the following manner:—traction having been kept up by means of forceps, un- til the lips of the wound in the intestine were drawn beyond the opening in the skin, I at- tached them by three points of suture at each of the angles of the wound ; but these being found insufficient to prevent the intestine from ascending, six or eight points more wrcre made all round its circumference. Fig. 107. Fig. 107. In order to render the details of this opera- tion intelligible, M. Amussat has given a plan of the parts as he supposed them to exist before the opera- tion. He took pains to make the analogy as complete as possible, by taking his sketch from a left-side view of the interior of the pelvis in a female child who died a few days after birth. All the organs in the pelvis had been cut in two, part of the rectum was removed, to represent the deficient portion of the intestine, and the anus was made to communicate with the vagina, a and b represent the anus and vulva, which were properly formed, and communicated icith the vagina only, c, the extremity of the rectum forming a cul do sac below the sacro-vertebral angle, and /airing no communication with either the anus or vagina. “ There was but little blood lost; injec- tions were thrown up to empty the bowels; the child w'as placed in a hip-bath, and poul- tices were applied. She soon recovered her