EAR, AND HEARING, DISEASES OF. 39 No improvement immediately after air was sent into the tympanic cavities by a forced expiration with the nose and mouth closed. Left side treated. No improvement imme- diately after. Wednesday, 3rd.—The above detailed ex- ploratory treatment led me to form the fol- lowing opinion of the case, which was sub- mitted to Sir James Clark at a consultation to-day :— Diagnosis.—This new attack of deafness is owing, not like the former, to accumulation of mucus in the middle ear, but probably to some change, such as thickening and the like, in the mucous membrane lining the tympanic cavities, produced by the neglected inflamma- tory attacks. Prognosis.—Some improvement of the hear- ing may be effected by prolonged treatment, but by no means to the amount obtained before. Treatment. — The only local treatment which experience recommends, is acting on the membrane supposed to be affected, by the vapour of acetic ether injected into the tym- panum. This course of treatment, however, is not to be commenced until the state of the throat and of the intestinal mucus membrane has been improved, the nasal catarrh com- pletely gone off, and counter-irritation kept up for some time on the sides of the neck be- hind and below the ears. To take an emetic, and afterwards some laxative and alterative medicines. Blisters to the sides of the neck. Wednesday, 10th.— Has taken the medi- cines, and has had the blisters applied. Hearing much the same. Thursday, 11th.—Right ear, one foot; left car, eight inches. Nostrils too tender to allow the passage of the catheter. To take, for some time, small doses of mer- curial chalk every night, and a little rhubarb combined with neutral salts in the morning. To continue the local treatment. Friday, 12th.—Hearing same as yesterday. Air-douche and ethereal vapours applied to the right ear; after which the hearing dis- tance was fourteen inches. Saturday, 13th.—Right ear,fourteen inches; left ear, one foot. Left ear treated. After the treatment the hearing distance was one foot and a half. Monday, 15th.—Right ear, one foot and a quarter; left ear, one foot and a half. Right ear treated. After this the right ear heard the watch at the distance of one and a half foot. Tuesday, 16th.—Right ear, two feet and one inch ; left ear, one foot and a half. Nostril of the left side too tender to admit the introduction of the catheter without pain. The catheter was introduced into the Eusta- chian tube of the right side and some air blown in, but the nostril was too irritable to bear the presence of the catheter long enough to finish the treatment. To apply a leech to the entrance of each nostril. Wednesday, 17th.—The leeches have been applied. Right ear, one foot ten inches ; left ear, one foot eight inches. Left ear treated. Thursday, 18th.—Right ear, two feet four inches ; left ear, one foot ten inches. Right ear treated. Friday, 19th.—Right ear, two feet and a half; left, ear, one foot ten inches. Left ear treated. Immediately after treat- ment the hearing distance was found risen to two feet and a quarter. Saturday, 20th.—Both sides much the same as yesterday. Right ear treated. After that the hearing distance was two feet ten inches. Monday, 22d.—Right ear, three feet two inches ; left ear, two feet five inches. Left ear treated. Wednesday, 24th.—Right ear same as at last report. Left ear, three feet. Right ear treated. Thursday, 25th.—Right ear, three feet two inches ; left ear, two feet seven inches. Left ear treated. Friday, 26th.—Right ear same as yester- day. Left ear, three feet. Right ear treated. Immediately after the treatment, three feet and a quarter. Saturday, 27th.—Throat sore since yester- day. The tonsils large. Noises in both ears. Right side, three feet; left side, three feet two inches. Left nostril too tender to allow the passage of the catheter. Right ear treated. After this the hearing distance was found risen to three feet and a half. Monday, 29th.—Both sides, three feet nine inches. Left ear treated with the air-douche only ; after which the hearing distance was about four feet. Tuesday, 30th.—Right ear, three feet seven inches; left ear, four feet. Air-douche applied to the right ear. Scarified the right tonsil. Wednesday, 1st of May.—Right and left ears both about four feet. Air-douche applied to the left side. After this the hearing distance rose to four feet and a half. Scarified the left tonsil. The tonsils to be touched with the lunar caustic pencil occasionally. Thursday, 2nd.—Both ears, four feet. Right ear treated with the ethereal va- pours. Friday, 3rd May. — Right ear, four feet three inches ; left ear, four feet four inches. Left ear treated with the ethereal vapours. Saturday, 4th.—Right ear, four feet and a half; left ear, four feet four inches. Right nostril too tender to admit the ca- theter. Left side treated.