67 ECTROPIUM. to the cheek, if the upper eyelid be the sub- ject of operation,—to the forehead in the con- trary case, so that the eyelid operated on may be retained in its natural position. The wound of the eyelid, and the wound at the angle of the eye, are covered with charpie, which is to be retained in position by strips of plaister, without any other dressing. In the course of the after treatment, nothing but charpie, dry or smeared with some mild cerate, is to be applied. The touching of the parts with lunar caustic, even when the granulations rise above the edges of the wound, is to be espe- cially avoided, as the granulations are thereby very much disposed to contract. To the separation of unnatural adhesions or division of the contracted skin, and the ex- tirpation of a portion of the everted and sarcomatous conjunctiva, as described in the preceding method, may be added, when there is much transverse elongation of the tarsus, Adams’s excision of a wedge-shaped portion of the whole thickness of the eyelid, as above described. Here it may be remarked, that, as in the cases under consideration the skin is so much shortened, that it is necessary in per- forming the excision to make use of a small scalpel instead of scissors. Transplantation of a flap of skin from the temple or cheek.—Fricke’s 1 operation.—When after the separation of unnatural adhesions, the extirpation of a cicatrice, or the division of the simply contracted skin, the gap left by the reinstatement of the eyelid in its natural position is very considerable, attempts have been made to transplant a portion of skin from some neighbouring part into it. The flap of skin to be transplanted is usually taken from the temple when the upper eyelid is the subject of operation,—from the cheek in the case of the lower eyelid, and is made of a Fig. 215. form corresponding with the gap, but of a size somewhat exceeding it, in order to allow for the contraction which subsequently takes 1 Blepharoplastik, oder die Bildung neucr Augen- lieder. Hamburg, 1829. place. The flap is raised by dissection, along with as much of the subjacent cellular tissue as possible, but is still left in connexion with the body by means of a slip of sufficient breadth to allow of the blood to circulate in it. After all bleeding has ceased, and after removing any clotted blood that may be in the gap in the eyelid, or adhering to the flap, the latter is to be twisted round and applied to the former, with the edges of which it is to be fixed by stitches, strips of plaister, and bandage. The wound in the temple or cheek whence the flap was removed, is to be allow- ed to granulate and heal in the ordinary way. Fricke recommends the thickened and callous conjunctiva to be removed some days before the operation is performed. Case.—The subject of the operation was a man sixty-three years of age. in whom the upper eyelid was held firmly back and evert- ed, after the healing of a severe burn. The eversion was so great, that the eyelashes were in contact with the eyebrows. The presence of light was painful; and the cornea had begun to lose its brightness. The operation was commenced by a moderately extensive incision in the middle of the remains of the upper lid, beginning at about two or three lines distance from the inner canthus, and one line and a half above the palpebral margin. Fricke now allowed the eyelid to be put on the stretch by an assistant, and finished the incision by carrying it in a curved direction at the required distance from the upper palpe- bral margin, where it was commenced, through the skin to a point about two lines above the outer canthus. The cellular membrane was next separated, and, together with the dege- nerated and condensed muscular fibre, dis- sected away so as to leave bare the conjunc- tiva. The margins of the wound now gaped widely apart, and the upper lid receded. This was the time selected for measuring out the flap to be transplanted, and tracing its outline on the cheek whence it was to be re- moved. The flap was now raised, taking care to leave a sufficiently broad slip of con- nexion at the point of twisting : it was then fitted to the edges of the wound in the lid, so as to be accurately adapted to the separated margins. The patient was much improved by the operation ; the cornea having recovered its transparency, and the conjunctiva lost its swoln and congested state. In short, the new eyelid fulfilled its office perfectly ’. Though the operation by transplantation of the skin has in some other cases been crowned with success, such an issue is still so doubtful, that various attempts have been made to supply the defective eyelid with skin, by simply slipping that in the immediate neighbourhood into the gap produced by set- ting free the eyelid, and bringing it into its proper position. 1 Quoted in British and Foreign Medical Review, vol. vii. p. 405, from Zeis, Handbuch der plastisclien Chirurgie. Berlin, 1838. F 2