CATHETER1SM. 735 sary anatomical and physiological knowledge, sounding the bladder when the urethra is healthy and unobstructed may soon be ren- dered a simple and easy operation. But the instructions derived from books alone will riot suffice ; they are, in too many instances, the offspring of superficial observation or vague theory, and too frequently when obstacles occur, a reference to those rules will afford no assistance whatsoever in overcoming them. The great diversity of conformation in the parts concerned in catheterism, the variety of instruments employed for the purpose, with many other circumstances, seem to authorize the multiplication of rules to govern us in its performance. But the real truth is, the at- tempt to regulate and refine on all the inci- dents belonging to it, by obscuring the sim- ple nature of the subject, has only tended to perplex and embarrass us in the consideration of it. Had the canal of the urethra been of equal diameter or purely cylindrical, and had it followed the same direction throughout its entire length, the operation of passing the catheter would be comparatively simple, and one general rule would embody all that could be said on the subject. But such is not the case. The points, therefore, that occur in its course where the cylindrical form does not exist, and those in which its direction is altered, are those w'hich it is important to study, with a view to the easy, painless, and safe mode of introducing the catheter. Under the head Urethra, these points will be dwelt on particularly, with a view to form a basis for our observations on the intro- duction of the catheter. We shall have to remark, that all the depressions of the urethra are to be found on its inferior surface ; and that all its naturally narrow points are nearly circular, and comprise the entire circumfer- ence of the tube. The greatest depth of those depressions does not correspond to the middle of their length, but will be found nearest to their vesical extremities, and thus when the bee of a sound dips into them it must go on to near the farther end before it reaches the deepest point; the ascent is then sudden, and if the bee is not made to clear it by ascending with the same abruptness, it becomes capped with the membrane,and its progress is arrested. This is the first kind of obstacle, that opposes the progress of an instrument along the ure- thra. The second kind of obstacle arises from the instrument not moving in the axis of the canal; let us take an example : the entrance of the muscular part of the urethra is, with the ex- ception of the external orifice, its narrowest point. A sound corresponding in size is passed without difficulty through the external meatus, because, from its being exposed to viewr, the instrument cannot fail to be duly directed in the axis of the canal ; but when the bee has arrived at this narrow point, the eye guides it no longer, and if the correspon- dence between the bee of the instrument and the axis of the tube be not exact, or nearly so, it is arrested at some part of the rim of the aperture in the triangular ligament. If the deviation from the axis be considerable upwards, the bee of the instrument will abut upon the anterior surface of the triangular ligament : this mis-direction of the point of the sound is favoured by the separation of the cavernous bodies,as they diverge from each other towards the branches of the pubis, leav- ing a small space unprotected just before the symphisis. The handle of the catheter, how- ever, must be thrown back in an unwarrant- able manner before any injury can be done to the urethra under these circumstances. If, on the pontrary, the deviation be considerable downwards, the bee abuts against the horizon- tal perineal fascia, with which the triangular ligament is continuous, or it sinks into the depression of the bulb. These obstacles are more or less consider- able according to the age of the subject. In infancy, and at all periods before puberty, the parts surrounding the urethra are so unde- veloped as to leave the canal nearly of a cylin- drical form, somewhat enlarged towards the bladder. An instrument introduced into the canal while it is so circumstanced meets with no obstacle, provided it be made to advance in the course of its axis. But in old age these obstacles have attained their maximum of de- velopment ; the excavations are deep, the prostate is enlarged, the curvature of the canal is increased, the mucous membrane is loose and soft, and its surface so ample as to cap the extremity of the sound and be easily carried forward upon its point. The different periods of life, therefore, have an undeniable influence as to the ease or difficulty with w’hich cathe- terism may be performed. It will be more easy, cceteris paribus, to sound a child than an adult, and an adult than a man of advanced years. The third kind of obstacle arises from spasm. The modification of vitality on which this phenomenon depends, in so far as it creates an impediment to the progress of an instru- ment, is confined to the muscular portion of the urethra and the vesical sphincter. The sphincter may be spasmed, undoubtedly, but the force with which it acts will not be suf- ficient to prevent the passage of an instrument well directed, if it be not seconded in its re- sistance by the accidental membranous pro- ductions that sometimes exist in this situation, or by an anormal increase of the transverse fibres of the neck of the bladder. Some authors speak of the stoppage of the sound by spasm of the antepubic, or spongy portion of the urethra. Contractions of a transitory nature may certainly occur here, but we are satisfied that they cannot be a cause of impediment in the healthy urethra. We are, moreover, doubtful whether the progress of a properlv proportioned sound can be arrested by mere spasm in this portion of the canal, where dis- ease or alteration of structure exist only in the post-pubic portion of the canal. This point, however, must be reserved for conside-