353 AQUO-MEMBRANITIS. scribed by Soemmering, Logan, and Macken- zie. It has been long known that a species of thread-worm has been found in the cham- bers of the eye in horses and various other animals', but I am not aware that it has been noticed in the same situation in the human subject. Woolhouse, Richter, and subse- quently Beer, have stated that globules of quicksilver have been found in the anterior chamber of the eye in persons who have been using mercury pretty freely, for the cure of syphilis; and the two former authors mention that they have noticed bubbles of air in the same part of the eye independently of any external wound. In the case of hydatids or worms existing within the chambers of the eye, it has been suggested to destroy the life of the parasitical beings, by passing an electrical current through the organ of vision ; by the infriction of tur- pentine around the orbit; and by the adminis- tration of irritating and bitter medicines. It appears to me that the following rules ought to regulate our practice :—So long as the eye is free from material inflammation, no surgical means, at least, are necessary ; but as soon as even a slight degree of irritation supervenes, an attempt should be made to remove it, by the application of cooling lotions, the adminis- tration of purgatives, and the adoption of counter-irritation in some convenient locality. If these means are insufficient—if the irri- tation rather increase than diminish—then it would be proper to evacuate the aqueous humour, by a very small incision of the cor- nea, made nearly at its margin. This simple proceeding may cause the death of the offend- ing agent; but if it should not do so—if, on the secretion of a fresh quantity of aqueous humour, the worm or the hydatid should be found to be alive, and capable of creating great irritation, then it would be quite neces- sary to make an opening in the cornea, suffi- ciently ample to admit of its extraction. AQUO-MEMBRANITIS. Kerato-iritis —Rosas. Inflammation of the capsule of the aqueous humour—Wardrop. Inflamma- tion of the anterior chamber—Lawrence. Aquo-capsulitis—Mackenzie. Inflammation of the membrane of the aqueous humour was first clearly pointed out by Wardrop (Morbid Anatomy of the Human Eye) in the year 1808, seven years after the inflammation of the texture it envelopes (the iris) had been described with such admirable precision and distinctness by Professor Schmidt. General observations.—The disease may be acute or chronic, and it may affect the whole or merely a part of the membrane. I have seldom observed the disease after adult age ; under my own observation it has chiefly oc- 1 Ploucquet—Litteratura Medica Digesta sive Re- pcrtorium Medicine Practice, &c. tom. iii. p. 217. Union and Twining—Transactions of the Medical and Physical Society of Calcutta, vol.i. Laivrencc— A Treatise on the Diseases of the Eye, p. 666. VOL. I. curred in children of a strumous habit, with light hair, blue eyes, a thin skin, and a very delicate organization. Mr. Wardrop appears to have witnessed the disease very frequently, but many of the cases he has related are represented to have occurred in adult and elderly persons'. Mr. Lawrence r says, “ I used to see it in children from two to ten years of age : it is not common in older subjects 1 2.” Mr. Mackenzie speaks of it as a “ rare ophthalmia3.” Of nearly 4000 persons suffering from diseases of the eye, who fall under my notice annually, about twenty-five are affected with the form of disease under consideration ; and of this number, one only, on an average, is more than twenty years old. When the membrane of the aqueous humour is inflamed, the inflammatory action is not disposed to spread to contiguous parts to the extent we might suppose, from a knowledge of its great proximity to other delicate textures. But, if it continues for a long period in a se- vere form, the lamellar texture of the cornea, the proper substance of the iris, and the ante- rior hemisphere of the capsule, are generally inflamed, but not, I repeat, to any serious extent, unless indeed the treatment should have been very inappropriate or altogether neglected. Symptoms.—1. There is generally a faint zonular arrangement of pink vessels around the cornea, not actually in contact with it except at a few points, and then only at the fully established stage of the disease4. The zone is by no means clearly defined ; it is as a faintly tinted and not very dis- tinct circle of minute pink-coloured vessels, the general surface of the eye not appearing- vascular, except on a close and attentive in- spection ; then, indeed, both the conjunctiva and the sclerotica are found to be streaked with a few enlarged vessels, and communicate to the organ, when cursorily viewed at a short distance, a peculiarly dirty and unhealthy ap- pearance. As the inflammation subsides, the zone appears patchy and imperfect, and be- comes of a darker colour, inclining to purple, and sometimes leaves the sclerotica around the cornea a little discoloured, as though it had acquired an extremely faint olive-green tint. If, instead of declining, the inflamma- tion should increase and extend to other parts, the red zone will be more bright, vivid, and distinct, (I allude to what may be termed a pure and clear colour as distinguished from a cloudy and muddy one,) and, should the la- mellar texture of the cornea be materially in- volved, the white line situated between the 1 Medico-Chirurgical Transactions, vol. iv. p. 163. 2 A Treatise on the Diseases of the Eye, p. 274. London, 1833. 3 A Practical Treatise on the Diseases of the Eye, p. 472. London, 1830. < In all cases where the corneal portion of the membrane of the aqueous humour is specially in- flamed, I have observed that the arrangement of ves- sels exists quite at the margin of the cornea, and that no approach to a distinct white line intervenes be- tween the pink zone and the corneo-sclerotic junction. A A