CONDYLOMA. 812 of chronic discharge, and as enlargements of the inguinal glands from irritation, whether of the neighbouring integument or mucous mem- brane, are very frequently observed, it cannot be a matter of surprise if bubo does at times occur. It seldom suppurates. But no im- portant inference can be drawn from that; the suppuration of a bubo depending so much on the conduct and constitution of the patient, as well as on the treatment of the surgeon— circumstances foreign to the special proper- ties of the exciting cause. (See Bubo.) In the ulcerated condyloma bubo is more frequent, and, apparently, more disposed to suppuration. The latter event, however, is uncommon, even in the class of persons re- ceived into the hospital, a class in whom every circumstance concurs to aggravate venereal symptoms. 2. Ulceration of the Throat. The condylomatous sore has seldom existed for any length of time, without the occurrence of ulceration of the tonsils. This is usually of a well marked character. The tonsils are commonly enlarged, sometimes very much so. Their surface displays a peculiar whitish ulcer- ation. For the most part this is very super- ficial ; I have never seen it deep ; occasion- ally, the ulceration is of a yellowish tint, with little enlargement of the tonsils ; but the former condition is by far the most frequent. Such is the association of white ulceration of the tonsils and the condylomatous sore, that the surgeon may, in many instances, predict the one from examination of the other. I would beg to draw particular notice to this point; I am not aware that it has been dwelt upon by other writers. Sometimes the soft palate displays the same kind of ulceration as the tonsils ; it evidently does not go through the eorium of the mucous membrane; it is disposed to spread, and is at- tended with so little pain, that the patient is often not aware of its existence. This form of ulceration of the tonsils and the palate, though more frequently remarked in connexion with condyloma, than with any other primary symptom, is by no means re- stricted to the former. 1 have seen it follow sores of different characters ; and it has oc- curred in persons who could not support mer- cury—nay, has seemed to be occasioned, or has, at all events, been aggravated by its use. 3. Affections of the Tongue and Lips. These are not so common as the ulceration of the tonsils and soft palate. I have observed two forms of affection of the tongue—varieties of 'degree, perhaps, rather than of kind. In one, the tongue has presented small, circular, or nearly circular patches, sometimes redder, sometimes whiter, than the other portions of the organ. In either case, the mucous eorium is evidently thickened—partially denuded of its epithe- lium, when reddened—presenting a morbid state of it, when white. These patches of the tongue are sometimes tender—in general, the contrary. The red patches are most ripe on the dorsum of the tongue, near its centre ; the white predominate at its sides and tip. The latter present very much the appearance of drops of wax having fallen and cooled upon the tongue. Both descriptions of spot are analogous to cutaneous eruptions, and re- semble lepra or psoriasis guttata. The other form of affection of the tongue I have seen but once, as a consequence of condyloma ; although I have observed it seve- ral times in persons injuriously affected by mercury. The tongue seems swollen, it may be much so—has an oedematous appearance, and is in- dented by the teeth—is fissured in various directions—is generally too florid, though oc- casionally blanched—and displays here and there yellowish wdiite ulcerations, disposed simply in hollows or in clefts. In a middle-aged female, who presented such a condition of tongue in connexion with condyloma, the inner surface of the lip was similarly altered ; and the gums were soft, tumid, and partially ulcerated, too. The Affections of the Lips, like those of the tongue, display grades of intensity. On the one hand, we may observe the lip a little swollen, and on it a superficial whitish ulcera- tion, or merely a sort of whitish patch or two, as if the part had been touched with lunar caustic. On the other hand, the lip may be much more extensively implicated. In a girl in the Lock Hospital, the lower one was double its natural size, pouting, and rather everted. The epithelium was whitish and opaque, and con- stantly separated in distinct scales. A super- ficial whitish ulceration was also observed here and there. The tonsils, in this case, were en- larged and slightly ulcerated. 4. Affections of the Skin. The eruptions which are prone to follow condyloma consist of the exanthematous stain, of lepra, of psoriasis, and of desquamating tubercle. I would not be understood to con- tend that no other forms of cutaneous erup- tions can occur. If the patient be broken dowm by mercury, the cachectic eruptions or ulcerations might present themselves. But, as far as I have seen, the affections alluded to are those which seem naturally consequent on condyloma, independently of the operation of ]towerlul disturbing circumstances. The Exanthematous Efflorescence or Stain.— It is usually of a yellowish tint, sometimes of a purplish brown. It is of variable intensity— in one instance being deep in colour; in an- other, almost imperceptible. It consists of patches of irregular form, and of small, though indefinite size. They are usually clustered. They are most apparent on the back part of the neck, on the breast, and on the lower part of the abdomen. The cuticle is slightly dis- posed to scale. There is no appreciable de- posite in the cutis.