303 ANKYLOBLEPHARON. The prognosis depends on the causes, ex- tent, and duration of the disease. Ankylo- blepharon is more easily cured, when it has arisen from external, than from internal causes ; and as regards situation, is more readily cured when it occupies the middle of the tarsal margins, than when it is situated in either canthus, or when it is complete. When in the outer canthus, it is often extremely diffi- cult after operation to prevent the formation of a new adhesion. The success of the ope- ration is more certain in widely slit eyelids, and prominent eyes, than it is under opposite conditions. Malformation, and an impellucid state of the cornea, or an extensive adhesion of them, often present insurmountable obsta- cles to the surgeon. Treatment.—When, in inflammation, there is a tendency to form adhesions between the eyelids, or the eyelids and eyeball, the eye should be frequently opened in order to its being cleansed out by injections of tepid water; an eye-salve, or collyrium, may also be used. Beer prescribes the following to be used several times a day. IjL Butir. recent, insals. jss.; Hydr. praecipitat. rubr. gr. viij.; Vitriol, alb. gr. 1. Tutiae praeparat. gr. x. A solution of Sacch. Saturni, or Zinci sulph. (gr. 1—2) and ^i Aq. rosas, with Tinct. opii ji. will also be very serviceable. Where the eyelids are already glued together, they should be separated with a probe. Once formed, both the ankyloblepharon and the symblepharon can only be cured by a cutting operation. In the case of a con- genital ankyloblepharon, the operation ought to be performed as soon as possible, in order to procure the admission of light into the eyes. The operation is also required in order to give facility for the application of remedies to the diseased cornea or eyeball. A com- plete and incurable deformation of the eye- ball may also require an operation for the purpose of correcting the disfiguration by in- troducing an artificial eye. If any inflamma- tion exist, it should be subdued, or any cachectic tendency of the organism, it should he corrected by appropriate remedies before the operation is performed. The operation is contra-indicated when the eyeball is in- curably diseased, or malformed to such a de- gree that no artificial eye can be introduced. The operation is performed in the following manner: the patient being placed, as in all operations on the eye, either reclining on a slightly elevated cnair, or lying down, the upper lid is raised by an assistant, who stands behind the patient. The surgeon placed in front, draws the lower lid downwards with his fore finger, and making the uniting mem- brane tense, he introduces into the open part of the eyelid a small bistoury, somewhat con- cave on its cutting edge, and terminated in a jijie probe-point two lines in length (Rosas). The bistoury is carried on slowly with its hack turned to the eyeball until the adhesion is completely divided. The surgeon may also perform the operation by means of instru- ments of a different construction, such as a long, slender, probe-pointed bistoury, straight or curved ; or a pair of probe-pointed curved scissors ; or a probe-pointed director, curved on its smooth surface to the form of the eye- ball, with a common bistoury. If the adhe- sion is established by means of an interposed adventitious membrane, the bistoury is car- ried as close as possible to the margin of one of the eyelids : this incision terminated, the membrane is detached from the other lid with the scissors. If the adhesion of the eye- lids be complete, the assistant lays hold of the upper lid in a perpendicular fold, either in his fingers or with a pair of forceps, and raises it from the eyeball. The surgeon then seizes the inferior lid in the thumb and index- finger of his left hand, and divides the fold by a horizontal incision. Into the opening thus made, he introduces the probe-pointed director or bistoury, and the operation is completed as described above. When symblepharon exists, the operation is performed at the same time. The upper lid being raised from the eyeball, the adhe- sions, or membranous bands, are divided with the scissors as closely as possible to the con- junctiva ; they are then seized with a pair of forceps, and neatly cut away from the eye- ball. In many cases of symblepharon, the opera- tion fails from the great tendency of the parts to reunite. In order to obviate this, Ammon has performed an ingenious operation on the principle of my method for producing adhe- sion of the cheeks with the gums. He cuts out a triangular flap from the centre of the eyelid, the base of which is formed by the tarsal margin; this flap is allowed to remain united upon the cornea. The lateral parts of the eyelid are now separated from the eye- ball, and brought to unite over the triangular flap by the sutura drcumscissa. When the margins are firmly united, the triangular flap covering the cornea is removed. After this process, there is but little tendency to re- union in the parts, but it is a plan that can only be adopted where the malformation of the eyelids is not considerable, and where they are not shortened and contracted. In a case of adhesion of the inferior lid with the eyeball, I operated in the following manner : —having separated the eyelid from the eye- ball, I cut off the malformed tarsal margin, and formed a large flap of the skin between two parallel incisions, extending from the in- ternal and external canthus downwards. I turned this flap inwards, and united its inner surface by means of sutures. After some time, when the conjunctiva of the eyeball became perfectly formed, I again separated the united inner surface of the flap, and raising it, I thus formed an inferior eyelid, which had no tendency whatever to form adhesions. After arresting the bleeding by means of cold water, a few drops of pure mild oil are dropped between the eyelids. Several means have been proposed for preventing re-union, 12