ANTHRAX. 327 leg, putting the foot cautiously to the ground, and turning the toes outwards, in which posi- tion the ankle is bent as little as possible, to avoid motion of the yet tender ligaments of the joint. Her only complaint is, that her leg feels so much shorter than it was formerly, or than the other now is, the bones of the leg, as was stated at the commencement of this report, being nearly an inch shorter than those of the opposite extremity ; but the im- pression whilst walking is, that the limb is at least three or four inches too short, which arises from a false sensation, depending upon the former greatly elongated state of it. Her spinal column and pelvis, and the vertebral and pelvic muscles, had accommodated them- selves to the unnatural length of the de- formed limb, and therefore as the ankle-joint is restored to its proper action, and the limb shortened as much as the heel was formerly elevated from the ground (five inches), it is not surprising that the change to her feelings should be so remarkable, and the nature of it so deceptive. A bystander would remark, that even now that the foot is cured, and she has been walking about upon the heel three weeks, the shoulder of the affected side is thrown higher than the other, so slowly do the pelvis and vertebral column right them- selves after having been obliged to assume an unnatural position so many years. At the present time, six months after the operation, she is able to walk and dance almost as well as if she had never been the subject of partial ankylosis. Bibliography.—Muller, Diss.de Aneylosi,in 4to. in Iliiller’s Coll. Disp. Cliir. t. iv. Buchner, Diss. de Ancylosi. Erford, 1/43. Paul, Diss. de Ancylosi, Strasbourg, 1774. Van de Wympersse, Diss. de An- cylosi, Singulari Observatione illustrata, in 4to. bugd. Bat. 1783. Murray, D. de Anchylosi. Upsal, 1797. Hennen’s Military Surgery. Callisen, Sys- tema Chir. Hodier. 1800. Evers, Vabrnehmungen von der Ancstylosi, Richter’s Chirurg. Bibliotli. t. iv. Barton, On the Treatment of Ankylosis by the form- ation of Artificial Joints. Philadelphia, 1827. 8vo. ( IV. J. Little.) ANKYLOTOME, the same derivative, and rsfivuv, ‘to cut.’ A general name for curved knives of every kind. According to Scultetus, it was used to designate a curved knife formerly in use for dividing the frtenum of the tongue. ANTE VERSION, UTERUS OF, from ante, forwards, and vertere, to turn. Antever- rio, Lat. A displacement of the uterus, in which it turns upon its short axis, the fundus of the organ being carried forwards and down- wards towards the pubis; the orifice back- wards and upwards towrards the curvature of the sacrum. In this position, the large dia- meter of the organ is horizontal. (See Uterus). ANTHR ACOSIS, Lat.; AvOpdiewig, Or.; anthracose, charbon des paupieres, Fr.; Augen- brand, Ger. A variety of anthrax which at- tacks (he eyelids, sometimes in bad cases involving the destruction not only of the lids, but of the globe of the eye itself. It is a very rare affection, and is observed almost, exclusively in persons who have long endured privations of every kind, and who have been addicted to intemperate and squalid habits. (See Anthrax.) ANTHRAX, dvQpuK (coal) Gr.; earbo, Lat.; anthrax, charbon, Fr.; Karbunkel, Ger. By this term is designated the inflammation of isolated portions of the dermic cellular tissue. Anthrax presents itself as a circumscribed hemispherical hard tumour, more or less ex- tensive, in proportion to the number of the cellular fasciculi involved ; the centre of the tumour, at first of a dull red, soon assumes a livid or dark colour, which extends over its entire surface ; the pain is at first but slight; it gradually increases till it becomes fierce and burning, and so continues until the exces- sive tension of the parts is taken off by ap- propriate treatment, or they become deprived of sensibility, by the supervention of gan- grene. The terms anthrax and carbuncle are often used synonymously. Dupuytren, however, has shown that their differences are more de- cided than had been supposed, and that they do not depend solely on the degrees of vio- lence accompanying an attack. The gangrene that occurs in the pestilential carbuncle, or malignant anthrax, arises from the nature of the disease itself, namely, the absorption of some deleterious substance, while in the an- thrax properly so called, it is simply a result of the constriction of the parts, and may to a great extent if not altogether be obviated by treat- ment. Pathology.—In order to comprehend the mode in which this constriction of the cellular tissue is effected, it will be necessary to say a few words as to the difference of relation which that tissue presents in regard to the chorion, as com- pared with the state in which it is found, as strictly subcutaneous. The subcutaneous cellu- lar tissue is free from the admixture of any other elements more resisting and inelastic than it- self ; but not so the cellular tissue of the derm. The deep-seated layer of the skin re- ceives prolongations accompanying the vessels and nerves, from the subcutaneous cellular tissue, and which are lodged in its fibrous cells. Every areole or cell of the deep sur- face of the derm is thus filled with cellular tissue. If an inflammation attacks one or more of these cellular bundles, they become distended beyond the powder of yielding of the fibrous areoles in which they are con- tained ; while the cells in their turn compress and strangulate the engorged cellular tissue, and hence both elements are disorganized,— the fibrous cells from distension, the cellular tissue from strangulation. The same condi- tion of parts characterizes furunculus ; but in the latter case, the number of bundles of the cellular tissue affected is very small, seldom more than one or two. The only difference therefore, between anthrax and furunculus is