ANEURISM. 210 sides of the vessel into close contact, or the inner and middle coats may be divided or lacerated by its pressure ; and such division of the inner coats has usually been considered requisite to produce the necessary degree of inflammation of the tunics of the artery, as well as a sufficient exudation of fibrine to secure its closure, and the separation of the ligature. The moderate degree of force which is found sufficient to cut the internal coats of an artery in the dead body, and also in living animals, renders it probable that in the usual mode of applying the ligature, the division of the internal coats of the vessel almost always takes place ; the degree of in- flammation necessary for the closure of the vessel may, it is true, be produced without this division, but when the noose is tightly drawn, though it may create an additional risk of haemorrhage, if the coats of the vessel hap- pen to be diseased, it will secure an early separation of the ligature itself. A temporary ligature has also been em- ployed for the cure of aneurism. It had been ascertained, by experiments on animals, that when a thread is tied with sufficient tightness to lacerate the internal coats of an artery, and is allowed to remain on the vessel but a very few hours, an internal clot of blood is formed sufficient to oppose an obstacle to the circu- lation in the vessel, whilst a sufficient degree of inflammation subsequently ensues to pro- duce adhesion of the coats of the vessel, and a permanent obliteration of its canal. In the few cases in which the temporary ligature has been applied on an aneurismal artery, the re- sults have been such that the practice has not been generally followed ; and even had the precise period necessary for the application of the temporary ligature been accurately ascertained, it would be still a matter of doubt whether or not there would in that case be less risk of secondary haemorrhage, than when a permanent ligature had been employed; tor as the force used in tying the ligature would in either case be the same, any risk of hae- morrhage from the artery being diseased at the point where it was tied, would be precisely the same in both cases. Moreover, the dan- ger of haemorrhage for want of sufficient space between the ligature and the nearest colla- teral branch to procure the stagnation and coagulation of a sufficient quantity of blood to form the temporary barrier, would be equal whichever of these modes had been employed. The want of success which has hitherto attended the use of the temporary ligature, must not, however, be considered a conclusive proof of its principle being incorrect, but ra- ther of the difficulty of attaining the object for which the temporary ligature is intended. It is evident that there must be a specific pe- riod, w hen a ligature applied in the ordinary manner must have effected all the good pur- poses that are required of it. Beyond that period, its longer detention in the wound cannot be of any use, and may be productive of much mischief. If, therefore, the ligature could be removed from the vessel immediately after the adhesion of its coats had taken place, and a coagulum been formed, without in any w’ay disturbing the vessel, or interrupting the adhesive process that is going on in the wound, there w ould still be good grounds for employ- ing a temporary ligature on an aneurismal ar- tery. It appears to me that a plan suggested by Mr. Barker of Ipswich, for removing a ligature at any period that may be required after its application, is admirably calculated to accomplish this important purpose. By this plan, the surgeon has the power of loosening the knot of the ligature, by withdrawing a thread, without causing the slightest disturb- ance of the vessel. This is accomplished with a remarkable degree of facility, in the fol- lowing ingenious manner : The substance best suited for the ligature, is the common, small-sized cat-gut; two small loops of different coloured silk are also re- quired. After the ligature has been conducted by the needle under the artery, one end of the ligature is passed through the first loop, a, and then the first noose of the knot is com- pleted, and drawn with the usual tightness. The same end of the ligature is passed through the second loop, b, (fig. 71), and then the second knot is com- pleted ; that end of the li- gature which is close to it, c, is then cut oft’. The edges of the wound being brought together, the two small loops and the long remaining end of the ligature, d, are to be brought out of the wound. Whenever it is desirable to remove the ligature, the surgeon commences by drawing one side after another of the second loop, b, in a see-saw manner. The noose of the knot will be thus speedily loosened, and the loop escapes out of the wound. The remaining loop is to be manipu- lated in the same manner, and the knot w'ill be thus completely undone, and the ligature now lying loose in the wround, may be with- drawn with the greatest facility. Another mode of employing the ligature has been to apply several threads at a moderate distance from each other along the course of the vessel. This expedient was had recourse to for the purpose of having at hand the means of controlling the flow of blood in the vessel, if the lowest ligature, which alone had been tightened, proved insufficient; but the practice has very properly been long since abandoned. Its impropriety will be at once felt, when we reflect, that the effect of a liga- ture is to excite a degree of inflammation in the vessel, which extends for some way, both above and below the point tied ; while this process is going on, the coats of the vessel are