55 ADHESION. flammation takes place in the cellular tissue, external to the membrane. The possibility of the existence of adhesions should be borne in mind when it is necessary to have recourse to surgical means for the discharge of collec- tions of fluid in the cavity of the thorax. It will not be always easy to determine the best point for the performance of the paracentesis; and it will therefore be best to proceed in all cases as if such adhesions really existed. (See Empyema.) Adhesions of the peritoneum.—The extent of this membrane, and the number and impor- tance of the organs with which it is connected, renders the study of its adhesions extremely in- teresting. (See Abdomen.) In some instances, where peritonitis has been general, it termi- nates (and such a termination may be regarded as favourable,) in the fusion into one mass of the omentum, intestines, &c. An inevitable result of this glueing together of the intes- tines, is the all but suppression of the peristal- tic motion, or at least such a degree of it as would insure the due performance of the func- tions of these viscera. Life, it is true, may be continued under these unfavourable circum- stances, but it is embittered by constant suffer- ing. The embarrassment of function, through the loss of mobility, is aggravated too often by low enteritis, or irritation of the mucous mem- branes of the intestines, which wastes and often destroys the patient. Partial adhesions of the peritoneum.—Adhe- sions of the peritoneum present innumerable varieties in form as well as in organization ; they occur as filaments, bands, looking like ligaments, elevations, &c.; they are laminated, cellulous, fibrous, granular, or infiltrated, or studded with tuberculous deposits. The au- thor of this article has, within a very few days, met with an instance of this kind. But even though not general or extensive these adhesions may be productive of considerable distress, according to the nature of the viscus, whose function they impede ; even rings may be formed, in which fatal strangulation of a portion of intestine may occur. The mind cf the reader will readily supply instances : the loose omentum may contract attachments from one point to another, into which a portion of a neighbouring intestine may be forced ; the impregnated uterus may contract adhesions while high in the abdomen which may impede the progress of parturition, or prevent the re- turn of the organ upon itself when the fcetus and placenta have been expelled, and thus ex- pose the woman to the perils of haemorrhage. The existence of adhesions that impede func- tion is often revealed by a sense of weight, or traction, which is experienced at a particular part, or at a particular time, which is often that at which the impeded viscus is more es- pecially engaged in performing its function, whatever it may be. A partial peritonitis may arise during the formation of an abscess in the liver, inducing adhesion between it and the diaphragm, and the }>eritoneum lining the right hypochondrium ; the effect as regards the adhesions being the same, whether the pus is formed in a cyst, or whether it is collected in the substance of the liver itself. These adhesions are purely preservative, as through them the matter may be safely conducted out of the system by an opening in the parietes of the abdomen, or by working its way upwards through the dia- phragm and the lungs, until it finds an outlet in the bronchi. The same aptitude for adhe- sion brings the liver into union with the other organs that surround it, the stomach, the duo- denum, the gall-bladder, &c.; and through these an outlet may also be obtained for the matter which is voided by vomiting, or by stool. The gall-bladder, too, may, in like manner, be joined by adhesion to the anterior wall of the abdomen ; and this is a point of much surgical interest, as, through means ot the adhesive bond, the gall-bladder becomes safely accessible. But we must observe that the signs indicative of this adhesion are not always such as to give the surgeon full as- surance of their existence ; and without such conviction he will not undertake an operation on the gall-bladder, which, if the adhesion does not exist, must be iollowed by fatal ex- travasation of its contents into the general ab- dominal cavity. Petit, in the Memoirs of the Academy of Surgery, has endeavoured to describe the signs which he considers indica- tive of their existence. He says, “ II the patient lies on his left side, with his legs drawn up to his belly, and in this situation we strive to push the tumour from one side to the other, and we find it cannot be removed from the spot where it rises, it is a sign that it is adhe- rent ; whereas, on the contrary, it is a certain sign that it is not adherent it it follows the motion of the fingers, and can be moved from side to side : if there be oedema, or redness of the external part of the tumour, we may be certain that it is adherent.” This oedema, or doughy condition of the cellular tissue, pre- ceding the march of an abscess towards the surface, has been already noticed in that arti- cle. (See Abscess.) It is a part of the adhe- sive process as it is developed in the intermus- cular or sub-cutaneous cellular tissue, and it exhibits the difference between the extravasa- tion of concrescible lymph and thin serum. An abscess is bounded by its proper cyst, which is coagulated lymph ; beyond this boundary is the thin serum, which infiltrates the cellular tissue in advance of the purulent cyst, giving it the oedematous appearance and doughy feel. But even should these signs be present it w ill be better for the surgeon to establish the opening by means of caustic ; for if the adhe- sions should not be fully formed they will be promoted by the irritation of the caustic, as adhesions of the peritoneum are produced, by external as well by internal irritations. In these cases it will perhaps be useful to bear in mind the feeling of rubbing, which Dr. Bright has found, in cases of adhesions between the visceral and parietal portions of the perito- neum, and in watching the progress of a case to