CATARACT. 732 ration, which have been commonly enume- rated, will be found to have arisen chiefly, if not altogether, from incapacity or inattention on the part of the operator, or from unfavour- able circumstances in the case which rendered the operation of extraction improper. “ The operation of extraction,” says Mr. Travers, “ is by far the most perfect ever devised for the cure of cataract; but it is one of consider- able difficulty, and the several modifications which have been at various times suggested, owe their origin to the disappointments and defeats which operators meet with in learning to execute it with success. The preference entertained for couching, rests on no better ground than its greater facility, and, therefore, less risk. No operation in surgery, I am well satisfied, requires an equal degree of temper and experience for its accurate and successful performance1.” After combating the usual objections to extraction, he says, “ They apply to the performance, not to the principle of the operation and at a subsequent place he adds, “ When the operation is perfect, its pre-eminence is too conspicuous to admit of illustration ; it exacts the homage of admira- tion beyond any effort of the art2.” “ The operation of extraction,” says Mr. Lawrence, “ is particularly applicable to cases of firm cataract, especially in persons advanc- ing in years; the cataract being hard, and less susceptible of absorption, is removed from the eye. The incision of the cornea may be healed in 24 or 48 hours after the operation, the object of which is then accomplished, though it would not be prudent to employ the eye at that time. Thus the advantages of the operation are, the complete removal of the cataract, and the speedy restoration of sight3 *. * * * * Undoubtedly, extraction is an operation of considerable nicety ; and unless it has been frequently performed on the dead eye, the expectation of success on the living subject would be as absurd, as the attempt would be unjustifiable. The operation of de- pression on the other hand is easy, and requires no particular practice beforehand “ Extraction,” says Mr. Liston, “ in favour- able circumstances, and in dexterous hands, is a beautiful operation, and most satisfactory ; but ought not to be undertaken unless the surgeon has perfect confidence in himself5.” “ That extraction,” says Dr. Mackenzie, “ is the only proper mode of removing a hard cataract, is an assertion, the truth of which those who have had any considerable expe- rience in the treatment of eye diseases, and have been able to think for themselves on the subject, are as firmly convinced as they are that soft cataract may safely and satisfactorily be cured by division. To attempt the cure of hard cataract by division would be worse than useless. When no particular contra-indi- 1 Travels’ Synopsis, 322, 323. 2 Ibid, p. 332. 3 Lawrence on the Eye, pp. 429, 430. 4 Lawrence on the Eve, p. 430, 431. s Liston’s Elements of Surgery, vol. ii. p. 131. cation, therefore, exists to extraction, we have recourse to that operation ; and the only points remaining for our consideration are, the con- tra-indications to extraction, which may exist even when the cataract is hard, and the com- parative advantages of a large or small section of the cornea “ Reclination and depression,” he adds, at page 723, “ are to be thought of only when some insuperable objections exist to division and extraction.” The disadvantages of extraction are those arising from inflammation of the eye, but more particularly of the iris, or when a portion of it protrudes through the corneal section, giv- ing rise to closure of the pupil, want of union in the opening of the cornea, or the ulceration of its edges, the escape of a portion of the vitreous humour, and atrophy of the eyeball. When we consider, therefore, the perfect nature of the operation of extraction, and the little injury done to the eye when it is pro- perly and dexterously performed, consisting merely of an incision of the cornea and cap- sule of the lens. When we compare it with the operation of displacement of the lens into the vitreous humour, in which of necessity the vitreous humour and other parts of the eye are lacerated, and the lens allowed to remain and act as a foreign body ; and when we enumerate as the advocates of extraction the names of Wenzel, Beer, Ware, Phipps, Lawrence, Travers, Alexander, Guthrie, and Mackenzie ; when we take into consideration also the grounds upon which the opinions of these men arc founded, after extensive expe- rience and mature deliberation, very little doubt can exist as to the preference which ought to be given to extraction over displace- ment. That there is difficulty in performing the operation of extraction with dexterity and precision no one will deny who has attempted it, though a bystander upon witnessing this might scarcely believe it: this objection to the operation may be overcome by attention and experience. It is, therefore, an objection not belonging to the operation, but attaching to the operator. The dangers, untoward accidents, and risk of destroying the eye, of which much has been said, and with great exaggeration, apply also to the operator, and not to the operation. Concluding remarks. In the remarks above made, the question has been discussed as to the comparative merits of extraction and displacement of the cataract; it is therefore hoped that the reader will be able to form a proper estimate of their relative merits. The truth of the assertion formerly made must now be farther obvious, that the proper treatment of cataract consists not in the adoption of any one operation, but in selecting that best adapted to the circum- stances of each individual case ; a point which can only be decided by a careful consideration 1 Mackenzie on the Ej c, p. 721.