ABDOMEN. 11 with fever and excessive pain, aggravated by the movements of the abdominal parietes ; from the resistance they meet with from the muscles and aponeuroses, they are at first flat, and but slightly elevated, having a tendency to be diffused, rather than to point; they make their way to the surface but slowly, and at last, when they reach it, they often become sharply acuminated ; when opened, the matter that issues is in general highly offensive. The walls surrounding the abscess remain engorged and hard for some time after the evacuation of the pus. The fetor of the pus resembles that of faeces ; a point which it is proper to mention, to guard against the inference that it might arise from a communication between the purulent collection, and the cavity of an intestine. In the early stage, the formation of the matter should be combated by vigo- rous antiphlogistic treatment; when formed, the matter should be let out as soon as fluc- tuation is discerned, to prevent the extensive separation of the layers of the abdominal walls. Wounds of Abdomen.—This branch of the subject must also be reserved for another place (see Wounds) ; a few general observa- tions only will be offered for the present, and merely with a view to illustrate the protective functions of the abdominal walls. We must again advert to the comparison of the cavities of the thorax and abdomen. In the former, the state of permanent extension, with the al- ternate limited contraction and dilatation of its parietes, renders the introduction of air into it inevitable, whenever a penetrating wound is inflicted upon it. In the latter, the reverse of this obtains : the balance of pres- sure and resistance between the walls and vis- cera is so well adjusted, the alternations of distension and collapse in the internal organs, are so accurately and constantly measured by the parietes, that no vacuum is permitted. Until the time of John Bell, surgeons enter- tained great apprehensions as to the effects of air admitted into the abdominal cavity ; he exposed the fallacy on which this opinion was grounded, in his observations on Monro’s work on the Bursa; Mucosae. Cloquet has made experiments on animals, the results of which are confirmatory of the ideas of Bell on this subject. These apprehensions, however, should be set at rest, by what we observe in the incisions, and extensive manipulations of the intestines, in operations on the ovaries, in the Caesarian section, eventrations, divisions of hernial sacs, &c. In a penetrating wound of the abdomen, the admission of air is all but impossible, as directly the wounding instru- ment is withdrawn, some portion of the move- able viscera instantly fills the aperture. The exclusion of the air, or the mode in which it is effected, is indeed less a point of interest than the rapid glueing together of the wounded parts. This property of rapidly ex- haling plastic lymph will be fully considered in reference to purulent collections in the article Abscess ; at present we shall content our- selves by briefly alluding to it. The property of exhaling the elements of adhesion, in con- junction with the universal pressure of the viscera upon each other is such, that a weapon may pass through the cavity of the abdomen, wounding both blood vessels and intestines, and yet there may be no extrava- sation, either from the one source or the other. Hennen, in his Treatise on Military Surgery, relates the case of a soldier who recovered after a wound from a ramrod, the end of which stuck so fast in the spine, that conside- rable force was required in pulling it out. Before Bell’s time it was supposed, that the weapon pushed the intestines aside, and passed without wounding them ; but “ we now' know,” says he, “ that in a thrust across the abdomen, six turns of the intestine may be wounded; each wound may adhere ; adhesion we know is begun in a few hours, and perfected in a few days, and when it is perfect, all danger of inflammation is over, and when the danger of inflammation is over, the patient may w'alk about.” For more ample details on the agglu- tination of serous membranes, see Adhe- sion. Extensive wounds of the abdominal parietes give rise to large eviscerations, to w'hich, although a cicatrix may be formed, the person remains liable ever after, the cicatrix being inextensible and weaker than the rest of the wall. In wounds that do not pene- trate the cavity, it is impossible to deter- mine, a priori, whether the case may be se- rious or otherwise j they may be followed by no symptom of importance, healing up in a few days without subjecting the patient to any inconvenience; or inflammation may arise and threaten to become extensive : they are often excessively painful, ow'ing to the lesions of the nervous twigs with which the abdominal parietes are so plentifully supplied. It should be the surgeon’s chief care to protect the patient against the occurrence of traumatic peritonitis, by the free use of antiphlogistic remedies, which should be carried as far as the patient’s strength will justify. (See Wounds.) Contusions of the abdomen from blows, fyc.— These may interest the parietes alone, when they are termed simple ; or they may affect one or more of the internal organs, when they are said to be complicated. The subject in- volves the consideration of the protection which the parietes afford to the contained organs. We have already alluded to this por- tion of the subject. The universal contact of the contained organs with the parietes, ex- poses them to the effect of external violence, more especially when it falls on the moveable walls. The peritoneum has been known to be completely divided by a blow, giving rise to a protrusion of the viscera, without a covering from this membrane. A cannon shot, may im- pinge upon the surface of the abdomen, and reduce the intestines to a mass of pulp, with- out leaving any external trace whatever. In- juries like these are coincident with a relaxed condition of the abdominal walls ; even the contents of a hernial sac have been ruptured by a blow', without leaving the slightest trace