826 CONIUM. pain in the lower part of the spine, hips, and shoulders, which attend the last days of the unfortunate patient. M. Gasc relates a curious and instructive case *, in which a woman, aged sixty-seven, had for some time presented all the symptoms of a confirmed cancer of the pylorus, and was cured, in the course of ten days, by the em- ployment of conium. The author judiciously observes, although the symptoms closely re- sembled those of carcinoma, and were treated as if they wrere really pathognomonic of that disease, they, in all probability, had been pro- duced by an attack of cardialgia. In cases of venereal nodes, attended with excruciating pain, in malignant sores, and in all instances where the primary disease has induced a high state of constitutional, as well as local irritation, the administration of conium is indicated. It has been strongly recom- mended in scrofula, gout, obstinate cutaneous affections, hooping-cough, rheumatism, en- gorgement of the lymphatics, organic lesions of the liver, stomach, and intestines, and in neuralgia ; but in most of these diseases it has obtained a questionable reputation. M. M. Chaussierand Dumeril have, in par- ticular, recommended the exhibition of conium in cases of tic douloureux ; and M. Biett as- serts that he has frequently administered that drug with success in neuralgia, more especially sciatic neuralgia ; M. Guersent also bears tes- timony to the efficacy of hemlock in the latter affection. The alleged anti-venereal powers of conium had also gained for it much attention at the close of the last century; and those who are interested in that point will find much curious information, and some marvellous cases of cure (?) effected by this remedy, in Van Swieten’s Commentaries on the Aphorisms of Boerhaave. It is still occasionally pre- scribed for certain syphilitic symptoms ; and Kluyskens regards it as a specific for those venereal ulcers which attack the toes. M. Biett was in the habit of frequently adminis- tering conium in secondary symptoms ; but never with success, unless when combined with another preparation, more or less ener- getic. It is our firm belief, that, farther than allaying pain, and rendering the nervous sys- tem obtuse, no other merit attaches to the drug, either in syphilis or cancer; but as a narcotic and sedative, it has these advantages over opium :—Its action is more quick, its anodyne virtues more permanent, and it does not require to be so frequently had recourse to as that powerful medicine. Therapeutic action.—Conium, belonging to the class narcotics, acts as a sedative on the nervous system : it assuages pain, and induces sleep. When given in moderate doses, it oc- casions dimness of sight, vertigo, cephalalgia, nausea, precordial anxiety, and, occasionally, some irregularity in the pulse. It acts on the skin by elevating its temperature, and increas- 1 Journal Generate de Meaccinc, vol. vii. p. 352. ing the cutaneous transpiration. The secre- tion of urine is also increased. If, however, the dose be increased, and continued for some time, it may produce a retention of urine, when that fluid will appear sedimentous and thick, and emit a nauseous odour. Conium appears to exert, according to M. Soubeiran1, a peculiar influence on the lym- phatic system : it not only diminishes the secre- tion of milk, but also acts on the mammary glands, which it ultimately wastes away. If too long continued it deranges the stomach, and, like all other narcotics, its effects vary according to the constitution or idiosyncrasy of each individual ; for example, some patients may commence with large doses without ex- periencing any inconvenience, while, on the contrary, others cannot take more than a few grains, without occasioning symptoms more or less troublesome or serious. Where conium has been overdosed, and acts as a poison, its effects greatly resemble those produced by opium. The respiratory system is chiefly affected ; the breathing becomes laborious ; the pulse small, and beating scarcely thirty in the minute ; the extremities become cold, the countenance bloated, bluish, and turgid with blood. A case of a soldier, who had partaken of soup containing hemlock, and died three hours afterwards, in whom all the fore- going symptoms were manifest, is recorded in Le Journal de Leroux, t. xxiii. Aggasson mentions the case of a man who immediately after taking the conium maculatum had his superior extremities violently convulsed, while the inferior limbs were completely paralyzed2. The most prompt means of abstracting the poison from the stomach must be had recourse to ; and if the stomach-pump be not at hand, the strongest direct emetics should be admi- nistered ; vinegar and vegetable acids are the best antidotes, as they greatly diminish the energy of the poison. Dr. Christison says3 the activity of the alkaloid conia is not impaired, but rather the reverse, by neutralization with an acid. This is directly opposed to the opi- nion of Geiger, for he says, “ its poisonous effect is greatly lessened by union with acids4 Post-mortem examinations of the body dis- play great turgidity of the vessels of the head, and a remarkable fluid state of the blood, which Dr. A. T. Thompson thinks is owing to some chemical influence of the conium, as a small portion of the infusion prevents fresh drawn blood from coagulating5. The stomach and intestines are distended with gas ; the mucous membrane is covered with brownish spots, which appear gangrenous in some places ; the lungs and pulmonary veins are, occasionally, gorged with blood : the heart is soft and flabby. Conin, the alkaline substance which Brande 1 Pictionnaire dc Medccine, tom. viii. 2 Diet, dcs Sciences Med., art. Cigue. 3 Trans. Roy. Society, Edin. vol. xiii. 4 Magazin fur Pharmacic, xxxv. 72 nnd 259. 5 Elements of Materia Mcdica, &c. vol i.