BURS,® MUCOSA. 553 Scalds, chiefly in reference to the principles of treat- ment at the time of their infliction, 8vo. London, 1818. Travers, Essay on Const. Irritation 8vo. London, 1826. Diet, de Medecine et de Chirurgie Pratique. Paris. Diet, de Medecine. Ducuron, Diss. sur les Briilures eonsiderees comrne Accidens. Theses de Paris, 1830. Dupuytren, De la Brulure, Lecons Orales de Clinique Chirurgicale, t. i. Donnellan, John Cullen, Precis sur la Brulure, Theses dc Paris, 1831. Earle, Henry, Two Lectures on the primary and se- condary Treatment of Burns, 8vo. London, 1832. Vi'goal, Essai sur la Brulure, et son traitement par l’usage des poils du Typha. Paris, 1833. Mac/arlane, Dr. J. Clinical Reports, 8vo. Glasgow, 1832. Rust, Dr. J. N. Aufsatze und Abhandlungen, 8vo. Berlin, 1834. (Alexander Ure.) BURS,® MUCOSA (deriv. pipra, a bag). These are small bags of fluid, which are found between the tendons in the neigh- bourhood of joints, between the tendons and the periosteum, and occasionally between the bellies of muscles. They possess a fibrous texture, with an internal, polished, and secret- ing surface. The fluid secreted into them is of the nature of, but not quite so viscid as the synovia. Anatomists generally regard this structure as identical with the serous mem- branes. Dr. Hodgkin speaks of the secreted fluid as the transition between serum and mucus ; which view countenances the fact, that both the bursal and synovial membranes are in- terw'oven in the sympathies of the serous and mucous surfaces. As instanced on the one hand, by the ready translation of gonorrheeal inflam- mation to the synovial membranes ; and on the other, by the metastasis of rheumatic synovitis to the serous membranes of the chest. The evident purpose of these sacs is, that of preventing the evil effects of friction under the movements of the tendons. The bursae, strictly so called, are a normal structure, vary- ing in size from a small pea to that of a hazel nut. But cysts of similar structure, and se- creting a similar fluid, are capable of being generated on parts exposed to much pressure or friction. The bunion is an example of this abnormal structure, familiar to most persons. These are never so completely developed, or so perfect in their organization, as the natural bursae ; their texture is less firm, their secreting surface less smooth, and their secreted fluid less gelatinous. The bursae undergo but little change under disease, beyond the ordinary effects of common inflammation. But w'hen so attacked, much inconvenience, and often very tedious and protracted suffering, is felt not only in the parts themselves, but in those with which they are in immediate contact, and now and then, very serious constitutional dis- turbance attends on the local mischief. The simplest, and most common form, in which inflammation of bursm shows itself, is that of enlargement of the sac, in consequence of an excess of its secretion, by which it is distended to an unnatural size. The tumour thus formed, bears the name of ganglion ; this being an enlargement of one bursa only; its extent is limited, and it presents itself as a definite and circumscribed swelling, seldom extending itself beyond the immediate bursa w'hich is the seat of disease. There is, how- ever, a form of bursal inflammation, more ex- tended in its effects, which often becomes a grave and serious disease. This has its seat in the sheaths of the tendons ; the aponeu- roses, which bind down the tendons, are lined by a secreting surface similar to that of the bursae, this becomes inflamed from the same causes, and the effects are but aggravated from the extent of surface, engaged in the inflam- mation. The generated bursa, inasmuch as it is the product of irritation, under the continuance of the irritating cause which produced it, be- comes often a very painful and troublesome complaint. In order to treat of the disease of the bursae, in such a way as shall best simplify the sub- ject, I propose, first, to speak of the ganglion, then of the thecal inflammation, and lastly, of the bunion. The ganglion is a round circumscribed en- cysted tumour, formed slowly by the enlarge- ment of a single bursa mucosa ; it may be found wherever a bursa is known to exist in the vicinity of the joints and tendinous sheaths ; but the most common situation in which it is observed, is the neighbourhood of the wrist, on the back of the hand, or on the instep. It very frequently occurs also on the ligamentum patellae, below the knee, and on the same tendinous expansion, as it passes over the patella itself; these parts being particularly subjected to the causes of irritation which usually produce the disease. Mr. Key has observed the ganglion on the tendon of the trochlearis muscle of the eye, and on the tendon of the gastrocnemius externus muscle. These tumours, for the most part, are found to exist singly, but fre- quently several are observed in the same indi- vidual. In by far the greatest number of cases the ganglion is a local affection, but sometimes it occurs as the result of rheuma- tic inflammation ; when they exist in numbers, they may be generally referred to constitu- tional derangement. Ganglions vary in size, which may, in some measure, be dependent on the natural size of the bursa. On the wrist they seldom exceed the size of a walnut ; on the ligamentum pa- tellae I have seen one as large as an orange. The external character of ganglion varies much. At one time it is pellucid, compressi- ble, and elastic ; at another, it is firm and un- yielding, giving a sensation, on examination, as if it contained a soft pulp}' substance ; these characters depending on the internal condition of the cyst. They are isolated from the parts on which they rest, and seldom, even in their advanced stages, contract adhe- sions of any strength with the neighbouring structures. They are slightly moveable, and so long as they remain small they are produc- tive of but slight inconvenience. The ganglion is generally produced by some locally irritating cause, such as friction, sudden exertion of the parts, and, perhaps, by stretching of the tendinous parts on which