175 EXTENSION. to refer only to those whose cancellated structure appears continuous with the original bone. He conceives that the enlargement of the bone in these cases is owing to some cause acting upon the lining membrane of the longi- tudinal canals of the outer laminae of the shell of the bone ; and that, consequently, the size of these canals is increased, and the bone as it were pushed out at this part. For a fuller account of these opinions, the reader is re- ferred to the sixth, seventh, and eighth vo- lumes of Med.-Chir. Transactions. The shape and size of these tumours vary exceedingly. They sometimes form a kind of cauliflower excrescence, springing from a large surface of the original bone. Others are of a laminated appearance, whilst some project a great dis- tance in the form of a spicula of bone. These latter are chiefly seen at the tendinous inser- tions of the muscles about the lower part of the femur. Sir Astley Cooper “ is of opinion that it arises from excretions disproportionate to the strength of the subject. The tendons which are fixed in the bone becoming strained by over-exertion, inflammation is excited in them, which is thence communicated to the periosteum and bone, and a deposition is con- sequently produced in the direction of the tendons sprained and inflamed, upon which the weight of the body is more particularly thrown.” The size of these tumours is sometimes very great, impeding the action of the muscles, and thereby rendering the movements of the limb difficult, and in some cases impossible. There is rarely much if any pain complained of when these bony swellings are not of very great size ; but when they are of large growth, the pain and suffering from distention is, for the most part, excessive, and tends gradually to exhaust the strength of the patient. From their situation, exostoses frequently become not only painful, but from pressure on important organs, and encroachment on some of the passages and openings of the body, will in rare instances occasion death. Exostoses arising from the bones of the crania internally, have been known to produce epilepsy, and other cerebral affections: tic doloureux has been found to arise from this cause. They are not unfrequently found to spring from the bones of the orbit, and by their pressure de- stroy vision and protrude the eye. When growing from the jaw, they press upon the larynx and fauces, and may impede respiration and deglutition. In the pelvis, they render parturition difficult and dangerous, and some- times occasion retention of urine, by pressure on the urinary passage. Treatment.—The constitutional treatment of exostosis consists in the administration of mercury in regulated doses, avoiding carrying this medicine to so great an extent as to pro- duce ptyalism ; and sarsaparilla, bark, or other tonics, and the administration of acids, have been found useful in many cases of this dis- ease ; but the advantages to be expected from any of these remedies are not very great, un- less the complaint can be distinctly traced to some constitutional cause. The local treat- ment where there is pain and tenderness will probably be more successful. The occasional application of leeches and counter-irritants will be the best means for removing any in- flammatory action that may be going on, and afterwards the application of stimulating mer- curial plasters will tend to induce the absorb- ents to increased action in the removal of the deposit. But where exostoses have existed for a great length of time, their removal by either of the above means can scarcely be looked for. When there exists a general constitutional tendency to the formation of exostoses in dif- ferent parts of the body, the cure by operation must be recommended with great caution, and only when the situation of a bony growth ren- ders it positively necessary. When an operation for exostosis is de- termined on, the tumour having been laid bare along its whole base, it may be taken away either by means of the saw, the chisel, or the forceps, according to the size and shape of the morbid growth. After the disease has been thus removed, some authors recommend the application of actual cautery, in the belief of its more effectually prevent- ing the recurrence of the disease. Nitric acid, applied pure to the part, has also been used. The disease will sometimes re-appear after its removal, and require a second opera- tion ; but, generally speaking, in cases of simple exostosis, one operation, if properly performed, will be found quite sufficient to effect permanent cure. Another mode of treating this disease consists in laying bare the whole of the tumour, and stripping off its peri- osteum, thus depriving the external part of its support from the periosteal vessels, and caus- ing the surface and subjacent parts to slough aw'ay. This plan of treatment is applicable to those cases only where the tumour is small, and the base of it broad ; it will answer in some instances extremely well, but is a mode of procedure which will only be had recourse to when an amputation of the exostosis is rendered dangerous or impracticable. The cure in these cases is necessarily rendered tedious. (John Morgan.) EXTENSION (from extendere, Lat. ; Ausdeknung, Ger.) In surgery, extension is employed to reduce a luxated limb, or to effect the coaptation of the ends of fractured bones. It is the opposite of counter-exten- sion, which is applied to the fixation of the trunk or socket, to which the articular head of a bone is to be restored, or to its firm retraction in a direction opposite to that in which the extension is being effected. Ex- tension is made with the hands, or by means of straps, or ropes and pulleys. See Luxa- tion, and Fracture.