115 EMPYEMA. that it has in his hands succeeded admirably well. A proposal has been made to puncture the i chest under water, in order to prevent the oc- currence of pneumothorax. We are not aware that the suggestion has been put in practice. The medical journals have recently contained the account of a new plan by M. Reybard, devised with the same view. “ A membran- ous tube, formed of a portion of intestine of a I goose, is applied by one of its extremities at the spot selected for puncture by means of a pellet of diachylon, and communicating by the other with a pig’s bladder, the fundus of which gives passage to a trochar, the opening being closed by a ligature. The bladder being- folded along the trochar, and the membranous tube firmly supported by the left hand, the trochar is directed along the latter puncture, , made in the usual manner, and the trochar i withdrawn. Pus runs into the bladder, and gradually distends it. When it ceases to flow, the canula is withdrawn, and a ligature applied to the membranous tube, which is cut beyond | this point; and the operation is completed by squeezing the diachylon over the wound We have said, that it would be well to pre- vent the ingress of air into the pleural cavity, I if possible ; and this because the existence of i pneumothorax must interfere with the expan- | sion of the lung; and the contact of air with | the diseased surface is likely to entail increase of inflammation and decomposition of the fluid retained or re-secreted by the pleura3. Never- theless, the prevention of pneumothorax does not by any means appear to be a matter of such importance as considerations of this kind I might lead us to expect. In numerous in- stances, when the physical signs of pneumo- { thorax were distinctly detected after the i operation, recovery has ensued. Laennec appears to us, as already stated, to have correctly pointed out the description of cases in which it maybe advisable to evacuate j the contents of the chest, by degrees, and upon | successive occasions. Under other circum- | stances, experience shows that no apprehen- - sion need be entertained of ill effects following j complete evacuation. The practice of those j who operate in this way, indeed, appears to | be the more successful; although some writers I affirm the contrary. Baron Larrey, whose I operations appear to have been crowned with more than an average share of success, (some of them, however, were performed in cases of haemothorax,) insists forcibly on the impor- 1 British and Foreign Medical Review, vol. xii. I p. 251. 1841. 3 Experiments upon animals seem to show that the admission of air into the pleura is unattended with danger, provided it be not repeated more than once. M. Barthelemy has also found, that blood injected into the chest of horses is rapidly absorbed ; and that the animal recovers, if the opening used for the injec- I tion be closed immediately,—if this he left open, the I result is of exactly the opposite kind.—Vide Bullet, de l’Acad. de Medecine, t. i. p. 165. The result in the latter instance occurs under circumstances some- what analogous to those existing in cases of empyema. tance of thoroughly emptying the pleural sac at once, and ascribes the frequent failure of the operation to the pursuance of an opposite conduct. Cruveilhier1 * pronounces himself emphatically against repeated openings and gradual evacuation. Heyfelder, whose prac- tice has been particularly successful, removes the whole of the liquid at once ; and the periodical journals contain numerous cases of recovery, in which this plan had been fol- lowed. Nevertheless, other observers of emi- nence—for instance, Dr. Williams—warmly defend the plan of gradual and successive evacuation : a circumstance very clearly prov- ing the difficulty of arriving at a perfectly satisfactory conclusion on the point3. Specu- lative reasons may and have been, by various persons, adduced in numbers in favour of each mode of evacuation : the important point to remember is, that experience speaks as stated above. It may be well to observe, however, fhat the advocates of successive evacuations are at the same time energetic in their state- ments of the ill effects of pneumothorax : how they reconcile to themselves the recommend- ation of a mode of operating which doubles, trebles, quadruples, or even still further in- creases the chances of the entry of air, does not very clearly appear. The proposal to ensure the removal of the entire collection of fluid, by drawing off with a syringe any portion of it which gravitates below the opening, is as old as Scultetus. Mr. Jowett and others have proposed modifica- tions of the syringe employed by that surgeon. There does not appear to be any reasonable objection to the employment of these instru- ments, if they be dexterously introduced and managed; and they may, in some cases, be decidedly useful. Laennec proposed the use of a cupping glass and exhausting syringe, with the view of drawing off the remains of the fluid, and facilitating the expansion of the lung. Whether the plan has ever been put in execution, we are not aware: as far as an opinion can be formed of its probable results, it seems to us that the removal of the fluid might be thus effected, (indeed this is rendered 1 Bull, de l’Acad. loc. citand. 2 Dr. Corrigan (Dublin Journal of Medical Science, vol. xvi. p. 342, 1840) adduces an argument of a novel kind, in favour of slow evacuation, founded on the following case. A man underwent the operation for empyema, the whole of the fluid being discharged at once by a large opening. Two or three hours after- wards he died with the symptoms of internal haemor- rhage. The pleural sac was, in truth, found filled with blood ; and as Dr. Corrigan detected no wound of any important vessel, he ascribes the occurrence to the rupture of minute pleural and pulmonary vessels from the aspiration arising in the pleura, in consequence of “ the lung being incapable of expanding, and filling the cavity of the chest from its carnified state and the adhesions it bad contracted.” Why the pleural aspira- tion should in this particular instance have ruptured “ the vessels of the lung and pleura,” rather than in the usual way drawn atmospheric air into the chest, is not stated by Dr. Corrigan ; and the question, there- fore, naturally arises, whether it is more likely that such a very unusual occurrence really took place, or that Dr Corrigan overlooked a wounded trunk. I 2