686 CANCER. sent, the result of extirpation must, in the language of Dr. Brig-ht, be “ useless agony to the patient, and deep mortification to the operator.” (c.) Fallopian Tubes.—The Fallopian tubes are sometimes involved in carcinoma, spreading from the uterus. Boivin and Duges have never seen them primarily affected ; Dr. R. Lee, however, affirms that the disease may originate in this situation. (d.) Vagina.—The deep-seated portion of the vagina is, in rare instances, found to be the seat of cancerous disease, independently of extension from the uterus or rectum. Mr. Ferrall1 recently exhibited a specimen of cancer, apparently of this kind, to the Patho- logical Society of Dublin. The vagina was the chief seat of ulceration, the uterus being healthy with the exception of the os tincae, to which the ulcerative process had extended ; continuous with the cancerous surface was a large encephaloid tumour, which penetrated the roof of the vagina and entered the bladder, forming a large fungous mass in its interior. The patient died of exhaustion from repeated vaginal haemorrhage. (e.) Clitoris and Nympho.—These ap- pendages may become the seat of cancer either primarily; by continuity with deeply-seated parts ; or consecutively to the development of carcinoma of the uterus. Boivin and Duges relate the case of a female, aetat. 34, in whom “ the clitoris, of the size of the little finger, had acquired this volume from the serous in- filtration of its external investment; its proper tissue was scirrhous.” Mr. Travers has also “ known the clitoris the subject of scirrhous ulceration, and freely amputated.”—Schoen- feld2 removed the clitoris and nymphae, form- ing a tumour weighing three ounces ; the mass was not of fibrous texture, but formed of a whitish substance, smooth, of almost cartilagi- nous hardness, and traversed by a multitude of capillaries visible under a lens. This was probably firm encephaloid. A tumour, con- sisting of a white softish clustered mass, as large as the clenched hand, was once found by Boivin and Duges suspended to the clitoris and nymphae, by a pedicle of the dimensions of the little finger. After death its component lobules were ascertained to possess the appear- ance and consistence of encephaloid. One of the most remarkable cases of this kind on re- cord is described by Mr. Brayne 3. The tu- mour in this instance weighed in situ (as nearly as could be ascertained) eleven pounds ; and its external appearance, the frequent and vio- lent haemorrhages and lancinating pains of which it was the seat, as well as the general course of the symptoms to which it gave rise, leave little doubt as to its carcinomatous na- ture, though, as the narrative does not extend to the patient’s death, we are unaware of the 1 Dub. Journal, p. 335. Nov. 1839. 2 L’ Experience, Sept. 5, 1838. 3 Prov. Med. & Surg. Trans, vol. iv. p. 369. 1839. precise characters of its component tissue. A very interesting example of carcinoma of the external genitals, which coexisted with preg- nancy and wdth cancerous products in nume- rous other parts, has been related by Dr. Ash- well. Premature artificial labour was brought on in this case’. Excision of the diseased parts should be performed as early as possible. The dissec- tion may, if necessary, be pursued as far as the insertion of the corpora cavernosa into the rami of the ischia. (f.) Labia and Vulva.—Dr. Stedman 2 de- scribes a tumour which had been growing for five years in the right labium of a woman of colour, was the seat of stinging pain and ul- ceration, and discharged a very foetid matter. The patient was a good deal reduced. The growth was, on removal, ascertained to weigh twelve ounces and a half, and “to exhibit the true scirrhous character or section.” The skin of the vulva sometimes gives origin to cancerous excrescences, which run the same course as in other parts of the surface. In certain cases scirrhous infiltration of the skin is so trifling in extent that the disease appears to commence by ulceration. In this case, as Mr. Heming remarks, it is with difficulty dis- tinguished from a venereal sore. “ The chief diagnostic symptoms,” says this practitioner, “ may perhaps be found in the general affection of the surrounding sebaceous glands, giving the skin an appearance as if studded with tu- bercles, about the size of split peas.” Inocu- lation of the secreted fluids might probably settle the question. In a case of this kind ob- served by Mr. Heming, “the carcinomatous affection had extended up the vagina to about two-thirds of its length ; the uterus and ova- ria were not at all affected ; the liver had in its substance, particularly towards its surface, about twenty small tumours of a carcinomatous appearance, and both kidneys were affected with the same disease3.” The excision of the diseased parts is usually an operation of extreme simplicity, and, ac- cording to Begin, the greater portion of the external genitals has been removed without entailing serious inconvenience or obstruction of function. But the presence of an intricate and extensive vascular plexus under the vagina', surface renders it a difficult matter in some cases to stop the haemorrhage which follows : plugging the vagina with lint steeped in some styptic solution, and covering the external parts with compresses similarly imbibed—the whole being retained in situ with a T bandage —isthe best mode of arresting it. The bladder should be regularly emptied with the catheter for some time. Di. Stedman encompassed the tumour above referred to with two semilunar incisions, and 1 Guy’s IIosp. Rep. vol. ii. p. 247. ! S'1' & Sllrg- J<>urn. vol. xxxvii. p. 25. - translation of Boivin and Duges on Diseases of the Uterus, p. 544. Lond. 1834.