ANKYLOGLOSSUM. 304 such as raising the eyelids by the introduc- tion of loops of suture, or by the insertion between them of pieces of sheet-lead, gold- beater’s skin, &c.; but these measures are too irritating. Some surgeons keep the eyelids asunder by means of strips of adhesive plas- ter ; others touch the margins with nitrate of silver. Rosas recommends the operation to be performed after a long sleep, in order that the patient may be kept awake twenty-four hours; but this recommendation does not deserve serious consideration. He also in- troduces between the eyelids a plate of wax formed to the shape of an artificial eye, and moistened with oil of almonds ; but this pre- caution also will be unnecessary, if we fre- quently open the eyelids, and take care to prevent adhesive inflammation by fomenta- tions of tepid water with acetate of lead, or by ablutions of cold water. The use of the unguent, plunibi et zinci may afterwards be required, should suppurative inflammation supervene. Bibliography Barcheudtz, De puero XII anno- rnm Ancyloblepharo laborante curato; Jenae, 1764. Acrel Olof Chirurgiska hacndelser. Stockholm, 1775. Pellier de Quengsy, Maladies dc l’CEil, in Benj. Bell's System of Surgery. Percy, Memoires sur les Ciseaux. Paris, 17B5—8. Badendyk, De Ancyloblepharo. Jenai, 1785. Riclierand, Nosographie Chirurgicale. Paris, 1828. Beer, Lehre d. Augenkrankheiten. Wien, 1818. Ammon's Treatise on Ankyloblepharon and Symblepharon. Middtemnre, A Treatise on the Diseases of the Eye and its Appendages. 2 vols. London, 1835. Diet, de Med. et Cbir. Prat. Arts. Ankyloblepharon et Symblepharon. (P. T. Dieffenbach.') ANKYLOGLOSSUM : (from nyxuXj;, 4 band,’ and yXweaa, ‘ the tongue ;’) Any ab- normal adhesion, whether congenital or ac- cidental, of the tongue with the adjacent parts. From this definition, it is obvious that there are various degrees of this affection, all interfering more or less, according to their extent, with the proper functions of the tongue, in sucking, talking, or swallowing. A very common form of the tongue-tie consists in a prolongation of the frenum from the base to the tip of the tongue, while its extent from below upwards i3 too short to allow the tongue to be carried forwards. The tongue-tie is assumed by mothers and nurses to be of frequent occurrence ; such, however, is not the case. Whenever there is ground to suspect that this malformation ex- ists in new-born children, it will be proper to institute a careful examination ; and this will be best done by closing the nostrils, and forcing the child to open the mouth and cry. If the tongue cannot ascend to the palate, as it ought to do in sucking, but remains im- moveable behind the lower jaw, the impedi- ment to the function depends on the condi- tion of the frenum. If now the tongue be raised by the fingers or a slit spatula (an instrument long in use for this purpose) the nature of the case becomes apparent at once. If, on introducing the finger into the child’s mouth, the tongue is found to encircle it firmly like a channel, and to advance over the gums in order to exercise the act of suction, the condition of the frenum forms no obstacle to the child’s sucking, and under these cir- cumstances if the infant refuses, or is unable to hold the nipple, it will in all likelihood de- pend on weakness or disease in the child, or on the size or form of the nipples of the mother. Accidental adhesions may occur in various parts of the mouth, presenting themselves in the form of bands, or membraniform expan sions, in consequence of mercurial ulcers, or violent salivation, during which, from the tongue being greatly swollen, and in close contact with the surrounding parts, the forma- tion of these adhesions to the gums and sur- face of the mouth is greatly facilitated. In- stances have been observed, where the whole of the inferior surface of the tongue was found adherent to the corresponding surface of the mouth. These adhesions are observed to arise in the cicatrization of wounds, burns, &c. Although in most cases this malformation can only be removed by an operation, it can- not be denied that it has too often been re- sorted to without the shadow of a necessity for it. Little better than a century back, the midwives were in the habit of cutting the frenum indiscriminately in all new-born child- ren, and in Italy and Germany, they used to allow the nail of the little finger to grow long, in order to make use of it for this little opera- tion which had become so common as to be in some respect merely conventional. If the infant is able to suck, notwithstanding the tongue-tie, the operation is unnecessary; should the malformation prevent talking when the child has attained its second or third year, it will be time enough to undertake an opera- tion for its removal. The operation itself, at whatever period it is performed, is extremely simple. The child, after being fed, is placed in the lap of an assist- ant, who takes care to hold the head immove- able. The surgeon introduces the fore and middle finger of the left hand, so as to receive the frenum between them, or he uplifts the tongue with Petit’s slit spatula, and receives it in the slit ; a blunt pointed pair of scissors divides the frenum, in a direction not up- wards towards the tongue, but downwards and slantingly, in order to avoid dividing the ranine artery. This is the chief point of im- ortance connected with the operation. Fatal aemorrhage has been known to follow the division of these small vessels, and the dan- ger is the greater as the flow of blood may go on unpcrceived. The movements of degluti- tion, which the child makes to swallow the blood poured into the mouth exercise the action of a pump on the divided vessel, and the blood accumulating in the stomach, nutri- tion is prevented. Some surgeons employ the scissors only to nick the edge of the fre-