40 EAR, AND HEARING, DISEASES OF. Monday, 6th.—Right car, four feet eight inches ; left car, four feet seven inches. Right ear treated. Tuesday, 7th.—Hearing of both ears the same as yesterday. Air-douche only applied to the left side, after which the hearing distance was four feet eleven inches. Friday, 10th.—Right ear, four feet and a half; left ear, four feet nine inches. Nostrils too tender to admit of the intro- duction of the catheter. Is going to the country for a wreek. To in- termit all medicines during that time. Monday, 20th May.— Hearing distance of both ears much the same as at last report. Right ear treated. Tuesday, 21st.—Right ear, four feet; left ear, four feet seven inches. Nostrils too tender to allow the passage of the catheter. Wednesday, 22nd.— Hearing much the same as yesterday. No noises in either ear. Nostrils still tender. Thursday, 23rd.—Hearing still the same as yesterday. Tuesday, 28th.—The watch is heard at the distance of four feet, but hearing is very dull for conversation. Tonsils improved, but nostrils still too ten- der to allow the passage of the catheter with- out some pain. Auditory passages pretty well. In consultation again with Sir James Clark, it was agreed to intermit the use of the ethe- real vapours, and to subject the patient to the following treatment. 1. Six leeches behind and below the ear on one side, and two days after, the same number to the opposite side. 2. A blister to the nape of the neck, kept open with savine ointment. 3. Three grains of mercurial chalk com- bined with extract of comum every night; and a draught of Pulnau water every second morning. Wednesday, 5th June.—Is going on with his medicines. Hearing distance by the watch, of right ear, three feet seven inches; left ear, three feet nine inches. Takes part in conversation rather better. Wednesday, 12th.—Hearing the same by the watch, but continuing better for conver- sation. Monday, 1st July.— Hearing continues much the same. Some noise in the ears. Local treatment resumed. Right ear treated with the vapours of ether; the perviousness of the Eustachian tube being previously ascertained by blowing through the catheter with the mouth simply. Tuesday, 2nd.—Hearing much the same as yesterday. Left ear treated. Wednesday, 3rd.—Hearing distance of both sides about three feet and a quarter. Nostrils too tender to admit the passage of the catheter. Saturday, 6th.—Nostrils still tender. To apply a leech to each nostril. Monday, 8th.—The leeches have been ap- plied. Tuesday, 9th.—Introduced a catheter into the right Eustachian tube, and injected ethe- real vapours, very gently, for about ten mi- nutes. Wednesday, 10th.—Right ear, four feet; left ear, three feet nine inches. Treated the left ear with the ethereal vapours. Thursday, 11th.—Right ear treated. Saturday, 13th.—Left ear treated. Monday, 15th.—Right ear treated. Tuesday, 16th.—Hearing continues much the same according to the watch, but the abi- lity to take part in conversation evidently much improved. Left nostril too tender to admit the ca- theter. Right ear treated. Wednesday, 17th.—Hearing distance of both sides by the watch about four feet. Left ear treated. Thursday, 18th.—Hearing the same by the watch. Right ear treated. Tuesday, 23rd.— Hearing distance of both ears by the watch about four feet nine inches. As the hearing according to the watch shows no disposition to farther improvement, I think it unadvisable to continue the treat- ment. The susceptibility to the human voice has, however, increased so much that the pa- tient carries on conversation without any dif- ficulty. Dismissed, relieved. The pathology of the ear not being suffi- ciently known, a direct diagnosis cannot be drawn from the history of the cases above detailed. It can only be said, per exclusionevi, that the proximate cause of the deafness did not lie in the external parts of the ear, nor solely in the Eustachian tubes, nor in accu- mulation of mucus in the tympanic cavities. Was it owing to thickening or other change in the texture of the membrane lining the tympanic cavities, and consequently of the membranes closing the fenestrae ? or was it owing to some change in the labyrinth in ge- neral ? or to affection of the auditory nerves in particular ? It would be of the greatest importance if these questions could be satisfactorily an- swered, because the state of the ears under consideration appears to be, more or less, that of a large proportion of habitually deaf per- sons, and because we should then be more likely to ascertain the signs diagnostical of its commencement, and thus be able to adopt early and probably efficient treatment, in- stead of, as at present, either doing nothing, or doing what we do inefficiently, or as is sometimes the case, prejudicially to the gene- ral health. An origin in a slow inflammatory action is scarcely to be doubted in many such cases of deafness.