377 ARSENIC. native, and is procured abundantly during the extraction of other metals from their ores, more particularly cobalt. This ore is thrown into a furnace to which a flue or horizontal chimney is attached, through which, during an exposure to heat, the fumes pass, and are con- densed into a greyish or blackish powder. It is afterwards purified and consolidated by sublimation in large iron mattrasses. It is then brought into the drug market under the appellation of white arsenic, in large colour- less inodorous masses, which are generally opaque ; when recently broken their internal structure presents a vitreous appearance. It is volatilized at the temperature of 383° F., and emits a smell somewhat resembling that of garlic; but when carefully heated, far from the contact of any substance that can decompose it, this alliaceous smell, which has been by some regarded as a test, is not perceptible. Its specific gravity is 3'7. Its taste is strikingly nauseous; it creates a singularly astringent sensation about the mouth and fauces, and excites a flow of saliva and a painful sense of constriction. It has been called arsenious acid very properly, for it unites with potash, ammonia, and soda, forming soluble com- pounds ; one of these, the arsenite of pot- ash, is introduced into our pharmacopoeias under the name of liquor potass* arsenitis, or Fowler’s mineral solution. This has gained great reputation in the cure of diseases of an intermittent type. The French Directory, during the march of the French army through the marshy plains of Lombardy, issued a de- cree commanding the surgeons, under pain of military punishment, to employ a similar preparation of this mineral for the soldiers who were suffering from intermittent fever, produced by malaria. Arsenic has long been employed in the treatment of cancer, and has at different times been highly extolled, and at others as much depreciated; it has formed the basis of almost all the quack remedies which have claimed any reputation in the cure of the disease, and various articles have been employed to disguise it from the patient. Fuchsius united it with soot and serpentary, and Richard Guy, with sulphur, hog’s fennel, and soot. Its topical employment is chiefly indicated in cases of cutaneous cancer ; and it should be steadily repeated till every trace of the disease be removed. In proportion to the degree of inflammation excited is the chance of its absorption diminished, and the risk of deleterious consequences precluded. Messrs. Sachs and Dulk assert, that its erosive power is greater than that of any other known remedial agent, with the ex- ception of fire ; and that of all potential cau- teries, it most efficiently obviates the absorption ol the morbid virus. They also mention their having known numerous instances of a perfect and lasting cure having been wrought by its means in cancers of the skin. Failure was to be attributed to its untimely application'. * Hamlworterbuch dor I’raktischen Arzneimittcl- lclirc, Part 1. p. 475. It is only as a caustic that arsenic acts bene- ficially in such cases ; since there is no good evidence of its internal administration having proved serviceable. Mr Carmichael has promulgated some pe- culiar notions on this head, in his work on Cancer, to which we must refer our reader. It must always be remembered, that the utmost danger from absorption of the poi- son into the system attends the external application, and that the powder sprin- kled upon the sore often produces intense pain, without exciting any other remarkable symptom, whilst, again, on other occasions violent inflammation and local irritation have suddenly supervened. Roux narrates the case of a young girl aged eighteen, who died in consequence of the application of the pate arsenicale to a cancerous breast: it has been found, from experiment, that inflammation is produced in the stomach of the dog, not only more violently, but more rapidly by the ap- plication of arsenic to a wound, than where it was given internally, every precaution having been previously taken that no delusion should arise from the animal being suffered to lick the denuded surface. In hospital gangrene, the solution of arsenic is found most valuable. Mr. Blackadder, during the Peninsular war, employed it at Passages with the happiest effect, and Hen- nen, in his Principles of Military Surgery, gives a long description of the plan that was followed : — The first step is to make the sore perfectly clean, and freed from the vis- cous discharge ; but as this cannot be easily effected by common means, without occasion- ing a disagreeable oozing of blood or a con- siderable degree of pain, the ablution is made from two large hospital teapots, one contain- ing a hot solution of the subcarbonate of soda, the other a cold one, that the one or the other may be employed as the feelings of the pa- tient for the moment dictate ; the glutinous matter which adheres to the sore may be gently detached by means of small dossils of lint: sponges are to be avoided, in conse- quence of the expense, for the dread of con- tagion must prevent their being employed more than once : dry lint may be spread on the surface of the sore, as soon as it is per- fectly clean, and removed, and fresh lint ap- plied until the sore is perfectly dry. The solution of arsenite of potash, diluted with an equal part of water, is then applied through the means of pieces of lint, which are to be well soaked, and renewed every fifteen mi- nutes or half an hour ; sometimes on the first application it is necessary, particularly in irri- table or debilitated constitutions, to administer an opiate, and to repeat it according to cir- cumstances. The use of the solution is to be continued until an insensible dark-coloured and dry slough occupies the whole surface of the sore, and until the patient is completely relieved from the burning and lancinating- pain, which is in some degree characteristic of the disease. These cases require great per- sonal attention on the part of the surgeon, as