ANEURISM. Pare, speaking of an aneurism near the shoulder-joint, which had been imprudently opened by a barber, gives the following ad- vice : “ Partant je conseille au jeune chirur- gien, qu’il se garde d’ouvrir les aneurismes, si elles ne sont fort petites, et en parties non dangereuses, coupant le cuir au dessus, le se- parant de 1’artere ; puis on passera une es- guille a seton, enfilee d’un fort fil, par sous l’artere aux deux costes de la plaie, laissant tomber le filet de soy-meme, et ce faisant, na- ture engendre chair qui sera cause de bou- cher 1’artere1.” Guillemeau, a pupil of Pare, gives an ac- count, in the following words, of the opera- tion he performed on the son of M. Belleville : “ Auquel apres une saignee faite au ply du bras, lui etait survenu un petit aneurisme, qui par succession de temps etait accru de la grosseur du poing, auquel enfin le sang con- tenu en iceluy se grournela ; ce qui fut cause d’engendrer quelque commencement de pour- riturc en ladite tumeur, comme il s’aper^ut par le cuir qui avait change sa nai'fve couleur en noirceur et lividite, estant meme altere et ouvert; pour a quoi obvier et au grand flux de sang prineipalement qui s’cn pourrait suivre, avec deperdition d’esprits, si l’ouver- turc se fesait plus ample, je proposal aux mede- cins et aux chirurgiens le seul remede pour obvier a ce mal, qui etait de Her 1’artere plus haut que l’aneurisme qui etait au ply du bras, ii laquelle opinion enfin chacun s’accorda. Premierement je remarquai sur le cuir l’ar- tere en la superieure et interieure partie de l’avant-bras, ainsi qu’elle descend de l’aisselle au ply du bras, trois doigts au dessus d’icelui; et en cette meme partie suivant ce que j’avais remarque, je fis une legere incision en long au cuir, qui etait comme separe a l’endroit de l’artere ou elle se rencontre au toucher, et l’ayant ainsi decouverte, passai par dessous avec une grosse esguille courbe une petite fisselle desliee, puis avec icelle fisselle je liai ladite artere a double nceud. Cela fait, tout le sang groumele et autre caille contenu en la tumeur fut ote, puis les parois de la tumeur furent lavees avec eau-de-vie ii laquelle j’avais fait dissoudre un peu d’Egyptiac pour corriger la pourriture, ja commencee en cette partie ; un mois apres le malade fut parfaitement gueri sans etre aucunement estropie ; de quoi j’ai ete infiniment esmerveille.” The operation which Anel performed a century later, differed from Guillemeau’s only in regard to the sac being left untouched ; but in both, the ligature was placed on the vessel just above the sac, and it appears that Guillemeau did not by any means consider the emptying of the sac as an essential step of his operation, since he adds to his descrip- tion of it, “ Si en quelque autre partie exte- rieure il se prcsente au chirurgien pareil aneurisme, il peut siirement decouvrir le corps de l’artere vers sa racine et partie superieure et la Her de meme fafon sans autre ceremonie2.” 1 A. Pare, liv. vii. c. 34. De PAneurisme. 2 Guillemeau, p. 699. voi.. i. Now, on neither of these occasions was the principle involved in the Hunterian operation as much as hinted at. The surgeons of the 17th and 18th centuries did not possess that knowledge of the diseases of arteries, which might have led to the adoption of so impor- tant an improvement as that with which the name of Hunter is irrevocably identified. Nay, the case operated upon by Dessault in 1785, cannot even be quoted as an illustra- tion of the principle, for Dessault operated on the popliteal artery, just above the tumour, as did Guillemeau and Anel on the brachial artery. Hunter tied the femoral artery for popliteal aneurism. In so doing, his purpose was obvious : he was aware that the disease in the coats of the artery, upon which the forma- tion of the aneurismal tumour depended, often extended for some distance along the vessel, and he therefore placed his ligature at a dis- tance above the tumour, in order that it might bear upon a sound portion of the arterial trunk, well knowing that the contents of the aneurismal sac might be absorbed. The ques- tion therefore is not one of dates, but of facts, and the difference between the two modes of operating, which on one side have been gra- tuitously assumed to be identical, may be thus summed up : Anel’s operation, performed at the beginning of the 18th century, preceded Hunter’s by seventy years, led to no result, and was all but forgotten; Hunter’s led the way to some of the most brilliant achieve- ments of surgery, and changed the whole practice of our art in regard to this particular class of diseases. In the thigh, as in other situations, aneur- isms have been known to undergo the spon- taneous cure, the tumour either inflaming and suppurating, or the sac becoming converted into a fibrous knot, without any apparent in- flammatory symptoms. Instances might be collected, in which these favourable termina- tions of spontaneous aneurisms have been ob- served to take place, either with or without local treatment, such as the application of ice, evaporating or astringent lotions, leeches, &c. Even wounds of the femoral artery have been known to undergo the same process of cure. Larrey speaks of a serjeant of the guard, who, in 1817, had a sword wound in the upper part of the right thigh ; a circumscribed false aneurism was the consequence ; he was how- ever, soon cured by Valsalva’s treatment com- bined with cold local applications. Compression has also been employed, with now and then a favourable result. Guattani succeeded in obliterating the femoral artery, by keeping up pressure upon it against the branch of the pubis. Brasdor’s method has also been employed on the femoral artery in inguinal, or rather iliac aneurism, but without success. In whatever part of its course the femoral artery may be tied, the collateral circulation unless it shall have been extensively obliter- ated, will be found sufficient for the nourish- ment of the limb. In some cases even the T