406 GANGRENE, HOSPITAL. those cases in which it is acknowledged to have afforded temporary relief, its beneficial effects would have been more strikingly obvious. Where the patient or patients affected with hospital gangrene are of less robust constitu- tion, have lingered long in hospital, or suffered much from ill-health, or from hard labour and want of nourishment, blood-letting is either altogether inadmissible, or should be used very sparingly. If a case of hospital gangrene docs not, in its early stage, require or admit of the use of blood-letting, the practitioner may next be disposed to inquire how far nature needs as- sistance in the way of stimulus, and particu- larly of the administration of wine. The use of wine, in the early stage of hos- pital gangrene, can only be justifiable in the event of the symptoms assuming from the commencement of the disease a highly as- thenic character. “ In administering this re- medy,” says Dr. Thomson, “ we must wait for an abatement of the fever. We must give it at first in small quantities, to be increased gradually, according to the effects which it seems to produce ; and we must be careful to discontinue it immediately, wherever we can perceive from it any aggravation of the gene- ral or local symptoms of the disease. The wine,” adds this author, “ may be changed for ale, porter, or even spirits, according to the wishes of the patient, or according to the cir- cumstances in which the malady first ap- peared.” “ Wine was allowed to some of the patients,” says Dr. Adam, “but not generally. Its tendency, like opium, appeared to be hurt- ful, by aggravating the excitement; while it neither conduced to sleep, nor effected any change whatever in the state of the local disease.” (p. 146.) Dr. Boggie has expressed, in very strong terms, his conviction of much injury having arisen at Bilbao from an injudi- cious use of wine ; but he candidly admits, that although the use of this and other stimulants, in the early stage of hospital gangrene, while there is great vascular action, as well as much local inflammation, cannot be too highly re- probated, yet there are states of this disease in which it will be found not only not inju- rious, but very beneficial; such, for example, as the advanced stages of hospital gangrene, which occur in poor old infirm people ; or when the patients have lingered long in hos- pitals, and their health has been broken by previous disease, or where the fever is evi- dently, from the first, of a typhoid character. The use of emetics, in the commencement of the constitutional attack, was recommended by Pouteau and Dussassois ; and the same mode of practice seems to have been followed with advantage by several surgeons in the British navy. Mr. Briggs says, “ I have always found emetics more effectual than any other evacuants. I have often seen emetics administered at the commencement of the dis- ease, and when used sufficiently early, always, as I conceived, with advantage.” “ They un- load the stomach,” says Dr. Thomson, “ of matter which may be long in being digested ; or which, as it happens to partake of a vege- table or animal nature, may be disposed to become acescent or putrid. By unloading the stomach they diminish the sickness with which the febrile attack of this gangrene is often ushered in ; and they tend powerfully to promote perspiration. I do not remember ever to have seen an emetic given in this dis- ease occasion any mischief; so that, judging from the benefit that I have seen emetics produce, I am inclined to think that they ought never to be omitted in the commence- ment of the disease.” Dr. Boggie considers the cases to which emetics are chiefly appli- cable, to be those where the stomach is loaded, and where the fever appears of a bilious cha- racter. Emetics in nauseating doses were often tried, in such instances, in the Bilbao epidemic, and were considered useful, both by their operation as evacuants, and by the nau- sea, which they excited, lowering the action of the vascular system. In the same cases, he adds, antimonials and saline diaphoretics will be found very useful. With these statements of practical observers recording the results of their own experience, it is amusing to con- trast the dark picture which M. Begin, as a follower of the doctrine of gastro-enterite, has drawn of the injurious consequences that must inevitably (according to the Broussaian theory) result from the administration of eme- tics in hospital gangrene'. In the commencement of an attack of hos- pital gangrene, assistance may be derived in diminishing the amount of fever, from the ad- ministration of laxative, purgative, or cathartic medicines. Dr. Boggie, regarding cathartics as the remedies, next to blood-letting, the best calculated for lessening arterial action in in- flammatory diseases, considers the use of them to be indicated in cases of hospital gangrene, where that remedy is inadmissible, or, at least, not so much required. These cases, he observes, are of a doubtful nature, — where general inflammatory action exists to a certain degree, but where, from the long confinement of the patient, or his previous state of ill-health, venesection cannot with safety be employed, or where the fever is evidently typhoid. In this disease, as occurring among the poor in civil hospitals, Dr. B. expresses his belief that purgative medicines will be found, unless in very extraordinary cases, to be the most use- ful, indeed the safest evacuants. Different surgeons have professed a pre- ference for different purgative medicines in this disease. It has been supposed, that if, from the state of the tongue, or from the pre- valence of other complaints, there should be reason to suspect biliary derangement, calomel ought to be employed. Dussassois thought that he obtained, in his practice, great advan- tages from the use of cream of tartar, given at first to act as a purgative, and afterwards as a diuretic. It was useful, probably, from 1 See Diet, dc Med. et Cliir. Prat.