138 AMPUTATION. knife (which is to be handed to him by an assistant) as he would hold a sword , and grasping it firmly, he is to pass his hand and arm under the limb, so as to encircle it, and bring the edge of the knife fairly upon its an- terior region. Here he begins to cut, and by winding his arm round back again, he brings the edge of the knife with equal and moderate pressure over every point of the circumfer- enoe of the limb, and divides the skin and cellular tissue down to the fascia, by one com- plete circular incision, made to terminate exactly where it commenced. In this, and in all incisions made round a limb, the knife must not be depended upon to cut solely by pressure, or by motion in one direction, but by a sawing motion to and fro, communicated to it whenever necessary. Very little pressure is required, or ought to be made on the instrument; the degree neces- sary should be measured and appreciated by the depth of parts to be divided at the com- mencement of the incision which on that ac- count is to be begun slowly, and continued cautiously, the eye always preceding and di- recting the hand. When the entire circle cannot easily be gone over by one incision, it should be completed by a second, made by re-applying the knife, and drawing it in a con- trary direction, from the beginning to the termination of the first. Some surgeons al- ways make the circle in this way by two incisions; because, as they justly affirm, it can be made more easily, more safely, and per- haps more rapidly than by one. Immediately after the first incision, the skin, with its cellular tissue, is to be drawn up to the necessary extent, by the assistant aided by the operator who is to detach it from the aponeurosis with the end of his knife, or with a large probe-ended bistoury, and if much be required, to turn it back like the end of & sleeve2. Half an inch below the place to which the edge or fold of the skin has been drawn, the surgeon is to divide the fascia and all the mus- cles down to the bone, by an annular incision, made by one or two sweeps of the knife, in the same manner as that for dividing the in- teguments. This incision, although carried at once through all the muscles, is final only for the superficial layer. It is made through them all, in order to insure, beyond the pos- sibility of escape, the complete and equal division of those constituting this first layer, and which otherwise might not be all cut through ; because their thickness cannot be estimated beforehand, with exactness sufficient to indicate the degree of action of the knife necessary to divide them, and them only. It serves to divide, to a positive certainty, all the superficial muscles, and to distinguish them from the deep ones; which last, retracting 1 When the knife is held between the fingers and thumb, and not grasped in the hand, the surgeon has not the same, nor even sufficient power over it. 2 The origin of this practice of turning back the skin is attributed to Alanson. less, and requiring to be left shorter than the superficial layer, must be divided by another incision. The separation between the two layers is effected at once ; for, as soon as the incision is made, the muscles composing the first or superficial one retract, and leave the others, which retract less, projecting beyond them, and forming with the bone the central part of a cone, placed inversely to that which the stump itself ultimately represents. At the base of this cone, on a level with the retracted ends of the superficial layer of muscles, the operator must again apply the knife, and, by a third circle of incision, divide the deep ones. With a small knife he is now to detach from the periosteum the fibres immediately surrounding it, conformably to the excellent precept of Celsus : in fact, to dissect up to the extent of an inch, more or less, round the bone, which, when sawn through, will thus have its end covered and protected, even by these, and remain imbedded in them as before the operation. This is a very important part of the operation ; for if these fibres or the periosteum are detached further than the section can be made with the saw, the de- nuded end of the bone must exfoliate and dis- turb the cure. The retractor must be care- fully placed close under these fibres, so that the bone may be sawn through, up to the very highest which has been detached, and not left devoid of muscular attachment even to the extent of a hair’s breadth : as thus, and thus only, can we be sure of protecting it from all necrosis, as w'ell as of giving it the dis- position which will best conduce to the for- mation of a good cicatrix. The surgeon is to place the retractor so that the bone lies at the bottom of the slit which divides half its length into two straps. With these straps crossed in front of the bone, and the other half of the retractor placed posteriorly, an assistant is to support the soft parts and pro- tect them from the action of the saw. To cut through the bone, the surgeon is to place his thumb-nail fixedly on it, close against the retractor, and then adjusting the saw at its heel to his nail, which serves to guide it, to set in, or make a track by drawing it steadily backwards, with scarcely any other pressure than that of its own weight. He continues to saw by moving the instrument held lightly in his hand, perpendicularly to the axis of the limb, to and fro, in strokes al- ways steady and gentle, but becoming more so, and accompanied by less pressure, as he approaches the completion of the section ; so that there may be no danger of splintering the bone1. During this part of the operation, the assistant, who holds the parts to be re- 1 To use the saw well requires a good deal of prac- tice. Every surgeon should know that the ait of sawing docs not conre of itself, and can only he ac- quired hy practice. We say this the more earnestly, because it is somewhat rare to see an operator use the saw properly. Good joiners seldom or ever splinter the most delicate piece of wood; hut surgeons are