FRACTURE. 349 known to be often very rapid from the loose tissues about the shoulder. Acute pain, and sometimes the sudden jar or sound of fracture, is experienced at the moment of the accident. Sudden immobility of the limb ensues, but it yields in the freest mariner to every motion communicated to it; such, however, is attended with severe pain, and much mischief has occasionally resulted from undue surgical examination. With one hand grasping the head of the humerus, and with the other, or by the assist- ance of a second person, giving a rotatory motion to the shaft, the head of the humerus will be found to be motionless, and crepitus will be perceived, if not obscured by swelling. The motionless condition of the head of the bone, also, will be a distinctive mark of a fracture below it. It is the lower fragment chiefly that is found displaced, the upper being acted upon by few muscles. Sir A. Cooper considered that the upper portion sinks into the axilla, and that it may also be felt in this position. Thus he explained the loss of the roundness of the shoulder. The projection of the lower portion of the humerus inward, while the elbow is inclined from the side, and incapable of being brought near it without pain, is the most common form of displacement. When the shaft is thrown outwards, the elbow is turned in- wards. There is seldom much displacement in regard to length, unless the fracture be very oblique, in which case the muscles may contract and shorten the limb considerably. It is necessary to be aware, that the soft and fragile state of the head of the humerus in some aged persons, admits of its enduring considerable lesion short of complete fracture. Indentation, impaction of the head more or less deeply in the shaft, and in particular a yielding of the inferior part of the neck, form a little set of obscure injuries, that require the most careful application of the remedies for contusions or even fractures. A parallel to these injuries is found in certain lesions of the head of the femur *. Very little extension, judiciously used ac- cording to the direction the shaft has assumed, will suffice for the reduction. The muscles will effect coaptation, and the principal diffi- culty will be to preserve it. Desault continued the extension till the arm was secured in its intended position. A roller, wetted with the liq. plumbi diacet. dil., was first well applied from the hand to the shoulder; a narrow splint was then placed in front, from the bend of the arm to the acromion; another on the outside to the same point, from the condyle ; and a third behind, from the olecranon to the margin of the axilla; 1 Mr. Howship (Medico-Chir. Trans, vol. xix.) de- scribes the occurrence of fracture of the neck of the humerus, together with that of the cervix femoris, in the case of a female, set. 79, who fell on her side. After ten months he found in the arm elastic reunion, in the thigh a false joint. the rest of the roller (or another one) was then employed downwards, over the splints to the place it began from. A cushion, the length of the arm, three or four inches thick at one end, and tapering to a thin edge at the other, was then placed with its thick ex- tremity in the axilla, i. e., if the displacement was inwards, (to oppose the great pectoral and dorsal adductor?) but if outwards, which Desault found to be most frequently the case, the mass of cushion was placed between the elbow and the side, and the thin end in the axilla: it was then fastened in its place, and the arm was fixed upon it by a second roller, applied tightly below and loosely above, round the arm and body when the displacement was inwards ; but vice versa, the upper end of the shaft was tightly bandaged, to counterbalance the outward traction of the deltoid muscle, while the elbow, pressed outward by the pad, was only loosely confined in that position. A sling supported the hand, and the weight of the arm ; and the compression of muscles by the apparatus was considered sufficient to keep the shaft from being drawn upwards. Sir A. Cooper recommended that the arm should be only gently supported, lest the bones should overlap, and deformity ensue. He previously applied a roller from the elbow to the shoulder-joint, then an inner and outer splint, secured by another roller, and a cush- ion in the axilla, to throw out the head of the bone. Fractures of the lower part of the humerus are not infrequent. They may be either transverse or oblique, simple or complicated. The separation of the epiphysis in the young may rank with the first set. The most common of these fractures is the separation of the condyles from each other by a fissure, extending through the joint, and communicating above with an oblique or transverse fracture, thus dividing the humerus into three pieces. Fig. 319. Fig. 319. The inferior extremity of the humerus, show- ing the usual site of three different fractures, in the