ACUPUNCTURE. 47 Acupuncture has been very recently em- ployed with success in the cure of hydrocele. In this process, the needle is used instead of the trocar, and the palliative is converted into the radical cure. This new application of acupuncture originated with Mr. Lewis, and is described by Mr. T. King, in the first num- ber of the British Annals of Medicine, January, 1837'. A needle is passed through the skin, dartos, and cremaster, into the distended tunica vaginalis ; as soon as it is withdrawn, a drop of the fluid exudes, and shows itself, like a tear, on the integuments. “ The ap- pearance of a drop of the fluid,” says Mr. King, “ at the top of the little wound, is the test of the operation being well performed ; it shows that the bag is perforated, and that its contents can find their way out.” The needle, on being withdrawn should be ro- tated, as the success of the process depends upon the means afforded by the puncture, for the fluid being extravasated into the surrounding cellu- lar tissue. In the space of twenty-four or forty- eight hours, the whole of the fluid is thus transferred from the cavity of the tunica vagi- nalis into the cellular tissue, the extent of the infiltration of the scrotum being in proportion to the quantity contained in the natural sac. The fluid is absorbed in the course of four or five days, and a permanent cure is thus ef- fected. Upon the complete evacuation of the fluid, the tunica vaginalis is restored to its normal condition, and this is one of its advan- tages over the other modes of curing hydro- cele, by inducing adhesion between the oppo- site surfaces of this serous cavity. Mr. Lewis has found this mode of treatment successful in every case of hydrocele in which he employed it. Acupuncture, merely as a palliative pure for hydrocele, would doubtless be a very great improvement; but how much more valuable does it not become, when we find it a safe, easy, and almost painless mode of remedying this troublesome affection ? Some doubt may perhaps be entertained of its being sufficient to prevent the reaccumulation of the fluid in cases where the distension of the tunica vagi- nalis has been very considerable. But even should the fluid be again secreted, its evacua- tion, by successive punctures, will soon render the serous cavity so small, that success will be as easily attained as in a case of recent forma- tion. Acupuncture is advantageously employed in evacuating the serum in anasarcous limbs, and for this purpose is much to be preferred to the lancet, the punctures of which, when the habit is greatly debilitated, are liable to become sloughy; it answers well also in oedema of the scrotum, penis, eyelids, &c.; it has been employed with the same view in congenital hydrocephalus; it is also used sometimes in exploring the nature of deep- seated tumours, collections of pus, &c. Acupuncture, associated with electricity 1 Mr. Travers has been in the habit of treating hy- drocele for the last two or three years, both in hospi- tal and private practice, by a nearly similar process. He does not, however, state the result as invariably successful. (See Hydrocele.)—Ed. and galvanism, under the name of electro, or galvano-puncture, has also been employed by Berlioz and Sarlandiere : it merely consists in establishing a communication between the needles and the conductor of an electrical machine. M. Leroy d’Etiolles has proposed galvano-puncture in strangulated hernia; he hopes to reduce the intestine by inducing sud- den contraction of it in the hernial sac; his views are supported by the favourable results of some experiments on animals. M. Majen- die has also employed galvano-puncture in cases of complete and incomplete amaurosis; successfully in some of the latter. Various theories have been proposed to ex- plain the action of the needles. The Japanese believe that all diseases depend upon hurtful winds or vapours pent up in the organs of the body, and that acupuncture procures relief by giving them vent. Amongst scientific investi- gators, some suppose its effects to depend on derivation, others on some special influence, resembling the action of electricity. The nervous fluid has also been resorted to, to clear up the difficulty. Haime and Cloquet ima- gine that nervous pains depend on an accumu- lation of the nervous fluid in particular parts, and that the presence of the needles gives re- lief by equalizing its distribution. Dr. Bache adopts this opinion, and conjectures that the accumulation of the nervous (electrical ?) fluid is favoured by an altered state of the fasciae, whereby they are rendered capable of isolating the parts which they surround. No proof, however, is adduced that such is the fact. It is not difficult to explain the indifference that has been shown to the extensive adop- tion of acupuncture ; there is, in general, some disinclination manifested for the employment of a remedial agent, of which the action, or modus operandi, cannot be in some way con- nected, analogically, or otherwise, with that of the remedies which common use and universal experience have sanctioned. The effects of acupuncture are not deducible from counter- stimulation, for they are sometimes most re- markable when such stimulation has been scarcely felt,—nor from electrical agency, for they are equally produced when the needles employed are of gold or silver,—nor from moral agency, for they who deride the curative in- fluence of the needles are as much benefited by their application, provided their cases be suitable, as those who have the most unlimited confidence in their efficacy; the reasoning and incredulous European, being in this re- spect on a level with the all-believing and unlettered Chinese. And yet these effects are not only beyond all dispute, but in many instances are so prompt, so marked by cessation of pain, as to impress the vulgar mind with the idea of supernatural agency. The differences of opinion respecting the value of acupuncture are the very opposites of each other, and are entertained by two classes of practitioners : the one indifferent, deeming its importance so problematical, so improbable, that investigation of its merits would be a waste of time ; the other, enthusiastic, being satisfied from observation and experience, that