56 ADHESION. ascertain whether it presents itself. The gall-bladder may also adhere and communicate with the colon. In the left hypochondrium the spleen, un- der the influence of irritation, may contract adhesions with vicinal organs ; it is thus found united to the stomach, the diaphragm, &c., and collections of pus may find their way from it into the thorax, stomach, colon, the kidney, or through the parietes of the abdo- men. The stomach is not exempt from the lia- bility to contract adhesions ; and under cer- tain circumstances they may prolong or pre- serve life. In cancerous affections the perfo- ration of the stomach would often occur much earlier than it does, if it were not prevented by the adhesions which unite the walls of the stomach to those of the surrounding or- gans. The fistulous openings, by which the stomach is connected with the external ab- dominal wall, and through which physiolo- gists have been enabled to conduct some very interesting experiments on digestion, are es- tablished by means of adhesion, uniting the wounded organ to the wall of the abdomen. Adhesions occur also between different por- tions of the small intestines, and are some- times the effect of disease originating in the internal or mucous surface of the intestine. When this disease has proceeded to ulcera- tion the peritoneum covering the ulcerated intestine adheres to the intestine apposed to it, and an opening is thus made between the two portions, which renders the intermediate turns of intestine useless. In cases of stric- ture proceeding to obliteration of the alimen- tary canal, nature attempts to re-establish the continuity by setting up this wonderful pro- cess of conservation. It was found, on exam- ining the body of Talma, the celebrated tra- gedian, who died of obliteration of a part of the intestinal canal, that this process was nearly completed. In such cases, however, the communication is not always established between the upper and lower portions of intes- tines ; it sometimes takes place between the intestine and the bladder. The uterus and its appendages, in the dis- eases to which they are liable, may be glued together, or the uterus alone, in the malposi- tions of that organ, to the neighbouring or- gans, the rectum, and bladder. In cancer of the womb the adhesions preceding the altera- tions of the organ may effectually protect the peritoneum from any effusion of the morbid fluids, until it is in great part destroyed ; or these organic alterations may produce such a degree of pressure on the organs in the neigh- bourhood of the uterus, as to produce a sup- pression of their functions. A case of this kind came very recently under my own obser- vation. I was called at the request of the board to consult with my friend Mr. Bain- bridge on the case of a patient in St. Mar- tin’s workhouse, who had not made water for five days. On examining the body after death, the cause of the obstruction to the flow of urine was found to be a carcinoma- tous enlargement of the uterus and its appen- dages, producing by pressure a perfect occlu- sion of the ureters, which were very much distended with this fluid. The autopsy was performed by Professor Partridge, of King’s College. The preparation is in the Museum. The same disposition to adhesion is observa- ble in the ovaries and uterine tubes ; and M. Renauldin remarks that they are frequently found in women who lead a life of prostitution. The purulent cyst of an abscess of the me- sentery may extend towards the small intes- tine at its edge, and make way into its cavity ; in the case of tuberculous deposits in the ad- ventitious membranes, already mentioned, this communication between the mesentery and the intestine had been established. Adhesions of the peritoneum in consequence of wounds.—These adhesions take place with re- markable celerity. (See Abdomen, Wounds.) Instances are exhibited in the establishment of an artificial anus from strangulated hernia, where the surgeon is compelled, for his pa- tient’s safety, to leave the intestine unre- turned ; the adhesions by which it is secured in the lips of the wound are established in a few hours. It is upon this beneficent disposi- tion in the serous membrane to contract ad- hesion rapidly, that M. Jobert’s treatment of wounds, dividing the entire intestine, is esta- blished. This surgeon turned the cut edges of the lower intestine into the hollow of the gut itself by a sort of intus-susception, and then introducing the upper portion the two serous surfaces were made to correspond. Many experiments have been made with a view to the union of wounds of the intestines, all more or less directly founded on this pro- perty in the peritoneum. On this interesting point of surgical practice the labours of Mr. Travers deserve honourable mention1. M. Cruveilhier mentions a case of invagination of a foot of the intestine, in which the adhesions between the serous surfaces were so strong that the invaginated portion could not be drawn out. Adhesions of the peritoneum in consequence of hernia.—Adhesions and transformations of tis- sue occur in endless variety, and often very rapidly too, in the contents of a hernial sac, and between these and the sac itself; and it is on such adhesions, much more than on want of space in the abdomen for their reception, in protrusions of long standing, that their ir- reductibility depends. In such cases the im- possibility of cure arises from the adhesions : in newly-formed protrusions, on the contrary, when the intestines are fairly returned, all our hopes of obliterating the sac depends upon our success in inducing the adhesion of its sides. While the surgeon is mindful of this power in the serous membrane to produce new mat- ter, he will proceed with caution in his inci- sions to relieve an incarcerated intestine or 1 Travers, on Wounds of Intestines.