CANCER. 683 organs, and either in the scirrhous or en- cephaloid forms. In the article Penis the reader will find the operation of amputation described. Ligature of the diseased organ, practised by Ruysch and recommended by Heister and Courcelles, is a proceeding justly banished from modern surgery. Buret, Journ. Hebdom.t. i.p. 377. 1828. Linfmnc, Mem. sur lea Cancers superficiels qu’ on crojait pro- fonds; Gaz. Med. de Paris, p. 249. 1830. (b.) Prostate Gland.—True scirrhus is of singularly rare occurrence in the prostate. Mr. Travers has found the organ occupied by a small tumour, possessing all the characters of scirrhus ; and met with instances in which the stony hardness and enlargement of the gland, the bloody seminal discharge ; and the peculiar pains felt in the thighs and elsewhere, seemed to leave no doubt of its being the seat of that form of cancer. Sir B. Brodie relates two cases of presumed scirrhus of this organ. “ There was a constant and severe pain referred to the neck of the bladder, which was not relieved on the urine being drawn off. The urine deposited a considerable quantity of ad- hesive mucus, and was of an ammoniacal odour. [This is mere evidence of the existence of chronic cystitis.] The prostate was found on examination to be much enlarged, and of a stony hardness. The patient complained of excruciating pains in different parts of the body, which could be compared to nothing except the pains under which persons afflicted with carcinoma occasionally labour. He sub- sequently suddenly became hemiplegic, and died in a fortnight.” The last circumstance is exactly similar to what was observed in a case related from the same author, under the head of mammary cancer, and depended, as he con- jectures, on the same cause *. Mr. Langstaff1 2 has described an cnccphaloid tumour, as large as an orange, springing from the prostate, and chiefly from its “ third lobe it had occasioned absorption of as much of the mucous coat of the bladder, as allowed of its getting into the cavity of that organ, had extended laterally, and completely plugged up the orifices of both ureters : the urethra was nearly closed also. The patient, aged G8, had suffered under vesical symptoms for upwards of five years, and for the last six months with most excruciating pain in the regions of the kidneys and bladder ; he voided his urine in drops, or in a very small stream, had pain in the rectum, and was costive. The existence of enlargement of the prostate was ascertained, by examination through the rec- tum : one of the smallest sized bougies passed with great difficulty. The patient suffered from continual haematuria towards the close : death was immediately caused by rupture of the right ureter and effusion of three pints of 1 Bis. of Urinary Organs, Ed. 2, p. 161. a Loc. fit. urine and blood behind the peritoneum. The liver and lung also contained encephaloid growths. In the following case, observed by Mr. Stafford, the disease proved fatal from its in- fluence on the urinary functions before the occurrence of ulceration. A boy, aetat. 5, having been for three or four months subject to “ irritable bladder,” voiding his urine very frequently, and remarkable for the tumid state of his belly, was brought to the Marylebone Infirmary with complete retention, complain- ing of no pain, but restless and irritable, with an anxious and depressed countenance, furred tongue, and considerable fever. A small elastic gum catheter was passed without difficulty, and twenty-five ounces of urine of natural colour drawn off. The pow'er of voiding the urine naturally being totally lost, the catheter was used twice daily, and at length, from the ra- pidity with which the urine accumulated, left in the bladder altogether. The boy gradually sank, and died on the eighth day after admis- sion. The prostate was found to be of glo- bular form and as bulky as the largest walnut; the so-called third lobe to be nearly as large as a small hazel-nut (about the normal size of the entire gland in a subject of this age) ; the section of one lateral lobe exhibited the co- lour, consistence, and texture of encephaloid, in one part apparently mixed w'ith melanotic matter. The abdominal and thoracic viscera were healthy, nor was any other cancer dis- covered ’. (c.) Testis and Epididymis. (See Testis.) 2. Female (a.) Uterus. (See Uterus.) (e.) Ovaries.—Cancer of the ovary may either exsist as an extension of the disease from the uterus ; originate independently of, but subsequently to, the formation of cancer in the latter organ ; appear as a primary af- fection, or consecutively to the growth of car- cinoma in distant organs. Its occurrence un- der the latter circumstances is regarded by Cruveilhier, as we have already mentioned, as extremely rare. Without being able to state the frequency of ovarian cancer w'ith any pre- cision, w e are justified in affirming that it is far from uncommon ; and that while Bayle has fallen into a most singular error in almost questioning its occurrence, Boivin, Duges, and Dr. F. Churchill, exaggerate materially in considering it more frequent than carcinoma of the mammas. Scirrhus and encephaloid of the tuberiform and infiltrated kinds occur in this organ ; but we are not aware that true alveolar colloid cancer has yet been discovered in it. The carcinomatous affection may be the sole dis- ease present: when this is the case, and when it assumes the tuberiform character, the sub- stance of the ovary may sometimes be found on the external surface of the diseased growth 1 Med. Cbir. Trans, vol. xxii. p. 218. 1839.