ERYSIPELAS. 145 rous cases that we find developed without any appreciable cause ? How understand the production of erysipelas by the identical causes that had been often before, and may subsequently be, innocuous ? The great fre- quency of erysipelas of the head after opera- tions or wounds has been invoked as a proof that erysipelas may be the result of a purely local disposition ; but if we bear in mind the great preponderance in frequency of erysi- pelas of the head, this circumstance will not be considered to invalidate the opinion that is here advocated. These considerations, equally applicable to epidemic and sporadic erysipelas, lead us to conclude that erysipelas is principally owing to a constitutional disposition, a special condi- tion of the economy, that we shall probably ever remain in ignorance of, but which we are obliged to recognize from its effects. Con- sequently in the etiological history of erysi- pelas, we are reduced to the study of its pre- disposing and exciting causes, which are found in the exterior world, and in the inner being, and constitute what are called external and internal causes. External causes.—The seasons exert a con- siderable influence in producing the disease, and although erysipelas is found at all sea- sons, the spring and autumn, especially the latter when preceded by a very hot summer, furnish a considerable predominance of the disease. Erysipelas is said to be endemic in certain localities in which ventilation is in- complete, or the air loaded with foul efflu- via *. Certain sensible qualities of the air, especially cold damp, is said to promote the development of erysipelas ; but it has not been shown to produce it oftener than other diseases. The influence of the atmospheric constitution deserves more particularly to fix the attention of practitioners, as it imparts to the disease a genius, to use an expression of the Montpellier School, which often gives rise to special therapeutical indications, as we shall presently see. There sometimes exists at certain seasons, and even during a course of years, a peculiar condition of the atmos- phere, wholly inappreciable by any physical means of investigation, which disposes so com- pletely to erysipelas, that the slightest excit- ing cause, the smallest abrasion or most superficial excitation of the skin, almost in- fallibly determines the development of the affection. Sometimes this influence is such that there is no need of even an exciting cause, and the disease assumes a real epi- demic character. It is, then, impossible not to admit the existence of an erysipelatous con- stitution of the atmosphere. Tozzi2 speaks of an aggravated form of epidemic erysipelas that prevailed at Naples during the autumn and winter of the year 1700. A similar epi- demic raged at Toulouse in 1716, which, from 1 Traite de l’Erysipele, par Aim. Lepelleticr. Paris, 1836. 2 In Hippocratis Aphorismos Comment, t. vii. VOL. II. the mortality it caused, was compared to the plague. Bromfield 1 mentions an epidemic erysipelas of the head that lasted two years, in which the antiphlogistic treatment was gene- rally attended with fatal results, and bark and cordials were most serviceable. Darluc2 gives an account of what he calls an erysipelatous putrid fever, which prevailed in the different villages round the gulf of St. Tropez during the years 1750 and 1751. During the epi- demic that prevailed in Paris in the year 1828, Dupuytren was reduced to the necessity of postponing all operations that were not urgent to perform, and in the lunatic asylum at Cha- renton all external revulsions, which consti- stute the basis of the treatment of mental alienation, were obliged to be suspended3. The difference of opinion that exists in England and France, with regard to the con- tagious nature of erysipelas, would tend to prove the influence that climate and habits of life exert in modifying even the nature of disease. Numerous facts, authenticated by indisputable authority 4, go to prove the con- tagious nature of erysipelas in Great Britain and Ireland, while equally respectable authori- ties in France concur in the opposite opinion5. I have had in this city a case, the circum- stances of which may be adduced in favour of either opinion : an English lady was at- tacked with erysipelas while she continued to partake of the same bed with her husband, who was labouring under erysipelas of the face ; yet her daughter, who was her sole nurse, unremittingly watching over her night and day, constantly reclining on her bed and frequently holding her in her arms, did not contract the disease. There is another cir- cumstance in this case worthy of notice, and which, if the erysipelas of this lady was com- municated by contagion, militates against the opinion of Dr. Weatherhead, who considers erythema, erysipelas, and diffuse phlegmon essentially distinct diseases 6: the affection of the husband was of the simple benign form, while that of the lady was of the diffuse phlegmonous kind. The other external causes of erysipelas are referable to the applicata and ingesta. The former comprise all direct irritations of the skin, contusions, wounds, operations, especi- 1 Chirurg. Observations and Cases, 1773. 2 Recueil d’Observations de Med. &c. par Vander- mondi. 3 Rayer, Op. cit. ■* Wells, Trans, of Soe. for Improv. of Med. and Chirnrg. Knowledge, vol. ii. Weatherhead, Essay on the Diagnos. between Erysip. Phlegmon and Erythe- ma. Stephenson, Trans, of Medi.-Chirurg. Soc. of Edinburgh, vol. ii. Gibson, Ibid. vol. iii. Arnott, Lond. Med. and Phys. Journ. March, 1827. vol. lvii. Copland, Dictionary of Pract. Med. Art. Erysipelas. Tweedie, Cyclopedia of Pract. Med. Art. Erysipelas. Mac Dowel, Dublin Journal, of Med. and Chem. Science. Nov. 1834. vol. vi. 3 Alibert, Nosog. des Dermatoses. Brett, Abrege Prat, des Malad. de la Peau, par M. M. Cazenave et Schedel. Chomel, Op. cit. Rayer, Op. cit. Lc- pelletier, Op. cit. 6 Op. cit.