AMAUROSIS. 93 I have several times found that the loss of function has been confined to that portion alone of the retina in which disorganization has been produced by the injury. I have observed the same fact in these cases, as in those in simple concussion, viz.: that if all perception of light be lost immediately after the receipt of injury, a perfect state of amau- rosis remains, but if perception of light exists, the recovery of some useful or good vision is probable ; but the surgeon should be cautious in forming his prognosis in consequence of the risk from subsequent inflammation. The ex- tent of organic lesion may in some measure guide the opinion of the surgeon. I have found the lesions of the deeper tunics more manageable under the subsequent inflamma- tion, than rupture or laceration of the scle- rotic ; indeed I hardly recollect an instance of the latter form of injury in which vision has been preserved. The inflammatory action in the choroid and iris is readily controlled by moderate deple- tion, and the use of mercury, but that of the sclerotic often continues in spite of the utmost care of the surgeon; it induces much distress and suffering, and eventually other textures become involved in the diseased action, a general chronic inflammation of the globe is induced, and atrophy ensues. Such has been the termination of a large majority of the cases of ruptured sclerotic which have come under my observation; even in some in which I have had sanguine hopes of preserving useful vision (the larger portion of the retina having re- tained its functions nearly complete, for some time subsequent to the receipt of the injury), a slow inflammation has always defeated my expectations, although I have taken every pains to prevent it. After severe injury to the globe the iris often remains tremulous. FUNCTIONAL DISTURBANCE OF THE ORBITAL PORTION OF THE OPTIC NERVE. That portion of the optic nerve which is situated in the cavity of the orbit has occa- sionally its functions disturbed by pressure arising from disease of the osseous parietes of the cavity, or from morbid growths or enlarge- ments within it; as by nodes, various forms of tumours, aneurism, &c., or from suppuration. There is frequently some difficulty in de- ciding on the precise nature of a disease in the orbit; but it rarely happens that there is any doubt of the cause of the amaurosis in such cases : for example, the globe may be pro- truded, and vision be disturbed or lost, and the surgeon may be able readily to distinguish some morbid growth in the orbit which occa- sions the protrusion of the globe, and disturbs the functions of the optic nerve; but he may have great difficulty in determining whether such growth be of a fatty nature, encysted, or of a fibrous character. The diagnosis, therefore, as regards the amaurosis is simple, but the prognosis, from the obscurity of the disease, or rather of the cause, is frequently difficult. The amaurosis, in all such cases, is slow in its progress, and rarely complete, excepting when the optic nerve becomes implicated in the diseased action, and some organic change is produced in it. Unless I were to enter into a full explana- tion of the diseases of the orbit, I could not, with any utility, describe their treatment, and in doing the former, I should far exceed the scope and limits of the present paper. ORGANIC DISEASE OF THE OPTIC NERVE. Organic change in the optic nerve is ex- tremely rare; whether as resulting from dis- ease which commences in it, or extending to it from the orbit, or even as the effect of violence. If we could distinguish accurately the symp- toms which attend the commencement of the morbid action which leads to organic change in the texture of the optic nerve, we might adopt some decided plan of treatment; but I do not know of any means of effecting this ; and when the change has taken place, either from morbid action or from organic lesion, the amaurosis cannot be benefited by medical or surgical skill. Most of the organic changes found in the orbital portion of the optic nerve do not ori- ginate in it, but are consequent upon disease which begins in the retina, or cerebral parts of the nervous apparatus of vision. FUNCTIONAL AMAUROSIS FROM CEREBRAL DISTURBANCE. This form of amaurosis is seldom complete or perfect, the function of vision being either partially interrupted, or generally obscured, but not destroyed. Symptoms.—The patient either loses the perception of a part or parts of a large object; thus he may see the upper half of a face with- out being able at the same time to distinguish the lower half (hemiopia—visus dimidiatus,)or he may be able to perceive one side of the face only,—or the central part may be dis- tinct whilst the lateral portions are invisible ; or further, on the contrary, the lateral parts may appear, whilst the centre is obscured. Sometimes the extent of the amaurosis con- tinues the same through the attack, but in other instances it increases so as to extend over the whole of the field of vision. In these cases there is not any appearance of spot, spots, web, gauze, cloud, or other seeming intervening matter between the eye and object, as in choroiditis, but part or parts of the object are distinguished but very faintly, or are quite invisible. Severe general headach, either precedes or follows the above symptoms, and the patient also suffers from nausea, with loss of appetite and general depression and chilliness. The amaurotic affection seldom continues beyond a few hours, and evidently depends upon an irregular state of cerebral circulation sympathetic with the gastric or hepatic irrita- tion or derangement.