351 FRACTURE. the bones, the fear of ankylosis need not induce us to disturb the cure. Sir Charles Bell speaks of fracture of the condyles, involving the elbow-joint, as an un- lucky case for a young surgeon, on account of the probable degree of permanent stiffness: the management of the case on right princi- ples may have a contrary result. To obviate, by active measures, all the inflammation that might terminate in induration of the soft tis- sues ; and to avoid all bandaging and appli- cations that would disturb, even when it seems time to try passive motion, are the best means of success. The reputation of the surgeon, and the welfare of the patient, render it a very im- portant and anxious question—when is motion to be employed to obviate ankylosis, after fractures involving joints? Now the only cause of remediable ankylosis is the contrac- tion of tissues subsequent upon severe inflam- mation. Let us not, therefore, aggravate this in its onset or in its decline, and some relaxa- tion will be effected by spontaneous absorp- tion. It will subsequently be a study for the most philosophical observer to determine, for the treatment of soft ankylosis, how much may be gained or lost, by violence, by nature unaided, and by judicious medicines. Any violence that excites inflammation must be prejudicial. There is something unsound and mischie- vous in the unreserved assertion, that motion and friction produce absorption: as we have already shown, with reference to fracture, their first effects are to augment inflammatory actions ; while their simpler effect is to aug- ment the nutrition of a part. We have seen, too, that disuse is the cause of declining nutri- tion, and consequent atrophy, just as rest faci- litates the subsidence of inflammation. With regard to pressure, its effects are in accord- ance with its degrees, and the powers of the individual body. The pressure of a pound weight may cause atrophy, or inflammation,— with thickening or with sloughing. I have elsewhere illustrated the idea, that tension causes hypertrophy, as in the instance of bone *, or adventitious ligament; and it is ' These principles or laws of action deserve the fullest consideration, for I conceive there are some material points of common practice totally at variance with them. Are there no strictures aggravated by catheterism? Have we no joints ankylosed by the straining to relax them? no reparations obstructed through the want of some tensions? Two curious illustrations of the influence ot tension and pressure occur to me as additionally explanatory of these views. They are somewhat out of place, but not undeserving of attention. A fungoid tumor growing within the upper end of tho tibia, expands and almost annihilates it. The bone is absorbed, in consequence of pressure from the new formation; and «oon, the fibula suffers from the pressure of the same tumor. There is a fibula in the Museum of the Col- lege of Surgeons, thus rendered as thin as a shilling, and near two inches wide. Pressure has flattened the bone by absorption, and inflammation or nutritive ossification has added to its less pressed edges. Again, whenever cylindrical bones, as the femur and fibula, become curved under longitudinal pressure, (as by the only apart of the same principle, which explains, how motion may continue to excite inflamma- tory and nutrient depositions about a stiffjoint. Thus far, then, there is room for a caution against aggravating the case. Nature absorbs the unemployed parts the more readily when nu- trition is scanty ; she nourishes parts in a state of tension or use, the more freely as the frame is replete. When the disposition to absorb is active, pressure or friction, or it may be, some violence, may accelerate its opera- tion ; but in the case of abounding nutrition, we may only look for inflammation or nutri- tion,—disorganization or thickening. FRACTURES OF THE FORE-ARM. Fractures of the fore-arm are more frequent than those of the arm, inasmuch as the fore- arm is more exposed than the arm, to the many forms of violence, whether direct or indirect. The twro bones of the fore-arm, the radius and ulna are often fractured together, but fractures of the radius alone are much more common. In the frequent accidents from falls upon the hands, the ulna only secondarily receives the shocks, which are conveyed to it by the radius or carpus ; and the radius, as the outer bone of the arm, is the more ex- posed to other forms of accident. According to Mr. Lonsdale’s table, frac- tures of the fore-arm comprise l of all frac- tures ; thus, of 1901 cases, there were 386; namely, Out-patients. In-patients. Fractures of the ulna — 63 1 64 olecranon 29 1 30 coronoid process .. 2 0 2 radius 193 4 197 the two bones.... 85 8 93 386 Fractures of the ulna alone, are, as we have seen, much less common than those of the radius. The most frequent seat of fracture of this bone is its lower portion, where it is most slender and superficially placed. Its olecranon and coronoid processes are also occasionally detached by fracture. The fracture of its lower extremity is caused either by a direct blow, or by falling on the inner side of the fore-arm ; the lower end of the ulna, in the latter case, perhaps, meeting some dense resisting body. The injury is plainly marked by a depres- weight of the body on the femur,) the bone so curved, in addition to its weakness, labours under a diminished power of resistance, in consequence of this form—its concavity bears undue pressure, and its convexity has to resist an undue share of extension. Now, both the pressure and extension lead to the deposition of bone, especially in the parts on which they act most (as it were to excite nutrition). The hone grows excessively at its concavity and convexity, whether it bows for- wards or sideways ; and it is not uncommon to see the long bones of the legs like so many scythes, excepting near the joints, where other tensions are in operation.