AMAUROSIS. 91 tion of useful vision in one eye before they seek relief, in consequence of not suffering from pain. A similar insidious form of the disease may also go on, after the acute stage has been arrested, but when the morbid action has not as yet been perfectly subdued. Before the amaurosis becomes perfect, the greater number of these cases can be remedied or much benefited by a steady perseverance in the alterative course, with attention to diet, to the condition of the secretions, and rest of the organ; now and then it is neces- sary to produce slight mercurial action, and maintain it for a short time. These remarks are suited not only to those cases in which the pupil remains clear, but even to those in which the capsule of the lens has be- come opake, or covered by an opake deposit, and adheres to the pupillary margin of the iris, supposing that perception of light re- mains, and the globe retains its usual firmness, elasticity, and figure. I believe that many of the last mentioned cases may be remedied by the union of medi- cal treatment with operation, which would be lost by operative proceeding alone ; the eye being much less disposed to inflammation after the medical course, whereas without it the operation will generally excite a fresh morbid action which will defeat its intention. When the disease has produced a complete state of amaurosis, so that the perception of light is destroyed, the case is not entirely hopeless, unless the globe be hard, and the selerotic has in part given way (staphyloma sclerotic®), or when, on the contrary, it has become soft and Somewhat diminished in size ; for when the affection is of very long continu- ance, the retina and vitreous body become sometimes implicated in the morbid action, and partial atrophy ensues. If, in fact, the globe possesses its natural firmness and elas- ticity, and the pupil be clear, I consider it worth while to give a fair trial to mercurial treatment, provided that the age and power of the patient admit of its adoption without risk. The treatment required is severe, but attended with much less risk than would be supposed, when carefully conducted. It consists in es- tablishing a full and free mercurial action, and sustaining it for several weeks or months; at the same time, however, power must be main- tained by good nutritious diet and a moderate quantity of stimulus. I consider that the safety of the treatment and its efficacy depend very greatly upon the support of the general power, for whilst this is properly sustained, I believe that the remedy cannot produce any general injurious effect, though its operation upon the local disease may proceed most beneficially. Unless the general power be maintained, the effects of the mercurial action on the system are extremely distressing and injurious ; and it can rarely be continued long enough to remedy the amaurosis. These observations result from great prac- tical experience, not only in ophthalmic dis- ease, but in other surgical affections, in which the continued and full use of mercury is of the greatest use in arresting and subduing diseased action. The plan of treatment should be as follows: Confine the patient to his house or room, and ascertain if the principal functions are pro- perly performed, and if not, let any error be corrected before the mercurial course be com- menced. When the patient is in a fit con- dition, begin with small doses of one of the mild preparations of mercury, as the hydrarg. c. creta, or the oxide of mercury ; and allow a form of diet equal to that which the patient has been generally accustomed to, but forbid the use of vegetable acids, greens, uncooked vegetables, or such articles of food as may be likely to interfere with the operation of the mercury. Watch the condition of the secretions, and suspend the use of the medi- cine under any attack of diarrhoea, or disturb- ance of stomach or bowels ; and do not re- sume its exhibition until the disturbance be cor- rected, either by aperients, in case of irritating secretion, or aromatics and absorbents when there is only inordinate secretion. The mer- curial preparations should be varied and com- bined with narcotics, to prevent, if possible, irritation of the digestive organs or alimentary canal; and if this cannot be avoided, the inter- nal use of the remedy must be abandoned, and the external employment of it by friction re- sorted to. As the operation of the mercury becomes manifest on the system, by a spongy and ten- der state of the gums, it often happens that the patient becomes depressed and irritable, and requires an improvement in diet, or a little more stimulus, to keep up his power ; and oc- casionally I have given some bitter and am- monia with good effect. The mercury should never be pushed during general depression or irritability; but, if possible, the action obtained should be maintained, and as soon as general circumstances will permit, the action of the medicine should be gradually increased, until a full effect be produced, and a free discharge of saliva occurs. When the tenderness of the mouth prevents the patient from taking solid food, nutriment should be frequently given in a soft or fluid state ; milk, eggs, good plain soups, jelly, panada, &c., will afford ample support ; the extreme tenderness of the mouth may be much relieved by a gargle of alum, or of chlo- ride of soda, or by sipping some cool mucila- ginous fluid. Although in most instances some improve- ment takes place in the case, during the de- velopment of the mercurial action, yet occa- sionally, no perceptible change occurs until the full effect of the medicine has been kept up for some time. I have known three weeks elapse from the commencement of a full state of salivation before any marked beneficial change in the amaurosis has been perceived. The treatment should not, therefore, be aban- doned under a month’s trial. Cases of complete amaurosis, from cho-