EMPHYSEMA. 78 Meniere has observed this phenomenon three times. His patients were all middle-aged and primiparous, of spare habit, and delicate consti- tution. In every instance parturition had been protracted and laborious. No pain was felt by any of these subjects, either in the chest or trachea ; the swelling did not extend beyond the space bounded by the sterno-mastoid mus- cles, and had disappeared on the third or fourth day. Six such cases, it is stated by Dr. Townsend, have occurred in the practice of Mr. Johnson, of Dublin. He, too, in ge- neral, found the emphysematous swelling con- fined to its primitive seat,—the neighbourhood of the clavicles and mediastinum ; but, in one subject the air spread to the tips of the fin- gers. In an instance of this kind observed by Dr. Hamilton, the emphysema continued perceptible on the neck and breast three months after delivery '. Sudden hoarseness, of which the cause does not appear, has been known to occur simultaneously with the form- ation of this description of emphysematous swelling 2. A similar accident has been frequently ob- served after paroxysms of severe coughing. A child, attended by M. Vitrv, became, after such paroxysms, emphysematous over the chest and abdomen; the extremities grew cold, and suffocation appeared imminent. Scarifications were had recourse to, and the case ended favour- ably. One of asimilar kind, attended by Dr. Ire- land, terminated less fortunately. The infiltra- tion of air occurred in this instance during a fit of coughing, after the abatement of the inflam- matory symptoms of pneumonia. The pa- tient’s mother resolutely opposed the employ- ment of incisions, and the air accumulated to such extent as to cause fatal asphyxia,—the previous condition of the-lung no doubt con- tributing to this event. A similar untoward result occurred in the practice of Mr. Hicks. The patient, an infant two months old, la- boured under “ spasmodic cough.” General emphysema supervened, and proved fatal in thirty-six hours. The air was found, upon dissection, to have escaped under the pleura, at the root of the upper lobe of the right lung. Dr. Dumbreck has reported an analo- gous case, likewise fatal. Dr. Lilburn has known the affection end in recovery without scarification being had recourse to, though the emphysema pervaded the entire body ; the child, in this instance, had hooping-cough. Louis relates the case of a child, in whom emphysematous swelling of the neck appeared on the second day after a bean had fallen into the trachea He further alleges, that he could with difficulty believe such a condition to be otherwise than an essential symptom of the presence of foreign bodies in the air passages3. That he was in error in respect of the fre- quency of its occurrence under such circum- stances, is now well known. In a very con- 1 Halliday, Opusc. citand. p. 48. 2 Boddaut. 3 Memoires de TAead. de Chirurg. tom. iv. p. 516. siderable number of cases, observed by modern practitioners of eminence, no such symptom was noted. Lescure, however, mentions an instance in which the lungs were found em- physematous in their entire extentl. M. Prus long since drew the attention of medical jurists to the presence of interlobular emphysema as an attendent on asphyxia. M. Devergie has recently written on this point, and refers on the same occasion to the existence of such emphysema in a healthy female aged forty-seven, who was seized with a fit of suffocative dyspnoea in coitu, and died shortly after. The emphysematous swellings represented by Frank, Cullen, and others, to occur during fits of hysteria, are doubtless produced in the manner now under consideration. In this w'ay only, at least, is their occurrence compre- hensible. In some rare cases of hydrophobia, effusion of air into the cellular tissue has like- wise been noticed. In these instances, the patient’s struggles and vociferations were con- stant and furious. Professor Graham informs us he has seen the affection suddenly arise in a boy during a violent fit of laughter. It has been made a question, whether the emphysema occasionally developed during, or immediately after, the attempt to reduce old dislocations of the shoulder-joint, be expli- cable on the principle we have been illus- trating 2. Bichat attempted so to account for it 3 ; and the majority of writers have adopted his views on the matter. Professor Breschet, however, demurs to the correctness of this explanation, on the ground that neither pain nor dyspnoea, such as must be occasioned by the diffusion of air through the cellular tissue of the lung, occurred in the cases described. His objection cannot be said to have much weight. The experience of M. Meniere shows that the symptoms mentioned are by no means invariably observed, when inter- lobular emphysema is suddenly produced ; but, on the other hand, in the few w'cll- described cases we have been able to find, of emphysema produced by the reduction of dislocation of the humerus of long standing, the intumescence appeared first under the pec- toralis major, and thence spread to the axilla and neighbourhood. Now, it is plain, that, for this reason alone, the tumour cannot have been caused by escape of air from the media- stinum in the ordinary way, for it then spreads gradually from the space between the sterno- mastoid muscles. As it appears to us, there- fore, these cases, which are of exceedingly rare occurrence, are as yet unexplained. The comparative rarity of general emphy- sema, as a consequence of violent efforts, 1 Mem. de 1’Acad. de Chir. tom. v. p. 524. It is intelligible, that if the foreign body be sharp, it may, in the rapid movements to which it is sub- jected in the trachea, lacerate the mucous membrane, and thus lay the foundation of a more direct species of infiltration of air. 2 Vid. Desault, CEuv. Chir. tom. i. p. 378. 2 Sur la Vie ct la Mort, p. 388.