CANCER, TREATMENT OF, 647 astonished at the rapidity and permanence of cicatrization. In three other cases he per- formed an analogous operation and with simi- lar success. Although here we have not a sufficiently extended experience to prove the general value of the plan, yet the results obtained certainly merit attention. Three of the patients were seen three and six years after the operation in perfect health; the fourth died two years and a half after its per- formance of an affection unconnected with her cancer : yet that these were instances in which the disease was likely to prove fatal in the ordinary course of things appears from its previous progress in each, especially from the fact, that in three of them there had already been relapse after operation, in two recurring even twice. M. Martinet’s process consists in “ applying a sound, well-nourished flap of skin, taken from a more or less distant part, on the wound resulting from the excision of a cancer, either immediately after the opera- tion or after the development of granula- tions in his own cases he proceeded in the latter manner1. The account given by the French surgeon does not appear to have encouraged others to similar attempts ; at least Zeis and Blandin, the most voluminous writers on Plastic Surgery, do not allude to their having been made 2. Before closing this section of our article we shall briefly advert to a few general questions of importance. Among these is the degree of relationship of the three species of carci- noma. The differences of these products may first be exhibited tabularly. ENCEPHALOID SCIRRHUS COLLOID Resembles lobulated cerebral matter. Is commonly opaque from its ear- liest formation. Is of dead white colour. Contains a multitude of minute vessels. Is less hard and dense than scirrhus. Is frequently found in the veins issuing from the diseased mass. The predominant microscopical ele- ments are globules, not always distinctly cellular, and caudate corpuscula. Occasionally attains an enormous bulk. Has been observed in almost every tissue of the body. Very commonly coexists in several parts or organs of the same sub- ject. Is remarkable for its occasional vast rapidity of growth. Is frequently the seat of interstitial haemorrhage and deposition of black or bistre-coloured matter. When softened into a pulp appears as a dead white or pink opaque matter of creamy consistence. Subcutaneous tumours are slow to contract adhesions with the skin. Ulcerated cnccphaloid is frequently the scat of hemorrhage, followed by rapid fungous development. The progress of the disease after ul- ceration is commonly very rapid. Is the most common form under which secondary cancer exhibits itself. Is the species of cancer most fre- quently observed in young sub- jects. Resembles rind of bacon traversed by cellulo-fibrous septa. Has a semi-transparent glossiness. Has a clear whitish or bluish yellow tint. Is comparatively ill supplied with vessels. Is exceedingly firm and dense. Has not been distinctly detected in this situation. The main microscopical constituents are j uxtaposed nuclear cells ; cau- date corpuscula do not exist in it. Rarely acquires larger dimensions than an orange. Its seat, as ascertained by observa- tion, is somewhat more limited. Is not unusually solitary. Ordinarily grows slowly. Is comparatively rarely the seat of these changes. Resembles when softened a yellow- ish brown semi-transparent gela- tinous matter. Scirrhus thus situated usually be- comes adherent. Scirrhous ulcers much less fre- quently give rise to haemorrhage, and fungous growths (provided they retain the scirrhous cha- racter) are now more slowly and less abundantly developed. There is not such a remarkable change in the rate of progress of the disease after ulceration has set in. Is much less common before pu- berty. Has the appearance of particles of jelly inlaid in a regular alveolar bed. The contained matter is strikingly transparent. Greenish yellow is its predominant hue. (Its vessels have not been suffi- ciently examined as yet.) The jellylike matter is exceedingly soft; a colloid mass is, however, firm and resisting. The pultaceous variety has been detected in the veins. Is composed of cells in a state of emboitement. Observes a mean in this respect. Has so far only been seen in a limited number of parts. Has rarely been met with in more than one organ. Grows with a medium degree of rapidity. Undergoes no visible change of the kind. Has so far been observed in adults only. 1 Gaz. Med. de Paris, No. 42, 1834. a Plastic operations have frequently been performed after the removal of cancer of the face, with a view to remedy deformity, and with results in respect of permanent cure, which invite attention to M. Martinet’s opinions. Vid. Zeis. Handb. dcr Plast. Chirurg. s. 367, and Blandin, De l’Autoplastie, p. 256.