CATARACT. 728 the inflammation of the eye is severe, and of long duration, and recovers with a contracted pupil drawn towards the wound. In some of these an operation for artificial pupil may afterwards restore sight when it has been so lost. The application of belladonna to the eye, either shortly before or after the extraction of cataract, has been found to increase the liabi- lity to protrusion of the iris so much, that it is now seldom used before the operation, and never after it, till the wound of the cornea has united. h. Inflammation of the Eyeball. Inflammation of the eye always follows the operation of extraction to a greater or less extent, the organ having suffered a consider- able wound. A certain degree of inflammation is absolutely necessary for the healing of the incision. To prevent the inflammation being greater than is necessary for this purpose, always demands the assiduous attention of the surgeon. The inflammation which follows, occurs in different degrees in almost every case ; it affects different parts of the eye, nor is it uniform in the period of its attack. When the internal parts are affected, such as the iris and choroid coat, to a considerable degree, the eye is in great danger of being destroyed. The inflammation is indicated by pain in the eyeball or forehead, redness and tumefaction of the eye- lids, a feeling of sand, and sometimes pulsation or throbbing in the organ, external redness of the eyeball, opacity of the cornea, effusion of lymph or pus into the aqueous humour. These are sometimes attended with quickness of pulse, headach, and other symptoms of fever. The inflammation which supervenes, in the generality of cases, after the operation of ex- traction, has led operators to adopt the prac- tice of bleeding their patients from the arm, shortly after the operation, as a means of pre- vention. It is probable, however, that in- flammation may be best prevented by the patient adhering to an antiphlogistic regimen for some time previously to the operation, as well as after it, as has already been illustrated by the cases alluded to at $ 9. When there is much disposition to inflam- mation in the system, which may in general be known by the previous history and state of the patient, it is better not to perform ex- traction, but to have recourse to some of the other operations by the needle. Before ope- rating, however, it is necessary that the patient, under such circumstances, should live upon a very spare diet, which may obviate the ten- dency to inflammation. §17. Modifications of the Operation of Extraction. Operations for the extraction of cataracts through the cornea, have been performed in several w'ays, but in each by a smaller open- ing in the cornea than that made in the com- mon mode already described. 1. The first of these modifications which requires to be noticed, is that of the extrac- tion of the lens when situated in the anterior chamber of the aqueous humour in the man- ner the operation was first performed by Daviel. This consists in making an opening through the cornea, to the extent of one-third of its circumference, with a lancet-shaped knife ; a small hook is then to be introduced, by which the lens is to be laid hold of and extracted. This mode of removing the lens, when situated in the anterior chamber, from accident, as by a blow upon the eye (or dur- ing an operation with the needle for the dis- placement of the lens), has led some opera- tors1 to place the lens first in the anterior chamber by the needle, introduced through the sclerotica, and then to extract it by the less extensive opening in the cornea above mentioned. To this operation a preference has been given, because it is more easily ac- complished, the less extensive wound of the cornea heals more readily, and the lips of the wound, by being more completely approxi- mated, obviate the risk of prolapsus of the vitreous humour, or of the iris. When the vitreous humour is in a dissolved state, this mode of operating will be less dangerous to the eye than the common operation for ex- traction, from its being completed without pressure upon the eye, which might cause the evacuation of that humour. In performing this modification of extrac- tion, the needle, which is introduced through the coats of the eye, to push the cataract into the anterior chamber, requires to be held by an assistant, to retain the cataract in its new situation, while the operator makes the incision through the cornea and extracts it. 2. Another modification of extraction is that first practised by the late Mr. Gibson of Man- chester, for the removal of soft cataracts*. The mode which this gentleman practised was to rupture freely the anterior part of the capsule of the lens with a needle, and after an interval of two or three weeks he extracted the pulpy lens, through a puncture at the side of the cornea. After making the opening through the cornea, the point of the needle was made again to lacerate freely the capsule of the lens. After this the portions of the lens were eva- cuated with the assistance of the curette intro- duced through the cornea and pupil. This operation Mr. Gibson was led to adopt in order to supersede the repeated operations which were. in general necessary for the re- moval of cataracts by solution, a measure which obviated the inconvenience to the patient of being harassed with numerous operations, and his health injured by a tedious cure. 3. Extraction of cataracts through the sclerotica. —Several surgeons have at different times re- commended the extraction of cataract through 1 Travers, Med. Cliir. Trans, vol. v. 2 Practical Observations on the Formation of an Artificial Pupil; to which are annexed Remarks on the Extraction of Soft Cataracts, &c. p. 103. London. 1311.