ANEURISM. 249 Dupuytren observed a case at the Hotel- Dieu below the middle of the thigh, which had been caused by a deep stab made with a shoemaker’s knife ; and Breschet who de- scribes this case, in his memoir, also speaks of another in which a communication existed between the common carotid and external jugular vein. This is perhaps the same case, that has since been described in the Journal Complementaire des Sciences Medicates, by M. Williaume, Surgeon of the Military Hospital at Metz, and which was caused by a sword stab just above the clavicle. Sanson had a case in which, from a gun-shot wound, a vari- cose aneurism was produced in the subclavian vein. It would appear, therefore, that although the puncture with the lancet in bleeding is the most common cause of this form of aneur- ism, it is by no means the only one. Varicose aneurism has even been known to occur spon- taneously. Mr. Syme of Edinburgh has re- lated in the Edin. Med. and Surg. Journal, July, 1831, an account of a case, in which a communication had been formed between the aorta and inferior cava ; so that, as we some- times see the true aneurism converted into a diffuse aneurism by the sudden bursting of the sac, so also do we find, as in this instance, a varicose aneurism formed without any wound, the communication having been formed by ulceration of the coats of the vein and artery at the point where they were in contact. But from whatever cause the disease arises, the effect is the same : the limb feels colder, from want of its accustomed supply of arterial blood, a large portion of which being diverted in its course towards the capillaries, flows into the vein, and returns to the heart without proceeding beyond the point of communication between the vein and artery. Breschet thinks that the current of the arterial blood into the vein, may alternate with that of the venous blood into the artery, an opinion which he thinks proved by the feeling of numbness and cold in the limb, the muscular debility and impaired sensibility, and the singular trans- formation which the artery undergoes, be- coming enlarged and tortuous below the point of communication, and its coats soft, and plia- ble, like those of the veins. Varicose aneurism never makes its appear- ance after the infliction of the wound. The compression which is generally employed to arrest the bleeding from the external wound, causes an adhesion of the superficial wound of the vein, but the wounds of the vein and of the artery remain open or are closed only by a temporary coagulum, which, when the com- pression is removed, and the natural force of the circulation is restored, becomes detached, and the aneurism then makes its appearance. There is seldom any difficulty in distin- guishing the varicose aneurism. A pulsating tumour, of an ovoid shape, makes its appear- ance after a wound of a vein placed over the transit of an artery ; the pulsations are syn- chronous with those of the pulse, and there is likewise a tremulous motion and hissing sound in the swelling. William Hunter, who was the first to ascertain the real nature of this affection, in 1757, describes this noise to be such as would be produced by “ a blast of air passing through a small hole.” The varicose aneurism is not a disease of a dangerous cha- racter, and usually causes but little inconve- nience ; in most cases, particularly where the disease has occurred in the neck or superior extremities, the tumefaction of the vein is not very considerable, and remains stationary when the vein becomes distended as far as its coats will permit. The return of the venous blood from the capillary side of the tumour gradually becomes more easy, and in this state the patient may experience little inconve- nience during the remainder of his life. Dr. Hunter had seen a case in which no change had occurred for thirty-five years. Fig. 75. Fig. 75 represents ttvo drawings of varicose aneurisms at the hend of the arm, taken from casts in the Mu- seum at Guy's Hospital. In general, the tumour remains stationary, disappearing entirely when pressure is made on it, and re-appearing as soon as it is taken off. If pressure be made on the artery above the communication, the pulsations or trem- blings in the tumour cease, and it begins to diminish in size ; it also diminishes when the arm is raised, and augments when the arm is held down. There have been cases, however, where a varicose aneurism has continued to increase in volume, and where the subcutaneous veins have become so distended, and the limb so swelled, that it has been thought expedient to tie the trunk of the brachial artery. Treatment:—In general, gentle support of the tumour, will suffice to keep it in a station- ary condition. In some cases, however, it has happened, that the distension of the veins has augmented to such a degree as to deter- mine a necessity for operation. The applica-