ACETUM. 43 within the strict sense of our definition of the word abscess. But purulent collections are formed in the natural cavities, whether mu- cous, serous, or articular, and in such a manner as to present all the true characters of abscess. There is a striking' difference between the matter of those effusions which take place in serous cavities, and that of an abscess properly so called. The nature of the fluid is different from that of true pus, and seems to be com- posed of serum, mixed up and made yellow by coagulable lymph, or the matter of false membranes (see Empyema). In the case of the true abscess, the cavity is far from being co-extensive with the general cavity in which it happens to be formed ; the collection oc- cupies but a limited portion of the cavity, being circumscribed by adhesions, or mem- branous partitions whereby the isolation of the matter is as perfect as that of an abs- cess developed in the cellular tissue alone. Treating of purulent collections developed in these situations, it is merely for the conve- nience of phraseology, that they are spoken of as being formed in the natural cavities, for the cavity in which the pus is formed does not belong to the natural one, having been cut off from it by the adhesive process. Abscess in serous membranes.— In serous membranes the formation of matter is always partial, owing to the rapid production of the adhesions above-mentioned. Abscesses of this kind are formed frequently in the pleura, peri- toneum (see Abdomen), and in the arach- noid. Matter confined in the pleura may be evacuated, either by the corresponding surface of the thorax, through the intercostal spaces ; or internally through the substance of the lung, until it is evacuated by the bronchi; those of the peritoneum, through the abdo- minal walls, or through the intestinal canal; and mention has been made of a case in a preceding part of this article, in which the pus made its way through the bones of the cranium. (See Head.) Abscesses in mucous cavities.—Abscesses may be formed in the walls of mucous cavities, as in the stomach, bladder, &c.; but they are far from favouring, to an equal extent, as the serous membranes, the formation of the small, limited, purulent focus. When, however, the outlet of a mucous cavity is small, or ob- structed, it may not only become the seat of an abundant muco-purulent secretion, but even of the true abscess. We have examples of this mode of suppuration in the maxillary and frontal sinuses (see Oz^ena), in the cavity of the tympanum (see Ottitis), in the mas- toid, and ethmoid cells, and sometimes in the lachrymal sac. Various denominations, according to the situations of abscesses, will be found in authors; such as empyema, when in the pleura, vomica, in the substance of the lungs, hypopyon, in the anterior chamber of the eye, panaris, in the fingers, bubo, in the groin, &c. Bibliography—J. Hunter, on the Blood, Inflam- mation, and Gun-shot Wounds, an invaluable work. Thomson, on Inflammation. Edin. 1823. Roux, art. yI6ees, in the Dictionnairc dc Medccinc, in 18 vols. Paris, 1821. Richter, art. Abces, Encyclopad. Wijr- terbuch des Medicinisclien Wissenschaften, Berl. 1828. Berard, art. Abces, in the Encyclographie des Sci- ences Medicales. Brussels, 1834. Dupuytren, art. Abces, in the Dictionnaire de Medecine et de Chirurgie Pratique. Paris, 1829. (Wm. B. Costello.') AC ANTH ABOLOS, from aicavda, a “ spine,” and flaWtiv, “ to cast out,” a kind of forceps used to extract extraneous bodies from the windpipe, from any cavity, or from wounds. It is mentioned by Paulus /Eginetus; Fabri- cius, ab Aquapendente, and has been described by Scultetus. ACCIDENT, accidens, Lat., Zufall. G. in its ordinary and extended acceptation, means any fortuitous, or unforeseen occur- rence. The progress of pathology in the hands of our laborious neighbours, the French, has given a new and more limited value to this word. In their works, it signifies, in a general manner, symptoms, or ephinomena. It is used chiefly, though not exclusively, to designate symptoms of an unexpected kind, which occur in, and disturb the usual course of a disease. ACCIPITER, epervier, Fr., ltpa£, ‘ the hawka bandage applied over the nose; so called from its resemblance to the claw of the hawk. It is figured in Galen, and others of the older writers. It resembles the T band- age described under the head Confining band- age, and which is designed for the same pur- pose. (See Bandage.) ACCOUCHEMENT, lying-in. (See Par- turition.) ACEPHALOCYST, from a, and Ke</>a\rj, head, and kvotiq, bladder: a bladder without a head. (See Hydatid.) ACETUM, Lat., o£i>e, Gr., vinaigre, Fr., Essig, Ger., vinegar, Eng.—It is obtained from the distillation of wood; or, in a state of con- centration, by decomposing an acetate, and receiving the acetic acid by distillation. In this state it is highly volatile. It has been used by Bonvoisin, in Italy, as a vesicant, and rubefacient, and in cases of sudden inflamma- tion, such as croup, where expedition is an object, it affords a valuable resource for pro- ducing almost instantaneous vesication. For this purpose it is applied, by means of blotting- paper, or fine cambric. The vapour of con- centrated vinegar, being highly stimulant, is used to the nostrils in head-ache, languor, fainting, and asphyxia. When employed for this purpose, its pungency is moderated by the addition of a small quantity of powdered sulphate of potass, sufficient to moisten the salt. To neglect this precaution would ex- pose the person smelling the pure acid to high inflammation of the mucous membrane of the nostrils and of the frontal and maxillary sinuses. It is successfully employed as a caustic in de- stroying warts, and other indolent growths from the epiderm. Several acids are em- ployed in surgery, of the properties of which we shall speak under the names of the bases