318 ANKYLOSIS. manner, and it is now sufficiently established, that after this operation the limb is often of great value, certainly of greater than if it were ankylosed. So far, therefore, the argu- ment is in favour of Dr. Barton’s proposal; but before we give it our decided approba- tion, the important question has to be con- sidered, does it endanger the patient’s life ? If we look again to the somewhat analogous, though more severe operation of excision, we find that it has been almost invariably success- ful when performed in the elbow-joint, gene- rally, on the shoulder-joint, never, on the hip, where, indeed, it has been but once attempted, and rarely on the knee. There are many reasons, which the reader will be at no loss to call to mind, why an operation such as that proposed by Dr. Barton should be more suc- cessful than the operation of excision ; but I cannot bring myself to believe, that even the former can be performed on the lower extre- mities without considerable danger. The large size and depth of the wound must often- times give rise to severe irritative fever, or exhausting suppuration. These are risks which the evils of ankylosis do not warrant us in incurring; at least, I should find it difficult to wash from my hands the blood of any pa- tient of mine who died in consequence of an operation for the relief of ankylosed hip or knee. With regard to the joints of the upper extremity, the case is altered, at least so far as the elbow is concerned. On this joint, ex- cision is almost invariably successful, and the operation for ankylosis would be short and bloodless. It would often be sufficient to make a simple horizontal incision at one end of which the needle of the chain-saw might be introduced and brought out at the other, when a few movements of the instrument would complete the operation. At the same time there are but few combinations of cir- cumstances which would warrant us in inter- fering with an ankylosis, even in the elbow- joint. We ought to be well satisfied that there is no probability of a recurrence of the disease which gave rise to the ankylosis. After scrofulous caries, or what used to be termed white swelling, there is a remarkable tendency to a relapse, so that after several attacks, and as many tedious recoveries, the patient at length succumbs under a fresh in- vasion, or is compelled to submit to amputa- tion. If the ankylosis, therefore, has followed caries, an operation, unless the joint has been for many years in a quiescent state, would probably excite to growth the dormant seeds of disease. Again, if the arm be ankylosed in a convenient position, it would be unwise to interfere. The operation is, however, not only admissible, but highly desirable, when the' whole limb is rendered useless by the fore-arm being permanently flexed to its full extent, so as to lie in contact with the arm, or when the whole limb is perfectly straight. On the whole, therefore, the surgeon will do well to remember that, under certain circum- stances, even a densely ligamentous or osseous ankylosis is not wholly without the pale of surgical assistance. (John Blackburn.) To the above elaborate and highly practi- cally useful article, may be added a few ad- ditional observations relative to the treatment of those ankyloses called partial, (which are as burdensome to the individuals afflicted with them, as true or bony ankylosis) ; namely those which depend upon organic or functional lesion of tendon or muscle, whether that be 1. from sloughing or adhesions of them, 2. from spas- modic contraction, 3. from organic contraction through paralysis of antagonists, or 4. from contraction owing to long continued rest of the limb. We may suppose indeed that ankylosis of every kind interests, to a certain extent, all the muscles surrounding the articulation, or at least those which through having been for a long time relaxed by the position in which the joint has become fixed, have contracted them- selves ; and as in most situations of the body, or at any rate in those joints most prone to ankylosis, the power of the flexors exceeds that of the extensors, we find most commonly that in such incomplete ankylosis, depending partially or wholly upon contracted muscles and tendons, it is the former class of muscles which we have opposing the patient’s or our attempts to restore the limb to its natural motion. Yet where the patient has reached the adult age before the occurrence of the disease in and about the articulation, which has given rise to the (partial) ankylosis, we are usually able, unless the contraction, has existed beyond ten or twenty years, to overcome whatever resistance the muscles contracted merely through rest are able to offer, by a diligent perseverance in the means enumerated in the preceding article. Even if the patient be young and the contraction of the muscles through rest have existed but a short time, we may succeed in re-elongating them in the same way; but whether the patient be an adult or youth, if we have persevered weeks, months, or years, without effecting any benefit or a cure of the contraction we have no other alternative than the division of the resisting muscles and tendons, which has been mentioned by the author of the preceding article p. 307 ; in cases where the balance of muscular power may have been destroyed, and the safety and extensive application of which, was first suggested and demonstrated by Stromeyer, and confirmed by the success which has attended my own practice. I have recently divided the tendons of the biceps fe- moris, and semi-membranosus and semi-tendi- nosus muscles for the relief of a partial or so- called ankylosis of the knee joint, consequent upon protracted repose of the muscles and constantly bent position during the tedious progress of disease of the joint. The case was that of a young lady aged eleven ; the disease of the joint had commenced between four and five years previously, and after 12