BONE, DISEASES OF. 504- taints. It will be hereafter considered how far this inflammation can be distinguished in its effects from the simple form, by mere local appearances, and the characteristic appear- ances of each pointed out as far as they are known. IV. Morbid deposits, growths, and forma- tions. The most frequent morbid deposit met with in this country, is one of a curdy matter, in connexion with a peculiar state of the system termed scrofula. Its usual seat is the cancel- lated structure forming the articular extremi- ties of the long bones, in the bodies of the vertebrae and in the bones of the carpus and tarsus. From some microscopic observations I have recently made, I am more inclined to regard this deposition as a kind of deteriorated lymph, the result of inflammation, which had been modified by the debilitated state of the constitution of the individual, than as a depo- sit of the granular matter we find in the lung, &c., and call tubercle. In the first stage of this affection the increased vascularity of the part is often appreciable by the eye, always demonstrable by injection. The medulla, which filled the cancelli, is then gradually re- moved, and its place taken by a yellowish white curdy matter. As the disease advances, the bony cancelli become broken down, partially absorbed, or mixed with the morbid deposit, the bone is rendered lighter, and may be cut with a knife. The disease goes on to pro- duce ulceration of the cartilages of the neigh- bouring joint, and the formation of abscesses in the soft parts communicating with the bone, the vascularity of which has become so much diminished, that exfoliations are common. This subject, however, is so intimately con- nected with that of diseases of the joints, that it will be considered among them. The other morbid deposits, not malignant, have been before adverted to. A disease exists in bone, which Breschet regards as analogous to erectile tumours in the soft parts ; it is a species of pulsating tumour, the primary cause of which consists in aneu- rismal dilatation of the arteries of the bone, in other words, the “ aneurism by anastomosis” of Bell. Lallemand relates a case of this kind, which is said to have been cured by ligature of the femoral artery. Mr. Stanley makes slight allusion to four such cases. In general, however, the pulsation of osseous tumours does not result from their structure, but is owing to their being so situated, as to re- ceive and transmit the impulse of an artery or arteries, as was the fact in some interesting cases recorded by Dr. Cumin. Mr. Stanley refers to a case of his, where a tumour on the humerus pulsated strongly ; the walls of the tumour were about half an inch thick, com- posed of firm gelatinous matter, forming a ca- vity, which contained serous fluid. He also states, that there are fourteen cases recorded of bony tumours contiguous to a large artery, the walls of the bone being absorbed to such an extent that the impulse of the artery might readily be communicated to the whole mass. For further information on morbid growths, see Exostosis and Tumours. Spina ventosa is a term which has been applied to every known form of osseous mor- bid growth ; but its meaning is so indefinite that its use is here laid aside. Hydatids are occasionally met with in bone. There are three preparations in the museum of St. Thomas’s hospital quite sufficient to prove this. In one they exist in the spinal column ; in another, the cancelli of the head of the humerus have become absorbed, the com- pact structure expanded, and the tumour thus formed contained hydatids, several of which are preserved in a bottle. In the third case there is abscess of the femur and tibia con- taining hydatids. In the Hunterian museum at Glasgow is a femur, the lower extremity of which contains hydatids, several of which may be seen lying in the bottom of the jar. Mr. Keate has given a minute description of a case in the tenth volume of the Medico Chirurgical Transactions, in which hydatids were formed in the lower part of the os frontis. Various operations were performed with a metacarpal saw, by which the inner table of the cranium was completely exposed, and lint, soaked in a strong solution of sulphate of copper, was applied. Caustic potass, arsenic, and nitrate of silver, had also been applied to cells in the compact bony texture. Complete and permanent recovery followed. V. Bone is subject to malignant diseases, or in other words, it becomes the seat of morbid deposits, which do not resemble any of the primary tissues of the body in physical cha- racters, or organization. By these deposits the osseous tissue is gradually destroyed, or transformed into the morbid structure ; ad- joining tissues are successively attacked and destroyed ; and the lymphatics and neigh- bouring glands become implicated. Mr. Mayo remarks, that “ when new formations appear in bone, writh the local characters of malignant disease, they have not the same rootedness in the system as when they originate in the soft parts ; so that the removal of a bone attacked by malignant disease is not in general followed by a return of the complaint.” This, however, must be received with some limita- tion ; for even putting aside the probability that the deposit in the bone may be but the local evidence of a disease affecting the whole system, Sanson has shown that osteo-sarcoma returns with great rapidity, if only part of the bone affected have been removed. Sup- pose the lower extremity of the humerus, for example, to be attacked by osteo-sarcoma, and the bone be amputated in its centre, the dis- ease will very speedily return, even though bone, apparently healthy, existed between the tumour and the place of amputation. The practical rule, therefore, should be always to remove the whole bone, by amputating at the joint above the disease, or the bone beyond it. For malignant exostosis, and osteo-sarcoma, see Cancer, Exostosis, Osteo-Saiicoma.