EMPYEMA. 102 which will tend powerfully to increase the contraction of the side, and to cause dilata- tion of the bronchial tubes.” M. Woillcz finds that partial depression is a much more common consequence of absorp- tion than general contraction. This has been generally admitted ; M.Woillez however gives new precision to his statement by a table of the proportional frequency of the two degrees of heteromorphism in a number of cases. According to his experience also, as ex- hibited in the subjoined table, contraction is more common on the right than the left side, a circumstance which may, in some measure, depend upon the position of the heart. Pleuritic Effusion. RETRACTION. General. Anterior Antero-lateral Antero-posterior Posterior Postero-lateral Ilight Left side side 10 cases. 9 cases. 1 0 Total 19 cases. 1 4 1 1 4 L 8 4 1-2 The motions of the contracted half of the thorax are very imperfect, a sort of dragging elevation of the base being commonly the only movement observable, even in cases where respiration is tolerably audible. There is no phonic fremitus ; the sound is some- what duller than natural superiorly, and gra- dually becomes more and more so towards the base, where it is often as totally dull, as during the presence of extensive effusion. The transition from clearness to dulness is gradual not sudden ; so much so, that we have been accustomed to regard the absence of precise demarcation, as distinguishing the dulness of the effusive, from that of the ab- sorptive, period. Dr. Stokes, however, ap- pears to have found the dull sound marked by a precise boundary during the latter stage, and has sometimes discovered a bruit de pot file “at this line.” If the pleuritic disease were uncomplicated, the mechanism of this sound is not easily understood. The respiratory murmurs are always more or less deficient at the base of the chest, and may be completely inaudible. The expira- tory sound is prolonged and of bronchial or blowing quality. There is always more mur- mur between the scapula and spine than elsewhere ; in some cases it is heard in the lateral parts in such manner as to convey a distinct impression of its being produced at a distance from the surface. We have never detected aegophony in this stage of the dis- ease, but bronchophony is commonly to be found, especially on the posterior surface, and may be marked here, when no trace of it exists on the anterior. Friction sounds, vary- ing in type and usually most strongly marked on the posterior aspect, are sometimes dis- covered. Thus, we have found a distinct leather-creak in the supra-spinata fossa (where sounds of the friction class are under all cir- cumstances extremely rare), gradually dwin- dling into a slight rubbing sound at the angle of the scapula, while on the anterior surface scarcely more than a grazing sound could be detected. Dr. Stokes has known the sound produced in a case of absorption so loud, as to be audible at the distance of a foot from the patient’s chest. The duration of friction phenomena after absorption is extremely vari- able ; they may disappear in a few days, and we have known them still perceptible three months after retraction was established. Im- provement of the general health sometimes hastens their disappearance, probably from the impetus thereby given to organization of the plastic matter. The time which elapses between the acute attack and the restoration of the respiratory murmurs differs in different instances. In a case observed by Laennec, a period of two years and a half from the in- vasion of the disease had elapsed, before even a slight murmur of respiration became audible below the clavicle and at the upper part of the back. We have, however, on the other hand, known the patient as far advanced as this in two months after the commencement of effusion. The amount of contraction appears greater in certain cases than it really is, from the fact of enlargement of the sound division of the thorax having arisen in consequence of the development of hypertrophy of its contained lung. So marked is this hypertrophy in some subjects, that the organ, instead of receding when the chest is cut into, actually protrudes through the opening. In favourable cases some degree of expansion of the contracted side is effected with the progress of time, a change which arises after a very variable period, and is hardly observed, except in subjects of tender age. Figs. 232,233,234, exhibit different views of a chest con- tracted to a very remarkable amount,—the contrac- tion having principally affected the antero-posterior diameter '. The putient hud pleurisy of the left side about twenty months before the drawings were made; the pleural collection had opened externally at the antero-inferior part of the side, this opening re- mained fistulous for a time and then closed. A second fistulous opening formed at the postero-inferior part of the side, through which a considerable quan- tity of pus is still discharged daily. The following are some of the measurements of the two sides of the thorax•. Semicircular. right. left. Opposite nipples... 16J inches 12f inches A ntero-posterior. Under clavicles ... 4J 34 Opposite nipples... h'e ,r,Vs Partial. Nipple to middle line 4 2J Nipple to sterno- clavicular joint 6( 5J. 1 For the opportunity of observing this case, we are indebted to the kindness of Sir James Clark.