G58 CANCER. Fig. 163. The compact substance, according to Cru- veilhier, appears, so long as it retains its natu- ral structure, insusceptible of becoming the seat of cancerous formation ; but the facility of its transmutation into spongy tissue explains the occasional discovery of the morbid matter in the situation of the shell of the bones. The shape of these growths is exceedingly various, but appears in the cylindrical bones to be somewhat influenced by the form of their central cavity. They are either of the scirrhous or encephaloid species ; in the ma- jority of cases, of the former. The firmness of scirrhus thus situated is ordinarily very considerable, and Cruveilhier considers it only distinguishable from fibrous tumour by its furnishing cancerous juice under pressure. Tuberiform cancer, either primary or se- condary in these structures, is most commonly of the latter kind. It appears to attend mam- mary cancer more frequently than others, though by no means exclusively—witness among many proofs of this an interesting example, related by M. Cruveilhier, of its development in the vertebrae and ribs of a subject who had had a testicle removed for encephaloid disease six months before death. Other instances of the kind will be referred to in subsequent pages. This form of cancer is not attended with abnormal development or expansion of the shell of the bones in which it originates ; it resembles, on the contrary, the atrophous form of cancer in the soft parts, being commonly accompanied with molecular destruction, or absorption of the osseous tissue. Fig. 164. The general disposition of encephaloid matter infiltrated through the spongy tissue of the femur is shown in fig. 164. The compact tissue is reduced to a lamina of extreme tenuity ; the disease extended considerably further down the bone. For an example of pultaceous infil- tration we refer to the section on cancer of the meninges (fig. 165). When carcinoma occurs in the bones, as a mere evidence of the diathesis being esta- blished in a person with primary cancer else- where, it rarely, if ever, acquires such magni- tude as to cause external tumour ; when the osseous tissue is the original nidus of the mor- bid matter, the case is different, and enlarge- ment, visible externally, is produced in two distinct ways. 1. The deposition having oc- cupied the entire of the cancellated struc- ture, the investing shell may, as has been mentioned, be destroyed by preparatory con- version into spongy tissue and subsequent cancerous infiltration,—or absorbed from the pressure of the enclosed mass ; in either case the morbid growth escapes under the perios- teum, and then rapidly augments in size, while bony spiculaj sprout into its substance from the surface of the yet unabsorbed shell. (See fig. 168.) 2. Or the compact tissue may lie immensely expanded, and form, as it were, a vast osseous sac, encasing the morbid forma- tion,—in some parts of tolerable thickness; in others, reduced to a mere parchment-like lamina ; in others, perforated from absorption: this is one of'the diseased conditions to which the term “ spina ventosa” has been applied.