1G1 ERYSIPELAS. M to the tissues, the contractility of which may have been impaired, ought naturally to find a place in the treatment of erysipelas. Em- ployed by Rhazes in elephantiasis ', and by Ambroise Pare in oedema and ulcers 2, it was first used about the middle of the last century by Theden in phlegmonous erysipelas ensu- ing after what he calls importunate cases of phlebotomy 3. But the advantages of com- pression, though fully, were too modestly ex- posed by this author to obtain permanent consideration : it soon fell into disuse, and continued in oblivion till the master pen of Bretonneau restored it to that rank in thera- peutics, to which it is so eminently entitled. This distinguished physician having first em- ployed it with success in three cases of ex- tensive scalds, of which he himself was the first subject, was induced by analogy to apply it to the treatment of erysipelas, and the result far surpassed his expectations. He records in his inaugural dissertation the three cases in which complete success crowned his first essays4. Since then there has been col- lected, particularly by Velpeau5, such a mass of evidence in favour of this means of treatment, especially in the first grade of phlegmonous erysipelas, that it is not easy to comprehend the prejudice and discredit in which many continue to hold it. It requires no doubt some practice and dexterity to apply a bandage well, and all its partizans concur in admitting that when badly applied it may be productive of the most serious injury. Pare observes that when too tight it causes gan- grene and when too loose it is of no use. It is not, however, to be considered either as a universal remedy or one to supersede all others. There are several cases of erysipelas, many of which are easily foreseen, in which it is inapplicable ; and many forms of the disease in which its application would be injurious. In exposing the treatment of the varieties, care will be taken to point out the cases in which its application has been found to be most serviceable. Cooling and refrigerant topics are fre- quently used with much comfort and advan- tage to the patient ; but their indiscriminate use would be attended with too many dangers to admit of generalizing their application. When the reaction is considerable, and the heat and pain of the eruption intense, they may be used with impunity and often with much benefit, combined with general antiphlo- gistic means ; and cold effusions may be fre- quently repeated with any emollient, anodyne, or sedative lotion, such as the decoction of marsh mallows flowers, the decoction of elder flowers, almond emulsion, camphor mixture, 1 Op. Exquisitoria Basiliae. De Elephant, cap. 93. 5 Liv. xii. chap, xii.dcs Ulceres. et liv. vii. chap. xvi. de l’CEdeme. 3 Theden, Progres ulterieurs de la Chirurgie ; tra- duit de l’allemand par Chayrou, 1777. 4 Theses de Paris, 1815, no. 3. 5 Archives Generales de Med. tomes v. et xi. et Annuaire, Med. Chirurg. VOL. II. liquor plumbi subacetatis dilutus, or still better, according to Chomel, with simple water, which leaves no deposit on the parts susceptible of alteration. A lotion consisting of a solution of subcarbonate of ammonia and superacetate of lead, of each a drachm in a pint of rose water, has been recommended by Dr. Peart1 and highly extolled by Mr. Wilkinson 2. M. Malgaigne having witnessed the salu- tary effects of the application by Dr. Gamma of powdered camphor in a case of erysipelas, adopted its use, and assures us that the results obtained by this means entitle it to be con- sidered one of the surest and most powerful refrigerants 3. It may be simply spread over the erysipelatous surface, if the position of the eruption will admit of this way of apply- ing it; otherwise it should be kept in place by interposing a layer of it between two cloths : it should be kept continually wet to augment the evaporation, for when dry it ceases to have any refrigerant action. Spirituous lotions, applied so as to promote evaporation, have also been used with advan- tage 4. Dr. Copland uses epithems of spirits of turpentine, but he justly considers them “ inadmissible when suppuration appears in- evitable, when vital power is much depressed, or when a tendency to metastasis is mani- fest 5these reflexions are equally applica- ble to all refrigerants. The analogy that exists between the in- flammation produced by burns or scalds and the phenomena of erysipelas, naturally sug- gests a reciprocal use in the treatment of either of those affections of the means that had been found beneficial in the cure of the other. It was thus that Dr. Rennand was induced to make a trial of the application of raw cotton in the treatment of erysipelas, and the results exceeded his expectations. Mr. Cabissol, in a memoir on this subject, says that it calms the pain and stinging heat of erysipelas like enchantment, that the swelling and redness quickly subside with hardly any subsequent desquamation, and that the dimi- nution of the fever is equally prompt. He observes that its application is luckily advan- tageous in all forms (idiopathic, traumatic, phlegmonous, &c.) of the disease, and equally feasable whatever seat it may occupy. It does not, however, more than other topics dispense with general means of treatment, and if it does not always succeed in effecting the resolution of the disease, it yet serves, he says, to prevent its extension and to retain it within whatever limits it may be desirable to impose6. It should be well carded to de- prive it of all gritty particles, and a layer of it, sufficiently thick to protect the parts from 1 Practical Information on Erysipelas, &c. 180'2. 2 Remarks on Cutaneous Diseases, 1822. 3 Gazette Med. Annee 1832, t. iii. 4 (iu7.ee, Archives Generales de Med. 1833, t. i. 2e Serie. 5 Op. cit. e Journal des Connaissancee Med.-Chirurg. 3e. Annee.