AMAUROSIS. 86 fancy, very rarely in adult persons : it is distinguishable from the cat’s eye, in being apparent in almost any degree of light. In the eyes of old persons, the pupils have sometimes a greyish or silvery appearance, somewhat approaching the cat’s eye ; this re- sults from a deficiency of pigment, which can be detected when the pupils are dilated, and which is attended with a diminution of the power of vision. INFLAMMATION OF THE CHOROID (ACUTE). Synonyme—Choroiditis. Symptoms.—Pain deep-seated, dull, throb- bing, with occasional shooting, and sense of fulness or tension of the globe ; vision dis- turbed, the field being obscured by grey or black spots (muscae), or by a dark net-work or gauze, or by clouds, as of mist. Usually at first the disturbance is unequal, one part of the field being obscured more than another, and most frequently the obscurity is greatest at the inferior part ; there is also some ten- derness of the globe; often dull circumorbital pain of remittent character, and head-ache, or sense of weight at the forehead. The symptoms increase rapidly, and vision is soon destroyed. Appearances.—The eye appears partially red or inflamed, and the redness is dull and of a brick-dust colour ; a close inspection shows that it results from many of the small straight vessels of the sclerotica being distended with red blood ; they pass from the margin of the cornea towards the orbital margin, being most abundant near the cornea: the injection of these vessels is usually partial,—perhaps one- half of the portion of the sclerotica exposed may exhibit them, whilst the other part re- tains its ordinary character; or, if the whole visible surface be red, one part is more deep in colour than another ; a few tortuous vessels of the conjunctiva, slightly distended with red blood, are also often visible, and may be easily traced as supeijacent to those of the sclerotica, over which they may be made to move by pressing the membrane. The iris soon becomes dull, the pupil con- tracted, and its margin slightly irregular; and by degrees this membrane grows discoloured, and a thickening, with more irregularity, oc- curs at its inner border, which becomes at- tached, by points, to the anterior capsule of the crystalline lens (synechia posterior). Last- ly, the capsule of the lens becomes opake, or covered by a deposition of opake fibrin. The sclerotic coat in very severe or pro- tracted cases, now and then gives way near to the corneal circumference, and is protruded outwards (forming staphyloma scleroticae); it is evidently thinned, and appears bluish or brown-coloured, from the subjacent varicose choroidal vessels or the pigment being partly apparent through it : the globe feels hard and tense. This disease is confined very much to those who are of scrofulous diathesis and naturally of feeble power ; it occurs in children, (I have seen it in infants,) and in adults below the middle period of life ; very rarely indeed in elderly persons. Causes.—Over-exertion of the eyes, or ex- posure to bright light, or to cold and damp. It rarely commences in the acute form, with- out some warning of congestive, or subacute character, which sometimes occur weeks or months before the acute disease bursts forth. Prognosis—is favourable, if the retina be sensible of the influence of light, and there be no organic change affecting the capsule of the lens, or the sclerotic ; and even when the capsule of the lens has become opake, without alteration in the sclerotic, vision may often be restored by medical and surgical means com- bined. Much depends also upon the duration of the affection : the prospect of recovery diminishing in proportion to the lengthened continuance of the disease and its effects. Treatment.—The acute form is easily check- ed by local abstraction of blood by leeches or cupping, and by acting rather freely upon the secretions ; but these remedies should be care- fully adapted to the age and strength of the patient. I cannot, however, satisfactorily en- ter into the full consideration or explanation of treatment, without a description of the chronic form of the disease, which I shall therefore previously give. INFLAMMATION OF THE CHOROID (CHRONIC). Synonyme—Choroiditis. Symptoms.—More or less functional disturb- ance usually precedes the inflammatory action of subacute kind in the choroid tunic; and sometimes this disturbance continues for months or years without inflammatory action super- vening. The great variations in the degree of disturbance, and the occasional or frequent entire subsidence of the symptoms, evince the functional character of the disorder. The most common derangement of this kind consists in the appearance of one or two or numerous grey or black spots or figures in the field of vision (muscae), which present endless varieties, in figure, size and number, and occupy different positions in the field; most frequently they seem to move (volitantes,) especially on any sudden motion of the eye ; thus, if the eye be suddenly directed upwards, and fixed for a short time in that direction, the spot or spots appear to ascend, and then gradually to de- scend, as if falling. Sometimes the muscae are fixed, and occupy always the same relative position in the field of vision. On their first appearance, these muscae are faint and evan- escent, and of small size and number,—but by degrees, they increase in density, in size, and in number, and the forms vary and extend ; they also become apparent for longer periods, until at last some become permanent. They are most readily discerned on a light and bright ground, or when the patient looks at white paper, a white wall, a light cloud, &c.; but they are not visible if the eye be directed