CANCER, TREATMENT OF. G50 arily, in predisposed subjects, a basis of true (see PI. I. fig. 8), presented itself: it had the effects. But the question is a clinical one ; are individuals destroyed with the symptoms and manifestations of cancerous disease, in whose frame neither scirrhus, eneephaloid, nor colloid are to be found ? Never, we confidently affirm. Cystic and erectile for- mations sometimes apparently produce such effects ; but when this has been the case, post- mortem examination discovers them to have been the seat of carcinomatous development. Finally, the following proposition directly flows from numerous facts stated in the pre- ceding1 pages : a cancerous tumour under all circumstances, even should it remain single and stationary for years, is but the local evidence of a general vitiation of the system. But, it may be inquired, is not this a con- tradiction—how is it possible that if the organism at large be in a state of disease, a single spot shall alone manifest its pre- sence ? We confess our inability to explain away this difficulty ; but neither the fact of its existence nor its inexplicability shake the solidity of the opinion advocated. All pathologists, who have carefully investigated the history of the tuberculous affection admit that local agencies, of whatever kind they may be, can never cause the production of a particle of tubercle—that constitutional derangement must lead the way. Now here w'e have pre- cisely the same difficulty to contend with— a knot of tubercles may exist for years in the summit of a lung, and every other organ remain free to the last from the disease. Why this is so, we know not: these are the mysteries of pathology, and they are mys- teries which it would, in the existing state of the science, be idle to attempt to penetrate. From all that has been said we may deduce the following definition of cancer. Cancer is a disease anatomically characterized by the presence of scirrhus, eneephaloid, or colloid, originating in a general vitiation of the eco- nomy, and possessing the properties of assimi- lation, of reproduction, and of destroying life by a peculiar cachexia. Part II.—Of Cancer of Particular Parts. I.—The Slcin. The skin, especially of some regions of the body, is exceedingly prone to phagedenic ulceration ; and much uncertainty prevails among writers as to the precise relation such corroding ulcers bear to cancerous disease. The condition of the skin preparatory to ulceration of this kind varies. 1. The most common change consists in the formation of an indurated excrescence, which exhibits on section, as was first shown by Scarpa, the cha- racters of ordinary scirrhus. 2. The cutis is the seat of scirrhous infiltration. 3. Lesions which commence by ulceration induced by the continuous action of an irritating body, or of a particular ’ irus (syphilis), acquire second- scirrhus, and assume a phagedenic disposition. 4. Another class of ulcers neither originates in nor is accompanied with the formation of carcinomatous matter, but nevertheless pos- sesses a corroding and intractable character. Now, in cases belonging to the three first categories, there is no difficulty in under- standing why the ulterior progress of the dis- ease should be that of cancerous affections : in the two first it is truly carcinomatous ab initio, in the third it eventually becomes so. If it were proved that those of the fourth pos- sess the properties of such affections, that they are capable of producing special disorganiza- tion of the lymphatic glands, and contamination of the viscera, then there would be serious error in making the presence of eneephaloid, scirrhus, or colloid, necessary to the existence of cancer ; but this has never yet been done, and the sole cause of their having been ranged with cancerous diseases is, doubtless, their in- tractable, or so called, “ malignant ” character. Many simple syphilitic and scrofulous ulcers should, on the same plea, be pronounced cancers. From the uncertainty referred to has arisen some difference of opinion respecting the true nature of the disease termed “ chimney- sweepers’ cancer.” According to our views this affection may, or may not, be cancerous, and, in the latter case, may be so either pri- marily or secondarily; primarily, if it originate in true scirrhous infiltration or excrescence ; secondarily, if the ulcer produced by simple irritation become the seat of scirrhous or en- cephaloid formation. Of the cancerous nature of the specimen, in which we discovered the following appearances immediately after ex- cision, no doubt can be entertained. Four layers might be distinguished in the mass re- moved from the scrotum : 1. a stratum of firm laminar cellular membrane, presumed to be healthy ; 2. the deep layer of the morbid structure, consisting of an indurated substance as resisting as fibro-cartilage, creaking like that tissue when the point of a scalpel was rubbed along its divided surface, and possess- ing a linear arrangement—the fibres being perpendicular to the base; 3. a stratum of much softer material, of yellowish white colour, lobulated, and somewhat of a fungous aspect; 4. a viscid coating of ichor, of a brownish grey tint. These layers, more closely examined, presented the following characters. 1. With a common lens, a distinct partition of the cel- lular layer, by white opaque septa, enclosing yellowish and more transparent matter be- tween them, was plainly discernible. Under a microscope of 150 powers, a particle of this putative normal tissue was found to consist of cells, some irregularly shaped, others pen- tagonal, and containing a distinct nucleus with nuclear corpuscules. A number of minute bodies, without internal cavity (granules of Midler) floated free; in one part, an elon- gated mass, with exactly the appearance of the fibrous matter of carcinoma fasciculatum