m ENTROPIUM. Entropium with relaxation of the integuments of the eyelid. (Entropium senile.') In consequence of the firmness and breadth of its tarsal cartilage and the existence of the levator palpebrae muscle, simple relaxation of the integuments of the upper eyelid seldom produces any great degree of entropium ; it merely hinders the eyelid from being freely raised constituting one form of ptosis. It is the lower eyelid which is most generally the seat of entropium from relaxation. In this form of entropium, the margin of the eyelid and the eyelashes are in other respects perfectly natural and the tarsal car- tilage appears to be healthy. The eyelid is simply rolled back upon itself, sometimes, as has already been remarked, so much round that the margin with the cilia lie in the infe- rior palpebral sinus of the conjunctiva so that little or no irritation attends the inversion. If the finger be applied to the outside of the eyelid and the skin pressed down a little, the margin of the lid with its eyelashes readily starts into its place, and will continue so of itself until the patient winks, when it will fall back with a jerk into its former state of in- version. A relaxed and superabundant state of the integuments of the eyelid, does not appear to be of itself the exciting cause of the entro- pium ; it appears merely to favour its deve- lopment at first, and to allow of its continu- ance afterwards. The displacement inwards of the margin of the eyelid, will usually be found to have taken its rise in the following man- ner. During an attack of ophthalmia at- tended by a swollen or cedematous state of the eyelids, these being long kept closed or even spasmodically contracted, the edge, overbalanced by the puffy state of the orbital portion of the lid is pressed or turned inwards by the ciliary portion of the orbicularis muscle. A wrong direction having been thus acquired, it continues even after the subsidence of all swelling or oedema. The form of entropium just described, is most frequently met with in old persons. In persons, in whom the relaxed and super- abundant state of the integuments of the eye- lid does not exist, entropium may be pro- duced by the spasmodic contraction of the orbicularis muscle, during an acute attack of inflammation with intolerance of light, and a swollen state of the eyelids ; but it will cease on the subsidence of the ophthalmia, espe- cially if care be taken to keep the eyelid in its proper place by some mechanical contriv- ance. The most efficient and convenient contrivance for this purpose, is a bit of firm wire so twisted and bent, as to fit on the back of the head by its middle, and press by its rounded extremities against the orbital portion of the lower eyelids. Treatment.—This consists in the excision, or in the destruction by caustic of a portion of the relaxed integuments. Excision.—The portion of integument re- moved should be of an elliptical shape, and of such a breadth, that when the edges of the gap which is left are brought together, the eyelid will be retained in its proper position. Though the piece of integument ought to be removed from near the margin of the eyelid, a sufficient breadth of skin must still be left at the margin for the insertion of stitches. Fig. 242. To effect the removal of the piece of inte- gument in the form of an ellipse, a transverse fold, of a size sufficient to bring the eyelid into its proper place, is to be taken hold of with the entropium forceps (fig. 243,) and snipped off with a pair of strong scissors. After Fig. 243. the excision of the fold, the edges of the wound are to be brought together by two or three stitches. This excision of a transverse fold of in- tegument may in some cases be advantage- ously followed up by the excision of a ver- tical fold, as has been done by Dzondi. A mode of operation practised by Janson of Lyons consists in the excision of a ver- tical fold of skin alone, extending to near the free edge of the eye- lid. Velpeau recom- mends the orbital end of this vertical fold to be broader than the other. Cauterization.—The escharotic most com- monly used for this purpose is concen- trated sulphuric acid. By means of a pencil of wood, the acid is to be rubbed over an oval portion of the integuments of a length corresponding to the inversion, and about one quarter of an inch broad in the middle. Care must be taken to keep the acid at some distance—the