ANATOMY, MORBID. 198 to : amongst these the following may be enu- merated ; — Pott, Brodie, Lloyd, Goodlad, Syme, Blackburn, (in the Guy’s Hospital Re- ports,) Chopart and Carmichael. The next section comprises a very distinct and very interesting class of morbid struc- tures, which essentially consist in a new growth superadded to the parts in or upon that with which they are connected. It com- prises the following principal divisions:—non- malignant compound serous cysts ; cancer; the varieties of fungoid disease, viz., fungus medullaris, fungus haematodes, gum cancer, and melanosis. The characteristics of this section being dependant rather on structural arrangement than on the chemical or physical properties of the substance upon which the peculiar form is impressed, we shall find that some of these growths are analogous to those natural to the body, whilst others are heterologue, or differ- ing from them. The variety placed at the head of this class, and which, from the clear- ness with which its parts are distinguished, may be regarded as typical of the family, are of the first or analogous kind, whilst those which succeed comprehend all the most im- portant heterologue structures which the bodies of animals are liable to produce. In the infancy of the science of morbid anatomy, the terms employed to designate most of the affections comprised in this group were ex- tremely vague and very irregularly employed, every enlargement, in a part, might be called a tumour, and everything hard, scirrhus. It was an improvement in technical precision which recognised the family of malignant diseases, and distinguished them by the com- mon appellation of cancer. Further inquiries showed that further subdivisions were neces- sary, and it happened, somewhat remarkably, that the investigation of cancer was carried on almost simultaneously by different individuals both in this country and on the continent. Bayle, Laennec, and Cayol, in France, dis- tinguished encephaloid and melanotic tumours from the group of ordinary cancers ; Laennec also pointed out other forms of disease of this class, namely, gum cancer and cirrhosis. He likewise studied the anatomical character and progress of these affections, and noticed their generally rounded figure ; the cysts by which they are so generally invested ; their original softness or fluidity ; their subsequent consoli- dation ; and their ultimate softening com- mencing at their centres. He, moreover, in- sisted on their existence as new and adventi- tious structures in opposition to the opinion of some contemporary teachers, who held that they ought to be regarded as mere degenera- tions. In this country, the same subject was investigated by Abernethy, Langstaff, Ward- rop, and some others. Medullary carcinoma, spongoid inflammation, fungus hasmatodes, and fungoid disease, are the names employed by these authors to designate the most im- portant of these affections, cerebriform, or medullary cancer. Since the attention of the profession has been turned to this subject by the inquirers just enumerated, several other authors have treated of these derangements either generally, or as affecting particular parts. Amongst the works thus produced, I may be allowed to refer to that, little as it is, which I have had the satisfaction of contribut- ing to our knowledge of the anatomical cha- racter of this class of diseases. From the careful examination of a great number of these adventitious growths, from the most distinct to the most obscure, I have arrived at absolute conviction that they all depend on one essential mode of formation, which allies them to the compound serous and mucous cysts, which possess the greatest distinctness, and are, perhaps, of the most fre- quent occurrence in the ovaries and their neighbourhood. The numerous varieties of form and tex- ture which we meet with in this extensive group of morbid productions, may, when this key is obtained, be satisfactorily referred to certain modifications of the cystic character, to different proportions of the fluid and solid parts, and to the nature of the material to which this particular structure or arrange- ment is given. This remarkable form of adventitious pro- ductions is found in other classes of mamma- lia besides man, and has also been met with in birds. So general and marked a type points to the operation of some common laws dependant on the properties of the material so organ- ized '. The morbid appearances dependant on the existence of hydatids and other parasitical animals, require, for more reasons than one, to be placed in a distinct and separate class. In the first place, they are attended by phe- nomena peculiar to themselves; for whilst they exist as foreign substances in the texture of the body, they differ from every other foreign body so lodged, in possessing a proper life of their own, in virtue of which they increase in size, and sometimes acquire enor- mous dimensions, and consequently occasion progressive displacement and modification of the part in which they are lodged. The cir- cumstance of their possessing this independ- ent life, appears to be the cause of their producing little or no irritation of the parts in which they are lodged, during the early period of their existence : nevertheless, their death at a subsequent period occasions their undergoing those changes which may render them the cause of the most serious and fatal disturbance. Another circumstance which renders it important to give separate and dis- tinct attention to this class of morbid pro- ductions, is the possibility of confounding them with phenomena belonging to the two last mentioned classes, a palpable error into which some noted pathologists have actually fallen. 1 See Lectures on the morbid anatomy of the serous and mucous membranes, vol. i.