CONGELATION. 815) vascular action. Another difference is, that we never have, as an effect of cold, the com- plete disorganization which we often see pro- duced by intense heat, which chars the soft tissues of the body, or resolves them into their gaseous elements. With these differences it may be affirmed without any paradox that the local effects of intense heat and of intense cold acting upon the human body, are the very same. In the simplest cases of injury from cold the stage of torpor is succeeded by a sensation of pricking and tingling in the affected part, which soon becomes accompanied with shoot- ing pain, tumefaction, throbbing, and obscure redness. In more severe cases the skin ac- quires the permanent red colour of inflamma- tion ; serum is effused from its surface, and the cuticle is elevated in vesications. If the vesications contain a limpid fluid, there is less danger to be apprehended than when the fluid is dark-coloured and sanguinolent. In cases of the latter description the inflammation very often terminates in gangrene and mortification. It sometimes happens that the mortification is confined to the skin, which always suffers more from cold than the deep-seated parts. Thus the greater part of the skin covering the foot has been observed to slough away, leaving the parts underneath in the full possession of their vitality. In cases of more severe injury the sphacelation is not confined to the integu- ments, but pervades the whole tissues of the limb. Extensive ulceration often occurs in the seat of the vesications, or in the parts from which the sloughs have been discharged. The only other symptom which remains to be described, is one which occurs only in the worst cases, and which is not like those hitherto mentioned, dependent on an over- excited state of the vascular system. On the contrary, it depends on no reaction ever taking place in the congealed part, which is struck primarily with mortification, passing at once from the state of suspended animation to that of actual death. In the treatment of con- gealed parts it is always considered a good sign when pain and throbbing begin to be felt in them, and always on the contrary, a very bad sign when no sensation of pain or other uneasiness is perceived. In the latter circum- stances it is to be apprehended that the con- gealed part has been struck with primary mor- tification, in which case the functions of the nervous and vascular systems, which the cold had suspended, never return, and the part in consequence continues devoid of all sensation and vital action, while the parts in the imme- diate neighbourhood are in a state of violent inflammation. In certain cases of comparatively rare oc- currence, the symptoms of re-action induced by cold occur immediately upon the applica- tion of the exciting cause, without the inter- vention of any primary stage of torpor. Such for instance, are the effects of applying to the unprotected skin a solid body at a very low temperature, and more especially a metal or other substance possessing in an eminent de- gree the power of conducting heat. At the moment of contact a severe burning pain is felt, and an immediate reaction ensues, the skin being blistered just as from scalding with boiling water. Captain Parry, during his residence in the neighbourhood of Melville Island, observed this effect to take place when the thermometer stood at — 24° of Fahren- heit’s thermometer, and it must of course have been much more remarkable when the tem- perature afterwards fell to — 55°. “ It nowr,” says Captain Parry, “ became rather a painful experiment to touch any metallic substance in the open air with the naked hand. The feeling produced by it exactly resembling that occasioned by the opposite extreme of intense heat, and taking off the skin from the part affected.” (Parry’s Voyages, vol. i. p. 212.) In the same manner the French Academicians relate that during their winter residence at Tornea in Sweden, the application of a glass to the lips in the act of drinking always brought away blood, owing to the sudden cold taking off the skin. In our own country the temperature of solid bodies never sinks so low from the mere in- fluence of atmospheric cold as to produce the irritant effects just described ; but we can pro- duce by artificial means a still greater degree of cold than was observed by Captain Parry. The effects upon the tissues of living animals of the most intense cold w hich our frigorific mixtures can produce, have not been investi- gated, but we are pretty well acquainted with the effects of frozen mercury, which must have at least a degree of cold equal to — 39° F. the temperature at which mercury congeals. On laying hold of the frozen mass a sensation of burning is immediately produced, and we are instantly compelled to toss the metal from one hand to the other, with the very same gesticulations as if we were handling a red- hot ember. Pellitan, by allowing the mercury to remain too long upon the same part of his hand, had an intolerable sense of burning pro- duced, followed by inflammation. Last winter we proposed to avail ourselves of the local effects of cold, by employing it as a therapeutic agent, and had given the necessary directions for applying frozen mercury as a counter- irritant in a case of diseased hip-joint, at that time under treatment in the Glasgow In- firmary, but a sudden thaw prevented the experiment. Taking advantage of a few very cold days, attended w’ith a fall of snow, which occurred at the end of October (1836), we had the experiment made upon a patient, likewise affected with morbus coxarius, and under the care of one of our colleagues who politely consented to the trial. Instead of using mercury, which would have been incon- venient from its melting during the operation, we employed a cylinder of iron, about eight inches in length and an inch and a half in dia- meter. This cylinder was in the first place cooled down to zero of Fahrenheit, by bury- ing it in a mixture of salt and snow, and it was 3 G 2