CANCER, ANATOMY OF. 597 Multilocular cysts, as observed in the ovary and mamma, frequently contain in some part of their walls encephaloid vegetations, or masses. Certain adventitious structures have been declared incapable of becoming the seat of carcinoma. Bayle and Lobstein affirm that fibrous tumours are thus characterized: Du- puytren formally denies the correctness of their opinion. See Fibrous Tumours. The number of parts affected in one subject varies very considerably: though it is com- paratively rare to find this species of cancer limited to a single organ, more especially if the disease have been in existence for any length of time before death, yet such occur- rence is by no means unestablished by ex- perience. In other cases a vast number of organs, and in every conceivable variety of combination, are found to be the seat of the disease. M. Velpeau’s celebrated case sup- plies the most marked illustration of multiple development with which we are acquainted : in this instance the common cellular mem- brane, the muscles and bones, the lungs and heart, the tissue between the costal pleura and ribs, the stomach, duodenum, and small intes- tines, the pancreas, kidneys, liver, vena cava, and coats of the gall-bladder, the peritonaeum, dura mater, and the thyroid gland, were all in various degrees affected with the disease. Varieties.—Under the title of common vas- cular sarcoma, Abernethy included “ such tumours as are organized throughout, but with- out any distinguishable peculiarity of struc- ture.” The description given of these tumours is vague enough, yet sufficiently clear to show that lobulated encephaloid,firm and unsoftened, was probably the structure which our great surgeon had in view. The tumour designated by the same ob- server, as mastoid or mammary sarcoma, is still more difficult of identification ; Dr. Carswell however, considers the term to refer to cases in which the carcinomatous substance is uni- formly disseminated through the texture of an organ. M. Recamier gives the names of solanoid and nephroid to hard, scarcely elastic encepha- loid, possessing the appearance of a section of a potato or the kidney. The justness of this comparison may frequently be seen'. When the fibrous intersections are distinct, broad and fascicular, the divided mass has more the appearance of a cut turnip, and is therefore called napiform by this pathologist. This lat- ter condition is, however, much more frequent in true fibrous tumours. Under the name of carcinoma fasciculatum vcl hyalinum, Miiller describes that rare form of encephaloid in which a fibrous or linear arrangement coexists with softness. Tumours of this description tear in the direction of the 1 Tumours of the solanoid description have sometimes a fatty unctuous look on division and are almost per- fectly homogeneous, (neither fibre nor vessel being usually visiblo with the naked eye,) and of light yellowish colour. fibres; in this differing from common encepha- loid. They are frequently, nevertheless, lobu- lated externally and internally, and are some- times transparent like jelly. The fibres follow no fixed arrangement; they are usually pale and transparent, whence the term hyalinus, vitreous. This is not a constant character however. Examined under the microscope, this growth presents neither the cell-globules of the other sorts of carcinoma, nor the cau- date corpuscules of apparently fibrous ence- phaloid. From the transparency of the fibres under the instrument, they require to be examined in deep shadow ; their surface is studded with granules. The character of the fibre is seen in PI. I. Fig. 8. It is probable, according to Muller, that this variety is nothing more than carcinoma reticulare (a form of scirrhus to be presently described) in a soft condition. It seems allied to the nephroid cancer of Recamier. There are two conditions under which the relation of the encephaloid matter to its ves- sels or their contents is productive of appear- ances which have led to the application of particular names to the disease. 1. When interstitial haemorrhage leads to sanguineous infiltration of the mass or irregular accumu- lations of blood, and when, especially after ulceration of the integuments, a rapid develop- ment of fungating growths takes place from its substance, the disease, in imitation of one of its earliest describers, Hey, is termed fungus hacmatodes. The circumstances under which this name is applicable are, however, merely fortuitous, and do not imply any fundamental "distinction in the nature of the growth ex- hibiting them. If (inasmuch as the changes to which it refers materially affect the local and general pathological influence of the mor- bid formation) this name be retained for prac- tical purposes, it should be strictly limited to the disease when in the state described : as a general term for the species, it is strongly ob- jectionable ; nor, strictly speaking, can fungus haematodes be considered a variety. 2. This term has also been applied in cases where an abundant vascular and erectile rete forms a striking constituent of the growth (Dupuy- tren); but this state is by some designated as hcematode cancer. (6.) Scirrhus. (From oicippoq, which from tTKipoq, a piece of marble.) Galen used the term scirrhus as a synonym of aicXt/pio/ia, hardness ; and it appears to have been applied by him and his successors to all tumours possessing this character. At an early period, however, it was limited to diseased induration, of which the essential peculiarity is to terminate in in- tractable ulceration. It is hardly necessary to add, that it is here used in the latter accep- tation 1 In this sense we also use the adjective scirrhous. Probably the mal-applicatiou of no single word has led to more serious conf usion than of this adjective, which is by many writers applied indiscriminately to all hard structures, though they rigidly confine their use of the substantive to a particular form of carcinoma.