DELIVERANCE. 870 inon, of Leyden, argues, from a case of his own, that where the uterus contracts so firmly as to exclude the access of air, putrefaction and all dangerous symptoms are obviated. Dr. Villeneuve, of Marseilles, has collected eight cases, including those of Naegele, in which it was found impossible to remove the whole of the placenta by the hand. In two the adhesion was complete, the placenta not being at all separated from the uterus; in none of the cases was any portion of the pla- centa expelled with the lochia. In the two where the adhesion was general, the haemor- rhage was very trifling, the lochial discharge scanty, and there was no constitutional dis- turbance. Dr. Rigby also relates a case where at least one third of the placenta was left behind, yet “ there was no foetor of the lochia, which throughout were sparing: it was also ascertained, beyond all doubt, that no solid substance had passed 1.” Cases of abortion have been occasionally observed, the foetus coming away, the placenta and membranes being retained, no trace of them being after- wards observed ; yet the catamenia have re- turned, and the patient borne other children without any peculiar circumstance. Desor- meaux gives a case of this kind, where the placenta of an abortion came away with that of a subsequent conception a year afterwards. Then, as to the danger of attempts at removal, Smellie records two cases, in one of which he brought away the adherent placenta, but the woman died of haemorrhage ; in the second, he left the adhering portions, and the woman recovered. M. de Saint-Amand gives a case where death ensued from gangrenous inflam- mation of the uterus, following long-continued endeavours at separation. Roederer also speaks of a woman who died of haemorrhage, after forcible deliverance, where the internal sur- face of the uterus was broken up, and the fleshy fibres exposed to a great extent. Hal- ler and Sandifort mention similar circum- stances. Some of these cases prove incontestibly that the placenta may be absorbed without evil consequences to the mother ; but when it is argued from them that artificial separation of an adherent placenta is both dangerous and useless,—dangerous, because the uterus may be injured, and useless, because the adhering portions will be absorbed without augmenting the danger of the case,—they are forced to a construction they will by no means bear : for one of the cases cited by Dr. Villeneuve died with putrid discharge and typhoid symptoms ; and four others suffered from considerable constitutional disturbance and uterine inflam- mation. In one of Naegele’s cases, where about a third of the placenta was left, intense fever and violent cephalalgia followed ; and, in a case of Salomon’s, though the person ulti- mately recovered, there was low fever, abdo- minal pain, abundant perspirations, fetid lochia, vomiting, tympanitis, and emaciation. The 1 Medical Gazette, vol. xiv. p. 333. danger of leaving retained placentae in the uterus is strongly exemplified in the reports of Dr. Lee, published in the twenty-fourth volume of the Medical Gazette : for, of twenty cases, seven were fatal; and, in the other thirteen, more or less difficulty or danger ensued from portions or the entire mass of the placenta being left beyond the usual pe- riod. Burns relates a fatal case where the surface morbidly adherent was not larger than a shilling. There is a case in Rust’s Maga- zine for 1831, which, while it tends to prove the possibility of absorption of the placenta, also shows the danger accruing to the mother during the process. The adhesion of the pla- centa was so perfect that it was found impos- sible to detach it, and it was therefore left. Severe fever followed by an eruption of pem- phigas over the body, extreme weakness, fre- quent faintings, scarcely perceptible pulse, cold shiverings alternating with flushings, and great foetor of the breath. The patient was in an almost comatose state, the lochia sparing and exceedingly loathsome. She remained in this state about a fortnight, and then began to recover. The catamenia re-appeared ten weeks after delivery ; but neither in them nor in the lochia was there the slightest percepti- ble trace of placenta, and the uterus regained its normal size and form. Madame Boivin is of opinion, that the first case of Naegele is open to suspicion, as the female was not attended by himself, and he was only informed of it by a midwife ; andshe further believes that his other cases, and that of Dr. Salomon, were merely instances similar to some she has herself recorded, of abnormal conformation of the placenta, in which the office of this mass is performed by mere vas- cular ramifications. But Salomon distinctly states, that, in his case, the placenta wras felt in the uterus, and two small pieces were removed. If we admit, therefore, the presence of the placenta, absorption is the only suppo- sition on which its removal can be accounted for: as the lochia have been sparing, the uterus has regained its original size ; and the notion of rupture of the uterus and escape of the placenta into the abdominal cavity cannot, be reconciled W'ith the symptoms observed in any of the cases. Besides, absorption of the pla- centa is not without analogy in the animal kingdom : for Bartholinus1 says, he has pre- served in his museum a great part of the body of a calf, found in the uterus of a cow, in whom the signs of pregnancy had disappeared before the termination of the usual period of gestation, and many of the soft parts of the calf had been absorbed. Huzard 2 also quotes some very remarkable cases of this kind, where cows were killed, and their uteri con- tained only the bones of calves, all the soft parts having been absorbed. Carus says, he has seen a similar case of absorption of the soft parts of a foetal sheep, preserved in the 1 De Insolitis Partus Humani Viis, cap. v. p. 37. 2 Memoires de l’Institut National des Sciences et Arts, t. ii.