796 CLUB-HAND. “My patient then left town for a few weeks, and having returned early in November, the achilles tendon was divided on the 6th. Per- fect extension of the foot was maintained by a splint along its dorsal surface, and on the 10th adhesion of the divided ends of the ten- don having already taken place, the extend- ing instrument was applied. On the 21st the foot was brought up to a less angle than a right angle with the leg, the sole being well applied to the ground, and he began to bear the weight of the body upon it. He con- tinued to exercise the limb daily, and on Dec, 16, walked about a quarter of a mile with me. Notwithstanding the limp in his gait arising from the state of the right leg, he is now able to walk a distance of two miles without fa- tigue.” Fig. 182. Fig. 182 is a drawing of the foot taken in January, 1839, and showing its improved condition, within two months of the second operation. In a case of varus subsequently undertaken, I was induced, at the desire of the patient and his friends, to divide the tendon of the tibialis posticus and achillis tendon at one operation, in order to save time. The con- sequence was, that it afterwards became ne- cessary to divide the tendo achillis a second time, before the full extension of the heel could be obtained. In another case, where the plantar aponeurosis was contracted in an extreme degree in both feet, I attempted to effect a cure in one of them, which was less distorted than the other, by the division of the aponeurosis alone. Considerable improve- ment followed this limited operation, but sec- tion of the tendon of the flexor longus pol- licis was required before the inversion could be entirely overcome. The reader will find a valuable mass of prac- tical information, and an ample elucidation of the difficulties occasionally experienced in the treatment of talipes by operation, in the cases detailed by Dr. Little. To the labours of Stromeyer, then, we are indebted for the establishment of this safe, speedy, and tolerably certain cure of deformi- ties dependent on irregular muscular action. It is no detraction from the merits of the treatment, that many of the cases which have been cured by section of tendons might have been treated with equal ultimate success by plaster of Paris, or by certain of the machines recommended for the purpose. In the one case, from one to two months will suffice to rectify the distortion, and place the patient fairly on his feet; w'hereas, by the best con- ducted mechanical procedure, the treatment is prolonged to a period of many months, and often disappoints the expectations of the patient. Nevertheless, as the mechanical treatment forms a most essential part of the new practice, the same principles being merely applied under more favourable circumstances, the attention and ingenuity of the surgeon may be still advantageously directed to the improvement of those machines by which alone, in some few instances, the cure must still be attempted, and which, in by far the majority of cases, become important auxiliaries in the after-treatment. Bibliography.—Hippocrates, Lib. de Articulis, sect. vi. Blumenbach, Geschichte und Beschreibung der Knochen des menschlichen Korpers. Gotting. 1786. B. Belt, A System of Surgery, vol. vi. 1788. Thilenius, Mcdicinische und chirurgische Bemerkun- gen, 1789. Wanzel, Dissertatio inauguralis medica de Talipedibus Vans. Tubingen, 1798. Bruckner. Ueber die Natur, Ursachen und Behandlung der einwarts gekiiimmten Fusse. Gotha, 1796. Scarpa, Mcmoria chirurgica sui Piedi Torti. Pavia, 1803. Jorg, Ueber Klumpfusse. Leipzig, 1806. Michalis, Ueber die Schwachung der Sehnen durch Einschneidung. Hufe- land und Himly’s Journal, 1811, stuck S. Codes, Dublin Hospitai Reports, vol. i. Mackeever, Edin. Med. Journ. vol. xvi. 1820. Palletta, Excrcilationes Pathologic*, 1820. Delpech, Chirnrgie clinique de Montpelier, 1823, Delpech, De l’Orthomorphie, 1829. Cruveilliier, Anat. Patholog. livr. 11. 1830. Lob, Dissertatio inauguralis de Talipedibus Varis. Bonn, 1830. Tourtual, Zweiter anatomischer Bericht, 1832. Rudolphi, Physiologie, 6tes buch. Stromeyer, Ueber Paralyse der Inspirations-Muskeln, 1836. Stromeyer, Beitrage zur operativen Orthopadik, 1838. Stromeyer, in Schmidt’s Jahrbiicher fur die gesammte Medicin, Jahrgang 1840, no. iv. heft 1. Whipple, Medical Gazette, vol. xx. 1836. J. W. Little, M.D. Disser- tatio inauguralis, Symbol* ad Talipedcm Varum cog- noscendum. Berol. 1837. •/. W. Little, M.D. Trea- tise on Club-foot and analogous distortions, 1839. Zeis, Handbuch der plastischen Chirurgie, 19te Ab- theilung. Berl. 1838. Bouvier, Mem. sur la section du tendon d’Achille dans lc traitement des Pieds- bot8, Mem. de l’Acad. de Medecine, t. vii. Paris, 1838. Dural, Revue Medicale, 1838. Diefenbach, Ueber die Durchschneidung der Sehnen und Muskeln. Berlin, 1831. CLUB-HAND, as already stated, is a deformity precisely analogous to talipes. Its nature and causes are the same, the only dif- ference being in the seat of the affection. The distortion ordinarily observed consists of a retraction and inversion of the thumb and fingers in a manner corresponding with the change of position the foot undergoes in va- rus. This is the effect of irregular contrac- tion of the flexores digitorum, which may be the result of a preternatural action excited in them, or the consequence of paralysis of the antagonist muscles. As the nature and causes of club- foot and club-hand are similar, so also