17 EAR, AND HEARING, DISEASES OF. ing the membrana tympani. As to obliteration of the Eustachian, it is to be remarked with Itard 1 and Kramer, that the disease which has produced such an effect will be found to have materially injured other parts of the ear. Congenital imperforation of the Eustachian tube has been mentioned as a condition re- quiring perforation of the membrana tympani. Sir Astley Cooper, indeed, relates an alleged case of this, combined with cleft palate, in which he performed the operation. It may be sufficient to remark with Dr. Lincke2, that congenital closure or absence of the Eusta- chian tube has not hitherto been observed, although Saissy, Beck, and other authors, speak of it with considerable confidence. Be- sides, it were to be inferred from the mode of development of the part, that absence of the Eustachian tube would be necessarily at- tended by non-development of the tympanum, though not contrariwise. Absence of the Eustachian tube, and the consequent absence of the cavity of the tympanum, have, in fact, been found only in foetuses, in other respects monstrous. As to the case of Mr. Round, related by Sir Astley Cooper, it is of the same nature as those described by Dieffenbach of Berlin3, and by Deleau of Paris4. The Eustachian tubes did open into the throat, but deafness was caused, according to Dieffen- bach, by the lips of the guttural orifice of the Eustachian tube being so relaxed, in conse- quence of the fissure of the palate, that they lay upon each other and hindered the free en- trance of air into the tympanum. He always found staphyloraphy, successfully performed, remove the deafness. Perhaps the causes to which Deleau attributes the deafness in such persons, viz. a dryness, and almost always a chronic inflammation of the mucous mem- brane of the throat, extending to the middle ear, may have cooperated with that men- tioned by Dieffenbach. Accumulation of blood and other matters in the cavity of the tympanum.—There can be no doubt as to the propriety of puncturing the membrana tympani, when such an accumula- tion is so considerable as to be evident from the protrusion of the membrana tympani to- wards the auditory passage ; but it would be obviously improper to puncture on the sus- picion merely that accumulation might exist, especially as in catheterism and injection of the Eustachian tube, is possessed a means both of diagnosis and treatment of such a state. A thickened and hardened state of the mem- brana tympani, unaccompanied by any other disease of the ear, is the only condition, in the opinion of Kramer, which really indicates the operation ; but, as is remarked by Itard5, 1 Memoires de 1’Academic Royale de Medecine, tome v. p. 535. Paris, 1836'. 2 Das Gehororgan, p. 640. 3 Ucbcr einc bis jetzt nicht erkannte Ursache dor Taubheit, in his Chirurgische Erfahrungen, dritte und vierte Sammlung, 205, pp. 261, 262. Berlin, 1834. 4 Recherches Pratiques sur les Maladies de l’Oreille, &r. p. 44. Paris, 1838. 5 Op. et lor. cit. VOL. II. such an uncomplicated state cannot be re- garded as a sufficient cause of such a degree of deafness as to require perforation, and in cases in which thickening of the membrana tympani is accompanied by deafness, he feels justified in concluding that the operation would be useless, as the principal cause of the deafness is elsewhere than in the membrane. All the preceding objections to the opera- tion of perforating the membrana tympani may be met by a reference to the cases on record, in which improvement in hearing was effected by it. To this it is to be replied, that in most of the cases in which the Eusta- chian tube was alleged to have been obstruct- ed, it had not been unequivocally ascertained to have been so, at least to have been invin- cibly closed, and therefore incapable of being rendered pervious by catheterism, which, moreover, inefficient as it too often is in pro- ducing much or permanent good, would at least have done as much in the same cases as the operation under consideration. To the above add the result of M. Itard’s experience of the operation as a remedy for deafness. “ Nothing is more rare,” says he ’, “ than a cure of deafness by perforation of the mem- brana tympani.” When M. Itard published his work in 1821, he had tried perforation in a great number of favourable cases, but could report one only (a case of simple thickening of the membrana tympani) which proved successful, and that he afterwards learned was followed by relapse. In thirteen cases of impermeability of the Eustachian tube in which he performed the operation since, he obtained no advantageous or permanent result. He, however, still al- lows that perforation may be useful to facili- tate the introduction of medicated injections into the ear ; but considered in itself, and as merely opening an entrance for the atmosphe- rical air, he thinks the operation will lead only to disappointment. Sir Astley Cooper performed the operation with a small trochar, but as an opening made by puncture merely was found readily to close again, theory suggested the complete removal of a piece of the membrane. For this pur- pose several ingenious but complicated instru- ments have been invented, which it is enough simply to name here, referring for an account of them to the works where they are de- scribed : Himly’s2 punch ; the modification of it by Fabbrizi3; the remodification of the latter by Mazzoni 4, and the perforator of Deleaus. 1 Op. cit. loc. cit. 2 Chir. Kupfertafel. 14. Hft. t. 65, fig. 10. 3 Memoria sopra un nuovo processo <Ti practicare la perforazione della membr. del timpano. Li vorno, 1827. 4 Di una soidita congenita guarita dal professore Gio. Battista Mazzoni, Chirurgo di camera delle LL. AA. JJ. e RR. il Granduca e la Granduchessa di Toscana, &o. e di un nuovo istrumento per traforare la membrana del timpano. Memoria di Pietro Van- noni, di Ini sostiluto operatore nella clinica ehirurgica dell’ I. E. R. spedale di S. Giovanni di Dio di Firenze. Firenze, 1830. 8. 5 Description d’un instrument pour retablir l'ouie.