868 DELIVERANCE. The placenta being removed, and uterine contraction induced, the patient must be most carefully watched, and pressure kept up on the abdomen at first by the hand, and after- wards by compress and bandage, as there is every reason to fear a new relaxation of the organ, with further flooding. The placenta must be carefully examined to see that it has all come away, for if any portion be left, though the uterus may contract powerfully, still, as it is prevented by its contents from thoroughly closing its cavity, haemorrhage may go on. After perfect expulsion, also a trickling of blood may continue, from the presence of coagula, which operate in the same manner. The treatment in either case is simple. If any considerable portion of pla- centa remain, the hand must be introduced for its removal, but one or two fingers will generally suffice in case of coagula, as the irritation of the cervix, and motion of the clots excites the uterus to contract, empty it- self and thereby prevent further effusion. In some cases we can only succeed in inducing temporary contraction, relaxation obstinately recurring, with fresh haemorrhage and in- creased danger. Dr. Rigby states that no- thing so certainly produces permanent con- traction, under these circumstances, as the ap- plication of the child to the mother’s breast, and as there can be no harm in the applica- tion, it should not be neglected. In all these varieties of cases we must most carefully guard against the occurrence of in- ternal hapmorrhage, by keeping up an effective pressure upon the uterus. The patient must also be kept a considerable time in the hori- zontal posture, to maintain the cerebral circu- lation, and obviate the tendency to syncope. After a time a dose of opium may be given to allay irritability, with stimulants, according to circumstances. The room must be darkened and well ventilated, the patient being kept for a short time on milk diet with a little wine, and afterwards allowed wine with jellies, and quinine with aromatics. The symptoms we may have to treat are cephalalgia, meteorism, tinnitus aurium, perspirations, faintings, oede- ma, and hectic. They all depend on the state of anaemia, and therefore can only be perma- nently removed by time, nutritious diet, and tonics, but they may be all palliated for a time by simple means. I have found the peculiar throbbing headach, so common in these cases, best relieved by the following lotion applied over the forehead several times daily. It rarely remains on more than ten minutes without affording marked relief: ljL Sodii chloridi 3iii ; liquoris ammoniae Ji; spiritus camphorae 3ii ; aquae fontis 3*x ; Solve, et misce. The meteorism is generally relieved by an enema of turpentine, or assa- faetida; the perspirations and faintishness by ammonia effervescing with lemon-juice, with or without a small quantity of tincture of hen- bane. Quinine will generally be required, especially where there are febrile remissions, and a moderate dose of opium may be given at night. Where the oedema persists, after the disappearance of other symptoms, it will soon yield to small doses of digitalis, in com- bination with the muriated tincture of iron. II. Retention, from irregular contraction of the muscular fibres of the uterus (placenta cha- tonne, enchatonne, enkyste of the French wri- ters ; hemie de Parriere-faix of Solingen) is most frequently observed in labours which occur two or three weeks before the usual period; in women of great nervous excitability ; in cases where the uterus has been very rapidly emp- tied, and the removal of the placenta has been early attempted by rude pulling at the funis. Under any of these circumstances the uterine contraction, instead of regularly progressing from the fundus downwards, takes place irregularly, some of the fibres remain relaxed, or less contracted than others. This condition was first noticed by Ambrose Pare and Guillemeau, afterwards by Mauriceau and most other writers on midwifery. Levret says that the parts of the uterus to which the placenta is attached, remain in a state of in- ertness, while all other parts of the organ con- tract with more or less force. Baudelocque supposed that the band of fibres forming the os uteri internum are more stretched during labor than any other part, and are therefore more disposed to contract. Leroux and Koch considered that the surface of the uterus is abraded in some points, the nervous fibrils exposed, and being more strongly irritated at these points than at others, excite irregular contraction. When the fibres of the body of the uterus alone act, those of the fundus and cervix re- maining uncontracted, we have what is called the hour-glass contraction, but this is much less frequently met with in practice than one would be led to suppose from the writings of some authors. The fact is, there is no part of the uterus where we may not meet with the constriction which divides the cavity of the uterus into two pouches. It is very rarely that there are more than two, but Velpeau says, that in one case he found three, and in another five. Under any of these conditions the placenta is wholly or partially behind the constricted portion, and is thus prevented from descending. When part is in the upper and part in the lower chamber, the mark of the constricted portion is very evident on the placenta after its expulsion. The signs of this state are powerful after- pains, w'ith turgidity of the vessels of the cord, while the placenta remains beyond the reach of the finger. The uterus is felt hard, and of some volume, through the abdomen, and may sometimes be felt clearly divided into two portions. If any separation of the pla- centa has taken place, there will be haemor- rhage, which is usually observed, though not often to great extent. On passing the hand into the uterus, the nature of the case is at once made evident by the presence of the constriction. The difficulty of the case will vary with