291 FRACTURE. follow the case with close attention to the end ; with the assurance, that a dozen cases so observed will afford him a steadier light, a more heart-satisfying support for his judg- ment, when he comes to occupy the post of responsibility himself, than he could derive from the most profound study of all the general precepts on the subject that have ever been penned. The following case is one of the kind I allude to. William Byrne, aged 23, a remarkably healthy and muscular countryman, was ad- mitted into the Richmond hospital, on the evening of Nov. 5, 1839, with an open frac- ture of the right femur. The accident had happened early in the morning, and he had been conveyed to Dublin, a distance of nearly twenty miles, on a cart, with the limb pro- tected, in some degree, with splints put on by a surgeon who had seen him immediately after the accident. The fracture had been caused by the patient’s thigh being caught between the spokes of the horizontal wheel of a threshing machine in full motion, while his foot was confined between two upright posts united above and below, that formed the axle of the machine. At the time of his admission into hospital he was suffering severe pain, his pulse was 68, his complexion was pretty good, but his feet were cold. On re- moving the splints and dressing, the whole thigh was found greatly swelled ; a transverse wound, with surprisingly little raggedness or contusion, occupied more than half the cir- cumference of the limb, at about three inches above the patella ; which extensive rent had been produced by the violent protrusion of the upper fragment of the femur. The fin- ger discovered a fracture, without splinters, a little higher than the superficial laceration ; and, on examining the wound below, it was found that the capsule of the knee-joint was torn in two places. On the outside of the patella two fingers could be passed, between the inferior fragment and muscles, into the joint, which contained blood and air; and on the inside of the patella there was a rent in the synovial capsule capable of admitting one finger. But little blood had been lost. The anterior and posterior tibial arteries could be felt at the instep and heel, and the leg retained its sensi- bility. In consultation with my colleagues in the hospital, Mr. Carmichael, Dr. Hutton, Dr. O’Beirne, and Mr. Adams, immediate amputation was decided upon, and per- formed. Some circumstances worthy of note occurred during the operation. When I first divided the fascia lata, the subjacent muscle burst through the opening like a hernia ; a very large quantity of venous blood, with which the muscles were gorged, fell when they were divided ; and it was with difficulty that the great mass they formed could be drawn up by the retractor, so as to enable me to saw the bone at a point sufficiently high. Two arteries only required ligature. For a fortnight after the operation the condition of the patient was very precarious. Not more than a third of the wound healed by the first intention, and the rest, for ten or twelve days, furnished a copious discharge of foetid matter mixed with blood. The fortitude and resigna- tion under his severe misfortune, which he had hitherto exhibited in a remarkable degree, now forsook him, and he became peevish. The con- stitutional disturbance and fever were consi- derable, and for the first three or four days he was greatly distressed by a sense of precor- dial anxiety. He got hardly any rest without opiates, and the stump became so tender, that the dressing of it, conducted with the utmost gentleness, caused him severe suffering. He lost flesh rapidly, and became very weak. At first he had frequent startings of the stump, and on two or three occasions, in the first week, he had retention of urine. On the thirteenth day one of the ligatures came away, and about the same time he began steadily to amend. One abscess only of inconsiderable size formed, which opened into the wound, and was obliterated with little difficulty, by the pressure of a compress placed over it under the bandage. From this time he had a slow but steady recovery, and on Feb. 11, 1840, he was discharged cured, having com- pletely regained his strength, flesh, and spi- rits, and being in the enjoyment of excellent general health. We cannot assert that if this young man had refused to submit to am- putation, he would certainly have forfeited his life ; but the history of the case after amputation, and the danger he was in, under circumstances so much more favourable to recovery than would have attended his re- fusal to undergo the operation, leave no doubt that his recovery in that case could hardly have taken place but by some rare hair- breadth escape, through severe and prolonged sufferings, with a damaged constitution, and the loss of the knee-joint. When a fracture has been the result of gun- shot violence, it is a generally admitted prin- ciple, that immediate amputation is necessary, though the injury be apparently less than that which justifies this extreme measure in a frac- ture from another cause. This rule of military surgery used to be spoken of, by practitioners in civil life, as cruel—a word which, employed on such an occasion by the public, ignorant and prejudiced with respect to our motives, may be excused ; but which,in the mouth, or from the pen of a surgeon, is libellous of his profession, and absurd. An individual surgeon may be heartless and cruel; but who ever heard or dreamt of a rule of practice in surgery, adopted by any part of the profession, being established on any other ground than this,—that it afforded the best means of preserving the life or limb of the patient, or that it substituted less for greater suffering, or in some other way secu- red his real interests ? In short, the rule is always based upon a true and enlightened benevolence. It may be ill-founded in sci- ence ; cruel it cannot be. The rule of mili- tary surgery alluded to, formed by men of the u 2