AMAUROSIS. 99 The causes of this irregular vascular action are so numerous and various, that there must necessarily be some modifications of the symp- toms. Most frequently the irregularity of circula- tion is sympathetic with gastric, hepatic, or intestinal disturbance, as in ordinary dyspep- sia, or when the stomach is disordered by im- proper diet, or by the influence of particular food, or by some poisons. Again, intestinal irritation from worms or scybala will produce a like effect. With the gastric or hepatic disorder there will probably be loss of appetite, nausea, un- easiness, tenderness at the epigastrium, with sallowness or yellow aspect, and depression of mental and bodily activity. With the intestinal irritation there will usually be found irregular state of bowels ; occasional nausea ; some abdominal uneasiness or tenderness, with restlessness; mental irri- tability, and disturbed sleep, with horrid or distressing dreams, and sometimes fever. In many instances, however, when there exists gastric or intestinal irritation, the evi- dences of such mischief are so trifling that it is often overlooked, and the cases are re- garded entirely as cerebral; and improper treatment is consequently adopted and per- sisted in. Some remarkable modifications of amaurosis exist, which I consider as properly belonging to this division; because in many instances the symptoms of gastric irritation are well marked; and further, in consequence of the disease being relieved by remedies appropriate to gastric disturbance. , The modifications which I allude to are the marked intermittent varieties of amaurotic disease, sometimes irregular, but most fre- quently with regular periods of duration and intermission. The most common of these varieties of the disease is that in which the patient has the vision obscured at sunset, and becomes re- lieved of the obscurity at sunrise ; usually the patient loses the perception of objects of moderate size, but occasionally retains only perception of light during the attack. From the patient being able to see during the day, the disease has been termed Hemeralopia, from rj/ispa, day, and onropai, to see. Hemeralopia is exceedingly common both in the East and West Indies, and especially attacks the crews of vessels stationed off cer- tain parts of the coasts or islands. It is most prevalent during the fruit season, and has fre- quently (I think with much propriety) been ascribed to imprudent indulgence in this tempting article of food, which produces gas- tric or intestinal derangement. It is attributed, by the sailors, to the influ- ence of the moon, believing that it is produced by the moonbeams falling on the eyes, if they imprudently sleep exposed to them ; hence the disease is by sailors called moon-blind- ness. The attacks of blindness generally occur every night, but 1 have heard of variations in the periods of relief, so that the disease has put on a tertian or quartan form, like ordinary intermittent fever: only one case of such variety has come under my observation and care; then the amaurosis occurred every second evening, or assumed a tertian form. Occasionally the amaurotic symptoms take place at sunrise, and disappear at sunset; this variety is very rare, and has been denominated Nyctalopia, from vi>£, night, and owropai, to see, as the patient has visual power during the night. The variety of the disease, which results from the influence of some poisons on the stomach or alimentary canal, presents modifi- cations of symptoms according to the quality and quantity of the poisonous matter intro- duced into the stomach, which I have not space to describe. Treatment.—In the ordinary cases of gastric and hepatic derangement, attention to the secretions, and strictly regulated diet and exercise, form the principles of treatment ; the subject is, however, much too extensive for me to endeavour to explain further in the present article. Amaurosis from gastric and hepatic irrita- tion is most frequent in persons about the middle period of life, but it is not rare in those more advanced in age. Disturbance of cerebral circulation, with amaurosis from intestinal irritation by worms or scybala, is, on the contrary, rare in adults, and frequent in children or young persons. The former usually occasion nasal and anal irritation, and frequently inordinate appetite ; whilst the latter produce nausea, loss of appetite, and much general restlessness. In children between the first period of den- tition and the time of puberty, these are the most frequent cases of amaurotic affection. To remove ascarides or lumbricales, I know of no remedy so efficacious as calomel and scammony, or mercury, with some drastic matter ; and a careful avoidance of green ve- getables, fruits, &c. Turpentine as a remedy for tinea is so well known as scarcely to need mention here. To effect the removal of hardened faeces or scybala, two remedies may be employed separately or conjointly, viz., purgatives and enemata ; in my opinion both may be used with much advantage, but the latter are espe- cially serviceable when the irritating matter occupies any portion of the left part of the colon : here again, the best purgatives are those of drastic property; I have several times seen cases in which the purgatives in common use, as senna and salts, rhubarb and magnesia, infusion of roses, and salts, Ac. have been employed, and have acted freely on the bowels for days together, without dis- lodging the offending substance ; and subse- quently this has been effected readily by one or two moderate doses of calomel and scam- mony, or calomel and jalap ; such instances must be familiar to all observant medical men. H 2