ARM, BEND OF. 359 “ the olecranon, or elbow.” Most authors follow this example, and employ the phrases, “ bend of the elbow-joint“ bend of the elbow2,” “front of the elbow 3,”&c., to denote the fore-part of the arm-joint. Some authors apply the word “ elbow” incorrectly, as thus : “ all recent dislocations of the elbow4,” which agrees exactly with Dr. S. Johnson’s 5 singu- lar definition of “ elbow,"—“ the next joint or curvature of the arm below the shoulder.” The best continental writers seem also to have experienced some difficulty in choosing terms for defining this region : hence they differ considerably. M. Gerdy c, for instance, in his interesting and laborious work, has described the superficial parts of the bend of the arm in his chapter “ On the articulation of the elbow.” M. Velpeau 7, in the last edition of his surgi- cal treatise, makes a “ humero-cubital region,” which he divides into two sections ; the one is the bend of the arm, or the fore part of the limb ; the other is the elbow, or the back part, which comprises the two tuberosities of the condyles of the os humeri, the olecranon, and the parts situated upon or around these points. M. Blandin8, whose work, if not the best upon this matter, is certainly the most surgical and practical, describes this part un- der the head of “ region of the elbow.” M. A. Berard9 has adopted the same plan, and M. Malgaigne10, in his new volumes, approves of that arrangement, but calls its posterior surface the “ olecranion region.” M. H. M. Edwards11 has improperly confounded this important region with the arm and fore-arm, in his “ middle region of the arm.” Mr. Lizars, in his little book, which is entirely anatomical, nearly follows the same order, making no separate region for the elbow, but describing it in his “ anterior and posterior brachial regions12. B. G. Seiler, the distin- guished anatomist of Dresden, has also spoken of this region when treating generally of the “ anatomia extremitatum13.” The thesis 1 The Elements of Anatomy, by Dr. Jones Quain, p. 330. London, 1836. 2 Dublin Dissector, p. 117 ; a very good manual of Anatomy, by R. Harrison. 1836. 3 Dr. Todd’s Cyclopaedia of Anatomy and Phys. Art. Arm, p. 217; by John Hart. 4 Cooper’s Dictionary of Practical Surgery, p. 403. London, 1830. 5 English Dictionary, fol. ed. 6 Anatomie des Formes Exterieures du Corps Hu- main, p. 180. Paris, 1829. “ De l’articulation du coude.” 7 Traite Complet d’Anatomie Chirurgicale, tome ii. p. 411. Paris, 1837. 3rd Edition. ^Traite d’Anatomie Topographique, p. 515. Paris, 9 Dictionnaire dc Medecinc, 2de Edition, tome ix. p. 204. Art. Coude. 10 Traite d’Anatomie Chirurgicale et de Chirurgie Exnernncntale, tome ii. p. 441. Paris, 1838. Manucl d’Anatomie Chirurgicale, p. 272. Paris, 12 Heads of Demonstrations on Regional Anatomy, p. 111. Edinburgh, 1836. 13 Page 22 of his Commcntatio Primas Lineas Prte- lectionum Anatomise Chirurgica: complectens, Ac. Vitebcrgae, 1802. quoted in the note, like Lizar’s little book, gives a sort of catalogue of the subjects, com- prehending surgery as well as anatomy, which should enter into a course of lectures upon this matter. This modest and learned pro- duction, which I have never seen noticed by any writer, shows that its author was perfectly aware, even at that early period of his career, of the utility of surgical anatomy, and how it ought to be prosecuted to become useful to the surgeon. Indeed it is surprising that Seiler’s “ Outlines” did not stimulate his labo- rious countrymen to complete a work upon that plan. To this day, however, no such treatise of any importance has appeared in Germany. In England, France, and America surgical anatomy has been cultivated more extensively, as well as more successfully; a circumstance which may reasonably be ex- plained by surgery being more advanced in those countries than elsewhere. Without endeavouring to prove the impropriety of many of the denominations which have been used by the able writers above mentioned, it is sufficient to know that they have all given a more or less comprehensive description of this region; and as we strongly recommend the perusal of these works for the valuable information they contain, we shall make a point of correcting any errors which may have escaped their authors. The arm, on account of its being constantly in action in the various pursuits of pleasure or of toil, and also on account of its peculiar situation, detached from the body, and in- creasing its lateral dimensions, is continually exposed to injury. The bend of the arm, in particular, claims the student’s care, as the region in which his anatomical skill is gene- rally first tested in the operation of bleeding ; it being considered a fair and easy trial for his young hand, although no operation is at times more trying, or more liable to be fol- lowed by serious consequences. The bend of the arm is also the seat of a number of diseases, often very complicated in their na- ture, and requiring great attention and manual dexterity from the surgeon ; and on these grounds, therefore, the greatest care ought to be bestowed on the description of this region. The outward forms, so worthy of being thoroughly studied by the practical surgeon, and which nevertheless have been so greatly neglected, and so imperfectly under- stood, we shall also endeavour to explain. As this region varies its form with every change of position, the type of our descrip- tion will be the arm extended, and the hand in complete supination ; this being also the position of the limb during the performance of most surgical operations in that part. There are four sides or surfaces to this region :— the anterior, or bicipital ; the posterior, or olecranial; the external, or radial ; the in- ternal, or ulnar. The bend of the arm pre- sents great variety in form, size, and propor- tions, at different periods of life. Thus the three stage3 of infancy, full growth, and old