CORNEA. 843 If in scrophulous, catarrhal, or catarrho- rheumatic ophthalmia, there be a penetrating adhesion of the iris to the cornea, surface to surface. .... Purulent, gonorrhoeal, and variolous ophthal- mia! are the diseases of the eve in consequence of which staphyloma most frequently occurs, and these are the verv diseases in which the cornea is more or less extensively destroyed.” Again, Mr. Lawrence:—“ Mr. Jones has forgotten to explain how, when the whole cornea has hecn de- stroyed, the aqueous humour can be accumulated in the posterior chamber, so as to distend the iris into a staphylomatous tumour.” The ready-made answer to this again is, “ The whole or greater part of the cornea being destroyed, as occurs in gonorrhoeal,purulent, and very often in variolous ophthalmia, as also that of new- born infants, the whole iris falls forward, the pupil be- comes closed, and the- aqueous humour being thus allowed to accumulate in the posterior chamber, the iris is kept distended in the form of a tumour on the front of the eye.”—Op. et loc. cit. p. 849. This surely is no indication of forgetfulness on my part; but, when the reader is informed that the words just quoted actually occur in the extract from my paper which Mr. L. himself gives in the preceding page, he will be inclined to attribute forgetfulness rather to Mr. Lawrence. Mr. Lawrence thinks it probable that the explana- tion offered by me is correct, as regards partial staphy- loma; but, respecting total staphyloma, he thinks the old notion the correct one. “ If it be otherwise,” he adds, “ and if Mr. Jones be right, we want proofs ; his mere assertion is not sufficient.” In my paper I have asserted nothing, but I have simply described the re- sult of observation of many cases. And for proofs I refer to observation. Mr. Lawrence gives the result of his observation as follows:—“ What I have observed, after entire de- struction of the cornea, is, that the bulging iris has gra- dually receded, and become covered by an opaque pellicle ; the front of the eye being thus permanently flattened.” 1 have also observed the same thing in some cases, and remark of them in my paper. “ In those cases in which the eye is destroyed by purulent ophthalmia, whether in adults or new-born infants, by gonorrhoeal ophthalmia, variolous ophthalmia, &c. and in which staphyloma does not form, but the eye- ball shrinks, and becomes atrophic, 1 suspect (though, at present, I cannot adduce any direct proof) the lens has escaped on the giving way of the cornea.”— Op. et loc. cit. p. 850. As if unwilling wholly to depend on what he has himself observed, Mr. Lawrence admits, however, that it is “ not improbable that the iris, instead of shrink- ing, may sometimes be pushed out by the secretion of aqueous humour in the posterior chamber, and form staphyloma.” Hut then, he adds, as if to deprive me of the benefit of the admission, “ This view of the sub- ject, adopted, as I think, too exclusively by Mr. Jones, had been already clearly set forth, in explanation[?] of certain cases, by the late Mr. Ware, who says, ‘ 1 have sometimes seen the whole cornea sloughed off, during an acute purulent ophthalmia, and a white opaque substance gradually effused from the ulcerated surface, sufficient to form a complete cover to the iris; after which the opaque body has gradually projected in a conical shape, until at length it has become so promi- nent as to hinder the eyelids from closing over it.’ ” This excellent description by Mr. Ware refers exactly Ito the cases on which I founded my views regarding staphyloma; but Mr. Ware infers nothing from them in regard to the general pathology of staphyloma. In- deed his general notion of the subject appears to have I been, that staphyloma was a diseased cornea, without participation of the iris, and that staphyloma, after sloughing of the cornea, was an extraordinary occur- rence. The observation of a fact is one thing, and the inference therefrom deduced is another. Observations similar to those recorded by Mr. Ware, must have fre- quently been made by surgeons; but I have not yet ulcer of the cornea, the aqueous humour, as has been already mentioned, escapes, the iris falls forward into contact with the cornea, and a small part of it is perhaps prolapsed through the ulcerated opening. The pro- gress of the ulceration being stopped by the yielding of the inflammation, tne prolapsed portion of the iris, and the ulcerated part of the cornea are involved in one cicatrice. The opening in the cornea being thus closed, the aqueous humour again collects, and the ante- rior chamber is restored; though somewhat diminished, in consequence of the partial ad- hesion between the iris and cornea (synechia anterior). There is no prominent distention on the front of the eye in this case, because, as the inflammation subsides, the small pro- truded portion of iris shrinks and flattens; but if the destruction of the cornea has gone on farther, either by extension of ulceration from a continuance of the inflammation, or by the giving way of an abscess of the cornea, and considerably more of the iris has pro- truded, the prolapsed portion of the iris does not shrink when the inflammation begins to abate, as in the former case, but remains, and forms a projection at the part of the cornea implicated, which is generally the lower or lateral. This projection is at first merely a bag of the iris distended by the aqueous hu- mour, and is called staphyloma iridis ; but, by and by, its exposed surface becomes covered by an opaque firm tissue, of the nature of the tissue of cicatrice, and this tissue is incorporated at the base of the tumour with the sound cornea. The projection, the mode of origin of which I have just described, is a partial staphyloma; it is not a distention of the cornea itself, but a protruded portion of the iris covered by a new tissue, intended to supply the loss of substance which the cornea has sustained. The mode of origin of a total staphyloma is essen- tially the same, but. differs only in degree. The whole or greater part of the cornea being destroyed, as occurs in gonorrheeal, purulent, and very often in variolous ophthalmia, as also that of new-born infants, the whole iris falls forward, the pupil becomes closed, and the aqueous humour, being thus allowed to accu- mulate in the posterior chamber, the iris is kept distended in the form of a tumour on the front of the eye. Its surface gradually gets covered with an opaque cicatrice-like tissue, or pseudo-cornea, which assumes a greater or less degree of thickness, and a total staphyloma is the result. Sometimes found any author who has anticipated my views. Mr. L. indeed mentions, in the new edition of his work, among the generally received opinions respecting the mode in which staphyloma corneas is produced, that the external surface of t ie staphylomatous swelling is formed of a tissue, like that of cicatrix, covering the iris where it has been denuded by sloughing of the cornea. But where, I would ask, does he find such a view stated, except in my paper? There are no such words in his former edition ; and the interpolation is shown by this, that I am represented as questioning the very views I maintain, and for which Mr. L. takes so much trouble to criticise me.