ANKYLOSIS. 3\S branous adhesions between the opposed sur- faces of the synovial membrane, or more pro- bably the membrane itself is thickened and stiff, the ligaments have lost some of their ex- tensibility, and deposit has taken place in the tissues around the joint. The only difficulty which can arise in diagnosticating between ex- ternal and internal ankylosis, is in those cases of cellular inflammation, pointed out with great perspicuity by Mr. Wickham, in his work on articular disease, as being liable to be mistaken for affections of the joints. In all other cases, a short inquiry into the patient’s previous his- tory will enable us to decide, not only whe- ther the ankylosis be internal or external, but also, if it be external, what has been the pri- mary lesion ; whence it will not be difficult to infer the present impediment to motion. Fig. 105. Fig. 105. Sectiosi of a knee-joint united by soft union. This sketch was taken by permission from the prepa- ration, No. 239 (one of Hunter's j, in the Museum of the Royal College of Surgeons, a a, the femur with its epiphysis ; ft, the patella ; e ce, soft uniting sub- stance ; d d, the tibia with its epiphysis. The prognosis in the affection under con- sideration can have reference to life only when the inferior maxilla has become subject to it. I have read of one case in which the patient, labouring under this disease, sunk from want ot nourishment; but we have already seen in the case cited from Cruveilhier, that this is not an inevitable consequence, and other in- stances might be adduced, if necessary. In- deed, if the front teeth be extracted, as they unquestionably may be, even when the mouth is firmly shut, it is not easy to conceive how there can be any difficulty in administering a sufficient quantity of soft and pulpy nourish- ment, not merely to support life, but to sup- port it in considerable vigour. Even in this case, therefore, the prognosis may be favour- able, and in every other, life is in no danger. An opinion may, however, be wanted as to the probability of the joint’s recovering its pro- per functions. Where the ankylosis is ex- ternal, we may usually promise a restoration in process of time, if the affection be not of very ancient date, and do not depend on the sloughing of tendon or muscle. If the anky- losis be internal, we may, in an early stage of the affection, anticipate recovery, if the pri- mary malady has been simple synovitis with- out ulceration of cartilage, or has been con- fined mainly to the ligamentous tissue, as in gout and rheumatism ; but, where the carti- lage has ulcerated, and the bone has been inflamed or carious, no cure can be expected by the application of any ordinary means, for ankylosis is itself the cure. In all cases, the probability of cure depends, in some degree, on the age of the patient, for as life advances the tissues become more rigid ; and in a much higher degree on the length of time that the ankylosis has been established. A cure is also effected more easily in orbicular than in ginglymoid joints. The treatment of ankylosis is the last and most important point which claims our atten- tion. From what has been already said, it is sufficiently obvious that no one plan of treat- ment can be laid down which shall be appli- cable to all cases of this affection. And additional difficulty invests the subject, from the circumstance, that it is sometimes our business to promote, by every means in our power, the formation of ankylosis, while at others we are not less strenuously called upon to remove it when already formed. The for- mer class of cases will fall first under conside- ration. Curative ankylosis is a term which may be employed to denote those cases in which we seek to aid the formation of ankylosis—not to prevent it. Under these circumstances, anky- losis is reparative, or as it has been elsewhere termed, it is “ an effort of nature to remedy the effects of disease.” When a process of ulceration has been going on within the inte- rior of a joint, a disorganization is effected which makes it impossible that this complex machine should ever again perform its proper functions ; and not only is the joint injured, but even the life of the patient is threatened. Under these circumstances, ankylosis is the only favourable result, and it becomes the duty of the surgeon to promote it in every possible way. The joint, should be kept in a state of complete repose. To insure this repose it has been recommended to case the limb in plaster of Paris, but this bricklayer work is often not practicable, and seldom necessary, since the patient is usually unable to accomplish the least motion of the joint. If the remedies employed to subdue the dis- ease prove successful, the reparative action will commence, and the object of the surgeon