AMAUROSIS. 83 with slight dimness of vision accompanied with occasional scintillations or flashings of light ; or the appearance of flashings, &c., is the first indication of diseased action, and is cjuickly followed by a diminution of visual power. The entire field of vision appears dull or misty ; and the patient seeks a bright light, by which the sight is somewhat improved. Often from the commencement a dull pain is experienced at the brow, corresponding par- ticularly to the site of the supra-orbital notch ; usually the pain is remittent, being severe only for short periods ; or it is sometimes inter- mittent, though not with any regularity ; it frequently extends to the forehead, temple, and cheek. These symptoms augment by de- grees ; the vision becomes more obscured, the pain more frequent and severe, as well as ex- tended, and the luminous appearances occur in greater variety and number ; there is, how- ever, much difference in the amount of pain and in the degree of flashing, &c. in different cases. I have observed that they are usually proportioned to the progress of the disease, being trifling when it is slow, and more urgent as it is rapid. I have known the disease pass through all its stages to the destruction of vision without any pain, but never without some scintillations or luminous appearances. These appearances present almost endless va- riety in different patients ; from a single small spark, to the most vivid and brilliant corusca- tions or flashings ; sometimes there is a sem- blance of fire-works, sometimes bright circles of unequal brilliancy, fixed or in motion, and occasionally spreading out and vanishing, as the circles created by the falling of a stone on the surface of a smooth pool ; at other times the figures are oblong or square. Whatever may be their figure they are seldom very trou- blesome in the early stage of the disease ; but often continue even for years after the amau- rosis is complete. In the early stage of the disease the power of adapting the eye to near and distant objects is sometimes diminished or lost, so that an object seen with tolerable distinctness in one position, becomes indistinct or lost if its rela- tive distance be changed. I do not, however, consider this to be the result of retinal affec- tion, as I shall hereafter describe. More fre- quently objects appear distorted f visits diffigu- ratus) especially those which present much length or height with little breadth ; they seem bent or broken. The symptoms are aggravated by whatever disturbs the circulation suddenly, as a change from the erect to the recumbent posture, fright, or any sudden mental emotion ; or what- ever effects this change in the vascular system more slowly, and depresses power, as continued mental labour or anxiety, exposure to damp and cold, derangement of digestive organs, ex- hausting exercise ; they are also augmented by too much exercise of the organ itself. The symptoms are mitigated by whatever tranquillizes the circulation and promotes its power gradually and tends to maintain it in equal balance; thus vision improves, pain sub- sides, &c. from a few hours’ quiet repose, and a similar effect results from a moderate nutri- tious meal. Whilst power of vision remains, it is always improved by a bright sun-light; though the ordinary artificial light is of little or no assist- ance. The sensation of some fine particle or par- ticles of foreign matter being in the eye, is also a common symptom in chronic retinitis, and sometimes the globe feels full and tender. Appearances.—The first deviation from the ordinary condition of the different structures of which the organ is composed, is to be per- ceived in the pupil, which loses its circular figure and becomes oblong (very slightly so at first), and is generally elongated upwards and inwards in a direction towards the trochlea of the superior oblique muscle, but the direction of the elongation varies as I have described in the acute disease ; the alteration is upwards and inwards, in at least nineteen cases out of twenty ; and in whatever direction it occurs, there is always a general dilation, but at first also very trivial, and the motions of the iris are rather sluggish. By degrees the pupil becomes more dilated, more irregular in figure, and the motions of the iris more difficult; the space of the pupil loses its blackness, and as- sumes a dirty grey or green appearance, which exhibits unequal density, there being usually a spot more opaque than the other parts, and which resembles the commencement of cata- ract, for which it is often mistaken: the dis- tinction is however simple. The cataractous opacity is in the lens, and occupies its central part in ordinary cases, and maintains this relative position whatever may be the inci- dence of the light, or whatever may be the position in which the pupil is regarded. The opacity consequent upon chronic retinitis, (when in the degree I have described) always changes its position according to the incidence of the light, so that it appears central (as the cataractous opacity) when the light falls direct upon the pupil; but if the light falls from the nasal side of the cornea, the opacity of retinitis appears on the temporal side of the pupil; if the rays are incident from the temporal side, the opacity is seen in the nasal part of the pupil: it is always on the side remote from the origin of the incident rays, and can be made therefore to shift its position, by changing that of the pa- tient, or by movement of the eye itself; it re- sembles the reflection of the sun or any other luminous body from a muddy pool. Besides its change of position from altered incidence of light, the opacity here described is dis- tinguishable from its not appearing so near the surface as that which takes place in the lens. As the disease advances, this turbidity of humour increases ; the opaque spot becomes more dense, and assumes a more decided green tinge, from which the disease now obtains the name of Glaucoma. The iris now loses its brilliancy, and sometimes alters slightly in colour ; and some distended tortuous vessels G 2