240 FRACTURE. tures is a simple matter, not demanding much ex- pense in time and study to master the knowledge it requires. No man will ever treat fractures well who has not, in the first place, acquired a compe- tent knowledge of the ana- tomy of the bones, espe- cially of the relative situa- tions of those prominent c points which can be felt through the soft parts, so that he may at once detect a derangement of their na- tural relations ; secondly, who is not so accurately acquainted withthe attach- ments and actions of the muscles, as to be enabled, in any given fracture, to predict the probable amount of displacing force, Fig. 275. Fig. 276. Figs. 274, 275, and 276, are intended to show the manner in which nature, left entirely to her own resources, repairs fractures. Fig. 274 is the humerus of a su-an, which had been broken about the middle. The figure, which is taken from a preparation in the Royal College of Surgeons in Ireland, is about the fifth of the size of the pre- paration. The union, which is stronger than the original cylinder, is effected by dense bone forming two arches (one very strong), separated by the opening, d. The fragments are separated by at least an inch, the shortening is somewhat greater, and the upper and loiver portions of the bone form an inconsiderable angle with one another, a. The head of the humerus; l, the opening by which the cavity of ihc bone communicated with the air-cells; c, the cavity of the bone. No attempt has been made to close this, or the corresponding opening, which is on the concealed side of the lower fragment, with callus; d, a large foramen in the callus separating the two bony arches which unite the fragments; e, the distal extremity of the bone. Figs. 275 and 276 are the femora of a wild rabbit, one of which had been broken and perfectly united. The figures are about two thirds the length of the original bones. The shortening is about equivalent to three inches in the adult human femur, and the trochlea, for the patella is slightly turned inwards. In other respects the fracture has been remarkably well repaired; a, a, the heads of the femora ; b, b, the great trochanters; c, c, the lesser trochanters; d, d, the pulley surfaces for the patellee; e, the situation of the fracture. as well as the direction of the displaced fragments, and, consequently, to form a correct judgment respecting the means to be had recourse to for restoring and main- taining the natural relations of the parts; and, thirdly, who has not acquired manual dexterity in the management of them, by the frequent and careful application of the bandages, splints, and other parts of the appa- ratus they require. A knowledge of the parti- culars just mentioned is requisite for the treat- ment of the simplest cases, but in those of a serious nature, as severely complicated fractures, the practitioner should be able to call up every resource of knowledge, ex- perience, and tact; for he will have to contend with the dangers arising from fever of various kinds and degrees of intensity, according to the nature of the accident, or the constitution of the patient; with violent spasms in the fractured limb ; with high inflammation and tumefaction, threatening gangrene, or lead- ing to suppuration ; with matter diffused, or collected in large and numerous abscesses; with gangrene itself, circumscribed, or extend- ing to a greater or less portion of the limb ; with the laceration of the main artery of the part, rendering it necessary to cut down upon and secure the vessel, amidst the con- fusion of parts occasioned by the effusion of blood, or to expose and tie it at some higher point. Lastly, in cases of the greatest degree of severity, the surgeon is called upon at the moment to resolve, and act upon his reply to the question—as difficult and delicate as any that the whole practice of surgery presents— whether in the case before him, weighing all its circumstances with that true humanity which will not hesitate to operate where an operation is positively indicated, immediate amputation should be performed, or whether the nature of the injury is such as to afford a reasonable hope of preserving both the life and the limb of the patient, and to justify the surgeon in not having immediate recourse to the knife. The rapid sketch I have just given, entitles me, I think, to assert, that there is no class of cases in surgery, which requires more anatomical knowledge, nicer experience and judgment (medically and surgically), or greater dexterity of manipulation, than that of fractures. When we regard the frequency and great variety of fractures, the different causes which induce them, the numerous and fearful injuries which may attend them ; and when we contemplate the course and the treatment and the consequences of fractures and of all their complications, we find a subject, the right comprehension of which cannot be