80 AMAUROSIS. has been subdued, electricity or galvanism as- sists in expediting the recovery ot the nervous power ; strychnine might do the same, but I believe such cases would recover equally well, though not quite so rapidly, if left alone. Disturbance of the functions of the retina, from the influence of narcotics, which does not create any other injurious effect, subsides on removing the cause, or withdrawing the use of the narcotic. When the amaurosis is ac- companied with other morbid affections of stomach, head, &c. the case requires care and attention, and a mode of treatment, the expla- nation of which lies beyond my present limits. There is a functional form of amaurosis re- sulting from congestion of the choroid coat of very common occurrence, and which, though temporary, often leads to permanent organic disease in this tunic, and produces perfect amaurosis : it will be described with chronic choroiditis. ORGANIC AMAUROSIS (rETINa). Definition.—Diminution or loss of vision from alteration in structure, usually manifest on examination of the organ and affecting the retina. A very large portion of the amaurotic cases come under this head, as it embraces all the morbid changes which take place in the retina or choroid singly, or in combination with dis- ease of other tunics or humours of the glohe, and which I shall treat of in the following order, giving however a minute description of those changes only, which I consider pro- perly belonging to the subject of this paper. 1st, Inflammation of the retina, acute and. chronic. 2d, Inflammation of the choroid, acute and chronic. 3rd, Inflammation of the globe generally. 4th, Lesions of the globe. 5th, Scrofulous and malignant disease of the retina. The more scientific arrangement of the subjects would perhaps have been that which first offered explanation of the morbid changes affecting the retina itself immediately, and sub- sequently of those diseases which affect the retina secondarily; but the order which I have adopted will I think be of greater prac- tical utility in more directly contrasting the two most important diseases, viz. retinitis and choroiditis. INFLAMMATION OF THE RETINA (ACUTE). Synonyme—Retinitis. Symptoms.—Sudden occurrence of severe pain ; throbbing and darting, principally at first in the globe, but the darting extending to the brain, and coming on in paroxysms ; great sense of fulness and-tension of the globe, with excessive tenderness; much intolerance of light at first, with frequent flashes of vivid reddish, or orange-coloured light, or frequent scintillation, even when all daylight is ex- cluded, and more especially at night, or when the patient assumes the recumbent posture ; the suffering increased by sudden movement of the globe, which also produces flashings or sparks. At first sometimes a paucity of secre- tion, or an excess of it, which is hot or scald- ing. In a short time from the commencement of the attack the vision becomes dull and cloudy, and the denseness of the cloud increases ra- pidly until the perception of the natural light is lost, whilst, however, the appearances of light clouds, flashes, and sparks continue. In the early stage of the disease objects appear occasionally tinged with red or deep orange colour, as now and then occurs on our summer or autumnal evenings. The pain soon extends from the globe to the orbit and its circumfer- ence, being particularly severe at the supra- orbital notch ; it is of remittent character : the attacks are most frequent in the evening, or early in the morning, often affecting the cra- nium and face on the affected side, producing severe hemicrania, with great tenderness, so that the patient cannot bear a nightcap, or co- vering on the part; the patient complains of the sensation of grit, or some foreign particle in the eye from the beginning of the attack. When the disease has perfectly destroyed the vision, the suffering ceases suddenly or gradually. Appearances. — The eyelids are usually closed, and often a little tumid and red ; spas- modic action occurs in the orbicularis muscle on exposure to light, unless the vision be quite de- stroyed ; I have, indeed, often observed the pa- tients shrink from and complain of bright light, though they could not tell the direction of the rays, or their intensity. Lacrymation is abund- ant in most cases, and increased by exposure or examination of the eye. The conjunctiva exhibits several large and tortuous vessels, distended with purple-coloured blood, and pass- ing from the direction of the attachments of the recti muscles towards the cornea, dimi- nishing in size, but dividing and subdividing, and anastomosing, as they approach the corneal margin, beneath and in the spaces between the conjunctival vessels. Some of those of the sclerotica may be seen injected with blood of a lighter colour, but not so brilliant as that in the conjunctiva,—they are straight and small. The iris is dull and discoloured, or looks dirty, the pupil is at first contracted, but soon becomes dilated and irregular, being oblong,— usually in a direction upwards and inwards ; sometimes upwards, now and then horizon- tally elongated, and rarely downwards. The iris is motionless or nearly so. The blackness and brightness of the pupil is lost, and it has a dull and usually greenish aspect, with the ap- pearance of an opake spot, as that seen in the onyx, but of a greenish hue, and which (as the spot in the onyx) varies its position ac- cording to the angle of incidence of the light; it has, perhaps, more resemblance to the re- flection of the sun from a turbid and greenish stagnant pool. When this appearance is dis- tinct, the term Glaucoma is applied to the disease, from yXavKog, sea-green. The feel of the globe is hard and inelastic.