CONGELATION. 814 served every end that its author could ven- ture to aim at. Bibliography. — Werner, Be Condylomatibus. Berol. 1825. Vossen, De Condylomatibus Venereis. Berol. 1827. ( H. J. Johnson. ) CONGELATION, from conge/are, to con- geal, Lat., nijZig, Gr. Under this head we intend to give an account of the local action of cold upon the living body, and the affections resulting from that action, commonly known under the name of Frost-bites and Chilblains. The class of injuries resulting from the local action of heat, and elsewhere treated of under the title of Burns, may be considered as the exact counterpart of those we are now to speak of. The two classes of injury are dia- metrically opposite to each other in so far as their exciting causes are concerned, for these causes are in their physical nature the very reverse of each other ; but they present a very remarkable, and, at first sight, somewhat sur- prising coincidence in the symptoms which they exhibit, the course which they run, and the modes of treatment best adapted for them. In a practical point of view the injuries result- ing from cold are chiefly interesting in the higher latitudes, where they often demand the assistance of the surgeon ; but they sometimes occur in more temperate regions, and they possess everywhere a high degree of interest from the light which they reflect upon some of the most important doctrines of surgical Pathology. I. GENERAL EFFECTS OF COLD. Although our object is to treat more espe- cially of the local effects of cold, it is impossible altogether to pass over the more general effects which it produces upon the system at large. A part of the body ma}' be severely burned while the rest of the system under- goes no elevation of temperature, and escapes from all injury, except what results from its sympathetic connexion with the burned part. But from the medium through which severe cold is usually applied to the body, it is rarely a single part only that suffers. While the extremities of the body have their vitality altogether suspended, and the humours con- gealed within them, it is not to be expected that the more internal parts, although more tenacious of their animal heat, should altoge- ther escape injury. The subtile influence of the cold penetrates to the innermost recesses of the body, paralyzing all the vital functions, or even extinguishing life. In ministering, therefore, to persons who have been exposed to severe cold, the duty of the surgeon is, not merely to apply remedies to the frost-bitten parts—he must attend also to the more gene- ral and, as it often happens, more urgent affection. Among the general effects of cold it is by no means our intention to enumerate the many diseases of which cold is commonly recognised as an exciting cause, This indeed would be no easy task, seeing that there is scarcely a disease to which mankind are subject which has not occasionally, whether with or without reason, been regarded as originating in cold. The vicissitudes of heat and cold, the applica- tion of cold to the body when bedewed with perspiration, or exhausted with fatigue, or in the state of collapse after the excitement of dissipation, the partial action of cold as by means of currents of cold air playing upon a part of the body, while the rest of it is com- fortably warm or over-heated—these are among the most common of the combinations of circumstances which excite the diseases referred in common language to the action of cold. There can be no better illustration of the innocuousness of even a very intense cold, if applied to the bodies of men in a proper hy- geienical condition, than has been afforded of late years by Captain Parry’s voyages, during which the health of his gallant crew continued in the most perfect state far within the arctic circle, and often exposed to a cold far more severe than that necessary to freeze the mer- cury in the thermometer. This intense cold did no harm, because there was no combina- tion of other circumstances to render it per- nicious ; and the mode in which Capt. Parry averted such combinations, by the judicious regulation of the moral and physical circum- stances of his crew, constitutes not one of the least achievements of that intelligent and intrepid navigator. There is, however, a certain degree of cold which of itself, and independent of all auxiliary influences, is capable of producing the most serious effects upon the human body : what that degree of cold is cannot be determined absolutely. It varies according to many cir- cumstances, and more especially according to the laws which regulate the development of animal heat in the human body. The cold which would be borne with impunity by an adult might be fatal to a person of advanced age or to an infant. That which might do no harm to men in vigorous health, in high spirits, and plentifully supplied with nourishing food, would speedily overwhelm those exhausted by previous diseases or long-continued fatigue, depressed in mind, and in want of sustenance. Habit, too, is generally regarded as enabling the inhabitants of frozen regions to withstand cold more easily than the inhabitants of tem- perate or intertropical countries. The accu- racy of this doctrine, however, has been con- tested by Larrey, whose opinion on the subject is entitled to deference, from his having had, during the disastrous retreat of the army of Napoleon from Moscow, opportunities such as never before occurred in the history of man- kind, of observing the relative powers of en- during cold in men of almost every nation of Europe. According to Larrey1, the Italians, Spaniards, Portuguese, and Frenchmen suf- 1 Memoires de Cliinivgie Militaire, tom. 4me, p. 111. 138.