623 CANCER, PATHOLOGY OF. of the disease seems only capable of demon- stration (exclusively of cases of extension'by contiguity of tissue) under the following circumstances : 1. when the morbid growth occurs in the skin, subcutaneous cellular membrane or other situations, where its origin and progress may be traced with the eye and hand; 2. when the lymphatic vessels and glands communicating with a diseased mass themselves become affected. While speaking in general terms we are obliged to exclude the condition of the heterologous matter and the existence of symptoms as elements for forming an opinion, although particular in- stances do arise in which either may be decisive of the question. Thus neither the size, the consistence, or the number of masses in a given organ will always throw any ma- terial light on the matter ; their growth may have been slow or rapid, their consistence may be soft ab initio, a number of tumours may be produced within as short a period as a single accumulation. We obtain no more satisfactory guidance from symptoms ; carcino- ma may exist for a length of time in the most important organs—witness the brain, the liver, the lungs—without producing the least functional derangement ; experience even proves that two-thirds of the surface of the stomach may be destroyed by cancerous ulceration without—provided the orifices are left intact—producing any general or local symptoms of sufficient intensity to direct the attention of the patient or his medical attend- ant to that important viscus. (c.) The condition of the solids and fluids of subjects dying -with cancerous disease has scarcely been investigated. Lymphatic and visceral secondary contamination are the only lesions recognised as attendants on the pro- gress of the disease ; whether any other exist, and bear the same relation to the original affection as the secondary lesions of phthisis discovered by the philosophic labours of M. Louis, remains to be ascertained. The ma- terials for the inquiry can only be obtained by long and laborious clinical research. M. Louis found that the mean volume of the heart was less in subjects dying from cancer, especially of the stomach and uterus, than in those succumbing under any other disease ; and that while the aorta measures 34 i lines (Fr.) in width at the edge of the sigmoid valves in subjects dying of acute diseases between the ages of 30 and 40, and 32 in the victims of phthisis, it only measures 80 in carcinomatous subjects of the same age1. Tubercle and cancer rarely co-exist. In fifty-two autopsies of cancerous subjects col- lected from various sources we found but three examples of the anatomical characters of phthisis. The difference of the ages at which the two diseases are most prevalent would lead us to expect a result of this kind, independently of any influence which the for- mation of one may have in excluding that 1 Rerh. snr la Phthisie, pp. .54, 50. 132.5. of the other form of morbid matter. It is worthy of remark, that in the three instances of coexistence referred to, the cancerous affec- tion was of the scirrhous species, and the mean age of the subjects thirty-seven. The absence of tuberculous disease in all the cases of encephaloid (thirty-one in number) argues strongly against the opinion of those who either consider the latter allied to scrofula, or with Mr. Travers actually regard it as cancer modified by a strumous constitution: indeed we have never yet met with a solid argument in support of this doctrine. • The quantity of blood in circulation di- minishes ; and that what remains is materially altered in composition, the change of its colour, and of the solids it nourishes, and the undue proportion of serum in that effused in haemorrhages, incontestably show; but the extent of this alteration, its precise nature, its relation to different stages of the disease, above all whether the microscopical elements of carcinoma mingle with the fluid, are all unknown. (d.) Etiology, (a.) Specific cause.—Until of late years it was pretty generally believed that cancer might be transmitted from indi- vidual to individual by means of an inoculable or even an infectious principle. The grounds for the belief consisted on the one hand of a few ill-authenticated statements in the older writers respecting the development of the disease, in persons presumed to have been previously healthy, as a result of close and ha- bitual contact with cancerous subjects ; on the other of an experiment by Peyrilhe, in which that surgeon introduced some cancerous mat- ter under the skin of a dog, and produced, as he implies, a carcinomatous ulcer. Admitting the authenticity of the first order of facts, they can only prove the fact of coincidence. As to the experiment of Peyrilhe, the only ascertained results were violent inflammation and gangrene ; the ultimate effect was not known, as the animal was lost sight of. The accurate observations of modern patho- logists have settled this question in the nega- tive. First, Alibert, Biett, and several pupils of the Hopital St. Louis inoculated them- selves with the ichorous discharge of cancerous ulcers without suffering any particular effect from the operation: Secondly, Dupuytren introduced pieces of cancerous tissue into the stomachs of animals', and injected the matter from ulcers into the veins and splanchnic cavities without producing any result except those caused by irritating substances gene- rally : Thirdly, among a considerable number of men who had habitual intercourse with women affected with ulcerated cancer of the cervix (of which the existence was established by post-mortem examination) not one pre- 1 Gooch relates the “ history of a cancerous disease, which arose from drinking some liquor impregnated with the matter that issued from an ulcerated cancer;” (Cases and Remarks, &c. p. 39.) hut the inference drawn from this case is not justified by the narrative.