EPISTAXIS. 142 Plugging is sometimes followed by a sense of great heat, weight, and pricking in the nares and frontal sinuses ; and M. Blandin 1 states, that the blood sometimes passes by the nasal and lachrymal ducts, and appears be- neath the conjunctiva. He says he has seen this take place, but it did not prevent the plugging having the desired effect. There are serious objections to the instru- ment of Bellocq, and to any plan which re- quires manipulation by the mouth, as consi- derable irritation is generally produced by contact with the fauces, straining, coughing, and sometimes vomiting, and this would be extremely prejudicial in enfeebled patients, as in typhus. There is danger also that the an- terior plug may be loosened by the patient, and the posterior fall on the epiglottis, and suffocate the patient. M. Martin St. Ange 2 states, that when he was interne at the Hotel Dieu, he saw a patient who was thus suffo- cated in one of the medical wards. The same objections apply to a plan proposed by M. Miquel of Amboise3, which consists in the substitution of inflated intestine for common plugs. M. Martin St. Ange has constructed an in- strument which appears to unite the advan- Fig. 240. and also avoids direct unyielding pressure upon the mucous membrane. The instru- ment also, of which the preceding cut is a representation, is as portable as a common catheter, and might be carried in any pocket- case. It consists of a straight tube, four inches in length, widened into the form of a cone at the extremity, which is not to be engaged in the nose, and terminating at the other by a small perforated nipple. The widened extremity has two rings like a catheter, and a small cock at the distance of five lines. Beyond this a slide plays, which may be tightened at plea- sure by a screw. For the extent of an inch from the other extremity, circular grooves are made, and a small bladder, formed of the ccecum of a sheep, is fixed on the grooved ex- tremity by a firm ligature. To be still more sure that the bladder may not be thrown off from the tube, it is connected by a thread with one of the rings at the handle. The bladder, being softened and folded around the tube, is introduced towards the pharynx, and filled with air or water by injection, which is retained by turning the cock. Slight traction is then employed to draw the small balloon closely against the'posterior aperture of the nares, as shown in the following cut. b, Furrowed extremity of ca- theter. f Process from the slide to fix the anterior plug. g. The screw to fix the slide on different portions of the catheter. j, A n elevated process to fix the cock when it is open. t>, The bladder. u tages of these several plans without their defects, as it divests them of the inconveni- ence of requiring manoeuvres by the mouth, ' Diet, de Med. ct de Chir. Prat. tom. vii. p. 434. 2 Bulletin Chirurgical, Janvier, 1840 3 Journal des Connaissances Medic ales, tom. ii. 1834-5. Fig. 249. A piece of linen is placed in the orifice of the nares, on to which the screw is to be advanced, and the instrument fixed by its pressure. The whole apparatus can be withdrawn at will by opening the cock, when the bladder, more or less empty, brings forwards the clots contain- ed in the nose. This plan is especially adapted to children, restless patients, and those extremely feeble, as it may be applied without altering their position, or producing any irritation of the fauces. It has been very successful in the hands of M. Martin-Solon, and M. Fischer. M. Martin St. Auge used it in the case of a girl seven years of age, who had bled from the right nostril for three days, and was so excessively feeble that the ordinary methods could not be employed. We have never per- sonally made use of it, but are acquainted with two gentlemen who speak highly in its praise after practical experience.