164 ERYSIPELAS. ever gratuitous maybe the hypothesis that con- siders the erysipelas as a critical effort of nature to expel a morbid principle, the wisest treat- ment consists in promoting the action of the skin by the use of mild diuretics, and moderating the violence of the symptoms if required. Thus depletion may be necessary, but in general the equable warmth of the bed. warm diluting drinks (according to Broussais1 the safest and surest diaphoretic) and simple cool- ing evacuants will be alone required. In inflammatory erysipelas prompt and liberal depletion becomes imperatively called for, in order to mitigate the violence of the re- action, prevent sympathetic disturbance, and counteract the tendency that the local inflam- mation has in this form of the disease to in- vade the subcutaneous tissues : at the same time the other various antiphlogistic means, total abstinence from food, refreshing drinks, cooling evacuants, and topical applications of the same nature, should be made conducive to the same end. If the violence of the general or local reaction persist, bleeding should be repeated again and again in the twenty-four hours. Employed tardily and with too much reserve, as Rayer justly remarks, it neither prevents the ulterior progress of the inflam- mation, nor the supervention of sympathetic disturbance. It is in this form of the disease that the various topical refrigerants may be used with most safety and advantage to the patient, in mitigating the acrid heat and pain of the eruption. The treatment of bilious erysipelas should be principally directed against the derangement of the primae vias. Experience has shown that all topics have little or no influence on the march of the eruption, and with respect to repercussive applications, it is easy to con- ceive the inconvenience, without at all com- prehending the advantage of them. The salutary effects of emetics are here often shown, especially in that assemblage of symp- toms described under the denomination em- barras gastrique. It is not in these cases un- usual to see the eruption fade and collapse, and the nausea, lassitude, and distressing ce- phalalgia disappear a few hours after the ad- ministration of an emetic. In the purely bilious state the same success does not gene- rally attend this treatment, and considerable abuse has been made of emetics, not only by the contemporary practitioners of Stoll and Desault, but by those of modern times, as has been well shown by the illustrious author of the “ Examen des Doctrines.” It often requires great clinical discrimination to ascertain the existence of subacute gastric or duodenal in- flammation, and in such cases it is easy to un- derstand how injurious the exhibition of eme- tics and cathartics may become. In cases of doubt, it would be wise to have their admi- nistration preceded by the application of leeches and emollient cataplasms to the epi- gastrium. The opinion of Lisfranc respect- 1 Leqons Orales. ing the topical application of blisters should be here recorded : he says that in erysipelas connected with gastric or intestinal irritation they are dangerous, but that they succeed constantly w'hen the erysipelas is exempt from this complication h If the reaction is violent and the local in- flammation intense, the treatment of the in- flammatory form should take precedence of all others, and general, local, and derivative depletion, should be effected on the principles already laid down. The application of leeches to the arms in cases of hepatic congestion, so rational in theory, is often attended with the happiest results. It should be borne in mind that the hepatic venous systems are unpro- vided with valves, and consequently haemosta- tic effects are easily produced in them, and freeing the mesaraic circulation directly tends to empty and unload the system of the vena porta. After one or more emissions of blood, and when the violence of the reaction have subsided, the exhibition of an emetic and mer- curial purges, or these latter alone, will safely lead to convalescence. In this form of erysipelas the patient in- stinctively calls for cooling acidulated drinks : they should not be withheld from him unless countermanded by an inflammatory state of the stomach and intestines : they alone with absti- nence and laxative clysters constitute in many cases the sole treatment of wise practitioners, and Dr. Ohomel considers them more useful in many cases of bilious erysipelas than either emetics or bleeding. If the erysipelas can be referred to the ingestion of indigestible food, or the existence of acescent matter in the stomach, emetics become imperative, and in this latter case may be followed up by an attenuated solution of the fixed alkaline car- bonates, as directed by Sir A. Carlisle1. In the convalescence of bilious erysipelas purga- tives are advantageously associated with bitter and tonic infusions. Adynamic or asthenic Erysipelas.—The gan- grenous erysipelas of some authors sometimes presents at its invasion characters of inflam- matory reaction, that would seem to invite the free use of the lancet; but should the fault be committed of responding too ener- getical!}7 to this first appeal, it will be soon discovered that this insidious reaction has given way to a collapse proportionate to the extent of depletion effected, and the evil con- sequences of which it may be difficult to repair. Consequently, blood-letting should be effected with the greatest reserve, and tho reaction must be unusually intense to at all warrant its use, and it can be only admissible at the onset of the disease : at a late period when the real characters of the affection be- came pronounced, the abstraction of blood would be detrimental, and tonics and restora- tives are the only means that offer advantage. Vinous drinks, the mineral acids combined 1 Lancette Franchise, tome iv. no. 46. 5 London Med. Gazette, vol. i.