391 FRACTURE. Fig. 338. Fracture of the tibia and fibula long repaired. This appearance, in a manner, explains its own his- tory. It cannot be supposed that any one force could first break the small bone above, and then the larger below. Superincumbent weight, obliquely applied, has first broken the tibia and then the fibula. The observation of such an injury tends to assure us that fracture of the tibia attended with a certain degree of displacement, almost necessarily involves tlio division of the fibula. but oblique fractures of the shaft of the tibia take place chiefly about or below its middle. The plane of the separation in these cases is usually inclined upwards and outwards ; the upper divided end presenting, forwards and inwards,—angular displacement, with little or much of shortening. Other modes of frac- ture and displacement are scarcely uncom- mon. The foot with the inferior fragments is disposed to roll outwards ; or if the former be elevated, the broken ends may become depressed. Oblique fractures of the tibia may present much overlapping; transverse fractures scarce- ly admit of any, on account of the broad sur- faces of resistance which such a division of the tibia affords. The symptoms of fracture of the leg are generally too plain to be doubted. Near the ankle, fissures of one or both bones are, of course, undiscoverable by any tact; for this reason all severe sprains should be treated as being, possibly, fractures. When the fracture but seems to implicate a joint, it should be an object of double caution ; and most of all, if it concerns the knee-joint. Fractures of the upper third of the tibia are rarely subject to either much displacement or difficulty ; i. e. independently of complica- tions. Obliquity, displacement, the action of muscles, and the possibility of the fracture becoming open by ulceration or sloughing, are the principal sources of care in the ma- nagement of all these injuries, when they are not complicated still more seriously. The treatment of fractures of the leg, as adopted and recommended by various writers, is, unfortunately, not uniform ; but I would hope that the student will not be far misled from the best method of practice by the fol- lowing rules :— The bent position of the knee freely relaxes the superficial gastrocnemius. A slight degree of extension of the ankle (scarcely more than in the attitude of repose) relieves the inter- nal gastrocnemius, with the peronei; and the last are also relaxed by laying the limb on its outer side. It may be granted in the onset, that fractures of the leg may be treated with good success in the last named posture ; as well as in the straight position, or on the heel, with the knee more or less bent; and we may admit that with due attention it may often be rather a matter of indifference which position is made choice of; but the two positions of flexion, only, will obviate certain displacements of bone;— sometimes the one, and sometimes the other. So that after all, it is a great rule to try dif- ferent positions in difficult cases ; and, again, it is necessary to consider the facilities or dis- advantages of every position. Open fractures.