CALCULUS. 581 of a mineral acid. It was also soluble in acetic acid with the assistance of heat, and was pre- cipitated by means of the ferrocyanate of pot- ash. Sir B. C. Brodie is the only other prac- titioner who seems to have met'with this pe- culiar calculus subsequently to Dr. Marcet. It was found in the bladder after death in a case where no affection of the organ had been suspected. It was of an oval shape, about the size of a horse-bean, yellow, semitranspa- rent, not very unlike amber in appearance, but less hard. Soft masses of this kind, coated with a calculous crust, have been occasionally removed from the bladder by the operation of lithotomy. This sort of deposit also takes place on abnormal growths, from the bladder, and sometimes on the internal cicatrix left after lithotomy. There is yet another form of concretion, very lately described by Dr. Hodgkin, which can scarcely be called urinary, although it was taken from the bladder of a boy after death ; its presence, owing to its peculiar constitution, not having been satisfactorily ascertainable by sounding during life, although all the symptoms of stone in the bladder were manifest. This concretion, instead of being hard and stony like calculi in general, consisted of a series of concentric layers of a white elastic substance, apparently like cheese or coagulated albumen, containing between each of them a thinner layer of very friable earthy matter, probably phosphate of lime, though this is not stated. When struck by the sound, this mass of course gave no other sensation than is communicated by the lining membrane of the bladder. It was in all likelihood, as stated by Dr. Hodg- kin, the product of a morbid state of the urine, which must have contained, at different times, portions of the fibrinous matter of the blood. A nucleus of this must have been formed in the first instance, accidentally ; the irritation engendered by the presence of the foreign body in the bladder caused the elaboration in extra quantity of the phosphates which were deposited on the nucleus ; then came a re- newal of the albuminous state of the urine with the envelopment of the phosphatic layer by a stratum of coagulum, and so on. There were two of these stones in the bladder, each about the size and shape of a pigeon’s egg '. Brugnatelli, in his Litologia Umana, speaks of two calculi, the outer laminae of which con- sisted of a semi opaque horny substance, a line in thickness, smooth and polished on its surface, and fibrous in its structure. This substance burned with the odour of horn when thrown on hot coals, and was probably of the nature of albumen. He also describes and gives a figure of what he calls a calculus of crystallized albuminous matter, probably a specimen of the cystic oxide calculus. When broken, the fragments were transparent and amber-coloured. It contained no nucleus. Vtsical calculi.- —Small stones either imme- diately or soon after their arrival in the blad- 1 Guy’s Hospital Reports, vol. ii. p. 266. der are frequently carried out from that viscu3 by the gush of the urine. But from a variety of circumstances, the concretion is apt to lodge in the bladder, and then, in virtue of the ordinary laws of chemical attraction, it begins to grow by having fresh matter depo- sited upon it, and very speedily acquires such dimensions, that it can by no possibility be discharged through the natural passages. I he calm that follows the escape of a renal calculus from the ureter into the bladder is deceitful and may impose upon the patient, but it ought not to lull his medical adviser into a false security, the evil of which is so serious that one is almost tempted to regret this temporary relief. Did the pain continue, efforts to secure the onward progress or the dissolution of the stone would not be remitted, and these in the great majority of instances would prove successful; where they failed, the bladder would be searched, and the nu- cleus being seized with a proper instrument, would be crushed and extracted without any suffering worth speaking of. As a preparation for its expulsion through the natural passage, a large bougie may be introduced from day to day for a short time ; the urine increased by diluents being then allowed to accumulate, when the desire be- comes urgent, the concretion may often be discharged in the full flow that follows the withdrawal of the bougie. This event may also be favoured by the position which the patient is directed to take for this purpose, such as leaning forward, or resting on the hands and knees, &e. The treatment should therefore be perse- vered in, and if at the end of a week or ten days the concretion be not voided, an explo- ration should be made in order to its extrac- tion. If the foreign body be not removed, it be- comes a centre for the precipitation of the less soluble constituents of the urine, whereby it increases in size, and sooner or later inevit- ably proves such a source of suffering that life becomes a burden. This deposition takes place also on foreign bodies of a different kind that find their way, no matter by what means, into the bladder. Thus a bodkin or needle, a hair pin, a large corking pin, an ivory tooth-pick, a hazel-nut, teeth, a piece of tobacco-pipe, the stems of plants, part of a bougie, fuetal bones, masses of hair, clots of blood, growths from the in- side of the bladder, &c., &c., have severally been found in the centres of calculi, which had either been voided, extracted by an ope- ration, or discovered after death. When the surgeon’s efforts prove unsuc- cessful, and the stone is retained in the bladder, its presence gives rise to a train of symptoms, which, together with their treatment, will be described in the articles Lithotomy and Lithotrity. Bibi.iograpiiy.. Kculmnn, Dc Calculis corporis huinani. Zurich, 1565. Ferrand, Dc Ncpliritidis ct