41tf ARTICULATIONS. osseous substance. Sometimes they are shown at once upon the cartilaginous patches which they have raised ; at other times, they cross over from the circumference to the centre, but the cartilage always disappears before them without ever contributing to pro- duce them. After disarticulations, the carti- lages will remain in contact, with dressings, for many days without undergoing any morbid change. They fall off by patches, or disap- pear in the midst of vascular layers of mem- brane, but never show any trace of synovial membrane, softening, vascularity, thickening, or any other morbid lesion: a true epidermis of the bones, they retain merely the charac- ters of a protecting crust, entirely inorganic, and susceptible only of physical and chemical lesions. No ankylosis can take place until the cartilage is removed. Of the facts and arguments here adduced, some are most undoubtedly mistakes ; while others, though true in themselves, are expli- cable on another principle than the absence of vitality. To the former class belongs the assertion made by Cruveilhier, and repeated by Velpeau, that ankylosis can never take place until the cartilages are removed. In a former part of this article, I have cited ex- amples in which distinct bands of adhesion, constituting soft anchylosis, are attached to the cartilaginous surface, and I have also cited the concurrent testimony of Brodie and Mayo to the same purport. The proposition laid down by Cruveilhier, that after disarticula- tion the flap does not adhere to the cartilagi- nous surface, is refuted by Velpeau himself, who even chides Beclard for asserting the contrary. The affirmation of Velpeau, that the cartilages never swell, soften, or exhibit any morbid lesion, is equally incorrect, as I shall presently show; and not less fallacious is the assertion of Cruveilhier, that when a solution of continuity takes place, the cartila- ges show no trace of reparative action. On the contrary, if a divided cartilage, whether articular or sterno-costal, be examined some time after the division has been made, a tissue, not indeed cartilaginous, but more allied to ligament, will be found uniting the incised surfaces and closely adherent to each. To the remaining arguments adduced, which are drawn entirely from the persistent character of cartilage and the slowness with which it takes on any morbid action, it may be replied that this tissue is unquestionably of low or- ganization, and presents few changes, but that if one single example of morbid change can be satisfactorily established, the whole argu- ment on their part falls to the ground. It is true that cartilage may be lacerated and bruised without the production of any of the ordinary signs of inflammation, heat, red- ness, pain, and swelling; but the ligaments and tibro-cartilages, both of which are con- fessedly endowed with vitality, may be treated in the same way, and the former will at the time evince no sensibility, while the latter will not present any traces of inflammation more distinct than those evinced by carti- lage. The following considerations may also be urged as directly contravening the views of Messrs. Velpeau and Cruveilhier. 1. It is difficult to conceive how the carti- lage, if merely inorganized matter, can keep pace with, and undergo, changes correspond- ing to the gradual development of the ani- mal. Adapted in infancy to the small size of the articular surfaces, it augments in bulk and expansion as life advances. Though exposed to constant pressure and a degree of friction which no inorganic substance with which we are acquainted could endure without sensible diminution, it maintains its form and volume uninjured. As life advances, it undergoes changes corresponding to those observed in other tissues. In the foetus soft, muciform, and transparent; in the infant still transparent, soft, and but slightly elastic; in more mature years assuming the dense, hard, and elas- tic character by which it is commonly known; it becomes in old age, yellow, more dry and opake, less flexible, less elastic, loaded with a greater portion of earthy matter, and some- times in the end completely ossified. Surely these circumstances tend to show that a pro- cess of nutrition is constantly going on,—ob- scure, indeed, to our perceptions, but which we ought not to deny simply because we can- not comprehend. 2. From this point of view let us turn to consider the evidence deducible from tissues identical with, or closely analogous to, articu- lar cartilage. Beclard and the majority of anatomists assert that in the foetus the articu- lar is distinctly separate from the temporary cartilage, but an actual examination of foetal limbs w’ill showr that his observation is by no means universally correct. In the full-grown foetus, except w'here the process of ossification is very far advanced, I, and others with me, have several times failed in discovering any actual line of demarcation, and even when ossification is advancing, the temporary carti- lage interposed between the vessels and around the osseous spots, has precisely the diaphanous gelatinous appearance which is seen at the extremity of the bone. The minute observations of the Arnolds, already quoted, tend to the same conclusion. If, therefore, the tissues be so clearly correspondent, is it not reasonable to infer wrhen the one is mani- festly endowed with life, that the other pos- sesses the same attributes? Again, the carti- lages of the ribs, and the thyroid and cricoid cartilages, which so closely resemble articular cartilage in physical properties and intimate structures, betray evident tokens of vitality. They are invested by a distinct membrane ; after division they reunite, and as life advances, they are frequently the seat of accidental ossifications. At the period of puberty, the thyroid cartilage undergoes a manifest and extraordinary change, which argues a great activity of nutrition, and every surgeon has seen ulceration of this structure, following