482 BLOOD-LETTING. carefully the patient has been prepared before the operation, however careful the surgeon may have been in securing with a ligature every bleeding vessel; still, more or less inflam- matory action, accompanied by fever, may su- pervene, and a haemorrhage from the wound take place. Under such circumstances little need be feared from the bleeding ; and before tying the bleeding vessel, it will be wise either to have the wound exposed, and to allow a sufficient oozing to check the inflammation and the accompanying febrile symptoms, or to take some blood from a vein in the arm, for the same purpose. I removed the greater portion of the lower jaw of a young woman, who was so deluged in blood that bystanders conceived her recovery to be almost impossible. She remained many hours in a state of syncope, but I avoided there- fore giving her any stimulants, in the hope that the fearful wound would not inflame, and be the more likely to heal by adhesion. But not- withstanding all precautions, in a few days she became hot and feverish, and blood issued from a corner of the wound. I used no means to arrest it, and it stopped after a few ounces were discharged, completely alleviating all the inflammatory symptoms. Whenever, therefore, there is any likelihood of secondary haemorrhage from a wound, it is of great importance not to be too hasty in dressing it by applying plasters and bandages, so that if any bleeding should take place, all the pain and alarm ot undressing the wound are avoided, and the bleeding vessel can, if necessary, be easily secured. Local Bleeding; when to be employed.—In the treatment of those injuries and diseases wherein blood-letting is to be employed, it is of great consequence to have impressed on the mind some rules to enable us, on all occa- sions, to make choice of local or general blood- letting. Now it will be found an excellent rule, always to employ general, in preference to local blood-letting, in such cases of local disease or injury as are attended with, or have created, a disturbance of the general system. Whereas, local bleeding ought to be employed in preference when local symptoms only exist; any general symptoms, had they been present, having been subdued by previous general bleeding. A person, for instance, receives a blow upon the head, which creates a good deal of symptomatic fever. He is bled more or less profusely at the arm, and until the febrile symptoms are subdued. A good deal of inflammation of the integuments, however, still continues, to remove which leeches may be judiciously applied. The same observation may be made in the treatment of almost every injury and disease, in which bleeding is neces- sary. The most frequent error committed in the treatment of those diseases which require blood-letting, is, that local bleeding is employed where general bleeding ought to have been preferred. The reverse practice is seldom adopted ; and there seems always a disposition both in patients and in medical men, to eco- nomise blood, venesection being unfortunately considered a much more serious operation than the application of leeches ; hence leeches are often injudiciously preferred. In many in- stances of persons who have repeatedly lost blood, from having commenced with local, in place of general bleeding, the consequence is not only that the disease is not so soon checked as if a copious general bleeding had been employed in the first instance, but from the necessity of resorting to a frequent repeti- tion of local and general bleeding afterwards, the whole quantity abstracted greatly exceeds what would have been required for the cure of the disease, had the treatment commenced with an adequate venesection. Leeches are in a more especial manner pre- ferable to general bleeding in all cases of local injury, before the accession of fever. When a part is bruised, the whole frame receives a shock in proportion to the severity of the accident, and no sooner does the system re- cover, and reaction take place, than the bruised part becomes more or less tense and painful, which symptoms indicate the commencement of inflammation. If in this state a sufficient number of leeches be applied to the parts, the inflammation will be immediately subdued; and if they be again and again applied, without delay, and in numbers proportionable to the severity of the injury whenever there is any return of pain and swelling, the inflammatory symptoms are completely held in check, and all the evils of the accident are averted. A gentleman fell from his horse, and severely bruised the elbow-joint, and surrounding soft parts. Leeches w'ere employed immediately after he recovered from the shock occasioned by the injury, which, along with fomentations and poultices, afforded great relief; but when- ever the bleeding ceased, pain and a feeling of tension returned. More leeches were then applied, and were repeated whenever the bleeding from the preceding wounds ceased, and the pain returned ; so that in four days preceding one hundred and eighteen leeches were applied. In this manner, and on this principle, have I, by the repeated applica- tion of leeches, kept up a constant oozing of blood from injured parts, until every inflam- matory symptom has been completely checked and subdued. When this system of treatment is not em- ployed early, almost immediately after the effects of the shock have passed away, and time is given to the inflammatory symptoms and a febrile disturbance of the system to su- pervene, then the treatment must commence with general bleeding, conducted on the prin- ciples which I shall afterwards endeavour to point out. Local bleeding, when employed, even when there has not been any unnecessary delay, after the infliction of an injury, is not always suf- ficient to prevent the accession of febrile symp- toms, especially when the injury has been severe, and the injured parts have an important