ERYSIPELAS. 156 Diagnosis. — Simple erysipelas is distin- guished from measles by the superficial and punctuated redness of this eruption ; from scarlatina by the general and raspberry coloured redness of this exanthema, and from both these eruptions by the absence of the other respective constituent elements of these diseases. Accidental cutaneous inflammations differ in their causes, march, and extent, re- maining limited to the surface upon which the cause that produced them had acted. Numerous characters seem to separate erysi- pelas from other cutaneous diseases. In these the special form, vesicula, bullae, &c., generally precedes the redness, while in erysipelas, should it assume any of these appearances, the redness always precedes their appear- ance ; besides, the inarch, duration, &c., of these affections constitute differential charac- ters that will remove every doubt. Some authors 1 have identified erythema with ery- sipelas, and consider it but as a first and lighter grade of the disease. But the absence of pain and tumefaction in erythema, which is also more superficial and often disposed in iso- lated patches, as well as its march and termi- nation, are sufficient reasons to separate these affections. Erythema nodosum may at first be confounded with phlegmonous erysipelas, but the circumscribed tumors of erythema nodosum, the mildness of the general sym- ptoms and its constant termination by resolu- tion, soon establish a well marked line of de- marcation between them. The disproportion between the apparently unimportant local state and the extreme gravity of the general disturbance distinguishes phlebitis. The red serpentine streaks, the disseminated patches, and the ganglionary engorgements, render an- geioleucitis easily recognizable. See An- geioleucitis. The primitive hardness, the circumscribed redness, the rounded relief, the throbbing pain, the limited abscess, and the regular progress to the surface, easily charac- terize phlegmon. Dr. Duncan has written an excellent article on “ diffuse inflammation of the cellular texture2,” a kind of erysipelas ph/egmonatis sine erysipelate. In the inci- pient stage of this disease the absence of affection of the skin easily distinguishes it from phlegmonous erysipelas, but at an ad- vanced period the two diseases become com- pletely confounded. Prognosis. — Simple legitimate erysipelas, occurring in persons previously in a good state of health, almost always terminates favourably, and if fatal cases, Louis observes 3, have been recorded, the antecedent state of the patients was not fully appreciated and taken into account. In the aggravated forms of febrile accompaniment, the prognosis is de- ducible from the amount of general disturb- ' Lawrence, Roche ct Sanson, Nouveaux Elemens de Pathologie, &c., Rostan, Traite Elemcntairc de Diagnostic, de Pionostic, &c. 3 Transact, of Med.-Chirurg. Soc. of Edinburgh, vol. i. 3 Op. cit. ance, in the presence of which the local state sinks into very diminutive importance. It would be superfluous to enter into much detail on the subject of the prognosis, which is easily collected from what has been already said. The danger of complicated erysipelas, it need hardly be said, is dependent upon the seat, nature, and extent of the complication. Vague erysipelas that invades the entire peri- phery has been signalized as a very grievous disease, but the prognosis of it is subordinate to the same conditions that render stationary erysipelas dangerous, and Chomel has fre- quently seen it go through its stages without the smallest danger *. Erratic erysipelas may also present the same benignity of march and termination ; but its tendency to metastasis should never be overlooked in forming a prog- nosis, and the danger, in case of this retroces- sion, is in proportion to the importance of the organ affected and the amount of disturbance produced. Periodic erysipelas rarely presents any other gravity than that of frequently dis- turbing the system, and with respect to the eruption itself, each subsequent attack is gene- rally lighter than the preceding one, and in this sense the expression proto-erysipelatasus of Senert should be preserved. CEdematous erysipelas, occurring in constitutions deterio- rated by chronic febrile disease, or superven- ing in cases of long standing anasarca, is almost always an affection of ill omen. After the description that has been given of phlegmonous erysipelas, it is easy to form a just idea of the gravity of this disease, in which local ravages, often sufficient in themselves to cause death, are combined with a more griev- ous constitutional disturbance. Should the patient be lucky enough to escape from such an accumulation of dangers, indelible dis- figurement or mutilation may be his sorrowful lot. “ The skin, fascia, muscles, tendons, and bones,” writes Mr. Lawrence, “ are so unnatu- rally agglutinated and fixed after the exten- sive destruction of the connecting cellular texture, that the motions of the part are per- manently and sensibly impaired 3.” Phleg- monous erysipelas sometimes assumes in cac- hectic and deteriorated constitutions a kind of erratic character, appearing in close succes- sion on distinct and remote parts of the in- teguments, and is then the certain prelude of approaching dissolution. The prognosis of infantile erysipelas is al- ways serious, being almost always attended with the most fatal results, “ funesto ut plu- rimum eventu 3.” Bang in ten cases had six deaths 4, and Osterleben had but one cure in six cases 5. Senile erysipelas supervening in enfeebled old age is alwaj's a serious affection. 1 Op. cit. 3 Medico-Chirurgical Transact, of London, vol. xiv. 3 Hoffman, Op. cit. 4 Acta Nova Regia; Socictatis Medic® Havniensis, vol. i. 3 Heidelbcrgcr Kliuischc Annalen, and Gazette Med. an. 1832.