CALCULUS. 569 half a dram of the bicarbonate of potash or soda saturated with fresh lemon juice, three or four times a day with great advan- tage. Under this treatment the high tension of the system will give way ; the pulse will he subdued in force and fulness, the alimentary canal will he unloaded, and the urine from being strongly acid, deeply coloured, and highly charged with readily concrescible mat- ters, particularly lithic acid, will be rendered neutral or alkaline in its reaction, pale in co- lour, and copious in quantity, conditions ex- actly the reverse of those in which lithic acid is deposited, and indeed incompatible with its deposition. In the first period of a plan of treatment of this kind, it is not uncommon to see a consi- derable quantity of crystallized lithic acid dis- charged from the kidney, an event which has been observed to follow with considerable regularity upon the use of some of the ordi- nary diuretics, such as the turpentines. Whe- ther this discharge of lithic acid is to be regarded as critical, i. e., as the materies vtorbi eliminated from the system by the kid- ney, or as a simple expulsion from the pelves of the kidneys of a quantity of concrete foreign matter, has been made the subject of question among pathologists. In some cases there seems little reason to doubt of the critical nature of the discharge ; in others, it is ob- viously the effect of the mechanical and che- mical action of the diluents that are so uni- formly prescribed when red sand has been observed to be passed along with the urine. Should any thing like uneasiness continue in the region of the kidneys, after the measures which have been specified have been enforced for some days, it may be well to try the effect of one or two doses of turpentine. If they have the effect of bringing away a quantity of sabulous matter, the relief experienced by the patient is always great; and the good effects of the medicine may be secured by the subse- quent use of gentle aperients, diluents, regu- lated diet, &c. We are not aware that serious mischief has ever actually happened from the attempts which are sometimes made, at all hazards, to induce such an elimination of lithic acid from the kidney, by combining the tere- binthinate diuretic medicine with muriatic acid and opium. It seems just possible, however, that a course of this kind might lay the foun- dation of a renal calculus, with all its imme- diate and prospective miseries. We can hardly conceive a case, therefore, in which we should be inclined to adopt it; certainly not one in which we should persevere with it longer than a day or two. We have better than purely empirical grounds to go upon in the treatment of such cases. Should we be able to trace the morbid state of the kidney to local injury, should it even have supervened upon severe fatigue, in which the reins (the lumbar regions) were especially sufferers, as after hard riding, the affection may with benefit be regarded as being, to a very considerable extent, local in its nature. In this case, the repeated application of leeches or cupping-glasses to the loins, and then the insertion of a seton,will be proper, and hardly fail to prove of service. Indeed, a3 often as we observe repeated attacks of nephritic pain on one side, associated with a lithic state of the urine, we shall be justified in looking par- ticularly to the state of the organ immediately affected; and recent experience has shown that even the most deeply seated of the inter- nal organs are very much more under the con- trol of the remedial effects of counter-irrita- tion than could readily, a priori, have been imagined. The state of system which is proclaimed by the secretion of urine loaded with lithic acid, is one that is almost always much benefited by a course of mercurial alteratives and gentle aperients, continued for a considerable length of time. Four or five grains of the Plum- mer’s or blue pill every other night, or twice a week, followed by a senna draught with Rochelle salts in the morning, will be found to have immense influence; and with the regulated diet, principally consisting of farina- ceous articles, and the other items in the treat- ment which have been indicated, would ap- pear to be possessed of power enough even to eradicate the disposition to the peculiar mor- bid state under discussion, But there is another, and, as it might be truly called, specific plan of treatment that ought not to be neglected in the lithic diathesis. This consists in the exhibition of the alkaline bicarbonates in a state of large dilution, or in a course of one of the mineral waters which contains a bicarbonated alkali among its saline ingredients. Sulphur is hardly if at all more potent against scabies, than the alkaline bicarbonates are influential against a disposition in the urine to deposit lithic acid. Taken at proper times, and dis- solved in plenty of water, these salts are per- fectly innocuous, and may be continued for months, and even years, not only without in- jury, but in many cases with great benefit to the general health. From half a dram to a dram of the bicarbonate of potash or soda (the soda is probably the more germane to the sys- tem) dissolved in from three quarters of a pint to a pint of thin mucilaginous fluid, should be taken two or three times a day according to circumstances, at periods as remote as possible from those at which meals are taken. Imme- diately before or immediately after a full meal, a large dose of either of these salts will not fail to interfere with the important process of digestion. Schwann1 found that they de- stroyed the peculiar faculty of the Pepsin or the digestive element. Administered at the distance of two hours before a meal, they are 1 Uebcr <las Wesen des Verdauungs-Processes Ben.; also Mueller's Physiology, transl. by Baly, p. 545.