CLUB-FOOT. 785 deficiency has not, however, been confirmed by the observation of others. The opinions of MM. Guerin and Duval, and Dr. Little coincide, in the main, with the views of Stromeyer ; but they go beyond him in applying the principle above developed, in- asmuch as they agree in ascribing all deformity actively produced, and superadded to simple retraction of the heel (talipes equinus), to the agency of other muscles affected by the same circumstances, which have given rise to unnatural action of the gastrocnemii. Convinced that much light is thrown upon the nature and causes of congenital club-foot bjr a consideration of the circumstances under which it is acquired after birth, Dr. Little thus illustrates his opinion : “ In the first place, we will take a case originating from paralysis of the anterior tibial muscles. Here the remote injury, the cause of paralysis, is the same as that of paralysis of other parts of the body ; namely, inflammation and the effu- sion of blood, or sero-sanguineous or serous fluid, in some part of the brain or spinal cord, which compresses or otherwise injures the delicate texture of that part of the nervous centre whence the affected muscles derive their nerves. The posterior muscles of the leg (those of the calf in particular) having lost their natural antagonists, become firmly and permanently contracted, by the constant action of their involuntary contractile power, by which the heel is raised from the ground, con- stituting talipes equinus. At an early period of the disease, this contraction may be over- come by forcibly bending the foot wdth the hand ; but this after a time becomes impos- sible. “ The other case, that of a talipes originat- ing from spasm, admits of a different explana- tion. The remote cause resides either in the central organs of the nervous system (most probably in the spinal marrow), or it is a dis- ease existing in some other organ of the body, affecting peripheral parts of the nervous sys- tem ; for instance, in some one of the viscera of the chest or abdomen, more probably of the latter. From this an injury is propagated to the central organ, and is reflected to certain muscles of the leg, which become spasmodi- cally contracted. In other words, there may be either some deviation from the healthy state in a part of the spinal marrow, where the roots of the motor nerves distributed to the muscles of the calf are implicated or irritated, causing them to become involuntarily con- tracted ; or there may exist elsewhere some disease, such as an irritation of the mucous membrane of the alimentary canal by improper or undigested food or worms, through which produced by external irritation, very different from the true spasmodic affection resulting from internal causes in the foetus. 2nd. The form of acquired club-foot deviates less from pes equinus, because the irregularity of muscular action commences at a time when the malleoli and ligaments of the tibio-tarsal articulation are sufficiently developed to keep the foot under the axis of the tibia.” VOL. X. filaments of nerves (named by Dr. Hall inci- dent) are excited. These communicate in the spinal cord with other filaments—the reflex, or involuntary motor nerves, whereby the muscles of the calf are excited to spasmodic action. “ In this explanation of the production of a non-congenital talipes, I have confined myself to the most simple and intelligible form of the talipes equinus. The t. varus differs only in depending on paralysis or spasm of a larger number of muscles. When paralysis is the cause, the peronei muscles have lost their power, as well as the anterior tibial and long extensor muscles of the toes. If spasmodic contraction be the cause, the posterior tibial muscle, long flexor muscle of the great toe, those of the sole of the foot, and sometimes the tibialis anticus muscle, are partially in- volved in the production of the deformity. “ 1 have here defined the manner in which I consider talipes to arise after birth. Any cause, whether paralytic or spasmodic, by which the equilibrium between different sets of muscles, that are naturally antagonists, is disturbed, produces the distortion" vulgarly called club-foot. “ Other causes, viz. those which produce a shortening of the muscles and other soft parts upon one side of the leg, by disturbing, al- though in a different manner, the antagonism of the muscles, are capable of producing defor- mities similar to those belonging to the genus talipes. I have had under my care two ex- amples of the ankle-joint rigidly fixed in the extended position ; in one instance the heel having been raised three inches, and in the other from five to six inches, in consequence of the contraction of numerous cicatrices on the back of the leg, resulting from the healing of abscesses, accompanied with loss of substance through sloughing and necrosis. Another cause of the shortening of the muscles on the back of the leg arises from the long confine- ment of patients to bed, during the union of some kinds of fractures, or during the repara- tion of other injuries. I have also met with a case of permanent elevation of the heel pro- duced by the ankle-joint having been too tightly secured by mechanical apparatus, and continued too long in the extended position, for the union of a ruptured tendo acliillis. The contraction had also been increased by the patient having worn high-heeled shoes.” The last causes referred to produce only a spurious variety of the deformity. “ Having thus offered my opinions,” con- tinues Dr. Little, “ of the causes of those deformities of the feet which take place after birth, and stated the identity of their symp- toms and morbid anatomy with those of the club-foot with which children are born, the probability will, I think, appear obvious that the remote causes are the same : but there are other phenomena connected with the history of these affections which render the accuracy of these opinions almost capable of demonstra- tion. Foetuses which have suffered some evi- 3 E