EMPHYSEMA. 88 abandoned by the patient; he is obliged to sit up in bed, with his legs hanging over the side, and his head and trunk bent forwards, or the only bearable position may be on the hands and knees. The cheeks and lips as- sume a livid hue, the latter are occasionally so swollen as to prevent altogether the passage of liquids ; articulation becomes difficult, or even impossible 1 ; the face is bathed in cold perspiration ; jactitation and slight convul- sions supervene ; and if the disorder be left to itself, or increase in spite of remedial mea- sures, the pulse grows weak, small, and irre- gular, the extremities cold, and—generally after a slight remission in the intensity of the dyspnoea—the patient dies asphyxiated. This is no exaggerated picture of the sufferings we have witnessed in certain cases of emphysema ; but it would be an extreme error to ascribe more than a very small share in the production of these to the infiltration of air into the cel- lular membrane; they were in reality mainly dependent upon co-existing haemopneumo- thorax and pneumonia. That abundant accu- mulation in the cellular tissue must—this is even manifest a priori—increase the intensity of the asphyxial phenomena, is demonstrated by the fact, that artificial emphysema alone has been known—as in a case to be presently referred to—to produce alarming symptoms. The effect of emphysema on the respiration in such—and indeed in all—cases must be modified by the healthy or diseased condition of the lungs at the time of its occurrence. The physical signs of emphysema have already been enumerated ; those of pneumo- thorax are detailed in the article descriptive of that lesion. No time should be lost in emphysematous cases in ascertaining the con- dition of the lung and pleura of the affected side ; and care must be taken to press the skin firmly down, so as to prevent, as far as possible, the crackling sound of the cellular membrane interfering with the signs furnished by the pulmonary tissue, or by the pleura: themselves. In many cases, however, in spite of this precaution, it will be found next to impossible to obtain any accurate information from auscultation. A few notices of the au- dible phenomena produced by the passage of the air into the emphysematous parts are to be found in authors. Thus, Begin states, .that, in a case of emphysema caused by frac- ture of the fifth and sixth ribs, “ each expira- tion was attended with a sort of internal sibilus, resembling that produced by the action of a bellows.” Dupuytren observed an em- physematous swelling, also caused by frac- tured ribs, which increased considerably in size during inspiration, and became depressed during expiration 2. Here a gurgling sound, 1 Dupuytren. 2 The enlargement of the swelling (hiring inspira- tion, observed in this case, would appear to afford an argument against the opinion stated at p. 81, that the escape of air into the cellular membrane occurs during expiration. The pleurae were, however, closely and firmly adherent in Dupuytrcn’s patient, which, of course, altered the manner of escape of the air. detected on auscultation, announced an accu- mulation of air and liquid in the pleurae ; the latter was after death found to consist of blood. In Dr. Duncan’s case, already alluded to, “air was heard rushing into all the tumours, with very distinct pectoriloquism in that on the neck above the clavicle, and in the other upon the sternum.” In a case of fractured rib and wound of the lung, attended by Mr. J. Sym, “ no crepitation or discontinuity of surface in the rib was discovered by the touch, but a distinct jerk communicated to the ear, as the chest began to expand for each new inspira- tion. The air was heard in the emphysema- tous swelling moving along with a crackling sound ; the respiratory sound, transmitted from the lungs, was loud and vocal. No pectoriloquy existed; and the sound, on percussion, was natural.” On the third day, the patient’s state became most alarming, the emphysema had spread exten- sively, and Mr. Sym at first suspected that the severity of the symptoms was owing to advanced pneumothorax ; but, “ upon apply- ing the stethoscope, he perceived the respira- tory sound distinctly down to the very seat of the injury, where it was loudly sibilous.” The lung had certainly been wounded, for there wras bloody expectoration. The absence of pneumothorax, indicated by the physical signs, of course proved the fact of non-col- lapse of the lung. This non-collapse was, in all probability, caused by vesicular emphy- sema (the patient had been asthmatic for twelve years), and by pleuritic adhesion. The case strikingly illustrates the value of auscul- tation under the circumstances ; for, had the performance of the proposed operation of paracentesis not been prevented by the disco- very of the position of the lung, that organ would undoubtedly have been perforated. Diagnosis.—The diagnosis of subcutaneous emphysema can rarely present any difficulty. Artificial inflation of the scrotum (admitting that it is not distinguishable from an effect of disease by the anatomical condition of the parts, which it certainly requires all the weight of Heunen’s experience to make us believe probable) may be known by the opening in the skin, as well as, in some instances at least, by the contradictory statements of the malin- gerer, respecting the symptoms and course of the disease with which he feigns himself affected '. Circumscribed emphysema is dis- tinguishable from false aneurism by the ab- sence of fluctuation and ecchymosis, and by the crepitation produced by pressure being infinitely better marked than when blood is the fluid effused. Desault wras for a while uncertain respecting the nature of the tumour in his case of reduction of the humerus ; but it seems necessary only to be acquainted with the possibility of emphysema occurring, to be safe from the error of supposing the swelling caused by rupture of, and effusion from, the axillary artery. 1 In this way Hamilton (loc. citand.) was enabled to detect the fraud.