332 FRACTURE. which, I think, should rather be considered as a diastasis. It occurred in the person of a youngish man, who received a very severe injury over the part, but had no paralysis. H is health appeared to decline, with febrile symptoms, and he died many months after the accident, without any symptom of the disease of the spinal marrow. The processus den- tatus was found detached from the body of the second vertebra, with some little lateral displacement. The broken surfaces, when macerated, were rough and minutely spongy, but not cancellated or dense. Around their apposed edges were some slight masses of ossific separation attached to the body of the vertebrae. Here the want of due coaptation, though slight, was sufficient to prevent ossific union. The three bones of which the os innomi- natum originally consists, are not united into one till towards the eighteenth or twentieth year; before which they may be forcibly separated from one another. M. Dupuytren speaks of a case in which the bones forming the cotyloid cavity had been forced in, and the head of the femur had passed completely into the cavity of the pelvis. At a very early period of life the sternum consists of two lateral halves, which soon unite at the middle suture, and of several transverse pieces, which are often not soldered together till about the age of puberty. These pieces are sometimes separated by violence at the transverse junctions. (See Luxations.) The costal cartilages are liable to be separated at their articulations with the ribs, constituting an injury of the same nature as that of which we are speaking. The rule laid down for the treatment of dislocation of the costal cartilage, by Sir A. Cooper, is applicable to all these cases. He directs the surgeon to desire the patient to make a full inspiration, and then to press the cartilage into its place. When the chest is well expanded by a full inspiration, the projecting cartilage can always be re- placed without much difficulty. The reduc- tion is to be maintained by a piece of moist- ened pasteboard secured over the injured part by compress, and a broad flannel bandage passed round the chest so firmly as to throw the work of respiration on the diaphragm. The separation of the epiphyses from the shafts of long bones, in consequence of vio- lence inflicted at the time of birth, or in early life, is frequent; and the danger, that the accident will be overlooked or mistaken for dislocation or fracture, great; and it is there- fore of much consequence that the practi- tioner should be prepared with precise ana- tomical knowledge of the various situations in which the accident may occur, and atten- tive to examine every case in which there is a probability that the lesion has taken place. The only symptom on which we can rely is the existence of unnatural mobility in the bone, at the point where anatomy informs us the epiphysis is united to its shaft. If the accident be overlooxed, and the patient be allowed to use the limb, there is much risk of his being crippled. In the upper extremity, separations of the head of the humerus, the condyles, and lower extremity of the same bone, and the lower extremity of the radius, are the more frequent: in the lower extre- mity, the injury is most common at the head of the femur, and the condyles of the same bone. Sir Charles Bell1 says, “ I have known it occur in the humerus from a boy firing a musket ; in the head of the thigh- bone from a fretful child casting himself back- wards whilst held in the nurse's arms. I have found it in the lower head of the femur,—the leg of the boy having been caught in the spokes of the wheel whilst he was attempting to get upon the back of a carriage.” The sepa- ration by violence of the epiphyses forming the upper extremities of the radius and ulna, the trochanters, and that forming the head of the tibia, are more uncommon. The separation of the epiphyses that form the olecranon and great trochanter, may be caused either by external or muscular force. It is difficult to conceive that the lesser trochanter can be separated from the shaft of the femur, except by muscular contraction. I have once seen, in a lad, the epiphysis at the upper end of the first phalanx of the fore-finger, detached from the shaft. It is remarkable, that what pre- vents the more frequent occurrence of this accident is not so much the strength with which the epiphysis adheres to the shaft, as the support given to the junction between them by the periosteum. In dissecting these parts, before the time of consolidation ap- proaches, we find that the great cartilaginous nidus of an epiphysis seems to be nothing more nor less than a massive expansion of the periosteum of the shaft, on which they are superposed, or of the other masses or epiphysis to which they are destined to grow. In all the foregoing cases, the same general principles of treatment are to be applied as in fractures in the same situations. The reader will find some illustrative cases connected with the accounts of fractures of particular bones. (J. Macdonnell.') After a careful study of the more general facts and principles relating to fractures, the reader will be prepared to enter with advan- tage upon the consideration of PARTICULAR FRACTURES. The following appears to be the most sim- ple systematic arrangement of the parts liable to fractures: The bones of the spine, cranium, face, larynx, thorax, arm, pelvis, and leg. 1 Institutes of Surgery, vol. i. p. 3.