723 CATARACT. operators were only used in making a punc- ture through the cornea, the incision being afterwards enlarged to a sufficient extent by means of scissors. The incision necessary for the exit of the lens being of considerable size, a semicircular flap of the cornea must be formed, extending to more than half its circumference. So far as regards the size and form of the incision, it may be made either downwards, upw-ards, or diagonally; but one or other of these directions maybe the best, according to particular circum- stances. The incision is formed at the distance of about 5*,th of an inch from the margin of the cornea, and parallel to it. The operation con- sists of four periods or stages. First, the introduction of the knife through the cornea ; second, the completion of the incision ; third, the opening of the capsule of the lens ; and, fourth, the displacement and removal of the lens from the eye. As in the operations already described, some operators, being ambidexter, use the left hand in operating on the right eye, while others operate with the right hand on both eyes. In either case the incision of the cornea may be made downwards, upwards, or diagonally ; the only difference required being that of the direction given to the cutting edge of the knife. The cornea knife is to be held like a writ- ing pen, while the first and second fingers of the other hand are employed in keeping one of the eyelids from closing’ ; an assistant being employed to take charge of the other eyelid, and retaining it open by pressing it against the margin of the orbit. The assistant is to avoid making any pressure on the eye- balls, but the operator is to place his middle finger upon the lacrymal caruncle and inner side of the eyeball, by which he will make such pressure as will be necessary for keeping the eyeball steady, and preventing it from rolling inwards towards the nose. The ope- rator must also regulate the pressure on the eyeball according to circumstances, and the different stages of the operation. In farther describing the different parts of this operation, we shall suppose, that the left is the eye to be operated upon, and that the incision is to be made downwards, through the lower part of the cornea. The patient having been properly prepared for the operation in the manner formerly men- tioned, may either be seated, or placed in a reclining posture. Regarding the artificial dilatation of the pupil, previous to the opera- tion of extraction, there has been a diversity of opinion among surgeons ; little advantage being derived from it, on account of the act of incising the cornea causing the pupil to contract. Some operators, indeed, consider the dilatation of the pupil positively hurtful, by tending to produce prolapsus of the iris after the operation. The patient being properly placed, his ' Sonic operators, liv practice, are able to keep botli eyelids open without the aid of an assistant. head, eyelids, and eyeball being held steady by an assistant and the operator in the man- ner already described, he may draw the back of the knife across the cornea, in order that the patient may not start on the actual application of the instrument to puncture the eye : the eye is generally steady after this preliminary application of the knife. When it is not so applied the patient frequently starts, and the eye moves at the moment the surgeon applies the point of the knife to the cornea. First stage or period.—This consists in pe- netrating the cornea with the knife, pushing it across the eye, and puncturing the opposite side of the cornea, where the point makes its exit, as represented in fig. 23. The partof the cornea at which the knifeisto be entered, is at the temporal side of the eye, a little above its transverse diameter, and at the distance of about the twentieth part of an inch from the margin of the cornea, the edge of the knife being directed towards the lower part of the cornea'. The point of the knife being directed towards the centre of the vitreous humour is now to be introduced so as to penetrate through the substance of the cornea; this direction of the knife being ne- cessary to prevent the point passing between its layers. Whenever the point of the knife has fairly entered into the anterior chamber its direction is to be altered : it is now to be directed horizontally across the eye, parallel to the surface of the iris. The knife is then to be pushed quickly forwards, without delay or hesitation, till its point reaches the oppo- site side of the cornea, at a point on the nasal side, corresponding to that on the temporal side, at wrhich the knife was made to enter, being at the distance of a line from the mar- gin. By continuing the motion of the knife forwards, it is made to penetrate through the nasal side of the cornea from within outwards. This is called, the counter-punctuation of the cornea. In completing this first stage or counter- punctuation of the cornea the knife cannot be carried too swiftly across the eye, in order that the aqueous humour may not be prema- turely evacuated. Gentle pressure may be made to keep the eyeball steady, and the operator should not suspend the motion of the knife forwards, till the point of it has projected from about one eighth to a quarter of an inch beyond the counter-puncture of the cornea. This is the situation of the knife represented in fig. 23. All pressure is now to be removed from the eyeball, and the ope- rator may pause in the movement of the knife. Pressure on the eyeball is now unne- cessary, as the operator, having the eye trans- fixed by the knife, can keep it steady, and 1 It is an advantage to rub a little almond oil over the point of the knife, as this makes it cut more smoothly, and with greater facility. The point and edge of the knife should be proved by passing it through a piece of very thin leather; if it does not pass quite readily through, and without any grating sound, it is unfit for the purpose. 3 A 2