38 ABSCESS. this plan has been resorted to before any fluctuation is perceptible in the tumour it will not be improper to persevere in it, even after the matter is formed. The propriety of this mode of treatment will be still more obvious, if we suppose a case in which the previous local irritation, being moderate, the progress towards suppuration is slow, and matter is formed in the centre of the tumour, while its circumference presents still an engorged and hard circle. In such a case, the maturation of the abscess, and preparation for its speedy cicatrization, will be best provided for by local depletion, emollients, &c. The original irrita- tion, as well as that still kept up by the pre- sence of pus, and the engorgement of the sur- rounding tissues, upon which the reaccumn- lation of the matter so mainly depends, will thus be most efficiently combated. The same reasoning, resting upon the same data, obtains, in relation to the absorption of the matter in the symptomatic abscess ; for when in conse- quence of diseased bone, either in a vertebra, or the articular head of a bone, matter is formed and directed in various courses to- wards the surface, the abscess is but a compli- cation added to the primitive affection, a con- secutive extension of the inflammatory process into new tissues : but if it was deemed proper before the pointing of an abscess in a distant part, that the primitive affection in the verte- bras, or the articulation, should be combated by the insertion of issues on each side of the spinal column, or in the neighbourhood of the joint, by blisters, rest, and the exhibition of internal remedies suited to the constitution of the patient, the formation of the consecutive abscess would form no just ground for depart- ing from a plan of treatment upon which the cure, and the absorption of the matter itself, may ultimately if not wholly depend. The formation of matter, therefore, in a part w hich is suffering from irritation, w'hich may have been combated by capillary depletion, fur- nishes no indication against the continuance of such treatment; a counter indication to the practice can only arise from the general state of the patient. There are tw'o kinds of abscesses which are little or not at all disposed to this sort of termi- nation : the one, the acute and rapidly formed abscess, accompanied w'ith all the inflamma- tory phenomena in a high degree ; collections of this kind quickly point, and either burst, or require evacuation : the other, the chronic abscess with thickened cyst. This condition of tissue must be modified by a different mode of stimulation, before agglutination of the sides of the abscess can take place. In some subjects, who have been enfeebled by disease, or in whom the lymphatic temperament prevails, there appears to be a ready disposi- tion, a diathesis, to the formation of pus. In such cases, the facility with which the pus is resorbed is quite as remarkable as that with which it is formed, and all the secretions con- curring in the elimination of the matter, seem, while the process is taking place, to put on a puriform character. A secondary irritation supervening in the secreting sur- faces or organs, the slight local irritation which preceded the formation of the matter seems to be extinguished, the collection is dispersed, and the matter is eliminated by the ordinary channels of the economy. There arc, besides, certain circumstances which should have due weight with the sur- geon, even when he does not entertain the hope of being ultimately successful in effecting the absorption of the matter; it will not for ex- ample be proper to open an abscess, when once the matter is formed, in a person of decided lymphatic or scrofulous habit, without before- hand employing such general and medical treatment, as will usefully modify such con- stitutions. The evacuation of the matter in these cases is subordinate to the restoration of the vital energies, and will be attended with the best results, only when the general amendment of the patient shall have been fully provided for. Opening of Abscess and subsequent Dressing. —Let us now suppose that all our efforts to prevent the formation of matter, or to procure its absorption when formed, have been fruit- less ; the question of the time and mode of opening the abscess naturally arises, and is of considerable importance, as certain abs- cesses require to be opened before they are matured, while the evacuation of others may be beneficially retarded. The opening of an abscess is urgent , nay can- not be safely delayed, when it has been produced by the extravasation from their natural reser- voirs or channels of the soft or fluid secretions of the body, such as the urine, faeces, blood, tears, saliva, milk, bile, &c. (see Urinary and Ster- coral Abscess.) The termination in such cases is but a mixed state of suppuration and gangrene. The surgeon must quickly prevent the extravasating matter from extending to parts still sound, at the peril of seeing the in- tegrity of those parts, and life itself destroyed. Mention has been already made of the gravity of certain abscesses developed in the walls of the great visceral cavities, in the groin, under the pectoral muscle, and in the vicinity of the great articulations ; to these may be added, collections in the neighbourhood of the larynx, pharynx, and trachea, which impede the free functions of respiration and deglutition. When matter is formed under the strong fibro-cellu- lar fascia, behind the sterno-cleido-mastoid muscle, the strength of this fascia is so great, that the matter is pent narrowly up, producing excessive tension and pain, and the pus must fuse under the clavicle, towards the upper part of the chest or axilla. An early evacuation in all such cases is obviously desirable, and even necessary, to save the patient from the danger of irruption into the internal cavities, or from the irnminency of suffocation. In the same order we should also class those collections, which, being accompanied with high inflamma- tory phenomena, are developed rapidly in parts abounding in the adipose and cellular element, such as the vicinity of the rectum, the margin of the anus, the groins, the axillary 15