192 FISTULA, INTESTINAL. materially to secure the future safety of the patient. If the gangrene involve only a small por- tion of the calibre of the intestine, the ali- mentary contents escape only in part through the sac, the remainder pursuing its natural course. When a larger portion of the tube, or an entire loop is removed, the whole of the contents usually, for some time, escape by the wound ; but after a period, varying from a few days to several weeks, small quantities of feculent matter begin to pass by the anus; by degrees these natural discharges increase, and in the same ratio the evacuations from the wound diminish. It was formerly supposed that, when the intestinal con- tents were thus resuming their natural course, the two open extremities of the intestine became gradually turned towards each other, and at last were so opposed that the feculent matter passed directly from the superior into the inferior portion of the canal. The fallacy of this opinion has been ably exposed by Scarpa', who has shown that the apertures of the intestine which has been divided by gangrene, are “ constantly placed in a parallel line to each other that the superior orifice is always kept in a state of dilatation by the passage of feculent matters ; and that it is likewise pushed outwards, or towards the wound, whilst the lower aperture has a con- stant tendency to diminish in size, and to retire within the cavity of the abdomen. The contraction of the external wound exerts no influence whatever in producing a movement of approximation of the two orifices ; on the contrary, Scarpa has proved, by the dissection of the following cases, that it is a totally different process whereby restoration of the canal is accomplished. A man1 2, twenty-two years of age, was brought into the hospital at Pavia with hernia of the tunica vaginalis of the left side. On opening the tumour, it was found to contain a small portion of omentum, and a long loop of gangrenous ileum, which was cut away after the stricture had been divided. The feces escaped from the wound, and the sloughs separated. On the fourteenth day the feces began to pass in part by the anus. On the twenty-fourth and twenty-fifth days, the patient, in consequence of irregularity in diet, was attacked by violent colic, which returned on the thirty-first day, when the wound dilated, and allowed of the discharge of a great quantity of feculent matter and several intestinal worms. On the forty- second day, the wound was nearly cicatrized, and there were only discharged from it a few drops of feculent matter. In nine months, after eating immoderately of cray-fish, imper- fectly cleansed of their shells, he was again attacked with severe pains in the bowels, and in a short time died. On the body being 1 Treatise on Hernia, translated by Wishart, p. 299. 2 Op. citat. p. 300. opened, there appeared in the abdomen a copious effusion of fluid feculent matter, which had escaped from a perforation of the ileum, through which some shells of cray-fish were seen hanging into the abdomen. The diameter of the ileum, for a considerable ex- tent towards the stomach, was three times greater than natural; the lower portion of this intestine was evidently contracted, and its orifice drawn more inwards than that of the upper portion. The two divided por- tions of intestine met together at an acute angle opposite to the abdominal ring. The angle of union was firm and compact, and still more so from the omentum being placed over the part and adherent to it. The cor- responding portion of mesentery was also thicker and firmer than usual. After having removed the parts from the body, Scarpa found that the peritoneum in the neighbour- hood of the ring was adherent to the portion of the intestinal tube which had been un- affected by the gangrene, and that it ex- tended like a membranous funnel from the cavity of the abdomen through the aponeurotic ring into the fistulous tube which opened ex- ternally at the groin. There could be no Fig. 250. Membranous funnel formed by the hernial sac. a, Upper portion of intestine. b, Lotvcr portion of intestine. c, Hernial sac. d, d, Edges of the opening in the intestine adherent to the neck of the sac. e, Projecting ridge. doubt that this membranous cavity extending through the inguinal canal, was the same which previously formed the hernial sac, since it was evidently a prolongation of the great membranous bag containing the viscera. On laying open the ileum near to the mesen- tery, a probe was introduced into the small aperture in the groin, as far as the mem- branous funnel, and from thence into the superior portion of intestine. Scarpa thereby ascertained the direct way which the feculent matter had taken when it was discharged