CALCULUS. 568 lithates are deposited is a common conse- quence of a chill of the body. The county of Norfolk presents generally an exposed and open surface ; the alternations of temperature are great and sudden, and there is no district in England over which the east wind, the dread of the invalid and person of susceptible nervous system, sweeps more constantly or more search- ingly than over Norfolk. Suppressions of the cutaneous exhalation, combined with the kind of food generally used, are in all likelihood the potent cause of those derangements of the urinary secretion, which lead to the super- abundant elaboration, and deposit of some of its suspended, or dissolved but readily con- crescible ingredients, within the body in that division of this country. Free action of the skin seemsalmost incompatible with the copious elaboration or deposition of lithic acid or the lithates. Dr. W. Philip, in his experiments already referred to1 observed that the most acescent food, which, under ordinary circum- stances, had the effect of causing a plentiful deposit of lithic acid, had no such influence when the due action of the skin was main- tained by diaphoretics. Cold applied to the surface of the body does not merely increase the quantity of the watery menstruum elabo- rated ; the solid matters are also augmented in a very considerable proportion, in the ratio, namely, of three to two2. The immediate cause of the precipitation of the lithic acid, especially w'hen this takes place within the body, has been variously accounted for. Those who maintain that the acid exists in combination w ith ammonia, by which it is rendered more soluble, explain the occurrence readily through the agency of the free acid, which is always present in lithic urine. This free acid, say they, dispossesses the lithic acid of the base with which it is combined, and causes it to precipitate. The soundness of this explanation, however, is very question- able. First, the lithic acid separated from an alkaline base in this manner, is thrown down in a pulverulent or amorphous form, not in distinct crystals, as we perceive it to be, and when its consequences are alone to be appre- hended. Then, there are great doubts in re- gard to the nature of the acid which can be spared to have such an effect. Dr. Prout supposed the muriatic acid to be the agent; but this acid has never been shown to exist in the urine, save already saturated with bases— ammonia, potash, and soda. The phosphoric acid has enough to do in holding the lime with which it is associated in solution. The lactic acid, the free acid of the urine, according to Berzelius, has been shown by Wetzlar to be the least efficient of all the acids in causing the precipitation of lithic acid from its state of solution in the urine. Finally, it is all but certain that the explanation of the precipita- tion of lithic acid from the urine by the agency 1 Op. cit. p. 100. 2 Chossat in Journ. de Physiologie, torn. v. of any free acid is erroneous. If the lithate of ammonia often occurs in the urine, it is no less certain that the free and uncombined lithic acid occurs there too. Treatment.—The treatment of the lithic dia- thesis is happily perfectly understood, and the effects of well chosen remedial agents combined with attention to diet, &c. are probably, under no circumstances, worthy of more implicit reliance than when they are directed against the patho- logical state which is characterized by the deposition of lithic acid from the urine. As a preliminary, the circumstances surrounded by w'hich the patient lives, must be taken parti- cular note of, and all in these that is known to induce or to favour the malady from which he is suffering, must be removed." If he be a man in easy circumstances, or at all events accustomed to live highly, to drink some strong wine every day, to pass a sedentary or inactive life, engaged with his head rather than his hands, &c., he must be made aware of the con- nexion between his state and the kind of life he leads. He must be induced to abandon his very full regimen, to restrict himself greatly in the article of wine, and to give more occu- pation to his muscular system, and less to his brain. The proper functions of the skin ought farther to be secured by a due quantity of warm woollen clothing, and exposure to cold and piercing winds should be particularly avoided. It is not always possible, however, to wait for the tardy effects of regimen upon the pro- gress of disease ; the symptoms are sometimes urgent; gravelly deposition had probably taken place and was going on, before we were sum- moned, and to delay were to make our patient run the risk of stone in the kidney and blad- der. The state of system tending to this con- clusion must be immediately altered. The most speedy means we have of doing this, is to lower the tone of the system by blood-let- ting and brisk purgatives. General blood- letting is seldom necessary in the kind of cases we are considering, nor indeed is it always well borne by the persons who are their common subjects. But local bleeding by means of cupping from the lumbar regions, to the extent of eight or ten ounces, will prove eminently serviceable in almost every in- stance. This should be immediately suc- ceeded by the exhibition of a purgative dose of calomel combined with antimonial powder, the full effects of which will be secured by prescribing three or four drams of the soda tartarisata in infusion of senna, with half a dram of the vinum colchici, at the interval of an hour or two afterwards. These medi- cines ought to be repeated until the bowels are completely unloaded. The antiphlogistic regimen is meantime to be enforced ; the patient should have nothing beyond slops and light farinaceous food for several days. He maj', however, be encouraged to drink freely of rice or barley water, and he may take the common effervescing draught,—