ARM, BEND OF. 3G8 ous fibres which unite themselves to the ten- don of the biceps muscle. The brachialis muscle, by filling up the hollowed surfaces between tbe condyles of the arm-bone, gives a more regular form to this region ; nevertheless, the inner half of the lower end of the humerus, which extends lower down than the outside one, presents also a more prominent surface, called trochlea; this projecting surface being covered by the brachial muscle and pronator radii teres mus- cle, constitutes in a great measure the inner eminence of the arm which has been incor- rectly attributed to the flexor muscles of the fore-arm, which scarcely contribute to its size, owing to their superior origins being com- paratively small, pointed, and tendinous ; this projection is much larger in the male than in the female, on account of the greater muscu- lar and osseous development. When the biceps and brachialis muscles act together, the fore-arm is bent upon the arm, and each giv- ing aponeurotic fibres to the common sheath of the limb, must alike be considered tensors of the aponeurosis. When the biceps con- tracts slightly, its tendon becomes more pro- minent, the furrow at the bend of the arm disappears ; the brachialis muscle being inti- mately attached to the capsular ligament does not rise forward like the biceps tendon, and hence it produces but little visible change in the form of this region, when put into action. In fractures and dislocations, these two mus- cles may perform various offices ; if the neck of the radius be broken, the biceps will dis- place the lower fragment of the fractured bone and thus prevent its union ; if, on the contrary, as is commonly the case, the radius be fractured below the tubercle of the radius, the biceps by its contraction may draw the upper fragment of bone forward ; thus, it is quite wrong to lay down as a general rule, that in fractures of the superior third of the radius the biceps draws the upper fragment forwards. The brachialis muscle may act in a very similar way as regards fractures of the ulna and its coronoid process ; if the coronoid projection be alone broken off, this muscle, being inserted below it, may keep it down and prevent any displacement occurring ; and also render the diagnosis somewhat difficult ; may not this be the cause of such fractures escaping detection ? If the coronoid process be fractured with a small portion of the upper part of the ulna, situated below the insertion of the brachialis tendon, then, this muscle will pull up the superior extremity, while the tri- ceps will tend to draw the olecranon upwards and backwards, and thus produce dislocation of the humerus forwards, or the ulna alone, backwards, which is most commonly the case. From not attending to the exact situation of the insertion of the brachialis tendon, a com- mon mistake has -likewise arisen, that when “ the coronoid process of the ulna is broken off, there is nothing to counteract the action of the triceps muscle, and the ulna must be drawn backwards and upwards this will evidently occur when the coronoid process is separated from the ulna below the insertion of the brachialis muscle. In luxations of the radius backwards upon the external condyle, or upon the side of the olecranon, which I believe is the more com- mon case, the biceps, by contracting, may con- siderably increase the displacement and cause the head of the radius to press against the skin, where it is almost destitute of adipose tissue, and may easily produce its mortifica- tion. The action of the biceps muscle will also tend to increase the displacement of the head of the radius in its luxations forwards upon the pulley-like surface of the humerus, and probably in part prevents dislocation of the radius upon the coronoid process taking place, owing to its contraction drawing the bone im- mediately upwards ; besides, the thick end of the brachial muscle also prevents the head of the radius from lying upon this part of the ulna; nevertheless, some surgeons seem to think that this sort of dislocation is frequently met with. I have examined several specimens of luxations of this bone, but have not yet seen this sort of displacement. In luxations of the humerus forwards it is principally the brachial and biceps muscles which limit its displacement, and offer an impediment to the extremity of the bone passing down the fore- arm, or through the integuments ; in this action, these muscles may be opposed by the violent contractions of the triceps, which by pulling up the cubitus will increase the dis- placement of the humerus; hence in these dislocations, the biceps tendon and brachial muscle are put upon the stretch, especially the latter (a few fibres of which are probably always lacerated), as may be seen by refer- ring to a drawing (plate 24) of it in Sir A. Cooper’s work on dislocations. Some- times, however, the violence of these injuries is so great that the muscles no longer bar the progress of the humerus; they are torn through; the bone still advances, tears through vessels and nerves, and finally protrudes through the integuments. The annals of sur- gery record several such cases, and M. Cru- veilhier has lately published (p. 8, Fasciculus ix. of his Anat. Patholog.) a similar observation of an English lady who, falling from her horse, on the palm of her hand, sustained a com- pound luxation of the lower end of the hume- rus forwards ; the end of the bone protruded ; the brachial artery and veins were ruptured, which caused violent haemorrhage and syncope; nevertheless, the bone was reduced and the patient recovered. It is almost needless to observe how very important it is, in excision of the elbow-joint, to avoid if possible cutting away the insertion of this muscle. The brachial muscle, w'hich is closely con- nected to the capsular ligament by means of small tendinous fibres, may be partly con- sidered as a ligament to the joint, which per- haps also explains the reason why the ante- rior part of this articulation should be appa- rently so weak.