S3v/ FRACTURE. FRACTURES OF THE STERNUM. It happens rarely in civil occupations that the sternum is broken. Direct contusing vio- lence may divide the bone transversely at or near the junction of its first and second por- tions, and thus we may have either a luxation or fracture, or both. The elastic supports of the bone allow it to yield to a very consi- derable extent; and it cannot in general be broken without great violence, which some- times lacerates the skin, and often produces mischievous concussion, or even laceration, of the subjacent viscera. Occasionally, when perhaps one fragment has been much de- pressed, a quantity of blood infiltrates the tissue beneath. Emphysema has been pro- duced ; but, next to the visceral injuries, the inflammations, suppuration, and necrosis that may arise, are of the most common practical interest. The fracture may easily be detected by the touch; but the precise nature of the most common cases that occur, out of the field of battle, namely, separations of the two upper pieces, the lower being thrown forward, is not very easily discriminated with precision before death, by one unprepared to look for such an injury. We must be careful not to confound previously-existing deformity with the lesion of the sternum. The severer symptoms attendant upon this accident are nowise proper to it as a fracture; but the states on which they depend are almost among the necessary consequences of the great violence which must be inflicted before a sternum can become broken. Dyspnoea, cough, bloody sputa, inability to lie on the back, or on one side, and palpi- tation, are liable to arise; but rather as sequelte than direct consequences ;—and thus the op- pressive symptoms may gradually increase. They are here set down nearly in the order of their frequency, as well as in that of their urgency when combined. The last symptom of disturbance in the chest would seem to be altogether casual; and it, of course, refers to the heart (its right or left side, or both) as the rest do to the lungs. It is important to remark, that as the sufferer may have been subject to some of these affections, they are not necessarily indicative of internal aggra- vations of the mischief. Prognosis.—The principal danger from this injury, in itself, is from suppuration and necro- sis ; but the common danger is from subjacent lesions, or thoracic inflammations. On the whole the case should always be considered a very serious one. It is much more frequently fatal than not. A simple fracture of the sternum, with but slight displacement, is of very uncommon occurrence, and, comparatively, less danger- ous, and difficult of detection. Soap plaster, and rest, even from slight exertion in bed, may suffice for the local treatment; but a full bleeding and a week of abstinence at least, will be generally desirable, as also great attention to obviate, or arrest the progress of, inflammations in the chest. Displaced frag- ments demand some attempts to re-adjust them, but our manipulation may not always be successful. By acting on the clavicles above, and on the ribs below, considerable force of extension and counter extension may be ex- erted upon the fracture. Two assistants may be thus employed, while the surgeon uses as much force as he may think well at the seat of fracture, or towards the ensiform bone. Tension or relaxation of the sterno-mastoidei and abdominal muscles may assist in the re- placement. It has been recommended in cases where the displaced fragments of the sternum resist ordinary attempts at reduction, to cut down to the parts, and with saw or lever to make forcible reduction ; but such practices seem of very questionable propriety. (See Lux- ations.) There can be little hesitation as to the justice of removing loose fragments from an open fracture, and of endeavouring directly to replace others, that might else interfere with a fair restoration ; yet the surgeon should avoid needless interference, and for the first days consider chiefly the dangers of inflammation, fever, or confined matter. The ensiform bone, even where increased in advanced life, is too small and secluded to be often broken ; or when injured, to give occasion to considerable symptoms. It is not easy to detect the fracture, nor can it be of importance, except in connexion with other injuries. 'The surgeon should attend to the relaxation of muscles, and a belt should be applied. Any mischief that may break out in adjacent parts, as inflammation, should be guarded against ; and after a few days of strict confinement the patient may gradually return to common movements. In early life this bone may be separated as an epiphysis, which, comparatively, is a slight accident. fractures of the ribs. These are of very frequent occurrence', and especially those of the middle ribs, by reason of the length of the bones; while the lower ones, being more moveable and flex- ible, and the upper shorter and stronger, and more protected, are more rarely broken. The division of a rib occurs most easily near its greatest convexity. When one is struck by a point or corner, it will probably give way singly at the place of contact. It is most common, however, to find two or more ribs simultaneously fractured. These fractures are usually either simple, or complicated by lesions of the pleura and lung; yet even in the latter case, though caution is indispensable, serious mischief does not often ensue. 1 Mr. Lonsdale states that 357 cases of broken ribs occurred amongst 1900 cases of fracture which indis- criminately presented themselves at the Middlesex hospital; i. e. about T2r of the whole number. (Prac- tical Treatise on Fractures.) Z 2