AMPUTATION. 140 position. It is recommended by some sur- geons to elevate the stump, in order to pro- cure the complete relaxation of the muscles, and diminish the tendency of the blood to- wards the wound. This elevation, however, may be carried too far, and most probably the horizontal position, recommended by Hippo- crates, in which the limb approaches the state of semiflexion, is the best. In the larger amputations, the pain and loss of blood are sometimes so considerable, that the powers of the patient soon after the operation seem to be greatly depressed. It will be, therefore, proper to administer some anti-spasmodic or stimulant, and keep every thing about him in a state of perfect stillness, that the depression under which he labours may dispose him to sleep. It will be often found useful to fix, by straps or strong pins, the stump to the cushion on which it is supported, to obviate the agita- tion, twitching, and subsultus, which might else either interrupt or even prevent sleep alto- gether. Sometimes the spasms of the stump occasion great distress, preventing sleep for a long time, and exposing the patient to the misfortune of having a conical stump. When this is the case, recourse must be had to the free use of camphor and opium, to the com- pression of the limb with a bandage, and to the proper fixation and semiflexed position mentioned above. In the old methods of amputating, spasm was a very formidable oc- currence, often defying all control, and termi- nating in tetanus and death. After amputations as they are now performed, these spasms decline in general from the first day, when they are at the highest, to the fourth or fifth, when they generally disappear. It has been observed that those who, by an effort of heroic constraint, repress every ma- nifestation of suffering during the operation, are peculiarly predisposed to spasm. There is nothing surprising in this : the effort must greatly exhaust the nervous energy of the patient, and be thus conducive to nervous accidents. He should be directed not to im- pose too stern silence upon his pains; his cries of distress are not only natural, but assua- ging- The immediate union of the wound will be best favoured by keeping the stump cool. Cold, or iced water is employed for this purpose ; and some surgeons steep their compresses in water containing a certain portion of spirit. When the stump is kept wet, a large piece of oil-cloth should be made use of to protect the bed, Cold may be applied still more commo- diously by enveloping the stump in one or two bladders, partially filled with cold or iced water, to be changed for others when the temperature increases. One of the best topical refrigerants with which we are ac- quainted, is produced to hand by putting- powdered camphor between two pieces of cambric, and applying them wet. Accidents that may arise during the operation. —The most formidable of these is haemor- rhage. Notwithstanding the resources we possess in the tourniquet, compression by the hand of an intelligent assistant, the pad, key, &c., cases occur now and then, in which, from particular causes, a considerable quantity of blood may be lost. This may arise from a variety of causes: the means for preventing the haemorrhage may have been badly applied, or the individual case requiring the operation may be of such a nature, that they cannot be properly applied; or again, the tissues divi- ded may be so abundantly supplied with blood-vessels preternaturally dilated, that the compression is ineffectual. When the haemorrhage is so abundant as to endanger life, there is no time to be lost; the operation must be terminated as speedily as possible. Three or four of the principal bleed- ing vessels may be commanded by the assist- ants, while the surgeon applies rapidly and successively his ligatures ; or, if several tor- sion forceps be at hand, the mouths of the bleeding vessels may be locked in their beaks, and thus held until the surgeon can tie them at his ease. This, instrument will be found invaluable in these cases ; more especially in amputating on the field of battle, where the assistants are few in number. When the am- putation is performed with flaps, an assistant can make compression on the principal vessels, by grasping in both hands the whole mass of the flap itself, and ligatures may be applied at once, without waiting till the bone is sawed off. The haemorrhage may arise from the veins ; in which case, it may be caused by the com- pression made upon the limb. In a case in which one of the writers of this article per- formed an amputation of the thigh for a dis- eased knee-joint, with extensive ulceration, and abundant suppuration, no sooner was the tourniquet applied, than the venous blood, the return of which it prevented, burst out, in black and copious streams, from the ulcerated cavity at the joint. It has been recommended to tie the bleed- ing veins in such cases—a practice which ought, if possible, to be avoided. If the bleeding de- pends upon undue pressure, it will cease upon its removal. The return of the venous blood may also be checked by the patient’s straining and holding in his breath, in which case, he should be directed to breathe freely, and refrain from effort of every kind. It sometimes happens, when all the bleed- ing vessels have been tied, and the dressing is completed, that an oozing of blood takes place, or even some of the small vessels, that on exposure, had retracted, and immediately ceased to bleed, furnish blood afresh, as soon as the patient has become warm in bed. This effect of re-action requires to be carefully watched. Dupuytren, in order to obviate this occurrence, used to defer the dressings for several hours, in expectation, that on re- covering from the shock of the operation, these small vessels might be discovered and secured. It will be best, prevented by the application of cold to the stump. The bleed-