4G8 BISTOURY. quires caution and the contact of the extract with the denuded skin excites very acute pain, it must be diluted by rubbing down a given quantity, from two to eight grains, with some simple cerate, and permitting it to dis- solve gradually. In erysipelas it was first recommended by Hahnemann on homseopathic principles, rube- faction of the skin sometimes following its internal administration. Mr. Liston speaks highly of its curative powers in this disease, in doses of g gr., every four hours ; and his experience of its efficacy has been confirmed by others *. The agency of belladonna in producing di- latation of the pupil has been taken advantage of in order to facilitate the operation for cata- ract, whether by depression or extraction. Also, to prevent union of the edges of the wound after division of the iris in the opera- tion for artificial pupil. It is likewise resorted to, according to the recommendation of Himly, to enable the surgeon to satisfy himself of the non-existence of adhesion between the iris and capsule of the lens ; and was employed by Mr. Saunders to prevent the occurrence of this adhesion with the edges of the torn cap- sule, after his operation for depression, by in- troducing the needle through the cornea. M. Berard believes that it has a further effect in obviating the inflammation of the iris, so frequently a consequence of depression. Dilatation of the pupil for these several pur- poses is readily accomplished by rubbing the extract over the eyebrow and lid, or by drop- ping a solution of it in water into the eye. Finally, M. Lisfranc and others have found it of great service in allaying excessive sensi- bility of the eye in conjunctival inflammation. Reasoning from its action upon the iris, Chaussier tried the effect of a pommade of belladonna (in the proportion of four drachms of the extract to one ounce of cerate) with the view of expediting dilatation of the os uteri in tardy labour. It has been resorted to on the same ground to allay spasm of the urethra by Dr. Holbrook, who recommends the infusion of the leaves as a lavement, as an injection into the urethra, and as a fomentation to the perineum ; and by Will, Guerin of Bordeaux, and others, who introduced a bougie smeared with the extract into the urethra. Dr. Blackett employed it also with effect in spasmodic constrictions of the rectum ; and reports favourable to its influence in promoting reduction of incarcerated hernia have been published by MM. Guerin and Carree 1 2. The supposed specific effects of belladonna in rabies have been shown by Mr. Youatt to be unfounded, although he admits its beneficial influence (on the dog) in many instances3. Its utility also in tetanus is extremely pro- 1 See Lancet, January 183G, April 183fi and 1838. 2 Journ. des Conn. Med. Cliir. Mai 1835. ;i See his paper from the Veterinarian, published in the Lancet for Sept. 29, 1838. blematical. The value of belladonna as a prophylactic in scarlatina and as an antispas- modic, in hooping-cough does not come within the scope of an article on its surgical uses. ( Henry T. Chapman. ) BINOCULUS, a bandage, formerly used to cover both eyes.—(See Bandage.) BISTOURY (s. m. scalpellus), the name of an instrument in use amongst surgeons, in operations requiring a division of the soft tex- tures of the body. The term bistouri, or bis- toury, has been applied, according to Huet, from the circumstance of the town of Pistori having at one time been celebrated for the manufacture of this kind of instrument. The bistoury has been used for almost every kind of cutting operation, and has been con- structed in a variety of shapes and sizes to suit the fancy of the operator, or the peculiar nature of the operation. Almost every one in the habit of using such instruments, has had them constructed accord- ing to some ideas of his own ; and it would be an endless task to describe more than those which have been most generally approved of amongst practical surgeons. A bistoury consists of two parts, a blade and handle ; and the simplest form of the instru- ment is that in which the blade is firmly fixed and riveted in the handle. The blade is formed of finely-tempered steel, and the handle of some hard wood, such as ebony or ivory. The length of the instrument varies from six to eight inches ; its breadth and thickness also vary ; in some the handle is not larger than that of a common scalpel, the blade being about three inches long ; in others, the handle is much stronger, and of greater length, whilst the blade may be of the ordinary size, or it may be larger or smaller. The breadth of the blade may vary from one-eighth of an inch to five-eighths ; it may be straight or curved; and in the latter the cutting edge may be on the concave or convex margin. The point may be quite sharp, so as to penetrate the soft parts, on the application of a slight force, or it may be rounded-off like that of a probe ; the former is termed the sharp-pointed bistoury, the latter the ptrobe-pointed. The cutting margin may extend throughout the whole of the blade, or may be confined to a small portion. The common bistoury, such as is used for making incisions, as in erysipelas, or in the re- moval of tumours, fingers, or toes, is about seven inches in length ; the handle being about four, the blade about three. The latter is firmly fixed in the former, in a groove cut for its reception, and rivetted by two pins of brass, silver, or platina ; brass wire is most frequently used, though either of the other metals ought to be preferred. Ebony-wood makes the best handle, as the blood is not so conspicuous upon it, nor is it so apt to slip in the fingers as ivory. Its breadth, where the blade is fixed, is about three-eighths of an inch, and its thick- 7