CYSTITIS. 856 The glass is then detached by inclining it a little, and pressing the skin on one side till the air is admitted. This is termed dry cup- ping, the ventouse scche of the French, and trockene Schrbfpkopfe of the Germans. When the skin is scarified in order at the same time to draw blood, it is called, by the former, ven- touse scarifice, by the latter blutige Schropfkopje. The scarification is effected by means of an instrument resembling a box in shape, into which a number of lancets are so fixed as to be subject to a spring. The flat surface of the box, which is perforated to admit of the move- ment of the scarificators, being applied on the skin, the incisions are made at a stroke, by letting go the spring. The depth of the incisions can be regu- lated to a certain extent. The quantity of blood obtained in this way would, however, be very small, if means were not employed before-hand, of producing a congested state of the capillary vessels of the part about to be scarified. This is done by dry cupping the parts for about a minute before the scarifica- tors are applied. The same glasses may be employed for the evacuation as for the dry cupping. The degree of vacuum required in the glass is produced by holding it for a moment over the flame of a spirit-lamp ; it is then ap- plied instanter to the skin. The success of the operation, especially in regard to the quantity of blood to be abstracted, depends much on the celerity of this step. The blood spirts out immediately from the punctures, and continues to flow. The freedom of its evacuation may be prevented by the exces- sive pressure of the rim of the glass checking the arrival of the blood from the surrounding parts, or by the heat of the blood itself still further rarefying the air within the glass, and its vapour filling up the space, the elastic ten- sion within being thus rendered equal to the external pressure, the blood ceases to flow and the glass soon drops off. When this oc- curs, the blood must be wiped off from the punctures, and the glass rinsed with warm water, and applied as before. Some operators prefer the Bdellometer, or a cupping-glass, which is provided with an exhausting pump, as more convenient, prompt, and certain in its effect. When this instru- ment is used, the edge of the glass is greased to facilitate its adhesion to the skin, and ap- plied first; the pump is then screwed on to it, the stop-cock is then opened, and the air of the glass being exhausted by a few strokes of the piston, the skin swells up under the diminished pressure. In either way, by the number of glasses employed or their re-ap- plication,- the desired quantity of blood may in general be obtained by an expert operator, provided the temperature of the apartment be not so low as to check the cutaneous cir- culation. Indeed the certainty on this point, is a good reason, in many cases, for preferring cupping to leeches, which are often not to be had, and the bites of which sometimes are at- 6 tended by undesirable consequences. Dr. Osborne has proposed an extended plan of scarification in cupping, by means of an in- strument which he calls a polytome; instead of simple lancet-punctures, this instrument makes incisions of such length as the opera- tor pleases, by being drawn along the skin. On the removal of the cupping glasses, often before, the bleeding ceases ; the small punctures may be dressed with a piece of soft linen rag, or of gold-beater’s skin. CURETTE or David’s spoon, an instru- ment used in the operation for Cataract. See Cataract. CURETTE, the name given by the French to a small instrument, shaped at one end like a scoop. It is employed in the extraction of foreign bodies, from the urethra, meatus au- ditorius, nostrils, eyelids, &c. On a larger scale it is used in the extraction of bullets, and vesical calculi. CURVATURE OF THE SPINE. See Vertebral Column. CYST. (From kvotiq, a sac or bladder.) An abnormal membrane forming a shut sac, commonly an adventitious formation, but in rarer instances resulting from certain changes in pre-existing tissues, and containing mate- rials either fluid or solid secreted by itself (as serosity, meliceris, atheroma, &c.),exuded from surrounding structures (as blood), or in- troduced from without (as bullets, pieces of cloth, &c.). In a surgical point of view, cysts derive their importance more from the nature of their contents than from their own particu- lar structure ; the practical consideration of the subject, as well as such general remarks on the anatomy and physiology of these mem- branes, as are necessary for the just compre- hension of the phenomena to which they give rise, are therefore, in accordance with ge- neral custom, deferred to the article Tumors, Encysted. See also Cancer (p. 60U), Mam- ma, and Ovary, diseases of. CYSTITIS, (from kvotiq, bladder,) Harn- blascnentzundung, Ger. Inflammation of the urinary bladder. In the article Bladder, the anatomical structure of this viscus is described. Composed as it is of several tunics, held to- gether by cellular tissue, and lined with a mucous membrane, every pathologist must be aware that these several tunics are liable to be attacked by inflammation, separately or all together, partially or universally ; and that the symptoms must vary according to the ex- tent and intensity of the invasion, and the nature of the exciting cause. It will be there- fore obvious, that the symptoms themselves will present considerable variety, and for this reason it is liable to be confounded with in- flammation of the prostate, and even with re- tention of urine, which sometimes accompanies it as a symptom. Cystitis is by no means frequent as a primary disease, and when it occurs as such, it is most