ANGEIOLEUCITIS. 285 come more extensive ; an erythematous blush appears round those wounds or ulcers that had been dressed with deteriorated adhesive laster or rancid applications, or which had een covered with incrustations ; streaks, bands, or patches, varying in colour from a bright or rosy red to a wine or violet hue, soon appear at other points of the diseased region. These bands are tortuous, irregular, and cross each other in such a manner as to form small islets of sound skin, and follow the tracks of the lymphatic vessels. They do not show themselves first on the parts nearest to the wound ; those first seen are even some- times at some distance above it. Erysipe- latous patches, similar in colour, soon show themselves over a certain extent of the af- fected region. At first, they appear dissemi- nated over different points, but they gradually group together, and are confounded into a spe- cies of erysipelas. The parts surrounding the centre of the disease are, in general, the first affected; from these it spreads in the same man- ner as common inflammation ; but most com- monly it shows itself at other points, more or less, so as to appear as if the patient had been attacked by erysipelas at several places simul- taneously, each of these points being united with the rest by red lines or streaks. An acrid burning pain is felt in the situations of these red patches, and it even sometimes pre- cedes the appearance of these red streaks or bands ; it is exasperated by the slightest touch, and has the same character as the pain accompanying erysipelas—it is not throbbing, stinging, or lancinating, but resembles more closely that which is felt in a part that has been sun-burnt; the swelling is slight at first, and scarcely perceptible between the inflam- matory streaks, or even along their course. These bands themselves sometimes retain all their natural suppleness, and by no means communicate that feeling of induration which, from their appearance, one might be led to expect. The patches also may exist for some time without presenting this complication ; the contrary, however, is most frequently ob- served, and the tumefaction of the subcuta- neous layer follows quickly upon the deve- lopment, of those inflammatory trains or patches. The diffusion of the swelling is but seldom complete ; it extends very irregularly both in depth and surface, and is developed more perhaps by nuclei than by patches ; the rarefaction that it produces seems moreover to be manifested more in the skin, cellular tis- sue, and the neighbouring layers, en masse, than to confine itself to any one of them in particular. It appears to attach itself much more closely to the canals, plexuses, and lymphatic ganglions, than to the anatomical arrangement of the cellular tissue, strictly so called. At first, the tissues retain a certain degree of suppleness, notwithstanding the swelling and redness. At a later period, the tension increases, and their feel is like that of sponge ; to the finger they seem as if they were oedematous, and are in reality the seat of infiltration ; the tension, however, has not a frank, elastic, equal, and regular character, nor is it the same as we find in the doughyness of the acute phlegmon, or phlegmonous ery- sipelas. What has been stated as regards the redness, swelling, and tension, will apply also to the heat, which is great only at the com- mencement, and which does not increase in proportion to the other symptoms. To ren- der the description of superficial angeioleu- citis complete, we have only to mention the swelling of the ganglions, into which the in- flamed vessels pass as one of its most constant symptoms. It is difficult for the fluids circu- lating in a canal thus affected, not to deposit some germ of irritation in the ganglions through which they pass. It is, however, possible to conceive such a case, and I have myself seen several instances of it, either in consequence of obstruction below the seat of the disease, or from its being rapidly circum- scribed, and the vessels becoming obliterated, so as quickly to transform it into an erysipe- las or phlegmon. When the attack occurs first in the deep- seated lymphatic vessels, as sometimes hap- pens in the case of wounds or ulcers that pass under the fasciae, as also of contusion, inflam- mation, abscess, or ulcer, the symptoms as- sume a somewhat different character. It is the pain that first attracts notice. It is fixed in a particular spot, where it may remain for a considerable time ; it is deep-seated, sharp, or lancinating. If the mischief extends, the pain is soon felt in other regions, simulta- neously or successively ; and though it can- not be said to be positively absent in the intervals separating the points in which it is most acutely felt, still it does not excite suffi- cient uneasiness to be much complained of. The pain is not radiated in lines from a given point, nor is it diffused, neither does it remit; it is a fixed pain, though disseminated over particular spots, varying in the degrees of its intensity at different points. The tumefac- tion comes on afterwards, or it may occur almost at the same time, and in the same places as the pain. It proceeds, and is deve- loped from the centre to the circumference. It is observed under the form of masses of more or less extent, of thick and long cores ; but there is no appearance of patches, as in the case described already. Its origin is without difficulty recognized to be from be- neath the fascia, and the tissues are less dense in proportion as they are nearer to the skin which retains for a long time suppleness and a certain degree of mobility. Should the swelling become general, the first charac- ters will nevertheless persist to some extent to the end ; in the midst of the general tume- faction we can discover, here and there, points more swollen and perceptibly more dense than others. The redness only becomes mani- fest subsequently to the two preceding phe- nomena. It is less superficial than in the former variety, and can be only seen as it were by transparency in the shape of irregu-