415 GASTRO-HYSTEROTOMI A. cations of France and Germany; and I find grounds for stating that, on some occasions, the operation has been resorted to where there seemed to be scarcely a hope of any good result, or determined on when not abso- lutely called for, or neglected still more often where obviously applicable, not only because calculated to avoid protracted suffering, but to afford a chance of saving life.” The fatality attending the operation in this country was supposed by Mr. Simmons of Manchester, (a decided opponent of the ope- ration,) to be owing to the influence of cli- mate, or to some peculiarity of constitution in the women of the British isles. Dr. Hull, however, accounts for the mortality in a much more rational and intelligible manner *. “ There is a material difference,” says he, “ between a patient’s dying from an operation, and after an operation ; although, blinded by prejudice, we may entirely overlook this very necessary distinction with regard to the ope- ration in question. In France, and some other nations upon the European continent, the Caesarean operation has been, and con- tinues to be performed, where British practi- tioners do not think it indicated; that it is also had recourse to early, before the strength of the mother has been exhausted by the long continuance and frequent repetition of tormenting, though unavailing pains, and be- fore her life is endangered by the accession of inflammation of the abdominal cavity. From this view of the matter we may reason- ably expect, that recoveries will be more fre- quent in France than in England and Scot- land, where the reverse practice obtains. And it is from such cases as these, in which it is employed in France, that the value of the operation ought to be appreciated. Who would be sanguine in his expectation of a recovery, under such circumstances as it has generally been resorted to in this country; namely, where the female has laboured for years under malacosteon, ( mollities ossium,) a disease hitherto in itself incurable ; where she has been brought into imminent danger by previous inflammation of the intestines, or other contents of the abdominal cavity ; or been exhausted by a labour of a week’s continuance, or even longer ? And if the event should be fatal, what unprejudiced per- son would attribute it entirely to the opera- tion ?” At the same time, Dr. Hull does not deny, that the operation has contributed very materially to the fatality of the event in some cases both here and upon the continent; and he freety admits that the death of the patient in some cases may be wholly chargeable upon the operation: but he also very justly ob- serves that such will sometimes be the case with regard to lithotomy, and other capital operations of surgery, although performed with the greatest ability, and conducted with all possible address. It would be useless, in the present day, to 1 Vide Dr. Hull’s Defence of the Caesarean opera- tion. London, 1799. offer a single additional remark, with a view to prove that cases do sometimes occur, in which delivery per vias naturales is utterly impracticable; and in which the Caesarean operation offers the only possible means of relief. The necessity for this operation, says Baudelocque, is no longer a problem ; it can- not, now, appear doubtful to any persons, ex- cept to those who are interested in opposing jt, whatever may be the motive by which they are actuated. Its necessity is as fully estab- lished as that of lithotomy, to which no one will dare to object; because it is, in some instances, as impossible to extract a child through the natural passage, as to bring from the bladder a large stone through the ure- thra. The Caesarean operation has this pecu- liarity, that it is always urgent; whilst litho- tomy is scarcely ever so ; that the least delay in the former may render it useless to the child and more dangerous to the mother, whilst the latter may, perhaps, be deferred without any material inconvenience. Having proved that the Caesarean operation is not only admissible, but, occasionally, even indispensable, as presenting the only probable means whereby the lives both of the mother and the child may be preserved ; it is neces- sary, in the next place, to point out the various circumstances that may demand its performance; and which may be conve- niently arranged under the following heads : 1. Deformity of the pelvis, from rachitis, malacosteon adultorum, exostosis, or external injury. 2. Rupture of the uterus, either during labour, or by external injury. 3. Death during pregnancy. 4. Extra-uterine fetation. 5. Obstruction from tumors. 6. Hysterocele. 1. Deformity of the Pelvis.—This may originate either, during the period of child- hood, from rachitis ; or, after the age of pu- berty, from malacosteon ( mollities ossium ). In by far the greater number of Caesarean cases, the deformity has arisen from one or other of these causes. It may, however, be the result of external injury, as in Mr. Barlow’s case. This woman’s pelvis had been fractured by a waggon passing over it: she recovered from the injury, and became pregnant; but the de- formity caused by the accident was so great as to render delivery impracticable, except by the Caesarean operation. Lastly, exostosis may seriously diminish the capacity of the pelvis, any part of which may become the seat of such bony deposition. The necessity for the Caesarean operation will of course depend upon the degree of de- formity ; a point upon which the best writers have differed in opinion. Where the deform- ity is slight, and the child’s head is soft and flexible, the powers of nature will, in many cases, be sufficient to effect delivery without any instrumental interference. If, however, the head, in its passage through the pelvis.