778 CINCHONA. mation having occurred. Its chief difference consists in a certain quantity of the medium of lymph or granulation remaining, and being incorporated with the cicatrix.” Although cicatrization, as a general rule, proceeds from the circumference to the centre of a sore, yet there are particular instances in which it may also commence at several iso- lated points at the same time, and that chiefly in the instance of specific ulcers. “ In such cases,” says the last-named author1, “ the heal- ing process is very rapid, and the granulations acquire their proper integuments, before there is time for their being diminished bv absorp- tion, or by their having assumed a plain sur- face.” Under these circumstances, as might be expected, the cicatrix possesses a very irre- gular and puckered appearance, which is after- wards somewhat improved by the processes of contraction and absorption. In the instance in which cicatrization occurs under a clot or scab, it is believed that it does not proceed from the edges, but takes place at the same time over the whole surface, as the covering is usually detached at once. In this mode of cure the cicatrix is supple, and most nearly resembles the common integument. It is quite incompatible with the process of inflammation, and is therefore only suitable to recent wounds which are kept perfectly at rest. It may be sometimes factitiously pro- moted in practice, by covering the broken surface with gold-beaters’ skin. There are certain conditions which favour, and others which retard or prevent cicatriza- tion. To the former belong pure air, sound bodily health, and suitable regimen. Among the latter may be enumerated irritation, or inflammation of the adjunct structures, or a low pitch of their vitality; certain local cir- cumstances, such as a varicose dilatation of the veins, position of the wound or sore over bone, presence of extraneous substances, caries; general morbid states of the system, from scro- fula, herpes, syphilis. Carcinoma, without doubt, one of the greatest obstacles to cicatri- zation, does not always prevent it; since I have occasionally witnessed the fact of can- cerous ulcers partly healing. When the surface of the sore becomes dry, and its margins are hard and insensible, or preternaturally hot, moist warmth must bo resorted to, as that which is effected by emollient poultices. If there be much heat and tension, a few leeches may be advan- tageously applied in the neighbourhood. When the granulations are too luxuriant, as- tringents are indicated, such as nitrate of silver, sulphate of copper, and burnt alum ; the last will be found very efficient in counteracting the disposition to form bands, and the like. Should, on the other hand, the surface present an indolent character, topical blistering will be found very beneficial in imparting a vigor- ous and healthy action to the sluggish capilla- ries. It is well ascertained, that the exhibition of a purgative occasionally, promotes very materially the healing process. Bibliography.— Von derKolk, Comment, de regen. partium niobium in Vulnere,Gottingen, 17(17; Bichat, Anatomic Generalc, tom. i. p. 88; Cruvei/hier, Essai stir l'Anatomie Patliologiqne, Paris, 1816, tom. ii. p. 164; De/pcch, Cliir. Clinique, tom. ii; Pauli, Com- mentatio physiologico-cliivurgica de Vulncribus sanan- dis, Goeting®, 1825; Guctcruoek, I)e Pure ct Granu- lationc, Berolini, 1837. (Alexander Ure.) CILIA, the Eyelashes, inversion of. See Trichiasis. CINCHONA, Quinquina, Fr. ; Fieber- nude, Ger. The pharmacopceial name of several kinds of Peruvian barks. The use of this medicine was but little known until the year 1635, when a signal cure having been performed by it on the Spanish viceroy’s lady, the Countess del Cin- chon, at Lima, it came into general use, and hence it was distinguished by the appellations of cortex cinchonae, and pulvis comitissae, or the Countess’s powder. The trees which afford the different varieties of cinchona grow wild in the hilly and mountainous districts of Peru, and on the Western Andes ; the bark is stripped from the branches, trunk, and root, in September, and dried. Three kinds of bark are now in use ;— 1st, Heart leaved cinchona, (Cortex cin- chona; cor difolia:.')—The bark of this tree is called t he yellow baric, as it approaches nearer to that colour than either of the others. It is in flat pieces, not convoluted like pale, nor dark coloured like the red bark ; it is smooth externally, internally of a light cinnamon colour, friable, and fibrous; has no peculiar odour different from the others, but has a much more bitter taste, with some degree of astringency. It is from this variety of cin- chona that the alkali quina, has been obtained ; which, in combination with sulphuric acid, forms the sulphate of quinine, now so exten- sively used. 2d, Lance-leaved cinchona, (Cortex cinchona lancifolice.)—This is the quilled bark, which comes in small quilled twigs, breaking close and smooth, friable between the teeth, covered with a rough coat of a brownish colour, inter- nally smooth, and of a light brown ; its taste is bitter, and slightly astringent; flavour slightly aromatic with some degree of musti- ness. 3d, Oblong-leaved cinchona, (Cortex cin- chona; oblongifolia.)—This is the red bark of the pharmacopoeia ; it is in large thick pieces, externally covered with a brown rugged coat, internally more smooth and compact, but fibrous; colour, dark red ; taste and smell, similar to that of the lancc-lcavcd cinchona, but the taste rather stronger. The first variety is that which is most frequently used. Few drugs have been more abused than this. When administered with judgment and discrimination, cinchona is a powerful agent 3 Ibidem, p. 63