CANCER. 666 Fig. 169. We have already described the ordinary mode of death in cases of internal meningeal cancer; the description will, in the majority of cases, apply to the protruding species, which rarely destroys the patient with the ordinary phenomena of external cancinoma- tous disease. A table is given further on which shows, that in twenty-one at least of the cases on record, the cerebral symptoms preceding death were brought on by various operations, or attempts at operations, on the tumours. According to Velpeau, when these patients perish rapidly, the dura mater or sur- face of the brain is found inflamed, covered with pus, ulcerated, softened, or reduced to a putrid detritus ; in other cases there is puru- lent infiltration of the arachnoid, extending to the occipital foramen, with apoplectic effusion into the brain. Among sixty cases Velpeau only detected three in which there was co- existing cancer in other organs. The duration of the disease differs ex- tremely in different instances. Graff’s patient had suffered thirty-seven years at the time of her death ; Louis speaks of a case which lasted forty years; others have been known to exist for thirty, fifteen, and ten: but its ordinary course is much more rapid. The slow course of the disease in the cases referred to, may, on first view, appear an argument against its can- cerous nature, but Graff’s narrative is pre- cisely one of those which, by their precision and minuteness, place the encephaloid cha- racter of the malady beyond the reach of controversy. The seat of these cancers, in respect of the region of the skull affected, was as follows, in 51 cases analyzed by Velpeau : 13 in the parietal region, 8 — temporal — 7 — frontal — 7 — orbito-nasal— 7 in the occipital region 5 — vertical — 3 on the petrous bone, 1 in the substance of the falx cerebri. Tumours of the internal surface of the dura mater, in particular, have been most frequently met with by Cruveilhier at the angle of union of the falx cerebri with the rest of the mem- brane, when seated at the convexity of the skull; in the olfactory groves, the sella tur- cica and the surfaces of the petrous process, when occupying the base. The number of tumours existing in one skull varies. It appears from M. Velpeau’s inquiries that they are commonly single, as had been already affirmed by Meckel; twelve examples only of multiple development pre- sented themselves in sixty cases. They are sometimes very numerous; Sandifort found eighteen, Ritterich fourteen in one subject, and cases almost similar have been observed by others. Cruveilhier1 speaks of having dis- covered one hundred in the diploe of a sub- ject with mammary cancer. Of the causes of the disease nothing is known : numerous writers gratify their fond- ness for universal explanation by ascribing it to blows ; but they fail to adduce a particle of evidence proving that the disease had not existed before the receipt of the injury; this appears, however, in some cases, to have hastened the occurrence of protrusion. Aber- nethy, true to his general doctrine, conjectures that an effusion of blood from a blow might become organized, and form a fungus ; but he had not himself observed any facts in support of such a view2. Were this notion established, the influence of external injury would be clearly defined. (See Hematoma.) Some attribute the affection to the venereal cac- hexia ; others (such as V. Walther, who looks on it as identical with the white swell- ings of joints,) to the scrofulous : both opi- nions, merely hypothetical at the best, are disproved by observation.—The affection has been met with in the two sexes with about equal frequency; twenty-three of the subjects of forty-four cases, collected from different sources by Velpeau, were males, twenty-one females. It is observed at every age, as the following table of forty cases, by the same writer, fully shows : From aet. 0 to 10 Ceases, — 20 — 30 7 — _ 30 — 40 10 — — 40 — 50 9 — — 50 — 60 5 — _ 60 — 80 3 — Treatment.—Upon the inutility of resol- vents, and local applications of all kinds, it is unnecessary to dwell. Compression originally, as we believe, em- ployed from the disease being mistaken for encephalocele, and apparently warranted by 1 Livrais. xx. Os. p. 4. 1 Surg. Observ. on Injur, of the Head, p. 58. Ed. 1826.