EMPROSTHOTONOS. 1836. flicks, Lond. Med. Gaz. April, 1837. LiU burn, Lond. Med. Gaz. vol. xx. p. 913. 1837. Cop- land, art. Emphysema, Diet, of Med. 1837. Menard, Gaz. Medicale, vol. vi. p. 697. 1838. Ollivicr, Ar- chives Gen. de Med. p. 43. Janv. 1838. Mainyault, Gaz. Medicale, vol. vii. p. 14. 1839. Barrett, Lan- cet, April, 1839. Porter, Dublin Med. Press, Nos. xvi—xix. 1839. Boddaut, Gaz. Medicale, vol. viii. . 698. 1840. J. Mouat, Edinb. Med. and Surg. onrn. vol. liii. p. 427. 1840. A. Deveryie, Annales d’Hygiene Publique, tom. xxv. p. 442. Avia], 1841. ( Walter Hayle Walshe.') EMPLASTRA. Solid and tenacious com- binations of animal fat or fixed oil, with vari- ous other substances, prepared of such a con- sistence that when cold they do not adhere to any thing with which they are placed in contact, yet at the temperature of about 100° to 120° they become soft and adhesive. They are generally kept in solid rolls until wanted for use, and are then, by the application of gentle heat, spread upon leather, cotton, or linen. Their surgical uses are to afford me- chanical support, to keep divided parts in apposition, to prevent the access of air, and to act as stimulating, irritant, or sedative ap- plications. See Compression, Blister. The following are the plasters of the Lon- don Pharmacopoeia: Emplastrum Ammoniaci. Ammoniacum five ounces, distilled vinegar eight fluid ounces. Dissolve the ammoniacum in the vinegar ; then strain, and by a gentle heat evaporate to a proper consistence, constantly stirring. Emplastrum Ammoniaci cum Hydrargyro.— Ammoniacum a pound, mercury three ounces, olive oil a drachm, sulphur eight grains. Gra- dually add the sulphur to the heated oil, con- stantly stirring until they unite ; then with these rub the mercury, until the globules be- come invisible. Add the melted ammoniacum gradually, and mix all together. Emplastrum Belladonna.— Resin plaster three ounces, extract of belladonna an ounce and a half. Melt the plaster in a water bath, add the extract, and mix. Emplastrum Cantharidis.—Finely powdered cantharides a pound, wax plaster a pound and a half, lard half a pound. Melt the plaster and lard together, remove from the fire, and a little before they concrete, sprinkle in the cantharides, and mix. Emplastrum Cera. — Wax, suet, of each three pounds, resin one pound. Melt toge- ther, and strain. Emplastrum Galbani. — Galbanum eight ounces, lead plaster three pounds, common turpentine ten drachms, frankincense bruised three ounces. To the galbanum and turpen- tine melted together, add first the frankin- cense, then the lead plaster, melted at a slow fire, and mix. Emplastrum Hydrargyri.—Mercury three ounces, lead plaster a pound, olive oil a drachm, sulphur eight grains. To the heated oil add the sulphur gradually, constantly stir- ring until they unite, then rub the mercury with them until the globules become invi- sible, then gradually add the lead plaster, melted at a slow fire, and mix. Emplastrum Opii.—Hard opium powdered half an ounce, frankincense bruised three ounces, lead plaster a pound, water eight fluid ounces. Add the frankincense, opium, and water, to the melted plaster, and boil at a slow fire until all unite into a proper consist- ence. Emplastrum Picis. — Frankincense one pound, Burgundy pitch two pounds, resin, wax, of each four ounces, expressed oil of nutmeg an ounce, olive oil, water, of each two fluid ounces. To the pitch, resin, and wax, melted together, add first the frankin- cense, then the oil of nutmeg, the olive oil, and water. Lastly, mix all, and boil down to a proper consistence. Emplastrum Plurnbi. — Finely powdered oxide of lead six pounds, olive oil a gallon, water two pints. Boil together at a slow fire, constantly stirring until the oil and the oxide of lead unite into the consistence of a plaster. Emplastrum Resina.—Resin half a pound, lead plaster three pounds. To the lead plas- ter, melted at a slow fire, add the bruised resin, and mix. Emplastrum Saponis.—Sliced soap half a pound, lead plaster three pounds. Mix the soap with the melted plaster, and boil down to a proper consistence. These are all the plasters at present ad- mitted into our pharmacopoeia ; but there are many others in common use: as the assafee- tida plaster, made with assafeetida and lead plaster, of each two parts; galbanum and yellow wax of each one part; a great variety of corn plasters; and combinations of different substances with the plasters just enumerated ; as the extract of conium with the adhesive plaster; liquid pitch with the adhesive plaster; hydrochlorate of ammonia with the soap plas- ter ; and an almost endless variety of fanciful compositions. The common adhesive plaster, spread on calico by machinery, contains less resin than the pharmacopoeia preparation, but even then is frequently too stimulating. In some of the London hospitals, the old em- plastrum thuris, and the emplastrum resinae are mixed in equal proportions, and make ex- cellent strapping. The isinglass plaster is also much used. The court plaster is made as follows :— Black silk is put upon the stretch, and brush- ed over several times with a solution of half an ounce of gum benzoin in six ounces of rec- tified spirit, to which solution an ounce of isinglass separately dissolved in half a pint of water had been added and strained together. When the plaster has become quite dry, it is again brushed over with a solution of four ounces of Chio turpentine in six ounces of tincture of Benzoes, in order to prevent it from cracking. EMPROSTHOTONOS. See Ectopia. Tetanus.