FRACTURE. 333 To each of the two first of this list—the spine and the cranium—it will be necessary to devote a distinct series of considerations, on account of the peculiarities and serious diffi- culties which attend injuries of the brain and spinal marrow. (See the articles,— Head mid Spine.) It should not be here regarded as out of place, or out of our province, to recom- mend to the student a different course from that which a systematic work seems to impose. The most frequent fractures are the first in importance to the practitioner; and to attend first to the most essential things is a golden rule of life in every matter. Many important practical considerations, however, which could not often be well repeated, though applicable to many cases, must be looked for in the ac- count of the less frequent fractures. The consideration of cases of fracture connected with dislocation is necessarily deferred until we shall have examined the simple luxations. (See Luxations.) FRACTURES OF THE BONES OF THE FACE. Fractures of the bones of the face seem to be guarded against in a peculiar manner, by the ever watchful senses and a natural instinct. In respect of solidity, these bones may rank between those chiefly composed of cancel- lated tissue, and those of the harder sub- stance of cylindrical bones ; and toughness, perhaps, should be considered as their pro- per characteristic. They are by no means commonly broken. According to the tables at page 243, the following is the order in point of frequency, in which fractures of them occur; and this is also the order in which the injuries are practically important; viz. fractures of the lower jaw, of the nasal bones, and of the remaining facial bones1. For the sake of system, however, we shall consider them in a somewhat different order. FRACTURES OF THE BONES OF THE NOSE. The nasal bones,from their small size, com- parative solidity, arched arrangement, and firm attachments, are capable of affording con- siderable resistance to external violence, and even great protection to the organs of vision ; yet they are not unfrequently fractured by the several causes of injury to which they are particularly exposed from their superficial and prominent position. The most frequent of these causes are, falling upon the face, blows of the fist, of staves, and kicks from horses. It will avail but little to make nice distinc- tions between the ordinary cases of these fractures. Perhaps the most common occur- rence is the separation of a small fragment from the anterior (inferior) thin and expand- ed margin of one or both bones; but a scarcely less frequent injury is a transverse division at the middle of the two bones (Figs. 314, 315). Some fracture of the ascending or 1 Mr. Lonsdale found, that of near 2000 cases of fracture treated in six years at the Middlesex Hospi- tal, 46 involved the bones of the face; namely, 13 the ossa nasi, 1 the upper jaw, and 32 the lower jaw. Fig. 314. Fracture of the ossa nasi repaired. The left hone has been broken near its loiver end, yet not so near that part as is frequently the case. The right, which is longer, and encroaches on the left, has been divided near its middle, and the displacement laterally of its inferior portion is considerable. Fig. 315. Fracture across the middle of the ossa nasi, reunited with some displacement. nasal plate of the superior maxillary bones, of the nasal spine of the frontal bone, or even of the ethmoid bone, may occasionally occur, as additions to the injury in question. Some- times loosening of the nasal bones is effected, with or without fracture. Still more extensive injuries may involve the base of the brain, or the organs of vision; but these accidents will be found spoken of in their appropriate places. It is, on the whole, rare that fractures of the nasal bones are laid open superficially ; but they are very commonly exposed to the air in the nasal cavity, and consequently pursue the usual course of open fractures, giving rise to suppuration, and every now and then to exfoliation. In all these fractures considerable superficial contusion is produced, and haemorrhage from the ruptured vessels of the lining membrane of the nose is to be expected.