75 EMPHYSEMA. the pelvic viscera, and in some cases of chlorosis and amenorrhsea do bring' on the catamenia, yet their effects are very uncer- tain, often injurious, and always distressing. It is very rarely, therefore, that they should be employed, it being a far more philosophi- cal practice to seek to remove the causes on which the deficient menstruation depends. See Amenorrhsea. EMPHYSEMA (ip<j>varnta, from tv, into, and ipvaaoj, to blow). A collection of air or other gaseous fluid in the cellular membrane, subcutaneous or visceral. Such at least is the surgical acceptation of the term ; the applica- tion by Latinnec of the phrase “ vesicular emphysema!' to a disease of the lungs anatomi- cally characterised by dilatation of the air- cells with hypertrophy or atrophy of their walls, although now sanctioned by general usage, is evidently not warranted by the ety- mology or previous mode of employment of the word. From the present article the con- sideration of accumulations of gas in the hol- low viscera or serous cavities is purposely excluded : they are treated of under the heads Physometra, Pneumatosis, Pneumoperi- cardium, Pneumothorax and Tympanitis. Emphysema, as above defined, may be either symptomatic of certain organic or me- chanical lesions ; or it may be artificially pro- duced ; or developed under peculiar condi- tions, which though at present very imper- fectly understood, would appear, in some in- stances at least, to be independent of putre- faction, as also of any lesion involving a com- munication between the passages containing air or other gas and the common cellular membrane. Hence arise three species of emphysema, the symptomatic, the artificial, and the idiopathic or spontaneous. The various modes in which the first of these may be pro- duced are exhibited in the subjoined table. / f 1. Lachrymal passages. 2. Walls of the nares or frontal sinuses. 3. Mastoid cells. 4. Eustachian tube. 3. Larynx or trachea. 6. Bronchi. A communica- tion between the cellular mem - brane and the passages in which ( air or other gas circulates, by h ( means of a solu- s \tion of continu- £ ity in the Organic sions 7. Pulmo- nary vesi- cles, pro-/ duced by \ le- V / a. Interlobular Em- physema. /3. Destruction of advancing from with- ( tissue from tuberculi- in outwards. 1 zation or gangrene, with perforation of l^both pleural laminae. y. Extrathoracic ab- scess perforating the (_ lung. 2. -■f b. Mechanical injuries. v advancing from with ,out inwards. { S. Fracture of ribs, sternum or clavicle, with wound of both pleural laminae and of the lung, without perforating wound of the in- teguments. e. The same lesion with perforating wound of the integuments £. Contusion of the chest producing lacer- ation of the lung and both pleural laminae, without fracture of the ribs or external W'ound. jj. Penetrating wounds of the chest and '.Jung. B. A communication between the external air and the cavity of the pleura by a pene- trating chest wound, without injury of the lung or pulmonary pleura. C. A non-penetrating wound of the chest ? D. A communication between the interior of the alimentary canal and the common cellular membrane. ‘ E. Mortification. II. Artificial. III. Idiopathic. $ I. Symptomatic Emphysema. A. I. Examples of the production of local emphysema, by the mere action of blowing the nose forcibly, are on record (Bree, Carre). The violent propulsion of air through the lachrymal ducts caused their rupture in the instances referred to, and the laxity of struc-