FISTULA, INTESTINAL. 217 of the neck of the uterus. The only re- source, in this case, seemed to be the forma- tion of an artificial anus, which was accord- ingly made on the 2nd of June, by M. Amus- sat, in the following manner : the patient being placed on her face, with the abdomen supported by pillows, a transverse incision was made in the left lumbar region, where the accumulation of fecal matters caused a considerable projection. The incision was commenced at the external edge of the sacro- lumbalis and longissimus dorsi muscles, and was extended outwards for four inches and a half, at the distance of two fingers’ breadth above the crest of the ilium. T.he skin and muscles being divided, the adipose tissue sur- rounding the kidney, on which the posterior part of the lumbar colon rests, was brought into view. On cutting through this fat, the colon immediately appeared between the edges of the wound, in a very distended state. The intestine being fixed by a loop of thread passed through its coats, was opened by a trochar, and air and liquid feces escaped through the canula. The opening in the colon was then dilated by the bistoury, in a transverse direction, to the extent of an inch and a half; after which, fecal matter in im- mense quantity was discharged, and its remo- val encouraged by injections of warm water into both ends of the bowel. The edges ot the intestinal wound were, lastly, united by stitches to the margin of the anterior part of the external wound, and a poultice was ap- plied. Very little hemorrhage occurred ; the symptoms were immediately relieved; and the patient passed a good night. Fig. 263. A mussut's operation for lumbar artificial anus, after Bouryery. On the following day, slight symptoms of inflammation occurred, but they were re- lieved by leeches. The external wound ra- pidly healed, and at the period of four months 12 after the operation, the patient was quite well, and had regained her strength ; the artificial anus presented a regular rounded orifice, through which the fecal matters passed in a solid form, once or twice a day. A sim- ple bandage fixed round the body was suffi- cient to retain them, which was taken ofF when an inclination to void the feces was felt. Nothing, except air, passed by the natural anus. Fig. 264. Lumbar artificial anus established by Amussat, after Bouryeiy. In M. Amussat’s second case1, the opera- tion was performed on a man, aged sixty-two, for cancer of the rectum, which entirely ob- structed the canal. The result was equally favourable. His health w'as much improved by the operation, and the rapid progress of the disease of the rectum seemed to be arrested. Madame B.2, aged fifty, having suffered fer some years from habitual constipation, at length became affected with obstruction of the bowels, which resisted the assiduous efforts of her medical attendants. After thirty-four days had elapsed without her having had any evacuation by the anus, M. Amussat was consulted in conjunction with M. Deguise, on the 27th ot June, 1841. The abdomen was much distended, and the coils of the intestines were externally dis- tinguishable, giving, on percussion, a clear tympanitic sound. On attempting to pass a gum-elastic catheter, beyond six or eight inches within the rectum, it became bent upon itself. The uterus was somewhat larger than natural. Clysters were expelled almost immediately on being injected, and without bringing away any fecal matter. No part of the abdomen sounded dull on per- 1 IH<h „ , „ . . , 5 Gazette lies Hopitaux, No. 93; anil Provincial Medical and Surgical Journal, August 28, 1841.