CANCER, ANATOMY OF. 594 cessary care the arteries and veins of the neck of a subject who had died with two non- ulcerated encephaloid tumours in that region. On dividing the masses in different directions the usual characters of arterial injection were discovered ; but the result as regards the veins was of a very different kind. The capsule investing the tumours presented a venous rete interlacing with that formed by the arteries in the same situation ; but the closest search failed to detect a single venous ramuscule or even black point in the sub- stance of the tumour. This failure could only be attributed to the total absence or imper- meability of those vessels, for the venous capillaries of the neighbouring organs were admirably injected. Further examination ex- plained this curious result by showing that the minute veins were completely obliterated with encephaloid matter. Whether the ob- struction is in all cases so complete as in the instance referred to, is a point still open to inquiry ; no experimental confirmation of M. Bcrard’s observation has yet been made pub- lic. This anatomist conceives that when such obliteration exists, it is atoned for by a supplementary venous circulation in the ad- joining tissues. M. Cruveilhier believes that he has occasionally observed the arterial branches of gangrenous encephaloid blocked up with whitish matter. Lymphatic vessels have not, so far as we are aware, been particularly noticed in ence- phaloid. Laennec presumes they do exist in it, from his having observed the adventitious tissue to acquire a yellow tint in an icteric subject; but the presence of lymphatic vessels is clearly not required to explain the circum- stance. ' The only nervous filaments discover- able in this morbid growth arc those of the tissues, amid which it is developed ; these oc- casionally traverse its substance in different conditions, to be elsewhere referred to. Mau- noir, misled by the physical and chemical characters of encephaloid, by the tact of its development in the tissue of the brain and nerves, and its similarity of constitution to the growths from, or protrusions of, the brain in cases of hernia cerebri, conceived that it was actually composed of effused nervous sub- stance. This hypothesis does not require serious refutation. Microscopical characters'. — The inquiries of Valentin, Gluge and Muller on the micro- scopical elements of encephaloid have led to the establishment of the three following varie- ties in respect of its intimate constitution. 1 AVe trust the abridgment here given of Muller's descriptions will be rendered intelligib'e by the an- nexed copies of his engravings (Plates I. and II.:) some preliminary acquaintance with recent microsco- pical researches on the development of the ovum and embryonic tissues of animals will much facilitate their comprehension. The appearances detected by the microscope in each species of carcinoma, are stated under the head Anatomy; the theory of growth based on these appearances will be found in the section Physiology. An explanation of each figure will be found at the end of the article. 1. Encephaloid characterized by predominant formation of medullary matter from roundish for- mative globules deposited beside the tenderfibrous meshes intersecting the mass.—To this class be- long, according to Muller, the specimens de- scribed by Gluge. The globules observed by this inquirer were variable in size; the smallest measured of a millimeter in diameter1. Their form was irregular, but inclining to the circular ; their surface uneven, and presenting points and blackish lines beside their trans- parent edges. Crystals were frequently de- tected in great numbers ; some of them reach- ing f, of a millimeter in size : these were possi- bly, however, cadaveric products. Muller has himself found these globules very like those ol ordinary scirrhus and of the gray fundamental basis of one of its varieties, reticular carci- noma. Some points or very minute granules are often discernible in the cavity of these globules; with strong magnifying powers a nucleus may frequently be detected in them, just as in the other forms of cancer. These appearances are shown in PI. I. Figs. 1 and 2. •2. Encephaloid with an extremely soft brain- like fundamental basis composed of pale elliptic corpuscules without caudate prolongation. 1 his variety would appear to be exceedingly rare, as Muller only met with it once in encepha- loid of the tarsus. The corpuscules had very little connexion with each other, and consti- tuted, together with vessels, almost the whole mass of the disease. They were from one and a half times to twice as large as the human blood globule. No filament was ever observed issuing from them, or nucleus or young cell in their interior; with an instrument of the strongest power one or more minute dark points only were detected. The aspect of these bodies is shown in PI. I. Fig. 3. 3. Encephaloid with caudate or spindle-shaped corpuscules.—The fracture of specimens of this microscopical variety sometimes present an apparently fibrous aspect, when the cau- date bodies follow fixed directions, as in the cases described by Valentin. Miiller has seen them in several specimens, either isolated among the roundish formative globules already described, or in numbers, and forming the predominant element. According to the di- rection in which they are arranged, a radiated or tufted appearance is produced ; if their ar- rangement be very irregular, the fibrous dis- position is lost. These differences arc ex- hibited in PI. I. Figs. 4, 5, 6. The cavity of these corpuscula contai ns either a granular body without a clearly distinguish- able nucleus, or in other cases a nucleus with one or more nuclear corpuscules. The fila- mentous or caudal prolongation is observed either at one or both points of the ellipse, and is single or bifid ; in some instances a third fila- ment springs from its side. These appearances arc seen in PI. I. Fig. 7. Chemical characters.—The chemical reac- tions of encephaloid, like its grosser physical characters, resemble those of the cerebral sub- 1 The millimeter is =0 039370 of an English inch.