435 ASPHYXIA. which present themselves in private practice, the employment of electricity cannot be re- sorted to for want of a proper apparatus, yet in the several stations for the reception of per- sons asphyxiated, such an apparatus should be always in readiness. Bleeding.—The propriety of including this powerful remedy, which always requires in its employment the nicest discrimination and the greatest caution, under the head of “ general treatment of asphyxia” is questionable. We shall therefore here merely state that bleeding has been strongly reprobated by some, and as strongly extolled by others, and shall reserve any further observations on its employment, until the particular varieties of asphyxia come under our notice. The measures just described for the reco- very of persons in a state of asphyxia, should be persevered in for several hours. When they are successful, the first signs of returning life are evinced by slight convulsive snatchings of the respiratory muscles at longer or shorter intervals, which are succeeded by gaspings and sighing. These convulsive respiratory efforts become more and more regular; the heart flutters, and palpitations succeed; natural respiration is at length restored, the heart’s movements become regular, the circulation is established, and the anxious finger at the wrist receives the announcement of restored anima- tion by the pulse. All danger to our patient however is not now over; on the contrary, many serious consequences may ensue. Dr. Paris gives the case of a corporal of the guards, who was seized with cramp as he was bathing, and remained for several minutes under water. By judicious assistance he re- covered, and appeared to those about him to be out of danger, when he was attacked with convulsions and expired. Another case is on record in which the most furious delirium came on immediately after resuscitation from drowning'. In all cases of restored animation, the effects of reaction should be cautiously watched, and combated, as the symptoms present themselves. VARIETIES OF ASPHYXIA. On referring to the causes of asphyxia it will be seen that we have reduced them to two general heads, either as the respiratory appa- ratus itself is directly or indirectly affected, or the respiratory medium, the air, is so dete- riorated as to render it unfit to carry out the essential chemical object of respiration. It now remains for U3 to consider briefly the va- rieties of asphyxia which are embraced under each division, and it will not only be more systematic, but also better suited for all prac- tical purposes, to treat of each in the order already given. We shall therefore take for our text, the causes of asphyxia, and consider each variety in succession ; at the same time dwelling more particularly on those varieties which most frequently present themselves to 1 Archives Gen. dc Med. the practitioner, or which demand either a modification of the general principles of treat- ment we have just noticed, or the employ- ment of other remedial agents. The first variety of asphyxia, or that which arises solely from external pressure upon the thoracic parietes, but seldom presents itself. In addition to the cases where the expansion of the thorax is prevented by the individual being buried up to the neck in the earth, or by his being enveloped in plaster of Paris for scientific purposes, we may notice others which must be fresh in the recollection of our readers, but which are now unknown. In Edinburgh, and in this metropolis, mon- sters in human shape destroyed the lives of their fellow-beings, by kneeling upon their chest and abdomen, so as to prevent the action of the respiratory muscles, at the same time ex- cluding the air from the lungs by closing the nostrils and mouth with their hands. In this way the miscreants soon extinguished the life of their victims, leaving few, if any, traces of violence. The negligence of the legislature to the anatomical wants of the practitioner and stu- dent in medicine, led to these atrocities.— Thanks to the indignation and horror which their discovery excited, the proper preventive has been since adopted, and the lives of citi- zens are protected from this source of danger. It consequently becomes unnecessary to dwell on this variety of asphyxia. The same course may be adopted as regards the second and third varieties, and we shall therefore pass to the fourth, in which asphyxia is induced by causes which prevent the access of air to the lungs, by producing obliteration of the respi- ratory tube. Of these causes of asphyxia, the most important to the practitioner, and at the same time the most interesting, are submer- sion, strangulation, and the presence of non- respirable gases. We propose to consider these in the order we have placed them. Submersion.—Asphyxia produced by sub- mersion, or drowning, is of any variety the most interesting, whether the frequency of its occurrence, the combined destructive in- fluences of the absence of atmospheric air, and the presence of water, or the phenomena which death by drowning exhibits, be consi- dered. In medico-legal investigations also, it is a question of paramount importance, whe- ther the individual whose body was found in the water came by his death from drowning, was placed there after life was extinguished with a view to avoid detection, or was intoxi- cated or stunned at the time of his submer- sion. When an individual is submersed, he makes an effort to inspire, and water is taken into the mouth; but as soon as this fluid reaches the glottis, its muscles are excited, and they contract spasmodically. This state continues so as to prevent almost totally the entrance of a fluid not fitted for animals who respire through the medium of the atmosphere, and produces asphyxia as effectually as if the tra-