G19 CANCER, PATHOLOGY OF. to cancer ; an opinion quite as hypothetical as its converse. A very prevalent mode of accounting for the greater frequency of the disease in the mamma and testicle is by referring to their constant exposure to mechanical injury; the theory has spread from the schools to the vulgar, who almost invariably ascribing the affection to a blow or some other local vio- lence, confirm in their turn the scholastic prejudice. Now in the majority of cases where such causation is voluntarily declared by the patients, or forced from them by the speculative pathologist, close sifting of then- previous history distinctly proves either that the morbid growth had commenced before the receipt of the injury to which it is attri- buted, and that in truth the only relation be- tween them is that the patient first discovered the diseased induration in looking after the effects of the blow ; or that the occurrence of the accident is purely imaginary. We have in several instances assured ourselves of this. Besides, among other illustrations, if local injury play so important a part in evolving the disease, is it not fair to infer that carci- noma of the cervix uteri should be materially more frequent in prostitutes than in women of regular life ? yet such is shown to be by no means the fact by the inquiries of Bresehet and Parent Duchatelet, and by the experience of all Parisian practitioners who have had oc- casion, in an official capacity, to treat the former class of females on a large scale. It follows from these considerations that the cause of the greater tendency of some organs than of others to cancerous deposi- tion is unknown. (e.) Anatomical Course.—(a.) The disease may, in its material manifestation, be confined to a single organ from the outset to the fatal termination; no organ but that originally affected presenting on post-mortem examina- tion any traces of cancerous formation. (b.) The disease originates in a single organ or tissue, whence it seems to spread, as from a centre, to a multitude of parts ; the latter are said to be affected with secondary cancer. Now the mechanism by which the disease is propagated must obviously vary, according as parts adjacent to or distant from the primary growth are the consecutive suf- ferers. In the former case the propagation is effected by the progressive interstitial depo- sition or infiltration of the morbid matter in tissues naturally continuous or contiguous ; or parts simply placed in juxtaposition or approxi- mation may, according to Dr. Hodgkin, with- out the pre-establishment of adhesion con- taminate each other. As instances of the latter mode of contamination, cases are re- ferred to, in which an ovary, the mesentery or the liver being the seat of a malignant tumour, the parts in contact with it, whether convolutions of intestine or abdominal pa- rietes, become similarly affected. In such instances, it might be questioned, adds this distinguished observer, and Rayer coincides with him, whether some principle, capable of deranging the nutrition of the part seconda- rily affected, does not pass by imbibition. The occurrence of cancerous formation in distant organs, when an effect of pre-exist- ing disease elsewhere, seems only intelligible as a result of transmission by the lymphatic or venous systems. The condition of the lymphatic structure in communication with a cancerous tumour varies. In some cases it is, to all appearance, normal; in the vast ma- jority of instances, when the disease has ex- isted for any length of time, the glands are affected with simple or cancerous induration1, while the vessels leading to them are either filled with the heterologous matter, or, as is more common, no modification is discernible in their anatomical state. Now when the tubes are themselves loaded with cancerous substance, and are, for example, traceable so loaded from the diseased organ even to the thoracic duct2, without any evidence existing of the matter being a product from the walls of the tubes themselves, the implication of the lymphatic system is evidently the result of absorption. But when the glands are can- cerous and the connecting tubes in the natural state, the condition of the former is not thus so satisfactorily explicable. The difficulty may, it is alleged, be obviated by supposing the secondary formation induced by congestion of the glands, itself excited by the irritation attending the progress of the primary growth. We are at a loss to under- stand, why the vessels themselves, in closest proximity to the disease, should not suffer, were this conjecture well-founded : the ana- logy of common or venereal irritation will not fairly apply here. Maunoir observes that in the advanced stage of encephaloid, lymphatic glands unconnected with the tumour by ves- sels sometimes become affected, and Sir A. Cooper has seen the axillary glands of the opposite side diseased in cancer of the mamma. In these cases the lymphatic car- cinoma must be admitted to occur inde- pendently of the existing growths, unless the statement of Scarpa, that the cancerous ichor sometimes passes circuitously along the anas- tomosing lymphatic vessels be well founded. As it is necessary to admit that the process of absorption, as a part of nutrition, is con- stantly going on in cancerous growths, it may be inquired why distant contamination does not occur from their earliest deposition. A parallel case may be cited. The pyogenic membrane or enclosing cyst of abscesses is by all admitted to be an absorbing and secreting agent, yet in how few cases of abscess does pus find its way into the circulation. Both facts may be explained by supposing that these vessels normally exercise a decomposing 1 Of a mass of glands in connexion with a can- cerous tumour, those nearest the latter are some- times, it is said, found distinctly carcinomatous, while the more distant are simply enlarged from irritation. 2 A. Cooper, Hourmann.