171 AMPUTATION. ran almost always be procured. If the dis- ease did not extend as high up as the articu- lation, the surgeon might easily avoid the difficulty of procuring a sufficient covering for the articular head of the metatarsal bone, by amputating in the continuity of the first pha- lanx in the same way, as if he was operating on the thumb. The small sesamoids may be left in the flap. Fig. 33. Fig. 33. Amputation of the great toe in its articulation with the first metatarsal; a great part of the flap has been taken from the skin and soft parts on both sides of the toe. Amputation of the little toe in its articulation with the metatarsal hone.—Should the oval method be inapplicable the flap may be formed from the side of the toe, as in the accompany- ing figure. Fig. 34. Fig. 34. Amputation of the little toe in its atiiculation with the fifth metatarsal; the flaps taken from the skin and soft parts on both sides of the toe. Amputation of the metatarsal bones in the con- tinuity.-—These bones are more closely set together than their analogues in the hand, and hence a greater difficulty in using the saw, more especially on the three central ones. Metatarsal bone of the great toe.—At the present day no surgeon thinks of attacking this bone in its tarsal articulation, for a dis- ease which can be removed by sawing the bone in its continuity, particularly since Richerand’s method of sawing it obliquely has put an end to the inconveniences which used to arise from its transverse section. Nor, on the other hand, does any one now maintain, that the metatarsal bones should be attacked in their continuity for a disease, which is removable by amputating at their articulations with the toes. As was stated of the metacarpal bones, the metatarsal bone, supporting the great toe, has been removed, without extirpating the toe itself. But this class of operations belongs to the article Resection, to which the reader is referred. The flesh is so unyielding under this bone, that it cannot well be pinched out into a bulky flap, allowing the knife to run down the side of the bone, as when we amputate the corre- sponding bone of the thumb ; it will, there- fore, be better to make an incision along the side of the bone, and penetrating to it through- out its entire length, until it reaches the pha- lanx ; the soft parts are then detached from the dorsal and plantar surfaces of the bone. These flaps are then held back towards the fibular side of the foot, so as to allow the knife to pass, at the upper part of the wound, into the interosseous space without wounding the edges, either above or below the foot; the knife is then carried rapidly along the in- side of the metatarsal bone, until it comes clear out at the interdigital commissure. The bone is next cleared of the soft parts still ad- hering to it, and a peace of wood, pasteboard, or a linen compress in several folds, being placed in the angle at the upper part to pro- tect the foot, the saw is carried through the bone, in an oblique direction from within out- wards and forwards. The arteries are tied, the flaps brought together, and a compressive dressing applied. Fig. 35. Fig. 35. Amputation of the metatarsal bone of the great toe in the continuity; the flap is thrown back towards the heel, and the bone is seen sawed in splice. Oval method.—When this method is re- sorted to, as it almost always is, a dorsal in- cision, beginning at the upper part of the bone, is carried down to the digito-plantar line that marks on the plantar surface the junction of the toe and sole of the foot; the incision con- tinues in this line, till it reaches the commis- sure, which it divides, and ascending on the inside of the bone, joins the first incision ob- liquely, a little below the point where it com- menced (g, h, s,—s, Ic, l,—n, m, f fig. 31). The soft parts are then detached from the bone above, and it is sawed obliquely through, as before. Amputation of the fifth metatarsal bone in its continuity.—The reasons that bind the sur- geon to operate in the continuity of the first metatarsal bone no longer have the same co- gency in the case of the fifth. Its removal at the articulation leaves but little or no defor- mity, the disarticulation is easily effected, and the portion of bone that would be preserved by operating in the continuity can be but of