176 AMPUTATION. soft parts diminish in bulk, from above down- wards, so that the limb tapers, both bones becoming comparatively divested of muscles, in approaching the ankle. Fig. 43. Fig. 43. Back view: a, b, and a, r, circulars, above the ankle ; d, c, circular at the place of election ; t, s, cir- cular 'amputation, in the broad upper part of the tibia near the articulation, with disarticulation of the head of the fibula; e,f circular at the knee-joint; k, l, m, double flap at the middle of the thigh ; u, v, circular, at the same point; h, i, ff, circular incision with the subsequent formation of two flaps (Ravaton) at the upper part of the thigh; x, y, z, sitigle internal flap at the upper paid of the thigh; 1, 2, 3, double flap, internal and external (Larrey) for amputation at the hip-joint; 3,5,4, single internal flap for the same; h, o, 7i, double flap, anterior and posterior ( Guthrie), for the same. Several circumstances concur to fix a place of election for amputating the leg. The pre- servation of the tendons of the flexors that bend the leg upon the thigh forbids cutting as high up as the tubercle of the tibia. The in- convenience of a too long stump, bent back- wards from the knee-joint, to which in these cases, the artificial leg is adapted, forbids the section at the lower part of the limb. The place of election for amputating the leg is therefore fixed at four fingers’ breadth, below the tubercle of the tibia, for an adult. But when the injury involves the place of election itself, many eminent authorities recommend amputation above this point in preference to an operation either at the knee-joint, or on the thigh. Larrey performed this amputation several times, even above the tuberosity of the tibia, at the same time disarticulating, instead of sawing the head of the fibula. Mr. Guthrie approves also of this practice, of sawing the tibia in its broad spongy tex- ture, near the articulations. For others, how- ever, the place of election is much lower than we have stated, and even some have con- tended that the rule of saving as much as possible, is just as applicable in the leg as in the fore-arm. The cicatrix, it is true, is ob- tained, perhaps with equal facility; but the difference in regard to functions of the fore- arm and leg is altogether in favour of the former, while it is decidedly against the latter. If an artificial hand be adapted to the stump of the fore-arm, the cicatrix is not pain- fully pressed by it, and it produces no further inconvenience than what might be expected to arise from its weight, while it saves the free use of the elbow-joint; but the cicatrix in the lower part of the leg has to bear the weight of the body between the ends of two bones, and the pad of the artificial leg. The only circumstance necessary for the revival of the practice of amputating in the lower part of the leg is the possibility of securing pro- tection for the cicatrix. The means hitherto employed for the purpose have not been, generally speaking, efficient; and in not a few instances, persons with these stumps have of their own accord solicited the performance of a second amputation higher up, to rid them of the evils they entailed upon them. Very pos- sibly, however, this may be a difficulty which the art is destined to triumph over, by a skil- ful adaptation of mechanical means. Amputation of the leg at the place of election. —Whenever there is room to perform it, and we have already stated, that the tibia may be sawed in its spongy head, as high up as the articulation of the fibula, this amputation is in all cases preferable to amputation of the thigh. In sawing the bone so high, however, some precaution is necessary, as the synovial mem- brane of the knee-joint sometimes descends a little over the front of the tibia. The ligament of the patella ought also to be spared both on its own account, and on that of the bursa mucosa which is placed behind it. Circular method.—In the application of this method, the convenience, to the operator, of laying hold of the upper part of the limb re- gulates his position, either on the outside or inside of the limb. In general, he places himself on the inside ; but he may also place himself on the outside, particularly if the right leg is to be amputated. The position on the inside of the limb is recommended, be- cause in using the saw from that side, the fibula is first divided. As regards the section of the bones, this may be an advantage ; but the division of the soft parts is matter of greater importance, and the rule ought to be to have the left hand above the section. The circulation is commanded by an assist- ant, either with a tourniquet applied over the femoral artery in the usual situation, or with his fingers, a hand pad, or key, against the pubis. Compression of the artery in the popliteal space is uncertain. The patient is placed on a table, or on the edge of a high bed ; the limb to be removed is confided to the hands of another assistant.