AMAUROSIS. 102 tions when there is a marked hysterical dia- thesis ; and when excess of nervous irritability exists, conium, hyoscyamus, opium, &c. may be beneficially employed. The occurrence of headach, or a sense of tightness about the thorax, forbids the con- tinuance of steel, or demands a diminution of the dose employed. The preparations of bark are generally in- compatible with the use of iron, but they are often of the utmost service in cases in which the latter remedy does not agree, and some preparations may be combined with great ad- vantage, as the sulphate of iron and quinine. I think the concentrated forms of bark the best in the cases we are now considering, as the extract, the liquor cinchona1 flavae, (of Mr. Battley) quinine, &c. After diarrhoea or dysentery, or in cases of profuse purulent discharge, the preparations of bark are usually preferable to those of iron. In some few cases I have employed strych- nine in small doses as a tonic, (grain -jQ and with benefit; I believe that its specific effect from larger doses would be injurious. The medical treatment must be modified according to the peculiar features of the case ; the object is gradually to increase power and promote the formation of red blood ; the ap- propriate remedy must be selected by the medical attendant, it would be almost an end- less as well as useless task (in my opinion) to attempt to explain more than I have done in reference to the treatment of the numerous modifications of asthenic amaurosis. I have already alluded to the close resem- blance which exists between some of these cases, and those in which the amaurosis is caused by cerebral pressure ; and the conse- quent liability to mistake in diagnosis and treatment; this point, perhaps, will be best illustrated by a few cases. A young and delicate female, about seven- teen years of age, having great nervous sus- ceptibility, and disposed to hysteria, was acci- dentally thrown from a gig with her father, who was a very large man. She fell upon her father, and was taken up without any mark of injury ; she was however dreadfully alarmed, and soon after attacked with a violent fit of hysteria : several hours elapsed before she could be roused from this under the use of the ordinary treatment, by stimuli, anti-spas- modics, &c. She then complained of exces- sive headach, with giddiness, confused vision, and heat of head ; the stomach was irritable : she suffered from great mental depression, and could not procure sleep. Whilst in this state her medical attendant (believing that she had received some concussion of brain by her fall) bled her : she fainted after the loss of about eight ounces of blood, and remained a long time in a condition approaching syncope. In a few hours afterwards her previous symptoms were renewed and became much aggravated, the headach almost intolerable, the depres- sion excessive, and the affection of vision in- creased, so that in forty-eight hours after the venesection she could not discern light. A few hours after the amaurosis was complete, she was brought to me, still labouring under the symptoms last mentioned ; but, in addition, I found her pallid, with cold extremities, and a quick, feeble, and easily compressible pulse: the result of the abstraction of blood was suf- ficiently indicative of the nature of the affec- tion, and to prove its asthenic character. I directed perfect quiet, the recumbent posture, small portions of nutritious matter to be given frequently, ten drops of the vinum ferri to be taken in weak wine and water every four hours, and an occasional dose of the compound decoction of aloes with manna, and a few drops of aromatic spirit of ammonia as an aperient. In forty-eight hours from the time I prescribed for her, her symptoms were greatly mitigated, and she began to perceive light again ; she soon recovered her ordinary condition of health, and lost her headach, feeling of depression, &c., but the functions of the retina returned very gradually; so that several weeks elapsed before she could tell the letters in the title page of a common octavo work ; being so far restored, I lost all knowledge of her for several months, when she was again brought to me nearly in the same state as when I first saw her; her father had failed in business, and she had suffered much from anxiety and privation, and had neglected all treatment. I put her under the same plan of treatment again, gradually in- creasing the dose of steel, and occasionally varying the form of medicine ; her health was rapidly re-established, and a very slow im- provement took place in vision, but after many months’ careful perseverance in the above means she obtained only sufficient vision to be able to make out a large print. I sub- sequently tried blistering, electricity, galvan- ism, and strychnine, but without any further benefit. Connecting the early symptoms of this case with the fall, many medical men would pro- bably have treated it in the outset in the same way. Had there been a careful examination of the pulse and circulation, and had the condition of these been carefully viewed with the other symptoms, it would have been perceived that the cerebral symptoms could not be depend- ing upon excess of vascular action ; the pulse which exists, in cases of cerebral mischief from injury, is either quick, sharp, and incompres- sible, or slow, laboured, and of moderate force. I have never found, under such circumstances, the quick, feeble, and easily compressible pulse, which occurs in most asthenic diseases. A gentleman, about thirty years of age, tall, well formed, and strongly made, consulted me in consequence of his being nearly blind, hav- ing only the perception of large objects. Belonging to an opulent family, he had availed himself of the opinions and advice of nearly all the medical men of eminence in the metropolis, and also of several provincial me- dical men : all whom he consulted viewed the case as one of cerebral disease of sthenic eha-