ANUS. 331 bronchitis, and in pulmonary affections gene- rally. Tartar emetic is also much employed to depress the vital powers, with a view, through the general relaxation thus produced, to favour the reduction of a luxation, the re- turn of a hernia, the cessation of spasm in the mucous canals, &c. The only other preparation of antimony employed in surgery is the protochlorurct, the muriat, or butter of antimony. It is one of the most violent caustics we possess, and is employed occasionally in cauterizing the wounds inflicted by rabid animals, or venom- ous reptiles, as well as those received in the dissecting-room, in checking fungous growths, in destroying warts, vegetations, and carious bones. It should be kept in well stopped bot- tles, as it is liable to be much weakened and converted into a yellow oil by absorbing moisture from the atmosphere. It is conve- niently applied by means of a roll of lint, which is dipped in the caustic at the moment of use. Its application to cancerous nodules is exempt from the dangers imputed to arsenic, for which it might be advantageously substituted; but it is liable to an objection of another kind, that, of spreading beyond the parts to which it has been applied, and being, from the difficulty of limiting its operation, extremely unmanageable. ANTIPHLOGISTICS (derived from avri, contrary to, and ipXoyiocic, inflammation). In its most extended signification, this term is applicable to all measures employed to sub- due inflammation. Under one head, however, would thus be included not only depletive, sedative, refrige- rant, and emollient means, together with pur- gatives, nauseants, and diaphoretics, but reme- dies of a totally opposite character, whose therapeutic operation in inflammations is se- condary or remote, as astringents and coun- ter-irritants, topically applied, and the medi- cinal substances internally administered under the name of revulsives or contra-stimulants. In order to avoid confusion, therefore, the term has been restricted to those agents only, which, by effecting an immediate reduction of vital action, whether locally or generally, are directly opposed to the conditions on which the phenomena of inflammation depend. These may be enumerated, at large, as follows :—General and local abstractions of blood ; purgatives, especially the saline ; nau- seating doses of emetic medicines ; reduction of the heat of the body to its natural standard, by means of cooling, diaphoretic, demulcent, and sedative medicines and drinks ; cold affu- sion ; warm and tepid baths ; regulation of the temperature of the atmosphere ; repose both of body and mind ; the topical application of cooling lotions, warm fomentations and poul- tices ; and, finally, a diet more or less limited in quantity, carried even, for a time, to total abstinence, and mild as well as easily digesti- ble in quality : all stimulating articles of food and drink being rigorously excluded. This last is generally denominated the anti- phlogistic regimen, and the combination of the whole forms the antiphlogistic system of treat- ment. (See Inflammation, Counter-irri- tants, and Contra-stimulants.) (Henry T. Chapman.') ANTRUM OF HIGHMORE, a ntre cl'Highmore, Fr.; Highmorshole, Ger. The name of a deep cavity formed in the sub- stance of the superior maxillary bone. The antrum is lined throughout by the Schneider- ian membrane, with which it is continuous, through its meatus of communication with the nostrils. (See Maxillary Sinus.) ANUS. The opening by which the rec- tum terminates, and by which the excrement is eliminated ; it is so named from its almost circular shape. The observations proposed to be made in this article will be mainly limited to the affections which implicate the terminal extremity of the alimentary tube. Those which involve the canal itself will be reserved for consideration under the respective heads of Haemorrhoids and Rectum. Thus restricting the subject, it is scarcely required for its elucidation, to enter into ana- tomical details ; but that important affection, anal abscess, which from its proximity is naturally associated with our present subject, forbids that we should entirely dispense with them. The anal aperture is a rugous slit, situated, in a direction from before backwards, midway between the tuberosities of the ischia, and is hidden from view by the approximation of the glutei maximi muscles. To terminate at this point, the rectum advances from the sacrum, and, according to the sex of the subject, passes under the bladder and prostate gland, or under the vagina, where it turns down- wards, and a little backwards, to offer the aperture in question. Its extremity is pro- vided with two muscles, which, from their position, are termed sphincters, and one of which serves also to maintain it in its situa- tion. One of these, the internal sphincter, is in direct contact with the mucous lining of the gut, and is, indeed, nothing more than an am- plification of the circular fibres which exist in the rest of its extent, and with which its upper margin is continuous. On introducing the finger into the gut, as far as the second joint, the defined margin of this circular band of muscular fibres may be easily felt through the mucous membrane ; and by the same mode of examination, it will be ascertained that its calibre diminishes as it descends from the bladder or prostate gland to the anus. It is stated in the American Cyclopaedia of Medicine', on the authority of Dr. Horner, the Professor of Anatomy in the University of Pennsylvania, that the external or longitu- dinal fibres of the gut do not insensibly dis- appear on their arrival at the internal sphinc- 1 Part VI. p. 81.