BRONCHOTOMY. elastic bougies are made by coating several times in succession, the silken, or linen, or cot- ton tube with the oil thus prepared, the bougie, when dry, being polished on porphyry. These bougies are also made solid, in order to obviate the too great flexibility, for which, particularly in the smaller sizes, the hollow ones are sometimes remarkable. They are made in a great variety of shapes, conical at the end, bulbed at the middle, &c., according to the nature of the case for which they are intended. The author of this paper has had them prepared at Savigny’s of the same shape as his self-guiding catheter, and he finds them answer the purpose as well as the silver instru- ment. At the commencement of the present cen- tury Mr. Smyth introduced a new kind of bougie, composed of a flexible alloy of the white metals ; these have been since very much improved : they are susceptible of a fine polish, are easily kept clean, they answer the purpose very well, especially in the higher numbers, and may be made either hollow or solid. The old bougies, prepared with catheretic or escharotic substances long since laid aside, and the armed bougie of more modern date, have given place to the port-caustic, an instru- ment by which the nitrate of silver (the sub- stance most generally employed) is brought with the nicest precision into contact with the morbid growth. The description of this in- strument, together with that of the exploring bougie, will be found in the article which treats of strictures of the urethra. The sizes of bougies are designated by numbers augmenting from 1 to 20, or 24. The indications thus given, however, are un- certain, as the standard varies in almost every manufactory. The inconveniences hence arising are by no means inconsiderable in respect to description, and it would, therefore, be very desirable to have some fixed measure of graduation. This could be very easily established by taking half a line for unity, and augmenting half a line for each ascending number. The length of these instruments varies from ten to twelve inches, and the outer, or manual extremity, is headed with sealing-wax, ivory, or a flat bone handle. The history of the bougie, like that of many other instruments employed in surgery, con- tains the history of the improvements that have taken place during the last century in this department of the art. “ The bougie, with its application,” says Hunter, “is perhaps one of the greatest improvements in surgery which these last thirty or forty years have produced. When I compare the practice of the present day with what it was in 1750, I can scarcely be persuaded that I am treating the same disease. I remember, when about that time I was attending the first hospitals in this city, the common bougies were either a piece of lead, or a small wax candle ; and although the present bougie was known then, the due preference was not given to it, nor its 507 particular merits understood, as we may see from the publications of that time.” Bibliography.—Goulard, Mem. sur les Mai. de PUretre et sur les Remed. spec, pour les guerir. Montpellier, 1746. Andre, Sur les Mai. de l’Uretre qui ont besoin de Bougies. Paris, 1751. Nouvelles Obs. sur la fourniture des Bougies ckir. 1766. Olivier, Lettre sur les avantages des Bougies creuses, Paris, 1750. Daran,Obs. Chir. sur les Mai. del’Uretre. Paris, 1758—1768, et Comp, du remede, 1779. Haeger, Ce- reolorum Historia, eorumque usus c hiring.' Halle, 1795. Hebtwig, art. Bougie, in Encyclopadisches Worterbuch der Med. Wissenschaften, t. vi. Berlin, 1801. Smyth, Brief Essay on Flexible Metallic Bou- gies, London, 1804, and the various Dictionaries of Medicine and Surgery. Jacobi, Nonnulla Cereolorum in curanda Urethrae Strictura usitatissimorum origine et usu Diss. Berlin, 1829. ( W. B. Costello.) BRAIN, see Head. BRONCHOCELE, see Goitre. BRONCHOTOMY, (Luftrdhrenschrdtt, Ger.) This term is derived from /3poyx°C, the windpipe, and rtgvio, to cut; and, therefore, includes the operations of Laryngotomy and Tracheotomy. The operation consists in making an opening into some part of the air tubes, in order to admit air into the lungs, for the purpose of freeing the patient from the effects of obstructed respiration ; or for the removal of foreign bodies. I shall first give a sketch of the history of the operation ; then consider the various cir- cumstances under which its performance may be required ; and, lastly, detail the mode of operating1. History.—The earliest account we have of the application of mechanical means for the relief of symptoms depending on impeded re- spiration, or rather the first recommendation for such application, is found in the third book of Hippocrates, “ De Morbis,” supposed to have been written about four hundred years before Christ. The following extract is a literal Latin translation of the remarkable pas- sage, in which this recommendation is given : “ Ex angina dicta homo suffocatur, et fauces magis occupare videtur, ut neque salivam, neque aliud quicquam deorsum trahat, oculi aflecti sunt, ac velut eis qui strangulantur pro- minent, et per eos contente intuetur, neque eos conuertere potest, crebro se jactat et ex- ilit, facies et fauces incenduntur, ac etiam col- lum. His verb qui vident nihil mali habere videtur, et visus et auditus hebescit, nihilque prae suffocatione intelligit, neque quid dicat, aut audiat aut faciat, sed jacet ore hiante sali- vam effundens Quin et per medica- mentum aut infusum deorsum purgarc oportet, fistulccque in fauces ad maxillas intruendee, quo spiritus in pulmonem trahatur, efficicndumqae ut quam citissime spuat, pulmoque extenuandus.” Celsus does not allude to this passage, but after stating in the fourth chapter of his fourth 1 The practical part of this article formed the Prize Essay of the Dublin Medico-Chirurgical Society, for 1839 ; and was read before the society, April 27,1839.