ALVINE CONCRETION. 69 Glasgow as in Edinburgh. In the Hunterian Museum of the former, there is a very small collection of alvine concretions, amounting to fifteen only; and Professor Burns has informed me, that in the course of his very extensive practice, “ he had met with no case he could ascertain by the progress, or the discharge of the concretion, or by examination after death, to have been one of intestinal concretion ; nor had any of his medical friends met with a case of intestinal concretion, which they could es- tablish to be such, by post mortem examina- tion.” Physical characters of alimentary concretions : —Size.—The size of these concretions is ex- tremely various. Some do not exceed that of a garden pea; but others are as large as an orange. My grandfather has described seve- ral he met with, as being five, six, seven, and even eight inches in circumference ; and from the body of a woman, who consulted my father, a concretion was taken out of the co- lon, three years after by Mr. Renton, sur- geon, in Pennycuick, which weighed four pounds. Figure.—The large concretions are more irregular in figure than the small; the former have an outer crust, which gives them a very unequal surface ; some seem to be made up of a congeries of smaller calculi. This may be probably owing to the additions made to the surface of the calculus during the time it remains fixed within a certain portion of the intestinal canal. Thus a calculus which had been moveable becomes fixed, the convexities on the surface becoming adapted to the conca- vities within which the concretion has been lodged. Some alvine concretions are perfora- ted by a number of small holes like certain corals. The smaller concretions are some- what of an oval or spherical shape, slightly flattened at the sides, which is probably occa- sioned by the friction and pressure of one con- cretion upon another ; and some impress each other so much as to resemble cup and ball. In a case described by my grandfather, in which several concretions were passed, “ the largest of the five balls, which was the first voided, was five inches in circumference, and something globular, but with several promi- nences and flat surfaces. Most of the flat parts had a smooth shining tartarous thin coat; the rest of it was more rough, and of a spongy appearance. The two last brought away were less in bulk, and without so much tartarous crust; the two small ones were all covered over with a shining tartarous crust, which in several places was prettily variegated with different shades of an ashy colour. One of them had some resemblance in shape to the shell of a tortoise ; the other, the smallest, to two pyramids, joined by a common base1.” Colour.—The colour of the smaller calculi differs from that of the larger, the former hav- ing no external coating. The colour of the surface of thirty-five of the concretions in the Museum of Edinburgh, is nearly the same, re- 1 ^ idc Quarto edition of his works, p. (>G8. sembling that of bad yellow ochre of iron ; whereas, most of the larger calculi are en- crusted with earthy matter, of a coffee or pur- ple colour, and others by white matter which seems to have been deposited in thin succes- sive layers. Structure.—The human alvine concretions which were collected by my father, are, with a few exceptions, similar as to structure ; all are more or less porous, and somewhat like dried sponge ; when examined by the aid of a good magnifying glass, they seem to be made up of a number of very small fibres, inti- mately interwoven with each other, like those in a hat, or in chamois leather, and the in- terstices between the fibres are filled up by earthy matter. In consistence, these concretions resemble dried sponge, and, like it, may be cut with a sharp knife ; but when a blunt knife is used, the dried concretion crumbles to pieces. There are small holes on the surface of a few con- cretions, which pass for about half an inch into the substance of the calculus ; and in one of the specimens there were twelve cavities of a cylindrical form, which penetrate as far as the very centre of the concretion, and were filled with a viscid mucous. The external crust of the larger concre- tions seldom exceeds two or three lines in thickness, and is deposited in layers, which when dry are friable, and apt to split and crack off. In some of the specimens the ex- ternal earthy crust covers only a part of the calculus. Upon making a section of most alvine concretions, they are found to be com- posed of distinct layers of a yellow or brown colour, but in some the layers do not pervade every part of the calculi ; in some, there are no layers observed. But those found in the deer form an exception to the above observa- tion, for some have a radiated structure, like biliary calculi. The lamellae, which are about two lines in thickness, are generally of a lighter colour than the rest of the calculus, but sometimes they are darker. The exter- nal form of the calculus seems to determine the course of the layers, or vice versa. If the calculus be of an oval shape, the component layers of it follow a similar direction ; the sur- face of the layers is disposed so as to corre- spond in its course with the irregular surface ; the lamellae, upon a minute examination, do not form one continued line, as in biliary or urinary calculi. In the centre of the concre- tion, a prune or a cherry-stone, or a small piece of bone, or a biliary calculus, is generally found. Upon a minute examination of all sections of the human concretions, which are collected in the museum of the University of Edinburgh, a nucleus may be distinctly ob- served. In some of these concretions the nucleus is large and very easily seen, being a plum or cherry-stone, or a fragment of wood or bone ; but in the majority, the nucleus is small and not very apparent, and looks very like a number of particles of common sand, held together by a viscid mucus. In some there are cavities, tilled by small