ERYSIPELAS. 165 with tonic infusions, stomachic aperients to promote the intestinal secretions, while hyper- catharsis should be carefully avoided, and as early as possible a light analeptic nourish- ment should form the basis of the general treatment. The local treatment should vary according to the state of the eruption, and in a thera- peutical point of view, three periods should be established. In the first, that of active hypersemia, stimulating and tonic applications would be injurious by increasing the fluxion- ary movement, and thus adding the effect of distention of the capillaries to that of their actual weakness, they would tend to arrest the course of the circulation and promote consecutive gangrene : mild refrigerant ano- dyne topics should be alone employed in this stage to moderate the inflammatory fluxions ; but care should be taken not to prolong their use beyond this period. In the second stage, that of passive hypersemia and local asphyxia, the limit between life and death, these means would but tend to extinguish the little life that yet remains ; all our efforts should tend to revive the drooping vitality, and obstructed circulation ; and stimulant applications, warm teribinthinated or spirituous fomentations ap- plied so as to prevent evaporation and con- sequent refrigeration, will best fulfil this in- dication. Blisters have been seen to produce gangrene in this form of the disease ’. In the last stage, that of sphacelation, tonic, antiseptic and detergent topics should be re- sorted to : chloride lotions and unguents, carrot poultices with powdered charcoal, powdered bark and lemon juice poultices, and creosote applications, will limit the gan- grene and correct septic products, while warm yeast cataplasms, resinous terebinthi- nated unguents, balsamic epithems, and es- charotics, will quicken the process of elimina- tion and promote reparation. Analogous internal means should concur to the same end : efficient tonics, bark1 2, am- monia and wine, should be administered freely, but with discernment, and due regard to the susceptibility of the stomach and intestinal canal ; and diluted chloride drinks, campho- rated cordials and opiates, should be associated with these means, and with the use of analeptic food of the easiest assimilation and apportioned to the powers of the stomach. Ataxic Erysipelas, like the preceding form, is always connected with serious constitutional disturbance, claiming all the surgeon’s care. The local treatment is nearly negative : the great tendency to metastasis should be vigi- iently guarded against, and whatever may tend to promote it should be sedulously avoided. 1 Patissier, Op. cit. 3 The sulphate of quinine has been latterly made to supersede, unjustly, all other preparations of bark : the decoction and vinous maceration of hark, the watery and resinous extracts of this substance contain, some virtues, which the alkali of this vegetable and its salts, that contain more exclusively the antipcriodic principle of the bark, do not possess. With respect to the eruption, if its march be regular, we simply maintain an equable tem- perature of the part by the application of carded cotton ; produce a sufficient degree of excitation in it by means of warm spirituous fomentations, if it should prematurely fade; and promptly recall it to its primitive seat by blis- ters, if metastasis should supervene. The general treatment consists in control- ling the ataxic or inordinate nervous state by the administration of antispasmodics and sedatives, and particularly by the prolonged use of the tepid bath, as recommended by Dr. Chomel *. Dr. Velpeau found great benefit in these cases from the use of pills composed of one grain of camphor, four of nitre, and three eighths of a grain of opium, to be taken every two hours2. Strom has published four cases of erysipelas of the face accompanied with very grievous symptoms, in which the internal administration of balm mixed with beer was promptly followed by the most salutary results3. Drastic purges should be avoided : they would but debilitate the patient, and tend to recal the fluxionary movement to the interior, and promote me- tastasis. When this grievous occurrence takes place it should be promptly combatted on the principles elsewhere laid down. Venesection however should be practised with great cir- cumspection, as large depletion would inevit- ably precipitate the patient into disastrous collapse. The cedematous form of erysipelas is rarely accompanied with constitutional excitement sufficient to justify depletion. It is particu- larly in this variety that tonic astringent topics, mercurial inunctions, and uniform com- pression are usefully employed in conjunction writh the internal use of diuretics, mild evacu- ants, and tonics. There is, howrever, an active form of oedema which Dr. Bretonneau calls “ plethoric cellular dropsy,” in which com- pression would be dangerous4 and a pure an- tiphlogistic treatment is required. The local application of leeches, blisters, and punctures is inadmissible in oedematous erysipelas, especially of the lower extremities, and when preceded by longstanding anasarca : gangrene too frequently follow's the applica- tion of these means not to entirely proscribe their use under circumstances of this kind. Phlegmonous Erysipelas presents various in- dications of treatment according to the stage of the disease, and it is consequently of the utmost importance to justly appreciate and distinguish its different grades. In the first grade the indication is to effect the resolution of the inflammation, and thus prevent suppuration. The various general means, rest, the horizontal or even elevated position of the limb, diet, emetics, purgatives, &c., as recommended in the treatment of the 1 Op. cit. 3 Lancette Francaise, tome v. no. 27. 1831, 3 Acta Nova Rcgiae Societ. Med. Havniensis, vol. i. « These citee.