19 EAR, AND HEARING, DISEASES OF. says he has in many cases destroyed polypi by merely pinching them frequently with the for- ceps. In polypi of small size, very deeply seated, and having their origin on or near the membrana tympani, the caustic is, perhaps, the only means that can be employed for their removal. In operating on polypi in the auditory pas- sage, it is indispensable to have good daylight. Scarcely any precise rules can be laid down as to the mode of performing the operation, as every thing depends on the ingenuity and dexterity of the operator. The polypus ought to be detached as close to its root as possible. If very soft and vesicular, it immediately falls together after a slight wound, and the remains may be easily removed with a forceps. After a polypus has been removed, its root is to be touched with lunar caustic, which for this purpose is secured in a holder, such as is represented in the annexed figure. The part for the recep- Fig- 191- tion of the caustic is of platinum, the rest of the instrument of silver. Dr. Kramer has found the acetate of lead solution useful in repressing the tendency of polypi to sprout out afresh ; when the repeated application of the lunar caustic was attended with pain, or in cases of small excres- cences, in which caustic had failed, or in which it was not thought ad- visable to apply it at all. In the case of hard and insensible excres- cences with abroad base, and having slight, if any, inclination to bleed on being touched, little can be done. They cannot be reached by ligatures and cutting instruments; the only resource would be in caustics, did not the irritation thereby excited do more ill than good. In tumours of the te- gumentary lining of the auditory passage, espe- cially those already men- tioned as rising up in front of the membrana tympani, as little can be done as for excrescences of cartilaginous hard- ness. Even after the suc- cessful removal of poly- pous growths, the near- ing may be but incon- siderably, if at all, im- proved, in consequence of the co-existence of other morbid changes. Frequently, however, the deafness having been owing merely to the stopping up of the passage, hearing is in a great degree, or perfectly restored. The excrescences which arise from the membrane lining the cavity of the tympanum, when the membrana tympani is perforated or destroyed, will be noticed in treating of chro- nic otitis interna. Cancerous growths in the auditory passage will be further noticed under the head of cancer involving the internal ear. 2nd. Of the middle ear, comprising the tjanpamim and its ossicles, the mastoid cells, and Eustachian tube. (a) Anatomy of the middle ear. Tympanum.—The cavity of the tympanum is a space lying at the peripheral surface of the labyrinth or ear-bulb, and measuring from above downwards as well as from before back- wards, about eight-twentieths of an inch, and from without inwards about three-twentieths. It is bounded internally by the outer wall of the osseous labyrinth; externally by the membrana tympani, and that portion of the temporal bone into which it is framed. An- teriorly, the Eustachian tube leads from it into the throat; and posteriorly and superiorly it communicates with the mastoid cells. The cavity of the tympanum is traversed by a chain of small bones, extending from the membrana tympani to the vestibular fenestra, and is lined by a very delicate membrane of a fibro-mucous character, which is prolonged into all its sinuosities and dependent cavities, such as the cells of the mastoid process. This membrane is, moreover, reflected on the parts which traverse the cavity, and envelopes them. The lining membrane of the tympanum is continuous through the medium of that of the Eustachian tube, with the mucous membrane of the throat. Examined in the dry bone, the inner wall of the tympanum presents a considerable emi- nence ; behind and below which is an opening somewhat of a triangular form, and in a fossa above it, another opening, about twice the size of the preceding, and of an ovoid shape. The eminence here alluded to is called the promontory, and is formed by the commence- ment of the cochlea. The opening below and behind the promontory is the fenestra ro- tunda, called also, from its opening into the cochlea, cochlear fenestra, and the opening above it the fenestra ovalis, or, from its open- ing into the vestibule, vestibular fenestra. Above the vestibular fenestra is an elon- gated ridge running horizontally, within which is the aqueduct of Fallopius. Below this, and behind the vestibular fenestra, is a small eminence called the pyramid, the apex of which, directed forwards and a little outwards presents an opening, leading into a canal or elongated cavity. The muscle of the stapes is lodged in the cavity, and its tendon issues by the aperture in the apex of the pyramid.