833 CORNEA. The following is a case of cylindrical defor- mation of the cornea produced by injury, but in a direction the converse of that pre- sented by Mr. Airy’s eye:—An angular frag- ment of iron, about half an inch long, chip- ped off by a chisel, penetrated the right cornea of Samuel Lamont, within a line of its upper margin. Though immediately re- moved, it produced cataract and dislocation of the lens, with very violent inflammation, which continued unabated for five weeks be- fore the patient came to the Glasgow Eye In- firmary, notwithstanding blood-letting, leech- ing, and blistering. The lens was extracted by Dr. Rainy, with the same striking relief which extraction generally affords in such cases. The cornea, at his admission, was more convex in its horizontal than in its ver- tical section, as if it had been compressed laterally. This form, which it permanently retained, served materially to impair the patient’s vision. The retina appeared to be sound, and he saw considerably more distinctly when he viewed objects through a four-inch convex glass1. With such unnatural conformation of the cornea, a point appears to the eye a line of a certain length ; a circle an oval; every thing being seen elongated in one direction. The cylindrical deformation has been met with oblique, so that a square appeared a parallelo- gram. The defect is remedied by glasses which, to the healthy eye, would make a line of the same length appear a point,—which would, in fact, shorten all objects in the same degree and in the same direction, as they were length- ened by the defective eye2. Each case of cylindrical cornea being thus more or less peculiar, lenses must be specially prepared for it; and it is evident that this de- mands both skill and intelligence on the part of the optician. The general principle on which the glass is shaped, Mr. Ross informs me, is this : One side of the lens is made a portion of a cylinder, of the same diameter as the cylinder cornea, having its axis, however, placed at right angles to that of the latter. The other side of the lens is made plane, con- vex, or concave, to suit the condition of the eye irrespective of its cylindricity. Conical Cornea. This change in the form of the cornea is not necessarily connected with any inflamma- tory symptoms, though in some cases such have been observed 3. Objective Symptoms.—Along with disturb- ance of vision, the cornea is observed simply to become more and more prominent in or about the centre ; and this prominence usually rises rather abruptly. When viewed from the 1 Mackenzie's Practical Treatise on the Diseases of tile Eye, ed. 3d, p. 342; London, 1840. 2 On the Use and Abuse of Spectacles, hv Andrew Ross, optician, Regent Street. * Figure 1. VOL. I. front, the eye affected with conical cornea has a peculiarly brilliant and sparkling appearance, in consequence of the light being reflected in many different directions. Viewed in profile, the cornea appears dark between the apex and base of the cone. When the prominence of the cornea is considerable, the eye cannot be kept long and steadily directed forward, but is, by the action of the eyelids, always turned either to the one angle or the other. The apex of the cone in time becomes more or less opaque, and even ulcerated,—a state attended of course with some inflammatory action. Subjective Symptoms.—Short-sightedness first attracts attention, and, by-and-by, vision be- comes very indistinct at any distance. The patient can then recognize objects only when held close to the eye to one or other side, so that the rays of light may pass through the cornea as near its circumference as is com- patible with their entrance into the pupil. In this state, haif-closing the eyelids assists vision. The patient generally sees objects multiplied. This, Sir David Brewster ascer- tained to be owing to small inequalities on the surface of the deformed cornea. Conical cornea is rather a rare affection. Females have been found more frequently the subjects of it than males ; and young persons, than old. Though it occurs most commonly after puberty, Mr. Wardrop has met with conical cornea in a boy of eight, and Dr. Ammon once saw it congenital in three sisters. Both eyes usually become affected either at the same time or one after the other. Less commonly is the disease limited to one eye. For the most part, the cornea slowly undergoes the change to the conical form. Diagnosis.—The morbid affections of the cornea, which might be confounded with conical cornea, are :— 1st. The spherically prominent cornea, oc- curring as a consequence of corneitis. 2d. Hernia of the cornea. 3d. Partial staphyloma of the cornea and iris. 4th. Conical staphyloma. The characteristics of these, and their dif- ferences from conical cornea, will be pointed out in the proper place; here it is necessary only to remark that, as in the early stage the vivid reflection of the light is not apparent, the nature of the case may be altogether over- looked, if the practitioner does not take care to examine the eye from the side. Dr. Hull1 mentions that he has known a practitioner prescribe at random for a lady, “ who was obliged as she was leaving the presence, to inform him that her disorder was conical cornea!” Morbid Anatomy.—Opinion has been di- vided on this point ; some asserting that the centre of the cornea is thickened, others maintaining the contrary to be the fact. The late Dr. Jaeger, of Erlangen, examined the eyes of a person affected with conical cornea, 1 Cursory Notes on flic Morbid Eve, i>. 37. 3 H