24 EAR, AND HEARING, DISEASES OF. whole of the ossicles, first the malleus, then the stapes, and lastly the incus, came away, the hearing, as is alleged, was not deteriorated. In regard to such cases, Van der Hoeven asks, whether the fenestra ovalis may not be again closed by a new membrane, and the pe- rilymph thus allowed to accumulate, as the aqueous humour, to which it is analogous, does on the closure of a perforating ulcer of the cornea. The following facts in acoustics, ascertained by experiment, Muller 1 adduces to show how the fenestrae,—that closed by membrane only, and that by the base of the stapes and its con- necting ligament—transmit the sonorous un- dulations from the air to the fluid of the laby- rinth. The use of the fenestra rotunda and the membrane closing it, is shown by the fact that sonorous undulations are communicated from air to water, through an interposed membrane with greater intensity, than from air directly to water. Sonorous vibrations are also communicated without any perceptible difference of inten- sity from air to water, when to the membrane forming the medium of communication there is attached a short solid body, which occupies the greater part of its surface, and is alone in contact with the water. This fact, Muller remarks, elucidates the action of the fenestra ovalis, and of the moveable plate of the stapes which occupies it, in animals living in air, but destitute of tympanum and membrana tym- pani. It may be added that it also shows how the sound may be communicated through the fenestra ovalis, as well as the fenestra rotunda, in those cases in which the membrana tym- pani is destroyed, and the malleus and incus lost. Muller illustrates the propagation of sound by the membrana tympani and ossicles, by the fact that a small solid body, fixed in an open- ing by means of a border of membrane, so as to be moveable, communicates sonorous vibra- tions, from air on one side to water, or the fluid of the labyrinth on the other side, much bet- ter than solid media not so constructed. But the propagation of sound to the fluid is ren- dered much more perfect, if the solid conduc- tor, thus occupying the opening (fenestra of the labyrinth) is by its other end fixed to the mid- dle of a tense membrane, which has atmosphe- rical air on both sides (membrana tympani). It has been said that the muscles of the ossicles,—the stapedius muscle, and muscle of the malleus, are both tensors of the tympa- num, and that a relaxator muscle is not re- quired, as relaxation of the tympanum takes place when the tensors cease to act. Both the stapedius and the tensor tympani present the microscopical characters of volun- tary muscles. This, together with the fact Berlin, 1835. Vlodorp, in Van der Hoeven, Dies, pathol. de Morbis Aurium Aiiditbsque, Lugd. Batav. 1824, p. 50. * Handbuch der Physiologie des Menschen, vol. ii. p. 426, or Translation by Baly, p. 1247. that the former receives its nerves from the facial, and the latter from the pterygoid, is a proof that the action of these muscles is volun- tary, and that the analogy which Dr. Arnold supposed to subsist between the iris and oph- thalmic ganglion on the one hand, and the membrana tympani, the tensor tympani mus- cle, and his so-called otic ganglion on the other, is not well founded. (c) Exploration of the middle car. The mucous membrane of the Eustachian tube is continuous with that of the nose and throat; the lining membrane of the cavity of the tympanum is continuous with that of the Eustachian tube, and the lining membrane of the mastoid cells is continuous with that of the tympanum. Through the Eustachian, tube atmospherical air is admitted to and from the cavity of the tympanum, and a condition essential to the due performance of the func- tion of the tympanum is, that its cavity be always filled with air : such are points to be borne in mind in exploring the Eustachian tube and cavity of the tympanum. In a case of deafness, in which nothing irre- gular or morbid is found in the external au- ditory passage and membrana tympani, atten- tion is naturally turned to the Eustachian tube and cavity of the tympanum ; but as a preli- minary, it is of consequence to examine the state of the nose and throat. In nasal catarrh, in which there is tumefaction of the Schnei- derian membrane, the nostrils are more or less impervious to the passage of air, the pa- tient, therefore, has to breathe principally or solely through the mouth. The catarrhal inflammation extending to the mucous lining of the Eustachian tube, that lining becomes tumefied, the passage is consequently ob- structed, and deafness to a greater or less ex- tent accompanies the catarrh. The inflam- mation and tumefaction in quinsy, may, in like manner, extend to the Eustachian tube, and produce similar effects on hearing. More chronic affections of the nose and throat are found accompanied by deafness. Chronic inflammation and thickening of the mucous membrane of the nose or throat, or both toge- ther, are frequently accompanied by a similar state of the mucous membrane lining the Eustachian tube and cavity of the tympanum. Nasal polypi and enlarged tonsils sometimes press upon the mouth of the Eustachian tube, and give rise to dulness of hearing. It is to be remarked, however, that this symptom is not a constant attendant of nasal polypi and enlarged tonsils, and when it is, it may in some degree be attributed to the inflamed and thickened state of the mucous membrane of the nose and throat accompanying those dis- eases, extending to that of the middle ear. A congenital affection of the nose and throat, cleft palate, is sometimes accompanied by deafness. There being no affection of the nose or throat sufficient to arrest attention, endeavours are to be made to ascertain the state of the Eustachian tube and cavity of the tympanum.