160 AMPUTATION. plied, in order to support the flap somewhat firmly against the second metacarpal bone. Velpeau has often amputated, by making a dorsal incision from the styloid process of the radius to the middle of the commissure, and dividing at once the skin, extensor ten- don, and a portion of the first interosseous muscle. The joint is thus laid bare at the first stroke. The assistant separates the lips of the wound ; the arti- cular ligaments are di- vided with the point of the knife, and the head of the bone being now luxated, the knife is carried under it, and the operation ter- minated by cutting out- wards along its sur- face. Fig. 15. c, b, a, show the. lines of incisionfor performing the amputation of the thumb by the oval method; the dotted lines, c, a, show the course of the incision by which their extremities are united on the palmar surface. The oval method is particularly well suited for this amputation. A dorsal incision, begin- ning a little above the articulation with the trapezium, is carried down till it terminates on the ulnar side of the first phalanx of the thumb (h,a). At this stroke the bone is laid bare. The hand is then put in supination, and the incision is continued round the root of the thumb, in the digito-palmar line (e, a), and is thus brought up (c, b) till it joins the com- mencement of the first incision. The articu- lation is then laid open, and all its ligaments divided with the point of the bistouri. The soft parts still adhering to the bone are then detached, by the knife being carried down till it joins the incision of the palmar line. Fig. 16. Fig. 16 represents the flaps resulting from the oval method: the bone is seen at the upper angle of the wound. The oval, as a general method, is perhaps the best for this particular amputation. The cicatrix is linear, and the adhesion takes place with remarkable rapidity. But it is not so promptly performed as the amputation by flap, and it requires greater dexterity on the part of the operator. When the metacarpal bone alone is dis- eased, modern surgeons have been successful in extracting the necrosed or carious bone, without involving the phalanges in the abla- tion. The process by which this is effected is not, strictly speaking, an amputation, but a resection ; to which head the reader is re- ferred for a description of the mode of per- forming it. Metacarpal bone of the little finger.—Flap method.—This bone is united at its carpal ex- tremity to the next metacarpal bone by a plane articular surface, protected by liga- mentous bands ; it also shares with it its arti- culation to the unciform bone. It may be discovered on the dorsal surface, by inclin- ing it outwards, and feeling for the slight de- pression which corresponds with the articular interline, just in front of the pisiform bone. ' This amputation may be commenced, either by first forming the external flap, or the flap may be formed in terminating the operation. If the surgeon prefers forming the flap first, the assistant draws the soft parts away from the back and palm of the hand, in order to preserve as much of the hypothenar eminence as possible. The bistouri is passed through on a level with the carpo-metacarpal articula- tion, and made to glide along the ulnar side of the bone till it arrives two lines lower than the commissure between the little and middle fin- gers, where the incision terminates (t, l). The little finger is then separated as much as pos- sible from the ring-finger, and the edge of the knife is carried rapidly through the commissure, up the radial side of the bone (n, o), till it reaches the opposite side of the joint, enlarging the upper angle of the incision, by pressing the point of the knife on the dorsal and the heel on the palmar side of it. Some surgeons (among whom Lisfranc,) begin the second in- cision opposite the commencement of the first ; the soft parts are so drawn away from the bone towards the radial side of the hand, that the point of the knife may easily be made to penetrate through the interosseous space, without again wounding the skin. The soft Fig. 17. Fig. 17 represents the amputation of the little finger with a single flap: the two articular surfaces, from which the head of the metacarpal has been removed, are seen at the upper angle of the wound. parts are then divided with a sweeping cut, which runs along the radial side of the bone, and terminates at the interdigital commissure. The ligaments of the articulations are then divided with the point of the bistouri, either from within outwards, or from without in- wards, following the dorsal line, and the head of the bone is luxated, and at once removed. The steps of the operation may be reversed; but being essentially the same, it is unneces- sary to go over the description again. The oval method has been employed for this amputation by M. Scoutetten. The mode of