277 ANEURISM. of times it has been performed. Up to the present time, it is estimated to have been successfully employed in about forty cases, some of which have been attended with cir- cumstances more or less worthy of remark. The case of Mr. Kirby of Dublin was followed by hernia which made its appearance through the line of the incision of the abdominal mus- cles. In Dr. Post’s case, the peritoneum was so thickened and diseased, that he could not raise it from the subjacent parts, and was ob- liged to make an opening in it. The protru- ding viscera were then pushed back, and with a needle the ligature was introduced under the artery, the peritoneum being also included in the ligature. The patient nevertheless did well. In Mr. Newbiggin’s case, there was inguinal and popliteal aneurism of the same limb, and both were cured by the ligature of the external iliac. Both the external iliacs were tied by Mr. Tait, the first on the 8th of May 1825, the second on the 16th of April 1826, and with perfect success, notwithstand- ing that the peritoneum was opened on one side. Arendt was much more bold; for he tied both the iliacs in succession, with an in- terval of eight days only between the opera- tions, and was also successful. The aneurisms of the external iliac ar- tery are almost always spontaneous. Velpeau however relates a case of traumatic aneur- ism or rather of a wound of this vessel, in which by temporary compression time was obtained for placing the ligature. The pa- tient was a robust young man, 17 years of age, who while cleaning a table in a dark place had inadvertently stabbed himself in the groin with a ham-shop knife, opening the iliac artery transversely about a quarter of an inch above the epigastric. The blood gushed out in torrents. Drs. Layraud and Durand, who were on the spot almost immediately, compressed the artery, two inches above the wound, and thus stopped the haemorrhage while a messenger was dispatched for M. Velpeau. On his arrival, he at once laid bare the vessel and tied it. The ligature was not discharged till the 35th day, and the patient recovered perfectly. This interesting case illustrates two points : 1st, that a previous dilatation of the vessels, which are to carry on the circula- tion after the ligature of the main trunk, is not indispensably necessary to protect the limb from liability to gangrene, and 2d, that com- pression may be successfully kept up on a vessel of this magnitude, until efficacious suc- cour may be obtained. Compression, conjointly with general treat- ment, has in a few instances been successfully employed in inguinal aneurism. In Guattani’s case, the pressure was made upon the artery itself, which he had previously laid bare, where it passes over the branch of the pubis. Ligature of the Epigastric Artery :—If this vessel were wounded in the operation for exposing the external iliac, it would be the surgeon’s duty to secure it, before he pro- ceeded further. But it may also be wounded under other circumstances. Bogros gives the following rule for cutting down upon it. An incision two inches long, is made just above and parallel with Poupart’s ligament, and about equidistant from the spine of the ilium, and symphysis of the pubis. As soon as the aponeurosis of the external oblique is ex- posed, a director is passed under its inferior edge, and it is divided in the same direction as the external wound. On raising the sper- matic cord, the orifice of the internal ring is seen ; this is dilated with the finger, and the artery is found behind its internal edge and sheltered by the fascia which forms that edge. The ligature is easily applied ; but it should be placed close upon the wound, in order to leave space for the coagulum between it and the main trunk. Fig. 95. Fig 95. Aneurism of the external iliac artery, forming an enormous tumour in the groin. INTERNAL ILIAC ARTERY. The course of this vessel is nearly perpen- dicular from the point where it is detached from the primitive iliac, in front of the sacro- iliac symphysis, down to the sacro-ischiatic notch. It is accompanied by the internal iliac, or hypogastric vein. The ureter passes obliquely in front of its origin. Spontaneous aneurism of the internal iliac is so rare, that only one case of it is recorded. This case was observed by Sandifort. But its branches, the external ones more especially, are exposed to injuries from wounds which require the interference of the surgeon ; and there are several instances on record of pa- tients dying of haemorrhage from traumatic or spontaneous aneurisms of the gluteal ar- tery, from the want of timely succour. Ligature of the internal Iliac Artery:—My friend Dr. Stevens of Santa Cruz, was the first to place a ligature on this vessel, in 1812, for an aneurismal tumour situated in the but- tock, and which in the space of nine months, had attained to a very considerable size. The patient was a female slave. Having pre- viously satisfied himself of the practicability