862 DELIVERANCE. being expelled with the membranes reversed, and its foetal surface downwards. When this is the case, it is obvious, the upper edge must, in its separation, have been momentarily ear- lier than the lower, and thrown towards the wall opposite that on which the mass was im- planted, a direction the membranes, which usually remain longer adherent, tend still further to give it. But as the membranes arising from the upper edge pass over the fundus, and down the opposite wall to the os tincae, they must be much longer than at the inferior edge ; and the length of the latter will show how far from the os the placenta was actually situated. As this, however, will not be sufficient to tell us to what wall it was ap- pended, I adopt the expedient of inserting a pin (as it lies on the bed fully expelled) into the margin close to the patient’s thigh. Thus I am able to distinguish the anterior from the posterior part Recollecting now, that the upper edge is thrown towards the oppo- site w'all, it must be evident if the long mem- brane be found at the pubal margin, the pla- centa must have been on the posterior wall; if at the perineal, on the anterior. The same will hold' good with respect to the lateral parietes.” If the uterine surface descend first, it follows, that “ the secundines will tell an exactly opposite tale to what they ought. For instance, if the placenta be on the poste- rior w'all, and the lower edge is first or simul- taneously detached, it may be directed by the perineum towards the pubis ; and the short membrane will then be there found, after it is expelled. This error, however, can be easily guarded against, by watching which surface descends foremost If the membranes be of equal length, or nearly so, all round, the placenta was, of course, at the fundus.” Acting on these rules in 100 cases, it was found that in 25 cases the placenta was attached to the anterior wall; 8 right side below theFallopian tube; 10 left, do. do.; 2 fundus ; 54 posterior wall; and of these only tw-enty-seven came within two inches of the lowest part of the cyst. Though these observations probably ap- proach the truth, we cannot but feel that they are put forward with an undue amount of con- fidence ; for of seventy-five cases the writer has personally attended since he began to pay attention to the secundines to determine the position of the placenta, he finds no less than thirty-nine in which the result is marked as doubtful, because it was not certain that the direction of the mass had not been changed by the action of the uterus, or during its pas- sage through the vagina. In all these cases it had been implanted low down in the uterus, but whether posteriorly or laterally was doubt- ful. In tw’o cases it was near the fundus ; in two partially attached over the os uteri—in both cases anteriorly; in fifteen it w'as high up laterally ; in seven on the anterior wall ; and the remaining ten were on the posterior surface, the lower border varying from one to three inches from the os uteri. Naegele lays considerable stress on the situation of the placental souffle in determin- ing the position of the placenta, the sound, when heard in both groins, being more dis- tinctly audible, and over a larger space, on the side of the uterus to which the placenta is attached. In ten cases of adherent placenta the truth of this observation has been proved by the introduction of the hand ; and in all Dr. Doherty’s cases the situation diagnosti- cated by the stethoscope corresponded to that determined by examination of the membranes. The stethoscope can be so little employed for this purpose in private practice that we can- not speak to its value from observation, but give the result of Naegele’s report of 600 cases, as his remarks differ in some degree from those of Dr. Doherty. Of these. In 238 cases it was situated on the left side of the uterus ; — 141 right, do.; — 20 no uterine sound perceptible ; — 160 so weak, and limited so completely to the inguinal region, or else so dif- fused over the whole surface of the abdomen, that the seat of the pla- centa could not be determined ; — 7 it was situated at the fundus ; — 13 on the anterior wall ; — 11 over the os uteri1. While then there is no direct proof that the uterus expands in the mode described by Mr. Carmichael, and great reason to believe that no such pulley-like contraction can take place, we have adduced sufficient evidence to prove that the placenta may be attached to parts of the uterus which indisputably contract, without separation, or disturbance of its func- tions. And further, it is not proved that the placenta is universally formed at, or some- where near, the fundus ; for on reference to published plates on abortion, and preparations in different museums, it is found that such is not the case, even in a majority of instances. Neither is it proved that the growth of the placenta cannot correspond with that of the uterus; the results of measurement have varied ; and it appears very probable that Gendrin’s theory as to the manner of growth of this mass is correct. He believes that the line formed by the reflexion of the decidua vera into decidua reflexa limits the extent of the placenta, and that the expansion of the uterus enlarges this space without interfering with the original fixture of the centre of the placenta2. Dr. Doherty supposes that the immunity from injury, enjoyed by the placenta during labour, is accounted for by the small space through which the fundus descends before the expulsion of the foetal head ; this slight dinii- 1 Treatise on Obstetric Auscultation, by G. F. Nacecle, Trans, by Chas. West, M.D., p. 77, 78. 2 Traite Philosophique dc Medecine Pratique, t. i. p. 2G8.