62 ECTOPIA. viscera of the three cavities are, almost with- out exception, all liable to this species of displacement. Hernia may occur from one of these cavities into another, or into the sub- cutaneous tissues investing or adjoining to the cavity which contained the displaced viscus. Practically speaking, herniue occurring in connection with the abdomen are infinitely the most important; and the precise point of the walls of that cavity, which gives issue to the displaced viscus, frequently exercises marked influence on the character of the lesion. Upon the position in which they occur is founded the division of abdominal hernias (chiefly intestinal) into : Inguinal { internal } (Jiubonucelc) ■ if reaching the scrotum, (oscheocele J. Femoral, ( meroce/e ). Umbilical ( omphalocele, exomphalos). Ventral. Perineal. Vaginal ( holpocele ). Pudendal. Thyroideal. Ischiatic. Sacro-rectal. Phrenic. Of the thoracic viscera the lung is in very rare cases the subject of hernia (pneumocele J. VIII. Dislocation. A dislocation is that species of displacement, in which the natural relations of articulating surfaces are more or less completely destroyed. It is of two kinds : X- Luxation, if/. Diastasis. The displacement is called a luxation when the affected articulation is of the moveable kind or diarthrodial ; it is termed diastasis when the injured joint belongs to the immove- able or synarthrodial class. The interarti- cular cartilages are, as well as and independ- antly of the bony surfaces, susceptible of dis- placements, which may be included under the present head. Dislocations are divided: 1. into complete and incomplete, with reference to the amount of displacement effected : 2. into mechanical and spontaneous from their being sometimes the direct effect of violence (whether this be applied from without, or depend upon power- ful and irregular action of the surrounding muscles), and sometimes the consequence of disease affecting either the joint itself or the muscles and ligaments which maintain the articulating surfaces in apposition ; to which we should add by detrusion, in order to include cases wherein the dislocation is produced by the growth of tumours, &c. in the manner to be presently described : 3. into simple and compound, according as the implicated joint does not or does communicate with the ex- ternal air by a wound. IX. Detrusion (from detrudo, to thrust away). By this term may be expressed all heterotopiae which arise from the displacing action of the parts around them, whether these be of adventitious formation or not'. Of this kind is the right-lateral displace- ment of the heart, produced by abundant effusion into the left pleura, or by the rapid absorption of such effusion in the right pleura (vide Empyema) ; the separation of the patella in hydrarthrosis from the sur- faces with which it lies in habitual contact; the displacement downward of the liver, some- times produced by effusion in the pericardium ; the removal of the eye from the orbit by a tumour growing either within that cavity, the cranium, or the antrum &c ; the separation of the eyes by tumours developed in the frontal sinuses (vide Fig. 169. vol. i. p. 666). Fig. 211 represents a very extraordinary example of this species of displacement affecting the eye and auricle, observed by Dr. W. Roper of Charlestown, South Carolina2. Fig. 211. 1 In order to avoid multiplication of classes, those displacements which are the results of a tractive as well as a detrusive force are included under the pre- sent head. 2 Vide Lond. Med. Repository, vol. v. p. 246, 1016.