44 ACUPUNCTURE. to which they are united. Acetic acid forms the basis of oxycrat. Diluted with water, it is often useful in checking an inflammation which threatens to supervene from blows, falls, and sprains. ACHILLIS TENDO, funis Hippocratis, Lat.; tendon d’Achi/le, Fr.; Achillesjlechse, Ger. The strong flat tendon common to the gas- trocnemii muscles, which is inserted into the os calcis. It is generally well developed in dancers, and good pedestrians. It derives its name from Achilles, who was wounded in this part at the siege of Troy; this tendon was, according to Homer, the only vulnerable part of the warrior’s body, he having been dipped, by his mother Thetis, in the river Styx. The tendo Achillis is sometimes rup- tured. (See Tendons, rupture of.) ACIA, from atcr), a point. Commentators are not agreed as to the exact sense in which this word was employed by the ancients. Ac- cording to some, it meant the needle, or the thread, and to others, a particular kind of suture ; “ acia mollis, non nimis torta.” ACOLOGY, a term employed by some German writers to designate that branch of surgery which treats of surgical instruments. (See Instruments, Surgical.) ACTUAL CAUTERY. The term ‘actual’ means that which acts suddenly, or instanta- neously. The words, ‘ actual cautery,’ are applied to iron at a red or white heat, or to heated liquids, and contradistinguishes this mode of cauterizing from the ‘ potential,’ or virtual, which is not immediate in its action. (See Caustics, Cauterization.) ACUPUNCTURE (from acus, a needle, and punctura puncture) is a medico-chirurgi- cal operation, which consists in the introduc- tion of needles, to be hereafter described, into many different parts of the body. Acupunc- ture has been practised from time immemorial amongst the Chinese and Japanese, from whom it was introduced into Europe a century and a half ago by Ten-Rhyne, a medical officer in the Dutch East India Company’s service, and who had resided some time in Japan. Men- tion of it first occurs in the medical literature of Europe, in a Thesis de Arthritide, published by him in London, in 1693. Additional in- formation on the subject was contributed by Koempfer, in his Amcenitates Exotica, in 1712. It was again noticed by Dujardin, in his His- toire de la Chirurgie, in 1774, and by Vicq D’Azyr, in the Encyclopedic Methodique, who speaks of it, among other means of irritating or stimulating, “ as capable of calming violent spasms, and restoring sensibility in organs, in which this function is weakened.” Notwith- standing, it did not obtain any credit as a therapeutic agent, till Berlioz made trial of it in 1810, in cases of neuralgy; and made known the resu'ts to the Academy of Medi- cine. His views respecting the value of acu- puncture, with several cases in which it was successfully employed, are recorded in his work on Chronic Diseases, fc., published in 1816, at Paris. No one, however, seemed as yet prepared to adopt the recommendation of Berlioz. Some years after, Dr. Haime of Tours, into w hose hands an account of Berlioz’s cases had fallen, and Bretonneau, about the same time, made numerous trials of its safety and efficacy. Haiine’s cases were published in 1819, in the Journal Univeisel, In England, Mr. Scott, of Westminster, and Mr. Churchill employed it; the former published his results, and a short account of the mode of performing it, in 1821. Hitherto, how'ever, it has been more exten- sively employed by M. Jules Cloquet, than by any other practitioner ; his views on the sub- ject, have been published by Dr. Dantu, one of his pupils, at the Hopital St. Louis. In St. Thomas’s Hospital, I have applied it ex- tensively in cases of rheumatism ; the results were published in the fourteenth volume of the Medico-Chirurgieal Transactions. The needles employed should be very slen- der, and sharp-pointed, and furnished with a head of ivory, metal, or sealing-wax. The Japanese supply them with handles. Those employed in Paris have handles that can be fastened to, or removed from the blunt end at pleasure; and this is a good mode of ar- rangement, as one handle will be thus suffi- cient for any number of needles. The handle is not only useful for the introduction of the needle, but also, when the thickness is not in- creased at the blunt end, for preventing it from sinking altogether into the soft parts,—a circumstance which has sometimes occurred, without, how'ever, being productive of bad consequences. The needles employed in Europe have been made of steel, vary- ing from one to four or five inches in length from the handle ; those of the Japanese are invariably of fine gold or silver; and their manufacture is con- ducted only by a few persons, who ob- tain the emperor’s privilege for the pur- pose. The operation itself constitutes a special occupation in the East: the points at which it is deemed proper, accord- ing to the nature of the disease, to plunge the needles, are marked by dots or lines on pasteboard puppets, called Tsoe-bosi, w'hich are hung out as signs over the ope- rators’ shops. They serve as guides tor the application, either of moxa or acu- puncture ; red dots indicating the proper place for the moxa, green ones for the punctures. The situation of these dots does not seem to have been arranged with reference to the large arterial or nervous trunks, as will appear from in- spection of one of these dolls now in the museum of the faculty of medicine of Paris. One of the chief places of election is the middle of the space be- tween the umbilic and the pit of the stomach. Most commonly, the operation is performed in this situation by prick- ing or puncturing nine punctures, ranged three by three in parallel lines, about half