EAR, AND HEARING, DISEASES OF. 13 sionally becomes complicated with polypous growths from the walls of the auditory pas- sage, or from the membrana tympani. The membrana tympani may from the first be in- volved in the inflammation, or become secon- darily affected, or may remain in a great de- gree untouched. Sometimes the skin at the bottom of the auditory passage is found swollen and raised up before the membrana tympani, like the conjunctiva in chemosis. In this case, a mere stripe of the membrana tym- pani is discoverable on examination through a chink left by the tumid skin, and that, I have observed to be in the direction of the handle of the malleus. The case alluded to was one of long standing, and proved, as such cases generally do, incurable. Ultimately, the chink on one side closed by the approximation of the tumid skin, and nothing of the membrana tympani was any longer discernible. In examining a case of otorrhcea, attention is to be directed to ascertain whether the source of the discharge be the auditory pas- sage alone, or whether the discharge do not also come from the tympanum, the membrana tympani being destroyed, or from within the cranium, the petrous bone being perforated by caries; or whether it comes from some part in the neighbourhood of the ear; or from an abscess in or about the parotid, and only com- municating with the passage by a fistulous opening. Treatment.—In the acute stage of the disease the local abstraction of blood, fomentations, and counter-irritation should be adopted ; but it is generally not until the stage of otorrhcea that it comes under the notice of the surgeon. Inflammation of the auditory passage with discharge, being, like ophthalmia tarsi, fre- quently connected with a faulty state of the constitution, it is of consequence that atten- tion should be directed to the general health. Regulating the diet, and the employment of purgatives will be found useful preliminaries. The state of the skin must also be looked to, and antimonials employed if necessary. After- wards tonics or alteratives according to cir- cumstances, together with occasional laxatives. Any irritation about the mouth and teeth must be looked to. The first point in the local treatment is to keep the auditory passage clean by gentle syringing with tepid water. If there be much tenderness, leeches should be applied before having recourse to counter-irritation, which should then be kept up for some time, by means of the tartar-emetic ointment, or by repeated blisters on the side of the nape, not close to the ear, as the disease is frequently aggravated by their irritation. If swelling still exist, causing contraction of the auditory passage, smooth round stripes of sponge tent arc to be introduced and left to expand. The pressure thus produced causes the swelling to subside, and the epidermis to desquamate. Great caution is necessary in the use of astringent injections. They ought not to be begun until after leeching and counter-irrita- tion, and then they must be employed weak. The acetate of lead solution gradually raised in strength, from one grain to ten grains to the ounce of distilled water, will be found both convenient and efficacious. It is to be poured in three or four times a day after the passage has been well cleansed by syringing. Solutions of the sulphate of zinc, muriate of mercury, nitrate of silver, and various other substances have been recommended. Too often the disease resists remedies, or after subsiding for some time relapses. An attack of cold, or the improper use of astringent injections, may aggravate the in- flammation and cause suppression of the dis- charge ; in which case severe pain of the head and other alarming symptoms come on. The application of leeches and warm fomentations should be employed to subdue the renewed inflammation and bring back the discharge. Purgatives and antimonials are at the same time to be used. Afterwards counter-irrita- tion at a distance from the part. Phlegmonous inflammation of the auditory pas- sage.— The seat of this inflammation is usu- ally in the outer or cartilaginous part of the auditory passage, that is, where there is most cellular tissue. It manifests itself by heat and pain, slight at first, but in the course of a short time extremely severe, accompanied with throbbing, and extending over the whole half of the head. The pain is aggravated by pres- sure, or when the lower jaw is moved. The auditory passage feels as if stuffed up. Violent buzzing in the ear and a considerable degree of dulness of hearing never fail to be present. The auricle and auditory passage are found red and swollen, and the latter so much con- tracted and so sensible to the touch, that no particular examination can be made. The part is at first dry, but afterwards there is a discharge of a reddish serum, sometimes of a few drops of blood. There is some fever, which becoming exa- cerbated at night prevents sleep, in which case slight delirium sometimes supervenes. If the above described symptoms be not at the first subdued, an abscess usually forms, which, bursting, gives vent to a thick yellow matter streaked with blood, whereupon the patient experiences striking relief. The dis- charge daily becomes less, and the auditory passage gradually reassumes its natural width. The noises in the ear entirely cease, and in the course of time the usual power of hearing is re-established. On examination now, the membrana tympani will probably be found rather opaque. Severe as the symptoms above described frequently are, those which attend an acute attack of otitis interna are still more so. This and the circumstance that internal inflam- mation of the ear, in the commencement at least, leaves the auditory passage perfectly untouched, will assist the diagnosis. Phlegmonous inflammation of the auditory passage is generally attributed to cold. It sometimes occurs along with cynanche tonsil-