ABSCESS. 27 densed cellular tissue. Sometimes, the isola- ting sac is formed without cellular tissue, as in abscesses of the brain ; in most cases, however, it is formed by the surrounding condensed cellular tissue, together with, organized mat- ter, which is effused during the suppurative process. The pus of an acute abscess, is in general cream-coloured, or whitish, homogeneous, soft to the touch ; it is heavier than water, in which it is partly dissolved ; it is free from unpleasant smell, and as long as, the air is excluded, it exerts no irritative action, be- yond that of its bulk on the tissues in which it is confined : in colour, it bears a strong analogy, to the mucus, secreted from mucous membranes, under the influence of irritation ; but the colour excepted, it differs from it, in almost every other respect. It is said, that mucus will float in water, while pus sinks to the bottom of the vase : this state- ment stands in need of explanation. The mucus of calculous patients, or of persons labouring under chronic inflammation of the bladder, does not float in the urine, but is deposited, and adheres, with great tenacity, to the bottom of the vase ; if detached with an instrument, and beaten up in the water, it will not dissolve in it, but floats as long as the water is kept agitated, in the shape of soft fleecy lamellae, which subside without adher- ing again into a viscid mass, as soon as the water is allowed to rest; pus, on the other hand has none of this elastic toughness, it mixes, or is dissolved, in a certain proportion in water, giving it a whey-like, or lactescent appearance; the rest, falls to the bottom : if the supernatant fluid be poured off, without dis- turbing it, the pus will be easily recognized by its greyish white colour, and inelastic oily flow, when the vase is lifted upon its side. Pure mucus is always characterized by this viscid tenacity. When the mucus voided in the stools, in vomiting, in expectoration, or in the urine, assumes a greater degree of opacity, and becomes puriform, it is often of great im- portance to determine whether the fluid voided, be not the matter of an abscess, developed in the tissue itself, of those organs, or of the neighbouring parts ; the method above men- tioned of examining the fluids voided, will be often found satisfactory, in lieu of other tests. (See Pus.) Whatever be the character of abscesses, or however rapidly or slowly, they may be form- ed, some pathologists have considered that their march might be divided, into three pe- riods ; in the first, the pus is secreted in the cells of the inflamed structure ; these cells successively break into each other, and form a common centre. In the formation of this ca- vity, however, there is no real loss of sub- stance, the walls are simply forced apart, and condensed. In the second period, the abscess is matured, and if not masked by thick and resisting parts, it tends towards the surface of the body, under which, it presents itself, in the form of a tumour. The movements of a fluid . can now be discovered in the tumour, by palp- ing with the fingers alternately, two points of its surface ; and this undulation, in various de- grees, is the peculiar characteristic of the fully formed abscess, the facility and certainty of the diagnostic, being directly relative, to the fulness of this fluctuation. The third period includes the termination, which may be ef- fected by resolution, in which the pus is ab- sorbed, the cavity which contained it disap- pearing ; or by evacuation through spontaneous or artificial openings. When the termination by either of these modes of opening, proceeds favourably, the pus is at once, or gradually discharged ; the cavity which contained it be- comes by degrees narrower, till its sides join again, and little or no trace, save a slight de- gree of induration and redness, and perhaps a little more than the usual sensibility of the parts,remains to mark the situation, in which it had been developed. Of the less favourable termination of abscesses, we shall speak here- after. We have passed in review the different ana- tomical states of an abscess, from its commence- ment, to the period when an accidental mem- brane, circumscribes the purulent collection. Let us now examine the nature of the boun- dary, which isolates the pus, from the sur- rounding tissues, and the functions which it performs. The conditions of this wall, or cyst will be found to vary, according to the degree of rapidity, or slowness with which the abscess has been formed, the parts which it occupies, the intensity of the phlogosis in the surround- ing tissues, &c. In the acute abscess of rapid formation, the development of the cavity is too sudden, to allow the cyst to be much al- tered, from the condition of the cellular tissue, which surrounds the centre of irritation ; but when it takes place slowly, and in parts, abound- ing in the cellular element, as for instance, in lymphatic ganglions, or in the interstices of deep seated muscles, its walls attain a con- siderable degree of density and strength. The cellular tissue being the chief constituent of this boundary, whenever an abscess is formed in organs, where this element is scanty, the cyst will be in the same degree attenuated; thus, in the soft parenchyma of the brain, it will have the appearance of a delicate vascular membrane, which can be scarcely distinguished from the substance of the brain itself. The functions of this boundary or cyst, are by no means limited, to confining the pus, within the living organs, but form in them- selves an interesting feature, in the history of purulent collections. The external surface of this accidental sac is continuous with the sur- rounding parts, and on this connexion, its life depends ; its internal surface which is in con- tact with the pus, on account of the exhalation and absorption which take place upon it, fur- nishes points of analogy with the natural se- creting membranes. This surface is of a red- dish grey colour, and tomentous or filamentous texture. The pus within this cavity there- fore is not in the condition of a foreign body, but is continually acted upon by the internal sur- face of the sac modifying its quality, increasing