8 EAR, AND HEARING, DISEASES OF. ally produces sloughing, as in sick persons long confined to bed. Boyer 1 mentions a case, in which a large ulcer on the sacral re- gion compelling the patient to lie on his side, a slough formed on the anthelix. After it came away, there remained a hole large enough to admit the point of the little finger. Erysipelas of the auricle.—This is more apt to occur than phlegmonous inflammation. It is usually owing to wounds or some mechani- cal or chemical irritation of the auricle itself or of the auditory passage, or to the spread of general erysipelas of the head and face. The skin of the auditory passage generally parti- cipates in the disease, in which case the pas- sage is contracted, and a sanious discharge issues from it. The membrana tympani being covered by a delicate continuation of the in- tegument, is also apt to be involved. Under favourable circumstances, as the erysipelas subsides, the auditory passage again becomes free, and the morbid secretion disap- pears ; the disturbance in the function of the organ, which consisted in some degree of dul- ness of hearing, attended by buzzing, at the same time ceases. If this is not the case, ex- amination of the auditory passage is to be made, lest any accumulation of wax and exfo- liated epidermis or crusts of inspissated mat- ter, have taken place, or the membrana tym- pani suffered. The treatment of the erysipelas itself is, of course, not different from that of erysipelas of the head and face generally. Herpes and Eczema of the auricle.—The au- ricle is particularly liable to be affected with herpes and eczema, so that there are, distin- guished by writers on the diseases of the skin, “ herpes auricularis,” and “ eczema aurium.” Eczema aurium, or, as it is commonly called, “ sore ears,” is one of the varieties most com- monly met with. In infants, the disease, which in them is not to be confounded with intertrigo, is apt to break out during the pro- cess of teething. In women it is frequently connected with disordered menstruation, both at the time of life when that periodical dis- charge first occurs and when it ceases. In the acute stage there is great heat and itchiness ; the ears are red, swollen, and co- vered with vesicles, from which issues a reddish fluid ; chaps and excoriations are formed. The auditory passage does not fail to become im- plicated, if it has not been so from the first; there is an acrid, puriform, and stinking dis- charge from it; and, on examination, its calibre is found very much contracted, in consequence of the tumefaction of the lining integument. The cutaneous layer of the membrana tym- pani is likewise apt to suffer. This state of parts is accompanied by violent buzzing and singing in the ear, and more or less dulness of hearing. The disease usually becomes chronic ; in which case the red and thickened skin is co- vered with crusts or scales of a yellow colour, 1 Traite lies Maladies Chirurgicalcs, Paris, 1822, vol. vi. p. 5. between which are fissures, whence exudes a reddish fluid. The following is the state of the cars in a lady aged about fifty, at the period of two years after the complaint first broke out, and for which no particular treatment was em- ployed :—The auricles reddish and swollen, and covered in the conchae with a whitish scurf. The skin of the auditory passages also red and swollen, so that their calibre is con- tracted. There is a light-coloured, bad-con- ditioned secretion, like a mixture of pus and wax. The membrana tympani on both sides has suffered. Its cutaneous layer is so much thickened that the handle of the malleus no longer forms any projection, its position being indicated merely by a red vascular line. The colour of the rest of the membrane is dirty yellow. Hearing much impaired. In bad cases the whole auricle may be con- verted into a knobbed, shapeless, and lumpy mass. Treatment.—Bloodletting, general or local, purgatives, and the use of pediluvia ; followed up by mercurial alteratives and compound de- coction of sarsaparilla, with sulphur baths, and counter-irritation, make up the more ge- neral treatment. In regard to the dressing of the parts themselves, bathing with tepid water is all that is required or can be borne at first; by and by a weak solution of acetate of lead may be used, and the excoriations and ulcera- tions anointed with unguentum zinci. For the treatment of the auditory passage, see Inflammation of the tegumentary lining of the auditory passage, fyc. Boils on the auricle.—The auricle is some- times the seat of boils. In a patient who complained of very severe pain in the ear, there was found a boil about the size of a pea within the mouth of the auditoi'y passage. It burst, gave issue to some bloody matter and a flock of dead cellular tissue, and then quickly healed *. Somewhat more than usual atten- tion should be paid to the maturation and evacuation of boils, especially when near the entrance of the auditory passage. Hearing suffers for the time only, and that, in propor- tion to the contraction of the meatus produced by the attending inflammatory swelling. This affection has been met with in a very severe form in mad persons 2. Cancer of the auricle.—Mr. Travers remarks 3 that the auricle is rarely an original seat of cancer, although not unfrequently attacked by the encroachment of an ulcer on the cheek. He mentions, however, his having once seen the upper third of the external ear the ex- clusive seat of an indurated sore, having every character of cancer. He amputated the dis- eased piece; the wound healed, and at the 1 Die Ohrentzundnng von Hcrrn Professor Dr. Krukenbcrg. In his Jnhrbiicher tier ambulatorischen Klinik zu Halle. Bd. ii. p. 203—252. Ilallc, 1824. 2 Dr. Fr. Bird, in Grade, und Walthcr’s Journal, Bd. 19. H. 4. p. 631—638. 3 On Malignant Diseases, part ii. in Mcdico-Chirur- gical Transactions, vol. xv. p. 252. London, 1829.