CLUB FOOT. 782 fiuence of the respiratory system of nerves in producing disorder of certain muscles of the trunk, and thus occasioning curvature of the spine1, led Dr. Stromeyer through the se- condary to the primary sources of club-foot, exposed its real nature, and enabled him to lay down the true system of treating it with so much certainty and amplitude, that suc- ceeding writers have done little more than confirm the principles, for the development of which we are indebted to him. A brief notice of the various opinions held by those who preceded him is called for in justice to them ; and will further serve to elu- cidate the steps by which we have arrived at a more scientific and successful method of treating these hitherto neglected affections. The scope of this article will not, however, be confined to the new surgical treatment ; it will likewise embrace a notice of the mecha- nical means by which the same object may sometimes be attained, and a consideration of the circumstances which should influence us in selecting one or the other mode of treat- ment. I. THE NATURE AND CAUSES OF CLUB-FOOT. Its nature.—Till within a recent period, club-foot was supposed to originate and con- sist in mal-formation of the bones of the tar- sus, more particularly of the astragalus, the result either of primitive monstrosity or of morbid changes in the bony structure, as from rickets. From a mere external inspection of feet thus distorted, it would naturally be surmised, that imperfection or unnatural for- mation of the bones themselves was the cause of the deformity. The extreme predomi- nance of congenital instances of talipes, over those in which it is acquired in after-life, would lead to the further conclusion that such de- fective formation was original. This opinion, more or less modified, was maintained by Glisson, Camper, Blumenbach, Colies, and Cruveilhier ; and an anatomical examination of talipes in subjects at a late, or even at an adult period of life, would appear to warrant the conclusion. Such was like- wise the persuasion of Delpech in his first publication on club-foot2, although he subse- quently found reason to abandon the idea. The consequences of the prevalence of such an opinion were most serious. It necessarily followed that, excepting during the very ear- liest stage of existence, the deformity must be regarded as incurable. Scarpa3, whose atten- tion was directed to this distortion in infants, stances attending this deformity. Dr. Stromeyer was present at the operation, performed at Hamburg dur- ing the meeting of the German Association of Natur- alists, and states, that it was sanctioned by some of the first surgeons in Germany.—Bcitriigc zur operativen Orthopadik, p. 60. 1 Ueber Paralyse der Inspirations Muskelu.—Han- nover, 1836. 2 Chirurgie Clinique de Montpelier, 1823. 3 Memoria Chirurgica sui Piedi torti.—Pavia, 1803. Translated by Weisheart of Edinburgh. ascertained that the bones themselves exhibited very slight deviations from their natural forms : displacement, in a greater or less de- gree, “ a rotation on their axes,” of the os- calcis, os-scaphoides, and os-cuboides existed ; but he asserts, that, of the four tarsal bones, the astragalus, so far from being the chief cause of the deformity, presented the least alteration both of form and position, being invariably more or less completely situated within the articular cavity formed by the tibia and fibula. Mackeever1 and Palletta2, who, like Scarpa, met with opportunities of examining the anato- mical characters of club-foot soon after birth, drew a similar conclusion, namely, that the departure from the natural condition resulted rather from displacement than from primitive mal-formation of the bones. Tourtual1 car- ried back his researches to a still earlier period. His report of the dissection of the distorted feet of a seven months’ acephalous foetus, substantiates the main point detected by the three former writers—the simple mal- position, originally, of the tarsal bones. Dr. Little’s observation of the anatomical condi- tion of the foot in talipes (see figs. 171J) agrees generally with the account given by Scarpa ; therefore, notwithstanding the opposing au- thority of Cruveilhier, whose minute investi- gation of the morbid anatomy of club-foot will claim our notice in a future division of the subject, we may venture to affirm, that the opinions, relative to the nature of these dis- tortions, of the majority of those writers who have considered the matter pathologically, concur in the following points : That although more or less deviation from the natural form of the bones of the tarsus may generally be detected, and does, in some few instances, con- stitute a spurious variety of the deformity, dis- placement of these bones, more particularly of their articular facets, invariably exists, and must be regarded as the distinguishing feature of genuine club-foot. The morbid changes which have been ob- served in talipes will be more fully considered hereafter. Causes of the distortion.—On this point a great variety of opinions has prevailed. That alteration of the relative position and connexion of the tarsal bones, which, ac- cording to the evidence adduced, appears to be the real nature of club-foot, has been supposed by some writers to originate in ar- rest of the natural development of the foot, in consequence of undue compression of the foetal limbs by the uterus. Von Walther has even 1 Edinburgh Med. Journal, vol. xvi. p. 220. 1820. 2 Excrcitationes pathologic®, p. 138. Medio], 1820. 3 Zweiter anatomischc Bericht.—Munster, 1832. ■* These figures are copied, with the author’s permis- sion, from Dr. Little's “Treatise on Club-foot, and Analogous Distortions.” Dr. Little was himself the subject of a congenital club-foot, for the cure of which, Dr. Stromeyer divided the tendo-achillis in 1836. See his case related by himself in his Thesis “ Symbol® ad talipedem varum cognosccndum,” and by Stromeyer, “ Beitriigc zur operativen Orthopadik.” p. 83.