155 AMPUTATION. the covering after amputation is to be derived, and when sawn through, present a large ex- tent of sharp edge to the skin, which is almost their only covering. Whilst, on the other hand, their articular ends present a round surface for this covering. Amputation at the joints of the phalanges is, therefore, a better operation than that performed in the continuity of these bones ; but its superiority is not so decided as to compensate for the loss of the least por- tion of the finger that may be useful; con- sequently, it should be performed in prefer- ence when it inflicts less curtailment than the other, unless the portion be too short to be of any use (the limit in point of utility may be stated at one-half for the last, and one- third for the first and second phalanges), and it should, of course, be preferred when the curtailment by either operation would be about the same. Some have advised, rather to remove the whole finger than to leave the first, or any part of the first phalanx ; because, say they, this phalanx having no flexor tendon inserted into, or bound down to it, would yield to the extensor, and stand out so as to be incon- venient. But this opinion appears to be erroneous, inasmuch as the end of the ten- don becomes blended in the cicatrix or fixed to the bone, so as to move the latter. There is, therefore, no reason to remove a portion of the finger, because the tendon is not at- tached to it, still less to adopt the suggestion which Lisfranc makes to incise or lay bare the tendon, and which might cause trouble- some inflammation. It is, besides, an over- sight to say, that the tendon has no attach- ment to the bone, it being in reality so at- tached by a white fibrous bridle to this first phalanx. Although a surgeon may amputate portions of a finger with tolerable facility, unaided, it will be better to have the finger presented to him extended by an assistant, who will sup- port the hand, and keep the other fingers bent in the palm. There is some difference as to the celerity with which amputation of the fingers may be performed by these two methods. When the phalanx is removed by disarticulation, it is done almost in the twinkling of an eye ; but when the bone is to be sawed, it is more tedious. But w'hether in the contiguity, or in the continuity, the operation may be per- formed, perhaps, with equal advantage, cither by the circular or the flap method. Circular method.—The skin, with its cellular tissue, is to be divided round the finger with a narrow scalpel, or bistouri, and then drawn back or dissected off, to the extent of about half the small diameter of the phalanx ; a se- cond incision is to divide the fibrous tissues, and make a track for the saw, at the place to which the edge of the skin has been retracted, and there must the bone be saw'n through. The surgeon will find it advantageous to use what the joiners call a dove-tail saw, and while sawing the bone to place the finger on a firm cushion. When the surgeon operates in the contiguity, he is to open and cut through the joint, after the divided skin has been drawrn back to it, in the manner described in the flap amputation. The circular method is much employed in England, and is, for the forma- tion of a good digital stump, as good as any other. Flap method.—The flap method for the removal of the fingers includes several dif- ferent modes. It may be performed with a single palmar or a single dorsal flap, according to Lisfranc’s plan ; or by a right and left flap, cut from the sides of the finger, according to Maingault’s plan, which is justly censured by Blandin ; or by a dorsal and palmar flap, each of equal length ; or, in fine, by a dorsal and palmar flap, the latter being made longer than the former. With a single palmar flap.—In Lisfranc’s mode of performing this operation, the hand in pronation, the phalanx to be removed is bent, the edge of the knife is made to enter at the side of the finger about a line or two in front of the transverse fold of skin that marks the situation of the joints. The edge of the straight bistouri being inclined, as if he aimed at the centre of the condyle behind it, the joint is opened at the first stroke ; the handle of the bistouri being now brought down to the horizontal, the edge comes in contact with the skin at the back of the joint, which, with the extensor tendon, it divides, laying open the joint itself. The lateral liga- ments being stretched are easily divided by inclining the edge, first to one side, and then to the other. The operation is terminated by forming a semicircular flap of sufficient length from the soft parts of the disarticulated bone, by directing the edge of the bistouri nearly parallel to the bone, from behind for- wards. Fig. 9. Fig. 9, Lisfranc's method of amputating a finger: the flap is taken from the palmar surface of the phalanx to he removed. The surgeon is operating on the left hand, and holds the knife in his left hand. With practice upon the dead subject, these several steps may be executed with such rapidity as to form but one continuous