809 CONDYLOMA. ted in number, and attached by any thing like a narrow base, the most expeditious way to get rid of them is by excision. If more nume- rous and less pedunculated, complete exicion is hardly to be recommended, and the partial use of the knife or scissors, with the assistance of escharotics to the remainder of the growth, will usually be found preferable. When the surface invaded by condylomata is consider- able, and they are not collected into a decided tumour, even limited excision becomes more questionable ; unless a large proportion of the growth can be removed at once by the assist- ance of the knife, some applications calculated to destroy it are requisite. The arsenical lotion is very powerful and rather dangerous. The lotion of the bichloride of mercury, from half a grain to two or three grains to the ounce, is extremely valuable. The ancient combination of the powdered savine and aerugo acris will sometimes prove as good as any. The liquor plumbi undiluted, or not much diluted, is another application that answers in some cases. It is unnecessary to augment the list of substances of this descrip- tion. The experience or the fancy of every surgeon can add to it ; and each may have his favourite wash or ointment. So far as I have seen, the bichloride lotion is the most effi- cient, and next to that the lotion of the acetate of lead may, perhaps, be fairly placed. I should observe, that, in one or two cases, I have seen most benefit from the use of an ointment, consisting of two grains of the bi- chloride of mercury to an ounce of spermaceti cerate ; while, in other instances, equal parts of the zinc and lead ointments have given most relief. Whatever be the application selected by the surgeon, the parts should be well washed with warm water, or even with soap, night and morning, and the ointment or lotion should be constantly applied on lint. When the surface secretes, as it sometimes does, profusely, the lint must be frequently changed. Every care should be taken to prevent friction or even contact of two surfaces, and the tem- perature should be kept down by rest, and by such light clothing as may seem desirable. It only remains for me to remark, in refer- ence to this form of condyloma, that, while it is most rife in free livers, arid in persons of a gross habit, or coarse skin, and bad secretions, it is also in them most difficult to be removed. Yet, with care and attention, this is always practicable. II. NON-ULCERATED VENEREAL CONDYLOMA. This variety, and the third, are sufficiently distinct from the preceding. No force is re- quired to dislocate them from that, however artificial may be their separation from each other. The mere circumstance of ulceration existing on the surface, constitutes the princi- pal difference between them, and it is only for convenience, and for accuracy of specifica- tion that they are divided. The second form of condyloma, is a flat, superficial, nearly circular deposit in the cutis. It is soft and smooth upon the surface, is evidently vascular, generally of a pinkish, sometimes of a blueish tint, according to ifs locality and the vigour of the circulation ; it varies in thickness, from that of a sixpenny to nearly that of a penny piece ; in circumfer- ence, it seldom exceeds the former, and is often little larger than a split pea. The situations in which it is observed, are such as are most favourable to the production and maintenance of heat and moisture, and to the lodgment of discharge from the urethra or vagina. On this account, it is more fre- quent in women than in men, as are all the varieties of condyloma. In females, we find that the lower half of the labia, especially their internal surface, the perineum, the nates where they meet each other, and are con- tiguous to the anus, and the thighs where they join the perineum, are the spots where condylomata luxuriate. In the male, the lower surface of the penis, where it hangs against the scrotum, and the sides of the latter opposed to the thighs, are the usual situations for their growth. In an out-patient of the hospital, so numerous were these pro- ductions on the scrotum, that it wore a ridi- culous resemblance to those antique shields which are studded all over with bosses. In either sex, this form of condyloma is attended with discharge from the urethra or vagina. It is probable, that such discharge is a necessary antecedent to it. The circum- stances, the habits, and the conformation of the female render her more liable to profuse secretion from the genital organs, than the male ; and in the lower class of women that infest the streets, this form of condyloma is extremely frequent. The accounts they give of their complaints can rarely be depended on, yet they usually admit that discharge preceded the appearance of the condyloma. But as the latter would seem to occur more readily in some individuals than in others, it may be presumed that, in them, the secretions are peculiarly acrid. The obvious characters of the discharge which waits on condyloma, are those of chronic gonorrhoea. It is commonly yellowish, pro- fuse, and thin. On examining women with the speculum, I have seen in addition to this discharge in the vagina, a thicker and more gelatinous semifluid mass proceeding from the os uteri. This mass makes its appearance ex- ternally, and is not unfrequently described by patients as a “ lump of flesh.” It is not pecu- liar to condyloma, but is observed in gonor- rhoea ; and indeed may occur in an excited state, however generated, of the uterus. In irritable females, it often succeeds the men- strual flux. Of course, there is no reason why gonor- rhoea, in its acuter forms, should not co-exist with condyloma. If it does, it must be deemed an accidental complication, and has been con- tracted during the presence of the latter.