EAR, AND HEARING, DISEASES OF. oo /VV racters of the fibro-mucous lining of the tym- panum. Within the osseous portion of the tube, it no longer presents any of the mucous glands which are found in the mucous mem- brane of the prominent edges of the guttural orifice, and in that lining the cartilaginous and membranous portion. The epithelium of that part of the lining membrane which corresponds to the membranous portion of the tube pre- sents vibratile cilia, but the part which invests the cartilaginous portion has none. Nerves of the tympanum, $c.—The tympa- num receives nerves from the fifth, from the facial, from the hypoglossal and from the sym- pathetic. To commence the description with the fa- cial or portio dura of the seventh pair.—This arises from the brain by two roots, which unite together in the meatus auditorius inter- nus, but before uniting, the smaller root sends off a delicate filament which forms a commu- nication with the auditory nerve. After this the facial nerve enters the aqueduct of Fal- lopius. Superficial petrosal nerve.—This is the su- perior branch of the Vidian. Leaving the infe- rior branch or deep petrosal at the posterior orifice of the Vidian canal, it proceeds upwards through the cartilaginous substance in the fo- ramen lacerum medium, and then runs back- wards in the groove on the anterior surface of the petrous bone leading to the hiatus of Fal- lopius. Having entered the latter, it joins the gangliform swelling of the facial nerve. From this gangliform swelling there are two branches. The first arises by one or two roots, and runs backwards into the internal auditory passage to join the upper portion of the auditory nerve, where the first filament joined, and forms with it a small reddish gray elevation. The other branch is the chorda tympani, which accompanies the facial nerve along the aqueduct of Fallopius till within a little of the exit of the latter by the stylomastoid hole. The chorda tympani then leaves the facial nerve at an acute angle, and proceeds up- wards in a proper canal in the bone, enters the cavity of the tympanum by an opening just within the posterior part of the groove for the insertion of the membrana tympani. From this opening it proceeds forwards be- tween the long process of the incus and the handle of the malleus, to the fissure of Glasser, through a canal beside which it makes its exit from the cavity of the tympanum. It then descends by the inner side of the ascend- ing ramus of the lower jaw, and joins at an acute angle the lingual nerve. In its passage across the cavity of the tympanum, the chorda tympani is described as anastomosing by one or several filaments with the nerve which the fifth pair is said to send to the membrana tympani. To return to the facial nerve, the stapedius muscle receives a branch from it, which gets into the cavity of the pyramid, where the body of the muscle is lodged, by an aperture on the thin bony partition which separates that cavity from the aqueduct of Fallopius. The facial nerve at last issues from the cranium by the stylo-mastoid foramen. The nervous anastomoses of Jacobson.—This is an anastomoses between the Vidian nerve, glosso-pharyngeal, and sympathetic. It lies on the inner wall of the tympanum, and gives branches to the two fenestrse. The ganglion of Arnold.— This is a small ganglion, situated close to the inner surface of the inferior maxillary nerve a little below its exit from the foramen ovale. It sends branches to the inferior maxillary nerve, the facial nerve, and the anastomoses of Jacobson; through the medium of the latter of which it is connected with the superior maxillary and glossopharyngeal nerves. The ganglion of Arnold gives off a small and inconstant branch, which loses itself in the cellular tissue around the tensor tympani muscle, into the substance of which it also sends some filaments ; btU the principal nerve of the tensor tympani is derived from the pterygoid nerve of the third branch of the fifth'. Arteries of the tympanum, &c.—A remarka- ble branch of the posterior auricular artery is the stylomastoid. This enters the stylomastoid hole and runs along the aqueduct of Fallopius, and ends by anastomosing with a branch of the middle meningeal, called the Vidian ar- tery, which enters by the hiatus of Fallopius. In its course, the stylomastoid artery trans- mits twigs to the mastoid cells, the external auditory passage, the membrana tympani (al- ready described), the stapedius muscle, and the external semicircular canal. The temporal artery gives off a branch which enters the tympanum by the fissure of Glasser, and ramifies in the mucous membrane of the outer wall of that cavity. The internal maxillary artery, besides the branches to the auditory passage and mem- brana tympani, already described, sometimes gives small branches to the Eustachian tube. The middle meningeal artery in the first part of its course gives branches to the Eustachian tube. In the cranium it sends off a branch, arteria Vidiana, which has been already de- scribed as anastomosing in the Fallopian canal, with the stylo-mastoid. It also sends branches to the tympanum, which ramify in the mucous membrane of that cavity, and on the muscles of the small bones. The accessory middle meningeal artery, when present, gives branches to the Eustachian tube. The inferior pharyngeal artery also gives branches to the Eustachian tube, to the pyramid and cavity of the tympanum. The Eustachian tube also receives twigs from the inferior palatine branch of the facial artery. The internal carotid, before entering the cranium, gives a small twig to the Eustachian tube and sends another through a small pas- 1 See farther on this subject the excellent “ Disser- tatio cle Anastomosi Jacobsonii ct fianglio Atnoldi,” by Dr. H. C. B. Bendz. Ilaunite, 1833.