amenorrhcea. m of the uterine capillaries. The healthy and morbid conditions of the various functions ol the body, but more particularly of the chylo- poetic viscera, require careful observation, as the non-performance of the healthy action of the uterus after development may, for the most part, be traced to disturbance in the general health. It is true that constitutional derangement is sometimes the consequence ot suppressed catamenia ; and the cause of reten- tion may be found in the structural alteration of some part of the uterine system, as an im- perfect formation or occlusion of the os uteri, cohesion of the labia, or vagina, or imperforate hymen. The menstrual fluid may have been duly secreted, and its escape prevented by one of the organic causes mentioned, but par- ticularly the latter. In such a case, puberty will have become developed, but the patient is found with enlargement of the abdomen, besides various pelvic and abdominal symptoms, which taken altogether, frequently excite an un- just suspicion of pregnancy. The structural peculiarity in the hymen, can only be detected by examination, when a small crucial opening by means of a scalpel or lancet will allow the secreted fluid to escape, and afford an allevia- tion to the sufferings of the patient. In in- terrupted functions of the utero-vaginal sys- tem which do not yield to judicious treatment, a careful examination should be made by the touch. It is generally unfortunate for the female when from a too fastidious delicacy, whether on the part of the practitioner or pa- tient, this inquiry is neglected. Again dis- ease may exist in some distant organ or tissue, as, for instance, in the lungs, liver, &c., when the functions of the uterus will become inter- rupted, and can only be restored by the origi- nal cause being removed. The female having gone beyond the period of life when the first appearance of the cata- menia might have been anticipated, it a ple- thoric condition of the system obtains, it may be easily recognised. Headach, vertigo, or a sense of weight in the head, with occasional throbbing, flushing of the face, thirst, and a quick accelerated pulse, are the most promi- nent characteristics of a loaded circulation. This condition of the system may be pro- tracted, but it is usually of short duration, and the general health sinks into the second state before alluded to, a state eventually productive of important functional and structural derange- ment. In this case the hue of health will have vanished from the cheek, pallor prevails, gene- rally with a darkness about the eyes, and par- tial tumidity of the face ; and in what may be called the second stage, together with these appearances, a tinge ol the icterode 01 yel- lowish green colour is so obvious in the coun- tenance, that the term chlorosis or green sick- ness has been given to the disease. The tongue, at first white and loaded, becomes red, and not unfrequently, its papillae enlarged. The appetite is singularly affected ; and it is common to find in the patient an unconquerable desire to eat lime, chalk, earth, sand, and other 12 substances equally indigestible and improper ; in short, the digestion becomes imperfect, and a deteriorated condition of the blood with a loss of vital energy are the results. The pa- tient is now almost incapable of exertion, she is subject to dyspnoea, with a short irritable cough, which, together with frequent acces- sions of pain in the chest, or sides, create in the minds of her parents or friends considera- ble apprehensions for her safety. In promoting a healthy action of the uterine system, whether the case be one of retention or suppression, the condition of the circula- tion demands early attention ; and where there is an excess of action in the pulse, with headach, a furred tongue, hot skin, and other symptoms of undue excitement, the means required should be those usually included in the term antiphlogistic. It is comparatively easy to accomplish the first object in view, that of lowering the system—would it could be said to a standard of health. General bleeding, not objectionable as a powerful remedy in some cases, should be employed with caution ; but the local abstraction of blood, by means of leeches to the groins, or by cupping glasses applied over the sacrum, may be had recourse to, oftentimes with great advantage. These, together with active purgation, and a vegeta- ble diet, may be the means of producing the wished for discharge. Fortunately for the sex, pathological in- quiry, with its results, has superseded bigotry and false principles ; and a revolution may be said to have taken place in the treatment of amenorrhcea. To the experienced physician, a restoration of the patient’s general health is his primary object; this accomplished, there is oftentimes little more to be done. These re- marks are applicable to both retention and sup- pression. The latter may be classed under two heads, the acute and chronic. From exposure to cold, some violent mental or bodily exertion, or from some trivial accident a few days or hours before the menstrual period, the dis- charge does not appear as usual, or is suddenly arrested even after the period has commenced ; this may be called the acute obstruction, and will be attended by a quick pulse, pain in the region of the uterus, a sense of bearing down, thirst, headach, and other symptoms of pyrexia, and occasionally with some degree of hysteria. It may be requisite, under such circumstances as are' here described, to have recourse to the lancet; but in the abstraction of blood, we should be governed by the system of the patient, and the urgency of the symptoms. Local bleeding, under ordinary circumstances, wall be preferable, as already suggested. Pur- gatives of an active kind should be given, and the hip-bath may be used with advantage. Should there be much pain in the region ot the uterus, together with spasmodic or hys- terical symptoms, camphor, combined with hyoscyamus or opium, will be useful. These measures, however judiciously employed, will not, always prove successful in securing a re- turn of the discharge.