BANDAGE. 461 that represented Fig. 138. suggested for the purpose by Mr. Dent of Dublin. It is made by dividing an inch-wide band into three por- tions, two of them a couple of yards long, the third about four inches ; the latter is connected to the former by two sets of very narrow rib- band, or silk threads, (a a) intersecting each other in such a manner as to give the inter- mediate portion the form of a noose (b) ; when applied, (Fig. 139,) the noose is slipped over Fig. 139. the head, compresses placed upon the cheeks, and the threads drawn close upon the suture, allowing the ends of the pins to escape between them; the long bands, rolled up into two heads, are then carried back to the nape of the neck, where they cross, and ter- minate by encircling the head. A night-cap and four-tailed bandage to the chin (Fig. 149) will render the whole secure. A bandage re- sembling this in some points is figured in Mr. Thillaye’s work : it is, however, less easily ap- plied, and does not fulfil the object (viz. draw- ing forward the cheeks) more successfully. A bandage is sometimes required, in aid of other means, for uniting transverse wounds of the throat. Fig. 140 is employed with this view Fig. 140. I ('flechmeur de la tete, Fr.) The head being covered with a night-cap, a couple of bands, about four feet in length (a a), are thrown over it, so as to cross each other upon the crown, and hang down in front of the chest and behind the neck ; a circular bandage is passed round the head, and the posterior ends of each band interwoven with its horizontal turns, to fix them securely at the occiput; the anterior extremities (b b) of the bands are then drawn downwards, till the chin is brought to the position most favourable for keeping the divided parts in contact, and encompassed by the turns of a double-headed roller round the chest. Fig. 141 is the same bandage as con- Fig. 141. structed by M. Mayor, with the triangle and cravate. By this bandage the separated por- tions of the trachea, in deep wounds of the throat, may be maintained in apposition, when it is very difficult to succeed by other means. With the two pendant extremities reversed, and secured to the body bandage behind, in- stead of in front, it is employed under the name of divisif du cou, to prevent the con- traction which follows cicatrization of burns of the neck and throat. In deep transverse wounds of the limbs, po- sition will do much to counteract the retrac- tion of divided muscles, and when aided by the gentle compression of a spiral or tailed ban- dage upon the ends of the adhesive straps, applied to bring the edges together, will ge- nerally be found sufficient. In certain divisions of structure, in which some force is required to overcome the action of the muscles, uniting bandages are of great service. Rupture of the tendo achillis, of the ligamentous attachment of the extensor muscles to the patella, &c., and fracture of the patella and olecranon, are of this description, (see articles on those subjects). Fig. 142. is the bandage employed in rupture of the tendo achillis. The separated portions of the tendon being brought together by complete extension of the foot, and flexion of the knee, a belt of leather or webbing (a) is buckled or laced, round the upper part of the calf; a soft compress about three inches long, is then placed on either side of the tendon, and con- fined by the turns of a spiral roller, lightly applied from the foot to the knee ; a sock or slipper (6), having a strap (c) attached to the heel, is next put on the foot, and the strap