216 FISTULA, INTESTINAL. lumborum muscle. lie thus hoped to reach the colon, between the layers of its short and imperfect mesentery. The advantages of the lumbar over the iliac operation are stated to be, the avoidance of opening the peritoneum, the more commodious position of the artificial aperture, and its less liability to be the seat of prolapse. In opposition to the proposal of Callisen, it was maintained, that the superior convenience of the anus in the lumbar region was not evi- dent, and that the operation itself was, in most instances, impracticable, as the colon in the lumbar region was generally attached by a mesentery of some extent. It was, moreover, urged that Callisen himself found great diffi- culty in executing the operation on the dead body, and that in many instances he failed, the peritoneum having been unavoidably opened. Most surgeons, amongst whom was Dupuy- tren', agreed in condemning Callisen’s propo- sal, and gave the preference to the iliac ope- ration of Littre or Pillore, until within the last few years, when the operation of Callisen has been revived and modified by M. Amussat. Fig. This accomplished surgeon has shown, that the failure of the operation on the dead sub- ject was owing to the intestine being empty, and that, in such cases as required the forma- tion of artificial anus, the colon is greatly dis- tended ; in which condition, the layers of peritoneum, forming its imperfect mesentery, are so far separated as to allow of the intes- tine being readily reached without opening the peritoneum. He has further introduced an important modification of the operation of Callisen, by adopting a transverse instead of a vertical incision of the integuments and muscles. The operation has been three times success- fully performed by M. Amussat; twice on the left, and once on the right side. We subjoin the following abridged report of these cases, which will sufficiently explain the operative proceedings requisite for establishing an ar- tificial anus in the right or in the left lumbar region. A woman *, aged forty-eight, who had long been subject to a torpid state of bowels, in the beginning of May, 1839, became more 262. M. Amussat's operation for establishing a lift lumbar artificial amis, from Bourgcry. The patient is supported on the, elbows and knees ; the dorso lumbar region directed upwards, and the head to the left of the page. The integuments and muscles are divided, and the distended colon, uncovered by peritoneum, is exposed. obstinately constipated than usual. After the ineffectual employment of active remedies for twenty-six days, a consultation was held by MM. Barras, Amussat, Fouquier, Breschct, Recamier, and Puyos. On examination of ' Diet, de Med. et Cliir. Pr, t. iii. p. 128. the rectum, a hard, round, and almost im- movable tumour was felt at a considerable height in the intestine, about double the size 1 Bulletin Gen. de Therapeutique, 15th and 30th October, 1839; and British and Foreign Medical ltcvicw, January, 1840.