127 ENCEPHALOCELE. the head, pediculated, soft, and pulsating'; the child being otherwise well formed. Ligature was applied to the pedicle, July 4, 1781, and no convulsions followed ; the child took the breast, and slept tranquilly. The ligature was tightened daily ; and by the 10th, the integu- ments were strongly distended, the tumour had become globular, and ulceration of the skin had commenced. On the 13th, the ulceration had extended ; but the child conti- nued well until the 15th, when it appeared very weak, and in the evening was, for the first time, seized with convulsions, and died in a few hoars. On examination after death, the tumour appeared to be formed of two pouches, one between the dura mater and integuments, containing bloody serum and blood ; the other, a prolongation of dura mater, containing por- tions of brain which weighed about an ounce and three quarters. The opening was at the anterior fontanelle, about an inch and a half in diameter. Part of both hemispheres of the cerebrum protruded. There was no trace of the falx. The surface of the brain appeared to be in a gangrenous state. The pericranium was separated from the bone around the edges of the fontanelle, and the bone was blackish in colour. There was no accumulation of serum either in the arachnoid or ventricular cavities. The cerebellum and medulla oblongata were perfectly healthy. The only other case of ligature is recorded byM.Gistren, of Stockholm, in a Swedish jour- nal *. The tumour in this case was eighteen inches in circumference at the largest part. Ligature was applied, and the child died in a few days. We have thus three cases illus- trating the effects of the treatment by liga- ture, and three deaths. This method is therefore deservedly discarded; and we pro- ceed to examine, 2. Treatment by Incision and Excision. In the dissertation of Corvin, before quoted, it is stated, that a case was observed in July, 1741, in which a large pediculated tumour occupied the situation of the occipital protu- berance. It fluctuated, and fluid evidently passed into the cranium on pressure. A cru- cial incision was made ; and, after the escape of a large quantity of fluid, two cysts appeared, shining and tendinous. These were opened ; fluid escaped ; and a floating substance, which appeared to be the choroid plexus, was seen. There was not much suffering, but the child died on the next day. On dissection, the superior part of the occipital bone was found wanting ; and, in place of the occipital protu- berance, there was an abnormal opening of an oval form, the borders of which, smooth, thin, and rounded, formed two semicircles, and the inferior extremities of the latter were united by a solid fibrous tissue, four or five lines in length, which separated the abnormal opening from the foramen magnum. The tentorium had protruded, forming the two 1 Svenska Lakaie-sallskapets; Haudlingar, 1814, vol. ii. no. 1. pouches. The third and lateral ventricles formed a large common cavity, which was directed backwards, and terminated against the opening. The ventricles contained the red body which was seen in the operation, and which was a continuation of the choroid plexus. A similar case is recorded by Thiebault1. There were two tumours on the posterior part of the head, which, the author was con- vinced, after careful examination, had no com- munication with the cranium. He therefore made an incision, when he perceived that a considerable portion of brain had passed through a round hole an inch and a half in diameter, in the middle and right lateral part of the occipital bone. It was covered by dura mater. He considered that he had gone too far to stop, and accordingly amputated the protruding portion of brain ! The child died the next day. In 1813, M. Lallement2, having mistaken an occipital encephalocele for an encysted tumour, determined to extirpate it ; when, after having made his first incision, he was arrested by the brilliant appearance of the dura mater, and discovered that the tumour passed through an opening in the occipital bone. The young female died some days afterwards, when the tumour was found to consist of an extension from the two hemi- spheres of the cerebellum. Some time after this, M. Baffos committed the same error: the patient died ; and, on dissection, the same condition of parts was found as in the case of M. Lallement. Mr. Earle3 alludes to a case of encephalo- cele which a medical man mistook for an en- cysted tumour and suddenly removed, when death instantly ensued ; and a case of incision, followed by death, is recorded by Buttners *. Held5 relates the case of a woman, nineteen years of age, who had a tumour the size of a rennet-apple to the left of the frontal suture. It yielded a little on pressure, and appeared to contain a fluid. He took it for meliceris, and determined to remove it ; but, after in- cising the skin, he recognized an opening in the cranium below the fontanelle, and found that the tumour passed through this opening. It was covered by a membrane, which ap- peared to contain liquid. He incised this membrane, when two ounces of a yellowish fluid escaped, and the tumour collapsed ; and he perceived pulsation and a portion of brain. Dry dressing was immediately applied, and gentle pressure employed, until the brain was reduced. The opening afterwards completely closed. The woman perfectly recovered, and afterwards had several children. ' Journal de Chirurgie de Desault, tom. ii. p. 327. 1722. 2 Boyer, Traite des Mai. Chir. tom. v. p. 201. 2 Medico-Chirurgical Transactions, vol. vii. * Journal del' Chirurg. Von Grcefe und Walther, vol. xix. p. 159. 1833. 5 Diss. Inaug. de Hernia Cerebri in Adulta feli- citer sanata. Giessen, 1777.