ENCEPHALOCELE. 121 treat the congenital or spontaneous disease, occasionally employing the latter term,—as we find a case recorded by Dr. Bennet, in which it did not appear until a month after birth, and another by Breschet, not until three months ; in both cases independent of injury, or disease of the bone. We have no evidence that this form of hernia was recognized by the ancients; for the first cases on record, which have been cited as examples of encephalocele, are by Hilda- nus1 *, Forestus9, Job Van Meckren3, Ruysch4 5, Jacob3, and Hebenstreitius6; and even these, on close examination, appear to have been cases of monstrosity, hydrocephalus, or serous cysts, with the exception of the case of Forestus, to which we shall have to refer hereafter. Reise- lius 7, in 1683, published a case of hydrence- phalocele, which is the first case to which the operation of puncture was applied ; and ano- ther case 8, combined with lumbar spina bifida, in which, after death, the foramen magnum of the occipital bone was unusually open. Cor- vin, in 1749, published a dissertation on hernia I cerebri, in the second volume of Haller’s Dis- putationes Chirurgicae, and gives one case with drawings, in which a portion of the cerebellum and choroid plexus and the two posterior lobes of the cerebrum passed through an opening in the occipital bone. He also brings forward two other cases ; but it may be doubted whether these were anything more than cephalhaematomata, as they soon disap- peared under the employment of slight pres- sure. Since the treatise of Corvin, encepha- locele has been treated by M. Ferrand9, and subsequently by most systematic writers, but in a very cursory manner : the subject is dis- missed with a few lines in most of our works on the diseases of children, and is not even alluded to in the recent treatise of Drs. Maun- sell and Evanson. In Dr. Marshall Hall’s late publication on the Diseases of the Ner- vous System, it is also altogether omitted, although there is a chapter on the congenital diseases of the nervous centres in children, under which head spina bifida is treated. We shall consider the subject of encephalo- cele in relation with the causes of the disease ; its seat and pathology; its symptoms, progress, and complications ; the diagnosis and progno- sis ; and, lastly, the treatment. Causes.—In order to admit of the rapid growth and enlargement of the brain during the first year after birth, without danger of compression—to facilitate the passage of the head during parturition—to diminish the dan- 1 Opera Obscrvationum, cent. vi. obs. xvii. 1646. s Obs. Chir. tom. iv. lib. iii. obs. vii. 1634. 3 Obs. Med. Chir. cap. vii. p. 51. 1682. 4 Obs. Anat. Chir. obs. Iii. p. 69. 1691. 5 Bartholinus, Actis Haffn. vol. ii. obs. xxxiii. p. 80. 1673. 6 Diss. de Capit. Laborioso Partu nascent, lib. i. p. 9. 1779. 3 Ephemeridcs des Curicux de la Nature, Dee. 11. an. ii. obs. cxv. p. 272. 6 Ibid, obs. elviii. p. 363. o Mem. de l’Acad. Roy. de Chir. tom. v. ger of effusion, which is so apt to occur in young children, and the concussion from the falls they so frequently experience—and to prevent injury to the head during labour1, the ossification of the cranial bones commences in their central points, from which the bony radii shoot across towards the situations of the future sutures. Thus the circumference of the bones remains unossified for some time after the process has considerably advanced in the centre ; and their edges, being con- nected to each other by a fibrous, and subse- quently by a fibro-cartilaginous tissue, the walls of the cranium are highly elastic and yielding, readily admit of distension from the increasing brain, or of compression during labour, the bulk being diminished by overlap- ping of the edges of the oones. But still it is necessary that a constant balance should be kept up betw een the resistance of the walls of the cranium and the tendency of the brain to increase in size ; for, if this be lost, encephalo- cele is the result. If the sutures or fonta- nelles are larger or less firm than usual, from slow or defective ossification—if those which are naturally early consolidated continue fibrous longer than usual, or are separated by cerebral effusion—if there be a deficiency in some part of one of the bones of the head, or a fissure have occurred in labour, the walls of the cranium are incapable of resisting the pressure exercised upon them by the brain ; or, these being normal, if the brain be unduly developed, wholly or in part, protrusion al- most necessarily follows,—the weaker parts yieldingto the unceasing pressure. On look- ing for the cause of this loss of balance, it will in some cases be found to depend on mechanical influences, to which the foetus is exposed during its intra-uterine life ; while in others we can only account for it by some agency beyond the reach of our researches, producing aberrations from the normal pro- gress of growth and nutrition. The mechani- cal causes are, some compression experienced by the brain and head during intra-uterine life, before ossification has proceeded to any extent, either from the uterus itself, a growth from it, or some external agent. We can easily conceive how spasmodic uterine con- tractions would act in compressing the head, if the liquor amnii were deficient, and this may be occasionally the initial cause ; but rarely, for the liquor amnii is in far greater proportion, with regard to the bulk of the foetus, in the early months, than afterwards, when the structures are less delicate and require less protection. That a morbid growth from the uterus may produce changes, not only in one, but in several children, exposed to the same cause, is proved by a case refer- red to by Frank, of a woman who bore four children, each of whom had a deep depression on the forehead, the bone beneath which was 1 It is shown by Hirt, from numerous examples, that when ossification has proceeded too quickly, fissures of the cranium may be caused during labour by uterine contractions.