FRACTURE. 359 at least, approach to a natural relation with the upper. The consideration of these and other circumstances leads us to infer that neither the straight, nor the flexed position in treatment is equally suited to all kinds of cases, although, with attention, either may be tolerably avail- able for the generality of them. It will, I think, appear in the sequel that the three methods above-mentioned, with various modifications, are all deserving of es- timation. The position of Hippocrates is often efficient; that, of Pott may be occasionally necessary ; and the more modern double- inclined plane is, at least, a frequent and ne- cessary resource. If there be, as doubtless there are, cases in which the first and last of these plans are equally available, the practi- tioner will speedily appreciate the great com- fort of a change of apparatus during the ne- cessarily protracted treatment Very simple trials may at times suffice to determine on the preferable plan in a given case. At other times it will be far otherwise ; and let me observe, that should the reader be tempted to turn away from what may seem only the discussion of a doubtful matter, he should remember that such a consideration as the present, is a paramount object of importance, since it affects especially the treatment of the difficult cases. When the patient is placed in bed, and the shortening or deformity is found to be inconsiderable, the duty of a moderately-prudent surgeon is easy, and his reputation generally safe, whatever method he may choose. Yet the case may prove widely different; and I con- ceive that he whose prejudices are very strong in favour of any one system (as, for instance, that of the straight position) will be occa- sionally in danger of doing serious mischief. It is remarkable that in latter times we have seen an eminent practical surgeon of France maintaining the principle of Pott, while a distinguished literary English surgeon becomes a convert to the views of Desault. Dupuytren advocated the double-inclined plane ; Mr. S Cooper prefers the straight position, but confesses that he is sometimes obliged to have recourse to flexion in order to remedy the rising of the superior fragment. I would suppose, that long before the time of Pott, intelligent men must have met with the upper third of a broken femur pointing forwards, and have been too much concerned to set the limb straight, not to have discovered that all means, which did not advance the knee, were inefficient to produce satisfactory coaptation. When we consider the leg attentively with reference to its myology, we find that the knee-joint has but feeble or indirect flexor 1 It is especially with reference to long confine- ments with fractures of the leg, that every judiciously practicable change should be adopted. Those only know rightly who have experienced the effect, how great a satisfaction may be thus afforded; even a change of room, or only of the position of the patient’s bed, is a material source of happiness. muscles ; for it is not until the straight po- sition of the knee yields to one of flexion, that the flexor muscles (except the semi-membra- nosus) can be said to be materially available. The long femoral muscles, whose office is (after stiffening the knee which has been extended in progression) chiefly to carry or press back the limb, and then barely to lift the leg, are little to be contrasted with the short massive and specific extensors of the knee. In considering the muscles to be relaxed for the treatment of any particular case, it is quite necessary to bear in mind the structure of each individual muscle concerned. A long muscle, formed only of fibres longitudinally arranged, has a very insignificant degree of influence, compared with a muscle of equal weight and half the length, but having a pen- niform arrangement. This subject will be again adverted to, but it will be dwelt upon more particularly in the article Luxations. This reflection seems to me to involve a pretty general principle, with respect to the treatment of all cases in which the influence of muscles is concerned. The omission of this consideration is a material oversight, and there are cases in which the want of it is fatal to right practice. It must suffice here to state, what needs no proof, that a long straight muscle must be well extended before it can act powerfully ; w'hile the penniforir arrangement of a muscle implies a power, that, without a certain degree of relaxation, is al- most invincible. Slight flexion of the knee and hip is the condition of natural repose (not so extension), and does not materially affect the vasti and crureus ; and omitting the effects of perma- nent or forcible extension, which are occa- sionally doubtful, negative, or worse, we see that the bent position is most favourable to quiescence. For this reason, and because the posterior muscles are so long as to be little af- fected by any position of the knee, though all flexion of the hip-joint is rather calculated to stretch them, we must conclude that bending the knee on the double-inclined 'plane does not materially decrease the tension of the poste- rior muscles. It is not easy to obtain a right estimation of the effects of forcible extension. The powrer of the muscles excited by opposition, the in- security of the points called “ fixed,” the in- supportable pain caused by all considerable steady pressure on the skin, are facts which are to be set against the less palpable and uncertain results of an examination of deep- seated parts, by w'hich any surgeon may be misled in supposing that he has produced perfect re-adjustment. If the diagnosis of the seat and direction of the fracture were pre- cise, and the state of parts after different prac- tices were impartially and accurately stated, we should have better grounds for judgment ; but at present, both the discrepancies which occur in the various views on the subject, and the w'ant of experience, compel us to rely much upon reason in selecting a method from the