BISTOURY. 469 ness two lines, getting somewhat thinner and narrower near the other end. In general the surface is quite smooth, though some prefer it 1 rough, so that it may be more firmly held in the fingers of the operator. In the blade we distinguish a variety of parts, viz. the point, the back, the face, or cutting edge, the sides, and the heel. The point, which ought to be in a line with the long axis of the blade, is ex- tremely sharp, so as readily to enter the soft parts ; the back, at its thickest part, where the blade is free of the handle, is in thickness about the sixteenth part of an inch, gradually getting narrower as it nears the point : the face, or cutting edge, extends from the heel to the point; both the face and back are slightly convex, so as to meet at the point; the sides, about midway between the heel and the point, are about three-eighths of an inch in depth, gradually becoming nar- rower towards the point; they are a little concave in their transverse axis, and are highly polished ; the heel is generally about half an inch in length, a little broader than the rest of the blade, and of the same thickness through- out. On one side of this part the name of the maker is commonly impressed. Most of the bistouries in use are modifica- tions of that now described; and as some of these are highly useful in surgical practice, it is necessary to notice them in this place. A knife, larger and stronger in all points, is often used in the removal of very large tumours, and in partial amputations of the foot. Some surgeons for many operations, prefer the blade a little longer, narrower, and thinner in the back ; indeed, it is altogether so slender, that the term used by the French, le bistouri aiguille, is not unaptly applied. The handle is of the ordinary shape and form. A bistoury of this sort is decidedly superior to that with the broad blade in many cases where it is ne- cessary to employ the knife. In amputations of fingers and toes at the articulations, the narrow blade passes with greater facility through the joints ; and from this circumstance ought always to be used in such operations. The extent of cutting-edge in a bistoury, gives it, in these cases, a superiority over the ordi- nary dissecting scalpel. In the operation for hare-lip, and in opening abscesses, w'hether superficial or deep-seated, no instrument answers better ; and in all instances, where there is a doubt as to the presence of matter, more particularly if it be deep-seated, or the nature of a tumour, when a puncture is deemed necessary, it is the best that can be used. This instrument is one of the most use- ful in surgery. At one time, when surgeons were not so dexterous in the use of the bistoury as they are in the present day, this was con- sidered a dangerous weapon in the hand of the operator; but almost any cutting opera- tion may be done by one familiar with its use. I have seen the eyeball extirpated with one of the kind ; and have even, with a similar instru- ment, opened the median basilic vein, lying directly over the humeral artery at the elbow'. I by no means, however, recommend its use in this latter instance as a substitute for the lancet. This narrow' blade is often made with a slight curve, and the cutting edge on the con- cave margin, and is used in many instances in preference to the straight blade ; it is gene- rally used in laying open sinuses, and in ope- rating for phymosis. A director is first passed under the part to be cut, and the knife is run along in the groove; the surgeon may then either cut from himself, or what may be better, particularly in phymosis, raise the point through the soft parts, and draw the knife towards him. In this way the prepuce, or the soft parts over a sinus, can be readily cut. If there be any dread of the point touching the soft parts, when this is not desired, it may be covered with a little bees’-wax, which will break otf when the force is applied to push it through the textures. In some bistouries the heel is much longer than usual, and the cutting edge of less extent. Such an one was recommended by Beclard for lithotomy; a modification of which is at present used by Mr. Liston for the same ope- ration. In this operation a small extent of cutting edge only is necessary, and the blunt heel prevents injury to the rectum. These are the sharp-pointed bistouries most worthy of notice ; and we shall now refer to the jorobe- pointed, which are also much used by sur- geons. The probe-pointed bistoury, in the form gene- rally used, has a handle the size of a common scalpel, and a blade about three inches in length, very narrow and slender, and slightly curved. The cutting edge is on the concavity ; it is sharp from the heel to the point, where it ter- minates abruptly at right angles to the blade. The back at the point is rounded off with a button-like head, which prevents injury as the instrument is passed under, or near tex- tures, which it is desirable to avoid. This kind of bistoury is more generally used in laying open sinuses than that with the sharp point. In the operation for fistula in ano it is the only one used, as also in the removal of portions of the tonsils, and of the uterus. In the operation for hernia it is nearly indispen- sable ; after the integuments have been incised, the different coverings of the sac, as well as the stricture, are cut with this knife. This form of bistoury was recommended particularly by Mr. Pott, and bears his name to the present day. In cutting the stricture in hernia, more particularly the crural hernia, Sir Astley Cooper used a knife of the same size and form, but having an extent of cutting edge of only eight lines in length. The advantage of this knife is considerable, as there is little risk of wounding any part of the intestine which may overlap the fingers whilst the knife is lying upon it. An improvement has been made on this form of the instrument, by applying a small rod and sliding sheath over the edge, by which its extent of cutting surface can be made to vary from eight lines to one. Were the edge of the knife, in cutting Gimbernat’s ligament, always made of the latter extent, there could