ECCHYMOSIS. 55 riuth in a child which died of fever in the Charite of Lyons. The external ear was well-formed, and the membrana tympani was natural ; the cavity of the tympanum, on the contrary, was filled with a mucous matter, and there was no trace of the ossicles. The Eu- stachian tube presented nothing irregular. There was a total absence of the essential organ of hearing ; viz. the vestibule, cochlea, semi-circular canals, and of both fenestra; of course. The auditory nerve has been found atro- phic. Nothing is known from direct observa- tion of the defective development of the membranous labyrinth, but, from what has been above related of the irregular conditions of the bony labyrinth in deaf and dumb per- sons, something on the point may be inferred. Treatment.— In the treatment of the deaf and dumb, a distinction is to be made betwixt the question of eliciting the power of hearing, and that of teaching the deaf and dumb to speak. Experience has shown that the deaf and dumb may be taught to speak, or even sometimes to carry on conversation w'ithout the hearing being in the slightest degree eli- cited or improved. It is by being taught to watch and imitate the motions of the lips, &c. of their instructor, that deaf persons have acquired in some degree the faculty of speech, and, at the same time, of distinguishing the words spoken by others. In regard to the possibility of giving hear- ing to the deaf and dumb, the cases published by Deleau show that he has, in certain in- stances, been successful, in rendering his pa- tients more sensible to the impression of sounds ; but the improvement in hearing has been, in general, neither great nor permanent. The want of success in giving hearing to the deaf and dumb is, considering the defective state of the ears in most cases unveiled by morbid anatomy, what was to have been ex- pected. Even in regard to those ears in which there may be no appreciable organic defect, experience of the nearly complete incurabi- lity of deafness in general, after it has existed long, forbids us to entertain a more favourable prognosis. Bibliography.—Duvemcy, Traite de l’organe de l’Ouie, contcnant la structure, l’usage ct les maladies de toutes les parties de l’Oreille. Paris, 1683-1718. 12mo. Leide, 1731. 8vo. Treatise on the Organ of Hearing. London, 1737. 8vo. C/eland, in the Philo- sophical Transactions for 1731. Wat turn, in the Phi- losophical Transactions for 1755, vol. xlix. parti. Lcs- chevin, Memoire sur la theorie des maladies de l’Oreille, ct snr les moyens, que la chirurgie peut employer pour leur curation. Memoires sur les sujets proposes pour les Prix de l’Academie Royale de Chirurgie, tom. iv. Dcmonceaux, Traite des Maladies des Yeux et des Oreilles. Paris, 1786. Leutin, Tentamen vitiis auditus medendi, 1793. In Beitrage zuv practischen Arznciwissonschaft, Bd. ii. Wildberg, Versuch einer anatomisch-physiologisch-pathologischcr Abhandlung uber die GehSrwerkzeuge des Menschen. Jena, 1795. Astley Cooper, on the Perforation of the Membrana Tympani, in the Philosophical Transactions for 1800 & 1801. Saunders, The Anatomy of the Human Ear, with a treatise on the diseases of that organ, 2d ed. London, 1817. 3d ed. 1829. A lard, Essai snr le Catarrhe de l’Oreille. Paris, 1807. Hard, Traite des Maladies de l’Oreille et de l’Audition. Paris, 1821. Deleau, Memoire sur la perforation de la membrane de Tympan, 1822. Krukenbery, Die Ohrent'/iindung, in his Jahrbucher der ambulatorischen Klinik zu Halle, Bd. ii. Halle, 1824. Rauch, Ueber die Krank- lieiten des Gehororgans und des Trommelfells, from Die vermischten Abhandlungen aus dem Gebiete der Ileilkunde, von einer Gesellschaft praktischer Acrzte zu St. Petersburg. Erste Sammlung. Petersburg, 1824. Casper, Die Kranklieiten der Ohren und des Gehors; in Rust’s Magazin fur die gesammte Heil- kunde, Bd. x. und Bd. xi. Van der Hoeven, Diss. Pa- tholog. de Morbis Aurium Auditusque. Lugd. Batav. 1824. Buchannan, Institutions of Acoustic Surgery. London, 1825. Beck, Die Kranklieiten des Gehor- organs. Heidelberg und Leipzig,. 1827. Saissy, Essai sur les Maladies de TOreille interne. Paris, 1827. Kramer, Die Erkenntniss und Heilung der Oliren- krankheiten. Berlin, 1836. The same translated into English, by Dr. J. R. Bennett. London, 1837. Lincke, Sammlung auserlesener Abhandlungen und Bcobachtungen aus dem Gebiete der Ohrenheilkunde. Erste, zweite und dritte Sammlungen. Leipzig, 1836. Lincke, Handbuch der tlieoretischen und praktiseken Ohrenheilkunde. Erster Band, die Anatomie, Phy- siologic und pathologische Anatomie des Gehororgans. Leipzig, 1837. Pilcher, A treatise on the Structure, Economy, and Diseases of the Ear, being the essay for which the Fothergillian gold medal was awarded by the Medical Society of London. London, 1838. Deleau, Recherches Pratiques sur les Maladies de l’Oreille, et sur le Developpement de l’ouie et de la parole chez les sourds-muets. Premiere partie: Traite du Catheterisme de la Trompe d’Eustachi, et de l’Emploi de Pair atmospherique dans les Maladies de l’Oreille moyenne. Paris, 1838. Williams, Trea- tise on the Ear; including its Anatomy, Physiology, and Pathology; for which the author obtained a gold medal in the University of Edinburgh. Lon- don, 1840. (T. Wharton Jones.') EBURNATION. Induration of bone or cartilage. See Bone. Induration. ECCHYMOSIS. (From t/cyt/w, to pour out; or from tie, out, and xvtJ°S> juice, or humour.) An infiltration of blood, whose presence is indicated by a blueish, livid, or greenish-yellow' colour of the skin. Ecchy- mosis differs from extravasation in this,—that the fluid is not effused in masses, but is dis- persed in the areoles of the cellular tissue. The ordinary causes of ecchymosis are contusions from blows, pinching, pressure, or muscular efforts. It may also arise in weak constitutions, either from physical causes, or from an alteration in the qualities of the blood itself; and in the latter case it occurs, not by rupture of the vessels, but as an exhalation through their pores. This form of ecchy- mosis is observed in persons labouring under low fever, or affected with scurvy. It is also seen not unfrequently as a consequence of surgical operations, as after general or local bleeding, the operation for cataract, lithotomy, &c. Some modern pathologists have classed as ecchymoses, those circumscribed altera- tions, the consequence of phlebitis, w'hieh occur in the substance of the liver, lungs, Stc. and which soften and suppurate so promptly. The petechial spots of typhus fever and