220 ANEURISM. external aneurism, when it can be with propriety adopted, consists in obstructing the flow of blood in the tumour by applying a ligature on the diseased vessel. Until the time of Hun- ter, the operations for the cure of aneurism were not only extremely dangerous and un- certain in their results, but were only applica- ble to the disease in a few of the arteries of the body. One mode of operating con- sisted in removing the contents of an aneur- ism, and then applying the actual cautery or graduated compresses to the extremities of the artery in the sac, and retaining them in that position by adequate pressure with a bandage, until there was no longer any risk of haemor- rhage ; the sac was afterwards filled up by the process of granulation. Another method em- ployed by the older surgeons was, to make an incision into the aneurismal sac, remove the coagula of blood contained within it, and then endeavour to tie the bleeding extremities of the vessel with a ligature. These operations, independently of the great difficulty in their execution, gave rise to numerous bad con- sequences, which, in a great majority of cases, where they were performed, led to a fatal termination. There are three different modes of operat- ing now employed for the treatment of aneur- ism, and the choice of each method depends on the particular artery, or on the particular portion of the artery which has become aneur- ismal. They?;\sZ of these modes of operating, con- sists in completely obstructing the circulation, by placing a ligature on the diseased artery, between the aneurismal tumour and the heart, or on the cardiac side of the tumour. The second consists in obstructing the circulation through an aneurism, by placing a ligature on the diseased artery between the aneurism and the capillaries, or on the distal side of the tumour; whilst the third mode of operating consists in not completely obstructing the circulation of the blood within the sac, but in diminishing its impetus, by placing a ligature on one of the branches of the diseased ar- tery on the capillary side of the tumour. The object to be effected by these different operations is either to form a complete barrier to the circulation of the blood in the tumour, or to diminish the impetus of the circulation to such a degree as shall permit the blood within the sac to coagulate. When by any of these proceedings the an- eurismal sac becomes filled with a coagulum of red blood, a fibrinous concretion is sub- sequently formed, and in proportion as the fibrine is deposited, so is the coagulated blood absorbed; and the concreted fibrine in its turn is gradually diminished in quantity, the sides of the sac approximate and coalesce, and ulti- mately the aneurismal tumour is greatly re- duced in bulk, and is converted into a firm, solid, fibrous knot. The first mode of operating, or that which consists of applying a ligature on the trunk of the aneurismal artery on the cardiac side of the tumour, was proposed and successfully adopted by John Hunter. The second mode of operating, or the ap- plication of a ligature on the distal or capillary side of the tumour, was suggested but never executed by Brasdor. The third, which consists in placing a liga- ture on one of the branches of the diseased artery on the capillary side of the tumour, was first suggested and executed by the author of this article. These three different modes of operating arc further explained in this diagram (fig. 64). Fig. 64. In the first, a ligature is placed on an arterial trunk on the cardiac side of an aneurismal tumour. In tire second, is represented a ligature placed upon an ar- terial trunk on the distal or capillary side of an aneu- rism. And the third shows the ligature placed upon only one branch of the diseased artery. We need only mention Anel’s mode of operating as matter of history, as no British surgeon ever thinks of resorting to it at the present day. But if a surgeon should be so unfortunate as to open an aneurismal sac through mistake, the steps resorted to in this method will afford him his readiest resource against an immediate fatal termination. He should at once remove the coagula, and tie the mouths of the vessel, or plug up the ca- vity in the most effectual way he can. The cases of this kind that have been thus success- fully treated, are by no means few in number. It may be here added, that in cases where the sac is large, nature will discharge the coa- gula by the formation of an eschar, the cavity, after suppurating, being filled up by granula- tions. Hunter's mode of operating.—The operation for the cure of aneurism suggested by the ingenious Hunter, in 1785, has been justly considered as one of the greatest improve- ments which the history of surgery presents. That operation, consisting as I have already stated, in placing a ligature on the arterial trunk, between the aneurismal tumour and the heart, and at a distance from the aneur- ism, put an end, in a great degree, to the severity and danger attaching to the modes of operating which until that time had been