EPISTAXIS. 140 sion, rupture, or the slightest trace of solu- tion of continuity in the membrane which had been the seat of haemorrhage ; and his views have been established by the observa- tions of the whole modern school of patho- logy.—See Haemorrhage. The state of the nasal mucous membrane is often absolutely normal even after abundant epistaxis ; but M. Rochoux1 states that it is not rare to find a sort of turgescence of this membrane in patients subject to this discharge, and Frank says that the veins are frequently in a varicose state. It has been questioned by some patho- logists, whether the blood passed from the vessels of the mucous membrane by the same channel as the mucus ; but the arguments for and against this proposition are equally hypo- thetical, anatomists not having hitherto deter- mined how the minute vessels terminate upon secreting surfaces. It appears probable, how- ever, that Meckel is right in assuming the ex- istence of some openings or porosities ; and that the proximate cause of all bleeding from mucous membranes is to be found in the vari- able dimensions of these apertures, and the state of the blood, between which a constant balance must be kept up, transudation taking place when the vessels are relaxed and their pores dilated, or these being normal when the blood is preternaturally fluid. Treatment.—We must first determine whe- ther it is or is not necessary to stop the bleed- ing, and in this be guided by the general state of the patient, whether it is such that a loss of blood is likely to be useful or injurious. If the patient be plethoric, and suffering from symptoms which will evidently be relieved by the bleeding, it is better to leave the case entirely alone, as the discharge will cease as soon as the system is sufficiently relieved. It has been considered that the sudden suppres- sion of an epistaxis was peculiarly dangerous ; and it is not improbable, that much evil might be thus effected under the circumstances just mentioned. Cases are recorded, in which death2, or epilepsy 3 is said to have been thus produced ; and another is given, in which the ill effects were averted by scarification of the nostrils 4. In the ordinary cases of active epis- taxis, the discharge will cease on placing the patient sitting erect, exposed to a free current of cool air, with the head a little inclined back- wards, and cloths dipped in cold water applied to the face and forehead ; and if it have been induced by a loaded state of the stomach, an emetic should be given. Should it continue, and the pulse remain full and hard, some blood may be taken from the arm ; though this is much too commonly practised, as it would be far better to let the nasal discharge continue until the pulse were lowered, and then stop it by mechanical means, than subject the patient to the evils of undue depletion. In all cases of active epistaxis, where the 1 Diet, de Med. tom. xii. p. 202. 2 Eph. Nat. Cur. Dec. 11. an. x. obs. 25. 3 Hagendorn, cent. 1, Hist. 20. * Scittelcs, Obs. Med. discharge has continued longer than is neces- sary to relieve any urgent symptoms present, and has not yielded to the application of cold —in all cases brought on by local injury— and in every variety of the passive form, the bleeding should be stopped as soon as pos- sible, as its continuance will not only weaken the patient, but increase the liability to a re- turn. The means of suppression are both general and local; the former consisting in the administration of acetate of lead, or ergot of rye; the latter in the local application of astringents, styptics, cold absorbent powders, or compression. There is perhaps no surgeon who would wait for the action of acetate of lead in a case of epistaxis where he was desirous of speedily stopping the bleeding ; and notwithstanding the facts related in favour of the powers of the ergot of rye in stopping epistaxis by Dr. Spairani, in the Annali di Medicina of 1830 ; M. Gabini, in the same journal of the following year; Dr. Negri and Mr. Laming, in the thirteenth volume of the Medical Gazette ; and MM. Trousseau and Pidouxl, it is by no means clear that it has such powers, or that the suppression in any of the cases they bring forward was owing to the action of the ergot. Our principal reliance, therefore, must be on local measures, of which the most simple is the injection of cold water, a cold decoction of any of the vegetable astringents, a solution of alum, or some aci- dulated fluid into the nostrils with a com- mon syringe. If this do not succeed, pow- dered gall nuts, catechu, alum, charcoal, or gum arabic, may be blown into the nostrils through a quill. This will often stop the bleeding, by producing coagulation of the blood, and forming with the coagulum an ad- hesive mass, which acts as a plug upon the bleeding surface of the mucous membrane. This plan, however, is not generally appli- cable, as it is apt to produce violent sneezing, and increase the discharge, and it becomes necessary to adopt some method of PLUGGING THE NASAL FOSSaE. The most simple mode of effecting this object, is to wind a piece of lint of the length of the floor of the nares, wetted with some cold astringent solution, around a probe in the form of a bougie, until it is as large as will be readily admitted into the anterior nares ; and after having passed this com- pletely into the inferior meatus, to withdraw the probe, and leave the lint, behind for two or three days. This is very frequently suc- cessful, as the blood in the majority of cases comes from the superior or middle meatus of the nose, which are thus effectually plugged. The only objection is, that it is apt to pro- duce considerable irritation of the mucous membrane, and to be followed by a trouble- some coryza. The proceeding attributed to Desault, and 1 Traite de Therapeutique, tom. i. p 54G