60 ECTOPIA. Fig. 207. Fig. 207. a, body of the uterus; b, anterior border of the os uteri; c c, internal surface of the cervix inverted and turned outivards; d, orifice of the cervix. The mucous coat of hollow tubes in the vicinity of their orifices is liable to inversion. Such is the case in that form of “ prolapsus ani,” in which the displaced part consists of the mucous tunic alone, separated from its connections. The lining membrane of the male urethra has been known to undergo a displacement of this kind *. In invagination the same tendency exists, as in inversion, to change of the relative situations of internal and external surfaces; but the term is used only in reference to the intestinal canal, the dimensions of which in length throw an obstacle in the way of, though they do not .always prevent, actual inversion. Portions of intestine passing into and becoming enveloped by the tract of gut either below or above them, are 6aid to have undergone invagination. There are three distinct cylinders of intestine engaged in this species of displacement : an external or invag- inating and a middle and internal invaginated. The peritoneal surface of the internal cylinder is opposed to the peritoneal surface of the middle one, and the mucous surface of the middle to the mucous surface of the external. There are two cul-de-sacs formed ; a perito- neal one at the angle of reflection of the inter- nal and central cylinders ; a mucous one at the angle of reflection of the middle and ex- ternal. These points will be easily under- stood by reference to Fig. 208. The accu- mulation of intestine within a small space commonly gives rise to appreciable tumour. This displacement has also been described under the names of intussusception, introsus- ccption, and volvulus. It is difficult to devise an unobjectionable term for the condition, which in despair of finding a more appropriate name, we have called sacculation. To this head we propose referring circumscribed displacements of the tunics composing the walls of hollow organs and tubes or serous sacs : as for example the different forms of aneurism in which, as is else- 1 Bamberger, De Intussus. Membran. Urethra: intern, ex prolaps, ejusdem. Wirceb. 1795. Fig. 208. Fig. 208. Section of an invagination of the intestine (after Cruvcilhier) : a, duodenum ; b, small intestine ; c, in- ternal surface of the invaginating portion of intestine ; d, internal surface of the invaginated portion ; e, inter- nal cylinder; f middle or central cylinder; g, ex- ternal cylinder; h h, ^peritoneal cul-de-sac ; i i, mucous cul-de-sac; kk, polypous growths. where shown by diagrams (Fig. 54. Vol. i. p. 205,) the sac may be formed by distension of the three arterial coats ; by distension of the internal and external, the middle having undergone rupture ; by the external alone, the middle and internal being ruptured ; by the internal alone, the external and middle having given way. The walls of the alimentary and genito-urinary canals are likewise liable to the different varieties of this mode of displace- ment. Circumscribed portions of peritonaeum of the stomach1 * and intestine * have been found forming pouch-like dilatations on the surfaces of those viscera. Here also appears the displace- ment, with sacculation, of the mucous coat of certain organs (as the bladder and oesophagus) through the fibres of their muscular tunic ; this condition is commonly called a hernia, but cannot be so termed without a sacrifice of precision. Sacculation of the walls of the uterus after delivery has been mistaken for a tumour. V. Changes in form of the walls of cavities are of two kinds : 7r. Expansion and Bulging. p. Retraction and Depression. Expansion is illustrated by the change in form of the ^cranium consequent upon serous accumulation in the ventricles of the brain ; and by the general enlargement occasioned by solid or fluid accumulation in the pleura : bulging (circumscribed expansion) by the altered shape of the ribs and intercostal spaces corresponding to the seat of vesicular emphysema of the lung; of the precordial region from profuse secretion of fluid in the pericardium3. ' Coley, Lancet, Jan. 1839. 3 Sebastian, Brit, and For. Med. Rev. vol. vii. p. 248. 1839. 3 M. Louis, who was the discoverer of this most important physical sign of pericarditis (voussure de la region precordialc), has likewise succeeded in esta- blishing its extreme frequency: he ascertained its 1