34 EAR, AND HEARING, DISEASES OF. age, was brought to me by bis mother, in the beginning of March, 1838, who stated her son had just been sent home from school, being no longer able to go through his exercises on account of increasing deafness. The deaf- ness, I was informed, had been first observed to come on after the measles, about four or five years ago. Is subject to catarrhal attacks in the nose and throat. Has been under treat- ment without advantage. The young gentleman could hear my watch with both ears, at a distance of one and a half inch only. Thick lips, the nose broad at its root, and the state called epicanthus, i.e. folds of skin extending from the sides of the root of the nose over the inner canthi, together with an habitually loaded tongue and enlarged tonsils, were points in the constitution of the patient worthy of being noted. On examining the auditory passages, I found them not stopped up, but scales of un- healthy wax adhering to their walls and pro- jecting into their interior, so as to prevent my obtaining a view of either membrana tympani. Auditory passages directed to be syringed out every second night, and a solution of the acetate of lead (gr. iij—^i.) to be poured in two or three times a day. Mrs. C. D. being anxious that her son should not be kept from his studies, espe- cially as it was now so near the Easter holi- days, when he would of course be at home for some time, he was allowed to return to school with the above prescription. Under its use the hearing improved so far that the scholastic exercises were gone through with- out marked impediment, which induced the master to write home, saying his pupil’s hear- ing was restored. Thursday, 12th April.—Has just returned from school, to remain at home during the Easter holidays. On examining the auditory passages I found them free, but at one or two places there was a small scab. The membrana tympani of the right side was pretty natural—perhaps only a little red. The membrana tympani of the left side was quite opaque, and presented large dark-coloured varicose vessels streaming through its substance. It was still sensible to the touch of a probe. Saturday, 14th.—The hearing distance is now eight inches on the left side, and five inches on the right. Introduced a catheter into the Eustachian tube of the right side, and blowing simply with the mouth, found it admitted the air. The hearing distance was immediately raised to seven or eight inches. The Eustachian tube of the left side impervious to a stream of air blown from the mouth. Monday, 16th.—In consultation with Sir James Clark. Having stated the results of my examinations of the case, and that I be- lieved there existed an accumulation of mucus in the tympanum, which would require the employment of the air-douche to disperse, it was resolved, before having recourse to that, to exhibit some general remedies calculated to improve the state of the mucous mem- branes. The throat and tonsils being red and swollen, but not affected with any acute in- flammation, were ordered to be pencilled daily with a solution of lunar caustic. Friday, 20th.—Hearing distance on right side nine inches; on left side eight inches. Sunday, 22nd.—Throat improving. Monday, 23rd.—Hearing distance on right side, one foot and a half; on left side, eleven inches and a half. On another day in the course of this week, the hearing distance had on the left side risen to one foot one inch and a half, but on the right side fallen as low as three inches and a half. Saturday, 28th.—Hearing distance on both sides eleven inches and a half. To leave for school on Monday. Saturday, 23rd June. — Returned from school for the Midsummer holidays. Hearing distance of the right ear about six or seven inches ; of the left, about twelve or thirteen inches. Has had since last report, while at school, several attacks of ear-ache in the right ear. To rub tartar-emetic ointment behind the ears. Monday, 2nd July.—Hearing distance of the right ear about one foot; of the left ear, fourteen or fifteen inches. Friday, 6th.—Sent in a stream of air, by means of the air-press, through a catheter introduced into the right Eustachian tube, whereupon the hearing distance was raised to one foot eleven inches. Threw in a stream of air on the left side also, after which the hearing distance was increased to one foot eight inches and a half. Duringtliese applications of the air-douche, I found that on the left side the air penetrated less freely and with more gurgling than on the right side. The good result of the first essay with the air-douche in this case, confirmed the diagnosis I had ventured to draw from my previous ob- servations, especially from the examination made by blowing air through the catheter with the mouth simply, and emboldened me to pronounce a favourable prognosis, qualified only by this, that, considering the extent to which the left ear had suffered from inflam- mation, as indicated by the opaque and thick- ened state of the membrana tympani, it was not likely to be so much improved as the right, in which no marked organic change could be detected. This prognosis, though verified by the event, had like to have been contradicted by the unfavourable turn the case took during the three following days. Saturday, 7th.— Had an attack of ear-ache in the right ear this morning, in consequence of which the hearing distance has fallen to fourteen inches. The left ear, however, has still further improved, viz. to two feet and a half. Sunday, 8th.—Ordered to-day six or eight