ABSCESS. 28 or diminishing its quantity, according to the activity of the functions proper to it. Nor can the pus itself be regarded as destitute of vitality, for it maintains its properties without alteration by chemical agency ; and when the functions of its living covering are so directed by the powers of the ceconomy, is capable of being again taken up by the absorbents, and after undergoing the changes of absorbed fluids, of being eliminated from the body, or again poured as living blood into the torrent of the circulation. Under various degrees of stimulation, this fluid may become more or less consistent, and even impregnated with sub- stances taken into the body. Upon this fact of the vitality of the envelope of an abscess rests all the hopes of the pathologist, to ob- tain, by appropriate treatment, or by the ef- forts of nature, the spontaneous resorption of the pus, and the consequent rescuing of the patient from the inconveniences, and even the dangers too often resulting from its ex- ternal evacuation. The phenomena which we have been hither- to contemplating belong, in the majority of instances, to inflammation of an acute character, arising suddenly and with a greater or less degree of violence. But there is still a nu- merous class of abscesses in which the pre- ceding irritation is either very moderate or so feeble as to be scarcely perceptible, and in which, nevertheless, the collection of pus, though slowly effected, may be very consider- able. These abscesses are almost exclusively confined to the cellular tissue, and are chiefly subcutaneous. They are observed to occur mostly in weakly subjects, persons of a scro- fulous constitution, or who have been much subject to rheumatism ; their seats of predi- lection are the covering of the chest, the neck, the pelvis, the loins, and the upper part of the thigh ; and when in this last named situation, may be easily confounded with another species of purulent collection, the abscess by congestion. As it has been already observed, they are often preceded by so little pain or heat, that they attract no notice till the fluctuation is fully dis- cernible. But their formation is often preceded by chronic engorgement or induration, which is dissipated as soon, or soon after the fluid is re- cognizable ; in such cases the progress into the suppurative stage is exceedingly slow, and will mostly require to be hastened. The process itself differs considerably, not only in degree but in effect, from what takes place in the hot inflammatory abscess. On account ot the slight irritation and increase of blood in the parts affected, the abscess, instead of being made up of a large number of small collections, first presents itself as one focus to be gradually enlarged. The fluctuation, too, even in its earliest stage is more manifest, for as the pus of the inflammatory and rapidly formed abscess is more consistent, so the pus in the cold or slowly formed abscess exhibits the reverse ot this quality ; it is thin, serous, greenish, not unlike whey in which small portions of the curd may be still discovered. When the ir- ritation has been too obscure to he remarked, and the fluid is very thin, pale, and transpa- rent, it would seem more like the effect of some unknown perversion of the nutrient function in the parts, whereby the natural ex- halation in the areoles of the cellular membrane is altered, than the product of any inflamma- tion, however slight in degree. These are the common characters of pus in these abscesses; but there are also in this respect many varie- ties. It is sometimes charged with shreds of cellular membrane, sometimes as consistent and transparent as the vitreous humour of the eye, and sometimes also more consistent still, like honey, or softened lard, thus forming as it were a link between the contents of abscesses and those of tumours of a melicerous or stea- tomatous nature. The slowness with which the chronic abscess is developed produces a corresponding influence on the formation of its walls : the wall itself is thicker, more per- fectly organized, and from this greater con- densation, in some instances, it comes nearer to the character of cysts or encysted produc- tions, and there is little or no trace of inflam- mation to be discovered in the parts surround- ing the cyst: the internal surface is greyish red, soft, villous, and, excepting some irregular pro- ductions, is so distinctly membranous as to resemble mucous surfaces. When the abscess is fully formed, it presents itself immediately, or almost immediately, under the skin as a soft, indolent, circumscribed, undulating tumour ; the skin is readily moved upon it, and retains its natural colour and sensibility, except when the distension becomes very great, and the abscess is on the point of bursting. In the two preceding varieties of abscess, we have seen that the matter is formed in the parts which had been previously irritated ; there is however another variety of this affection, which differs from them in this respect, as well as in the cause that gives rise to them, and which on this account, may be designated as the symptomatic abscess. It depends not upon an irritation in the parts surrounding the collected pus, but on the affection of some other organ, neighbouring or remote, and of which it is an evidence, or a symptom. If the part primitively affected be surrounded by very loose and permeable cellular tissue, and the pus be formed by slow, and insensible degrees, it easily makes way througfi the loose membrane, without irri- tating it in a perceptible manner, and, accord- ing to the resistance it may encounter, gra- vitates, either in a direct or tortuous course, as it is impelled, by the action of the muscles, or the pressure of the surrounding parts, into more declive situations, at variable distance from the place where it was first poured out; thus forming the tumour, known as the puru- lent depot or abscess by congestion. True it is that many abscesses may be symptomatic of a local affection, which differ much from that here characterized as such. But in the present instance, we mean the species which depends most commonly on caries, or any other organic alteration of a bone, on the soft- ening of the vertebrae, the erosion of their