42 EAR, AND HEARING, DISEASES OF. by leeches and counter-irritation in the neigh- bourhood of the ears, exert a slightly bene- ficial action in some cases, but the advantage gained is too often partial and temporary only. As general remedies, mercury in alterative doses, iodide of potassium, &c. have been used, but not with flattering success. In the continuation of Case IV., all the im- provement of hearing according to the watch that was gained occurred in the first six weeks of treatment. But it is to be re- marked there was not a corresponding in- crease in the power to carry on conversation. This only began to manifest itself during the second course of general treatment, and went on under the influence of the renewed local treatment. Stricture of the Eustachian tube, when it exists, is in no case the sole cause of the deafness, and it w'ould be of no use to subject the patient to the distress attending attempts at dilatation, even if success in the object could be calculated on. It is sometimes found, as already mentioned, that it is in the duller ear the Eustachian tube is pervious! and that when impervious Eustachian tubes are ren- dered free, so that the access of air to the tympanic cavities is again permitted, this is not always followed by any amelioration of the deafness. Obliteration of the Eustachian tube.—Otto’ once found the guttural orifice of the Eusta- chian tube obliterated. Wever2 mentions a case in which the whole Eustachian tube was filled with a consistent fibrous substance, closely connected with the mucous mem- brane, so that no opening into the cavity of the tympanum could be discovered. There was an accumulation of mucus in the cavity of the tympanum. These are the kind of cases in which perforation of the membrana tym- pani is particularly recommended, but how little hope there is of advantage from such a measure has already been sufficiently shown. In a case in which there had been puriform discharge from the tympanum, Mr. Saunders3 found on dissection the Eustachian tube im- pervious, and half of the membrana tympani destroyed. Appreciation of catheterism and injection of the Eustachian tube. An event in the history of the surgery of the ear is the discovery of the possibility of throwing injections into the middle ear in obstructions of it, through a catheter intro- duced into the Eustachian tube ; a discovery which has turned out to be of more advan- tage, how'ever, to the diagnosis than to the treatment of the diseases of the ear. Sur- gery is indebted to a post-master of Ver- sailles of the name of Guyot, for having first ’ Scltenc Beobaclitungen zur Anatomic, Physiologic and Pathologic geliorig. Breslau, 1816, Ileft I. p. 111. '-Diss. I navi g. de Copliosi et Baryecoia congenita, &c. Friburgi, 1835, p. 13. 3 On the Ear, &c. 2nd edition, p. 52. London, 1817. called attention to the subject. Having ac- quired some knowledge of anatomy of the ear, he was led to think of this in the hope of doing something for the alleviation of a deafness under which he himself laboured. For this purpose he invented a syringe with a long curved pipe, which he presented in 1724 to the Royal Academy of Sciences of Paris. But he proposed to introduce the catheter into the Eustachian tube through the mouth, a thing not practicable, though he might, as the reporters of the Academy remark, have succeeded in washing out the mouth of the Eustachian tube. It is proba- ble that it was merely in this way his own deafness was relieved. For this very imper- fect, and, indeed, impracticable procedure of Guyot, Archibald Cleland, an English army surgeon, substituted in 1731 the introduction of a flexible silver catheter, through the nose into the Eustachian tube. Petit had pre- viously suggested, and Douglas had demon- strated in his anatomical lectures, the possibi- lity of passing a probe, &c. into the Eusta- chian tube by the nostrils ; but Wathen was the first who gave cases in which by injec- tions of water into the Eustachian tube, a partially favourable result, at least, was ob- tained. In his paper in the Philosophical Transactions, Cleland spoke of blowing air into the tympanum through a flexible tube (the ureter of a large animal) attached to the catheter introduced into the Eustachian tube. Herold', a surgeon of Copenhagen, proposed injections of air through a perforation in the mastoid process, as being more natural for the cavity of the tympanum than water. Lentin2 recommends warm air in preference to any liquid injection, to be blown into the Eustachian tube for the purpose of opening it up when obstructed with mucus. Itard recommends in his work3 air injections into the tympanum, as a means of diagnosis in disea?es of the ear, but Deleau was the first who perfected the plan and gave full effect to Laennec’s suggestions as above pointed out. In regard to the introduction of the in- jection of vapours into the middle ear, as a medicinal agent:—Itard recommended ga- seous injections into the middle car in 1816, and Kramer has since particularly lauded the injection of the vapour of acetic ether, as a remedy in “nervous deafness.” I have already expressed my opinion (p. 30,) as to the na- ture of the cases benefited by the injection of the vapour of acetic ether. The following result of the application of the air-douche in a great number of different cases is given by Itard4. 1 Todc, Arzneykundige Annalcn, No. 12, p. 50, 1792. 2 Tentamen vitiis auditus medendi, &c. 1793. 3 Vol. ii. p. 210. 4 Rapport dc M. Itard stir un memoirc intitule, Rcclierches sur la Surdite considerec particulierement sous lc rapport de ses causes et son traitement: in Menioircs dc 1’Academic Royale de Medeciue, tome v. Baris, 1836.