207 FISTULA, INTESTINAL. having been gradually increased, the patient experienced some pains in the abdomen, and feces began to take the natural course. The projecting ridge, reduced to a narrow band as the aperture was progressively enlarged, at length gave way, and a free communication between the two ends of intestine was esta- blished. Some portions of intestinal matters still escaped by the wound ; and M. Dupuy- tren, desirous of preventing the unnatural dis- charge, and concluding that the two portions of intestine had become adherent to a consi- derable extent beyond the perforation, cut away portions of the partition by curved probe-pointed scissors, repeating the opera- tion at intervals of three or four days. Yield- ing at length to the importunities of his patient, he one day removed the intervening substance more freely; and peritonitis, speed- ily proving fatal, followed. On examination of the body, no opening into the peritoneum could be detected, and there was not any feculent effusion. The opening between the two portions of intestine was about two inches in extent. The two extremities, formerly separated by a prominent angle, now present- ed a uniform cavity, on the posterior wall of which was observable the cicatrix which mark- ed the place of section of the intestine. A similar operation had been previously per- formed by Schmalkalden in Germany, and by Dr Physick in America, without being known to M. Dupuytren. Destruction of the partition by the JEntero- tome.—From the difficulty of passing the needle to a sufficient height in the intestine, and from the danger of there being perfora- tion without adhesion in those cases where the two portions of intestine were not parallel and in contact, M. Dupuytren relinquished this mode of operation, and directed his ener- gies to the discovery of one less objectionable. Accordingly he devised an instrument, which he has named the enterotonie ', calculated to seize the parts, to hold them in apposition, and forcibly to compress them. The result of its application would be, the destruction of the vitality of the inclosed part, the detachment of the dead portion by the sloughing process, and the unison by adhesion of the adjacent living parts, held in apposition by the instru- ment. The instrument is a kind of forceps, consist- ing of three pieces,—namely, two branches, which lock like the blades of forceps used in midwifery, and a screw, whereby the handles ' The views of M. Dupuytren on the treatment of abnormal anus by the enterotonie, were originally ex- pounded in his Clinical Lectures, and first published in Germany in 1017, by M. Rcisingcr. A further ac- count was published in England, in the Quarterly Journal of Foreign Medicine and Surgery, Nos. 9 and 10, by M. Breschet. At a later period, M. Dupuytren himself embodied his own views in essays published in the Memoires de T Academic Royale dc Medecine, t. i. 182ft; and in the Dietionnaire de Medecine ct dc Chirurgic Pratiques, t. i. 1829. The Treatise of Mr. Lawrence on Ruptures, .5th edition, contains a full notice of the proceeding of Baron Dupuytren. can be approximated or separated. The branches are each six or seven inches in length, consisting of the blade and the handle, between which is the part constituting the joint. The blade of the male branch is re- ceived, to the depth of a line, in a groove formed in the female branch, as the edge of a pocket-knife fits into the groove of its handle. This blade is four inches long, three lines wide, and half a line thick on what may be called its cutting edge, which is undulated, and terminates in a small spheroidal button. The female branch is grooved to receive the cutting edge of the male, the margins of the groove being undulated in correspondence with the waving line of the male branch. The button at the end of the male is received into a cavity of the female branch. The blades separately introduced into the two portions of intestine, and afterwards ap- proximated, compress the projecting ridge and intervening partition between their un- dulating edges. By increasing the pressure, the inclosed parts lose their vitality, and are afterwards detached, being retained within the grasp of the instrument. Whilst the par- tition is thus undergoing division, the accom- panying adhesive process prevents the cavity of the peritoneum being laid open. Before applying the instrument, it is neces- sary to ascertain with precision the situation and direction of the two ends of intestine. The superior opening, from its large size and the escape of feculent matter, may in general be easily detected ; but the lower aperture, which is usually reduced in size, pushed out of its original position, and concealed by the projecting valve and the inequalities in the wound, is with difficulty found, and has some- times, even by M. Dupuytren, not been de- tected until after several days have been devoted to the search. This object being attained, the operator introduces one branch of the enterotome, guided by the fore finger of the left hand, into one end of the bowel, to a depth varying Fig. 254. Seymental enterotome applied.