183 AMPUTATION. with a single or double flap. When two flaps are formed, they are cut in such a manner as to form an anterior and posterior, or two late- ral flaps; the other modes of forming the flaps are but variations of these. With two lateral flaps, or an outside and in- side one.—In some of the early descriptions of this method, it is recommended, as a proper E>recaution against haemorrhage, to tie the emoral artery, close up by Poupart’s liga- ment, and above the origin of the circumflex and profunda. Larrey makes this the first step of the operation, (I, II, III, 1, 2, 3, figs. 42 and 43,) and the practice has the approval of Blandin, who thinks, that as the artery is easily secured, and the haemorrhage from so large a vessel would be so quickly fatal, that it will be more proper, rational, and prudent, to begin the operation by placing a ligature upon it. Others, on the contrary, dissent from this doctrine, regarding it as an additional and a superfluous operation, and rely on the compression made on the trunk of the artery with a pad, or the fingers of an intelligent assistant, against the horizontal branch of the pubis. Cases, however, may occur, where the exhaustion of the patient is so great, that it becomes imperative to secure him against all mischances, and under such circumstances, it would be improper to slight this precaution. But whether the artery be first tied or not, the patient is placed on his back, the pelvis supported by a pillow, and advanced to the edge of a bed or table. The surgeon places himself on the outside of the limb, and plunges a long slender knife into the upper part of the thigh, in a direction from front to back, so that the blade shall graze the bone just be- tween the upper edge of the trochanter minor, and the root of the neck of the femur. The knife is urged on in the same direction until its point comes through the skin at the opposite surface of the limb ; the edge of the knife is then directed downwards, and in- wards, and keeping close to, but clear, of the small trochanter, and an internal flap about four inches long is made with a quick and even sweep of the knife. The flap is raised towards the opposite thigh, and the limb being car- ried a little in abduction, one-half of the cap- sular ligament is cut close upon the brim of the acetabulum, the edge of the knife being directed in the same manner as if the surgeon wished to cut off the spherical head of the bone through the middle. The movement of abduction is augmented, and the internal liga- ment being thus made tense against the head of the femur, is easily divided. The head of the bone being now drawn down, the knife is turned round it, and the other half of the capsular ligament is cut. The tendons of the gluteal muscles are cut through, close to the outer and back part of the great trochanter, and the knife is carried outwards and down- wards, so as to form an external flap, similar to the internal one. When the femoral artery is previously tied, the first flap incision should proceed from the inferior angle of the wound inflicted for that purpose ; and, again, when the knife has doubled the head of the bone, it should be brought down the outside of it, until it falls again into the preliminary wound, and it is then carried outwards and downwards to form the external semicircular flap. With an anterior and posterior flap.—Mr. Guthrie’s method of forming the flaps differs from that just described in regard to the point from which the incisions proceed, and their direction. He first divides the integuments only, on the inside and then on the outside of the limb, from a point in front of the spinous process of the ilium, to another, close by the tuberosity of the ischium, where the two in- cisions join again (o, p, q, and h, o, n, figs. 42 and 43). The skin is reflected up, and the muscles are cut at the point of re- traction, obliquely upwards towards the arti- culation. The two flaps thus formed arc provided with an ample covering of integu- ment, and may be described as internal and anterior, and external and posterior. Mr. Guthrie does not tie the femoral artery in the first instance as Larrey does, and his mode of operating differs only from that re- commended by Beclard, in the incision and retraction of the integuments, and in cutting the muscles from without inwards, instead of plunging the knife in at each side of the head of the bone, and then cutting outwards. One obvious advantage obtained by proceeding according to Mr. Guthrie’s plan is, that it leaves more integument and less muscle in the wound ; and, in one of such extent, this is a consideration of no small importance. Dupuytrcn used to form the internal flap by an incision, first, of the integuments, and then of the muscles upwards to the joint; he made the outer flap with one incision. With a single flap.—This method is well described in one of the early theses on this subject by De Vallun :—The patient lying on the sound hip, the operator makes a trans- verse semicircular incision, from the upper part of the great trochanter to the tuberosity of the ischium, dividing at once all the parts down to the joint. (9, 10, fig. 42; 4, 5, 3, fig. 43). The limb is now rotated in- wards, the outer and back part of the cap- sular ligament is cut, and the round ligament, with a probe-pointed bistouri. The limb is brought a little downwards, and the rest of the capsular ligament being cut, a flap four or five inches long, according to the volume of the limb, is formed from the flesh on the in- side of the thigh. Manec, and Ashmead, of Philadelphia, have proposed reversing the steps of this proceeding, forming the inner- flap first, cutting from without inwards and upwards, then disarticulating the head of the bone, and cutting outwards. When the femoral artery has been tied, previously to the formation of the flaps, the operation is terminated without stopping to secure the other bleeding vessels.