COLOBOMA. SOI voi.. i. 3 F more than of the thickness of a finger, and about the size of a playing card. They are fixed to a band passed round the forehead so as to hang over the eye ; they ought not to be bound over the part. In general the bags are warmed before being applied. The materials used for filling the bags are aromatic species (chamomile-flowers, sage, rosemary, thyme, &c.) mixed or not with shavings of camphor. The species are re- duced to a coarse powder, from which all dust is to be separated by a sieve. To fill a bag of the size above indicated one and a half to three drachms of herbs, flowers, &c. will be required. Bran or bean-flour is much used as an ex- cipient and diluent of the aromatic or narcotic materials. When camphor is the only active substance employed, it may be applied by means of a compress, prepared by enclosing a layer of cotton wool, impregnated with it, between two layers of gauze. The impregnation is readily effected by soaking the wool in strong spirit of camphor, and then allowing it to dry quickly : when dry the wool is teased out. Examples. Ijo—Flor. chamomill. sambuc. aa p. j. Farin. fabar. pp. ij. M. F. Pulvis. D. S. Ad sacculum e linteo factum, quo oculus afleetus obtegi debet, implendum. A bag filled with the following narcotic powder is recommended, by Dr. von Am- mon ' in iritis :— Ije—Pulv. Hb. belladonnas 3j. Farinaj amygd. dulc. Jji. F. Pulvis. The vapour of the weaker volatile fluids is applied by spreading the fluid out on a warm surface and allowing it to evaporate near the eyes. Thus, having poured a few drops of the fluid into one hand and spread it out on the palms of both, by rubbing them quickly together, the hollow of the hand is to be held more or less close before the eye, according to the strength of the material and degree of action desired. Watery Vapours gently soothe the eyes ; the patient holds his face over a vessel contain- ing hot water, with or without any aroma- tic or narcotic admixture, so that the steam is received by the eyes. A cloth is thrown over all. When it is wished to have the steam play more directly on the eye, a funnel is inverted over the vessel, and the tube direct- ed towards the eye at a proper distance, care being at the same time taken that the steam is not too hot. After the application, the face and eyelids are to be well dried, and exposure to any draught of air carefully avoided. 1 Dr Iri tide, p. 28. Lipsiac, 1838. Examples. Steaming mixtures may be prepared, by' putting into a cupful of hot water a teaspoon- ful or two of one or more of the following preparations :— Tincture of opium. Tincture of camphor. Compd. tincture of camphor. Tincture of hyoscyamus. A spirituous or vinous solution of extract belladonna. A douche, usually of cold spring wafer, is sometimes applied to the closed eyelids, or to the neighbourhood of the eye. There are particular douche-apparatuses, but a carefully and gently directed stream from a syringe, or from a funnel with its throat slightly stuffed with tow, suspended over the patient’s face will serve the purpose at an exigency. In the weak and rheumy eyes of old per- sons, and in a similar state remaining after an attack of ophthalmia, it is often agreeable, and indeed productive of great relief, occasionally to draw some cold body across the eyelids. For this purpose a long slender bottle with a smooth round bottom, and filled with ice has been recommended. (T. Wharton Jones.') COLOBOMA, KoXo/3aipo, mutilatio.— This term, in ophthalmology, was first applied to a fissure of the eyelid, like hare-lip, the result of a wound in which by neglect the edges had been allowed to cicatrize separately. A fissure of the eyelids has been, though rarely, met with as a congenital defect. The term colo- boma has been since extended to a fissure of the iris, whether congenital or produced by injury, extending from the pupil towards the ciliary margin. There are thus two genera, viz. co/oboma palpebrce and coloboma iridis, (iridoschisma,) and two species of each, viz. the congenital and traumatic. Coloboma palpebrce.—This is to be treated by making the edges of the fissure raw, and uniting them by the hare-lip suture, in the same manner as when a A-shaped piece has been cut out for the cure of certain forms of ectropium. What are called insect-pins are well-adapted for the suture. They should be in- serted, and brought out at some distance, about one-tenth of an inch, from the edges of the fissure, and not implicate the conjunctiva. It is to be remembered also, that the first pin is to be inserted near the ciliary margin of the eyelid, in order to insure evenness at this place. Should it be found that, when the coloboma is united, the edge of the eyelid is so short, that it presses upon the eyeball, and has a tendency to turn inward, an incision should be made near the outer canthus, through the whole thickness of the eyelid, and perpendicular to its edge, in order to relieve the stricture. This recent coloboma is to be prevented from uniting by the first intention by keeping its edges retracted. Such a proceeding I have adopted with great advantage in old cases of inversion of the lower evelid, depending prin-