3G6 ARM, BEND OF. gave no relief; another transverse incision above the first succeeded in dividing the in- jured nerve, and the patient immediately ex- claimed, “ I am cured!” Bosquillon, in his notes to Bell’s Surgery, mentions two cases of neuralgia of the neck, following bleeding in the jugular veins. I have heard of similar cases occurring after venesection in the sa- phena vein. Ambroise Pare has given an in- teresting account of acute pain produced by the lancet, which occurred in the person of King Charles the Ninth of France, who was bled by an expert operator, and “ who, think- ing to open the vein, pricked the nerve, which quickly made the king cry out, saying, that he felt a very great pain.” The arm was im- mediately contracted, and could not be un- bent for three months. Before we leave this subject, and to show how imperfectly it is treated even by the most recent authors ’, we give the following quotation1 2 : “ The wounds of tendons do not deserve notice, nor even those of nerves ; the former can scarcely be wounded in the operation (of bleeding), and would not in all probability, if they were, lead to any bad consequence; the partial di- vision of branches of the cutaneous nerves has given rise to painful feelings in the limb, and to general disturbance of the nervous sys- tem. Such occurrences are rare, may be treated by general means, or, if need be, the original wound may be slightly enlarged. No regular dissection of the bend of the arm, as has been proposed, can ever be warranted.” Notwithstanding this authority, after the facts we have stated in this paper, the reader will be convinced that the biceps tendon is easily wounded by the lancet, and that the nerves “ deserve notice.” Mr. Liston himself shows, that enlarging the wound is a very imperfect treatment; and that without making “ a regu- lar dissection of the bend of the arm," the cica- trice or wound should be removed, or the nerve divided transversely across and above the puncture. If the lancet be plunged too deep, the vein may be pierced through and through, or the blood may escape from both apertures, and thus cause extravasation, which, owing to the superficial cellular fascia, will not be apparent outwardly by any redness of the skin, as in common ecchymosis produced by the blood flowing into the cellular tissue, and when the puncture in the skin is too small, or is not parallel with the incision of the vein. I have lately dissected the arm of a man who was bled a few days before his death, in which there were no outward signs of extravasation of blood ; but upon examination, a quantity of blood was found under the superficial cellular fascia, and extended principally along the me- 1 Mon9. Mondiere, Archives dc Med., p. 300, 1837, in his analysis of Mr. Swan’s work, very justly re- marks, that this subject is not even mentioned in the new Diet, de Med., and, I might add, many other French productions. 2 Page 192 of Mr. Liston's Practical Surgery. Lon- don, 1837. dian basilic vein, to the aponeurotic canal of the communicating vein, where it seemed to pass beneath the aponeurotic fascia as far as the insertion of the biceps tendon into the radius, and surrounded also the deep veins. Careful inspection showed that the median basilic vein had been transpierced by the lan- cet ; coagula were still adherent to the posterior opening of the vessel; the fas- cia tendinosa of the biceps muscle did not exhibit any corresponding wound; there- fore it is highly probable that the venous blood, in flowing out behind the vein, was kept down by the cellular tissue and superfi- cial fascia, and thus found its way to the vena communicans, and hence to the deep veins. There can be little doubt that the veins of the arm must frequently be transpierced by the lancet, and that more or less blood may pass into the cellular tissue beneath the super- ficial fascia, and in this manner escape disco- very ; those pains which are frequently pro- duced by the slightest motion of the elbow after bleeding, may be thus explained. Some- times also a slight swelling in the neighbour- hood of the puncture of the lancet is discern- ible, and can easily be accounted for by ad- mitting this double division of the vein, which we think will be best avoided by making use of a very sharp and broad-pointed lancet. The next parts to be described are all covered by the aponeurotic fascia, which cannot be completely understood until the biceps muscle is considered : this membrane however presents many irregularities in dif- ferent situations ; hence it is strongest on the inner side of the bend of the arm, where it generally receives a considerable addition from the biceps tendon ; after which it spreads over the pronator and flexor muscles of the '• fore-arm, and subdivides into distinct sheaths, which confine them in their proper place, and give them support during their contraction. The knowledge of the existence of these sheaths is of great importance, for it explains how matter may be present without forming any tumor, but being kept down by their fascia may extend along the fore-arm ; and hence also the necessity of opening them as soon as suppuration appears to have com- menced. On the outer side of the biceps ten- don, this aponeurosis is reduced to a fine trans- parent membrane, which, owing to its extreme delicacy, does not seem to cover the tendon; nevertheless it passes over it, and then behind the cephalic vein and musculo-cutaneus exter- nus nerve, where it unites to the fascia given off from the brachialis muscle, which covers the outer or radial eminence. The muscles which are found in this region of the arm are interesting to the surgeon, and a knowledge of them can alone account for many facts regarding fractures and disloca- tions. The biceps muscle forms the upper and anterior projection of the bend of the arm ; it terminates in a strong tendon, which is somew hat twisted upon itself, and is finally inserted along the posterior edge of the tu- 12