AMPUTATION. 134 they are slightly convex on the edge, and having neither a prominent heel, nor too thin nor too blunt a point, will cut safely from one end to the other ; the handle should be suf- ficiently large to afford the hand a firm and easy grasp. The knives used by the old sur- geons, and more especially the curved ones recommended by Wiseman, are unworthy of notice except as objects of curiosity. The bistouries should have fixed handles, or at least such as do not admit accidental motion. The best amputating saw is that invented by Dr. Fox of Derby. Its back is joined to the blade only at the extremities, and being moveable, may be inclined on either side so as to admit of the instrument being worked at the bottom of a hollow wound without the least chafing on the muscles or retractor. By this most useful improvement, Dr. Fox has rendered an important service to surgery. The next best saw to that of Dr. Fox i3 a common sash-saw rather widely set. Indeed, the surgeon should never use one that is not set sufficiently to work freely, or one that he is not accustomed to use. Every saw is an instrument with which a particular acquaint- ance is desirable on the part of the person who makes use of it. A joiner cannot work well if he has not his own favourite saw: how then can a surgeon expect to do so ? Retractors of various kinds, and made of different mate- rials, have been recommended. Some are made of leather. Baron Percy constructed one of metal which consists of two hemispherical plates, notched at the centre of the corre- sponding edges for the bone to pass through, and joined together by a hinge. But a large linen compress split for half its length, into one or two straps, according as the part to be amputated may have one or two bones, makes the best retractor, and is the only one now in use. For tying the arteries and dressing the stump, there should be ready,—1. A good dissecting forceps, a tenaculum, a hook forceps, and two or three curved needles furnished with ligatures of different sizes. 2. Two or three fine sponges and warm water. 3. Straps of ad- hesive pfaster, and a vessel containing boiling water, against the sides of which they may be warmed. 4. Two or more small pieces of linen in which to enclose the ends of the liga- tures. 5. Lint, linen compresses, and two roller bandages, each two or three yards in length. The greased strips of linen, with which the French encircle the wound after the straps have been applied, and perhaps the lint used to form a pad to it, may be dispensed with, unless the latter be employed to keep the stump at a proper temperature; but for this purpose flannel or down is prefer- able. The ligatures employed should be round, strong, and made of twine waxed, or of silk. They should vary in size, but it is desirable to have them of the least volume which will admit of their being drawn sufficiently tight. Silk ones therefore seem to be the best. The largest trunks of the limbs require only strong dentists’ silk. Where an artery is unsound, however, I would recommend a large round twine ligature. The large flat ligatures used by the French are objectionable : they do not grasp the ar- tery well ; nor are they so well adapted as round ones to cut regularly through its inter- nal and middle coat: they occasion suppu- ration in proportion to their size, and the large knot may prevent their coming away properly. The straps of adhesive plaster should be from eight to ten or twelve inches long, and from three quarters of an inch to an inch and a half wide. They ought to be of recent pre- paration that they may stick easily. It is im- portant to attend minutely to what is necessary for the dressing, in order that the patient may be put to bed without loss of time. The number of assistants required for the operation varies according to the part to be amputated : one will be necessary to manage the circulation in the limb ; another will be required to draw up the skin and grasp the limb above the place of amputating ; a third should hold that part of the limb which is to be removed; and it will be well to have a fourth to hand the instruments to the ope- rator, to apply the ligatures, and to hand up what is necessary for the dressing. Measures necessary to prevent and regulate the loss of blood during Amputation.—During am- putations performed nearer to the trunk than to the fingers or toes, the divided arteries in most cases would bleed enough to cause serious detriment to the patient, or even death, unless the flow of blood in them were considerably diminished. Perhaps it would be advisable, in many cases, to arrest the circulation in them completely ; but this is not practicable. There must be some loss of blood from the arteries ; but we have the means of rendering it compatible with the safety of the patient. Of these means, the ancients, generally speak- ing, had so inadequate a knowledge, that in the few amputations they dared to perform on living parts, the patient seems, according to Celsus and other writers, to have been in great danger of bleeding to death*. Peyrilhc, however, gave it as his opinion, that Arclii- genes was not only acquainted with the plan of guarding against too much bleeding during amputation, by tying a belt or bandage tightly round the limb which he wetted at the same time with cold water, but that he employed a ligature which he passed through the limb and tied so as to embrace, at once, its principal vascular trunks and the soft parts surrounding and covering them, before he began the ope- ration. Physiology teaches what ought to be done. The object to be attained is to prevent the arrival of more blood in the limb by the 1 The expression of Celsus is, 44 Nam sa*pe in ipso opere, vcl profusione sanguinis, vel animec defectione moriuntur.”