122 AMPUTATION. or disease affecting them ? and what will they be in the case in question — that is, under the particular circumstances of the patient with regard to age, sex, physical, mental, and moral constitution, previous and present ha- bits, place of abode, climate, season, and the care and attention that can be obtained for him ? Having such data, the surgeon will be able to foretel the issue of a case with a degree of certainty proportionate to his pathological knowledge ; and it is here that he will appreciate the value of a thorough ac- quaintance with pathology, and feel amply repaid for all the pains its acquisition may have cost him ; for upon this only can he rely. By nothing less than a systematic and ela- borate investigation of all the circumstances of a case, can we expect to form an accurate opinion on the point in question. Let no man believe that his experience has endowed him with the power of judging correctly by any other method of proceeding. Let no man be tempted by the love of the marvellous to fancy himself a prophet. There must be no plunging at a conclusion: the shrewdest guess may lead to a woeful mistake ; and nothing can be more reprehensible than yield- ing, in the least, to the suggestions of a spirit of divination or instinctive sagacity, which, if we proceeded without method, might have some influence, and in which a sort of self- complacency, derived from previous success, may sometimes induce us conscientiously to believe ourselves in possession of. When the consequences which will ensue in any particular case, under the two modes of treatment,—that by amputation, and that without amputation,—(and, in considering the former, the shock of the operation must be taken into account,) have been correctly esti- mated and summed up, the surgeon has only to range them side by side, and to compare them. He will amputate where the conse- quences of the treatment by amputation establish the greater number of chances in favour of the patient’s life and health ; and he will not amputate where these chances are established by the treatment without the ope- ration. This appears to us to be the rule by which he ought to be guided. Authors usually state that amputation ought only to be performed where the life of the patient can- not be saved without it. French writers ex- press themselves to that effect'. But this is not the rigid expression of the rule. To make it so it would be necessary to say “ where health as well as life cannot be saved without it.” For there are cases where the life, but not the 1 Neither Velpeau, Blandin, nor even Cloquet seem to have conceived, or certainly to have expressed cor- rectly the rule which ought to be laid down. Sanson comes nearer to it in saying,—“ Amputation ought to be performed only when the danger to which it ex- poses the patient is less than that of the disease.” But to be correct, he shculd have said, “ Amputation ought to be performed when the danger and inconvenience to which it exposes the patient are less than those of the disease treated otherwise.” health can be preserved without amputation. Suppose, for example, the consequence of a local injury treated without amputation to be a frequent disturbance of the patient’s health, interfering materially with his well-being, but insufficient to put life in danger : it does not always follow that this treatment is right or justifiable. It follows on the contrary that if restoration to perfect health would have been the consequence of the removal of the limb by amputation, the treatment with the operation might possibly be the proper treatment. A man came to the Hotel Dieu who had lost his right abdominal limb below the knee, from mortification produced, he said, by the use of bad bread containing ergoted rye. His object was to know if anything could be done to better the condition of the stump, the soft parts of which were constantly ulcerating, in consequence of the bones being prominent. The inconvenience was such that he could not make use of his limb for walking, and the cicatrix pressed upon by the bones was so painful as greatly to impair his general health. Now, let it be asked whether, at the time of the mortification, the proper treatment would not have been the removal of the limb by am- putation, so as to leave a good, useful, and painless stump. This conclusion seems in- evitable. On the one hand, the process ne- cessary for the separation of the dead parts, (of itself probably more or less dangerous to life,) entailed upon the patient a source ot constant suffering and great deformity. On the other hand, amputation, perhaps not equally, but we will say equally dangerous to life, would probably have secured a healthy, useful stump. There can be no doubt then that the treatment by amputation would have been the proper one ; and yet the treatment with- out it is that suggested by the rule given by authors ; namely, that amputation is to be performed only in cases where the patient’s life cannot be saved without it. We do not mean it to be implied that surgeons often act thus, but still, we deem it important as far as possible, to supplant whatever precepts are indefinite and incomplete by positive and fixed rules. In a case like the above, the choice between the two modes of treatment must rest mainly upon their comparative danger. If the probabilities of danger are greater on the side of amputation, so much so as to out- weigh the probable inconvenience or occa- sional disturbance of health entailed by the preservation of the limb, unquestionably it ought not to be adopted ; but if the probable danger is about equal under both plans of treatment, the operation ought to be per- formed. The superiority of one plan over the other is just in proportion to the less de- gree of danger it offers to life and health, and not to life alone. The proper rule of proceed- ing, then, in all cases, may be clearly ex- pressed in a very few words, and in its sim- plest form, would stand thus :—Place the dan- ger to life and health from the lesion treated