411 ARTICULATIONS. had produced adhesions more or less extensive of tlie reflected folds of the membrane to each other, and has occasionally observed such partial adhesions as may be supposed to have arisen from inflammation at some former period. This phenomenon, however, is not of very common occurrence. More frequently we meet with an inflammation attended with copious secretion of altered synovia. This may assume the most mild form, revealing itself only by swelling, a feeling of fluctuation when the joint is pressed upon, and a very slight degree of weakness and uneasiness in the limb. This state constitutes what is com- monly termed hydrops articuli. By the sur- geons of the last age it was classed as a dis- tinct disease, but no good reason can be assigned for excluding it from among the forms of synovitis. In a more decided state of inflammation, the swelling of the joint is less notable, but the pain is greater though still not severe, and unless checked, the disease slowly, but certainly, proceeds to at- tack every other tissue in the joint, and pro- duces the most complete and remediless dis- organization. Between this chronic form and the most acute, the inflammation may assume various shades of severity, which have been most clearly and graphically sketched by Mr. Key, in the Med.-Chir. Transactions. The various forms blend into each other so imper- ceptibly, and one may so rapidly pass into the other, (the most chronic into the most acute, or vice versa,) that it is impossible to draw any clear lines of distinction between them. In the most acute form, the disease may entirely and permanently cease after the lapse of a short time, as we occasionally see in traumatic synovitis occurring in a healthy subject; or it may subside into a chronic action, continuing for months or years, always liable to become again acute, and to involve the surrounding structures ; or it may take on a suppurative form, producing speedy ul- ceration of the membrane, and placing the patient’s life and limb in imminent peril. Sir Benjamin Brodie has described as some- thing distinct from inflammatory action, and corresponding to the heterologue deposits, such as cancer and tubercle, a pulpy degene- ration of the synovial membrane. The sym- ptoms which usher in, and accompany this disease, and the course which it pursues, bear a close resemblance to chronic synovitis. I have in one instance seen appearances pre- cisely similar to those described by Sir Ben- jamin. The synovial membrane passing from bone to bone, and forming the mucous liga- ments, was thickened to about the third of an inch, firm and elastic, of a light yellow colour, chequered by white striae. In this case, the history and symptoms appeared to indicate that the disease had commenced in the bone, and this was confirmed in a great measure by the state of the bones and carti- lage discovered on examining the limb after amputation. Until some further light is thrown upon the subject, it may be allowable to include the disease among the forms of synovitis. The synovial membrane may, however, be the seat of very distinct hetero- logue formations, as will be seen by a refer- ence to the article “Diseases of Synovial Membrane.” Along with the diseases of the synovial mem- brane itself, it will be most in accordance with the practice of modern pathologists to mark the diseases incident to the sub-synovial cel- lular tissue. This tissue, of which the exist- ence between the cartilage and its lining membrane is only inferred from analogy, is very fully developed around the other por- tions of the synovial capsule. It shares in the inflammation of the membrane to which it is attached, and, becoming infiltrated with lymph, tends materially to produce the thick- ened state of the synovial membrane com- monly observed in diseased joints. The most interesting light, however, in which it can be regarded, is as the nidus in which are deve- loped the loose cartilages of joints which have so long engaged the attention of pathologists. The union of many observations has now fur- nished a tolerably clear account of the origin of these bodies. They are rarely, if ever, purely cartilaginous, but are composed of a mass of bone covered with a layer of carti- lage. They seem to originate in some com- paratively slight and local inflammation of the sub-synovial cellular tissue. In all the cases related by Hey, their formation had been preceded by a sprain or contusion of the joint in which they occurred, aud some other observers have noticed the same antecedence. M. Velpeau supposes1 that this accident had determined a slight extravasation of blood in the cellular tissue, and that this extrava- sated blood becomes organized; but facts are yet wanting to show the possibility of such a process, and it is more in accordance with known pathological phenomena to suppose that an effusion of plastic lymph takes place, which becomes penetrated by the vessels of the surrounding parts. Remaining in this situation, they gradually assume the osteo- cartilaginous character. Analogies to this transformation may be found in the cartilagi- nous patches frequently met with on the sur- face of the liver and spleen, in the large osseous masses which form behind the pleura after an old pleuritis, and in the plates of car- tilage which are observed at times on the attached surface of the arachnoid. The car- tilaginous incrustation which covers them furnishes an example of the very curious and interesting law pointed out by Dr. Hodgkin2, that the character of a new product is in- fluenced by the character of surrounding parts. They have been found by many observers in this situation lying beneath the synovial mem- brane. Protruding this membrane before them like a hernial sac, they impinge upon the articular cavity, at first attached by a 1 Anatomic Chirurgicale. 2 Lectures on the Morbid Anatomy of the Mucous and Serous Membranes, vol. i. London, 1836.