CAUSTICS. 719 exciting much local inflammation ; and the pain, although acute at the moment, soon sub- sides. The resulting eschar is white, and rather soft, varying in thickness according as the chloride is more or less altered by alilux of fluids, and separating in from ten to fifteen days. Like arsenious acid and chloride of zinc, it seems endued with the property of modifying the vitality of the part to which it is applied, and of thus meliorating the con- dition of diseased surfaces; hence its utility in lupus exedens. In two instances I succeeded in permanently arresting the ravages of this troublesome and often intractable malady by its means. It suffices merely to touch the ulcerated surface with a camel-hair pencil dipped in the solution ; repeating the contact at short intervals, until a healthy ulcerative process be established. Ablution with cold water directly after, has the effect of deaden- ing the pain, by decomposing any remains of the chloride. It was formerly in great repute among oculists, for removing excrescences from the surface of the eye, staphyloma and cloudiness of the cornea, but has been super- seded by other remedial agents. The cysts of the hydatid polypus have been some- times destroyed with it. MM. Enaux and Ohaussier regard it as a powerful reme- dial agent in the instance of malignant pus- tule, after the vessels of the part have been unloaded by free incisions, and the blood w'iped away. It decomposes and destroys the septic animal poison, and never fails to do good, if used at an early period. A similar plan of treatment may be advantageously- pursued with anthrax. It has been ex- tolled as an efficient application in the in- stance of bites from rabid animals, because it rapidly penetrates into the wound, and any excess of action is easily obviated ; but I am not aware that it possesses any intrinsic su- periority over other caustics in a liquid state. Chloride or Zinc is a most pow-erful escharotic, susceptible of being applied over very extensive surfaces without any risk of injury from absorption, and available wherever the surgeon’s hand can reach. Its operation is purely local; it rarely gives rise to any sur- rounding inflamation or swelling, except it be applied on the face near the eyelids, w'here there is much loose cellular tissue. The depth to which it will corrode the morbid texture can always be estimated beforehand; its action is unfailing ; and the eschar is sepa- rated in most cases from the eighth to the twelfth da}', coming away quite entire in the form of a grayish white mushroom-like sub- stance, and leaving behind a singularly healthy sore, which heals with great rapidity. Mons. Canquoin of Paris, who first introduced it into practice *, is of opinion that it modifies sub- jacent textures ; it assuredly gives rise to healthy granulations and laudable pus. In numerous instances where 1 have applied it 1 Memoirc stir tin nouveau Modcdc Traitemcnt dcs A flections Caneereuses. Paris, 1835. very largely, I have never known it produc- tive of the slightest constitutional disturbance. The pulse remains natural, and the skin cool. The pain accompanying its action is of a vio- lent burning character, persisting with great intensity for the first seven or eight hours : after that time, that is, when the surface is fairly eroded, it becomes supportable, as the patients express it, and continues so during the remainder of the application of the remedy. An important point is, that the pain is in a great measure under the control of opium, a full dose of that drug previously administered seldom failing to give great relief. It has been extensively employed by Mons. Canquoin in the treatment of cancerous and other malignant diseases *. From considerable experience in its use, during the last five years, I am disposed to conclude that it is chiefly efficacious in those so called semi-malignant tubercles and ulcers which make their appear- ance about the face of persons advanced in life, where the skin is involved, but without any depth of new structure ; in the circum- scribed tubercle of the cicatrice following operations for cancer ; in a form of lupus, which I have described 1 2 as the erosive ulcer of the follicles of the skin ; in superficial ulce- ration of the neck of the uterus ; and in naevus maternus. In true carcinoma, affecting glan- dular and fleshy parts, it will only effect temporary melioration. There perhaps the surgeon may be justified in resorting to it, where the use of the knife is impracticable, or the patient refuses to submit to extirpation by incision. Under such circumstances I have frequently found it the means of prolonging the patient’s days and rendering her condition more comfortable. It has, moreover, proved beneficial in chronic ulcers and caries ; and ac- cording to Dr. Hanke, in malignant pustule and syphilitic sores. Chloride of zinc, in order that it may act with efficacy, must be applied in a concen- trated form. In solution it acts merely as an irritant. Being extremely deliquescent it would become rapidly dilute, if some means were not taken to counteract that tendency. Mons. Canquoin employs wheat-flour for this purpose, according to the subjoined formulae: 1. Chloride of zinc one part, wheat-flour two parts. 2. Chloride of zinc one part, wheat- flour three parts. 3. Chloride of zinc one part, wheat-flour four parts. 4. Chloride of zinc one part, chloride of antimony half a part, wheat-flour twro parts and a half. Thirty to forty drops of water are to be added for each ounce of chloride. To prepare the phagedenic paste, the chloride of zinc reduced to tine powder is to be mixed as quickly as possible on a slab with the given quantity of flour. One half of the mixture is immediately to receive its proportion of water, and to be worked up progressively with a spatula, until it forms a homogeneous mass like honey. This 1 Traitemcnt du Cancer. Paris, 1838. 2 London Medical Gazette, vol. xix.