ERYSIPELAS. 153 tinucs to be enormous, even to the amount of a pound and a half or two pounds a day *. In the mean time, the violence of the gene- ral symptoms that had also undergone a mo- mentary remission, reappears, but with other characters : colliquative diarrhoea, profuse sweats, and hectic fever, hurry on exhaustion and plunge the patient into the last stage of adynamia and marasmus. Frequently a more precipitate end awaits him from suppurative phlebitis or purulent resorption, and the sud- den invasion of prolonged and repeated shiver- ings, with a yellowish earthy coloration of the skin, pain in the side, which is often the first symptom that is felt, a quick irregular pulse, a foul loaded tongue, offensive and unconscious excretions, hurried respiration, subdelirium, and death promptly close the scene. It is easily understood how ineffectual are the best combined efforts of nature and of art in this stage of the disease. However, in favourable cases those portions of skin that had been incompletely separated from the subjacent parts, gradually resume their vitality and adhesion, while the gangrened parts are eliminated, and the patient, after having in- curred all the dangers of a long continued suppuration recovers with various mutila- tions. Traumatic Erysipelas.—Erysipelas, whether simple or phlegmonous, is thus called when determined by local injury. From the re- motest antiquity the importance of this variety has been understood. Hippocrates, CEtius, &c. considered it one of the most grievous complications of traumatic lesions. It is generally easy to foresee its development by the change that takes place in the wound and contiguous parts: the suppuration be- comes serous or is entirely suppressed; an acute burning pain is felt in the wound ; its edges become tumefied and assume a violet tint ; the adjoining integument becomes cedematous ; generally the appended ganglions become swollen and tender, and finally the erysipelas declares itself. According to Blondin, lymphitis precedes and always predominates over the inflamma- tion of the cuticle, and it is to this circum- stance that he refers the greater gravity of traumatic erysipelas. In external erysipelas, he says, the morbific principle at first dis- turbs the whole economy, but it is soon thrown outward, localized, and exhausted, whereas in external erysipelas the lymphatic vessels distribute to the whole economy the fluids that have been vitiated by the local phlegma- sia, thus continually furnishing toxic materials that are invading the entire organism1 2. If this theory be not altogether new, this distin- guished surgeon has been the first to have fully expounded and practicalized, as we shall soon see, the therapeutical inductions that emanate from it. Section III.— Erysipelas of the Head. “ Its 1 Dupuytrcn, Op. cit. 3 Journal tics Connais. Med.-Chirurg. Juillet 1837. frequency, the gravity of its symptoms, and the danger attendant upon it, give to this variety a threefold importance It is rarely confined to the scalp : two cases of this kind were observed in 1823 in Dr. Chomel’s wards at the Hotel-Dieu. It probably often exists without being detected : the structure of the scalp being unfavourable for rubefaction, the peculiar redness may be completely wanting. In even somewhat intense erysipelas of the scalp an attentive inspection and a careful comparison of the affected surface with the adjoining healthy integument are necessary to acquire the certitude of its existence, and the accompanying fever, the swelling of the cer- vical ganglions and the consecutive desqua- mation will eventually remove any doubt. When produced by traumatic causes, the eruption generally appears from the fifth to the eighth day after the occurrence of them, and usually begins round the wound ; but it has been seen to begin on the opposite side of the head2. In the aggravated form the disease assumes the phlegmonous character, considerable pain, increased by the slightest touch, and an cedematous tumefaction retain- ing for some time the impression of the finger. It is in erysipelas of the head that disas- trous cerebral complications most frequently ensue, w hich most of the ancients explained by metastasis. Cullen justly opposed this theory 3, as in more than nine cases out of ten the external inflammation, instead of disap- pearing, persists or is even increased on the appearance of the cerebral symptoms. There is more reason in attributing it to the exten- sion of the inflammation to the meningeal coverings by mean3 of the numerous commu- nications that Bichat showed to exist between the external and internal cellular tissues of the head. Piorry has too exclusively assigned the orbit to be the medium of transmission of the inflammation inwardly4. Dr. Malle has justly observed, that there are cases in which the eyelids are severely affected without any cerebral disturbance, and others in which the encephalic organs are grievously compromised, although the eyelids and orbits are not at all affected 5. Darwin explains this disturbance by the sympathy that according to him exists between the scalp and meningeal membranes. In many cases it is purely symptomatic of the existing inflammation, or produced by the same influence that caused the fever and brought on other functional disturbance. There are authentic cases on record of violent cerebral symptoms, sufficient to warrant the conclusion, that an intense meningeal inflam- mation was going forward, having remained unjustified by necroscopic result. Chomel mentions having seen instances of this sort, in 1 Chomel, Op. cit. 2 Marjolin, Lecons Orales. and These de Patissier. 3 First Lines, etc. With notes by P. Reid, M.D. Paragraph 703. * Gazette Med. an. 1833. t. i. no. 42. s Gazette Med. 1833. t. i. no. 46.