315 FRACTURE. attention seeming to have been directed to it by most of the reporters of the cases. “ 2nd. From the fractured ends being widely separate, or from their not being kept closely in contact. The nearer the fractured ends of a bone, in which the injury has been followed by loss of substance, are laid, the easier will consolidation take place, and though want of union after fractures may undoubtedly follow the first of these causes, yet its occurrence in such cases is not constant. The length of bone that may be removed from fractured limbs and regenerated, often even under unfavourable circumstances, or in debilitated subjects, is truly astonishing. In the case of a boy, aetat. 12, who came under my care in the Pennsyl- vania Hospital in 1837, two inches of the tibia were removed, notwithstanding which, he was discharged cured in eleven weeks, with shortening of the limb of but half an inch, the space occupied by the removed bone, being filled by a firm and even callus. Van Swieten (Commentaries, i. p. 514, § 343) relates that he saw a fragment of the tibia, four inches in length, removed after a frac- ture, and replaced at the end of ten months by a firm matter without shortening of the limb. Gooch (Chirurgical Works, ii. p.285) notes a case in which five inches of the tibia were lost, and supplied by solid bone. Mr. Phillips (Lond. Med. Gaz. May, 1840) men- tions a young man in whom five inches had been removed with a similar result. Lam- motte (Traite de Chirurg. ii. p. 148) nar- rates two remarkable instances of a like kind, in one of which six inches of the tibia were removed after the accident, notwithstanding which the fragments were united at the end of eight months without shortening, by a firm callus. Many similar cases are to be found in the records of our science, and all hospital surgeons must have frequently witnessed such, in a greater or less degree. “ The consequence of want of close con- tact between the fractured surfaces is well seen in the patella, olecranon, and os calcis, all of which unite by bone when brought strictly in apposition, but as this in most cases cannot be effected, are found gene- rally united by a fibro-ligamentous matter of greater or less length, according as the frag- ments have been more or less widely sepa- rated. The difficulty of retaining the bones in close contact in oblique fractures, is, in the opinion of many, a very common cause of deficient bony union. To place the frag- ments in contact in these cases, extension and counter-extension is kept up, and often the force exerted is in so great a degree, as to cause suffering to the patient, and is by him, or his attendants, relaxed after the departure of the surgeon. At the following visit, dis- placement is found to exist, and in endea- vouring to avoid deformity, the surgeon extends the limb. Pain ensues, and the appa- ratus is again loosened, and this is repeated until, from the constant slipping of the frag- ments over each other, either the ends of the bones become smoothed off, and as it were cicatrized, with a large and misshapen callus thrown out around each extremity, or else bony matter is not deposited in sufficient quantity to surround the fractured ends, which continue loosely united by means of a fibro-ligamentous matter. “ 3rd. From disease of the fractured extremi- ties. This is particularly the case in compound fractures where necrosis follow's. In these injuries, if the periosteum be torn off from the ends of the bone, these parts at once lose their vitality, and the suppuration kept up around the fragments during exfoliation hin- ders union from occurring till a late period, in addition to which the long confinement necessitated by such a state, exerts a noxious influence upon the constitution of the patient, and by this means still further retards the work of reparation. The case cited by Faivre (Ancien Journ. lxviii. p. 210) was of this kind. The seat of fracture was in the tibia, and had existed for seven months. A portion of the whole cylinder of the bone, one inch and a half in length, was found loose and was removed, and the ends cau- terized with a hot iron ; six months after which a perfect cure had taken place. Schmucker (Verm. Chir. Schrif. quoted from S. Cooper) also relates a case of fractured leg in which necrosis of a portion of the tibia followed, and no callus was formed at the end of eight months, a sinus remaining on each side of the leg. The sinuses, at the end of the time stated, were laid open, and the dead pieces of bone extracted, by which means the impediment to the formation of callus was removed, and the fracture became firmly united in two months. Sometimes, however, the necrosis is only the remote consequence of the injury. Pieces of bone are completely broken off at the time of accident, but still retain their life, and are embedded in the provisional callus, and when the fracture is almost consolidated, these lose their vitality and act as foreign substances, giving rise to inflammation, which destroys in the course of a few days all the solidity of the callus, and postpones for a long time the cure. Mr. Amesbury (Loc. citat. p. 197) mentions his having seen a man with a fractured humerus accompanied with necrosis, in which no union took place, and the arm was amputated. I have myself had occasion to observe a frac- ture of the leg accompanied with caries, in an elderly woman, where union failed to occur, and amputation was performed by request of the patient. Hildanus (Opera, 168, cent. ii. obs. 66), Duverney (Mai. des Os), Petit, Heister (Surgery, trans. 1763, p. 128), and many other authors, have recorded similar facts. Interesting cases in which the development of hydatids in the medullary canal prevented the formation of callus have occurred to Webster (New Eng. Journ. viii. p. 29, 1819), Wickham (Lond. Med. and Phys. Journ. ii. N. S.), and Dupuy- tren (Journ. Hebdom. xii. and ix. 1833) ; and