FRACTURE. 316 Amesbury (Op. citat. p. 197) has seen the same thing follow the existence of abscess in the bone. Mr. Arnott (Lond. Med. Gaz. June, 1840) amputated the limb of a patient in Middlesex Hospital, in consequence of a fracture of the leg which had occurred in the situation of a node, and remained un- united at the end of a year : the fibula in this case was firmly consolidated. The general rule, however, that broken diseased bones will not unite, is not absolute. Dr. Peirson (Remarks on Fractures, p. 38, Boston, 1840) has seen repeated instances of rapid consoli- dation in bones so diseased as to be broken by a very small degree of force. ‘ I had a patient,’ says Sir B. Brodie (London Med. Gaz. xiii. p. 56, 1833), “ in whom some of the bones had nodes upon them, and were much enlarged. A portion of the clavicle was enlarged, and much diseased besides. This man broke the collar bone through the dis- eased part. I bound up his arm, and it united as soon as ordinary fractures.’ In the follow- ing case treated by me at the Pennsylvania Hospital, want of union was evidently kept up by a necrosed state of the inferior fragment, after the removal of which a perfect cure was effected. “ The patient was a healthy farmer from Clearfield county, Pennsylvania, aged thirty, who was received on the 9th of August, 1837. He stated, that on the 29th of May pre- viously, a loaded waggon had passed over his arm and produced a simple fracture, which was dressed by a neighbour, with three board splints fastened tightly by a bandage around the injured part only. On the second day after its application, in consequence of vio- lent pain at the seat of fracture, and great swelling of the hand and fore-arm, a physician was brought to him from a distance of many miles, who removed the dressings. Upon removal, the soft parts at the anterior and inner side of the arm were found to be mor- tified, ar.d in twelve or fourteen days afterward, separated, and left the bone projecting some two or three inches. He suffered during this time from severe inflammation of the arm, accompanied by fever and a profuse discharge of pus ; and after recovering in a measure his strength, he set off on foot for Philadelphia, where he arrived the evening before entering the hospital. The seat of fracture was found to be just below the insertion of the deltoid muscle, and the inferior fragment protruded through an opening only large enough to admit of its passage. The end of this frag- ment was of a yellowish white colour, and deprived of periosteum for the space of an inch or more, and not loose. No bony union had taken place. There was a small dis- charge of pus from the part, and no pain was experienced on handling and examining it. A good deal of hardening existed at the point of fracture, but it appeared to be rather from thickening of the different tissues, than from a deposit of callus. His general health was good. On the 30th of September the pro- jecting portion of the bone was found to be loose, and was removed ; after which the wound soon closed, and union begun to take place. By the 1st of November union was perfectly firm. “ 4th, The interposition of foreign bodies be- tween the fragments has been generally stated among the causes which may retard union. Portions of bone which are completely detached, bullets or other foreign substances, sometimes remain between the extremities, and by keeping up profuse and long continued suppuration, so debilitate the system as to prevent the formation of callus, and give rise to this state. Rossi (These sur les Resec- tions, by M. Roux) notices a case of un-united fracture of the humerus, amputated by him after the resection of the extremities had been unsuccessfully resorted to, in which the cause of non-union w'as found to be a ball contained in the medullary canal a little above the false joint.” Fairly stated, how- ever, the pseudarthrosis can hardly be said to depend permanently on the intervention of foreign bodies. Necrotic portions finally become separated ; an intermediate fragment which retains its vitality is only a source of some delay, as it renders fixed contemplation somewhat more difficult. A foreign body well compressed between the two fractured ends must be an incessant cause of excite- ment. In the absence of pressure the sub- sidence of the primary inflammation may remove the irritating effects of the foreign body, by giving it a covering of dense fibrous structure. A remarkable instance in which this happened after fracture of the femur is reported by M. Vogelvanger (Gaz. Medi- cate, p. 44*5, 1838). Two years after the accident the patient died, and M. V. found a piece of iron thirty-five lines in length, and five in breadth, completely surrounded by a deposit of callus. “ Slips of muscle, or tendinous matter inter- posed between the fragments, has also been stated as one of the causes of want of union. That in some instances these parts are found lying between the fractured extremities there is no doubt, but that it ever proves in itself a cause of non-union, I am not disposed to admit. In all of the instances in which I find it mentioned as having existed, it is also stated that the fracture has been oblique, and the fragments more or less separated from each other. When this state of things exists, any soft parts in the neighbourhood of the fracture are necessarily forced into the space between the bones, and so remain until a pro- per position is given to the limb and the frag- ments perfectly reduced ; and where from the size of the intervening part this cannot be at once done, the mere continued pressure of the ends of the bone would in a very short time, if properly adjusted, cither cause its absorption, or else cause it to take on the ossi- fic action. The interposition of any soft parts between the ends of a fractured bone is justly regarded by Mr. Key (Loud. Med.-Gaz. iv.