S25 FRACTURE. simply keeping the parts in a more natural relation must tend to promote the compres- sion and absorption of some parts, and inflam- mation and thickening in others. These results would be increased by pressure. The observer may now understand also, that in a false joint with small deformity, partial ab- sorption and thickening may be excited by keeping up some degree of angular displace- ment ; the trial of which would at least do no harm until ossification is about to effect con- solidation. The employment of iodine has been declared to be a successful means of curing a false joint; and it seems possible, that by assist- ing the general health, it might assist a case of tardy union. In the like manner, the use of mercury, as an internal remedy in a case of false joint, seems but little likely to excite ossific inflammation, or to prove advantageous by causing absorption. We can scarcely sup- pose any method by which a beneficial ope- ration can arise from it, unless it may be by the improvement of the general health. This method of cure for disunited frac- tures was employed successfully in 1830, by Sir Stephen Hammick. Speaking of the cure of these fractures, this author says, “ Mer- cury will frequently be required by pa- tients who never had any syphilitic taint, not only to act as an alterative, but even it will be necessary to push it to a considerable extent before union of a fractured bone will take place.” (Lectures on Fracts., Amps., &c. p. 118.) Dr. Colles, of Dublin, has also seen cures take place in these cases by the admi- nistration of mercury ; and in an instance that he witnessed at Guy’s Hospital, in 1836, under Mr. B. Cooper, which had proved rebellious to other modes of treatment, (seton, frictions, and the immovable apparatus,) he suggested its trial to that gentleman. The following is an account of the case, as related by Mr. Bransby B. Cooper :— “ Eliz. Gould *, aged 28, in August, 1835, broke her left humerus, about the junction of the upper with the middle third, through a fall from a cart. She was in good health at the time, and is naturally of a strong constitution. She immediately applied for professional ad- vice, had splints applied, and, from her account, was treated in the usual manner. In about eight weeks the surgeon discovered that union had not taken place; he replaced the splints therefore more firmly than before, and bound the arm to the side, to prevent motion. This apparatus was worn for a month without being removed, at the expiration of which period the fracture was found still ununited. The apparatus was now re-applied, with the addi- tion of an iron splint bent at an acute angle, and extending from the outer side of the humerus to the wrist. This was worn for another month, but with no better effect. A bandage was then tightly bound round the arm, and a wooden splint applied over it, com- 1 Vide Guy’s Hospital Reports, No. V. pressed to the utmost the patient could bear, for two months, when still it was found that no union had taken place. “ On March 9th, 1836, she was admitted under my care into Guy’s Hospital, when, upon examination, I found the two fractured extremities of the humerus in juxta-position, but without union, or any adventitious forma- tion in the surrounding cellular membrane ; the two portions of bone moved readily upon each other, and without producing anything approaching to the sensation of crepitus, giving rather the impression of an amphiarthrodial joint in motion. Impressed with the convic- tion that all mechanical means had been judi- ciously employed, I gave up all hopes of producing union by any further use of such means, and proposed a seton, which was im- mediately consented to by the patient, and was inserted between the extremities of the bone, about March 23rd. It was worn ten weeks, producing but very little constitutional irritation, or local effect; for on removing it, no ossific union had taken place. “ A bandage dipped in a composition of egg and flour was then firmly applied, and worn for six weeks. It was so applied (en- closing both the elbow and shoulder) as forcibly to press both extremities of the bone against each other, but without producing the desired effect. Plaster of Paris was next used as a means of maintaining perfect appo- sition and rest; it was w'orn a month, but when chiselled off, the arm was in statu quo. “ About this period Dr. Colles of Dublin went round with me, and said he had known such cases cured by the administration of mercury, continued until it produced ptyalism. This plan was adopted, but at the same time a leathern padded girth, furnished with several straps and buckles, was forcibly applied around the arm. In four days the mercury was obliged to be discontinued, from the violent effect on her mouth, but the girth was continued to be worn a month, when upon its removal the arm was found united. She remained, however, in the hospital two months longer to recruit her health, when she was discharged cured. “ Three months after this she was again admitted, from the fracture having been re- produced by a violent blow ; when upon exa- mination all the usual phenomena of common fracture presented themselves. The same girth was applied, and (without the use of mercury) the bone ‘united at the usual pe- riod.” The following are the heads of a remarkable case that occurred under the care of Mr. Adams about a year and a half ago. John Neile, aged 26, was admitted into the Rich- mond Hospital five months after having broken the femur near the trochanters, by a fall from horseback. He was treated at home for some days for contusion, and had been in two hospitals before applying for admission at the Richmond. At the time of his ad- mission the femur was quite moveable at the