267 ANEURISM. interstice can be rendered discernible to the touch, and even to the sight, by moving the foot so as to render the tendon of the tibialis prominent; in others, however, it is faint, and will require some pains to distinguish it. Fig. 89. No. 1. Ligature of the anterior tibial artery at the superior-third of the leg. The skin and strong fascia being di- vided, the tibialis anticus is held against the outer side of the tibia by the retractor (f), the exten- sors of the toes are held back by the blunt hook, d. a, the tibial artery; b, the nerve; c, the satellite veins at each side of the artery ; e e, the ligature passed beneath it. No. 2. Ligature of the an- terior tibial artery at the inferior-third of the leg. The same parts having been divided, the tendon of the tibialis anticus is held towardsthe tibia, and those of the extensors backwards by two hooks (a and f); the anterior tibial nerve (c), lies nuiv to the tibial side of the artery (a) ; b, the satel- lite veins entwining upon it in front; e e, the liga- ture passed under the vessel. Fig. 89. I The patient is placed on his back, the leg and foot extended. As in all cases, where it is necessary to separate muscles, the surgeon should have the power of extending or relax- ing them at pleasure. A vertical incision is made, extending three inches, or more if the patient be strongly built ; the skin and cellu- lar tissue are thus divided ; the two muscles, the tibialis and extensor communis, if above, the tibialis and extensor pollicis if below, are then separated with the finger, or a blunt knife ; or if any difficulty should be antici- pated of falling on the muscular interstice, the incision may be made with a slight obliquity of direction. The artery with its accompanying veins is thus brought into view ; the tibial nerve lying to the outside. When the vessel is cut down upon at the lower part of the leg, the nerve will be found at the inside, as it crosses the artery obliquely in its course from above downwards. If the depth be con- siderable, the isolation of the vessel will be facilitated by relaxing the muscles, and this facility will be still further increased by di- viding transversely the strong aponeurosis which binds them down. The muscles should be relaxed as much as possible and held well asunder, otherwise the carrying the ligature under the artery will be found a matter of no small difficulty. In the lower part of the leg, the vessel lying in the midst of tendons, is much more accessible, and may be found by making an incision twro inches in length, along the external edge of the tendon of the tibialis : the artery is soon discovered by se- parating the tendons which conceal it. Peroneal artery : — The French surgeons describe the mode of cutting down on this artery. Its course from its origin from the outer side of the posterior tibial artery, at about an inch below the separation of the vessel from the popliteal is downwards towards the lower part of the fibula. Though at first of considerable size, it soon becomes so small as to fall beneath the size that would require the application of a ligature. If an aneurism were developed in the upper portion of this artery, most surgeons in this country would prefer placing a ligature at once, either on the popliteal or the femoral. Fig. 90. Fig. 90. The muscles of the calf are retracted inwards, the flexor longus"outwards; the vein and artery lie close together, the former to the outside, a, the pero- neal artery raised on an aneurism needle (d); c, the ligature; b, the vein; e e, the retractors. The mode in which the ligature may be applied on the peroneal itself is described as follows : the artery is to be sought for about the middle of the leg, or a little lower, at the point where the soleus parts from the gastroc- nemii. The incision should be two inches long, extending from the back of the fibula, to the external edge of the tendo achillis. The skin and aponeurosis being divided, the artery will be found on the inside of the flexor longus pollicis pedis. Mr. Guthrie, however, in a case of traumatic aneurism of the pero- neal artery, preferred the method already mentioned, of cutting through the thickness of the calf of the leg, to placing his ligature on the femoral artery. The vessel may, it is true, be reached by either of these methods ; but by that here described, the extent of in- cision will not be half so great. For aneurisms of these several vessels, par- ticularly if occurring near their origin, the popliteal artery itself may be cut down upon and tied. This artery varies much in size, being in- fluenced, in great measure, by the magnitude of the anterior tibial. Sometimes it does not