367 ARM, BEND OF. bercle of the radius, and not, as many anato- mists assert, upon that process itself. The fibres of this muscle end very variously in its tendon, which explains the diversity of forms in this part. Sometimes the lower border of the biceps is of a convex form, but more fre- quently it is more of a triangular one, the middle muscular fibres extending lower down than the lateral ones; the tendon begins higher up the arm on the outer than on the inner side ; the outer side of this tendon is always regular in its form and presents a smooth rounded edge. At the inner side, on the contrary, great diversity is observed ; thus, sometimes the inner fibres are inserted into the common tendon ; at other times they end by a number of small and separate ten- dons, which are inserted into the aponeurosis of the fore-arm; when this disposition occurs, the tendinous expansion given off by the biceps tendon, is generally slight, or does not even exist ; in which case, there is no semi- lunar fascia, such as is described and delinea- ted by Cowper, Camper, Langenbeck, Tiede- mann, Cloquet, Bell, Blandin, Velpeau, Gcrdy, Bourgery, Quain, &c. The first good de- scription, and tolerably correct drawing of this tendinous expansion, was given by W. Cow- per', who called it “ fascia tendinosa,” and did not restrict its use to the “ more advantageous elevation or bending of the cubit (fore-arm), but it also corroborates (strengthens) the muscles in those strenuous actions they are necessarily em- ployed in” This fascia lies immediately over the brachial artery, and requires careful divi- sion when that vessel is to be laid bare. This expansion is united to, and in a great measure forms, the common sheath of the muscles in front of this region ; it also principally consti- tutes the aponeurotic opening for the “ vena communicans,” which is somewhat enlarged by the action of the biceps muscle, which, by means of the fascia tendinosa, is a “ tensor ” of the aponeurosis of the fore-arm. This ten- dinous fascia is generally inserted (or given off) obliquely across the tendon of the biceps muscle towards its outer edge. The biceps tendon, after receiving or giving off this apo- neurotic fascia, proceeds downwards through the triangular space left between the inner and outer muscular eminences (pronator and supinator muscles) ; in this course, it is t wisted upon itself, and, like the tendo Achillis, be- comes broader before it inserts itself into the posterior border of the tubercle of the radius : many anatomists make this tendon end in the tubercle itself; but this is incorrect. The lower part of this tendon is likewise provided with a bursa mucosa, which enables it to move smoothly over the tubercle of the radius ; this synovial sac is formed by a very fine and transparent membrane, covered by cellular and adipose tissue; it extends more than an inch up the tendon and is inserted along its radial side in an oblique and waving line; when blown into, it rises up between the biceps tendon and the lower part of the bra- chialis anticus muscle; in this state it is in contact with the brachial artery; it also raises up the superior part of the inner side of the supinator R. brevis muscle. It may at first appear singular, why this “ bursa” should ex- tend so high up the tendon; it is evident, however, that this lubricating surface is not wanted during flexion of the fore-arm, in which motion the biceps tendon draws the radius directly upwards, and is not in contact with the bony eminence ; but, on the con- trary, when pronation takes place, then, the biceps tendon presses against the tubercle, and requires the bursa to promote the easy rolling motion of the tendon over that hard surface. This bursa, like all others, may be- come distended with fluid, and might then present some difficulty of diagnosis, especially if the pulsations of the brachial artery were communicated to it. The biceps tendon be- comes prominent during half-flexion of the fore-arm ; the fingers may then be almost made to meet underneath it; in certain defor- mities produced by its violent contraction it might easily be divided by a simple incision, as is done in operating upon the tendo Achillis. In persons whose elbow-joints have been ex- cised, the biceps tendon is extremely promi- nent ; it is, of course, highly important in this operation, to spare, if possible, the inser- tion of this tendon, which is so valuable in all manual labour, and by whose assistance patients thus operated upon have been able to lift heavy weights, and pursue various avocations, &c. For the better comprehension of the mus- cular parts of this region, we proceed at once to the description of the brachial muscle, leaving the vessels which lie upon it to a future period, on account of these two muscles acting together in various ways and producing very similar effects. The brachialis anticus (brachiceus internus, humero-cubitalis) is a strong muscle which fills up the hollow left between the two condyles of the arm-bone, and partly covers the con- dyles themselves ; the lower extremity of this muscle is of an irregular shape, adapted to its situation, which is uneven. Its outer side is the strongest where a thick tendinous band lies upon the side of the head of the radius ; the back or deepest part of this muscle is pretty closely attached to the capsular liga- ment of the joint, as well as to the coronoid process of the ulna, by means of small tendin- ous fibres ; hence, probably, the very common error of describing “ the brachialis tendon as inserted into the coronoid process of the ulna,” (Sir A. Cooper, B. Cooper, Jones Quain,) whereas, this tendon is finally inserted into an oblique line below that process, and across the front part of the cubitus, exactly opposite the tubercle of the radius. This muscle generally sends off an aponeurotic expansion which spreads itself over the supinator longus, and thus strengthens the common sheath of the fore-arm ; there are sometimes some tendin- 1 Myotomia Reformats, p. 74.