COMPRESSION. 804 organs ; and thus regulate the growth of those organs, by preventing the ingress of more blood into them for their nutrition than is suited to their respective sizes and offices. It would be readily seen how inordinate and irregular might be the growth of these organs, were it not for the mechanical resistance set up by the firm, steady, and yet unyielding compression exercised around them by the inelastic serous membranes which invest them. This will be made familiar to us by perceiving the painful resistance offered to excited ves- sels of an organ under inflammation. The most familiar example of this, because frequently under our observation, is an inflamed testicle. While the organ, inflamed for the first time, expands, the tunica albuginea resists, so that, as soon as the activity of the excited blood- vessels is checked, the correcting efforts of this membrane are exerted to restore the organ to its natural size. A testicle is seldom permanently enlarged by a first attack of se- vere inflammation ; but it often becomes so under the gradual effects of its excited ves- sels, which as gradually distend the investing membrane. It is enough, however, to know that such a wholesome check is offered by the mechanical support of these natural bandages. The fasciae investing the large muscles of the body exercise a similar power, not only to control the inordinate action of the muscles, but to prevent their irregular and inordinate enlargement. From such observations we are led to employ the same means to afford an artificial aid to parts which have lost their natural support. In this way bandages in their different forms are employed by the surgeon to support parts in their natural situation ; in descent of the abdominal contents, for example, trusses in hernia and prolapsus recti, pessaries in prolap- sus uteri, &c. Compression, indeed, is continually em- ployed in surgery, to effect the union or retention of parts in their natural situations, to arrest haemorrhage, to prevent or disperse oedema, to bring the sides of cavities from which fluids or solids have been removed into contact or proximity, to oppose the develop- ment of tumours, to produce the destruction or absorption of serous cysts, to keep in con- tact the broken extremities of bones in frac- tures, and to control the actions of the muscles by which they might again be displaced, to suspend the circulation temporarily in large vessels, and to dull the nervous sensibility of parts in order to render operations less pain- ful. As these applications of compression, however, will be considered elsewhere, my object for the present will be simply to show what are its effects, in such a degree only as it affords support, on the tissues of the body under local disease, and under what circumstances it may be usefully employed. In chronic inflammation :—The condition of a part long under inflammation is simply that of an over-distended, therefore weakened, state of its blood-vessels. The effects of which are continued deposit from these ves- sels, and subsequently purulent formations, and ulceration, or absorption. To this weak- ened condition of vessels, and with a view' to promote the uninterrupted course of the cir- culation, compression, in the form of support, is especially applicable. The most simple state of distended vessels, though not actually an inflamed condition, is the varicose vein. Here the coats of the veins are yielding to the column of blood within them ; the blood is thereby delayed in circu- lation towards the heart, and consequences follow which attend a distended state of vessels begun in inflammation, deposit, and ulceration. If the veins of the leg are enlarged, the leg sw'ells and ulcers form. It is in such a case that compression, sufficient only to give support to the weakened veins, thereby to diminish the quantity of blood in them and aid its re- turn to the heart, is peculiarly useful. The varicose ulcer, as it is termed, in this its simple state, attended with swelling from effusion in the cellular membrane of the limb, is for the most part cured by ju- dicious bandaging. The ulcer needs only protection,—the limb and its veins support. The bandage mostly employed, and the most beneficial, is the adhesive strap. In its use, however, the greatest care is required that no more is done by it than is necessary to support the parts ; if it be used too tightly it will cause inflammation ; if irregularly it will produce ulceration of itself; and if partially applied it will irritate rather than soothe the sore. In no other hands has this form of bandage been more efficiently employed than by the late Mr. Baynton, of Bristol, whose plan and principles deserve the attention of surgeons. In chronic inflammation, compression in this way is most successfully employed : ac- cording to the extent to which the inflam- mation has been carried, it may be advis- able, or otherwise, to call in other means to its aid. It is quite manifest that the cures related which have occurred under the band- aging of Mr. Scot, are more attributable to the accuracy with which the compression is exerted, than to the specific operation of the mercurial which is combined in his plan. We know, at least, that the latter will accomplish very little without the former. Pressure will also have the effect of in- creasing the growth of parts to which it is applied. In this way, it seems to act as an irritant; the principle governing its use as a support to the blood-vessels being, as it were, exaggerated. The compression, under these circumstances, may be too great, too partial, or too inconstant. In such cases de- posit is the result. The most familiar ex- ample of this, is the growth of the cutis to produce what is called a corn,—the thicken- ing of the hernial sac. In these cases the pressure for a time is great, but it is occa- sionally withdrawn. A knowledge of this effect can only be made practically useful by avoiding it. Thus, in the imperfect attempts