274 ANEURISM. tumour has been observed to pulsate anew at some interval after the ligature had been ap- plied. The instances mentioned by Pott and Guerin, in which the popliteal tumour con- tinued to increase after the ligature had been applied, do not, as was then supposed, prove that the ligature had not been placed on the vessel. We now know that the recurrent circulation may be sufficient to renew the pulsation of the tumour ; but compression and rest, in these cases, will in general be found successful. Monteith of Glasgow mentions a curious case of aneurism in which two months after the femoral artery had been tied the tumour had become much reduced in bulk, and all but consolidated ; in this case however the pulsations returned, and the tumour began again to increase. It was checked and ulti- mately cured, without a second ligature, by the means just mentioned. Fig. 93. Fig. 93 shows the operations for tying the external iliac artery and the femoral artery at three different ■points. No. 1. The lower edge of the abdominal muscles having been divided, and the peritoneum detached from the iliac fossa, both are raised upon the fingers of the assistant, a, the external iliac artery; b, the vein tying to its inside ; c c, the ligature passed under the artery ; d d, the bag of the peritoneum; e, branches of the lumbar nerves, crossing the iliac fossa on the outside of the. artery. No. ”2. The femoral artery, just beloiv Poupart's liga- ment, is seen giving origin to the circumflex, a, the artery; b, the vein to its inside, and in the same sheath ; c c, the ligature passed under the artery ; d, a blunt hook retracting the outer lip of the wound. No. 3. Ligature of the femoral artery at the place of election, close upon the point where it passes under the internal border of the sarlorius. a, the artery: b, the vein; c c, the ligature passed beneath the. ar- tery ; f a blunt hook, retracting the outer lip of the wound. The sheath of the femoral vessels is laid completely open, to show the relative position of the. artery, vein, and nerve. The same extent of opening would be not only unnecessary, but improper in the operation for tying the vessel. No. 4. The femoral artery is here exposed at the point where it is about to become the popliteal. The exter- nal edge of the sartorius is carried to the inside of the thigh, the vastus internus to the outside, a, the ar- tery ; b, the vein; c c, the ligature passed beneath the artery; d d, the sheath of the vessels fully laid open ; e, and f a blunt hook and retractor. EXTERNAL ILIAC ARTERY. The common or primitive iliac arteries from their origin at the bifurcation of the aorta, give rise to several important vessels, which supply the internal and external parts of the pelvis, and the lower extremities. The common iliac extends in direction downwards and outwards from the middle of the fourth lumbar vertebra to the sacro-iliac symphysis ; at this point, it divides into the internal iliac which descends at once into the pelvis, and the external iliac, which, coursing along the brim of the pelvis, passes outwards and downwards under the middle of Poupart’s ligament, there to become the femoral artery. In this course it runs parallel to the internal border of the psoas muscle, having the iliac vein to its inside and somewhat behind it. The anterior crural nerve lies to its outside, and separated from it by the psoas muscle ; another small nerve lies either on the front of the artery, or between it and the vein. It is bound down in its situ- ation by the iliac fascia which forms its sheath, and the lymphatics ascending under Poupart’s ligament entwine themselves on its surface. It is crossed by the spermatic vessels, and the whole is covered by the peritoneum, which is united to these several parts by loose cellular tissue. In passing under Poupart’s ligament, it gives off the epigastric and circumflex arteries. Ligature of the external Iliac Artery :—This operation was first performed by Abernethy in 1 796, on a patient who had had two aneu- risms in succession, the first of the popliteal artery, which was cured by the Hunterian operation ; the second of the femoral artery of the opposite limb, high up in the groin. Abernethy first placed a ligature on Brasdor’s plan, on the artery below the tumour. Hae- morrhage came on the fifteenth day after the operation, and as a last resource, he immedi- ately resolved to tie the iliac artery itself. He accordingly made an incision in the abdo- minal integuments, and in the line of the artery, of about three inches in length. The aponeu- rosis of the external oblique was thus laid bare, 11