344 ANUS. afforded by cutting across some of the fibres in the manner previously described. Imperforation.—The congenital defects of the rectum which might be ranged under this head are various. The intestine may be en- tirely wanting, and its place supplied by fatty cellular tissue, the colon above it ending in a pouch : it may terminate in the bladder of the male, or the vagina of the female child : it may be perfect but blocked up by the integu- ment ; and, in all these cases, there is no ex- ternal appearance of the anus. The intestine may degenerate into a cord, and at the lower part, re-assume its cylindrical shape, thus forming a pouch towards the anus ; it may be interrupted in its course by a thickening of its coats, its sides approximat- ing as though it were tied with a tape; or it may be interrupted by a membranous or a rigid septum, the diameter of the canal at that part not being diminished; and, in these cases, the anus appears to be perfect. The intestine and the anus may be perfect, but, by the extension of the skin from one side to the other, the aperture may be want- ing. Anus closed by the skin.—A carefid accou- cheur would discover this defect at the time of birth, and by a timely and trifling opera- tion, save the child the suffering it must undergo by delay. The anus appears, on a superficial examina- tion, to be formed naturally ; there are the corrugated line and the plicated radii passing from it; but on separating the nates a pale blue line is observed, its colour being pro- duced by the meconium above it ; and, press- ing with the finger, a cavity is readily de- tected beyond it. This skin or membrane sometimes is not attached to the anterior part of the margin of the anus, but advances forwards on the perineum, forming a short canal through which the meconium may be squeezed in drops. Slitting this membrane with a sharp pointed instrument, and taking hold of the divided por- tions with a pair of forceps, that they may be cut away from their attachments with a pair of scissors, is all that is to be done in an ope- ration which can never fail when it is timely performed. Anus closed by integument.—In this defect the usual signs of the anus are wanting, and the surgeon will have to guard his reputation by not too confidently prognosticating the favourable issue of an operation. It may be a case in which there is no rectum, or, if one exist, in which it opens into the bladder or vagina, according as it may be a male or fe- male child ; though that fact would soon be set at rest by the transmission of meconium from the organ. As so much uncertainty prevails, it is neces- sary to be guarded, both in our opinion and practice ; for if it should turn out that there is no rectum, or that it terminates midway in a pouch, it will be only remediable by a pro- ceeding, to be hereafter described. But there are sometimes grounds sufficient to justify a favourable or an unfavourable prognosis. If the integuments on the part where the anus should be, be a plane even surface, and, more especially, if it should bulge downwards from the os coccygis—if one but- tock should insensibly glide into the other by an undulating surface,—if there be no at- tempt at a corrugation of the skin, and if a sensation of solidity be communicated to the touch, it is highly probable that the rectum terminates at some distance within the pel- vis : but if, on the other hand, there shall be a fair cleft between the buttocks; if the integuments be well drawn up so as to form a sulcated line (bearing in mind that in well-formed children it is less marked than in the adult); if there be any appearance of an attempt to establish folds of the skin; and, more than all the rest, if a digital examination (that tactus eruditus which may be conceived but cannot be expressed) should satisfy the surgeon of the existence of a cavity, the pre- sumption is, that the rectum will be found at no great distance within the pelvis. The operation consists in making a crucial incision through the integuments (the flaps of which should be turned aside) and in care- fully pursuing the dissection in the direction of the rectum. The finger should be intro- duced into the wound after each application of the knite, with a view to ascertain the situation of the gut. This may be ascertained immediately after the operation has com- menced, when the gut is near, for the rectum is sure to be distended with meconium, and, therefore, easy to be appreciated by the touch. Whether the surgeon will pause when he has unsuccessfully attained the situation where the sphincters ought to be, or whether he will continue his dissection in the direction of the sacrum, as he may be encouraged to do from the success obtained by others, will be a question for his own judgment to determine ; but this rule ought always to be abided by, never to plunge a trochar, or any other piercing instrument, at hazard, but always to use the knife, carefully exploring the way un- til the distended rectum can be felt. Anus perfect, but the canal interrupted.— Here, again, it may be an affection of a very serious character, or one remediable by the means already described. An examination with the little finger will furnish reasons for presuming it to be one or the other. When the obstruction is caused by a mem- branous septum, it will project by reason of the meconium accumulated above it pressing it downwards, but it will recede when the child cries. If the nail be rather long, it will readily rupture it by working against it in the intervals ot the fits of crying; or a pair of short-bladed scissors may be introduced along the finger, their points passed through the membrane, their handles gently separated, and the membrane may thus be sufficiently torn for the immediate purposes of the child. It will be necessary to introduce daily a