ASPHYXIA. 439 “ But, notwithstanding the decisive nature of the last experiment, conceiving that it might be possible that the pressure upon the nerves of the neck might have an influence in killing the animal suddenly, I made the experiments which I have detailed. I first tied the pneumo-gastric nerves, and found that the animal lived about twelve hours, although it died on the instant when the carotid and vertebral arteries were tied : the lungs were also loaded with blood1, and twice as heavy as the healthy lung: it appears, therefore, that the change of the blood is either directly or indirectly under the influence of the par vagum. In this experiment it is also to be observed, as a point of much importance, that the blood in the carotid arteries is found of a venous character, and dark blood circulates in the animal for some time before it dies, the blood being less arterial as the time elapses from the application of the ligature : yet the heart continues to beat; for when the artery is opened, the blood flow's per saltum. The blood also flows of a dark colour when the carotid is opened after the phrenic has been tied ; but the lungs are not in that case found loaded with blood ; but possessing their ordi- nary weight and appearance. In this experi- ment there was also a remarkable diminution of animal heat. Is this to be attributed to a cessation of that pulmonary process, accom- panied by the evolution of heat wherein venous is converted into arterial blood? or does it arise from a want of that supply of arterial blood to the nerves, from which they derive a capability of evolving caloric ? or shall we not approach still nearer to the truth, in supposing that both these causes of a high temperature are suspended at the same time ; and that there is, consequently, a double rea- son for the gradual departure of the animal heat observed in this experiment. “ The oesophagus contained food, in some instances in which the animal had eaten after the experiment, from its muscles being para- lyzed ; and the stomach was full, from the arrest of the digestive function. “ This nerve, then, is most important; 1st, in assisting in the support of the function of the lungs, by contributing to the changing of the venous into arterial blood ; 2dly, in being necessary to the act of swallowing ; 3rdly, in being very essential to the digestive process 2. “ The pair of nerves upon which I next applied ligatures were the phrenics. As soon as these were tied, the most determined asthma was produced ; breathing proceeded by means of the intercostal muscles ; and the chest was elevated to the utmost by them ; and in expiration the chest was as remarkably drawn in. The animals did not live an hour ; but they did not die suddenly, as they do from pressure on the carotid and vertebral arteries. 1 Sir Benjamin Brodie lias mentioned this state of the lungs. 2 A ligature on one nerve only docs not destroy. The lungs appeared healthy : but the chest contained more than its natural exhalation. “ When the grand - sympathetic was tied, little effect was produced ; the animal’s heart appeared to beat more quickly and feebly than usual ; but of this circumstance I cannot be positively certain, on account of the natural quickness of its action. The animal was kept seven days, and one nerve was ulcerated through, and the other nearly so, at the situa- tion of the ligatures. The suppurative pro- cess was extensively set up around the liga- tures. No particular alteration of any organ was observed on examination. Another animal still lives, in which the sympathetic was tied nearly a month ago. “ Lastly, I tied all three nerves on each side, the pneumo-gastric, phrenic, and grand-sym- pathetic ; and the animal lived little more than a quarter of an hour, and died of dyspnoea. The sudden death, then, that takes place from pressure at the sides of the neck, must not be attributed to an injury to the nerves, but it is owing to the impediment to the due supply of blood to the grand centre of nervous influence Treatment.—“In addition to the employment of the agents recommended under the head of general treatment of asphyxia, the following precautions should be observed in the treat- ment of asphyxia from suspension. The liga- ture should be removed from the neck imme- diately, and the head and shoulders should be raised considerable higher than the trunk. The body should be stripped of its clothing, and its surface exposed as freely as possible to the air. As the victim has not been plunged into a cold medium, it is not necessary to apply a temperature higher than 68° Fahren- heit. Frictions should be performed, and artificial respiration resorted to as soon as pos- sible, and with a due observance of caution. Bleeding is called for in the treatment of this variety of asphyxia ; the external jugular vein should be opened, and a quantity of blood ab- stracted with the view of relieving the vessels of the scalp, and of the integuments of the face and neck, of their turgescence, as well as of equalizing the disturbed circulation wfithin the cranium. Great caution, however, should be observed in its employment, not to take more blood than is absolutely necessary for these purposes, lest the powers of life should be weakened. After recovery blood may be, and often is required to be taken in a much larger quantity, than previously to the re- newal of respiration.”—Royal Humane So- ciety’s Report. Amongst the gases which produce death, when present, some act as poisons, others act a negative part by their presence excluding 1 In a conversation which I lately had with Sir A. Cooper, I find he considers that the nervous power, and indeed all the powers of the body are supported by the presence of arterial blood; and that the nervous system is to be regarded as secondary to the arterial.