536 BURNS AND SCALDS. Heister’s classification. With certain modi- fications it is the one at present generally re- ceived by the German surgeons. Boyer, after the example of Fabricius Hil- danus, reduced them to three. In the first degree, the effect is confined to a lively irritation, altering the condition of the fluids in the part, whence results an inflamma- tion of an erysipelatous character. If the heat applied be more intense, there is irri- tation, followed by the formation of phlyc- tenae, causing a denudation of the nervous papillae of the cutis vera ; thence succeeds superficial ulceration, analogous to that pro- duced by the application of a blister. This is the second degree of burn. Finally, if the action be still more powerful and prolonged, it disorganizes the part, which, according to the nature of the efficient cause, is either covered with an encrusted eschar, or, remain- ing moist, assumes a greyish yellow aspect. In one or other case vitality ceases '. M. Maijolin, the present professor of patho- logic externe at Paris, looking only to the na- ture of the lesions occasioned by burns, divides them into two orders,—inflammation, and immediate disorganization. It remained, however, for the observant genius of Dupuytren, dissatisfied with pre- existing arrangements, to contrive and substi- tute in their stead one no less comprehensive than exact; pointing out those shades of dis- organization in the skin and subjacent parts, which the preceding systematises had con- founded together in their third and fourth orders. The several gradations of patholo- gical change, it professes to establish, are in strict conformity to the extent of alteration the vital tissues have undergone. Each degree is distinguished by phenomena peculiar to it- self ; and these, it is of importance to bear in mind, not merely as relates to practice, but also in reference to the prognosis to be de- duced, depending on the train of concomitant accidents, and the deformities and mutilations which may be left behind. The arrangement we shall adopt, is that of Dupuytren, modified, however, in some re- spects, agreeably to the recent discoveries of physiologists concerning the structure and functions of the skin. It embraces six degrees. In the first degree, which is the erythe- matous, there is no disorganization of texture, but a modification in the vital properties of the part, inducing simple redness of the skin, due to the transparency of the horny texture ; for it is never seen red, unless when the epidermis is very thin. This rubefaction dis- appears momentarily with pressure, whereby the pain is augmented. It is to be distin- guished from erysipelas by its mode of de- velopment and sequelae. In the second degree, there is an evident change in the organic relations of the part. The lymphatic vessels of the sudoriferous 1 Boyer, Traite des Mai. Clnr. canals, and of the excretory tubes of the mucus, are ruptured, albuminous serum exudes, which by accumulation, elevates the entire horny tissue, or epidermis. In other words, the increased heat attracts the blood to the erectile tissue of the derma, which frees itself thereof by an abundant secretion ; and thus determines the formation of phlyctenae. In the third degree of burn, the whole epidermic layers are destroyed, including the diflluent horny matter, or corpus muco- sum of Malpighi, together with the papillae, or conoid eminences formed by the nervous ex- tremities, and enveloped by the deep epider- mic layers. The fourth degree comprehends the de- struction of the epidermic layers, the fibro- vascular tissue constituting the derma, and a portion, more or less, of the immediately sub- jacent cellular texture. The fifth degree comprises, in addition, the different strata indicated in the preceding to a great number of parts lying deeper, such as aponeuroses, muscles, tendons, nerves, veins, arteries, down to the very bones. Lastly, the sixth degree is that in which there is complete combustion of a part, or of the totality of a member or organ. Of this, local death is the immediate and necessary consequence. We shall now consider these respective orders more at large. The first or erythematous degree, is often so very slight, as scarcely to deserve the name of injury. It is commonly induced by the emanations of radiant heat, by hot air, water, or vapour, or by the extrication of caloric from solids, at an elevated temperature. Our organs furnish us, in most cases, with very delicate tests of the increase or diminu- tion of heat. Hence the skin subjected to an undue degree of heat, becomes speedily hot and red. The erubescence thus produced, va- ries in intensity from a pale rosy tint to a deep violet; it is not circumscribed; and disap- pears, as we said above, under pressure of the finger. The capillaries, or rather the inter- mediate vessels 1 of the derma are injected, as shown by slight concomitant intumescence. There is a smarting or burning sensation re- ferred to the spot, which induces the patient to seek instinctively the impression of cold. In general the pain and erythema, are coeta- neous. However there often remain a mor- bid sensibility and uneasiness in the part for days after the redness has subsided. The duration of these symptoms, is from a few hours to two or three days. There some- times follows a desquamation of the epidermis, in the form of furfuraceous scales. In the milder forms this seldom occurs, the capillary system being restored to its normal condition, without leaving any trace behind. It is essential to ascertain the efficient cause, ere we can determine the precise dc- 1 Beries, Anatomie ilcr Mikroskopischen Gcbilde. Wien, 1836. p. 81.