EAR, AND HEARING, DISEASES OF, 35 leeches to be applied around the right ear, and the tartar-emetic ointment, as ordered on the 23rd June, to be continued. Sweet oil to be dropped into the ear, which is to be sy- ringed with lukewarm water at bed-time. Monday, 9th.—The leeches have been ap- plied, and the cheek is swollen in conse- quence. No return of ear-ache, but the hear- ing distance has fallen on the right side to three inches, and on the left side to eight inches. Introduced a catheter into the Eustachian tube of the left side without causing any pain, and applied the air-douche. The air entered with a rushing sound at first, and on increas- ing the force of the stream, with a gurgling sound. After this, the hearing distance was, on the left side, ten inches. Friday, 13th.—No longer any tenderness of the ear. Hearing distance on the right side fourteen inches; on the left side, one foot nine inches. Applied the air-douche to the right ear, after which the hearing distance was raised to two feet. Monday, 16th.—Right ear, two feet and a half; left ear, two feet. Applied the air-douche to the left ear, by which the hearing distance was raised to two feet eight inches. Thursday, 17th.—Right ear, two feet eight inches ; left ear, three feet. Applied the air-douche to the right ear, after which the hearing distance rose to three feet nine inches and three-quarters. Wednesday, 18th.—Right ear, four feet two inches ; left ear, two feet ten inches. Applied the air-douche to the left ear, with- out any change in the hearing distance imme- diately resulting. Thursday, 19th.—Right ear same as yester- day. Left ear, three feet three inches. Applied the air-douche to the right ear. The stream was allowed to be a little more powerful than usual, which caused some pain. A rushing sound was first heard, until the force of the stream was increased, when a gurgling noise became discernible. After the application of the air-douche, the hearing dis- tance of the right ear was found risen to six feet. Friday, 20th.—Right ear, six feet three inches ; left ear, four feet eight inches. In consequence of some tenderness of the left external ear, the air-douche was not ap- plied to-day. Monday, 23rd.—Tenderness of the left ex- ternal ear gone. Hearing distance on the right side, seven feet seven inches and a half; on the left side, five feet eleven inches. Applied the air-douche to the left ear, and immediately after found the hearing distance only four feet eight inches, but on trying it again in the course of a few minutes it was found to have risen to seven feet and a half. Tuesday, 24th.—Right ear, seven feet eight inches and three-quarters; left ear, eight feet one inch and a half. Applied the air-douche to the right ear. When the air enters the tympanum with mo- derate force, a rushing sound only is heard; but if with greater force, a gurgling noise is perceptible. A few minutes after the air- douche, the hearing distance was found to be nine feet four inches. On trying it again, after an interval of a few minutes, it was found to be almost twelve feet. Wednesday, 25th.—Right ear, twelve feet eleven inches ; left ear, nine feet one inch. A few minutes after the application of the air-douche to the left ear, the hearing dis- tance was eleven feet four inches. After an interval of five minutes from the first trial the hearing distance was found risen to thirteen feet one inch and a half. Thursday, 26th.—Right ear, fourteen feet three inches ; left ear, ten feet and a half. Applied the air-douche to the right ear. At first there was a gurgling, as if there was in the cavity of the tympanum thin loosened mucus. A rough rushing sound was after- wards heard, as if something vibrated within the tympanum, or as when one blows on a bit of gold-beaters’ skin stretched between the fingers. Hearing distance on the right side was now fifteen feet and a half, and in the course of five minutes had risen to sixteen feet five inches. Friday, 27th.—Right ear, seventeen feet and a quarter; left ear, eleven feet eleven inches. After the application of the air-douche to the left ear, the hearing distance of it was twelve feet five inches. Saturday, 28th.—Right ear, eighteen feet four inches and a half; left ear, fourteen feet one inch and a half. Air-douche applied to the right ear. The patient now hears the ticking of the watch distinctly from one corner of the room to the other—a distance of about twenty-five feet. Monday, 30th.—Hears with the right ear the watch from one corner of the room to the other ; left ear, fifteen feet and a quarter. After the application of the air-douche to the left ear, the hearing distance was found risen to about eighteen feet. Tuesday, 31st.— Left membrana tympani though still opaque, does not appear so much thickened as before. It glistens more natu- rally than it did. The handle of the malleus may now be seen. The appearance of the right membrana tympani is pretty natural. Hears the watch with the right ear dis- tinctly from one corner of the room to the other. Hearing distance of the left ear four- teen feet five inches. After the air-douche to the left ear, the hearing distance was about seventeen feet. Thursday, August 2nd.—Hears the watch distinctly with the right ear, from one corner of the room to the other, but did not hear it with the left ear at quite such a distance as the day before. Applied the air-douche to the left ear D 2