DIPLOPIA. 875 If we view the figures No. 4, in the manner already described, we shall find this to be the case. It is to be remarked, however, that we cannot so readily, as in the preceding exam- ples, fix the complete circle, as, from the ab- sence of a point on which to steady our eyes, they move either too little or too much ; the effect of which is, that the images of the half No. The circles in No. 5, dissimilar in size, if viewed by means of the substitute for a ste- reoscope already mentioned, will be seen to coalesce, and appear as one of an interme- diate size, with the right and left edges at slightly different distances from the observer. The mind, it has been shown, does not perceive affections of corresponding papillae of the two retinae at the same instant of time. It is found, by the above experiment, that the mind does not perceive, separately, affections of the two retinae, resulting from impressions, which, although not on, are nevertheless near. No. Another important point ascertained by Mr. Wheatstone, and connected in some de- gree with the preceding, is, that when we look at the figures, No. 6, in the stereoscope, or in the manner already indicated, the centre lines, though, if superposed, they would cross, coalesce, and a single line is perceived, one extremity of which appears towards, and the other from, the observer; in other words, the line appears as if standing out in relief. It is to be remarked, that the lines, in order to coalesce, should not, if superposed, have their extremities distant from each other beyond the limits above mentioned, in regard to reti- nal images simply dissimilar in size. The fact demonstrated by Mr. Wheatstone, that, in viewing an object of three dimensions, while the optic axes converge, obviously dis- similar pictures are necessarily projected on the two retinae, and yet the mind perceives but a single object not exactly like either of the pictures on the retinae, is a most valuable contribution to the theory of vision; “ It be- circles either hesitate, as it were, to join, or having joined, are apt to pass each other. Mr. Wheatstone has ascertained, that images differing in magnitude, within certain limits, but in other respects similar, if pro- jected on parts of the two retinae, as nearly correspondent as may be, coalesce, and occa- sion a single resultant perception. 5. corresponding papillae. The one image is not in this case, however, seen to the exclusion of the other ; but the mind fixes as if on a mean. For this to take place, it is to be always un- derstood that, as Mr. Wheatstone points out, “ the inequality of the pictures be not greater than the difference which exists between the two projections of the same object, when seen in the most oblique position of the eyes (i. e. both turned to the extreme right, or to the extreme left,) ordinarily employedand, it is to be added, that the one impression be not very much stronger than the other. 6. ing thus established,” says Mr. Wheatstone, p. 373, “ that the mind perceives an object of three dimensions by means of two dissimilar pictures projected by it on the two retinae, the following question occurs :—What would be the visual effect of simultaneously present- ing to each eye, instead of the object itself, its projection on a plane surface as it appears to that eye?” It was for this purpose Mr. Wheatstone invented the stereoscope. The effect is suf- ficiently produced by viewing the figures. Nos. 7 and 8, in the manner already recom- mended. The central lines of the figures No. 6, represent dissimilar perspectives, such as would be projected on the retinae by a bit of wire held inclined with its extremities at different distances from the observer. The figures, No. 7, are the dissimilar perspectives of a truncated cone, and those of No. 8, the dissimilar perspectives of the interior of a hollow truncated cone.