592 CANCER Family. | Class. | Order. I | Genus. 1 Species. | Varieties. Synonyms of the Species. Adventitious Formations. Heterologous Formations. Tissues. Cancer or Carcinoma. / Encephaloid. { ' r Common vaseu-"I lar sarcoma. [ Abernethy. Mammary sar- I coma ? ) Solanoid. Recamier, Zang. Nephroid. Idem. Napiform. Idem. Carcinoma fasciculatum vel hya- linum. Mueller. Fungus hajmatodes. Hey. Haimatode Cancer. Auct.GallJ . Spongy or ossivorous tumour. Ruysch. Valletta. Struma fungosa (testis). Callisen. Spongoid inflammation. Burns. Milt-like tumour. Munro. Medullary sarcoma. Abernethy. Cerebriform disease or cancer. Laennec. Pulpy testicle. Baillie. Carcinus spongiosus. Good. Carcinoma spongiosum. Young. Fungoid disease. A. Cooper, Hodgkin. Medullary fungus. Maunoir, Chelius. Acute fungous tumour. C. Bell. Medullary cancer. Travers. Cephaloma. Hooper, Carswell. Carcinoma medullare. Mueller. Soft cancer. Auct. Var. r Scirrhus. \( l: Pancreatic sarcoma? Aber- nethy. Sfia, }**“»“• ^ardaceoustissue. Auct. Gall. Carcinomareticulare. Mueller. Carcinomatous sarcoma. Abernethy. Carcinoma scirrhosum. Young. Scirrhous cancer. Travers. Scirrhoma. Carswell. Carcinoma simplex vel fi brosum. M ueller. Stone cancer. Auct. Var. Colloid, j Pultaceous 'J Peariy alveolar rCRU'rEILHIEB ditto. ) Areolar geiatiniform cancer. Cruveil- hier. Carcinoma alveolare. Mueller. Gum cancer. Hodgkin. It will be seen from this table that cancer is synonymous anatomice with adventitious heterologous tissue. The fact of its being a tissue, that is, of its possessing structure, separates it unequivocally as a morbid product from others belonging to the same class, for example pus and tubercle. The heterologous material of all carcinomatous formations is organizable, susceptible of vascular develop- ment, and hence of undergoing all the changes of increase and decay consequent on such susceptibility. The importance of this fea- ture has been justly insisted on by several writers, but by none more pointedly than by M. Cruveilhier, who remarks, in his emphatic style, that cancerous products are living foreign bodies, which possess vital powers of their own, and, like the foetus in utero, as- similate materials derived from the individual in whom they are developed, to their own peculiar substance. But in affirming that these growths enjoy a sort of independent existence, in styling them “ true parasites and new individuals,” this pathologist goes further than he is warranted by observation. An entozoon, however produced, lives without vascular connexion with the parent organ- ism ; it is almost needless to state that such is not the case with the class of products now under consideration.—Again, the heterologous character of carcinoma distinguishes it from another section of adventitious growths, the analogous, such as fatty, fibrous, and cartilagi- nous tumours. In thus applying the term heterologous, we refer to the general appear- ance of the mass, as seen with the naked eye ; certain opinions of microscopical observers, which apparently clash with this use of the word, bear in reality upon a different point. The genus carcinoma includes the three species already spoken of ; and the term is meant to be equally applicable to them in every stage of their existence, before as after softening and ulceration. Each species pre- sents a certain number of varieties. In a column apart are collected the chief synonyms, under which the species have been described by different writers. The comprehension of the works of these authors will, we trust, be facilitated by reference to this list; and the dismay naturally felt by the student on en- countering in each new treatise one or more names of diseased formations seemingly dis- tinct from all those he had previously become acquainted with, will be in some measure re- moved, when he discovers that such diversity of names by no means implies a corresponding multiplicity of things. We shall divide the following article into two parts ; devoting the first to the subject of cancer in general, in the second describing the disease as it occurs in those tissues and organs in which it is likely to come under the notice of the practical surgeon. Part I.—Or Cancer in general. § I.—Anatomy. (a.) Encephaloid (from eyiceipaXoQ, the brain, and ticoc, form). The name of en- cephaloid or cerebriform tissue was first applied by Laennec to a modification of cancerous growth, of which one of the most striking characters is its resemblance to the substance of the brain. This resemblance has been noticed by almost all authors who have w'ritten on the subject, but Abernethy was the first, by his adoption of the term