G85 CANCER. 1 Op. cit. p. 68. discovered to account for it; but in the ma- jority of cases it is immediately brought about by inflammatory action in the cyst itself or in the peritonaeum. The inflammation of the serous membrane originates sometimes with- out any evident cause ; more commonly from the escape of the contents of a cyst into its cavity, the effect either of natural rupture (which may be spontaneous or produced by a fall or blow), or of the operation of paracen- tesis. In some very rare instances—such a case is reported by Dr. Bright-—effusion of cancerous matter into the peritonaeum has been observed. The escape of the encysted fluids may take place into the intestines, and the diminution of the tumour coadvance with diarrhoea ', or into the vagina'-’. Of the causes of ovarian cancer nothing is known : much hypothetical matter has. been written on the influence of gestation, abor- tion, suppression of the lochia, &c.; the un- satisfactory character of this may be ascer- tained by perusing the published histories of some dozen patients. Boivin and Duges affirm that it is most common in single persons 3: this too may be doubted. The diagnosis of ovarian enlargement is often exceedingly obscure; let us suppose, however, that an abdominal tumour has, by the rules laid down in the article Ovary, been dis- tinctly ascertained to exist in that organ, and not in the substance of, or in connexion with, the uterus, mesentery, intestines, kidneys, spleen, or liver,—that the female is neither pregnant nor affected with ascites—the nature of the morbid development remains to be de- cided.—If well-marked cancerous disease co- exist in some other organ with the ovarian tumour, the latter is probably carcinomatous : if no other part is apparently carcinomatous, and the cancerous cachexia is established, we are entitled to infer that the affection of the ovary is of this character, with a degree of confidence proportional to the surety ot our diagnosis in respect of other parts. But both of these general guides may be absent, or may fail us: we must then depend on the local characters of the disease.—Fibrous tumours of the ovary may, when large, be distinguished from scirrhus by their size ; from encephaloid, by their hardness, inferior elasticity, smoother non-lobulated surface, and uniform consistence in every part. The condition of the patient s health will, in some instances, facilitate the distinction.— Unilocular cysts are non-lobu- lated ; they usually contain a serous fluid, in which case the fluctuation of this will readily prove that the mass of the tumour does not consist of cancerous matter ; and even when the contents are of a gelatinous character, the phenomenon is sufficiently well marked to pre- 1 Legnllois, Blight, Ac. 2 Munro. 3 On this Capuron, who considers the statement to be correct, observes: “ Mais a quoi tient cette diffe- rence? Est-ce a une continence trop severe, mii n'entre point dans les vues dc la Nature, on bien a la dissolu- tion on an deregleincnt des mouirs qni n'a lieu que tropsouvent horsdti manage?” vent mistake. The constitution suffers little in this disease.—Mullilocular cysts, on the con- trary, either from the consistence of their con- tents (firm jelly-like matter, setheroma, ace- phalocysts, pilous and fatty substance,) or from the non-communication of their cells, rarely give rise to more than very obscure fluctuation, which may almost be confounded with the elastic doughiness of encephaloid ; careful examination will, however, enable the observer to avoid this error.—It is not enough, however, to be able to affirm that the entire mass of the tumour is not composed of cancer— an extremely rare occurrence ; we require to ascertain whether, and to what extent, en- cysted growths are complicated with carcino- matous deposition in their walls. In certain cases this may be done by the detection, both by palpation and percussion, of irregular indu- rated masses distinguished by their greater soft- ness from the remainder of the tumour; when the cysts are exceedingly tense from thorough repletion with fluid, this sign of lobulation may not be ascertainable : in this state of things evacuation of the fluid by paracentesis will remove this difficulty in the way of the dia- gnosis. Nevertheless, the discovery of these lobulated masses is not a certain sign of can- cerous formation ; bunches of subcysts, with gelatinous or albuminous contents (we here allude to their outward appearance), aggre- gated in the parietes of larger cysts, give rise to a precisely similar sensation.—When the “ hydatid fremitus” of M. Piorry exists in a marked manner, the presence of ac-ephalocysts may be safely announced ; but the recognition of this sign is far from easy.—A very rapid course of the disease furnishes one of the best proofs of encephaloid complication. On the general principles of medical treat- ment of ovarian cancer, no particular point requires notice. It is important to remember that giving exit by puncture to the fluid con- tents of cysts of the ovary, complicated with encephaloid deposition in their walls, must, in the same manner as in the mamma, afford mischievous facility for the development of the cancerous matter. This distinctly appears to have been the result of the operation in a case related by Dr. Seymour1. A tumour of this kind was punctured with, as is usual, temporary amelioration of the symptoms ; but the patient was subsequently unable to pass a month without a repetition of the process, “ which each succeeding time became more difficult, from the increase of the solid tumours in the abdomen.” It is impossible to separate the consideration either of paracentesis or extirpation in cancerous cases, and in those in which the ovarian tumour is uncomplicated with such disease ; both these important ope- rations are treated of in the article Ovary : under this head the bibliography of the subject will also be found. It may be right to antici- pate our intended observations so far as to state, that if marked cancerous disease be pre-