50 3 BONE, DISEASES OF. kidneys under rachitis. Some have regarded this as a vicarious action, because it usually ceases as recovery goes on. Mr. Stanley has made many interesting observations on the mode in which reparation is accomplished, which, with the causes, symptoms, effects, pathology, and treatment, will be fully discussed in the article Rachitis. 5. Mollities ossium is a bad term for a disease which may be the effect of various and oppo- site causes. It merely implies softness of bone, and, therefore, might fairly be applied to a rickety bone, or to one softened from any morbid infiltrations. The term, however, in its conventional sense, signifies a morbid con- dition of bone, characterized by softness, which does not arise in young persons, as in rachitis, from primary deficiency in the deposition of earthy matter, but generally affects the old ; and as in these bony matter has been formed, its deficiency is explained by absorption. One form results from infiltration of the tissue with oil, and others from morbid deposits and malignant diseases. See Osteomalaxy. III. We have now to say a few words on inflammation of bone and its membranes, with its effects. The general introductory observations on the diseases of bone, apply with peculiar force to inflammation of its tissues, which is charac- terized by the same signs as in the soft parts : its effects or consequences are similar ; and its progress strictly in accordance with the phy- sical properties and vital endowments of the structure. Increased vascularity, heat, swell- ing, and augmented sensibility, mark the oc- currence of inflammation, and the conse- quences, as, in the soft parts are induration, thickening, adhesion, suppuration, ulceration, and mortification. The induration of bone from the effect of inflammation is termed ebur- nation, and is not unfrequently met with. The thickening, from the same cause, consti- tutes one form of osseous hypertrophy, or hy- perostosis, of which there are several specimens in the museums of St. Thomas’s and St. Bartho- lomew’s hospitals. Most of the instances, I have seen apparently unconnected with primary periosteal disease, are general thickening of the cranium, with increased vascularity ; but the great majority of the preparations I have ex- amined of this form of hypertrophy in the long bones, are evidently the result of peri- ostitis, and consequent deposition of osseous matter, by which the compact structure of the bone is greatly thickened, the cancellated structure and medullary canal remaining un- changed. The adhesive inflammation in bone is exemplified in the reparation of fracture. Suppuration occurs in all parts of bones, but most frequently in the articular extremities of the long bones, or immediately beneath the periosteum. There are also preparations in the museum of St. Thomas’s hospital, where an abscess has formed in the compact tissue, apparently unconnected with disease either of periosteum or medullary membrane. Pus is also occasionally found in the medullary canal. In any of these situations it is generally the result of chronic, very rarely of acute inflam- mation. All the circumstances connected with this subject will be fully treated of in the articles, Fracture, Ostitis, and Periostitis. A process analogous to the ulceration of soft parts occurs in bone, and is termed caries, to which process the appellation should be re- stricted. Sanson regards it as a suppuration of the animal framework, which being thus destroyed, the inorganic matter deposited in it is necessarily thrown off. The process of re- paration, as in the soft parts, is by granulation and cicatrization. (See Ostitis.) The granu- lation, however, is never sufficient to effect a perfect restoration, as in the soft parts, the excavated surface being chiefly filled by a fibrous substance. Mortification of bone is termed necrosis, from veicpow, to destroy. Some writers have used the terms caries and necrosis almost in- differently, whereas the only circumstance in which they resemble each other is, that both may result from the same cause, inflammation. Others, again, define mortification of bone by the term exfoliation, and consider necrosis as death accompanied by a process of reparation, in which new bone is formed around the dead, to support the body, whilst the latter is being separated by absorption, and holes are formed in the new crust, communicating with the surface, through which the dead bone is dis- charged. The truth is, if a bone be dead, it is necrosed ; if a part of it be dead, that part is necrosed, or destroyed, whether a process of reparation follow'or not; and exfoliation, which means the falling away of a leaf, is the separa- tion of a superficial layer of dead bone. See Necrosis. It is a matter of every-day experience, that the periosteum may be inflamed, without im- plicating the proper osseous tissue. Its effects are tumefaction, thickening, or induration of the membrane, frequently accompanied by deposits either of purulent, cartilaginous, or osseous matter, between it and the bone. See Periostitis. It is the opinion of M. Sanson, that it is almost impossible to separate the affections of the medullary membrane from those of the osseous tissue. He regards this membrane, however, as the seat of the pains suffered by syphilitic patients, on what ground I am not aware. It certainly must be very difficult to distinguish these different seats of inflamma- tion during life ; but any one may readily convince himself by a walk through our mu- seums, that morbid growths originate in this membrane, and that the usual consequences of inflammation are here developed, other parts of the bone being primarily unaffected. This, however, will be fully considered in the article Ostitis. Inflammation of bone and its membranes may be simple, arising in a healthy person from some common cause, as cold or injury. It may also be modified by a general cachectic state of the system, by scrofula, or specific