BLOOD-LETTING. 488 never, met with a case where general bleeding, judiciously resorted to, caused any serious mis- chief from its being carried so far as to produce syncope. In considering this point we ought of course to discriminate between those cases where the bleeding has been employed as a curative means, and those wherein a profuse haemorrhage has taken place from wounded vessels, as from accidents, or from a partial separation of the placenta. Under such cir- cumstances the bleeding may not only produce syncope, but such may be the size of the bleed- ing vessels, that the blood will continue to flow until life is nearly or even completely ex- tinguished. But in the operation of phlebo- tomy the flow of blood can and ought to be arrested whenever syncope takes place ; no one surely ever attempted to persevere in ab- stracting blood from a patient in this state. On the other hand, the fainting is to be considered as an index of the quantity of blood necessary to be removed for the relief from the disease ; and, as I have already said, it will always be found that the quantity is in the ratio of the propriety and necessity of the depletion. Though it has been stated that in no case of syncope from venesection have I ever wit- nessed any pernicious effects, yet in some cases it has been carried to the very last ex- tremity, and the consecutive symptoms have caused great alarm to the bystanders as well as to the operator. Such cases, however, must be very rare, for accustomed as we are to hear daily of persons being bled to a great extent, yet such alarming effects arc seldom heard of; though many hundreds, or even thousands, of persons in this community are bled every day. I have observed persons recover from in- flammatory affections, whose vital powers ap- peared so reduced as to render their state ap- parently hopeless, this low condition seem- ing to be the very means of arresting the diseased action. Blood-letting, ivhen to be repeated.—Though, in the generality of cases much depends on the full quantity of blood being taken at the first bleeding, as well as having recourse to blood-letting in the early stages of disease, still there are other cases wherein the com- plaint can only be cured by the frequent re- petition of venesection ; and this is rendered necessary from different causes, as for instance when a fainting state comes on after only a small quantity of blood has been abstracted, or where the pulse sinks after a very moderate quantity has been removed. But when, from whatever cause, the quan- tity of blood abstracted has been small, it ought to lead to the more close watching of any return of the symptoms, and prepare the surgeon to repeat the bleeding. Now it frequently happens, that on the re- petition of the venesection, the cause which prevented the first depletion being sufficiently copious, no longer exists, so that at the next bleeding any quantity of blood which may be deemed necessary, can be readily abstracted. But the most frequent cause for repeating venesection is, that to whatever extent the first bleeding may have been carried, it is sel- dom that one depletion is sufficient to check the progress of a severe attack of inflamma- tion, particularly in an important and vital organ. The more complete the syncope has been from the bleeding, and the sooner the second bleeding is performed after the pulse has begun to rise, the less will be the quantity of blood necessary to be taken away at the second bleeding, as well as the aggregate quantity for the complete cure of the disease. After the first bleeding, therefore, the pulse ought to be closely watched, due attention being also paid to the other symptoms; and -whenever the vascular system has begun to recover its vigour, which may take place in three, six, or twelve hours, then replace the bandage on the arm, wipe away the coagulum in the wound of the vein, and allow the blood to flow, until the strength of the heart and arteries is again subdued. Whenever there is a probability of its being necessary to repeat blood-letting, the pain, and even sometimes the difficulty of making a new incision may be avoided, by simply anointing the lips of the wound, which will prevent their agglutination. Conditions of the Blood.—There are appear- ances which blood presents, both whilst it flow's from the vein, and after it has been kept some time and allowed to coagulate, which have been considered as affording criteria for regulating the quantity of blood to be with- drawn, and for the repetition of the venesec- tion. In violent inflammations, the blood usually flows from the wound in the vein with great force ; whereas in other diseases the stream is comparatively slow. In the first case the bleed- ing ought to be as profuse, as in the latter it should be limited. The colour of the blood as it flows from the vein, also varies in different ex- amples of disease, being in some very florid, or of a scarlet red, and in others of a crimson red or deep purple colour. The first state of the blood indicates the propriety of copious blood- letting, whilst the latter points out a state of the system where but a very moderate deple- tion is admissible. The appearances which blood assumes after it has been allowed to stagnate, are also sup- posed to afford indications for the repetition of venesection. The buffy coat, and the corn- arative quantities of crassamentum and serum ave especially been considered as an index of the existence of inflammation, and of the pro- priety of blood-letting. These circumstances, how'ever, can never be a criterion for estimating the quantity of blood proper to be removed, whilst the blood is flowing from the vein, neither can any ap- pearance of the blood after its coagulation, be a guide for repeating the venesection. The appearance of the buffy coat has been chiefly dwelt on as an important character of the in- flammatory diathesis ; but it is not to be con-