690 CANCER. recognised with any certainty. Other sym- ptoms will, however, in many cases assist us in the diagnosis of this disease. Suppose there is bloody micturition, and that by the rules laid down in the article Hematuria, we have ascertained that the blood comes from the bladder,—if the discharge be exceedingly abundant, or if it occur without apparent cause, such as the jolting of horse or carriage exercise, or the operation of sounding, the inference is that it depends on cancerous rather than calculous disease. If the uriue contain encephaloid detritus cognisable by its physical properties, doubt is of course at an end ; or if it hold a small quantity only of this in suspension, the albuminous impregna- tion thus produced may be detected by the usuai tests ’. We have further the evidence of cathe- terism to guide us in distinguishing the affec- tion, but as past experience shows1 2, the most skilful surgeons have not always been able to distinguish vesical tumours from calculi by this process. Although in some cases, from the extreme softness of the morbid growth, the distinction is comparatively easy, and in others, encephaloid pulp being carried away in the eye of the catheter, error actually impos- sible, yet in the majority of instances, if the tumour be firm, the sensations received by the operator are not so easily distinguishable from those produced by a calculus, as might, h prion, be supposed. In cases of this doubt- ful character mediate auscultation has been recommended, and as air is a better conductor of sound than water, previous inflation of the bladder suggested ; but of the practical utility of this doubts may be entertained. M. Velpeau, and in this he is joined by Mr. Costello, would not trust to the evidence of the stethoscope, where simple catheterism left him undecided as to the nature of the disease. The diffi- culty of the diagnosis will be greatly increased if a calculus coexist with a cancerous tumour; and if the latter be encrusted with a thick layer of calculous matter (as in a specimen preserved in the Museum of the College of Surgeons, and described and figured by Dr. R. Willis 3) there are no known means of ascertaining, during life, the nature of the nucleus of this unusual species of calculus. In sounding or catheterising patients with vesical cancer there are two points to be borne especially in mind : first, that the mor- bid production sometimes pushes the posterior part of the bladder back, and thus increases to a remarkable extent the length of the prostatic portion of the urethra; secondly, that the introduction of the instrument is followed by much pain and often excites serious haemorrhage. In illustration of the first point, which has also been noticed by M. Civiale, we may mention that Mr. Cos- tello having on one occasion, as he informs 1 Raver, Malad. de9 Reins, t. i. p. 184. 2 Bedor, Lancette Franq. t. viii. no. 148. &c. 3 On Urinary Diseases, p. 284. us, provided himself with an unusually long catheter for the purpose of examining a patient affected with this disease, found it im- possible, although he carried the instrument as fiir as practicable into the passages, to reach the posterior wall of the bladder. Warner’ long since showed the practica- bility of removing a tumour from the female bladder by ligature, when the meatus urin- arius had previously undergone much dilata- tion : Lecat invented instruments for per- forming a similar operation on the male2; Covillard 3 cut a man for a tumour the size of a nut and squeezed it with forceps, after which it appears to have suppurated or sloughed away and the patient eventually recovered4: M. Civiale has succeeded with ease in removing “ fungi,” either by tearing them away or by breaking them down. But whatever may be the success of sUch opera- tions in cases of polypoid vesicular, or erectile tumours, it is difficult to conceive how they could be otherwise than detrimental, where the morbid production is truly cancerous. In these latter cases palliative treatment alone seems warrantable. Bibliography.—Choppart, Maladies lies Voies Urin. t. 1. p. 4(56. edit. 1821. Desault, Malad. des Voies Urin. p. 177. 3rd edit. Lal/emand, Malad. des Orgnnes Genito-Urin. p. 1. 1825. Amussat, Cancer Cerebrif. de la Vessie, Gaz. Medicale, p. 71. Fevricr. 1830. S. Cooper, Med. Chir. Trans, vol. xvii. p. 51. Lond. 1832. Brodie, Dis. of Urin. Organs. 2nd ed. Lond. Civiale, Traite dc T Affection Calculeusc, p. 322. 1838. (e.) Urethra. 1.Male.—M. Lallemand’s case of vesical cancer furnishes the only example we are acquainted with of carcinoma origi- nating in the male urethra. The disease was not a prolongation or production from the morbid mass in the bladder, but “ a cancerous tumour of the size of a nut situate at the pos- terior surface of the canal and behind the bulb.” The investing mucous membrane was destroyed, probably by the caustic which had been employed to remove the stricture pre- sumed to exist during life. M. Lallemand sees no way by which such a tumour could be distinguished from an ordi- nary stricture, more especially when, as in this case, the patient had had blennorrhagia and been cured by the ordinary method of treatment. 2. Female.—The female urethra is sometimes the seat of cancerous disease either from the extension of adjacent carcinoma or indepen- dently of this. Of the former description, exhibiting itself in the areolar pultaceous variety, a striking example has been figured by M. Cruveilhier5. The walls of the canal in its entire length and circumference are here converted into a cylinder of that morbid structure, and communicate on the posterior 1 Phil. Trans, vol. xlvii. p. 414. 1749. 2 Stackc, in Phil. Trans, vol. xlvii. p. 292., 1751. 3 Observ. Iatrochinirgiqucs, p. 92. Strasb. 1791. * Lettre a 1’Acad. dc9 Sciences, Dec. 22, 1834. s Livr. xxiii. PI. 6.