ALBUGO. 63 milk, porter, and Embden groats ia gruel, are recommended ; the breasts should be kept warm, and it will perhaps be found useful to excite them by friction. But the best excit- ant of all is the suction by the mouth of the infant. When these means fail, there is no choice; the infant must be weaned and brought up by hand, as it is termed, or another nurse must be provided. When the breasts are ill- formed, or not prominent enough, they should be drawn with an appropriate instrument. But it may not be practicable either to suckle the child, or draw the nipples, in consequence of the sores or cracks accompanying a mastoitis, as in this case the attempts would be too pain- ful for endurance ; pressure gently made on the less painful parts of the breast, with gentle suction by a nurse, will be the only means ad- missible. (See Mastoitis.) Hired nurses often conceal the suppression of their milk ; this may be suspected when the infant becomes fretful, with dryness and heat of skin ; the breasts should be examined; if they are found to be constantly flaccid and empty, and that no milk can be obtained by pressure, beyond a drop or two of thin, serous fluid, the milk is secreted in too scanty quan- tity to satisfy the infant, and will soon cease to be furnished altogether. AGRIPPA, ( Obstet. ) partus, agripparum, agrippinus, Lat. ; derived, say some authors, from cegre partus, others from dypa, “ seizure,” and wove, “ foot.” Birth by foot presentation. Pliny uses it in this sense. It is pretended that Agrippa owed his name to the circum- stance of his having been thus born. AIDE, adjutor, minister, Lat. ; assistant, Eng. The surgeon, in the hospital, operating theatre, and on the field, requires one or more assistants to aid him in the discharge of his duties. The qualities requisite in an assistant are physical or moral. The possession of mere bodily strength to prevent the patient from making any sudden movements, by which the safety of the operation, and perhaps even life itself might be endangered, or to hold the part on which the surgeon is operating, is often sufficient for the necessities of the case. An uneducated man is quite as capable as any other of making counter-extension for the re- duction of a luxation, or the adjustment of the ends of a fractured bone. Under other cir- cumstances, however, the assistant cannot be too conversant with all the resources of the art of surgery, as the success of an operation often depends upon the manner in which the operator is assisted. How desirable it would be in many cases, that the surgeon should be seconded by a person, not only familiar with all the details of the operation, but capable of performing it! The duties of the assistant are various ; and where several are engaged in an operation each has his part assigned to him, some being stationed to hold and encourage the patient, others to hand the instruments in the order in which they are required,—to supply sponge, ligatures, or whatever else may be necessary. Such an arrangement is always made a pre- liminary to the regular operations of surgery. But how much more necessary must these previous dispositions be, when the operation to be performed is one of thosp irregular, un- usual proceedings in which it is impossible for the surgeon to have an idea beforehand of all the difficulties he may have to encounter ! Persons accustomed to hospital practice are best qualified for the duties of assistants, pos- sessing, as they do, the necessary strength and address to make compression on the trunks of arteries, to seize bleeding vessels, put on ligatures, fix the organ in operations on the eye, &c. Their conduct should be regulated with great prudence and discretion, so that, during the operation, no word or gesture es- cape them to alarm the patient by the idea of unforeseen danger or difficulty ; they should be firm enough to bear the sight of blood and the cries of the sufferer. The qualities of an assistant are best appreciated by the surgeons most engaged in the performance of the ope- rations of what the continental surgeons call “ high surgery they are too often over- looked by persons less conversant with the fulfilment of those arduous duties. The number of assistants must be regulated by the nature of the operation to be per- formed ; it is proper, in all cases, to limit it to those that are indispensable, more particu- larly in cases of females, when the operations interest parts, the exposure of which to a crowd of persons, would excite in the patient feelings of shame and humiliation. ( Wm. B. Costello.) ALBUGO, albus, Lat. ; apytfia, Gr. ; a pearl or web, Eng. This word is employed to designate a white opaque spot or stain upon a part or the whole of the cornea, which, in proportion to its extent, destroys its trans- parency. There are several varieties of these opacities, w'hich will be noticed under the ar- ticles Nebula and Leucoma, which differ, however, from the albugo. This affection, which was described by the ancients, Pliny in particular, is most commonly a consequence of violent inflammation of the eye, terminat- ing in the effusion and organization of lymph between the laminae of the cornea. It is also sometimes observed to be formed slowly, and without being preceded by inflammation, in persons of scrofulous habit, or who are tainted with the syphilitic virus. The albugo presents the appearance of an irregular spot, the opacity of which sometimes reflects a blueish or pearly colour : the centre is commonly the densest part; but even at its borders, where it is thinner, the contrast it presents with the translucent cornea is suffi- ciently striking. The colour of the recently- formed albugo is blueish ; that of the albugo of long standing, a dead white. Sometimes small blood-vessels can be seen entering its substances ; at others, it seems isolated in the midst of the cornea, without any apparent