139 AMPUTATION. moved, should do nothing more than bear the weight of it in his hands, one of which should be placed near the saw. The least motion of the limb would interfere with the action of this instrument, or snap the bone. He must therefore watch the action of the saw, and not look at the operator ; for so sure as he does, or is told by him to move the part in any direction, the saw will be nipped, or the bone splintered : so slight a motion will do one or the other, that nothing ought to guide the assistant but his own judgment. Although the necessity of this precaution seems so ob- vious as hardly to need mention ; yet, for want of attention to it, the bone is often splintered. If the saw happened to be nipped, the surgeon would say “ lower the part,” and the assistant looking at him and not at the saw, obeying the word instead of attending to his own sensations, would indeed lower the part, but snap the bone. If the surgeon interfere at all with the position of the limb, he had much better do it with his hand which has hold of the bone, than by giving any direction to the assistant. When the precautions we have recommended are neglected, and the bone is splintered, the surgeon must remove any irregular projections, or roughness it may present, with a very fine saw, or with a pair of bone-nippers, so as to leave its end per- fectly smooth. It has been recommended to ease off the sharp margin of this end by scrap- ing it with a knife or file ; but besides that nature does this afterwards much better than art can do it, to scrape the edge of a bone is to denude it, and necessarily to cause it to exfoliate. When the bone is sawn through, and its end on the stump left with a clean smooth surface, the amputation is finished. Such is the plan of performing the circular amputation generally adopted at the present day. We have now to describe and compare with this plan, and with each other, the other plans of executing it, which surgeons have from time to time proposed. Plan of Celsus.—The soft parts are to be divided down to the bone, and then dissected off and drawn back, so as to leave some part of it bare. The bone is to be sawn through as near as possible to the sound flesh adhering to it, eased off in front, where the saw may have made it rough, and then to be covered with the skin, of which a sufficient quantity should be preserved, to close it over to the greatest possible extent. Plan of Wiseman and Pare.—The plan of Wiseman, who appears to have operated in the same manner as Pare had done before him, may be gathered from the following quo- tations from his work :— “ The member is to be supported by some one, whilst another standeth behind the pa- tient and draweth up the skin and musculous flesh. Then make your ligature two fingers’ breadth, or thereabouts, in the same parts. constantly splintering bones in the living body. The reason of this difference is obvious; the former have learnt to saw—the latter have not. “ This ligature made, the assistant streng- thens it whilst he draws up the musculous flesh. In the mean time, tne operator, with a sharp crooked knife, by a turn with his hand, cuts the flesh off around the bone ; then with the back of it he scrapes the periosteum from the bone ; if there be two bones, then, with a dividing knife, he sepa- rates the fleshy membrane from them. The bones freed from the periosteum, Guido pro- poses a linen cloth, and Hildanus a kind of purse, to be brought over the upper divided flesh, to pull it upward and make more way for the saw. But I think that needless. The flesh divided, the parts separate of themselves ; besides, the assistant’s pulling up the muscu- lous flesh is sufficient. That done, you are at liberty, whether you will cauterize the vessels by a button cautery, or, by ligature, stop the bleeding, or by agglutination.” Plan of Cheselden and Petit.—After stating, that when the parts are flaccid they should be tightened by two ligatures, applied round the limb—one above, the other below the place at which it is intended to amputate. Petit describes his operation in the follow- ing manner :—he says, “ It has ever been considered an essential point in amputations, to preserve a good deal of soft parts, and to bring them together, in order that the bone may be more speedily covered, and the cure hastened. It was with this view I conceived the plan of cutting them through by two cir- cular incisions. I begin the first an inch be- low the place where I intend to saw through the bone, and by it divide only the skin and fat down to the aponeurosis. I have the in- teguments drawn up, so as to uncover, for more than an inch, the muscles beneath them. These I divide by the second incision, and draw them back with a retractor; and thus the bone, after it has been sawn through, is left sunk in the midst of them.” Plan of Benjamin Bell. — The directions given by this excellent surgeon, are, first to divide the skin by one circular incision, and to preserve enough of it to cover the surface of the stump ; in the second place, to divide the muscles down to the bone by another in- cision ; and, thirdly, to dissect up round the bone, so as to be able to saw it off con- siderably above the cut ends of the mus- cles. Alanson’s Plan.—As there has been con- siderable difference of opinion with respect to the exact manner in which Alanson operated, we shall give his own description of it. In his Practical Observations on Amputation, page 33, he states, “ I shall now bring into one view our established mode of performing the operation of amputation on the thigh, and the after treatment, as practised in the Liverpool Infirmary. Apply the tourniquet as usual, and let an assistant draw up the skin and muscles by firmly grasping the limb with both hands. The operator then makes the circular incision as quick as possible, through the skin and mem- brana adiposa down to the muscles ; he next