174 AMPUTATION. with the tarsal hones. The metatarsals are luxated; arid the anterior 'part of the foot is hanging by the soft parts of the sole, from which the flap is about to he formed. By repeating the manoeuvre at the top of the head, and at the other side, the strong ligaments are all divided, and this key-stone of the articular arch being freed, a slight pressure will throw downwards the anterior portion of the foot, and open wide the whole line of the articulations ; the remaining liga- ments are divided, and the knife is brought on the flat, between the under surfaces of the bones, and the sole of the foot. The point of the knife ought to be used for detaching freely the plantar ligament from the upper ends of the metatarsals, in order that the knife may lie well on the flat before the flap is cut. The inside of the flap should be two inches long—the out- er, little more than one ; its form must be slightly rounded to correspond with the semicircular curve of the upper part of the stump, and it should be cut out bevelled to the skin. If any tendons hang upon its surface, they must be cut clean off with a pair of strong scis- sors. Fig. 40. The foot removed shows the section of the soft parts of the sole to form the flap. The bleeding vessels are tied or twisted, the flaps brought together by adhesive straps, and the patient is placed in bed, the leg half bent, and resting on its outside, so as to favour the exit of any matter that may form in the wound. The same precautions to prevent the pus from fusing along the tendinous sheaths will be necessary as in amputation of the car- pus. The bandages must be in a proper de- gree compressive from above downwards. In casting an eye over the structure of tarso-metatarsal articulations, it will be per- ceived, that if only one or two bones are diseased, the ablation of the sound ones would be unnecessary. In a case, in which the cuboid bone was diseased, Hey disarticu- lated it from the os calcis, removing it toge- ther with the two outer metatarsals. Partial amputations of the foot in the articu- lation of the astragalus with the scaphoid, and of the os calcis with the cuboid.—This operation is known by the name of Chopart’s Amputation, and may be performed with much greater facility than the disarticulation we have been just describing. The joints here are much more loose and regular ; the whole articular line is composed of portions, both tolerably regular, and easily recognised, on account of the degree of motion which the joint allows. 15 The internal tuberosity of the scaphoid will serve as a guide to the articulation, which, on the inside of the foot, commences immediately behind this prominence. If a line be drawn from this point straight across the foot, it will fall on the articular interline also, just in front of another tuberosity, which can be felt on the outside and anterior point of the os calcis. The ligaments are loose and easily divided ; the os calcis and the outer part of the sca- phoid, are, however, held together by a very strong ligament, which forms what the French surgeons term the key of the joint. The di- rection of the scaphoid portion of the articular line represents a half-moon with an anterior convexity ; that of the outer portion, an ob- lique plane from within outwards and a little forwards. The foot is placed in the same position as for the preceding amputation, and the arte- ries are compressed as before. The surgeon, after having ascertained the position of the two guides to the articulation, takes the foot in his hand, so that the thumb and index- finger shall mark these points respectively, and makes a semilunar incision across the back of the foot from the one to the other (a, b, fig. 31). Some surgeons recommend the incision to be made in the line of the articulation itself; but it is better to carry its convexity at least half an inch further forward. The assistant retracts, and the tendons are cut along the line of the articulation. If operating on the left foot, the point of the knife is at once made to penetrate the joint immediately be- hind the tubercle of the scaphoid, and follow- ing the articular line across the foot, com- pletes the division of the dorsal ligaments. By pressing the anterior portion of the foot downwards, the joint is made to gape, and the division of the interosseous ligament is ef- fected with the point of the knife. The bones are luxated, the inferior ligaments are cut, and the knife is turned on the flat in the soft parts of the sole of the foot, which is held in a horizontal position while the flap is cut from the inferior surfaces of the tarsal and metatarsal bones. The bony surfaces to be covered are considerable, and the flap should be in proportion. In general, three or four inches will not be too much. The flap should be somewhat longer for the inside, on account of the greater height of bone. In forming the flap, the protuberances on the plantar surfaces of the scaphoid and cuboid should be avoided, as well as those of the first and fifth metatarsal farther forward. In persons of advanced years, the inter- osseous ligament is sometimes converted into bone, and a portion of the articular surfaces may be ankylosed ; in this case, the small saw should be at hand to terminate the operation. Before puberty, on the other hand, the bones will be often found in the state of cartilage, or soft epiphysis, in which case the amputa- tion might be performed without following the line of the joints, which might be left as far