CALCULUS. Instead of showing themselves in the form of crystals, the phosphatic salts much more commonly occur as amorphous sediments, and with symptoms of a far more distressing cha- racter than have been described above. A phosphatic state of the urine, however, can hardly be regarded as an original and idiopa- thic malady : it is very uniformly the sequence and complement, as it were, either of some serious general constitutional disorder, or of a state of great irritation, often of structural disease of one or other of the urinary organs. We therefore find it occurring among the unhealthy, ill fed, and worse clothed children of poor, ignorant, and profligate parents ; or otherwise, when the heyday of life is gone, and the system is feeling the effects of an ac- cumulating load of years, of over-exertion whether of mind or body, and perchance of excesses committed in earlier life, circum- stances by each and all of which it is often apparently induced. Causes.—Local and accidental causes, how- ever, seem in many cases to be intimately con- nected with the secretion of a urine that con- tains an excess of the phosphatic salts. Strains and injuries of the back, concussions, or more serious mischief to the spine from blows, falls, &c. have, in numerous instances, preceded and apparently caused this state of urine. Again, almost all the diseases of the external urinary organs which require manual interference, such as the introduction of catheters, bougies, &c. ; irritable states of the bladder, induced by stricture in the urethra, enlarged prostate, the presence of a calculus or other solid foreign body within that cyst, are severally well known to be powerful causes inducing the kidney to secrete a urine that is over- loaded with the phosphatic salts. These are points of great consequence to be borne in mind, a knowledge of which, indeed, is of paramount and primary importance to who- soever would duly understand and success- fully treat this interesting class of com- plaints. The habitual secretion of phosphatic urine is always accompanied with great irritability of system, and much disturbance of the gene- ral health. The functions of the stomach and bowels are deranged : the appetite not only fails, but there is often a positive loath- ing of food ; the stomach is flatulent ; the bowels are constipated or purged, the evacua- tions in either case being of the most offensive and unhealthy description. The patient com- plains of listlessness and depression, there is not only a singular disinclination but an abso- lute inability to make any exertion. This state of weakness is progressive : the flesh wastes, and the features assume a care-worn and haggard aspect. The mind, too, suffers ; the patient almost invariably becomes morose and selfish, or peevish and discontented ; his w hole character is changed. The urine under these circumstances is not only disordered in quality, but it is often se- creted in excessive quantity. It is always pale-coloured, and if transparent when first voided, which, indeed, is rarely the case, it grows turbid as it cools, and lets fall an abun- dant precipitate of a white impalpable powder, consisting of the combined phosphates of am- monia and magnesia, and phosphate of lime. If brought to the boiling point, a floceulent deposit takes place, which has often been mistaken for albumen, but which consists principally of the phosphate of lime, as is immediately made manifest by the addition of a few drops of nitric acid, which re-dissolves the precipitate and restores or gives com- plete transparency to the liquid. On stand- ing, phosphatic urine hardly ever becomes perfectly transparent. Even within a few hours it is covered on the surface with a deli- cate pellicle, which is often iridescent, and on the lower aspect of which well-shaped crys- tals of the triple phosphate of magnesia and ammonia are rapidly formed and sink through the fluid when it is disturbed, or when they become so heavy as to break away from the film. The urine becomes ammoniacal, and then the deposit goes on still more rapidly than before. Sometimes it is alkaline even at the moment it is voided ; in any case, and when the temperature is between 50° and 70° Fahrenheit, it is not long before it begins to putrefy, and to evolve ammonia in abundance. This is another among the many disordered states of the urinous secretion, which will be found spoken of by writers under the title of Diabetes, with the epithet cht/losus. The case of the old man of 70, mentioned by J. P. Frank *, who, after having carried a heavy burthen, began to complain of pain in his loins, and to pass large quantities of milky- looking urine, would probably be rightly re- ferred to the class of cases we are considering. The milky look of the phosphatic urine at the time it is voided in some cases, and the fact of its letting fall a floceulent precipitate, when exposed to the boiling temperature, are circumstances which have often led to the supposition that it contained albumen. The mistake is at once detected by adding a drop of the muriatic or nitric acid, by which the precipitate is immediately dissolved, and the fluid rendered completely transparent. Treatment.—In undertaking the treatment of that disturbed state of the constitution which is accompanied by the secretion of phosphatic urine, particular attention must be given to the circumstances connected with which it exists, or by the agency of which it has been engendered. If the phosphatic urine be seen but as one among a host of symptoms denoting general constitutional dis- turbance, it must be met generally ; if it be obviously an effect of some peculiar local irritation, it will require to be attacked on the side whence it comes. In every case an endeavour must be made to restore the tone of the system at large, which will be found constantly to have suffered in a greater or 1 Epitome ile Curand. Ilom. Morbis, tom. i.