248 FRACTURE. Of open, exposed, or compound fractures.— The most important and frequent complica- tion has hitherto been known in our language by the term compound fracture ; but it may, I conceive, be much more readily understood by the name of open or exposed fracture. In the nomenclature of French surgery a compound fracture has justly a very different meaning from that hitherto usually attached to it by us. When a bone is broken in two or more places, or when the bones of the fore-arm or leg are simply divided, the case is called by French surgeons a “ fracture composee.” It is pretty generally apparent, both at home and abroad, that we are in fault in the use of the term compound ; and it cannot be denied, that the most definite expressions are desirable in such cases, both for the sake of the teacher and the pupil, the author and the reader. It is, therefore, without hesita- tion, though not without full deliberation, that the term compound is excluded from this trea- tise. Open fracture then is one in which a com- munication is established, either at the time of the fracture, or subsequently, between the frac- ture and the external air. If established at the time of the accident, either the agent producing the fracture penetrates to the bone, or, as more frequently happens, one of the fragments, usu- ally the upper, is driven through the integu- ments. When the communication with the exterior is not effected at the time of the ac- cident, it is owing, sometimes to the severity of the contusion of the soft parts over the fracture, which, in a fevv^days, slough, and ex- pose the bone, sometimes to the formation and bursting of an abscess in the seat of the fracture, sometimes to the pressure of the extremity of one of the fragments, not kept properly reduced, causing the ulceration of the skin. In whatever way produced, this is an aggravation of the injury much more serious than we might, previously to expe- rience, suppose. On the whole, there are but few bones that can be said to be ordinarily liable to this kind of injury. Almost every inch of bone is equally obnoxious to gun-shot wounds, and such as are of the nature of a stab ; so that on the field of battle nearly every kind of open fracture that may occur from direct force is to be looked for; ex- cept that the statistics ought rather to be in favour of honourable wounds and of su- perficial parts. Again, the crushing injuries of overwhelming violence affect all parts ; but while one series puts an end to life, another, affecting less vital parts, constitutes a class of open fractures, which usually require the treat- ment of the surgeon. A solution of continuity effected in a bone by incision, as w'hen the humerus, for example, is divided by a sabre-cut,is a peculiar fracture. Some of the circumstances attending such wounds of bone, render them more unman- ageable and difficult of cure, than mere frac- ture. Of these circumstances the most import- ant are the following. The cutting instrument, passing through the bone with great force, pro- duces greater contusion than occurs in most fractures. If the wound have cut through, or sliced a piece from a bone, it is very diffi- cult to maintain the cut surfaces in contact, on account of their smoothness, and the complete division of the periosteum ; the least move- ment changes the relative situation of the fragments, and disturbs, or breaks up, the work of reparation, which nature has already begun. A wound of a bone necessarily com- municates externally, and, so far, is similar to every other fracture which has external com- munication by means of a wound of the soft parts, and which, as we shall see, is much more serious, than one in all respects similar, with the exception of the external communication. Some other complications of fracture.— There are still numerous complications of fracture w'hich, though individually rare, are highly deserving of the attention of the surgeon. Indeed, the lesion w’hich ranks a fracture as open, is nothing more than one particular and peculiarly impor- tant complication ; and a division of frac- tures, viewed in the light in which we are now regarding them, into simple and com- plicated, is much more logical than the one usually adopted. The rupture of a consider- able artery, or of a large vein, or the lace- ration of a principal nerve, is a serious com- plication of fracture. It may be occasioned by the same cause as the fracture, or by the sharp edge of a fragment of bone. These im- portant parts often escape most remarkably, by favour of the loose cellular tissue in which they lie, separated from the bone, and of their unconfined course nearly parallel to it. The ruptured blood-vessel may give rise to danger- ous or fatal haemorrhage, if it communicates with an external wound; or otherwise to a dif- fused false aneurism, w'ith all the dangers ac- companying that disease ; or to extensive effu- sion of venous blood under fasciae and among the muscles. There is great reason, in either of these two latter cases, to apprehend the super- vention of gangrene. The injury to the nerve may give rise to paralysis, or convulsive move- ments of the limb, to excessive pain, or the most acute inflammation. When the bone is broken into a great number of small fragments, called splin- ters,—as happens when the fracture is caused by a spent cannon-ball, the wind of the ball, as was formerly supposed, or by any very heavy body, as the wheel of a loaded dray passing over the limb,—the com- plication, known by the name of a commi- nuted fracture, exists. This complication is always accompanied with severe contusion of the soft parts, itself a serious complication. The splinters in a comminuted fracture are sometimes completely isolated, and may act as foreign bodies; sometimes they retain but slight connexion with the soft parts, which is not sufficient to maintain their life, and thus