153 AMPUTATION. formed for the removal of a considerable extent of parts, the abdominal limb for instance, a de- gree of irritability in the bladder, in some rare instances, proceeding to inflammation may be observed. This phenomenon in all probabi- lity is nothing more than a modification of the reactionary effects of the operation. Some surgeons, however, explain it in a different way, from observing that its occurrence is coincident with the application of a blister. At all events, it is certain, that we are some- times compelled to use a catheter after ampu- tation in persons who had never previously felt the slightest symptom of derangement in the functions of the urinary organs, and taking it therefore for granted that such a predisposition exists, we should be very cir- cumspect in the employment of such remedies under the circumstances. Phlebitis.—The phenomena accompanying this species of inflammation have been long known, but the rationale of their development has been till very recently but imperfectly understood, and even now the ingenious theory on which it rests is not universally acknowledged. The inflammation of the veins, either alone or in connexion with the surrounding parts, is manifested by symptoms, which deserve par- ticular attention, for it is only by taking such steps at the very outset, as are calculated to arrest their progress, that we can hope to save the patient’s life. When pus is formed in the veins, and the internal organs are irritated by the circulation of this fluid with the blood, the patient’s doom may be said to be sealed, as the case is almost beyond the resources of art. The inflammation of the veins is marked by a train of local and general symptoms : the stump feels tense, swollen, and excessively painful; the removal of the dressing, however carefully performed, is torture to the patient; the fever runs high, and is continued beyond the ordinary period ; the tongue becomes dry and dark, and the strength gradually fails. The course of these phenomena is rapid. Matter is soon formed, which, mixing and cir- culating with the blood, gives rise to another and more formidable train of symptoms: the patient has sharp rigors, and is very much agitated; to these succeed a burning hot stage, and an abundant and clammy perspira- tion ; the countenance is sunk and earthy, the pulse frequent, small, and trembling ; the skin is clammy, or very hot and dry; in a word, the traumatic has been converted into a ty- phoid fever, and the prostration of strength is extreme. The adhesions that had taken place in the stump are dissolved ; the character of the suppuration is altered ; the surface of the wound is greyish and gleety; burning pains are felt up the limb ; the muscles retire within their sheaths, and the bone protrudes. If we now turn our attention to the patho- logical alterations that have taken place in remote organs, we shall see how extensive and deadly the lesions are which follow the inflammation of the veins. Collections of pus are found in the lungs and liver, in the serous cavities, and in the articulations ; they are also found, though less frequently, in isolated focuses in the spleen, kidneys, or diffused in the cellular tissue, and even in the substance of the muscles. In the parenchymatous or- gans these focuses are observed, sometimes in the same organ, progressing through the va- rious gradations between a simple stain or ecchymosis and a true purulent collection. Analogous differences are observed in the conditions of the altered product itself; in some instances, as in the lungs, pure pus may be pressed out of the small branches of veins; in others, as in the liver, the pus seems to be blended with, or infiltrated into isolated points of the organ which are softened, and of the consistence of cheese; the circumference of these points is highly injected. Some years ago, it was supposed by Vel- peau, Ribes, and others, that these formations were produced by the deposition of pus which had been absorbed at the suppurating surface. This was the opinion of Quesnay, who ima- gined that the pus was not formed in the vessels, but that, being carried into them by the absorbents, it was subsequently deposited by those vessels throughout the different or- gans of the economy. M. Dance’s researches on this interesting subject, have led to a different and perhaps to the correct explanation of the mode in which these lobular alterations are produced. M. Dance states that the pus formed by the local inflammation of the veins is intimately mixed with the blood, which being thus rendered more fluid, is extravasated in the cellular interstices of the organs ; it here acts as a foreign body, determining an inflammation of a peculiar character, passing rapidly through its several stages, and terminating necessarily in suppuration. (See Purulent Depots.) When the first symptoms of this very for- midable accident are observed, it will be best to soothe the stump with emollient and nar- cotic fomentations or poultices. General bleeding will be indicated according to the state of the patient. In the second stage, the strength of the patient must be sustained, and for this purpose, wine and bark have been favourably spoken of. Blandin was success- ful in a case which he regarded as hopeless, by powerfully exciting the secretions, and by the use of blisters, both to the limbs and trunk. The other accidents common to operations in general, such as, excessive pains during and after the operation, lipothymise, and even death itself, will be noticed under the proper head, Operation. Progress of cure in the stump.—When the process of cicatrization goes on without inter- ruption, it differs in no respect from what is observed to occur in other wounds. The period immediately after the amputation, and up to the third or fourth day, is marked by the twitchings and spasms of the limb, and a degree of inflammation, in general slight.