ANKYLOSIS. 310 is often the happiest termination for which we can venture to hope. Cartilage.—Ulceration of this tissue is a disease with which we are, as yet, very little acquainted, though the admirable researches of Sir Benjamin Brodie have satisfied the majority of English surgeons of its existence, and not unfrequent occurrence. It is proba- ble that the ulceration may sometimes cease, either spontaneously or through the remedial measures of art, before the cartilage has been extensively removed, and that the joint may be restored to its natural condition, but in many cases, the destructive process is carried on until the bone is denuded. Here, again, ankylosis is a desirable termination. If the patient be of good constitution, the inflamma- tion excited in the bone by the ulceration of the cartilage, may be very slight and transient; in which case, lymph will be rapidly effused from the exposed surface, and adhesions will be formed which sometimes undergo ossifica- tion ; but more generally assume, in process of time, a ligamentous character. In other cases, where the patient is of a less happy temperament, the bone becomes decidedly diseased ; the matter effused from it is either non-plastic, or is prevented from forming ad- hesions, by the presence of purulent fluid in the cavity of the joint, and the denuded sur- faces may be felt to grate on one another. If amputation be resorted to, the joint is found full of a sanious fluid, and the articular surfaces are dark and bare, or covered with soft, tender granulations, but no attempt at ankylosis has been instituted. Mr. Mayo speaks of ankylosis being produced by an effusion of false membrane, from the substance of the cartilage, after an ulceration which had affected only its surface. This is an appear- ance which I have never seen, nor do I be- lieve it to be of common occurrence. I am well satisfied, that in nine-tenths of the cases of ankylosis following ulceration of cartilage, the bands of adhesion by which the ankylosis is effected, have been effused from the sur- face of the denuded bone. Bone.—This structure may be either pri- marily or secondarily involved in joint dis- eases. It may be but slightly inflated from sympathy in the inflammation of a neighbour- ing tissue, or it may be in a state of idiopathic and most obstinate caries. In either of these cases ankylosis may be the consequence. If the bone be merely inflamed, this result will be attained in the way which has already been described—by the effusion of plastic lymph from its surface, after the removal of the car- tilage, and the adhesions which are formed with similar effusion from the opposed articular surface. When the bone, however, is in a state of caries, whether idiopathic or acquired, it too frequently happens that all the efforts of nature and art combined, are incapable of arresting the destructive process, and the patient sinks, or submits to amputation, with- out any attempt at ankylosis having com- menced. If, however, the patient’s constitu- tion be of sufficient strength to bear him through the struggle, or, to use the favourite phrase of our neighbours, “ si la nature, se- condee convenablement par l’art,” arrests the disease, the portions of ulcerating and soft- ened bone are thrown off by granulations which spring up from beneath, the whole cavity of the joint becomes lined by these vascular and fleshy formations which inoscu- late with one another, and an intimate adhe- sion is formed between the articular surfaces. In process of time these adhesions, like all newly formed parts become pale from a dimi- nution of their vascularity, and put on the character of ligamentous tissue, or are con- verted into bone by the deposit of phosphate of lime. Fig. 103. ebumated partly at its neck, and forming one mass of cancelli with the body of the pubis and ischium ; c, internal and sawed surface of the ilium; d, portion of the pubis. From Mr. B. Cooper. We have here given under an arrangement which seems to us better adapted than any other for comprehension and retention, a general outline of the inodes in which anky- losis may be produced, and we have included under their appropriate heads, the anatomical characters of different species of the affection. A few remarks on the conditions which deter- mine the formation of true in preference to false ankylosis will close this part of the sub- ject. It is incorrect to suppose, that osseous ankylosis is a very common occurrence, even after the most severe and protracted diseases