CALCULUS. 5G1 With regard to the treatment of the symp- toms attending the passage outwards of biliary calculi, all are agreed that we possess no means of dissolving or disintegrating these concre- tions. Our principal efforts ought to be directed to promote their discharge. But the pain which the patient is suffering when we are first sum- moned to a case of biliary calculus, is usually so great that our first object very generally is to endeavour to relieve this. Opium is the me- dicine upon which we rely under such circum- stances ; and if aught will assuage severe pain, it is solid opium, in a sufficient dose. Opium, however, sometimes fails to bring relief; and then we have been recommended to try the effects of a full dose of the aqua lauro-cerasi and laudanum mixed together. The warm bath is also constantly to be employed ; sometimes a large bladder, filled with ice, laid over the epigastrium, has brought'relief after every thing else has failed. It is also occasionally necessary to have recourse to bloodletting, especially when the pain has become fixed in a point, and this is found to be tender even on the gentlest pressure being made. The pain somewhat appeased, purgatives are the medicines upon which we place our chief reliance for getting rid of gall-stones. From five to ten grains of calomel, in combi- nation with one or two of opium, followed by the common senna draught with salts, is proba- bly the best medicine to begin with ; and in- deed the same formulae may be continued and repeated as often as there is occasion for them. Purgatives are unquestionably advantageous, solely from their power of exciting the secern- ing organs generally, and the liver in particu- lar. There is a flood of bile, poured out behind the calculus, which must have great influence in urging it onwards. In France, the popular and routine prescription, in cases of gall-stone, is a mixture of sulphuric ether and oil of turpen- tine. This is, in all probability, prescribed with a view to its solvent action upon the cal- culi, but it owes its efficacy and its reputation entirely to its antispasmodic and purgative properties. Graduated and regular exercise, as soon as it can be borne, is very much to be recommended ; and if the patient’s circum- stances are such as will enable him to remove for a season, to the site of one or other of the gently aperient mineral waters, there is no course that can be advocated, more likely to prove of permanent benefit to him. When gall- stones excite inflammation and ulceration in the passages within which they are confined, and show a disposition to make their way out- wards, an opening should be made for them as soon as consolidation is believed to have taken place between the internal canals and the ab- dominal parietes. In this way, as many as 100, and even 140 gall-stones have been got rid of; and though the openings have generally remained fistulous for a considerable length of time, still they have always closed in the i long run, and the cases have finally done well. Urinary Calculi.—Calculus, stone, gravel; pierre, gravcllc, Fr.; Hamslein, Grics, Ham- vox.. i. gries, Ger.; pietra, Ital.—Few subjects have at- tracted a larger share of general attention, or been held of higher interest than that which in- volves a consideration of the formation and treatment of urinary calculus. The earliest re- cords we possess of medical experience, show that practitioners were familiar with the symp- toms induced by calculous complaints. But the entire pathology of the disease, and the very accurate knowledge now possessed of the chemical nature and variety of the concretions formed from the urine, and of the circum- stances under which deposition from this fluid takes place, is the product of very recent times. The true principles upon which the treatment of these diseases is to be undertaken, is also the offspring almost of our own day. In no department of practical medicine are we so much beholden to chemistry as in this ; indeed, until Scheele discovered the lithic acid, in the year 1776, no step in advance could with certainty be made. By this dis- covery the Swedish chemist had the distin- guished honour of directing enquiry into the proper path; it was Wollaston, who made the next onward step. In the year 1797 he published a paper “ On Gouty and Urinary Concretions,” in which he defined the true nature of the chalk stones of gouty subjects, and the elementary composition of three species of urinary calculi, in addi- tion to that consisting of lithic acid already discovered by Scheele, namely, the calculus of the mixed phosphates of ammonia, magnesia, and lime, that of the oxalate of lime, and that of the phosphate of lime. In this year also were published Mr. Cruikshank’s observations on the urine in various diseases, as an appendix to the second edition of Dr. Rollo’s work on Diabetes. These observations of Mr. Cruikshank are highly interesting, and were noticed or trans- lated in most of the Continental periodicals of the time. In 1799, Fourcroy and Vauquelin published their paper on urinary calculi, going over the ground already trodden by Scheele and Wollaston, and adding a knowledge of one new calculus, that, namely, of the urate of am- monia, to those previously described. In 1810, we again find Dr. Wollaston in the field, he having in this year discovered and described a calculus of a peculiar substance, capable of combining equally with alkalis and acids, which he named cystic oxide. In his “ Essay,” pub- lished in the year 1817, Dr. Marcet described two new calculi, the xanthic oxide calculus, and the fibrinous calculus. Although boasting of no new discovery, the year 1821 is remarkable for the publication of Dr. Prout’s work, en- titled, “ An Inquiry into the Nature and Treat- ment of Diabetes, Calculus,” &c. (2nd Ed. 1825.) The name of Dr. Bostock also re- quires particular and honourable mention in this place. His contributions to the chemistry of the urine in various pathological states of the system, stand almost alone in the annals of European medical literature, during a long series of years. He is the proper and imme- diate successor of Mr. Cruikshank in this O o