ERYSIPELAS. 151 chectic subject, may produce this form of the disease. Even the simple distention of the integuments by the accumulated serum of oedema is sufficient for its production ; but it is much more frequently brought on by punc- tures made to draw off the serum of anasarcous limbs, or by rubefacient topics applied to them. At first there may be no change of colour of the part, or the eruption is pale and yellowish with a smooth glossy surface, which retains for some time the impression made by the finger. The heat is also less than usual, as well as the pain, which is sometimes how- ever, considerable enough, especially to the touch. The vesicular form of the eruption is rare in this variety, and when phlyctsense appear they are small and flat. (Edematous | erysipelas sometimes disappears in a few days, i without more gravity than in the simple form, especially when the disease has commenced by the cutaneous inflammation ; but when in- filtration, particularly of old standing-, has preceded the eruption, a suppuration of a bad nature readily ensues, eschars form on diffe- rent parts of the surface, the cellular texture i partakes of the same alteration, rapid exhaus- tion is induced, and death generally closes the scene in the midst of circumstances of local - asthenia, gangrene, and hectic fever. Phlegmonous erysipelas.—Syn. Diffuse phleg- i mon, Dupuytren ; erysipelatous phlegmon, Rayer ; pseudo-erysipelas, Rust.—It is the most severe form of the disease, and in a sur- gical point of view the most important. It is to modern surgery that we are indebted for ! exact notions regarding this formidable dis- I ease. In the course of phlegmonous erysi- | pelas, the skin and subjacent lamellated cel- I lular tissue are invaded by the inflammation, I which is always accompanied with consider- I able constitutional disturbance. The order I of its invasion is not always the same, some- | times proceeding from the skin towards the i| cellular tissue, sometimes from this latter I towards the surface, and thence the denomi- nations of phlegmonous erysipelas, or of erysi- pelatous phlegmon. The causes of phlegmon- ous erysipelas are the same as have been already enumerated, but more generally of i the traumatic kind. It may not be unimport- l ant to know, on the authority of Dupuytren, | that the simple operation of phlebotomy j when even well performed and with an ap- propriate instrument, has frequently given development to this dangerous affection. Precursory symptoms.—“ The invasion of dif- fuse phlegmon,” says Dupuytren, “ especially when spontaneous, is announced by a more or less violent fit of shivering, followed by heat, a complete access of fever. This fever becomes continued, but with exacerbations and remis- sions to the number of three or four in the I day, giving rise to grievous mistakes, having been taken for the symptoms of intermittent | fever and treated accordingly. We consider it of the greatest importance to distinguish this symptomatic fever from real intermittent fever. A slight pain of the skin frequently declares itself twenty-four to thirty-six hours before the shivering takes place. We have often, when this pain was the only existing symptom, predicted the access of the phleg- mon. The skin then assumes a rose colour, not uniform but of a serpentine appearance, which might be taken for simple as well as phlegmonous erysipelas, if a slight oedema did not exist in the subcutaneous cellular tissue, and if the finger, when pressed on the parts, did not sink in them and leave a depression, which subsists till the re-established circula- tion brings them back to their primitive state. What medical man, unaccustomed to observe this affection, could from these sole pheno- mena announce the development of so terrible a disease ? However, the symptoms soon become aggravated, the violence of the fever is redoubled, the finger pressed on the part meets with a marked resistance and no longer leaves an indenting &c. The local conditions are not always so de- fined ; but the precursory constitutional symptoms, varying in duration from twelve to thirty-six hours, constantly exist, and an unaccountable anxiety, repeated irregular shiverings succeeded by reaction and heat, anxious vigilia or distressing sleep, are a just cause of alarm to the patient. As the constitutional symptoms of phleg- monous erysipelas are analogous to those already ascribed to the simple form, we shall here confine ourselves principally to the expo- sition of the local pathognomonic phenomena of the disease. The division of them into three grades or stages, according to the gravity of the disorder, as professed by Dupuytren, is so pregnant with practical result that it ought ever to be preserved. First grade or inflammatory stage.—A sen- sation of w-eight or deep seated contusion, along with heat and pain, is felt in the seat of the disease. The redness is of a deep colour about the centre, while it remains rose co- loured or pale towards the circumference, and it returns slowly when effaced by pressure. The tumefaction is at first slightly cedematous, retaining for some time the depression pro- duced by the finger; but it soon loses this doughy consistence and is insensibly con- verted into marked tension and solidity, with- out any appreciable oedema, and no longer susceptible of being indented by the finger. Phlyctsense promptly appear on its surface, accompanied with burning heat and pungent pain. Sometimes red tense cords are seen extending to the ganglia appended to the part affected, and which have become also sw'ollen and tender, or painful to the touch. These local phenomena are accompanied with the various forms of high febrile reaction already described. In this stage resolution is possible, and is announced after three, four or five days, by a remission of the general and local symptoms, and subsequently by a furfuraceous desquamation. The convales- 1 Lemons Orales <le Clinique Chirurg. tome ii