333 ANUS. fascia of the perineum, in such a manner that the posterior border of each transversus perinei is lodged in the groove formed by the union of these two fasciae, and it is this union which effectually excludes the anal from the urethral portion of the perineum. The fascia of the obturator interims, and the fascia of the levator ani, form, by their union above and their separation below, a triangular space measuring rather better than an inch from side to side, and an inch and three quarters from before backwards. This space, on either side, is completely filled with adipose tissue supported by cellular bands, which are produced principally from the ex- ternal face of the fascia of the levatores ; and it is entirely closed in below by the overlapping of the gluteus maximus. By the arrangement, the union and the at- tachment of these several fasciae, it will be seen that not only is the anus fixed in its position, but that the connexion between the extremity of the gut and the urinary organs is so intimate and complete as to exclude the possibility of their separation ; that, on each side of the rectum, there is a recess, having aponeurotic parietes in every direction, and still more completely closed by the union and degeneration of its fascial walls into the super- ficial fascia covering that muscle, filled with a material sufficiently dense to support that organ, yet so yielding as to admit of its volume being augmented ; that in front of the rectum there is another but smaller recess bounded by the transversus perinei below, the deep fascia above, and by the line of union of the deep with the superficial behind ; and, that the surface of the sphincter externus is not implicated with any other fasciae, but is in direct contact with the skin. The skin advancing from the commutual sides of the glutei becomes darker in colour, and finer, and more extensible in structure, as it approaches the anus, where it is gathered into plaits which soon vanish as they radiate from this centre. It is furnished with follicles, small but numerous, especially at the verge, which secrete the unctuous product that always bathes these parts, and where the nates rub against each other the skin is provided with a quantity of soft hairs. The vessels which supply the anus com- municate freely with those which are distri- buted to the intestine itself, and like them they form a plexus around the organ. The veins, especially, are reticulated in the sub- mucous tissue, and are very obvious within and about the verge when the circulation is retarded. The arteries which interest us at present are a few branches, irregular in their number, which proceed from the internal pudic immediately on its entrance into the triangu- lar space on the side of the rectum. These, under the name of the external haemorrhoidal artery, supply the integuments and external sphincter, and, by ascending ramifications, they inosculate with others which proceed from the middle or lateral haemorrhoidal. Accompanying the external haemorrhoidal artery are the venae comites, which terminate in the external pudic vein, but the transit of the blood is mainly through the plexus formed by the middle and superior haemorrhoidal veins, so that in returning to the heart it takes the route of the portal system. This part is supplied with nerves of animal life, and with nerves of organic life ; the for- mer are derived from the sacral plexus through the medium, principally, of the inferior branch of the pudic nerve ; the latter proceed from the hypogastric plexus of the great sympa- thetic nerve. In the distribution of both these classes of nerves the bladder and the rectum receive their supply in common, there- by associating them in a disordered as well as in a healthy state, and affording us a clue to the explanation of phenomena that, present themselves when either organ is disturbed and which otherwise would be unintelligible. ANAL ABSCESS. That abscess in the neighbourhood of the anus should be of frequent occurrence, might be anticipated from a contemplation of the functions to be performed and the organiza- tion provided for their accomplishment. The volume of the rectum is ever varying, and the artificial habits of civilized life cause it to be the seat of stercoral accumulations, which be- come irritative, not only by retarding the blood in its passage to the heart, but, also, by their mechanical influence on the intestine and the adjacent structures, the nature of which is such as to favour, to the greatest ex- tent, the formation and the accumulation of pus. The circumstances under which the gut is shaped and fixed, render it liable to occa- sional perforation; for foreign bodies which have been taken into the stomach will some- times be arrested here, after having innocu- ously traversed the rest of the tube, and, by perforating, if the body be spiculated, or by ulceration if it be obtuse, become lodged in the cellular tissue which occupies the ischio- rectal space ; and in like manner, also, is abs- cess produced, by the careless or violent in- troduction of foreign bodies, such as glyster- pipes, bougies, &c., per anum. The parts between the ischia are, from their situation, exposed to injury from kicks, falls, &c., and force so applied frequently produces an abscess of a grave description. Tumours, originating in a stasis of the blood in the veins of the anus, and oftentimes becoming the sources of abscesses, do not depend entirely on the accu- mulation of hardened feces. The chief part of the blood passes from the veins of this organ into the inferior mesenteric vein, and whatever may arrest or retard the circulation in the portal system, whether it be the altered structure of the liver, pancreas, or mesenteric glands, the blood will be dammed up in the anal veins, thus constituting irritative tumours. (See Hemorrhoids.) But it is not so much to the causes, as to the nature, locality, and consequences of abs-