ANEURISM. 280 lished with such a degree of certainty, as to justify the surgeon in undertaking so bold an operation. In a case of spontaneous aneurism, such as that in which Sir A. Cooper operated, the chances of success are again materially dimi- nished by the progress which the disease must have made, before the surgeon would think of proposing so bold a step, and the ex- tensive obliteration which a wide spread tu- mour may have produced amongst the colla- teral vessels. Nevertheless we by no means intend to say, that the ligature under no circumstances should be placed on the aorta. The subjoined case, while it calls forth our admiration of the moral courage of the man, will present to the minds of most people, as it certainly does to our own, a strong justification of the mea- sures, which Sir A. Cooper resorted to, as the last resource to save the life of a fellow- creature. A porter, aged 38, was admitted into Guy’s Hospital, April 9, 1817, for an aneur- ism in the left groin, situated partly above, and partly below Poupart’s ligament. The swelling was considerably diffused, and pres- sure upon it was productive of great pain. On the third day after his admission, the tu- mour was double its former size, and the pul- sation had become less distinct. The blood could be felt within the sac, which was so large, that no operation was practicable with- out opening the peritoneum. Sir A. therefore waited in order to give the man the chance of a spontaneous cure. Notwithstanding venesection and compression were employed, the tumour continued to increase, and on the 20th June, a bleeding took place from a point of it, upon which a slough had formed. The bleeding was renewed at intervals, and on the 25th he was so much exhausted from loss of blood, that his faeces were voided involuntarily, and his immediate death was only prevented by keeping pressure upon the aperture. At nine o’clock in the evening, Sir A. made a small incision into the sac above Poupart’s ligament, and introducing his finger, tried if it were practicable to pass a ligature round the external iliac artery within the cavity ; but this was found to be impossible, as instead of the vessel, “ only a chaos of broken coagula” could be perceived. At the moment of with- drawing the finger, two students compressed the aorta against the spine, and the incision was then closed with a dossil of lint. He now determined to apply a ligature on the aorta itself, and made an incision three inches long into the linea alba, giving a slight curve to avoid the umbilicus, which was just oppo- site the centre of the incision. A small aper- ture was next made into the peritoneum, and introducing his finger into the abdomen, he enlarged with a probe-pointed bistoury, the opening of the peritoneum to nearly the same extent as the external wound. Neither the omentum nor the intestines protruded, and during the progress of the operation, only one small convolution projected beyond the wound. An opening was scratched with his finger-nail in the peritoneum covering the aorta, and on the left side of the vessel, passing the finger between the aorta and the spine till it came through the peritoneum on the right side. The needle was then passed under the aorta, and the ligature tied, care being taken at the same time to keep the noose clear of the intestines. The wound was closed with the quilled suture, and adhe- sive straps. The pulse during the operation and for an hour after was 144. The sensibility of the right side was greatly impaired. In the night he complained of pain in the abdo- men, but there was no tenderness on pressure. At first the lower extremities were cold, but the natural heat soon returned ; the sensibility still, however, continued imperfect, more es- pecially on the left side, where it was almost null. At eight o’clock next morning, the right limb had nearly recovered its natural warmth ; and at noon, its temperature was 94°, while that of the left, the aneurismal side, was only 87£°. He complained of pain in the loins, and his urine and faeces were dis- charged involuntarily. His pulse fell, he vo- mited, and had cold perspiration. He died between one and two o’clock on the second day, the aneurismal limb having previously as- sumed a livid appearance, particularly around the aneurism, and its temperature having gra- dually declined again : that of the right, how- ever, remained natural. On examining after death, there was not the slightest appearance of peritoneal inflam- mation, except just at the edges of the wound : the omentum and intestines still retaining their natural colour. The ligature remained firmly placed about three-fourths of an inch above the bifurcation of the aorta. The superior clot was more than an inch long; that filling the vessel below the liga- ture, extended an inch down the common iliac on the right side ; and the third clot on the left side, extended from the ligature to the aneurism. The patient died, not from peritoneal in- flammation, but from the want of circulation in the aneurismal limb ; a sufficient circulation was re-established in the sound limb, and it may be fairly presumed that the same would have been the case of the other limb, had not the vital powers, that of the heart espe- cially, been weakened by loss of blood, and had not many of the collateral channels, upon which a due supply depended, been oblite- rated by the extension and pressure of the aneurismal tumour. One end of the ligature was left hanging out of the wound. Sir A. Cooper has since stated in his lectures, that if he ever should have to perform the operation again, he should tie the aorta from the side, and behind the peritoneum, the cavity of which he would not open. Mr. James of Exeter performed the opera- tion of placing a ligature on the aorta on the