187 ANASARCA. to designate the union or consolidation of a fractured bone. ANAPLEROSIS, obsolete, avan\Tipoj<ng, “ filling up.” That part of surgical therapeu- tics whose object is to supply, by artificial means, parts that are wanting. (See Pro- thesis.) ANASARCA, Lat., avaaaoica, Gr., from dva, through, and aapE, the flesh ; Leibwasser, Hautwassersucht, Ger.; anasarque, Fr.; dropsy of the cellular mevibrane, Eng. The term im- plies a general serous infiltration of the cellu- lar tissue, but more especially the portion of it interposed between the skin and the mus- cles ; when the infiltration is not general, but circumscribed within a particular region, it is known by the name of oedema. Anasarca, like the other forms of serous ef- fusion, may be either symptomatic or idio- pathic ; it may be active or passive. Con- sidered without reference to the causes from which it may arise, the infiltrated condition of the cellular tissue, known under the term anasarca, results from the condensation of the animal vapour which is constantly exhaled from all parts of the cellular tissue, whether that condensation is produced by an excess of the secretion itself, or the absence of absorp- tion. As our notice of this affection is confined to the mere point of view in which it is sus- ceptible of relief or cure from surgical means, it will not be necessary to enter into a full disquisition of its causes, varieties, complica- tions, &c. We shall, therefore, only state in general terms, that it may depend upon ex- citement or irritation in the cellular tissue it- self, or its vessels; on inflammation, or ob- struction of the veins, or simply from any me- chanical impediment (as for instance, a tu- mour,) to the free return of the blood ; and on various organic alterations in the important organs of the economy, as of the heart, or its large blood-vessels, pericardium, lungs, kid- neys, &c. The causes of anasarca may very naturally be arranged into two classes: in one the symptoms are acute ; in the other they are chronic, and symptomatic of some primary affection. In the early stages of life, great activity of function prevails in the cellular tissue, erythematous inflammations are more frequent, and hence the greater frequency of the active forms of anasarca at this period of existence. \ outh, vigour, and the sanguineous temperament, therefore, are justly regarded as predisposing, while a too generous alimenta- tion, the suppression of haemorrhage, either natural or accidental; the sudden stoppage of perspiration ; or the impression of cold, especially after eruptive diseases, may be enumerated amongst its occasional causes. It has also been observed to come on suddenly, after violent emotions of the mind, or the disappearance of the symptoms of gout, &c. The characters of the passive or chronic anasarca are very different: here the pheno- mena are of the asthenic kind, and are dependent either on morbid affections of the heart, large vessels, lymphatics, of some of the principal viscera, in a word; or on direct debilitation, resulting from insufficient food or clothing, insalubrious habitation, frequent and considerable loss of blood, &c. The symptoms of this affection, derived as they may be from pathological conditions so essentially different, are serious, or otherwise, in regard to the evanescent excitement or permanent lesion from which they take their origin ; and they present a degree of variety dependent on the causes from which they arise. The sthenic, or acute anasarca that occurs during convalescence from scarlatina, is cha- racterized by the suddenness of its appearance and the rapidity with which it spreads. A great part, sometimes even the whole body, is swollen, although the colour of the skin is scarcely changed, or if it should be, it presents a very slight rosy hue ; it is elastic and sen- sible to the touch ; it also seems polished, and hotter than usual. When pressed upon, it does not retain the mark of the fingers, and it sometimes presents, at various points, an erysi- pelatous blush. These symptoms coincide with others of a constitutional kind. The pulse becomes hard and frequent; the coun- tenance flushed, the eyes brilliant, and the tongue parched. There is great thirst, but no appetite; and sometimes there is severe headache, sickness, and intolerance of noise or light. The urine is scanty and high- coloured. The patient complains of pains in the loins, or in the articulation ; he is listless, yet uneasy. Sometimes the severity of the symptoms is still greater: the abdomen is painful to the touch , there are colicky pains, with diarrhoea ; excessive difficulty of breath- ing, with irregular and quickened pulse, and extreme restlessness. The inflammatory, or active anasarca often occurs, however, without such well-marked symptoms of general reaction. Its progress may be extremely slow. The swelling begins in the feet, and ascends the legs, thighs, scro- tum, &c. The colour of the skin remains un- changed, and the augmentation of heat or sensibility is scarcely perceptible. The ex- citement of the cellular tissue, though obscure, is still the cause of the phenomenon. The in- filtration is not of the passive kind. When the anasarca is of the asthenic kind, or symptomatic of some serious lesion, the character and march of the symptoms are dif- ferent. Before any appearance of infiltration is shown elsewhere, the face is puffed up, and paler than usual, or the ankles are swollen, and present a doughy feel to the touch. The intumescence from this point proceeds at first very slowly. The skin feels cold, and its temperature is in reality reduced ; its colour is a dull white or yellow, becoming more and more glossy as the distension increases ; its elasticity or resistance diminishes, and it re-