492 BLOOD-LETTING. forms, wherein this system of small but fre- quently repeated local depletions are very be- neficial ; and I might quote numerous cases to show how inflammations of the eye, that have existed long, and for which a variety of local as well as general remedies had been em- ployed without success, were completely sub- dued by omitting all local applications, and merely applying daily one or two leeches behind the ears alternately, and as long as the symptoms continued to yield to the treatment'. There are many other organs, particularly the mamma and those of the genito-urinary system of both sexes, liable to those chronic inflammations, all which may be subdued by this system of small but frequent local deple- tions. In Congestion.—The observations I have hitherto made on the curative effects of blood- letting, apply chiefly to the treatment of dis- eases of an inflammatory character. But there is another class of cases in which the propriety and extent of depletion are indi- cated by a different assemblage of symptoms. I allude to congestion or plethora of a parti- cular organ or region of the body, a state very different from inflammation, and which can be artificially produced in the arm by tying a ligature round it, and thus distending the veins. In this state the capillary system, and more particularly the veins of the affected part, are preternaturally distended with blood, but there is no alteration of structure. Con- gestion ought not however to be confounded with irregular distribution of blood, exam- ples of which we have in flushings of the cheek, in friction on the skin, in the pre- sence of a mote in the eye, and in many of those headachs which are usually called nervous. Bleeding in these cases should not be carried to the same extent as in 1 Case.—A girl six years of age had the cornea of both eyes so dim that vision was nearly destroyed, and there was a pale redness of the whole sclerotica accompanied by an intolerance of light. She was pale, feeble, and emaciated, the circulation hurried, and the digestive organs considerably disordered. I recom- mended two leeches to be applied behind one ear every day, one grain of calomel to be given every morning, and after a week, every second morning for a few times. Some of the liquor of potass combined with rhubarb was given twice a day. Such was the manifest benefit derived from the leeches in this patient, that they were daily continued for two months, and afterwards one was applied daily for another month, when the cure was effected. The result of this treatment was that a perceptible amendment continued to take place daily in her con- dition. The redness of the eyes gradually subsided, the cornea regained their transparence, the digestive organs improved, and she accumulated health and strength, so that at the end of the third month she required no further treatment, and no local remedy was ever applied to the eyes. The patient was brought to me upwards of a year after this illness, with a very extensive inflammatory swelling of the soft parts covering one of the tibiae. I pursued the same system of treatment, and it was not until several week's had elapsed, and that besides the use of calomel she applied leeches daily, that the swelling was subdued. inflammations, and the blood is to be re- moved either from the vessels immediately connected with the diseased organ or remote from it. Leeches applied on the frontal vessels, or on the ethmoidal vessels ramified upon the septum of the nose, or applied behind the ears, or cupping the nape of the neck, are the modes best adapted for relieving congestion within the head. Leeches or cupping may, in like manner, be employed on the parietes of the thorax and abdomen in congestions of the viscera; and leeches on the verge of the anus are par- ticularly beneficial in abdominal congestions, from the connexion which the hsemorrhoidal veins have with the portal system ; many dis- eases of the viscera are essentially benefited by the application of leeches to the feet, vulva, and margin of the anus. Blood-letting of this kind may often be most successfully employed in restoring the sup- pressed menstrual flux. For this purpose, the bleeding should be had recourse to the day previous to the approach of that periodical discharge ; by thus relieving the system of more or less disturbance, the natural functions are more perfectly performed. In such cases the application of leeches should be to the feet, the vulva, or inside of the thighs. In specific diseases, such as syphilis, cancer, scrofula, gout, and rheumatism, blood-letting is often a useful remedy, when employed within certain limits. The same observation applies to persons affected with gouty inflammation in any organ. In some cases, a certain extent of depletion will mitigate the inflammatory symptoms at- tending gout, but if the depletion be carried beyond that, it no longer alleviates the pain; the whole system seems to suffer, and the local disease is apt, as in rheumatism, to assume a chronic and unyielding form. The inflammation which is caused by a burn or scald may be alleviated by the same plan of treatment *. In Suppurated Parts.—It is usually con- sidered that when an inflamed part has ad- vanced to suppuration, the after treatment ought to be altogether directed to the healing of the abscess, for which purpose free inci- sions are frequently employed. It is true, that usually when the contents of an abscess 1 A youth about ten years of age, whilst amusing himself with gunpowder, a large quantity ignited, ana severely scorched his face. When I saw him a few hours after the accident, I found the whole face much swelled and scorched, and the eyes closed from the swollen state of the eyelids. He had great pain, and the pulse, though not frequent, was firm and unyield- ing. He was immediately hied in the arm until he became faint, which had the effect of alleviating the pain, and diminishing the swelling. Leeches were ap- plied behind each ear alternately whenever pain re- turned, and these were repeated morning and evening until the inflammation of the integuments was com- pletely subdued; and whilst this treatment was em- ployed, the bowels were, at the same time, fully evacu- ated, the patient kept on the antiphlogistic regimen, and the common liniment of lime-water and linseed oil applied to the burn.