486 BLOOD-LETTING. pointing out particular states of the vascular system. We shall thus learn that there is a great variety in the pulse of different persons in health,—in the number of beats at the dif- ferent periods of life, and at different hours of the day, and that there is frequently a diffe- rence in the pulse of the two arms of the same person,—and, moreover, that the pulsations of the heart and arteries do not always corre- spond. The pulse, too, is usually found more frequent in women than in men, and in the morning it is slower than in the latter part of the day, its quickness being increased by va- rious bodily and mental stimuli. To all these differences our attention ought to be directed as points of great practical utility. The Cardiac Pulse.—The pulsations of the arteries, and those of the heart, will be often found not to correspond. I do not allude to the number of the pulsations, but to their strength and other qualities. Indeed it may be stated generally, that where the pulse at the wrist is contracted and difficult to com- press, the heart will be found to beat with an increased degree of vigour. Hence an in- creased impulse of the heart may be regarded as a useful guide in the employment of blood- letting, and when taken into account with the incompressible state of the radial pulse, will afford additional confidence in deciding upon a depletive system of treatment. A knowledge of the heart’s impulse, or the cardiac pulse, can only be acquired, like that of the radial pulse, by frequent examination and we ought carefully to cultivate the oppor- tunities of making ourselves equally familiar with the peculiar changes in the actions of the heart as with those of the pulse. The Local Pain.—In almost every case where general blood-letting is necessary, be- sides the altered action of the vascular sys- tem, we have also, more or less, local pain. But the degree of pain, whatever organ the in- flammation may affect, cannot be considered as a measure of the violence of the accompa- nying inflammation. On the contrary, per- sons often suffer severe agony when there is but slight inflammatory action ; whereas, when the inflammation has arrived at its acme, the local pain becomes dull and obtuse, and di- minishes in intensity. Whilst it is always expedient to have re- course to blood-letting, if there is a fixed and unceasing pain, increased by pressure, and ac- companied by an alteration in the radial and cardiac pulse, it is of great importance to be aware, that though the local pain is usually alleviated, as well as the action of the vascular system subdued, by venesection, yet general bleeding must not be continued, nor repeated, as long as the local pain remains. On the contrary, when all febrile excitement has been subdued by bleeding, any pain may be then alleviated by opiates, either taken singly, or combined with calomel or antimony, local bleeding with leeches may be necessary, or the pain may yield to a blister or a sinapism. Where local bleeding is employed, the degree of pain is the chief indication, both for adopt- ing it, and for regulating its extent and repe- tition. Importance of the First Blood-letting.—There is no maxim of the practical importance of which I am more fully convinced than that the loss of a certain quantity of blood at the first bleeding, is of greater utility in stopping the progress of disease, where general bleed- ing is required, than the loss even of a much larger quantity of blood by several successive bleedings ; that is, in place of taking a quan- tity of blood, say sixty ounces, at three suc- cessive bleedings of twenty ounces each, per- formed within thirty-six hours, an infinitely greater degree of relief will be derived from taking two-thirds of that quantity at one bleed- ing. As thus not only will the progress of the disease be more quickly and decidedly checked, but the patient will be saved the loss of twenty ounces of blood. The good effect of abstracting so large a quantity of blood at the first bleeding, is no- thing more than might have been expected, as we know by experience that one great be- nefit of depletion is derived from the sudden change which it produces on the action of the heart and arteries, and it is evident that such change must be effected in a more decided manner by abstracting a large quantity of blood suddenly, and at one bleeding, than by taking away an equal quantity slowly, and at intervals. Unfortunately, in cases where bleeding is employed, there is too often a disposition to be sparing in the evacuation ; whereas in the generality of cases an effort ought to be made rather to take away as much as the pa- tient can bear, and not to desist until there be rational grounds to expect that a second bleed- ing will not be necessary. A good general rule for estimating the quantity of blood to be taken, will be found in the change produced by the venesection on the action of the heart and arteries. Nor is the diminution of the local pain, whilst the blood is flowing from a vein, to be entirely disregarded. But the only unerring guide, as far as I have been ever able to discriminate, is the change produced in the pulse. This change is indicated by the cessation of its “ incompressibility,” but it is rarely produced until fainting or syncope occurs. The pulse ought to be carefully watched after the fainting goes off, when it will be sometimes found that the sensation of incompressibility soon returns. If this takes place, more blood ought imme- diately to be allowed to flow until the feeling of incompressibility is entirely subdued '. 1 A young athletic officer complained of an intense pain in the head, accompanied with such depression, that he could with difficulty stand out of bed. His pulse, though not much altered, was incompressible. Upwards of forty ounces of blood were abstracted be- fore syncope came on. When 1 visited him two hours