FRACTURE. 384 course be devoid of. His method set the muscles in action too early, and deprived him of the advantage of completely flexing the knee; and also probably of the first contrac- tion which the living inflammatory formation had to undergo, and to which the most re- laxed (or elongated) and quiescent state of muscle is most favourable. Although the case cannot be said to have been one of much consequence, yet his plan tended to produce a longer medium of union than might have been obtained. It may be thought that experiments are still requisite to establish the doctrine here maintained ; and although I conceive the various facts which might be adduced are sufficiently corroborative of the principle, I can readily suppose that new and varied illus- tration of it cannot fail to make it more clear and efficient in practical application. To divide one tendinous head of a biceps, and the tendon of the same muscle near its inser- tion, in the same animals, thus leaving the process of repair, in the last instance, subject to muscular tension, and in the first, free from such influence, for about eight or sixteen days, would be an interesting test of the difference in the two cases: but, for my own part, I should examine the result of the experiment much less to seek a proof of my opinion, than to discover additional facts connected with it. Upon the foregoing principles, 1 conceive the future object of practice must be decidedly different to that of our former rules. It is doubtless a fortunate circumstance that in many cases, as in that of a fractured patella, surgeons have not been more completely able to exclude the action of the extensors ; but I do not doubt that they have done enough to render many a ligamentous union feeble, and altogether unable to resist the sudden and ungraduated action of the extensors. It seems to me not unworthy of record, that in the case of .fracture of the patella, Sir W. Blizard maintained that bandages to con- fine the fragments were worse than useless ; and he constantly limited his treatment to the use of antiphlogistics, and the maintenance of the straight position of the limb. The first object should be to obtain as close an union of the bone, or tendon as circum- stances will allow of. Secondly, within about three weeks (supposing the hope of ossific union to be given up) the part should be left under the influence of its muscles, in the slight- est degree ; and by slow degrees, while the new formation has time, and every other pos- sible facility given it, to be duly nourished, the tension which excites its development is to be progressively increased. Thirdly, it should be but very gradually, increasing from day to day, that the active motions of the part are brought into operation. After the patient, if an adult, had been five weeks confined, Sir A. Cooper allowed a little passive motion to be commenced, and daily increased in a gentle manner until flexion of the knee was quite restored : when the pa- tient was advanced in years, an additional week’s extension was persevered in. The former remarks on uniting ligament, should I think, modify the last rules : for under favourable circumstances of coaptation and constitution, five weeks may be too long a period to leave the parts deprived of all ex- tension. There is, however, less harm to be done by delay, than by precipitancy. Within a month, I conceive, the fragments may be left unconstrained ; in four or five days more, the splint, with the foot, may be lowered by daily degrees, and then removed ; for a day or two the limb may be moved about in the bed, without having recourse to flexion ; and it will be well that all considerable flexion of the knee be as long delayed as possible. It is said, with the method of treatment hitherto adopted, that when flexion of the knee is too early had recourse to, the uniting substance is apt to yield and become length- ened. Under the fear of such an occurrence, Boyer allowed two moilths to expire before he suffered flexion to be employed. If the liga- mentous uniting substance should prove long, and the power of the extensor muscles over the leg very tardily regained, John Hunter and others direct, that the patient may sit for a while daily on a table, with the knee bent over its edge, and thus exercise and raise the limb, having an increased weight (as of lead), at- tached to the foot, as the capability of exten- sion increases. I should be averse to this practice if it might be avoided ; and I am further of opinion that it is far better to se- cure a straight splint gently behind the knee, and let the patient go about, thus to exercise the muscles, with a straight leg for weeks. Finally, however, it may be by extreme flexion only that the extensors can be excited or enabled to act. Mr. Hunter thus ex- presses himself:— “ I called with a friend to pass a day x>r two with a family in the country. The lady of the house had had her knee fractured, and had been treated according to the maxims the surgeon had learned while attending the Lon- don hospitals ; which, at that time, were to leave the whole unconfined, and take no mea- sures to bring the portions of bone together. She recovered from the accident, but was totally unable to use the limb, and had to be moved about in a chair. Her leg was made to swing backwards and forwards as she sat on a high table or chair; but still she had no power of contracting the rectus muscle, and as soon as the force that gave the motion ceased, the motion ceased with it. It was not until several years after the accident that I saw her ; and having spent a whole night in considering the probable cause of her loss of power, it appeared to me that the space be- tween the two attachments of the rectus being much shortened, while the muscle continued of the same length, the utmost degree of its contraction would scarcely be able to straighten itself, much less move the patella and leg also. I advised her to sit as before ;