ERYSIPELAS. 166 preceding varieties, find here their useful ap- plication, and should be appropriated to the same conditions that had directed their choice in those varieties. But these means contri- bute less to fulfil the immediate indications of phlegmonous erysipelas, than to combat the morbid constitutional conditions that may ac- company aliment and aggravate the local affection. Depletion is the first means to be resorted to, and venesection should be first and largely effected, and promptly followed by the appli- cation to the centre of the erysipelas of thirty, forty or fifty leeches according to the strength age, &c., of the patient, and to the violence and extent of the disease. General depletion should always precede the local abstraction of blood, for otherwise the application of leeches, as Dupuytrcn remarks, would but determine the flow of blood to the parts and increase the fluxion. If the violence of the symptoms persist, bleeding and leeches should be again resorted to and even repeated according to the case : full depletion, effected at the onset of the disease, often succeeds in crushing the incipient phlegmon, but its chances of success diminish in proportion to the length of time the disease has existed. Consequently it should only be employed largely at the onset of the disease: at a later period it should be effected with circumspection, and we should mostly confine ourselves, to local bleeding, as in case of failure the general debility that would ensue would materially aggravate the ulterior stages of the disease. The effect of depletion will be powerfully seconded by the use of the tepid bath, too much neglected in English practice : it should be, if possible, of an hour’s duration, and repeated each day. Various topics have been employed con- jointly with the above means, but few have obtained any credit ; even mercurial inunc- tions, the use of which is certainly sanctioned by numerous successes, as a general prac- tice has not inspired confidence. Blisters applied on the centre of the erysipelas were long used and extolled by Dupuytren, but a more extensive experience taught him to con- fine their use more exclusively to the simple forms of the disease. “ If the symptoms,” he says, “ persist and increase, we dare not recom- mend their use : sometimes they determine a happy resolution, but at other times eschars have been the evidentresult of them Emol- lient topics are of more general use, but hot cataplasms are injurious in concentrating the heat and increasing the local fluxion : to be used with advantage their heat should not exceed the temperature of the skin. With respect to incisions at this period of the dis- ease, Dupuytren says, “they sometimes dimi- nish the inflammation and consequent suppu- ration, but they often also increase them . we should still, then, persist at this period in the application of leeches and refrigerants 2.” If the puncturing method of Dr. Dobson suc- ceed in this form of the disease as well as it appears to have done in simple erysipelas, it ought to find its application here ; but it is to be feared that the local abstraction of blood would be too inconsiderable to produce any sensible and permanent impression upon the march of the disease. It is in this stage of the affection that compression has been found to be eminently serviceable, and so advan- tageous have been the results that I have often seen Velpeau obtain from it, that I am at a loss to comprehend the discredit in which many still continue to hold it : they certainly justify the opinion, that this surgeon enter- tains, that the want of success attendant upon its use in other hands results from its having been badly applied. If not resorted to, cold topics will best fulfil the present indication of treatment, or camphor applied as directed by Malgaigne is amongst the means most deserv- ing of confidence. To resume, compression associated with large general depletion, repeated according to the urgency of the general and local sym- ptoms, or this latter, with large applications of leeches, which may be repeated when vene- section is no longer admissible, conjointly with tepid baths and sedative and refrigerant topics, are the means mostly to be relied upon in this stage of the disease ; but their use does not dispense with the administration of internal remedies, emetics, purgatives, dia- phoretics, &c. as may be required. In the second or puogenic grade, the spe- cial indication is to relieve strangulation, give free vent to the evacuation of pus, and limit its diffusion, the only means of accomplishing which are incisions. The few cases of suc- cess1 obtained by the partizans of compres- sion at the commencement of this stage of the disease, while yet the pus is disseminated, should not induce us to trifle with precious time by postponing incisions, especially when the disease is seated on the lower extremities, where, according to Dupuytren, it constantly terminates in suppuration 2. In France numerous incisions, multiplied according to the extent of the erysipelas, are preferred to a single incision extending along the whole length of the inflamed part, as practised by Mr. Lawrence. The principal object is to afford an easy outlet to morbid products and thus limit the diffusion of pus ; and the judgment of the practitioner should guide him both as to the number and extent of incisions necessary to fully accomplish this purpose ; and the consideration of the com- paratively negative results, as far as has been yet shown, exposing a larger inflamed surface to the contact of the air, producing larger wounds, and thus prolonging the exhaustion of cicatrization, and incurring greater danger of haemorrhage, is not to be overlooked in de- termining our choice. “ I do loudly protest,” 1 Le Guen Kerneison, Journ. dcs Connais. Med.- Cliirurg. 3c annec. Juillct 1835, and Velpeau, Lan- retie Fran<^aise, t. ii. no. !)2. 2 Op. cit. Dupuytren, Op. cit. 2 Ibid.