ECTOPIA. enlarged in all its dimensions. The tumour measured three feet three inches in length. The ‘patient was aged thirty-five when observed by Dr. Doper, and of robust and healthy appearance: she could distin- guish light from darhness with the left eye. The morbid growth appeared first at cetat. two, over the parietal bone. X. Translation. To this class we refer such irregular changes of position of the con- tents of the natural cavities, as cannot be in- cluded under the heads of Detrusion or Pro- othesis ; because, on the one hand no de- truding force is traceable in their production, and on the other, the displaced part remains in the cavity it normally occupies. Such, for example, is the displacement of the crystalline lens into the anterior chamber, or into the substance of the vitreous humour, which occa- sionally follows in consequence of destruction of the connections of the capsule of the lens to surrounding parts. The causes of acquired ectopise may be re- ferred to the following species. A. Extrinsic violence. B. Functional or fI" the disP,aCed Part organic changes C a. n J b. ii (. c. ii in adjoining parts in distant parts. C. Extrinsic violence and abnormal organic conditions combined. A. The production of displacement by extrinsic violence is sufficiently illustrated by luxations and diastases, and the frequent ac- companiment of fractures by some form of ectopia. Certain cases of inversion of the uterus are the result of ill-judged and violent traction of the funis or placenta, &c. B. Functional or organic changes, a. In the displaced part. These are comprised in : 1. Irregular nutrition. 2. Adhesion. 3. Exaggeration of natural motions. 4. Change in the state of natural con- nexion. 5. Irregular yielding under an expanding force, depending upon muscular contraction. 6. Organic disease. 7. Solutions of continuity. 1. As examples of displacement of a part in consequence of its irregular nutrition, may be adduced certain cases of anteversion of the uterus, apparently caused by hypertrophy limited to the fundus ; and of ectropium caused by thickening of the palpebral conjunctiva. 2. To the formation of vicious adhesions are referrible flexions, distortions, &c. following burns. 3. Invagination of the intestine is mainly ascribable to the exaggeration of the peristaltic motion of the bowel. 4. To dimi- nished cohesion of the walls of those parts to the adjoining textures are referrible certain instances of inversion of the vagina and lower part of the rectum. 5. To irregular yielding of the displaced part under an expanding force, is ascribable that flexion of the cervix uteri upon the body which we have already alluded G3 to as occasionally existing in the pregnant uterus. Muscular tension is in all probability the cause of the deficient yielding of the cer- vix. The effects of irregular muscular retrac- tion are better exemplified in that form of re- troflexion after delivery which has been re- cognised to depend upon unequal rapidity of contraction of the tissues forming the anterior and posterior walls of the organ. 6. Organic disease of the coats of arteries is the common forerunner of the various forms of sacculation of those tubes ; organic changes in the joints lead to dislocations of the spontaneous spe- cies, &c. 7. Solution of continuity of the bones is the cause of the obliquity attending fractures. b. In the adjoining parts. To this class belong : 1. Displacements. 2. Solutions of continuity. 3. Abnormal state of ligamentous tissues. 4. Abnormal state of muscular action. 5. Retention of excretions. 6. Abnormal liquid, solid, or gaseous accu- mulation. 7. The removal of this by absorption or otherwise. 8. Alterations of structure. 1. The occurrence of ectopia of one part as a consequence of that of another, is illus- trated in many cases of inversion of the uterus, wherein inversion of the vagina and pro- cidentia of the ovaries and Fallopian tubes are induced effects. It is also exempli- fied by the flattening of the brain, or more correctly perhaps, distortion of its different parts, in respect of each other, which must follow the Toltecan mode of treating the cra- nium. 2. To solution of continuity in the wralls of the cranium are to be attributed acci- dental protrusions of the brain, certain pro- trusions of the lung, &c. 3. The abnormal state of the ligamentous class of tissues re- ferred to, consists in a plus or minus condition of their tonicity. A displacement, depending upon the former, is seen in the flexion of the fingers, produced by permanent contraction of the palmar fascia ; of the latter, in that form of luxation which depends mainly upon extreme laxity of these structures. 4. Similar conditions of the muscular structure, in con- nexion with parts. The great majority of cases of curvature and distortion (tetanic curvatures, club-foot, &c.) are the result, either wholly or principally, of a loss of balance between the muscular forces normally acting in opposed direction upon the displaced part. Some species of deviation, as luscitas, are also commonly thus induced. The dis- placing effect of deficiency of action in all the muscles acting upon a part, is illustrated by protrusion of the eye from paralysis of its muscles. Irregular action of the muscles is the cause of certain dislocations. 5. Reten- tion of urine has been recognised as the occa- sional cause of uterine retroflexion. 6. Of the influence of neighbouring solid, liquid.