289 ANGEIOLEUCITIS. The general symptoms have less of the in- flammatory than of the adynamic character, atid do not begin to be manifested till the time when the pus, secreted and exhaled by the veins, commences to circulate with the blood. Their development is then rapid. The rigors and tremblings are longer and stronger, although more irregular ; the pulse is smaller and more unequal ; the tongue is more foul, and more frequently red, and then dark, before it becomes dry and incrusted. The agitation, anxiety, heat, and thirst are less ; the delirium, and irregular sweats come on more quickly. An expression of stupor is soon observed in the countenance ; there is diarrhoea or constipation ; the skin, which is of a grey or leaden hue during the cold stage, often assumes a gradually deepening yellow in the intervals of the rigors and tremblings. The resolution is more easily accomplished either before or after the suppuration becomes established, so long as the symptoms of puru- lent infection are not manifested. On the other hand, death almost always ensues, when the general symptoms are developed. The patient dies, or is out of danger, except in the case where the progress of the inflammation is irregular, much sooner than in the angeio- leucitis. Phlebitis, in a word, is formidable, more particularly from the kind of poisoning it causes, and by the facility it finds of extend- ing itself towards the great vascular trunks ; while angeioleucitis is infinitely more so, on account of the local disorders of a decidedly inflammatory nature that result from it. As a local inflammation, the former is very easy, the latter very difficult to check. As a gene- ral affection, the case w'ill be exactly the re- verse of this. Leeches, not general bleeding, will often arrest a partial phlebitis ; compres- sion, multiplied incisions, mercurial ointment, or flying blisters, will have the same effect. If suppuration takes place, and that the pus is not poured into the torrent of the circula- tion, the development of the general symp- toms will be prevented by the opening of the abscesses ; and though the disease may have been very extensive, it will be by no means serious. When the signs of infection exist, the local treatment is of no value whatever, and even the internal medication, whatever it may be, is of very doubtful efficacy. We see then, that if some points of resem- blance exist between angeioleucitis and phle- bitis, the points of dissimilarity are still more numerous. After the parallel just drawn, it would be no longer pardonable to confound them one with the other, except in the case of which it is easy to conceive the possibility, and I have myself witnessed more than once where the one w’as added as a complication to the other. The inflammation of a large vein, it is obvious, may be transmitted from it to the numerous lymphatic ganglions which sur- round it. In this case, the ganglions will be- come engorged, unquestionably, as in angeio- leucitis, and the infection of the blood will be effected as in phlebitis, but the very fact vot. i. of these two classes of symptoms being ob- served to be present together, will be suffi- cient to apprise the practitioner that these two diseases are united. The same thing would take place, but in an inverse sense, if the inflammation was transmitted from the veins to the lymphatic vessels. The succes- sion of the symptoms, or the order of their apparition, would moreover indicate which was the primitive affection, and which the complication. It must, however, be admitted that these two forms of inflammation exhibit a very close affinity in regard to their causes, their mode of production, and their deadli- ness. It would, therefore, be improper to attempt to isolate them by means of perfectly defined signs and limits. Their tendency to unite, both at the commencement, as well as through their intercourse, the symptoms that are common to both, and the difference as regards the dangers incident to them, are quite enough to challenge all the attention that the practitioner can bestow on the dis- tinctive characters of these two diseases. The symptoms of angeioleucitis could only have been mistaken for those of nevritis through inadvertence or the little attention bestowed upon it, as a distinct form of inflam- mation. Whether there be true nevritis, or mere neuralgia, the affection will be neverthe- less manifested by pains, which are at once radiating, dull, and lancinating,—pains which are not always augmented by pressure, which are liable to frequent exacerbation, and which follow, from the trunk to the branches, the known course of one or more nervous cords ; by the weakness or numbness of the part; by the absence of tumefaction, redness, streaks, erysipelatous patches, external suppuration, infiltration, and of all the other symptoms of phlebitis and angeioleucitis. Erysipelas. — The mistake, though more likely to be made in regard to erysipelas and phlegmon than nevritis, is not so much so in regard to phlebitis. If we examine the ques- tion attentively, we shall be readily convinced that angeioleucitis is more frequently mistaken for erysipelas than for any other affection, and the reason is this,—that many surgeons con- tinue to comprehend under the name of ery- sipelas many very different diseases, many forms of inflammation that are by no means identical. If a diffuse inflammation of the in- teguments were alone sufficient to constitute an erysipelas, there can be no doubt that an- geioleucitis, and even phlebitis, might in many instances be thus designated. But it is quite obvious that this mode of considering the matter is inadmissible ; else how can there be any agreement respecting the value of the therapeutic agents to be employed, or how can any opinion be formed as to the danger of the disease? We must conclude, there- fore, that it is of the utmost importance to distinguish these two forms of inflammation from each other. Common erysipelas is neither preceded nor accompanied by red streaks, or tumefaction of the lymphatic gan-