BRONCHOTOMY. 511 less distress than one pointed, rough, or ir- regular ; and 2ndly, according to the portion of the mucous membrane to which the body is applied, that of the trachea being far less sensible than that of the larynx. The history of the case is often so clear that but little ex- amination is necessary to show the nature of the accident, but in others it is very obscure. If it be in the larynx we should expect almost incessant harsh, dry, spasmodic cough ; re- spiration, according to Dr. Stokes “ eroupy,” but Mr. Porter says, “ always imperfect, but never loud or stridulous, as in acute cynanche trachealispain, increased on pressing the larynx, and paroxysms threatening suffoca- tion : the face becomes purple, cheeks swollen, eyes protruded, and a stream of frothy saliva flows from the patient’s mouth during his struggles. If the body be moveable, there are intervals of comparative, often of perfect ease, but paroxysms are again induced on its being drawn either into the larynx, or into one bronchus. To distinguish these symptoms from those of laryngitis, we have their sudden occurrence in a person previously healthy, or at least not suffering from any pulmonary disease. We remark that in laryngitis the sympathetic fever occurs previously to, or simultaneously with the local symptoms, but when from a foreign body, not until much irritation has been ex- cited. In laryngitis there are none of those complete intermissions to the paroxysms, which occur when a foreign body produces the symptoms, for though there are partial remis- sions, some stridor always persists. Lastly ; in laryngitis the difficulty of breath- ing is in inspiration ; but in the accident, in expiration. The last observation will also serve to dis- tinguish the case from one of spasmodic croup. We have the exposure to contagion, pre- vious catarrh, and the peculiar hoop, to dis- tinguish it from hooping cough. In this affec- tion, the difficulty of breathing also occurs in inspiration. These considerations will render the nature of the case pretty evident, and by the aid of physical signs we can make assurance doubly sure. The right bronchus being the larger, and more directly continuous with the trachea, is that into which the foreign body almost always passes. It may close this tube either completely or partially. If the obstruction be complete, both sides of the chest are clear on percussion, but in the right lung the respiratory murmur is abolished ; in the left it is puerile. If the obstruction be partial, we hear the respiratory murmur, diminished in proportion to the de- gree of the obstruction. In applying this test, however, it is necessary to remember that the murmur is naturally a shade weaker in the right, than in the left lung, therefore the dif- ference, to be valuable, must be considerable. These signs will be permanent if the body re- tains its situation, but if it be moveable, we have the sudden reappearance of the respiratory murmur when it passes up into the windpipe, and then laryngeal irritation is excited. The murmur is again abolished on the body re- suming its former situation. This occurs in no other affection of the lung. The physical signs are more obscure when the body remains in the larynx or trachea; but then we have the signs of irritation (si- bilous and sonoro-mucus rales) spreading from above downwards, not preceded by constitu- tional irritation, and occurring suddenly in a healthy person. There are also other signs, in themselves pathognomonic of the accident. In a case re- lated by Mr. M'Namara, he says, “ I could distinctly perceive that there was a mechanical obstruction to the exit of the air, produced by the ascent of the foreign body to the larynx, causing a perfectly audible sound, which resembled more that produced by strik- ing the tongue forcibly against the anterior part of the hard palate, when the mouth is closed.” In another case of his, a boy had a plum stone, with a hole in it, in his trachea, which he could whistle through. Mr. Liston says, “ a peculiar noisy characteristic rale is perceived on applying the ear, and a shock like the shutting of a valve can be thus appreci- ated, or even by the finger placed on the box of the larynx, when the foreign body, by the forcible expiration, is made to strike the rima.” Mr. Porter says, “ when the substance is loose, it is frequently in its motions upwards and downwards within the tube heard to strike against its walls with a peculiar rattling sound. This is heard to most advantage, when the patient makes a forced expiration, and the foreign body is drawn up towards the larynx.” A few months since a case occurred in St. Thomas’s Hospital of a boy into whose air passages, a fourpenny piece had entered. It lodged in the right bronchus, and I am told by some gentlemen who examined the chest, that a peculiar sound was heard, produced by the passage of air on each side of the metal, which gave an exact idea of the nature of the case. I have seen cases, however, where all the effects of a foreign body in the larynx, were produced by causes a little out of the usual course, and in the first the symptoms were so severe that actual suffocation was dreaded. A schoolboy was gaping at the dinner-table, when another threw a spoonful of salt into his mouth, some of which entered the larynx. The most violent spasmodic cough immedi- ately ensued, and he seemed for some time in great danger. The other case was that of a druggist’s apprentice, who was powdering euphorbium, without due care. A little of it appeared to have entered the glottis, for very similar effects were produced to those just stated. The obstruction in these instances being confined to the top of the tube, it being, as I conceive, produced wholly by spasm of the glottis,they would be peculiarly favourable for the successful performance of broncho-