761 CEPHALHEMATOMA. found the bone irregularly depressed and elevated. In unfavourable cases the tumour occasion- ally inflames and suppurates ; but even under these circumstances the infant, if otherwise healthy, may recover perfectly. In other in- stances the pressure of the blood excites dis- ease of the bone. Naegele relates the case of m infant in whom the incision of the tumour ,'ave issue to a considerable quantity of pus nd blood. Sixteen weeks after this, a la- iclla of bone came away ; and the patient dying with diarrhoea, a perforation an inch md a half in diameter appeared in the af- fected parietal. Kopp has known perforation followed by death ; and Osiander considers caries of the bone with gangrene of the inte- guments the natural effects of the effusion, if left to itself, and the forerunners of death. The experience of others proves this to be an exaggerated estimate of its danger. The opinions of writers on the prognosis of this affection vary. Michaelis pronounces it generally of most dangerous nature ; an opinion explained by his theory of its causes. Golis maintains that, left to itself, it is exempt from danger, but that incision and evacuation of its contents not unfrequently compromise the life of the patient; while Hore thinks that it invariably terminates rapidly and favourably, provided, these very same measures be pur- sued ’. Such of M. Valleix’s patients as died, perished of intestinal disorders unconnected with the effusion. Of Dr. Burchard’s forty- five patients, twelve died at periods varying from thirty-six hours to three years after birth ; six of these during the first three weeks of life, of whom four died with trismus or tetanus, (a fact which will be presently explained,) two in a state of marasmus : five of the other six fell victims to chronic hydro- cephalus. There can be little doubt that the contra- dictory character of these opinions originates in some measure in imperfect acquaintance with the diagnosis of the disease. Besides the presence of intra-cranial cephalhtematoma materially influences the event,—in five of seven subjects who died within nine weeks after birth and were examined by Dr. Bur- chard, intra-cranial co-existed with the exter- nal effusion. A circumstance which has contributed to involve this subject in obscurity is the rarity of the affection ; respecting its precise fre- quency however there is considerable diffe- rence "of opinion. Naegele met with seven- teen cases only in the course of twenty years’ extensive practice. M. Baron, physician to the Foundling Hospital at Paris, believes that it occurs once in about 500 births, and the experience of M. Yalleix at the same institu- tion is to a similar effect. Hore infers from his own observations that one in every hun- dred infants labours under it; Strcwe ex- amined 250 infants born at the Berlin Hospi- ’ The coexistence of intra-cranial effusion iu Ildrc’s cases may account for this opinion. tal, without detecting it once ; Boepp calcu- lates that it occurs once in every 150 births at the St. Petersburg Foundling Hospital; Dr. Burchard discovered it in fj, of the in- fants born at the Breslau Lying-in Hospital, while the subjoined calculations given by this author prove the variable frequency with which it exhibits itself in some other German towns :— Towns. Dresden ... Wurzburg Marburg... Berlin No. of years. Births. 8 1972 13 1992 7 910 8 1314 Cases. 6 2 4 5 Whence we have 17 cases in 6188 births, or 1 in 364. Moschuer and Kurzak affirm that the disease did not present itself in a single one of 18,292 infants born from 1789 to 1827 at the Prague Lying-in Hospital; but defective observation may here be very fairly sus- pected1. Treatment.—The use of discutient appli- cations, incision of, or the promotion of sup- puration in, the tumour, are the principal modes of treatment hitherto recommended. The discutient, which must be regarded as little more than an expectant, treatment, has been on the whole the most commonly em- ployed : infusions of aromatic plants, cam- phorated spirits of wine, hydrochlorate of am- monia, common salt, alum, &c. in solution, being the substances used for the purpose. Some writers consider this mode of treatment inapplicable when the tumour is of large size; others, as for example Gooch, recommend a trial of it under all circumstances, but are of opinion, “ that when the resolvent treat- ment has produced no change after a reason- able time, it will then certainly be advisable to open the tumour, lest the fluid should be absorbed in a putrid state or the bone injured by it this time is fixed by Naegele at ten or twelve days. The decomposition of the fluid is, as we have seen, a groundless fear. M. Yalleix adopts this practice, but upon diffe- rent grounds; he does not apprehend putrid absorption or caries, but conceives that in- cision will facilitate the adhesion of the soft parts to the bone. Moscati, Palletta, and Golis, treated these tumours by exciting suppuration ; the two former employing the seton for the purpose, the latter caustic potass. Although Golis quotes thirty-two cases in favour of this mode of treatment, it has now no advocates ; the relation of some of these cases is far from satisfactory, while its inventor himself admits it has sometimes produced fatal results, and on several occasions serious inconveniences. 1 The frequency of the affection in our own country remains to be decided. According to Goode not‘a week elapsed without the admission of a case of cranial blood swelling at the Foundling Hospital (at Nor- wich?); but common scalp swellings arc doubtless included in this estimate. Underwood, falling into the opposite error (iu which he is tacitly joined by his commentators), doubts that the affection ever occurs in England.