108 EMPYEMA. Seat.—The left side appears to be more frequently the seat of empyema than the right: if to twenty cases, collected by Hey- felder from different sources, M. Woillez’s nineteen be added, we have thirty-nine, of which twenty-four occurred on the left, fifteen on the right side. Double pleuritic effusion, or that affecting both pleurae, is extremely rare, and has been shown by M. Louis to be almost a pathognomonic sign of tuberculous disease of the lungs ; the two sides are then affected consecutively, not simultaneously,—that is, as regards the time of origin of the disease. Partial or circumscribed Pleurisy.—We have hitherto referred to cases of pleuritic effusion and empyema, wherein the entire serous tract is engaged. But a part only of the surface may be the seat of inflammation and its con- sequences. There are numerous varieties of partial pleurisy to which particular names have been given from the particular portion of the mem- brane implicated. Thus we have phrenic pleu- risy, when the serous investment of the dia- phragm is engaged; mediastinal, when the adjoining surface suffers ; interlobular (better interlobar), when an inflammatory accumula- tion is imprisoned hetween the lobes of the lung : for the complete description of these partial pleurisies, we must refer to medical works. It is necessary, however, to say a few words on that circumscribed inflammation of the apposed surfaces, or of one of them, which occurs indifferently at any part of the serous membrane, where previous adhesions may have shut out communication with the rest of the cavity. In cases of this kind, the different physical signs are regulated by the same laws, as those already referred to, in the precise situation of the effusion. Circumscribed dila- tation may become distinctly’’ manifest; we do not happen to have observed depression as a result of absorption under these circumstances, but nothing appears likely to prevent the pos- sibility of its occurrence L These cases have been pointed out, as more prone than those in which effusion is general, to terminate in de- struction of the costal or pulmonary pleura, and discharge of the fluid through the bronchi or into the cellular membrane. These effu- sions may be unilocular, bi/ocidar, or mu/lilocu- lar,—terms which explain themselves. Bilo- cular and multilocular effusion arises, when one or more portions of lung are firmly at- tached to the wall of the chest; the inter- spaces being filled with fluid. Numerous modifications of the physical signs arise in consequence of such adhesions ; the precise characters of those signs in each case varying with the number, form, and mode of at- tachment of the adhering tissues. The general character of the modifications thus induced is, that wherever an adhesion exists, the respira- tory murmurs are heard with a strong blowing 1 Dr. Williams mentions, that in eases of this kind he has found a partial contraction ; but the space once oc- cupied by the effusion was chiefly filled either with air or with a semi-solid curdy matter. Lectures, p. 96. quality, (often sufficiently marked to suggest the idea of hepatization,) and strong circum- scribed bronchophony exists within the same limits : in other words, the signs of condensa- tion are present. The signs derived from yielding of the thoracic parietes, and from detrusion of the viscera, are, in such cases, the main safeguards against errors of dia- gnosis. The different loculi of a pleuritic effusion of this kind may each constitute a perfectly shut sac, or they may communicate with each other: were the distinction of these cases practicable during life, it might become really valuable, as the operation of paracentesis would be inapplicable where there were seve- ral loculi independent of each other. Fig. 235. Fig. 235, after Williams, represents a remarkable form of multilocular effusion. We have now described, with as much closeness as appears necessary in a surgical w'ork, the states preceding and following em- pyema; the physical signs of this state have also been enumerated,—we proceed to a rapid survey of its symptoms. Symptoms.—Patients with empyema very rarely suffer from local pain ; and if, as is sometimes the fact, this be severe, it may be pronounced to depend upon recrudescence of inflammation in some portion of the pleural surface. Dyspnoea is almost always present, but varies in amount, as in the acute malady ; the voice is weak and unsteady ; cough is commonly present. There may be expectora- tion, or there may not: if there be, it an- nounces either the existence of some conco- mitant affection of the lungs, and then pos- sesses the characters observed in that affec- tion ; or it results from the escape of the con- tents of the pleura through the bronchi. This pleuritic evacuation may take place suddenly or gradually : when effected suddenly, there can be little doubt of the nature of the case,— the patient vomits, rather than expectorates, an immense quantity of fetid matter, and a decrease in the dimensions of the affected side very rapidly ensues. Where the discharge is gradually accomplished, some difficulty may