ERYSIPELAS. 152 1 Dupuytren, Op. cit. 1 Dupuytren, Op. cit. cence is generally more tartly than in the simple form of the disease, and oedema may persist for some days. Second grade, which may well be called the pyogenic stage. To the symptoms of progres- sion of the former stage, are added the irra- diation of the inflammation to a more ex- tended surface, a greater degree of tumefac- tion, which sometimes becomes enormous, an increase of pain with a feeling of deep tension and constriction, and a return of the doughy or, as it is called, boggy consistence of the parts. The general symptoms are aggra- vated in the same proportion, and distressing shiverings, agitation, discouragement, delirium, vomiting, diarrhoea &c., in various combina- tions, accompany these local disorders. After five or six days these symptoms seem to sub- side, and this fictitious improvement has fre- quently inspired the false hope of incipient resolution. “ We have insisted,” says Du- puytren, “ upon this period of deceitful stag- nation of the symptoms taking place from the fifth to the sixth day, which retains in doubt even the most experienced practitioners, and imposes upon physicians little familiarized with this disease, inducing them into the be- lief of an approaching resolution, when already suppuration is declared1.” Whenever these alternations of a slightly cedematous and boggy state of the swelling, followed by tension and resistance of the parts, to which succeeds again the boggy consistence, take place, accompa- nied with the progression of the symptoms above described, resolution is very difficult, and according to some almost impossible. It is of the utmost importance to appreciate these characters, in order to avoid a baneful security, when the greatest danger is impend- ing unless prompt and efficient succour be af- forded. if art cannot effect the resolution it can limit the progress of the suppuration, and of the various consecutive accidents that are inseparably appended to it. Sometimes the pus is limited, and presents the characters of circumscribed phlegmon, its formation being accompanied with throbbing pain, and the abscess, when opened, giving issue to well di- gested pus and healing promptly; but this occurrence is accidental, and does not pre- vent the diffuse form from ensuing. A serous or sero-sanguineous liquid impregnates at first the cellular tissue, but it is soon replaced by an exhalation of pus, at first disseminated in its various cells, but soon uniting into diffused collections. The disposition of the cellular texture per- fectly explains these two forms of purulent collection. The cellular tissue immediately under the skin is of an areolar texture, while deeper seated it is lamellated ; and thus col- lections seated in the areolar texture are cir- cumscribed, whilst diffusion is the character of those of the laminated cellular texture. The former may be met with in simple erysi- pelas, but the latter alone characterize the phlegmonous variety. Incisions made early in this stage give issue to a liquid formed of serum with a small quantity of pus ; but at a later period the proportions are reversed, and a considerable quantity of pus with little serum is evacuated. Third grade or gangrenous stage. The sero- sanguineous and purulent liquid infiltrates the cellular tissue. It is sometimes confined to the course of a vein when the section of this vessel has given rise to the disease, and the phlegmon is then diffuse only in a longitudi- nal sense. It more frequently diffuses itself in various senses, directing its course where it finds least resistance, forming excavations under the integuments, penetrating even under the aponeurotic expansions, and insinu- ating itself into the interstices of the muscles, which are sometimes as completely dissected as if the hand of art had performed the opera- tion. The size of the parts becomes enor- mous, and fluctuation is manifest. The skin assumes a violet colour, becomes thin, and is detached in various extents from its subjacent connexions, and sometimes the skin of an entire limb may be thus detached. Deprived of its nutrient vessels it is soon bereft of the little heat and life it may yet retain, and mor- tification ensues, not from the circumstance of the inflammation, but from the destruction of the vessels indispensable to its existence. These considerations apply principally to phlegmonous erysipelas of the extremities. In the scalp it has a different march, result- ing as well from a difference of structure of this part, as from a difference in the seat of the cellular tissue involved in the disease, as shall be fully exposed in treating of erysi- pelas of the head. The mortification has already attacked the cellular tissue and may still invade more deeply seated parts, causing sloughing of the tendons and extending to the periosteum, pro- ducing necrosis of the bones and ulceration of the articular cartilages. Openings effected by nature or art give issue to an enormous quantity of a sanious fetid pus, and frequently to considerable shreds or portions of mortified cellular mem- brane, not unlike strips of coarse sponge that had been long macerated in a turbid fetid liquid. They are sometimes six or seven inches long, and the quantity of pus furnished at a first but too tardy opening has been seen to amount to three or four pounds After the evacuation the skin, too large for its contained parts, collapses into wrinkles, or inertly falls inverted into the openings that have been made. Its adhesion being de- stroyed it can be raised without effort, or as Dupuytren used to say, by a puff of wind. The mortification of it still extends, but some- times peninsulated patches escape its ravages, and are found to be connected to the subjacent parts by small cellular strips containing the vessels and nerves that convey to them ali- ment and life. The suppuration long con-