CANCER, PHYSIOLOGY OF. G17 by layer, unaccompanied with any manifesta- tion of vital activity ; and that when perfora- tion is thus accomplished, effusion of the jelly- like matter follows. Muller, on the other hand, supposes, with greater plausibility, that when the growth of the subcells becomes ex- tremely active, they burst their containing cells. The process of softening may commence in any part of a carcinomatous tumour, as well at the periphery as the centre. The notion of the constancy of central softening has been shown to be incorrect by careful observation. The change may originate in a single spot, or simultaneously in several. The changes in the surrounding tissues ac- companying this softening, lead to the elimi- nation of the morbid growth. Inflammation and purulent infiltration are among the most important of these. Sloughing of the invest- ing cellular membrane has, in some instances on record, completely disconnected cancerous tumours from adjoining parts, and led to their total expulsion ; a natural process of amputa- tion, which has been observed in the instances both of scirrhus and encephaloid. When seated under the skin, cancerous growths cither induce ulceration in that membrane, as the result of a languid inflammatory action, or distend it, and successively occasion atrophy from pressure, discoloration, diminution of temperature, of sensibility, and softening ; or, when the affected part becomes atrophous, as is sometimes the case with the mamma, irregular retraction, and puckering of the skin, follows; sulci are thus formed, become abraded, and constitute fissures, which gra- dually spread into ulcers. In any of these cases the skin may itself become cancerous. Perforation thus established, removal of the cancerous matter follows, either in the form of a liquid ichor, or in masses. The latter mode occurs not uncommonly in encephaloid, and leads to the formation of vast excavations with extraordinary rapidity. Professor Be- rard refers to a cavity of this kind, sufficiently large to lodge the head of an adult. In the case of this product, there is usually an ex- treme disproportion between the length of time which precedes, and that which follows ul- ceration ; while the first may be ofyears’ dura- tion, the latter frequently lasts but a few weeks when death carries off the patient. Scirrhous ulcers, on the contrary, advance with compa- rative slowness, though occasionally proving rapidly fatal. The appearance of the opening, or ulcer is, at first especially, in a great measure accidental. Its edges are sometimes thin, irregular, level with the surrounding surface, or, it may be sunken, undermined, and inverted; the latter condition amounting, in some cases, to a kind of reflection of the skin on itself. But this aspect usually changes, and the edges become elevated, and turned upwards and outwards, or everted; a state, which is of sufficiently constant occurrence to have been considered almost characteristic of cancerous ulceration. The surrounding skin acquires a bluish red tint to a variable extent round the sore ; and the excavated surface of the latter presents an irregular series of elevations and depressions, smeared with a thin watery matter, mixed with decomposed blood, or pulpy detritus, or studded with black patches of concrete har- dened blood. The surface of a scirrhous ulcer is, however, sometimes dry, and of red- dish, grayish, or brownish colour ; or, in other instances, covered with a stratum of soft and putrid fleshy substance generally, according to Trousseau, about one, or one and a half lines in thickness, and of the same colour as the surface of the sore. Underneath this layer hard scirrhus is discovered, to be in its turn converted into the detritus described, while the healthy parts, still more deeply- seated, undergo cancerous infiltration. The everted and elevated condition of the edge of carcinomatous ulcers, has been thus explained : the cancerous tissue underneath the border of the skin meets with no resistance on the surface next the sore, and, consequently, grows inwards towards the centre of the latter, at the same time sprouting upwards, in which direction also, it scarcely encounters any opposition ; the natural effect of this on the cutaneous edge of the ulcer is to raise it, and turn it outwards. On the other hand, the central portion of the tumour undergoes pressure from the peripheric portions, and its growth is proportionally obstructed. The absence of eversion is traced to inactivity of the subjacent cancerous matter. These par- ticulars may be easily ascertained, by exa- mining a vertical section of an ulcerated tumour; the protruding marginal growths have a marked tendency to assume the pe- dunculated form. Haemorrhage frequently takes place from the surface of cancerous ulcers. In encephaloid such effusion is sometimes extremely abundant. M. Velpeau relates the case of an individual who lost nine pounds of blood in twelve days from an ulcer of this kind in the axilla1. Such haemorrhage is extremely difficult to stop, has a constant tendency to recur, and eventually often proves fatal. In some instances the effusion is attended with a sudden sprouting forth of new growth. Extravasation of blood is less common on scirrhous surfaces, seldom becomes very abundant, and occasionally ap- pears to produce a temporary improvement in the condition of the ulcer. The capillary tubes of the growth are its ordinary source ; but it may, as we have already said, origi- nate in erosion of the larger vessels, or rup- ture of the varicose veins communicating with the ulcer. The liquid ichor, or sanies, which forms the discharge from cancerous sores, is thin, acrid, and generally of a dirty green colour, but liable to variation in tint from admixture, in various proportions, with effused blood, or from im- pregnation with melanotic fluid, as in a case 1 Rev. Med. 1825, t. i.