ARM, BEND OF. 361 would be great difficulty in bringing the lips of the wound together. On the outer or radial side the skin is thicker, and mostly covered with hairs ; on the ulnar side the skin is soft and thin. By pinching up a fold, and pulling it forwards, it will be found to connect itself to the tuberosity of the inner condyle of the humerus. Immediately underneath the skin, and ad- herent to it, is a very important layer of adi- pose tissue, which presents many points wor- thy our notice. It is generally, though erro- neously described as surrounding the bend of the arm. It abounds chiefly in the front of this region, and is most developed in young children and females. In this situation it forms a sort of cushion, which covers the veins, and frequently prevents their being seen ; by its softness and yielding nature it must likewise prevent any sudden or undue pressure upon the nerves and blood vessels, and in the same way diminish the ill effects of violent muscular contractions. From the abundance of adipose tissue, especially in j females, the surgeon often finds great diffi- culty in performing venesection. Sometimes a small quantity of fat protrudes through the puncture made by the lancet, which prevents | the proper flow of blood, causes thrombus, and is often followed by slight suppuration of the wround. When this accident occurs, the surgeon should be particular in returning the protruded part, or to remove it by cutting it away with the blade of his lancet, and close up the wound carefully. The posterior sur- face of this region, or elbow, contains very little fat; and why this difference ? Is it not I because there are here no important parts to guard! We never see, even in nature’s sports, any large vein or artery passing super- ficially in this course, and requiring protec- tion. The ulnar nerve can hardly be con- sidered an exception ; it is not strictly super- ficial ; it lies in a groove, which is well pro- tected by two bony projections. An accu- mulation of adipose tissue, far from improving the structure of this part, might produce con- siderable impediment to the free motions of the elbow-joint, and be the source of numerous diseases. Nevertheless the skin at the elbow evi- dently requires particular protection, to pre- vent its being frequently bruised by sudden ! and violent pressure against the hard and re- sisting surface of the olecranon. This is done bjr means of a bursa mucosa, which allows great mo- bility of the skin, and effectually prevents many i injuries that otherwise must occur from blows, &c. The adipose tissue, which is found in abundance at the lower and back part of the > arm, almost suddenly disappears opposite the upper end of the ulna; hence, also, in cor- pulent persons, instead of the olecranon form- ing a slight and natural projection when the limb is extended, a hollow is observed, the fat ! accumulating around that projection, and rising i above its surface. In several other points of this region the fat is also scanty, particularly upon the external condyle of the humerus, and opposite the head of the radius. This might also appear an imperfection in the con- formation of the limb. It must be remem- bered, however, that these bony surfaces are round and smooth, and allow the skin to roll over them with the greatest ease, without even the assistance of a synovial membrane. This almost total absence of fat opposite the articulation of the head of the radius is in a great measure the cause of that depression, called in popular language the “ dimple of the arm,” which in babes is only large enough to contain a pea. In females of fine mould it is much larger, and gives a peculiar charm to the arm it adorns. M. Gerdy (Op. cit. p. 187) has not rightly explained the cause of this depression. He attributes it almost en- tirely to the muscular radial eminence. Owing to the want of adipose tissue, the surgeon should avoid applying much pressure upon the integuments in these situations, lest their vitality should be destroyed. The radial dimple may be filled up by the head of the radius when dislocated backwards, and the skin may be exposed to ulceration by that bone pressing against it. The tuberosity of the inner condyle of the humerus is another point where no fat is observed ; a soft cellulo- fibrous substance occupies its place, and assists the skin in sliding over it. This displacement of the skin is easily seen during flexion of the limb, by marking it with ink, and following its displacement with the eye. The adipose substance in front of this region is frequently the seat of various forms of inflammation, especially phlegmonous ery- sipelas following venesection. Sometimes suppuration affects the fat which surrounds the veins in the form of canals. The matter may be pressed out of the wound made by the lancet, and has often been supposed to proceed from the veins themselves. Lipomatous tumours are sometimes met with in front of the region of the elbow : their removal requires great prudence. In fact the surgeon ought never to make an inci- sion in this situation without first applying a bandage round the arm as if he were going to bleed the patient. He will thus be able to mark down with ink, if he thinks proper, the exact course of the larger veins ; indeed this precaution should always be resorted to when- ever an operation is performed upon parts where the most perfect knowledge of anatomy cannot, either from irregularity in the organs, or from various displacements by tumours or other diseases, avail in establishing their pre- cise situations. I have several times witnessed the value of this practical truth. A patient with abscess of the neck came under M. Lis- franc’s care at the hospital of “ La Pitie.” This gentleman gave a lecture upon the safest manner of opening such tumours, when surrounded by important organs. He did not tell his pupils to endeavour to note down the precise course of the large veins. He ordered his assistant to plunge the bistoury into this