FISTULA, INTESTINAL. 202 a cylindrical form, and its anterior loose extre- mity, which is of a circular figure, contains a roundish depressed opening, through which the stools are voided. The basis of the swel- ling is continuous on all sides with the integu- ments, and I could discover no opening of the lower end of the gut When the protrusion from the upper open- ing of the intestine is large, the projecting valve is pressed downwards over the inferior aperture so as to conceal it from view, and to obstruct the entrance of the feces into it. Actual obliteration of this opening has been known to occur 2. Prolapse of the lower orifice of the intestine is usually of smaller size, and is known by the opening at its free extremity only giving exit to mucous secretions ; the fecal matters, dis- charged from the orifice of the upper portion of intestine making their appearance near the base of the tumour. Sabatier, in an interesting memoir3, has de- scribed the case of a soldier, who had a fistulous opening at the right side, communicating with the intestine, and allowing a partial escape of the feces. After this accidental aperture had existed a year, he was seized with colic, and being obliged to go to bed, found at the wound a red tumour, equal in size to a small nipple, which increased rapidly to the size of a fist. The prolapse afterwards varied much in size, but was ordinarily about six inches long, and one and a half in diameter, and exhi- bited very clearly the folds and glands of the intestine. It was not painful. The feces flowed constantly from its basis in a fluid state, without the patient being conscious of their discharge. Small hard lumps, resembling fat in appearance, were occasionally expelled from the rectum. The patient enjoyed a good state of health, and was tolerably lusty and strong. The same author has also related another example of prolapse occurring at the inferior opening. Prolapse at both orifices is occasionally ob- served. In this case, the peculiar character of the excretions voided by the tw'o tumours, or the excretion of alimentary matters from one tumour, and the absence of such excretion from the other, readily determine which re- spectively belongs to the upper or to the lower opening in the intestine. Sir Astley Cooper represents this double protrusion in the second plate of the first part of his work on Hernia4. The accompanying illustration is taken from Bourgery’s work 5. Two inte- resting cases of this affection are quoted by Mr. Lawrence °, from Albinus and Sabatier. Effects of prolapse.—Obstruction to the passage of alimentary matters from the upper to the lower portion of the intestine, is a fre- 1 Treatise on Ruptures, p. 417. 2 Dupuytren, Diet, dc Med. et de Chir. Pr. t. iii. p. 136. 3 Mem. de l’Acad. de Chir. t. v. p. 398. 4 Second Edition. 5 Tom. vii. pi. 33. 6 Treatise on Ruptures, p. 419. quent result of prolapsus. In cases where the evacuations have in part been discharged by the natural passage, in proportion as the pro- Fig. 253. Intestinal fistula with double prolapse, from Bourgeri/. a, Prolapse of the upper portion of intestine. b, Aperture of ditto. c, Prolapse of the lower portion. trusion increases, the natural evacuations di- minish, and at length become entirely inter- rupted. Hence it is evident, that in our attempts to restore the continuity of the ali- mentary canal, it is highly important to guard against the occurrence of prolapse. When the protrusion is great, painful dragging sen- sations in the abdomen are experienced ; and the patient is sometimes involuntarily com- pelled to incline the trunk forwards. Although intestinal fistula complicated with prolapse has been shown to be occasionally compatible with continuance of life and tolerable health, yet it may be stated as a general rule, that this com- plication aggravates all the inconveniences resulting from intestinal fistula ; nutrition is more seriously disturbed, emaciation proceeds more rapidly, and the unfortunate patient is more liable to sink from inanition. Causes of prolapse.—The weakened state of the abdominal walls at the site of the abnor- mal opening, and the absence of a sphincter muscle to protect it, are the principal pre- disposing causes of the affection. Undue action of the respiratory muscles, in coughing, straining, or other violent efforts, is the gene- ral exciting cause. Changes oforganization in the prolapsed part.— The dense resisting cicatrix, which bounds the abnormal opening, exerts more or less con- stricting influence upon the protrusion, by which a congested state of the minute vessels of the part is produced. Hence the mu- cous membrane appears red and turgid, and the entire mass becomes thickened and indu- rated by interstitial deposition. Adhesions also occur which sometimes render the tumour