ERYSIPELAS. 150 2 Traite dcs Malad. Chiiurg. t. ii. 1 Chomcl, Op. cit. extremities, and external and internal ery- sipelas : and on the age of the patient ; ery- sipelas of infants, of adults, and of old age. Some authors, with a commendable desire to simplify the divisions of erysipelas have so reduced them, that essential pathological dis- tinctions, reclaiming special means of treat- ment, and consequently not to be overlooked by the practitioner, have been confounded. Simplicity is no doubt very much to be desired, but we should not sacrifice to it the import- ant considerations of prognosis and treatment, to which it is not possible to give precision, if we exclude from our nosological arrange- ment the various modifications imparted to the disease by the age arid constitutional state of the patient. Considering the subject in a clinical point of view, I shall adopt those divisions that appear to me to be legiti- mized by therapeutical exigence, and the pre- cision they give to the curative indications. These divisions or varieties may be comprised in five sections, and are referable, 1st, to the general state or nature of the constitutional disturbance ; 2nd, to the local state, resulting from the nature of the tissues involved in the disease, or from traumatic complication ; 3rd, to the seat of the affection ; 4th, to its march or progress, and 5th, to the age of the patient. Section I.—Erysipelas, as has been already said, may exist without the slightest general disturbance, apyretic erysipelas '. It is the least grievous form of the disease, and fre- quently lasts but two or three days. Gene- rally erysipelas is accompanied by one or other of the various forms of fever. When simple fever, acceleration of the circulation, elevation of temperature, and general but slight disturbance of the functions, precedes the eruption, and continues and subsides with it, the affection has been termed simple erysipela- tous fever. A more violent reaction, general injection of the integumentary surfaces, con- siderable heat and moisture of the skin, large quick pulse, highly coloured urine, with more tension and- redness of the eruption, and a greater tendency of the inflammation to in- vade the subjacent tissues, constitutes the inflammatory variety. Bilious fever, the prin- cipal features of which have been already de- scribed, characterizes a frequent and remark- able form of the disease, bilious erysipelas. An important variety is the adynamic erysipelas, usually attacking the two extremes of life : it is accompanied with the symptoms of the fever of this name, characterized by its annihilating effects upon the functions of the life of rela- tion, and extending its paralyzing influence to the principle of innervation that presides over nutrition. The local characters are a deeper colour of the eruption, which, when effaced by pressure, returns slowly, and a softish tumefaction of the part with several phlyctaenae on its surface, underneath which the violet suffusion of the derm denotes the impending gangrene so common in this form of the dis- ease, and which is frequently announced by intense heat and pain of the part, soon suc- ceeded by complete insensibility. The swel- ling is generally inconsiderable and of a softish boggy consistence ; the phlyctaenae that ap- pear on its surface contain a dirty brown serum and the derm becomes livid and mar- bled, removing all doubt of the incipient mor- tification. Sometimes a general perturbation of the nervous system, with great irregulari- ties of form and march, characterizes the fever, and gives its name to the concomitant erup- tion, ataxic erysipelas, which presents a similar irregularity and capriciousness in its course, sudden variation in degree and extent, and rapid changes of seat externally (erratic ery- sipelas') and internally (metastatic erysipelas.) Section II.—The eczematous and phlyctenoid forms come under this head, but they are of no therapeutical importance, and consequently do not deserve more than bare mention : they are often produced by the application of rancid topics, and sometimes terminate in the formation of impetiginous scabs. The ulcerous erysipelas of authors has been frequently con- founded with ulcerations resulting from pus- tulous affections of the skin, with which the erysipelatous eruption did but happen to coincide h Some authors in forming a dis- tinct variety of the termination by gangrene, would seem to imply that it may be produced by an essentially gangrenous agent, introducing into the affected parts a principle of inevitable mortification, as in malignant pustule or car- buncle ; as the conditions in which gangren- ous erysipelas manifests itself, are the same as those in which the adynamic state is produced, it would be multiplying uselessly, the already numerous forms of the disease not to com- prise under one denomination, adynamic ery- sipelas, results that are etiologically identical, and impart no variation to the therapeutical indication. (Edematous Erysipelas is an important vari- ety of this section : it is simply erysipelas with oedema of the subjacent cellular tis- sue. Boyer was in error in saying that the infiltration is the primitive affection, and that the erysipelatous inflammation ought to be considered but as a complication, and conse- quently that the expression erysipelatous oedema, would be more appropriate to this af- fection 2. No doubt erysipelas frequently supervenes on anasarcous swellings ; but in numerous instances the oedema is either simul- taneous with the invasion of the erysipelas, or even consecutive to it. Nothing is more common than its appearance in the last stage of erysipelas, and it is a constant occurrence in erysipelas of the scrotum, penis, pudenda, and eyelids : it is also not unfrequent in ery- sipelas of the lower extremities, where the declivity of the parts impede the easy return of the circulating fluids. All cutaneous irri- tations effected on a leucophlegmatic or ca- 1 Gliomcl, Op. cit.