223 ANEURISM. der it impracticable to tie the vessel on the cardiac side of the tumour. A ligature was, therefore, placed on the common trunk of the femoral artery between the origins of the epigastric arteries and the profunda. The pulsation of the tumour continued, but its bulk did not increase after the operation. On the contrary, it diminished so much that it was conceived if it continued to diminish it might then have been possible to have tied the internal iliac artery on the cardiac side of the tumour. The aneurism, however, burst, and the patient died in consequence of an ex- travasation of blood in the adjacent cellular membrane. These two were the only cases during a period of more than forty years, in which this mode of operating for aneurism had been adopted; and from the unfortunate results with which they were followed, the operation of Brasdor fell into disrepute, and an attempt was even made to turn it into ridicule. “ I cannot conceive,” says Burns, “ a more futile idea than to suppose that such an ope- ration could possibly tend to prevent the growth of an aneurismal sac : one might readily believe that it may, by preventing the blood from passing freely through the tumour, cause it to enlarge more rapidly than before. That it would occasion a firm coagulum of the contents of the aneurism, and consequently enlargement of the anastomosing branches ; a diversion of blood from the tumour is what one would hardly expect, and least of all would any one imagine, that Dessault would have been the projector of such a doctrine, and Deschamps the first to put it to the test of experiment. In doing this, the latter had no reason to boast of his dexterity, nor could he say more of his success. Indeed, all cir- cumstances considered, there is no point in the treatment of aneurism, which should be more decidedly reprobated than this : it is absurd in theory, and experience proves that it is ruinous in practice.” Opposed, however, to this opinion, Hodg- son, in his Treatise on the Diseases of the Arteries, a work which has been justly esteem- ed one of the most useful contributions to modern surgery, advanced a very different opinion of the proposal of Brasdor. “ From these observations,” remarks that learned writer, “ I think we may conclude that the effect of tying an artery immediately below (on the capillary side) an aneurism, in a case where no branches originate from the sac, or from the artery between the ligature and the tumour has not hitherto been determined by experience. The termination of the two cases in which this practice has been tried by no means destroys the probability of a happy result under other circumstances. There is strong reason to believe, that if no branch originated from the aneurism, or from the artery below the aneurism, the blood would coagulate in the tumour, and that a cure would be accomplished by the absorption of this coagulum and the subsequent contraction of the sac. The principle upon which a cure is expected to follow this mode of operating is the same as that upon which varicose veins are cured by tying the superior part of the vessel. The obstructed blood coagulates in the dilated vein ; the coagulum is absorbed ; the cyst contracts ; and the disease is cured.” All speculation on the effect of Brasdor’s operation was, however, set at rest, a favour- able opportunity having occurred to myself in 1825, of performing an operation on this principle, in 'a case of Carotid aneurism1. A female, seventy-five years of age, having been for three months afflicted with anomalous pains in the neck, and great difficulty in respi- ration ; after a violent fit of coughing she perceived a swelling on the right side of her neck, a little above the clavicle. The tumour had all the characters of a diffused aneurism of the carotid artery, and had become so large that it was quite impracticable to tie the ves- sel on the cardiac side of the tumour, so closely did it come in contact with the cla- vicle. The tumour continued to increase, and on the eleventh day after it was first ob- served it had acquired a formidable aspect, the skin covering the scapular portion having become very red and painful, the pulsation, which was very strong throughout the whole swelling, being here particularly so; the pa- rietes feeling extremely thin, and appearing as if ready to give way. The patient’s life being in the most immi- nent danger, it forcibly struck me that it might be expedient to tie the carotid artery on the capillary side of the tumour. There were circumstances wrhich made this case par- ticularly favourable for resorting to such a measure ; the aneurism had been but recently formed ; the patient, though far advanced in years, was in all other respects healthy. Be- sides, the diseased artery was most favourable for the trial of Brasdor’s operation, no branches being sent off from the common carotid until it divides into the external and internal, the process of coagulation would not be inter- rupted by the circulation through any col- lateral branch in immediate contiguity with the aneurism. The operation also appeared practicable in this instance, as the aneurism, though large, still left sufficient space for the application of a ligature between the tumour and the division of the artery. There was no particular difficulty in reach- ing the artery, but what might have been an- ticipated from its great depth, from the necessary limits of the incision, and from the numerous large veins which were to be avoided, particularly one branch that extended across the middle of the incision to the inter- nal jugular. The vessel appearing to be healthy, one ligature was firmly tied round it, as close to the tumour as the incision would admit; and the lips of the wound were 1 Case of Carotid Aneurism, successfully treated by tying the Artery beyond the Tumour, by James Ward- rop, Trans, of Med. Chir. Society, 1825.