the fi-acture ; the muscles and tendons reu-ain the definitive callus nent ;—that in the ture, very much as the young bone docs,— 256 newed ; and, finally, the consolidation of the exists; and that when Fig. 284. FRACTURE. It is here neces- sary to advert to the assertion of Dupuy- tren, that there are two different kinds of callus, one called pro- visional or tempo- rary, and the other, definitive or perma- early periods of the process of repair pro- visional callus only the consolidation has been perfected, this callus has been com- pletely absorbed, and alone remains. A t first, it is said, a mass of callus occupies the interval between the medullary cavities of the fragments ; and a prolongation from this mass passes to Fig. 204 is taken from Part 2, fig. 1, plate 3, of Mr. B. Cooper's paper. “ It exhibits a perfect bony conso- lidation, although still prior to the restoration of its medullary cavity. The newly-deposited osseous me- dium may be observed to be externally of a compact structure ; while internally it still retains a spongy and highly-vascular appearance. No vestige of tem- porary cartilage remains; and in the dissection of this preparation all the structures surrounding the bone were found restored to their natural appear- ance ; and even the muscles were attached by a na- tural kind of tendinous insertion into the new bone." a greater or less distance into the interior of each fragment. Another mass, which forms the tumour of the callus, discover- able by the hand, encloses the fragments as if with a clasp. These two masses consti- tute the provisional callus ; of which the only use, according to Dupuytren, is to support and confine the fragments, while nature is accomplishing the deposition of the definitive callus. The secretion of the defini- tive callus commences in the fourth period, of which we are speaking; and as it slowly proceeds, the provisional callus is gradually absorbed. That which occupies the medullary cavity becomes, successively, porous, reti- cular, and ultimately completely absorbed, so that the medullary canal is restored ; and eventually the permanent callus alone re- mains, occupying the situation previously held by the gelatinous and flocculent substance ; which, in the earlier stages of the reparative process, lay directly between the fragments. The provisional callus, therefore,is that which forms the superficial and central part of the tumour of the callus, and is destined to be absorbed at the latter part of the fourth and in the fifth period. The definitive callus is that by which the medullary canal is perma- nently restored, and the fragments directly united ; or which, in fractures where the fra°-- ments lie side by side, forms the bar by which they are permanently connected. 5. The fifth and last period extends from the fifth or sixth month to the end of the year. During this time the deposition of the permanent callus is completed, and the pro- visional callus is removed ; the periosteum recovers its natural texture and thickness at their freedom of motion ; the medullary canal is gradually restored, and its membrane and, consequently, the secretion of marrow, re- fracture is complete. From the first appearance of reparative bone, it is apparent that this highly organized formation continues to be changed in its struc- growth going on without, and excavation within, &c. until the final changes are com- pleted. From an analysis made by Dr. Davy, one hundred and twenty-eight days after the inju- ry, the comparative composition of the shaft Figs. 235. Figs. 285 are taken from sections of two femora in the Museum, of the College of Surgeons in Dublin. Both bones had been broken long before death, and exhibit a condition of the callus which must have existed for a long time, yet which does not correspond exactly with the account usually given of the permanent callus. In neither is the niedullary canal completely restored, and in both these are con- siderable remains of what, according to Dupuytren’s definition, must be regarded as provisional callus.