ANKLE. 291 having first divided into two or more branches which below the joint anastomose together by oblique communications. The fascia or aponeurosis of the ankle re- gion is the continuation of the same subcuta- neous envelop of the leg ; its office is simi- lar. to keep each part in its proper place ; but as there is more danger of displacement of the numerous tendons in this situation, so the fascia is much stronger, and by dividing into several layers forms complete sheaths through which these tendons pass. Although these tendons are so firmly bound down by their vagime, yet, by great muscular contrac- tion, these have been ruptured, and thus have the tendons been displaced. Wilson was par- ticularly fortunate in seeing several such cases, and this led him to speak of this accident as a common occurrence, while few other authors speak of it. When the peronei tendons slide over the fore part of the fibula, their action, says he, “ is changed ; in this new situation their action on the foot will be to bend it on the leg, when in their natural position, it was to extend ithe adds,“ that these tendons may easily be pushed into their proper places, if done soon after the accident, but if not done early, they form a new groove on the fore part of the bone, and the old one is filled up, or other- wise so altered that it cannot again receive them ; and thus the pain and lameness may continue for life.” “ I have seen,” he con- tinues, “ this occurrence in the living body early enough to return the tendon.” In another case, when this could not be effected, he recommended the removal of a portion of the tendon, which was done, and followed by no inconvenience. The same anatomist saw two or three subjects in the dissecting-rooms, which presented similar displacements of these tendons. “ The tendons which pass behind the inner ankle are liable to a like displacement.” Dr. Adams (Dr. Todd’s Cy- clopaedia of Anatomy, Art. Ankle) has seen one instance of this displacement and several of the former. An accurate knowledge of these sheaths, which often inflame, and require opening by the knife, is indispensable to the practitioner: ignorance of this subject frequently leads to disastrous consequences *. If, for instance, where matter is pent up, an incision be made on the inside of these sheaths without pene- trating them, little or no relief will be obtained; the pus still remains in the vaginae of these tendons. All the tendons in this region are provided with sheaths, which are lined where much friction exists with synovial membranes or burs® mucosae, which, by their great smooth- ness, contribute much to the facility of motion. These membranes are frequently diseased ; sometimes they are distended by fluid forming i In suppuration of the synovial membranes it sometimes happens that the tendons slough away. M. Roux saw the peronei tendons come away in a severe case ol inflammation of the foot and synovial mem- brane. tumours in different parts of the ankle, accord- ing to their situation ; this is the most inno- cent of the affections to which they are liable; they may generally be cured by applying sudden and powerful pressure, sufficient to rupture the bursa; the fluid then becomes absorbed. These tumours frequently present some difficulty of diagnosis to the practitioner, where they are deep-seated, and especially when he is not familiar with the precise situ- ation of the bursae. Despite of the assidu- ous and extensive cultivation of anatomy, some parts of the human body attract but little notice ; of this, the bursae mucosae offer us an example. Few observations appear to have been made regarding these membranes; and the best work which we have upon this sub- ject, is perhaps still, Alexander Monro’s valu- able treatise, which J. C. Rosenmiiller trans- lated into German, in 1799. It is also rather singular that many authors have given repre- sentations of these bursae, very inferior to those which are found in the above-named book. Thus, Caldani in his large engravings has sometimes copied (plate 89) Loder’s drawings, which are very inferior in correct- ness of anatomy to those of Alexander Monro. MM. Bourgery and Jacob, in their splendid work on anatomy, have not done justice to this part of the subject. The best way to study these bursae mucosae is to inflate them by means of the blow-pipe. We thus obtain the following dimensions :—At the inside and front of the ankle, we find the tendon of the tibialis anticus muscle, which is generally covered by the cellulo-adipose tissue, and al- ways provided with a large bursa extending two inches above the lowest part of the inter- nal malleole, and one inch below the same part; its length is sometimes much greater,— when amply distended, its width is nearly an inch: the anterior annular ligament, which furnishes this bursa with a sheath, does not bind it down so tightly as it does the other bursa of this region ; the finger may easily appreciate the distension of the bursa through the skin. These synovial membranes are generally inserted along the posterior border of the tendons, but not throughout their ex- tent, leaving here and there small spaces, which are mostly of a semicircular form ; at each extremity, these membranes present dis- tinct folds, which surround the tendons, and sometimes part of the muscle. These attach- ments explain why the slightest motion pro- duces such acute pain in cases of inflammation of these bursae. The extensor pollicis pedis tendon is sur- rounded by a large synovial membrane which measures three inches in length and nearly one inch in breadth. I have seen this bursa measure four inches and a half in length ; it does not reach so high up the leg as the one just described, but extends much further be- low, sometimes to within one inch and a half of the articulation of the great toe; the sheath which the annular ligament forms for this tendon is strong and binds it down, so