ARM, BEND OF. 360 age have each its peculiarities, which, for the acute observer of the human form, are suffi- cient to distinguish them from each other. The divers pursuits of mankind likewise pro- duce many changes which are not without interest. The difference of sex is another great cause of diversity in the form of this region; but as it would be impossible to do justice to these points without incurring the blame of treating the subject more for the artist than for the surgeon, we shall content ourselves with pointing out the most impor- tant practical bearings connected with them, taking our description from the male adult arm, in which nearly all the parts are upon a larger scale, and more palpable to the ana- tomist than in the other periods of life, or in the other sex. The bend of the arm, especially in the male, has a somewhat irregular shape, presenting several prominences and depressions. The antero-posterior diameter is much less than the lateral or transverse, which reaches from the radial to the ulnar side. The fore-part, or front surface of this region is flattened or hollowed about its middle ; the posterior and lateral sides, on the contrary, are convex. The middle anterior depression is of a tri- angular shape, more so when the integuments are removed, and contains the most impor- tant parts in this region. This depression is continued up the arm on each side of the biceps, and gives that flattened shape in the male arm which is scarcely perceptible in females, owing to their osseous and muscular systems being less developed, and to the greater abundance of adipose substance, which fills up all the depressions, and gives their limbs that beautiful rotundity which consti- tutes the peculiar charm and grace of the female form. The posterior side of this re- gion forms the elbow ; in its middle a bony projection, called the olecranon, may always be seen or felt. The external or radial side extends from the middle depression, is con- vex, and surrounds the radius; it projects much beyond the outer line of the arm, which makes the upper part of the fore-arm much wider than the arm itself. The inner or ul- nar side also commences from the middle anterior hollow of this region, is likewise convex, and presents a bony prominence, called the tuberosity of the inner condyle of the os humeri, which is always visible, or easily felt by the fingers, and gives great cha- racter to the male arm. On each side of the olecranon are two distinct and well-marked depressions or furrows, which may be deno- minated the radial and ulnar depressions ; but their description will be more fully given when the deeper parts are examined. There are also some other furrows, which merit no- tice, and will be explained hereafter. These outward forms have rarely been correctly delineated by the great masters of painting ; however, some of the modern French school, and we must place David, Ingres, and De la Roche among the first, have given the most splendid specimens of correct anatomical drawing l. The skin at the anterior surface of the bend of the arm is very thin and smooth, contains merely fine small hairs, and presents a number of transverse folds or lines, caused, as at the knee, foot, w'rist, &c., by the con- tinual flexion, or bending of the part. In fat persons, in women, and in young children, there are one or two well-marked lines, which extend across this region. Owing to the delicate nature of the skin in this place, the veins are frequently perceptible, by their colour appearing through the integuments, and by their rising above the surface, and thus marking their course. The skin is thin- nest at the middle of this region, becoming somewhat thicker as it proceeds from this spot : here, also, it is more vascular, and con- tains a greater number of superficial nerves, which are principally branches of the inter- costal and musculo-cutaneous nerves, than at the other sides of this region. The delicacy of its texture may help to explain the fre- quency with which many diseases, such, for instance, as herpes, ezeema rubrum, and prurigo, manifest themselves in this part. That singular insect, the acarus scabei, seems to show a decided predilection for this situ- ation. During the extended state of the arm, although the skin is not very loose, it may nevertheless be pinched up into folds. At the posterior surface, or elbow, it presents a number of small irregular folds, which are most marked in strong men, and in whom the olecranon is always very prominent. The cuticle is very rough to the touch, owing, apparently, to a scaly state of the epidermis. When the fore-arm is bent upon the arm, this rough surface becomes quite smooth and tense, and is generally tinted with a reddish hue. During the extended state of the limb, the fingers may grasp a large fold of the skin, but by pulling it, even forcibly, no tension of the integuments in front of this region can be produced : this is explained by the strong adhesion of the skin to the fibro-cellular sheath which surrounds the bursa mucosa, and at- taches itself to the olecranon, and to the tuberosity of the condyle of the os humeri. This fact equally accounts for large tumours in this region not affecting the skin in front of the arm. Owing to these adhesions of the skin to the fixed points beneath, it is impor- tant in all surgical operations to remove as little of it as possible, as otherwise there 1 Girodet’s picture of the “ Deluge” is a sort of view of the three great varieties in the human form. Here we see the aged father’s sinewy arm clasping the neck of his athletic son, who bears him upon his back, while the son’s right arm saves his fair companion from a watery grave : a young hoy and a bahe, sup- ported by their mother’s arms, complete this well- drawn group. Among the Grecian statues there arc a great many astonishing representations of this difficult region ; none, perhaps, are more perfect than those of the “ Knife Grinder” and the “ Boxers” of the Tri- bune, the “ Dying Gladiator” of the Capitol, and the “ Gladiateur Combattant” of the Louvre.