ERYSIPELAS. 162 6 Op. cit. observer cannot predict the future consequence, it will the air and light, two powerful excitants of the skin, should be laid over the entire ery- sipelatous surface and a few inches of the healthy skin, and maintained in place by a compress placed over it with two or three rounds of a roller. This dressing should be removed every twenty-four hours; however, in light cases the one dressing suffices for the cure. Should the cotton become adherent he directs it to detached by the application of a warm emollient cataplasm. Kentish’s liniment, also extolled for the cure of burns, has been employed by Dr. Charles Meigs in the treatment of erysipelas. He considers it superior to any other topic, particularly in the erysipelas of infancy. It is composed of basilicon and a sufficient quan- tity of spirit of turpentine to form a com- pound soft enough to be easily spread with the finger over the partsl. Having now passed in review the various topics employed in the cure of erysipelas, we return to the general treatment, reserving for future consideration their special application to each form and variety of the disease. In the simple benign form the most simple means, as we have said, are sufficient, and the nimia medicincE diligentia, however specious, is unavailable to any purpose but that of ad- ministering to the patient’s credulity. Ab- stinence, repose, equable warmth, diluting drinks, cooling evacuants, sinapized pedilu- via if the head be the seat of the affection, should solely constitute the treatment. If the erysipelas is intense an extensive blood- letting becomes imperative ; and, although it may only make the eruption become paler without at all abridging its duration, it renders important service in mitigating the severity of the symptoms and constitutional disturb- ance. The extent of depletion must of course be proportioned to the age, strength, temper- ament and idiosyncrasy of the patient. Be- tween robust adolescence and enfeebled old age there are, as Mr. Lawrence justly re- marks, numerous gradations, requiring corre- sponding modifications of treatment. Some- times local bleeding, followed up by the ex- hibition of saline and diaphoretic medicines, will be sufficient 1 Revue Med. 1828. t. iv. and North American Med. and Snrg. Joum. July 1828. 2 Strong arguments are adduced by Dr. Williams to prove that bleeding is “ often highly injurious in the treatment of erysipelas, and that an opposite or tonic plan of treatment is much more uniformly suc- cessful,” Op. cit. p. 275. Mr. Lawrence and other strong advocates for local and general blood-letting in erysipelas acknowledge that it is a contagious disease, and that its laws and pathology are totally different from those of simple phlegmon, and on examination of Mr. Lawrence's cases and those of Dupuytren it cer- tainly appears that their practice was far from suc- cessful. “ Mr. Lawrence, to strengthen his case, has attempted to distinguish between the different forms of erysipelas, and to apply a graduated scale of anti- phlogistic treatment. But as it appears from what lias been stated that the early symptoms of erysipelas, whatever form the disease may ultimately assume, arc essentially the same, so that the most discriminating In large crowded towns, where so many eauses tend to impair vital power, ■ “ pericula mille saevac urbis”— and when the constitution is often vitiated by habits of debauch and drunkenness, depletion should be effected with a sparing hand. Wil- lan 1 and Bateman 2 proscribed it together in London, and Sir Astley Cooper says, that the best treatment in that city consists in giving calomel to restore the secretions of the liver, and then allowing a generous diet and ad- ministering tonics 3. It is to be feared that the precepts of so eminent an authority may lead to the indiscriminate use of a means, which I should apprehend would be often at- tended with every equivocal safety. The bold antiphlogistic practice of Mr. Lawrence in the same city contrasts strongly with this treatment, and is I presume considered by this accomplished surgeon to be attended with not less felicitous results. In Paris blood- letting is generally considered an essential adjunct, if not a principal means of treatment. Dr. Bouillaud professes, and I can vouch for the practical justification of his precepts, that full bleeding repeated at short intervals, “ couj) sur coup,” as he terms it, is sure to get the mastery of the disease in two or three days4 * ; while others state that bleeding will subdue the disease in a still shorter time provided it be made at the invasion of the access in the cold state that ushers in the febrile exacerbation6. The medical constitution has been some- times too gratuitously invoked as counter-in- dicating depletion. In 1833, when it vvas argued at the Academy of Medicine of Paris that the then prevailing epidemic re- quired the exclusive use of emetics, Rayer cured several of his patients at La Charite by diluents and bleeding 6. The relation, how- ever, between atmospheric constitution and disease should not be entirely rejected, as has been put beyond dispute by the im- mortal Sydenham. Its influence in erysipelas has been already exposed. In the epidemic mentioned by Bromfield, the antiphlogistic treatment proved generally fatal, while bark and cordials were alone serviceable. The therapeutical modifications arising out of this influence will be soon more fully developed be plain tbat the application of this rule must be ab- solutely impossible. For, if the disease is ‘ to be cut short,’ ‘ to be prevented from spreading beyond its original seat,’ the skin ; also, ‘ that bleeding is of no use after the cellular tissue is once inflamed,’ as the disease will now pursue its course ‘ in spite of bleeding;’ it will be evident that, in order to bleed in the right caic, we must bleed in all cases of idio- pathic erysipelas, and perhaps, to the same extravagant amount in the asthenic as in the sthenic individual.” Op. cit. p. 281.—Ed. 1 Pract. Treatise on Cutaneous Diseases. 2 Pract. Synop. of Cutaneous Diseases. 2 Lectures on Surgery, 3rd edit. 1832. •* Journal Hebdomadaire, 1834. s Annuairc Med.-Chirurg, 1827.