FISTULA, VESICO-VAGINAL. 233 that occurred to J. L. Petit, a consultation was held, which recognized that the reunion of the sides of the opening was the only mode of cure; but nevertheless, it was agreed that such reunion could not be effected by any known means. Desault had attempted to cure this form of fistula by means of an apparatus which he had invented for this purpose ; it consisted of a short gum elastic catheter, which was steadily fixed in the urethra by means of a metallic plate which descended in front of the pubis, and a bandage. This prevented the ac- cumulation of the urine in the bladder ; while, on theother hand,alargeplugoflint wasplaced in the vagina, to support and favour the cica- trization of the fistulous orifice. The urine flowing from the catheter was received into a bag adapted to it. The patient was directed to wear this apparatus for a considerable pe- riod, nine or twelve months. Desault hoped, by fulfilling the two indications, of constantly drawing off the urine, and mechanically sup- porting the part, that he should succeed in closing the fistulous aperture. He was suc- cessful in but a few cases, and those, too, of the most favourable nature. Of late years, how- ever, some progress has been made in this branch of surgery, and cures are now ob- tained in some cases which our predecessors deemed to be beyond the reach of art. The diagnosis of this form of fistula is, in general, readily established by the fact of the urine being passed partly or altogether by the vulva. All doubt, if any exist, may be re- moved by the use of the speculum, or by the injection of a coloured fluid into the urethra , its return by the vulva will at once prove the existence of the anormal communication. The shape and dimensions of the opening may also be ascertained, either by employing a specu- lum for that purpose, or by taking a cast in the manner recommended by Lallemand, which is to introduce a stick of softened wax, of a size sufficient to extend the vagina mode- rately. It should be allowed to remain a little time, in order to mould itself exactly to the opening, and then withdrawn gently. It will then show distinctly the shape of the opening, and the depth at which it is situated from the orifice of the vagina. Sometimes the patient retains the urine for an hour or two at a time, when sitting still or lying down ; in these cases the perforation is small, situated in the urethra or neck of the bladder, above the insertion of the ureters, or is masked by the neck of the uterus, which has descended into the vagina. The tediousness of the treatment, and the uncertainty of success by Desault’s plan, led to the proposal and adoption of others, having in view the obliteration of the anormal com- munication, by means of cauterization, suture, &c., and applied according to various methods. In all, however, the chief indications are the same, namely, to prevent the urine from flow- ing by the vagina, and to maintain the edges of the fistula in contact. When the palliative plan of the catheter and plug proves insufficient to effect the re- union of the fistulous edges, cauterization may be had recourse to ; the object being to pro- duce, by the inflammation and tumefaction which the caustic excites, the gradual narrow- ing and ultimate obliteration of the solution of continuity. Different caustics have been em- ployed for this purpose, such as the nitrate of silver, the acid nitrate of mercury, or the ac- tual cautery ; the best of these, however, is the nitrate of silver. The actual cautery should not be employed unless in cases where, the disease being of ancient date, it is found difficult to excite inflammation in the thick- ened and callous edges of the fistula by any other means. A variety of instruments have been proposed for the application of the caus- tic ; but a common dressing forceps will an- swer very well, the piece of nitrate of silver being so secured between its jaws, as to pro- ject at a right angle from the end of the for- ceps. The solution of continuity having been previously brought into view by means of the speculum, the caustic is rubbed, not on the vaginal surface merely, but on the edges throughout their entire extent. Injections of tepid water should then be thrown up the vagina, before the speculum is removed, and the patient may be afterwards placed in a warm hip-bath. Delpech advocated the employment of the actual cautery ; and Velpeau, though giving a general preference to the nitrate of silver, still thinks that in a case of long standing, with loss of substance and callous edges, that the actual cautery will be best, as acting more rapidly and with greater energy. Delpech recommends that the vaginal surface only should be touched with the hot iron, in order to prevent loss of substance from extensive eschars. After the first cauterization, if the solution of continuity has contracted percep- tibly in all directions, a second application should be made, and renewed until the open- ing is entirely closed. It should be observed that sufficient time must be allowed for con- traction to take place. Contraction, after the application of the actual cautery, goes on sometimes for months. Delpech treated suc- cessfully, in this way, a case of vesico-vaginal fistula, in which the aperture occupied the bottom of the bladder. The cauterizing-iron should be small, round, or olive-headed, and should be applied cau- tiously, and but for an instant, as it will be much better to do too little at once than too much. But whatever be the caustic employed, it should always be remembered that the great obstacle to the adhesion of the edges of the fistulous aperture, is the contact of the urine ; and therefore the utmost care must be taken to keep the bladder empty, and, if possible, dry, by placing a catheter with large eyes, as in Desault’s plan, or by drawing off the water very frequently, so as to divert it entirely from passing by the vagina. By these means, fistulae of the vesico-vagi- nal wall, especially when small in extent, and