693 CANCRUM ORIS. accurate history of gangrene of the mouth are Cumin, Richter, and Taupin. Dr. Cumin distinguishes three forms or varieties of gangrena oris. The first variety commonly occurs in infants at the breast. The upper gums are always attacked first, and present a purplish and spongy appearance ; the roof of the mouth, also, being of a purplish colour. Ulceration now soon takes place ; the surface of the ulcer is greenish or ash-coloured, and much disposed to bleed : the secretion of saliva is increased, and the bowels are gene- rally constipated. The second form usually occurs in children who have been enfeebled by some previous disease. Here the ulceration is generally con- fined to one side of the mouth, but may ex- tend to the neighbouring parts; the tongue (according to Dr. Cumin) takes on a similar action, and is either wholly or partially de- stroyed. The third variety is principally con- fined to the cheek and lips ; it commences with ulceration of the lining membrane of those parts, soon afterwards followed by a hard, red, shining and circumscribed swelling, which quickly becomes gangrenous. This form resembles the gangrenous inflammation of the pudendum described by Kinder Wood ; in the second variety, ulceration is predomi- nant : in this one, gangrene. Richter likewise divides gangrene of the mouth into three species ; viz. the scorbutic, the gastric, and the metastatic. The first variety seems be nothing more than a severe degree of scurvy, and should be separated from the disease now under consideration. It commences with tumefaction of the gums, which are of a livid colour, and bleed readily ; the secretion of saliva is increased ; the gums become detached from the alveolar processes, and the teeth are loosed. These local symptoms are usually accompanied by some fever, particu- larly towards evening, and by diarrhoea ; when they have continued for a time which is very indefinite (varying from a few days to some months), gray or lead-coloured spots are per- ceived upon the gums ; these spread, assume a gangrenous appearance, and soon involve the whole of the gums, the lips, and the cheeks. In some cases the maxillary bones are at- tacked, and portions of them are destroyed. The fever now assumes a low, nervous type, the child’s strength is exhausted, and death ensues in from eight to fourteen days after the commencement of gangrene. For the treat- ment of this form of gangrene of the mouth Richter recommends the use of mineral acids, in conjunction with mild tonics, and occasion- ally bark, camphor, or wine. The local reme- dies are the same as those employed in the other varieties. The gastric form is rare ; it is preceded by symptoms of gastric disorder, viz., nausea, vomiting, diarrhoea, loss of appetite, aph- tha;, &c. The disease begins in the mucous tissue of the cheeks or angle of the mouth by a small discoloured vesicle, which soon passes into a round, foul ulcer, with red circumscribed edges. The gangrenous ulcer extends, and in a few days there appears on the cheek an ash-coloured livid spot, which gradually spreads in all directions, embracing the cheeks, lips, nose, and walls of the mouth. As the disease advances the gastric symptoms increase, and the child dies in a state of ex- treme prostration ; the intellectual functions, however, usually remain undisturbed to the last. The metastatic variety of cancrum oris is that which supervenes on acute exanthematous disorders. It appears suddenly, with few or no premonitory symptoms ; a small hard tumour forms on the inner surface of the cheeks ; in two or three days the tumour increases, is harder and more red ; the inner surface of the cheek assumes a gangrenous appearance, and the breath is extremely foetid. The external surface of the cheek now becomes tumid, shining, and sometimes red ; and as the gan- grene spreads, the colour gradually changes to a dirty black, indicating the extension of the disease to the skin. The gums, opposite the gangrenous parts, are also involved, but this, according to Richter, is always a secondary occurrence. M. Taupin, who has written the most recent and the best memoir on gangrene of the mouth in children, divides the affection into three forms, the pseudo-membranous (couenneuse), the ulcerative, and the dry (char- bonneuse). As we have not observed our- selves with sufficient accuracy the first form, we shall give an abridged account of it from M. Taupin, and then pass to a consideration of the other two forms. Pseudo-membranous form.—This form cor- responds with the scorbutic variety of Richter, and occurs as a complication of some scorbutic affection. It generally commences on the gums, and never exists on the tongue or roof of the mouth. At the earliest stage of the disease the gums are observed to be tumid, red, soft, and fungous ; afterwards they are of a purplish colour, and bleed at the least touch ; the teeth are loose ; this state may continue for an indefinite time, but if neglected, it fre- quently passes into that of gangrene. The gums are now covered with a greyish and foetid exudation, which is reproduced as fast as it is removed ; on examining them closely they are seen to be of a purplish red colour, and present an unequal fungous appear- ance, with partial and slight ulceration of the mucous tissue. In this state they may con- tinue for a length of time, but should gangrene supervene, the gums become black, and are detatched in soft putrid masses, together with the teeth and portions of the alveolar pro- cesses. The pseudo-membranous form of gan- grene may, also, commence at any point of the parietes of the mouth. In such case we first observe a number of small pale yellow spots, situate in the mucous tissue, with some tumefaction and redness of the intervening mucous membrane. A whitish exudation is now thrown out by the affected parts, and