CONGELATION. 821 bit of wood or fur is less irritant than a metal- lic body, although not less cold. In the same manner gaseous substances, like atmospheric air are less irritant than solids, but there is still reason to think that an intensely cold air may excite a direct irritant action in a part suddenly uncovered and exposed to its influ- ence. Where the cold is not sufficiently in- tense to cause inflammation, it will still, when suddenly applied cause an increased vascular action, not incompatible with health. Of this we have examples in the redness, and throb- bing of the hands after rubbing them with snow, or immersing them in ice-cold water, and in the general glow of heat diffused over the body after the shock of the plunge-bath. It is not improbable that in these and all simi- lar cases in which there is a very sudden abstraction of heat, the immediate actions which ensue, ought not to be referred to the diminution of temperature, but to the power- ful, and often highly painful impression pro- duced upon the animal sensibility. In pro- portion to the degree of this impression on the animal sensibility, is the degree of re- action excited by cold ; if the impression be gently excitant, cold acts as a stimulant, caus- ing merely a re-action not incompatible with health ; if, again, the impression amount to pain, cold acts as an irritant, exciting the mor- bid action of inflammation. When we compare the local action of cold which we have just described, with the local action of heat, we cannot fail to perceive that they are perfectly similar. Intense cold sud- denly and rapidly applied, causes a burning sensation, immediately followed by inflamma- tion ; in the very same manner the heat of boiling-water or any other degree of heat, not so violent as to disorganize the animal tissues, causes a sensation of burning, immedi- ately followed by inflammation. The conclu- sion is inevitable, that the very rapid abstrac- tion of beat, and the very rapid communica- tion of it, as they produce the very same effects, must be held to exert the same kind of local action upon the body. Neither is there any good reason for regarding this con- clusion as paradoxical, derived from the oppo- site nature of heat and cold. The same mode of reasoning would lead us to conclude, be- cause oil of vitriol is an acid, and caustic potash an alkali, that, therefore, these sub- stances as they are opposed in chemical nature, should be opposed also in their local action on the living tissues of the body. Experience, however, shows us that oil of vitriol and potash, notwithstanding the oppo- sition in their chemical nature, exert the same local action on the body as irritants and caus- tics, and so also experience shows that heat and cold, notwithstanding the opposition in their physical nature, exert a local irritant action on the body which is the same in kind, and different only in degree. When cold is not applied suddenly, but gradually, and for a length of time, the effects which it produces arc very different from those described above. From the heat of the body being abstracted very gradually, the sen- sation produced is not sufficiently intense to prove irritant, and no re-action therefore im- mediately follows. But from the length of time during which the cold is applied, it is no longer confined in its effects to the super- ficies, but pervades the whole thickness of the part, gradually abstracting the vital heat. The effect of this gradual abstraction of heat is gradually to diminish vascular action, till at length the action of the vessels, and all the other functions of life are completely arrested, and if the cold be still longer continued complete congelation ensues. Cold, thus employed, instead of being stimulant or irritant, is of all physiological agents with which we are ac- quainted, that which in the most strict pro- priety of language merits the appellation of a sedative. Its sedative effects are most con- spicuous when applied locally to single parts, but it exerts a similar sedative action upon the whole body. When the gradual abstraction of the heat of any part of the body has been carried so far as to suspend completely all the functions of life, it is nevertheless perfectly ascertained that the vitality of the part may by judicious management be completely restored, and no serious consequences ensue. The violent re- action which so often takes place in such cases ought not, therefore, to be ascribed to cold, since it never takes place without the subse- quent application of heat. We have already quoted the observation of Larrey, that cold is merely the predisposing cause of frost-bites, and that heat subsequently applied is the ex- citing cause. This observation is strictly cor- rect with respect to cold applied in a gradual way, and it is by cold so applied that the great majority of frost-bites are produced. The effect of heat in causing inflammation and mortification in parts that have been congealed, or benumbed by cold, has been variously explained. The difficulty is to un- derstand why a slight degree of heat should produce such formidable effects. Some phy- siologists have contented themselves with saying, that in the debilitated state of the part a slight degree of the stimulus of heat will pro- duce as much effect, as would require a very intense heat in the ordinary state of vigor. This explanation, however, is perhaps more specious than satisfactory. Most probably the effects of heat are to be referred partly to an action exerted on the general system, and partly to a peculiar action exerted on the congealed part. The effect of heat on the general system consists in restoring the vigour of the circulation ; now it will easily be con- ceived if the vigour of the circulation be restored, and the blood impelled forcibly info a congealed part, while its vessels are still in an impervious state, that congestion, disor- ganization and mortification must be very likely to ensue. Still farther, cold applied to the congealed part itself produces an effect upon its tissues, rendering them prone to in-