BURNS AND SCALDS. 549 1 Clinical Reports. London, 1835. the contact of air excluded. In extensive burns, stimulant applications possess the fur- ther advantage, contrary to cold, of lessening the disposition to collapse. Here it must be especially minded that we are only to expose portions of the injured parts at a time. Care is likewise to be taken, so to arrange the dressings that they will not fall off. A bandage may be put loosely over them, by which they are kept in their places three or four days if required. Should the dressings become deranged, they must be daily re- newed. In deep and extensive burns, it is always to be feared, that the inflammation may deter- mine too powerful a re-action, and that the suppuration may exhaust the patient, by its abundance and duration. To prevent these dangerous sequelae in a burn occupying the great part of one of the lower extremities, the thigh and the corresponding side of the trunk, M. Lacretelle, of the Val-de-Grace at Paris, covered the principal portion of the burned surface with bladders filled with iced water, continuously for twelve or fifteen days. This ingenious plan was followed by complete success, and that almost unex- pected, in a case where the disorganization was so extensive. It is well worthy of imitation. Attention must be had to renew uninterrupt- edly the iced water, as soon as its temperature rises, so that its action may be abiding, and that no re-action be developed in the parts to which it is applied. This is indispensable, for if the refrigeration be not sedulously main- tained, this practice may prove injurious1. In cases of scald of the mucous membrane, as of the mouth or oesophagus, frequent ablu- tion with some bland fluid must be employed. If the windpipe has suffered, and symptoms of inflammation manifest themselves, leeches and poultices ought to be applied to the throat, and frequently repeated doses of calo- mel exhibited, in order to arrest or subdue the exudation of lymph. When the symptoms are intense, the operation of laryngotomy or of tracheotomy may be performed, with the effect of preventing impending suffocation, and perhaps of saving life. Dr. M. Hall has reported four fatal cases of this kind, in the last of which temporary relief was procured by the operation of tracheotomy, although the child subsequently sank from exhaustion, caused by the irritation of the primary affec- tion 2. To promote the healing of the sore is the next point to be attended to. If it be a su- perficial suppurating surface, it may be simply covered with carded cotton, or dusted over with some absorbent powder, as equal parts of chalk with oxide of zinc. Sir B. Brodie re- commends the powder to be put into a jelly- pot closed with a piece of gauze, as a ready means of dusting the pulverulent particles over the secreting surface. The powder ab- 1 Diet, do Mddccine. a Dr. M. Hall's Edition of Underwood, p. 364. sorbs the pus, forms a scab with it, under which the new cuticle is rapidly generated. It has been observed, that where a very su- perficial degree of ulceration takes place, the nervous papillae resist the ulcerative process more easily than the other structures, remain elevated above them, and stand forth pro- minently, giving an uneven appearance to the sore. Here various astringent and stimu- lant solutions will prove useful, as those of sulphate of zinc, sulphate of copper, and ni- trate of silver. They must be changed from time to time, as they lose their effect after a few days. Cerates of different kinds have been recommended : Delpech used always the opiate cerate, but in many instances unctuous applications, from their proneness to rancidity, irritate and retard the healing process. The separation of the slough is a natural process over which art has little control. Should it be an object of consequence, small poultices may be applied, or the water-dress- ing, that is, moistened lint covered with oiled- silk ; and where much pain is complained of, the moistening fluid may be medicated with various anodyne substances. If the slough be extensive, not only will the poultice, from its weight, prove a source of distress in itself, but tend, as Dr. Macfarlane has pointed out1 to induce exuberant and spongy gra- nulations, and to establish that kind of un- healthy action, which forms so serious an obstacle to cicatrization. It is best to anoint merely the edges with simple cerate, or in some cases the entire eschar, to prevent its becoming hard and horny, as from its un- yielding nature, it is apt to harass the patient on his shifting his position. When fluctuation is felt beneath the charred integument, it is proper to make an incision, in order to prevent the collection of pus. No traction must be ever attempted with a partially adherent eschar, but the floating margin may be cut away. When the discharge is very copious, and frequent change of dressing required, the tailed bandage of Scultetus is better than a common roller. After the slough is entirely separated, the sore is to be treated on the general principles of surgery. The formation of the new skin proceeds from the edge of the sore, gradually covering it in towards the centre, till the whole is inclosed. Sometimes, however, it begins to form in patches near the centre, or at some distance from the margins, and then spreads over the surface, and that, independently of any portion of old integument that may have been left at the time of receiving the injury. The cicatrix, closely analogous in its na- ture to the integuments destroyed, progres- sively spreads like a fine membrane over the granulations, having its growth from the sur- rounding uninjured skin ; at first red and soft, but becoming by degrees white and thick, so as to form a complete envelope in the situa-