415 ARTICULATIONS. of absorption, by tbe vessels of another tissue, would solve some difficulties in the pathology of cartilage ; but there is reason for believing that greater difficulties would follow its adop- tion. In the first place, as to the example of a necrotic bone, it must be remembered, that facts are still wanting to prove the possibility of the absorption of a foreign solid body, such as a dead bone, by living vessels. Bullets and shot remain for years imbedded in the body without undergoing any perceptible change ; and dead bones have been inserted into the medullary canal of living bones, have remained there for years, and on examination have been found entire. Indeed, it occasion- ally happens, that the whole of the dead shaft of a bone, whether opposed to cloacae or not, preserves its smoothness ; and the more com- mon occurrence of an irregular surface, smooth at one place and worm-eaten at another, may be accounted for by the fact which has been clearly established by Weidmann in his erudite and masterly Treatise on Necrosis, that often the centre of the shaft does not perish, but the bone dies irregularly. If, however, it were ad- mitted, that this process of absorption does take place in necrosis, the argument, though rendered more probable, would still be incon- clusive, inasmuch as there is a want of ana- logy between dead bone and living cartilages. The difficulty would still remain, that we know of no instance in which the vessels of one tis- sue, or of a newly developed membrane, are employed to effect the destruction of another tissue. And the argument may be pushed still further. It has been already established, that the cartilage is invested by a synovial membrane. In those cases in which the ab- sorption is said to commence on the free sur- face, as in synovitis, the vessels which carry on the process must make their first ravages on the membrane. If, therefore, the opinion combated be adopted, we shall have here the anomalous spectacle of a suicidal membrane prolonging its vessels, or throwing out a new membrane to effect its own annihilation ; like the fabled scorpion, girt with fire, that turns its venom inwards, and perishes self-destroyed. The argument drawn from the common commencement of ulceration at the margin of the cartilage, will apply equally to another view of the process by which this is effected. If, as there are many reasons for believing, the destruction of the cartilage commences bv an inflammation propagated to it, from the inflamed synovial membrane, in obedience to the law of morbid action which so frequently connects pleuritis with pneumonia, and which reveals to the practised surgeon the state of a hernial sac by the state of its investments, then it is easy to perceive why that portion of the cartilage which is in closest proximity to the inflamed membrane should first be affected. In a similar way the vascular prolongations which are found in the interior of a joint may be shown to be simply the ordinary results of inflammation, and not necessarily endowed with powers unknown in any other organ. These vascular fringes are of two sorts—somc- 12 times abnormal developments of the synovial tissue, at other times actual productions of a new membrane. In the first case, the folds or reduplications which, as w as observed in the brief sketch of the anatomy of synovial membranes, are frequently seen in the inte- rior of a joint, and most commonly at the margin of the cartilage, become, under inflam- mation, excessively tumid and injected, and overlap the cartilage, exactly as in pannus or pterygium, the conjunctiva becomes enor- mously developed, in consequence of inflam- mation. In the second case, where a new membrane is thrown out, wre have a state pre- cisely similar to that which is every day seen in the serous membranes, when coagulable lymph is effused, and being permeated by the vessels of the neighbouring parts, acquires organization. It may be farther observed, that ulceration of cartilage follows synovitis in joints which, from their form and construc- tion, seem scarcely capable of admitting the prolongation of vascular fringes between the articular surfaces ; as, for example, the wrist and tarsal joints. In fine, since in the inter- vertebral substance, which is scarcely, if at all, superior in vitality to articular cartilage, ulceration may go on, though no synovial membrane is involved; and, since it is ad- mitted, that ulceration of cartilage may occur as a primary affection, does it not seem fair to conclude, that the removal of this tissue, when occurring as the secondary effect of adjacent lesion, is self-effected, and does not require the intervention of a process different from any which is known to occur in other positions of the frame ? If the opinions now advocated be correct, the account which may be given of the dis- eases incident to articular cartilage is brief. There seems to be no intermediate stage be- tween inflammation and ulceration, unless wre are to regard as such the slightly swrollen and softened state in which cartilage is sometimes found around an ulcerating spot. To avoid the necessity of a needless periphrasis, the term chondritis will be employed to designate this morbid condition. The tissue may be either primarily or secondarily affected. When primarily affected, the ulcerating process some- times goes on for a long period without in- volving any other structure, but more com- monly the surrounding parts speedily partici- pate in the lesion, synovitis makes its appear- ance, the bone becomes inflamed, and at length the malady terminates, either in the establishment of ankylosis, or in the entire disintegration of the organ, demanding ampu- tation or excision. When secondarily af- fected, the cartilage takes on a diseased action in consequence of the spread of inflammation from the seat of the primary lesion to the contiguous parts. If that primary lesion has been in the synovial membrane, the cartilage will ulcerate on its free surface, first becoming gradually thinner, till the bone is denuded ; if in the bone, the reverse will happen, and a highly characteristic appearance will be presented on opening the joint.