44- EAR, AND HEARING, DISEASES OF. pressure. There is buzzing1 or clanging in the ear, dulness of hearing and vertigo. No mor- bid appearance is observable in the auditory passage at the commencement, but, by and by, both it and the membrana tympani are affected. The eyes become suffused, the side of the face cedematous, and the external ear red and sensitive. Irritation and burning is sometimes felt in the throat, the mucous mem- brane of which is found on examination much reddened. Infants are restless with their head, and grasp at the ear, or complain when it is touched. In conjunction with these symptoms there is inflammatory fever with delirium at night. The disease may terminate in resolution ; but in the greater number of cases the pain increases, sometimes to a dreadful degree, un- til, at the end of two or three or more days, a discharge of matter streaked with blood suddenly takes place, whereupon great relief is experienced, though the pain does not en- tirely cease. The matter in general bursts through the membrana tympani—it seldom escapes by the Eustachian tube, this being almost always impervious from tumefaction of its lining membrane. Chronic form. — In favourable cases, the discharge which succeeds the first evacuation of matter gradually becomes less, and the case goes on to a cure in the course of a month or six weeks. The disease, however, may fall into a chronic state, and the discharge be- come habitual constituting what is called pu- rulent otorrhoea. Purulent otorrhoea, however, is not always, nor most frequently preceded by so acute an inflammation ; it is often the consequence of one much less severe in its symptoms and running a slower course, involving the os- seous walls of the tympanum in a state of caries, and perforating or destroying the mem- brana tympani, and causing separation and discharge of the ossicles, especially the mal- leus and incus. The matter is, in some cases, whitish or greenish yellow, and thick; in other cases watery, bloody, generally acrid and stinking, sometimes insupportably so, and mixed with small pieces of dead bone ; some- times a fungous growth protrudes from the exposed cavity of the tympanum, into the auditory passage, and bleeding not unfre- quently takes place from the ear. The portio dura in its course through the aqueduct of Fallopius is frequently implicated in the mischief going on in the petrous bone, in which case there are convulsive twitchings, and paralysis of the muscles of the face. Sometimes, in addition to the fetid pu- rulent discharge from the auditory passage, there is profuse suppuration, kept up by a carious state of the mastoid process, in the cellular tissue around the ear, extending down even to the neck. Under such circumstances the patient becomes hectic, and if recovery takes place, it is very slow. In persons labouring under purulent otor- rhoea, acute inflammation and abscess may be renewed from time to time by exposure to cold, the improper use of stimulating injec- tions, &c., and that in a more or less violent degree. At length the abscess bursts, or is opened at the place where the fluctuation is most distinct; the mastoid process, perhaps, the skin over which had presented a dark livid red colour. Instead of this termination, however, the inflammation may spread to the brain and its membranes, and carry off the patient. Under such circumstances the dis- charge has been for the most part suddenly suppressed. The morbid appearances in the bodies of such as are cut off by this disease have been well noted by Professor Krukenberg of Halle They are the following: Greater or less de- struction of the membrana tympani; loss of the ossicles; the cavity of the tympanum filled with bloody matter, and its bony walls in a state of caries, which not unfrequently in- volves the osseous labyrinth, so that this, to- gether with the tympanum and mastoid cells, forms but one carious cavity filled with ill- conditioned matter. In one case w'hich had been mistaken and neglected, ichorous matter made its way through the mastoid process, and spread itself in the cellular tissue, along the sterno-mastoid muscle, as far as the ster- num. Krukenberg once found (in a man forty-three years old), the mastoid process swollen and converted into a soft, cheesy, homogeneous mass easily cut. Sometimes the w'hole petrous bone was unusually soft. The general integuments of the head, the membranes of the brain, the brain itself, wras not unfrequently much congested on the af- fected side. Between the membranes of the brain, and in the lateral ventricles, there were often effusions of water or plastic lymph. Similar effusions, but generally somewhat bloody, were found at the base of the skull, and in the vertebral canal. In several cases the cerebellum was in a state of suppuration on the side of the ear most affected ; in one case it presented a cyst the size of a pippin, containing a yellow puriform matter ; in ano- ther case, in a man aged twenty-six, the cyst contained very stinking matter, and commu- nicated through a carious opening with the cells of the mastoid process. When the whole internal ear was destroyed by caries, the dura mater covering the diseased petrous bone wms remarkably thickened, beset wdth tubercles, and the brain was at the same place very soft and livid. Krukenberg found, in one case, a carious opening in the petrous bone, through which matter had made its way into the cavity of the skull, and, according to him, had caused inflammation and gan- grene of the adjacent part of the brain and its membranes, and rendered the bones of the base of the skull carious. Phlebitis of the cerebral sinuses sometimes occurs as a result 1 Die Ohrentziindung, in his Jahrbiichcr der nm- bulatorischen Klinik zu Halle, Bd. ii. p. 203—252. Halle, 1824.