AMBULANCE. 112 assistants with twenty-four spring-waggons and forty long cars on the second line ; and by twelve staff-surgeons and twenty-four assistants on the third. The expense of such a corps might be adduced as an objection to its formation, but it would not cost the state more than a batta- lion of eight hundred men and a squadron of one hundred and fifty horse ; and when we reflect on the invaluable services they would render our suffering soldiers, distant from friends and home, and exposed to the accu- mulated miseries of war, the strictest economist would cheerfully sanction a much greater expenditure ; nor is there a commanding offi- cer in the service who would not hail with satisfaction such an establishment, as it would obviate the necessity of constantly thinning his ranks by detaching orderlies. Transport of Sick and Wounded.—If the hospital corps could prove of such essential service in the field, in the transport of the sick and wounded to the rear, their assistance would again present incalculable advantages. On this duty they would not only act as orderlies to ‘attend their charge, but would serve as an escort to the convoy ; since every private of the corps would be armed with a light carbine. For the purpose of moving the sick and wounded of an army, we have three means of transport ;—1. The conveyance belonging to the hospital corps ; 2. The transport of the commissariat, rendered disposable by con- sumption ; 3. Transport belonging to the inhabitants, and impressed for the service. We can only depend upon the first, mode of conveyance, but every exertion should be made to obtain the other means of transport. Officers of the commissariat should invaria- bly be directed to give timely information to the principal medical officers of corps of the time of the departure of their return-transports to the rear for supplies ; by this means regi- ments would gradually be disencumbered of their chronic cases, which by accumulation would materially impede the service, when operations in the front commence. These conveyances should be divided into classes. For instance, waggons, wains, or cars, &c., drawm by horses, mules, or oxen ; the number of men each can carry ; horses, mules, drome- daries, asses, &c., according to the greater ease and comfort, these several descriptions of conveyance may afford : the sick and wounded should be selected and classed. When water carriage can be found, it should be ascertained whether the boats are decked or open, or capable of being protected by an awning, that the sick may be embarked ac- cording to the nature of their ailments. When the sick and wounded are evacuated on the rear, to facilitate these operations, chains of communication should be established between the army and the general hospitals that are to receive them : each station or halting-place to be provided with a small detachment of the hospital corps, with a few spring-waggons and cars, assisted by the oc- casional passage of disposable commissariat transports, by which means the army would be imperceptibly relieved of their encum- brance. without trespassing heavily on the other means of transport. When the inhabi- tants have fled from their dwellings, which most probably will be found plundered, a small supply of hospital equipments should be issued at every halting-place ; but care should be taken that the sick and wounded soldier leaves his corps with his blanket, great-coat, canteen, &c. At every halt a rendezvous should be fixed upon for the transport and the sick to assemble the following morning. But when the sick are scattered about a large town, in distant quarters, as every individual concerned cannot exactly know the hour, if there is artillery in the place a gun should be fired half an hour before the time of departure, that the hospital corps, drivers, guides, &c. may repair in time to the assembly-ground. When transport is impressed, it would be desirable, when practicable, that each commu- nicating station should have a relief of convey- ance, by which means the peasantry could re- turn to their homes. When this unfortunately cannot be the case, the peasants will very frequently steal away their cattle during the night. Under such circumstances, the local authorities should be required to replace in- stantly the draught-horses or oxen withdrawn ; this will induce the people of every village to assist in watching the impressed cattle of their neighbours. It is impossible to impress too deeply upon the minds of all those who are in charge of convoys of sick and wounded, the absolute necessity of treating with kindness and humanity the unfortunate peasantry torn from their home and agricultural pursuits for the transport of our sick ; when possible, the drivers should be paid at the end of every journey ; at all events, their services should be remunerated at a reasonable distance from their abodes, and not by cheques on distant chests, which only become objects of a most disgraceful speculation, as their holder, unable to travel several hundred miles for his wages, will sell his orders, at a sad discount, to the vampyres who follow armies. Wffien the days' are short, the hospital corps should be pro- vided with torches. Straggling on the line of march should be carefully avoided, and the head of the convoy should be halted to bring up the rear, when’from any circumstances the continuity of the column has been broken up. Wheel conveyance should invariably move in the rear, and the slowest transport lead. During a Siege the hospital corps and am- bulance is also of great service; a certain proportion of men with their bearers should be stationed on such points of the parallels as the engineers may consider the safest from the fire of the town. Appointing medical officers to the trenches is a useless precaution. All the casualties should be transported by hand to a sheltered point, where the field- hospitals are established.