FRACTURE. 283 The employment of the starched bandage in the treatment of fractures is a proposal of recent date ; but the principle of this method, which consists in encasing the limb, or its fractured part, in an apparatus that hardens upon it, and forms a sort of solid mould, in which the limb is confined during the whole period of the treatment, has been known, and occasionally put into practice, ever since the time of Galen. He recommends fractures to be dressed with bandages and compresses im- pregnated with pitch, white of egg, &c., with a view to attain this end ; and the principle has been often adopted in more modern times, with more or less difference merely in the means used for carrying it into effect. Baron Lar- rey, who found the method in use in Spain, and who was probably struck forcibly by the advantages that must often attend it in mi- litary surgery, endeavoured to bring it into favour in France. His practice, in fractures of the lower extremity, was to place the limb extended on the eighteen-tailed or Scultetus’s bandage, and, having beat up a mixture of cam- phorated spirit, white of egg, and subacetate of lead, numerous thick compresses and the bandage were completely soaked with it ; he then proceeded to surround the limb immediately with the pads, and, in turn, to sup- port them by the tails of the bandage. Finally, a sort of splint, of rye straw wound round with narrow tape, was secured on all sides external to the bandage. When this apparatus dried, it formed a case so solid, and closely em- bracing the limb, that it might without dan- ger be moved in the bed ; or, that the patient might even venture to walk with the assistance of crutches, the fractured limb not bearing on the ground. The method of put- ting this principle in practice, introduced not many years since by M. Seutin, and now in extensive use in Belgium and France, is unquestionably the best hitherto devised. This method, that in which the starched ban- dage is employed, has met with much less favour in England. There are, no doubt, many cases to the treatment of which it is particu- larly adapted ; but as a general method of treating fractures, I am persuaded it will not permanently keep the hold it now has on the Continent. In Paris the use of Seutin’s method is almost universal ; and M. Vel- peau is one of its warmest advocates. In one of his clinical lectures he has described his manner of using it in fractures of the leg, and given an able exposition of its advantages. In these fractures, M. Seutin himself, after performing reduction and coaptation, places the leg upon Scultetus’s bandage, which he applies, and then lays a long compress to fill up the hollow on the inside and outside of the tendo Achillis. A thick coat of starch, such as washerwomen use, is then laid on the outside of the bandage with a brush. A second Scultetus’s bandage is now applied, and covered with starch in the same manner as the first. Two long pieces of pasteboard, cut to fit the leg, and wetted so as to be readily moulded upon it, are next placed, one on the posterior and outer, the other on the posterior and inner part of the limb, from the knee to the foot. The lower end of each splint is in- tended for the sole of the foot, and so formed, that when turned under and moulded upon it, exactly half the sole of its own side is covered and supported by it. A third and sometimes a fourth Scultetus’s bandage is applied over these splints, and liberally covered, as before, with starch. M. Velpeau substitutes a single- headed roller for the many-tailed bandage. The roller can be more easily applied, and gives firmer support to the limb and splints, than Scultetus’s bandage. In other respects, his method is nearly the same as M. Seutin’s. M. Velpeau directs two assistants, one laying hold of the limb with both hands at the knee, the other, with one hand on the heel and the other grasping the point of the foot, to make extension and counter-extension, and reduce the fracture. If tumefaction exist, he now places circular compresses around the tume- fied part; if it do not, a long graduated com- press is laid along the line of the interosseous space in front, and part of a very long single- headed roller, of the breadth of three fingers, is applied from the toes to the knee, each turn covering about half of the preceding one. An assistant, having covered the anterior part of his hands and fingers with newly prepared starch, smears with it the whole outer surface of the first layer of bandage. A second is im- mediately applied from the knee to the toes, two compresses having been previously placed so as to fill up the hollow on either side of the tendo Achillis. Three pasteboard splints, wet- ted and covered with starch, are next applied, one behind, from the top of the calf to the heel, another on the front and inside, and the third on the front and outside of the leg. Another piece of pasteboard, prepared in the same manner as these, and formed so as to fit the sole of the foot, is placed upon it. As soon as all these splints are adapted by the as- sistants, M. Velpeau applies, as before, another layer of the bandage from the toes to the knee, and again, another from the knee to the foot, so as to compress the whole uniformly ; the outer surface of each bandage being coated with starch. Nothing is now to be done but to allow the apparatus to dry. The limb is placed on a pillow, resting immediately, till the bandage is quite dry, on a folded sheet, to prevent the soiling of the bed- clothes. It is easy to imagine, after this de- scription, the modifications which would be necessary to adapt this mode of bandaging to other fractures. In three or four days the apparatus is quite dry and hard, forming a close and firm mould round the limb, which it com- presses and supports with an uniform and moderate force, that causes no uneasiness to the patient. It would be easy, in case of ne- cessity, to expedite the drying of the ban- dages, by placing jars of hot water, heated bricks, or something similar, along either side