159 ERYSIPELAS. or finally that badly directed, it had deter- mined salivation before the erysipelas was overcome l. According to Ricord, the whole of the ery- sipelatous surface, with a small edging of the healthy skin, should be lightly smeared over with recently prepared mercurial ointment; once a day is sufficient if the ointment be not rubbed off'; but if this occurrence should take place it will be necessary to repeat the in- crustion. As soon as the swelling subsides and the cpiderm wrinkles, although the red- ness and heat may still persist, the use of the ointment should be discontinued, as this cir- cumstance is the signal of the diminution of the phenomena of exhalation, and of the ten- dency towards the establishing of the equili- brium between this function and the absorp- tion. If, he adds, the mercurial applications be still persisted in, the absorption soon gets the ascendency, and accidents of mercurial absorption, salivation, diarrhoea, &c., may be determined. These inconveniences may also take place if the healthy skin be covered with the ointment, and without the advantage of preventing the extension of the erysipelas, as we see it act in several cases of syphilitic affec- tions, covering the symptoms once produced but not preventing their development. The erysipelas is to be thus pursued on each new part it may extend to, unless there be no tumefaction, for in this case the ointment should not be applied or danger of salivation will be again incurred. It is also useless and injurious to apply the ointment on the pldyc- taenae. To prevent salivation during the treatment, he recommends the use of an alu- minous gargle, and should it notwithstanding supervene, it should be promptly suppressed by the application of hydrochloric acid to the gums. The same difference of opinion exists with regard to the vaunted ectrotic virtues of cauterizations. The nitrate of silver, first used by Scrres in variola and zona 2, was sub- sequently employed by Mr. Higgenbottom in the treatment of erysipelas, and Dr. Ton- chan employs it with success in all inflamma- tions of the skin. Biett, although having often used it with advantage in erysipelas, was obliged in a severe case to have recourse to cauterizations with a solution of the nitrate of mercury in an equal part of nitric acid 4. Chomel after numerous trials has come to the conclusion that cauterizations, as well as vesication with the cantharides ointment, pro- duce favourable effects only when the ery- sipelas presents a simple redness without tumefaction, that is, when the disease is already at its decline ; but when a red tumefied bor- der, the certain indication of the extension of the erysipelas, exists, cauterization or vesica- 1 Notes communiquees a M. Lepelletier, Op. cit. 2 Annuairc Med-Chirurg, 1826. 3 Lancette Franqaise, 1831. t. v. on. 30. 4 Cazcnavc et Schedel, Abrege Pract. des Malad. de la Pcau. tion is of no avail in arresting its progress L Rayer avers that the result of his trials with the nitrate of silver is in direct opposition with that obtained by its numerous parti- zans2. It has been applied, either in the solid state or in strong solution, either on the entire surface of the eruption, or only on the healthy skin surrounding it. Some recom- mend the cauterization to be effected one inch or more beyond the eruption, in order to be sure that it will be made on all the im- paired integument. Notwithstanding the advantages obtained by Baron Larrey3 after Pelleton in the treat- ment of erysipelas by the application of the potential cautery, he has not had, and it is not likely that he ever will have, many followers. The use of blisters in the treatment of erysipelas is not of recent date. The intro- duction of this means is attributed to the Italians. Garcia Vasquez, surgeon to Ferdi- nand VI. relates in his translation of Heis- ter’s Surgery, having seen an eminent Italian physician apply them with decided advantage on the seat of the eruption in two cases of severe erysipelas4. But it is to Petit of Lyons5 and to Dupuytren that we are in- debted for having drawn from oblivion a means that fulfils important indications. It is applied on the seat of the eruption with the intention of fixing the erysipelas, circumscrib- ing its limits, and effecting its resolution on the adjoining healthy cuticle, to prevent the extension of the erysipelas, or half on the eruption and half on the healthy skin. Petit and Dupuytren used to employ it in the first way, and prolong its application till vesication was produced ; and if the erysipelas persisted, this latter eminent surgeon considered it ne- cessary to produce a permanent suppuration. Dr. Conte, however, recommends us to apply it only a hour or two according to the suscep- tibility of the skin, and to repeat its applica- tion in this way on each new eruption, add- ing, that if it be left more than two hours it increases, instead of stopping the progress of the affection 6. I have mentioned in the pre- ceding paragraph the conclusion Chomel has come to with respect to the effect of blisters, and shall add that Dupuytren during his lat- ter years considerably limited their use. They are especially indicated in the erratic form of the disease, or in cases of retrocession or ap- prehended metastasis. They should be wholly proscribed in adynamic erysipelas, as gan- grene has been seen to result from their use in this form of the disease 7. Incisions, admissible only in the purulent and phlegmonous forms of erysipelas, have 1 Op. cit. 2 Op. cit. 3 Archives Generates de Med. 1828, et Annuaire Med.-Chirurg. 1826. 4 Joum. Complement, du Diet, des Sciences Med. 1821. t. x. s Rodamel, Theses dc Montpellier, 1797. 6 Rousseau, Recueil de Med. et de Chirurg. Milit. t. xii. 2 I’atissicr, These oitee.