671 CANCER. dinary changes: Mr. Travers has known them form the base of the tumour, while a cauliflower fungus occupied half the tongue and covered the lower jaw. Acute pain is not a constant symptom ; there is generally an aching sensation ex- perienced, varied occasionally by sharp pangs darting in the direction of the ear. The necessity for constant sputation forms one of the most distressing concomitants of the disease : and at night the accumulation of the discharge interferes with the patient’s rest by exciting cough. The secreted mat- ters are swallowed in large quantities, and according to Begin sometimes glide into the respiratory passages ; this surgeon attri- butes the constitutional suffering in some measure to such deglutition. The mechanical action of the growth, particularly when it attains large size, produces pain and difficulty in articulation and in the mastication and de- glutition of food, gradually increasing until the performance of these functions becomes an impossibility. As an evil of a minor kind, the jaws are often unconsciously closed on the enlarged organ, which is very painfully compressed. The cachexia is sometimes ex- hibited in an intense degree. Mr. Travers fixes upon strong and healthy males of the age of 40 and upwards as the most usual subjects of lingual cancer ; the disease is, however, observed not unfrequently in the other sex, and in much younger in- dividuals. Cancerous disease of this organ is liable to be confounded with some other affections. Mr. Travers describes a globular tumour seated deeply in its substance, very uniform and unyielding on the surface, and like a marble in point of size, and to the feel. He has invariably found this tumour disap- pear under the use of alkalies and tonics. Having never opened it, or examined its structure, he is only enabled to presume it to be a cyst containing an albuminous fluid. Syphilitic ulceration, accompanied with indura- tion, so strongly resembles the scirrhous species, that it is occasionally next to im- possible to distinguish them. The former is, according to Begin, of greater extent; the induration more diffused, furrowed with deep fissures, and furnishing scarcely any discharge, The action of mercury is far from a test of the nature of the sore, as this mineral is some- times decidedly injurious where no question can be entertained of the really syphilitic nature of the ulcer. Lingual syphilitic sores are almost always secondary, but sometimes primary, as is proved by the results of inocula- tion. Simple ulceration generally depending upon the irritation of accumulated tartar or of a carious or prominent tooth, is usually to be distinguished by the rapid cure which follows the removal of the irritating agent. Erectile tumours' of the surface of the tongue are to be known by the peculiar characters of that 1 Brown ; Lancet, March 30, 1833. tissue : their liability to become the seat of cancerous deposit should not be forgotten. Mr. Warren describes an enlargement of the mucous glands, commonly occurring on the side of the tongue, with a red fungous ap- pearance, but differing from cancer by its being “ sensitive, not painful, and unattended with real ulceration or thickening of the tongue.” The diagnostic marks of some other affections will be stated in the article Tongue. The necessity of operating at an early period cannot be too strongly insisted on, especially on account of the greatly increased difficulty of removal when the disease ex- tends deeply towards the base of the organ. Mr. Travers has only known one case operated on at an advanced stage in which a relapse did not occur within a twelvemonth. The morbid growth may be removed by liga- ture or excision. The former plan ensures us from the dan- ger of the serious haemorrhage which some- times results from division of the ranine, &c. arteries. A curved needle, armed with a double ligature, is passed through the tongue and opposite the central part of the diseased mass ; the ligatures are then tightly tied, one in front, the other behind, so as to embrace both divisions of the cancer. This manoeuvre is difficult of execution when the disease ex- tends far back, as the posterior ligature can hardly be pushed far enough back to circum- scribe it. M. Begin, too, urges the vast tumefaction, the accumulation of putrid sanies, the pain, the difficulty of breathing, and other serious symptoms which almost inevitably follow this operation, as reasons for rejecting it altogether; he alludes to a case in which it proved fatal in a Parisian Hospital, from the violence of these symptoms. When about to excise the diseased mass, the surgeon, as a preliminary step, places small cork or wooden wedges between the teeth, to prevent the approximation of the jaws. If the cancer be seated towards the point or at the edge of the organ, it may be seized with the thumb and fore-finger of the left hand, previously covered with linen, and a straight bistoury being passed behind the diseased portion, the whole removed at a single stroke. In some cases the mass is so situated that a piece of triangular shape requires to be removed. Under such circum- stances Boyer and Langenbeck recommend the edges of the hiatus to be brought together by suture anteriorly, with a view to prevent haemorrhage and lessen subsequent deformity. Begin, however, denies the advantage of the suture in the latter respect, as the tissue of the tongue becomes elongated, and repairs the losses it may have sustained with ex- traordinar}' facility. When the disease ex- tends far back, an assistant is required to keep the tongue steadily out of the mouth. The fingers and a piece of linen are usually sufficient for the purpose ; where they fail, a pair of forceps with blades terminating in