BURS,® MUCOSA. 555 immediate and Jinn compression on the part: this inode is generally successful. The prac- tice recently adopted with, regard to hydrocele and ascites, might also be resorted to with benefit. By this plan, the needle is intro- duced into the collection of fluid, and a round aperture having been thus made in the evst, the fluid escaping from it, but not externally, becomes gradually extravasated into the sur- rounding cellular tissue, whence it is in time removed by absorption. Blisters, and stimu- lating applications, such as painting the part with tincture of iodine, will sometimes cure the disease in this first stage ; but in aid of them, it is necessary that the part be kept quite at rest: if the irritating cause be continued, suc- cess will not be obtained by these means. Sometimes the resolution of recent ganglions has been obtained by external applications, such as pressure by means of a metallic plate, mercurial frictions, diseutient plaisters, espe- cially that of hemlock, blisters, or the dilute liquid ammonia, &c. Where the ganglia are the result of rheuma- tic inflammation, or other constitutional errors, they must be met by constitutional remedies. Under their influence the morbid state be- comes modified ; leeches to the inflamed parts are also very useful, and often cure the com- plaint. Ganglia, from these causes, appear and disappear with the variations of the disorder which produced them. The subsequent stages are with greater difficulty cured, and the remedies are neces- sarily more severe than in the preceding. Supposing the sac be large, and its parietes very thick, puncture will only prove useful as a palliative means. Mattress-makers, and housemaids, often apply for relief when the bursa on the patella is enlarged, not from any suffering thereby occasioned, but simply on account of inconvenience and deformity from the bulk. In such cases, if the person is obliged to continue working, the bursa may be punctured from time to time with a hydro- cele trocar ; but it must be remembered that the fluid re-accumulates very rapidly, and sometimes so much constitutional disturbance follows this very simple procedure, that death has been known to ensue. This occurs when suppuration follows the puncture in the inte- rior of the sac, and its free egress is prevented by the small orifice, and has led to the prac- tice of laying open bursae throughout their whole length, and dressing with lint to induce suppuration, the use of setons, the application of caustic, and the excision of the bursa. The free opening of bursae is now very little practised. In some situations, as at the carpus, it would be obviously a dangerous proceeding, and one likely to be followed by the worst effects. Mr. Aston Key uses the seton, and con- siders that mode of treatment not only the most effectual, but the most mild. The object is to bring about the suppurative stage, that the cyst may be obliterated by granulation. When the suppurative stage has com- menced naturally, the only treatment neces- sary, is to subdue the excess of inflammation, and to hasten its progress towards the per- manent cure. Caustics are deservedly rejected, for the safe, simple, and efficacious practice of ex- cision. The bursal sac is generally so loosely connected with the surrounding tissues, that it is merely necessary to divide the skin, and separate the sac with the handle of the scalpel, taking care, of course, not to open it. The bursa on the patella and ole- cranon are, however, firmly attached to the bone, and require careful separation with the knife. The only caution necessary in these operations, is not to remove too much of the integument, or the contraction of the cicatrix will interfere with the free motion of the neigh- bouring joint; and, on the other hand, not to leave a loose bag for matter to form in. Care should be taken also not to wound the ten- dons : some practitioners content themselves with making a small incision into the tumour, having previously taken care so to stretch the skin upon it, that when the fluid is evacuated, no access shall be allowed to the air. Mode- rate pressure is then kept up till the cure is completed. Inflammation of the bursal thecce of ten- dons.—The same laws which govern in- flammatory action in the synovial mem- branes, and the distinct burs®, w'hose struc- tures we have above considered, are observed to prevail in inflammation of the bursal linings of the thecae of tendons ; but inas- much as the latter are more extended, and more intimately connected with parts pecu- liarly affected by inflammation, diseased action commencing in them often leads to a train of symptoms, more severe in their immediate effects, and more disastrous in their conse- quences. On this ground I propose to speak of thecal inflammation apart from the previous subject. The sheaths of tendons become inflamed from very slight causes ; a trifling bruise, or what is more frequent, a prick from a pointed instrument, which, in other parts, would scarcely be felt, are enough to produce the most formidable attack of inflammation in this structure. Inflammation in these parts at one time assumes a severe and acute form, at others it is slow and insidious in its progress, assuming an entirely chronic character. The acute thecal inflammation is very severe in all its stages. The pain at its commence- ment is very violent and of a tensive charac- ter, from the unyielding nature of the neigh- bouringtextures, which soon become swollen ; pressure is productive of the most exquisite pain, and an elastic feeling is communicated, as if fluid was situated beneath ; with this there is a general redness of the skin, and sometimes a diffused erysipelatous inflammation. If these symptoms are not arrested in a few hours, the formation of matter becomes certain, and the severity of the symptoms is much aggra- vated. The external appearances are perhaps not much changed at first, but very soon one part of the swelling becomes especially pro-