EAR, AND HEARING, DISEASES OF. 3 puts in motion the mass of air contained in the sinuses of the nasal fossae, and in the ca- vities of the ear, and gives rise to a sound very similar to that of bronchial respiration. “ When the stethoscope is applied over the mastoid process, the external auditory pas- sage, the superciliary ridges, the superior maxillary bones, or the nose of a healthy person, and he is requested to speak, the voice is heard to resound nearly in the same man- ner it does in the trachea, only with much less force. Sometimes, however, it distinctly tra- verses the cylinder. This resonance is heard more or less over the whole extent of the cranium. “ From these facts it may be inferred,” con- tinues Laennec, “that auscultation will become a sure means of ascertaining the existence of obliteration of the Eustachian tube, and will serve to determine the cases in which it may be proper to try injections into the tube, or to have recourse to perforation of the membrana tympani. The same means of exploration, moreover, may, without doubt, be applied to the study of different affections of the ear, and particularly to that of catarrhal and ul- cerous suppurations which have their seat there. “ I have explored,” he says farther, “ tho ear of a lady about forty-five years of age, whilst labouring under tinnitus, to which she has been several years subject, and I heard absolutely nothing. The air circulated with the most perfect freedom in the cavity of the tympanum, the Eustachian tube and the mas- toid cells. The tinnitus seemed, therefore, to be nothing but an acoustic illusion. Buz- zing in the ear, explored in the same manner, has appeared to me to be owing to a spasmodic contraction of the muscles of the ossicles1.” The artificial injection of air into the Eus- tachian tube, produces sounds which indicate the state of the middle ear with much greater precision than those arising from the mere efforts of respiration. The introduction of the air douche by Deleau, therefore, has served to give full effect to the ingenious suggestions of Laennec, above quoted. As to the labyrinth, the diagnosis of its diseases must be founded entirely on subjec- tive symptoms. And these are to be deter- mined as emanating from the labyrinth, only after careful examination has proved that there are no circumstances in the condition of the other parts of the organ sufficient to ac- count for them ; and even then it may remain doubtful, whether the disease have its seat actually in the labyrinth or in the auditory nerve before its entrance into the labyrinth, or in the brain. Before proceeding to the physical examination of the organ affected, we must first hear what the patient has to say of his ailment; what previous diseases he has had, and if he is suffering from pain. The existence of pain ought to regulate the extent 1 Laennec, Traite de 1’Auscultation Mediate, &e. 2de ed. tome i. p. 125. Paris, 1826'. of examination; perhaps forbid more than a glance into the auditory passage. The seat and character of the pain must determine in a great degree the treatment for the time. Flere it is to be remarked, that the changes in the structure of the ear leading to deafness, very frequently proceed unattended by any symptom, with the exception, perhaps, of weight and uneasiness, scarcely amounting to pain, and the patient becomes alarmed only when a very decided deterioration in the power of hearing, with or without constant noises in the ears, has taken place. Dulness of hearing is a more or less marked attendant on all diseases of the ear. In re- gard to many, it is the symptom which, as above said, first attracts the patient’s atten- tion ; and the restoration of hearing is, in most cases, the object desired by the patient, and aimed at by the practitioner. This being the case, it is of consequence to have some standard whereby to measure the power of hearing. The ticking of a watch is most con- venient for the purpose, but it is not to be forgotten to determine beforehand at what distance a healthy ear can perceive the sound emitted by the particular watch employed : in a still room, a loud-ticking watch may be heard at the distance of about thirty feet. In regard to estimating the degree of hearing by the distance at which a watch may be heard, however, it is to be remarked that the sus- ceptibility of the ear to the human voice is not always in proportion to its susceptibility to a definite and equable sound, such as that of the instrument above-mentioned. The power to follow conversation is, in fact, sometimes greater than might be supposed indicated by the shortness of the distance at which a watch is heard ; but, on the other hand, it is also sometimes considerably less. Many persons, whose hearing was otherwise good, Dr. Wol- laston ascertained were incapable of perceiv- ing very high or acute tones l. Notwithstand- ing this, an approximate conclusion regarding the state of the hearing, sufficient to regulate the diagnosis and treatment, may be made by means of the ticking of a watch, particularly as the sound can be admitted to the ear ex- amined always under similar circumstances. Part the First. Accessory Organs of the Apparatus of Hearing. 1st, Of tlie auricle, auditory passage, and membrana tympani. (a) Anatomy of the auricle, auditory passage, and membrana tympani. The auricle, or, in common language, the ear. The human auricle, as is known, pre- sents on the surface, directed outwards, pro- minences bounding depressions, of which the latter wind like a maze in different directions, but lead at last into the auditory passage. 1 Philosophical Transactions, vol. 110, p. 306. Lon- don, 1820.