547 BURNS AND SCALDS. f)laister, and remains connected with them till lealed”; while the external one, impermeable to the air, forms a sort of close felt, remarka- ble for its velvety softness ; the effects of which are principally to protect the sore against the irritant action of the atmosphere, and facilitate by this means the formation of a less irregular eschar. As this plant has not the inconvenience of becoming dry on the outside, it does not drag upon the still tender tissue of the cicatrix, and force it to assume a vicious direction. From the above account, taken from Vig- nal *, it is plain that the typha acts exactly as the cotton. But the latter, from the readi- ness with which it can be always procured in this country, will necessarily have the pre- ference. An inconvenience connected with cotton dressing is, that vermin are apt to nestle in it, and annoy the patients ; and in some cases it has been known to aggravate the pain and constitutional disturbance2. In the same class with the methods just described for excluding the contact of the ex- ternal air, may be ranked the dusting the part over with flour, or other desiccative powders. Flour, however, is liable to the objection, that if there be a discharge of matter, it forms a poultice or paste, that may become rancid, irritant, and very offensive. The combination of oxide of zinc with chalk is much superior. To arrest the development of inflammation, and the formation of phlyctenae, some of the old surgical writers advise holding the burnt part to the fire. Without denying the efficacy of such a proceeding, although it be difficult to account for it, unless we assume that similia similibus curantur, such a practice can only be resorted to, in the most trivial accidents of this sort, from the pain with which it is fraught. A more rational and not less efficacious means has been introduced by M. Bretonneau, of Tours. It consists in circular compression exercised upon the injured part by bandages, either dry or moistened with some discutient or narcotic solution. To obtain the desired good effects, it is proper, when vesicles are present, to give issue to the fluid contents by one or more punctures ; after which the pres- sure not only opposes the exhalation of se- rosity, but preserves the epidermis upon the rete mucosum, which is thus protected from the air and external agents. On removing the dressing, we find the epidermis dried up, and ready to peel off. If, on the other hand, the part be denuded, then is it in the first instance to be covered with oiled-silk, cut so as to prevent the slightest fold ; the skin, under the compression, recovers without passing to the state of suppuration. M. Velpeau3 is also a strong advocate for compression in cases of injury from burn. He has come to the conclusion that it rapidly as- suages the pain, and prevents or dissipates the 1 Theses clc Paris. 2 I)r. Macfarlane’s Clinical Reports. 3 Lnncette Fran<;aise, 183.'). erysipelas, which is a frequent concomitant. Inflammation is also either prevented, or its pro - gress arrested when developed. M. Velpeau substitutes for the bandages strips of adhesive plaister. These are to be applied equably over all the burned surface, in order that there may be no strangulation of any one portion. They must be applied so as not to allow of their yielding. For this end it is directed that each strap shall make a turn and a half round the limb. Where the region to which they are applied is unequal, the hollows are to be filled up with cotton or charpie. Their direction is to be modified according to the form of the part. Thus, on the leg, which forms a cone, they are to be disposed in a spiral, commencing from below upwards, each circle overlapping the one above to secure uniform compression. The frequency of dressing will depend on the amount of sur- face denuded, and the consecutive suppura- tion. If the discharge be copious, the plan- ters ought to be renewed every two days ; if moderate, once in ten or fifteen days will suffice. It is expedient to surround the part with carded cotton, where there is much matter secreted. Great caution is to be had in removing the straps, to prevent injury of the new skin. Hence, in dividing them with the scissors, we must begin from below. Their use is contra-indicated in per- sons whose skin is delicate, and prone to ery- sipelas. In such cases, probably soap plaister spread on silk might answer, as offering a very mild adhesive application, suggested to me by Mr. Howell, of Wandsworth. M. Velpeau seems to think that much of the virtue resides in the emplastic composition. Notwithstanding the advantage presented by compression, it is obvious that it is avail- able only in certain cases. Thus, in burns of the head or trunk, it is quite inadmissible, and its employment, even on the extremities, requires great care. A bandage or strap ill- applied, may occasion strangulation, and the most dangerous consequences. Resolution has been sometimes accomplished by abstraction of blood. Boerhaave and Van- Swieten have recommended, in the first in- stance, copious depletion. It is recorded of the former, that on one occasion, having had his face and arm scalded by the explosion of a Papin’s digester, he was bled on the instant to fainting ; this operation was repeated the following day, followed by a violent purgative ; he was thus enabled to appear in public on the nineteenth day. M. Jules Cloquet has suc- cessfully adopted the practice in superficial burns, by the application of a number of. leeches to the inflamed parts *. When there exists a solution of continuity without eschar, M. Lisfranc8 recommends the solutions of chloride of soda or lime, as substances eminently endued with the pro- perty of producing a plastic exudation, which becomes organized like other false membranes. 1 Visnal. Op. cit. 2 Mem. tic l’Academie, 1835. N n 2