86 EMPHYSEMA. sented themselves ; the mesenteric glands contained gas, which, like that found in other parts of the body, took fire and exploded, when brought in contact with the flame of a taper ; in burning, it formed a tuft, with a blue base and white apex. In the discussion which followed the narration of this case, the general voice of the members is said by M. Bouillaud to have been decidedly in favour of the gas having been produced by a commence- ment of decomposition during life. It appears to have consisted of protocarburet of hydro- gen, one of the ordinary products of putre- faction. Dr. Mouat has recently published a very conclusive case of emphysematous affec- tion originating in antecadaveric putrefaction. But some writers attempt to account for the development of gas in cases of this kind, in a different manner ; they presume that the tissues are capable of secreting aeriform fluids in the abnormal state, and the number of cases adduced as proving the fact is far from inconsiderable. Morgagni, for instance', speaks of an individual who became emphy- sematous after the sudden disappearance of scabies ; and it has been assumed that the formation of gas depended on the change in the state of the skin. The truth is, that the woman died on the sixth day of “ fever the occurrence of emphysema is, therefore, with less difficulty, explicable in the manner already adverted to. Schulze, again, narrates, that a child of three years old was seized with gene- ral emphysema, in consequence of inspiring an atmosphere vitiated by emanations from stagnant water and fermenting matters. Strange, if so, that the child should, in other respects, have enjoyed good health, and that six other individuals sleeping in the same room should have wholly escaped the dis- order. It is probable the emphysema was in this case artificially produced for the purpose of exciting charity. On the other hand, it must be admitted that authors relate some cases where the fidelity of the description cannot be called in question, and where it is difficult to conceive that putrefaction can have had any share in causing the emphysema. In the majority of these—the only cases which can be fairly termed idiopathic—the venous system and cellular membrane both contained gas; in some it existed in the veins only. Patholo- gists have long been aware of the occasional presence of air in the veins of the meninges; Morgagni, Halle, Nysten, and others, cite examples of the fact. Very recently, too, M. Lelut has announced his having discovered air in the meningeal veins of five malefactors put to death by the guillotine ; on examining the encephalon of rabbits decapitated experi- mentally, gas was likewise found in the same vessels. It is presumable that the external air may here have entered the divided extre- mities of the vessels ; but setting aside the fact that in some of the instances related no 1 Epist. xxxviii. § 22. external wound existed, certain experiments made on animals by M. Rerolle, apparently show that such a mode of accounting for its presence, is, at least, not always admissible. The last-named observer has published some cases of similar gaseous development in the human subject, apparently induced by profuse haemorrhage ; one of these is rendered parti- cularly remarkable by the fact, that the gas took fire with slight detonation, and burned with a blueish white flame, as in the case re- corded by M. Bally. The patient died of haemorrhage, after the removal of a scirrhous tumour in the dorso-lumbar region, and was examined six hours after death ; the ther- mometer marked only -(- 2 Reaum., and the emphysema was observed to be less developed than it had been during life : it must not be forgotten, however, that the wound had be- come gangrenous before death. Dr. Graves, too, has seen the subcutaneous tissue of the abdomen become emphysematous in a subject who had had repeated attacks of profuse epistaxis. Lieutaud, long before either of these observers, related the case of a girl who died suddenly in a state of syncope, after having been repeatedly bled, and in whom the cerebral veins and choroid plexus were found full of air '. Now admitting the fact, of which indeed no legitimate doubt can be raised, what is its cause ? Whence comes the gaseous fluid found in the vessels ? Portal, among other hypotheses, suggests that it may be caused by the absorption of atmospheric air through the tissue of the lungs. M. Rerolle rejects com- pletely the notion of spontaneous develop- ment, and admits Portal’s notion,—the pul- monary radicles being the presumed agents of absorption : M. Ollivier also enumerates this amongst the possible modes of explaining the presence of a large quantity of gas in the right side of the heart of a young woman, who fell down dead a fortnight after conva- lescence from an acute affection. M. Villerme has observed a case of in- flamed penis, in which the superficial veins of the glans became enormously dilated, and evidently contained gas, easily moveable by pressure, and giving rise to distinct crepita- tion. There was probably no resemblance between this case and those of which we have just spoken, except in the seat of the emphy- sema being the venous system. It is needless to multiply these illustrations: all those on record would only show that emphysema occasionally occurs independently of putrefaction, and of a communication be- tween the seat of the disorder and the atmo- sphere, or cavities naturally containing gaseous fluids, without by any means—such is the im- perfect character of the details of cases, as well as the difficulty of the subject—explain- ing its real mechanism. The hypothesis that the air is a product of secretion, will be con- sidered in the article Pneumatosis. 1 Hist. Anat. Med. p. Ill, obs. 55.