CANCER. 590 oil of turpentine, may be used for the same purpose. M. Raspail, who seems to regard it as a kind of universal panacea, says that it is sufficient to place a fragment on the affected tooth, so that its vapour may surround it, to quell any toothache. In facial neuralgia and cynanche, the pain is occasionally assuaged by chewing camphor, or snuffing it up the nostrils, reduced to a very fine powder. In similar cases M. Raspail recommends it to be used as a cigar, a few lumps of it being enclosed in a tube of paper, through which the air is inspired1. Reduced to a fine powder it is sometimes sprinkled thickly on the surface of indolent and sloughing ulcers, to excite their vitality, and to neutralize their noisome exhalations ; but for either purpose it is much less efficient than many other substances. There are some cases of irritable ulcers, however, which re- quire a frequent succession of mild stimulat- ing applications, and which it might occasion- ally benefit. It has been said to possess powers as a remedy for the itch, but every other substance with the least stimulating property, even brick-dust, has the same. It may, however, be occasionally of service as a palliative, if mixed with other remedies, to allay itching for a time. Some French surgeons combine it with all irritating applications in the treat- ment of skin disease. It has been supposed to possess the faculty of diminishing excitement of the breasts, of moderating their vascular action, of retarding the secretion of milk, and consequently of preventing inflammation of the breasts in newly-delivered women. For this purpose it is sometimes administered internally, some- times mixed with oil or yolk of egg, and ap- plied by friction, and sometimes merely sus- pended in a bag between the breasts. In either case its efficacy is doubtful. Dissolved in strong nitric acid it has been recommended as an application to recent wounds made whilst dissecting, and to other poisoned wounds, in order to destroy both the poison and the surface it was applied to, and so effectually to prevent it from con- taminating the system. It has also been applied to phagedenic ulcers ; but whether it can beneficially modify the virtues of the acid may be reasonably doubted. Camphor acts as a slight stimulant to the skin when its evaporation is prevented. Thus the solution in alcohol or strong acetic acid applied to a part, and covered with oiled silk, produces considerable heat and redness, and relieves spasmodic or slight inflammatory pain. But either vehicle will do nearly as well without the camphor. The solution of camphor in vinegar is sometimes mixed with meal into a poultice for chronic inflammatory swellings. Camphor is almost invariably combined 1 Raspail and Bcllanger de Scnlis. Bull, dc Therap. Jan. 1839, and Br. and F. Med. Rev. vol. vii. p. 549. with such liniments, ointments, and other external applications as are intended to as- suage pain, excite absorption of thickening or deposits, remove stiffness, and produce slight irritation of the skin. Thus it enters into the composition of most of the liniments in the Pharmacopoeia, and of the ceratum hydragyri compositum, the celebrated oint- ment of Scott for chronic affections of the joints. Camphor seems to derive its extensive em- ployment in medicine quite as much from its grateful odour as from its real virtues. It must be considered in most instances rather as an adjuvant than as the prominent ingre- dient in our prescriptions, and perhaps not its least valuable property is, that the patients are generally prepossessed in its favour, and convinced of its efficacy. ( Bobert Druitt.) CANCER (icapKIvoq, Gr. literally a crab; cancer, Lat. idem ; cancer, Fr.; krebs, krebs- geschwur, Ger. ; krceftgezwel, kankergezive/, Dutch ; krdj'ta, kruftskada, Swed. ; cancro, can- c/iero, Ital. ; cancer, cancro, Span.) The signification of the word Cancer has under- gone several changes since its introduction into medical language. It appears to have been originally applied by the Romans to the conditions termed gangrene and sphacelus by the Greeks ; while the term carcinoma was employed to designate the affection known by the moderns as cancer 1 : at a later period, however, authors used it as a synonym of carcinoma or carcinos (KapKivwpa, napidvog.) It could serve no useful purpose to inquire whether the fanciful pathologists of early times fixed on this name for the disease, be- cause they discovered a resemblance in the tumour and surrounding dilated veins to the body and claws of the crab ; or because they actually believed that an animal devoured the ulcerating parts ; or because, as some will have it, they simply wished to convey sym- bolically an idea of the loathsome character of the complaint : perhaps all three considera- tions influenced them in its selection. What- ever was the motive in thus naming it, the affection itself was at first presumed to be peculiar to the mamma ; but in proportion as morbid states of similar character were found to occur in other parts, they were included under the same general title. Thus we find Paulus ab iEgina defining cancer, a hard ir- regular tumour, with or without an ulcer, occurring in any part of the body, but most frequently in the mamma2. Early observers, struck forcibly by the difference of symptoms in the ulcerated and non-ulcerated stages of the disease, considered it expedient to mark this by a distinction of names ; they accor- dingly restricted the application of the word cancer to the former state, that of scirrhus to the latter. By a further refinement the scirrhous stage was subdivided into two, the 1 Parr in voc. 2 Lib. vi. cap. 45.