AMPUTATION. l;jf> each other in turns every three or four hours. 2 Dictionnaire de Medecine. arteries than ought to be lost during the ope- ration, without impeding the return by the veins, of that circulating in it at the time. This cannot be accomplished absolutely ; be- cause even the best means of preventing the arrival of blood by the arteries, impede more or less its return by the veins ; but it can be accomplished to the degree necessary, and often so completely that the patient loses only a part of that blood which happens to be cir- culating in the limb at the time of the opera- tion. The object can be best effected by pressure made with the fingers. Two or three fingers constitute a small instrument, which (as we have often heard Dupuytren exultingly say) possesses the immense supe- riority over all unliving instruments, of being endowed with the faculty of feeling, and which, therefore, can single out the principal artery of a limb, and press its tunics together so as to occlude its canal, without exercising much compression even on any venous vessel that may accompany it. The command of the circulation with the hand can only be intrusted to an assistant who understands it, and on whom the surgeon may depend. This assistant must place him- self by the side of the operator, quite at his ease, and stand as if leisurely feeling the pulse of the artery at the part where it is to be compressed, ready to stop the circulation in it at a moment’s notice. He should have ex- amined the patient at some convenient oppor- tunity prior to the operation, and ascertained the precise state and relative situation of the vessel on which he has to act, as well as the degree of pressure requisite to prevent the passage of blood through it. Just at the instant the incision is about to be commenced, he is to compress the vessel to this degree ; and in answer to the interro- gatory look or word of the operator, to inti- mate that he has the circulation in the limb at his command. The pressure should be equal, and made perpendicularly to the plane on which the artery rests, but rather from than towards any accompanying vein. The hand exercising it should be in the most easy position, and so placed that the ends of the finger fall plump upon the vessel. It will tire too soon if held in a cramped or uneasy position, or if too much force be em- ployed. When the assistant feels fatigue, he can change hands without letting the artery escape, by sliding one down close upon the other. With these precautions, pressure may be kept up for hours *. An experienced assistant can exercise pressure for a very long- time without fatigue, because he uses only the necessary degree of force, and takes care to hold himself and his hand in an easy posture. This is the plan of preventing haemorrhage 1 In a case where it was necessary to stop the pas- sage of the blood in the femoral artery for several days without impeding its venous circulation or injur- ing the skin, Dupuytren employed several assistants, who effected the object in this way. They relieved during amputation which is usually employed in the French hospitals, and which some English surgeons adopt *. Those who have never seen it tried will be agreeably surprised to find with what ease and certainty the passage of the blood may be completely stopped in a large artery by the fingers properly applied, provided the vessel rest upon something solid, as the femoral artery does on the os pubis, and the brachial artery on the upper third of the humerus. The great requisites are, to place the fingers directly over it, as when we feel the pulse at the wrist, to make the pressure perpendicularly to the resting-place, and to use a regular, and only the necessary degree of force. Much less force is necessary than would be sup- posed, a priori, as any person may discover by trying the experiment on a large artery in his own body, an experiment which teaches better than anything else how to enact the process. It has been urged as an objection to this plan, that the artery is apt to escape from under the fingers; but if this happens, the fingers can follow it; and in this, we repeat, lies the paramount advantage of compressing with them, rather than with a pad of any kind; as we feel what we are doing, and can regu- late the place, direction, and degree of pres- sure, as circumstances may require. It is true this plan cannot be adopted where the artery is not easily felt, or where lymphatic glands or hardened cellular tissue interpose between it and the fingers, or where it has no solid resting-place ; nor can it be applied where the arterial distribution is so anormal as to preclude its employment: where, for instance, the limb is supplied by several large arteries, instead of one main trunk, as it happened in a case in which M. Richerand amputated the arm1 2. In all these cases the tourniquet must be used. The other method, now in use, of suspend- ing the circulation in a limb during amputa- tion, consists in the exercise of pressure with a tourniquet. The principal precautions ne- cessary in using it are, to select the proper part of the limb for its application, to place the pad directly over the region of the artery, to protect this and the opposite region with a linen compress twice or thrice folded, and to exercise only the necessary degree of pressure, which may be ascertained by feeling the arteries below the place of compression. It should be the exclusive care of one assistant to watch the instrument, and to attend to the circulation in the limb, during the operation. The tourniquet ought not to be applied until 1 A short time ago, one of the authors of this article took charge of the circulation in the abdominal limb, during an amputation of the leg, performed at the Derby Hospital by Mr. Wright. As it was the first time the plan had been tried in this institution, it excited con- siderable attention. The operator and the surgeons present seemed to think it preferable to pressure made with the tourniquet.