ENTROPIUM. 133 lows that we can have little to say upon the special symptoms and diagnosis of endosteitis. From periosteitis and inflammation of the superficial bony strata, it may be distinguished commonly by the absence of perceptible swelling ; nevertheless the tendency to com- plication with disease of the other tissues deprives this sign of much of its value. It is true also, that the pain attending the disease, is usually remarkable from the deepness of its seat; but it is hardly necessary to insist upon the errors likely to follow from too great confidence in the affirmation of patients re- specting the precise seat of pain. Under certain circumstances there may be no pain at all, the membrane may after amputation be actually converted into a sac filled with pus, and yet the patient complain of no suf- fering in the limb. This seems to show that the pain commonly, we might say invariably, felt when the disease occupies a bone without solution of continuity communicating exter- nally, depends more on the confinement of the products of inflammatory exudation, than on the nature of the disease. It is impossible, in the present state of knowledge, to separate the history of the treatment of endosteitis from that of osteitis ; to the article descriptive of this disease, we consequently refer for information on the subject. (IValter Hayle Walshe.) ENEMA (from evirjfii, to inject; clysterium, Lat. ; lavement, Fr. ; Klister, Ger.) A sur- gical ministration, which consists in the injec- tion into the lower bowels, through the anus, of various kinds of remedies in a liquid or gaseous state. The instruments employed for this purpose are syringes, the enema appara- tus, or an ox-bladder and canula. ENTERALGIA (from evrtpov, intestine, and aXyof, pain), Colic. ENTEROCELE (from tvrepov, intestine, and Kt)\r;, tumour). A hernial tumour is so called when itscon tents consist of intestine only. ENTERO-CYSTOCELE (from tVTlQOV, and Kvang, a bladder; and ktumour). A rare species of hernia, in which the tumour is formed of the bladder, and a portion of intes- tine. ENTERO-EPIPLOCELE (fromthesame derivatives ; and tmxXoov, the omentum). A hernia formed of omentum and intestine. ENTERO-H YDROCELE (from the same derivatives, and vtiwp, water). An intestinal hernia complicated with hydrocele. It is not uncommon, and perhaps their coincidence may often hold the relations to each other of cause and effect. It is, indeed, easy to imagine that a hydrocele, by its weight and bulk, may so drag upon the spermatic cord and peritoneum, as to facilitate the descent of a portion of in- testine ; while, on the other hand, the pres- sure of an intestinal hernia in the scrotum will often determine an accumulation of fluid in the tunica vaginalis. See Hernia. ENTEROTOME (from ivnpov, intestine, and Tifivw, to cut). An instrument used by Cloquet in post mortem examinations, for rapidly slitting up the whole of the intestines. It is merely a large pair of scissors, one blade of which is much longer than the other, and probe pointed. Also an instrument described in Fistula, Intestinal. ENTRICHOMA. See Entropium, Tri- chiasis. ENTROPIUM (tp, in, rpf7rw, I turn). In- version of the eyelids. Fr. renversement des pau- pieres en dedans ; Germ, die Einwdrtsstulpung der Augenlieder. Entropium is the converse of ectropium. The free margin of the eyelid with the eye- lashes is turned in against the eyeball, which they keep in a state of great irritation by the friction they exert upon it. Sometimes how- ever, the eyelid is so much rolled upon itself, that its margin with the eyelashes is lodged in the inferior palpebral sinus of the conjunc- , tiva ; in which case there is little or no irri- tation. The margin of the eyelid may be inverted in part of its extent only, constituting partial entropium ; more commonly the entropium is complete. One eyelid only may be affected, or both eyelids together of one eye. Some- times one eyelid of one eye, and one eyelid of the other; sometimes again both eyelids of both eyes are turned in. The distress occasioned by the friction of the margin of the eyelid, and the eyelashes against the eyeball when an attempt is made to use the eye, together with the intolerance of light which is usually present in a greater or less degree, forces the patient to keep the eye always closed, or half closed and as much as possible at rest. In consequence of the constant irritation w'hich attends entropium, the conjunctiva corneae becomes vascular and opaque, and ultimately the whole conjunctiva thickened, dry and cuticular. Entropium is to be distinguished from tri- chiasis, which is attended by the same dis- tressing irritation. In trichiasis, the margin of the eyelid retains its proper position, whilst the eyelashes only are inverted. Entropium and trichiasis however not unfrequently co- exist. There are different forms of entropium de- pending on different morbid conditions of parts, and therefore requiring different modes of treatment. Entropium may be owing to :—1. Relax- ation of the integuments of the eyelid. 2. A contracted and deformed state of the tarsal cartilage. 3. Spasmodic contraction of the orbicularis palpebrarum muscle when long continued.