CEPHALH/EMATOMA. 757 the interspace between this membrane and the osseous surface, except over the protube- rances, is filled with cellular tissue of soft, reddish, and almost mucous appearance, in which a multitude of vessels ramify after emerging from the bones. The arrangement of the fibres of the latter is distinctly radiated, a fact traced by Haller to the mode in which the vessels diverge from the centre of ossifi- cation to the periphery of the bone. Thus constituted, the bones form a spongy sub- stance, saturated with blood, in such manner, that if either face be pressed upon after the removal of their investing membranes, blood oozes forth from the other;—so free is the communication, that if water be forcibly in- jected by the aorta or carotid, this pours forth in abundance on the,external surface, provided the pericranium have been removed. In ex- amining this point M. Valleix affirms he ascer- tained “ that the internal table of the cranial bones is formed first; that numerous vessels, ramifying on its surface, and constituting a rudimentary diploe, next deposit a multitude of osseous fibres, and, finally, that at a later period a layer of compact tissue—the external table—is produced ; thus there are three dis- tinct stages in cranial ossification. At birth the parietal prominences alone, traversed as they are by the majority of the nutritious ves- sels, have reached the final stage. And it is not a little remarkable, that those very parts of the bone, when at a later period both tables unite into one, and all trace of diploe is lost, are the only ones that at birth consist of two distinct tables separated by true diploe. For the first fifteen days of life, or in many in- stances for a much longer time, the bones reach the second stage only of ossification, ex- cept at the parietal prominences : they have a well-formed internal table, and a vascular diploe, but no external table.” The easy ex- prcssibility of blood from the cranial bones at birth may be ascertained ; respecting the ab- sence of the external table we cannot alto- gether coincide with this author. In the skulls we have examined for the purpose, by section and otherwise, both tables were distinctly visible ; nevertheless the spongy tissue was sufficiently exposed between the radiated fibres of the external table, to justify us in regarding this in a very imperfect state of development. We may now consider the state of these parts in infants affected with cephalhaematorna. The condition of the integuments has already been described. M. Valleix always found the fascia in the natural state. The peri- cranium, though invariably thickened, is said by this observer to retain its usual semi-trans- parency, and presents a smooth polished sur- face, resembling that of a serous membrane, on the side next the effused blood. In some instances observed by Chelius and others, it appears to have been partially ossified ; it ad- heres firmly to the upper edge and outer sur- face of the elevated rim already alluded to, so firmly, that occasionally (Burchard) the latter may be torn away in part during the removal of the former. Outside the upper edge of the elevated rim, the inner surface of the peri- cranium presents the natural rough appearance from adhering shreds of cellular tissue, as well as its other normal properties. Connected with the internal surface of the pericranium, and between it and the effused blood, is found an adventitious membrane, which, by careful dissection, may be traced over the surface of the bone, and found to form a sort of capsular investment for the blood. The aspect of this membrane varies from that of a merely gelatinous matter to that of condensed cellular or serous tissue, resembling precisely, when of the latter species, the pseudo-serous membrane produced round the blood in aneurismal sacs, and that effused into the cavity of the arachnoid, for example, as shown by Bizot1 and Bondet2. The condition of the portion of bone under- neath the tumour has been very differently described by different authors. Michaelis was of opinion that the effusion is always connected with caries of the bone, whereby the outer table is destroyed within the limits of the tumour, and the diploe laid bare. Palletta also maintained that a “ certain part of the external table of the cranium is deficient,” but does not express any distinct opinion upon the cause of such deficiency. Naegele and Zeller, on the other hand, affirm that unless the discharge of the contents of the tumour be delayed till a very late period, the bone is found to be healthy; and in proof of the fact adduces several cases in which, after incision of the tumour, the surface of the subjacent bone was felt to be smooth and polished. The notion of Michaelis and Palletta cannot be maintained ; the latter seems, indeed, to have refuted himself by describing a white gelati- nous membrane on the surface of the bone ; for, as M. Valleix has remarked, such an ap- pearance is never observed on carious or necrosed surfaces. According to this patholo- gist, the bone, if the tumour be opened early, is found in the condition already described as appertaining to health ; if at an advanced period, the surface is rendered rough by the progress of ossification of the external table. The smooth and polished feel described by Naegele, ho plausibly refers to the adventitious membrane already spoken of: the meaning of the term healthy, as used in the present instance by these two observers, of course widely varies. Burchard, on the other hand, maintains that the bone is invariably diseased; and there can be no doubt that in five out of nine cases ex- amined by him after death, there was either rounded perforation or fissure of' the bone; and although the precise period of occurrence and mechanism of this perforation has not yet been ascertained, it seems probable that a diseased condition of the bone, whether pre- ceding or following the effusion of blood, must 1 Mem. do ];i Soc. Med. <TObservation, t. i. 2 Meinoire sur 1'Hemorrbagic dcs Meninges, 1839.