67 3 CANCER. Bayle, there i3 dyspnoea. Sir C. Bell and Mr. Travers speak of “ difficult breathing’, frequent spasms and alarms of suffocation,” as constitut- ing part of the symptoms ; under these cir- cumstances the air-passages must be obstruct- ed, either directly or indirectly, by the volume of the mass in the pharynx. Here, as in other regions, haemorrhage may be the very first symptom noticed. In the case we observed at the Hotel-Dieu, a profuse discharge of blood took place, before any' pain or difficulty in deglutition had been experienced—a fact placed beyond all doubt by the uniformity of the patient’s replies under repeated question- ing. The effusion of blood frequently recurred and finally proved the cause of death : an open- ing of small size was discovered in the internal maxillary artery. The ordinary mode of death in cases of pharyngeal cancer is however by inanition ; the sufferer falls into the last stage of marasmus, and exhibits with its usual charac- ters the cancerous facies and discoloured skin. The disease may prove fatal by extending to the larynx, as in a case related by Sir C. Bell1. Simple hypertrophy of the walls of the pha- rynx is so rare an affection, that we have not been able to find a sufficient number of cases for the purpose of ascertaining the points by which it is distinguished from carcinomatous infiltration ; yet the importance of the distinc- tion for the surgeon’s reputation is obvious. Simple induration, with thickening of the sub- mucous tunic, will entail the same dysphagia as cancer, and, as we have had an opportunity of observing, lead to the rejection of the food through the nares. The effects of treatment and the ulterior progress of the disease should be watched for a time, before a decisive opi- nion is ventured upon.—Hernia of the mucous, through the fibres of the muscular coat2 * *, is ac- companied with difficulty of deglutition and is only to be distinguished by most careful examination.—See Pharynx. The distinc- tion of certain venereal and scrofulous sores from cancerous ulceration is to be esta- blished by the commemorative symptoms, the constitution of the subject, the state of other organs, and generally by the effects of treatment. Inoculation will not settle the question of the syphilitic or cancerous nature of a pharyngeal sore ; for venereal ulcers are in this situation secondary, and the matter of such surfaces does not, as M. Ricord has shown, produce chancre by inoculation. In the treatment of cancer of the pharynx the surgeon is almost completely restricted to palliative measures. Pain may be relieved by emollient and narcotic gargles ; the fetor and nauseous character of the discharge les- sened by the use of the chlorides in the same way. The obstruction to deglutition ’13 some- times so considerable, and this for a length of time before death, that the use of the cesopha- 1 Sing. Obs. vol. i. p. S3. J Ludlow in Med. Ohs. ami Inn. vol. iii.; and C. Bell, lor. oit. p. Gfi. VOL. I. gus-tube is required. But whatever delicacy and gentleness be observed in the introduction of this instrument, its repeated passage causes much irritation ; this is in some instances so violent and accompanied with such copious haemorrhage, that persisting in its use would only hasten the unfortunate sufferer’s end : in cases of this kind the tube may be left perma- nently in the canal; in this way its presence is not productive in some subjects of nearly so much irritation. Nutritious enemata and baths are indicated as a last resource. Haemorrhage may be restrained by astringent gargles. Begin and writers of the Broussaisian school of course recommend the direct application of leeches to the diseased part: chronic inflam- matory induration may be thus removed, but there is no proof to be found of their curative efficacy in carcinoma of this region. Cauteri- zation has been tried, but not with results warranting much confidence in this mode of treatment. Excision has, so far as we have been able to ascertain, been very rarely attempted. Inde- pendently of the general objections to the operation, the difficulty of making out the exact boundaries of the diseased formation, and of removing every particle of that which is discovered, must interfere very seriously with its probable success: nor should it be forgotten that, as Mr. Warren remarks, “ahe- morrhage might present itself from the deep parts involved, which no art could suppress.” The steps of the operation—should a case present itself in which the use of the knife seemed practicable—must vary according to the precise part affected ; the surgeon should be prepared to meet all difficulties and acci- dents, which it is possible to anticipate. (f.) (Esophagus.—Cancer of the oesopha- gus occurs most frequently at the upper end of the canal behind the larynx, most rarely at its middle part, and may, as in a case figured by Baiilie, occupy nearly its entire length and circumference. Infiltrated scir- rhus deposited in a stratiform manner, encir- cling the walls of the tube more or less com- pletely, and causing gradual diminution of its calibre, is the most common condition in which the disease presents itself. Distinct scirrhous tumours are comparatively very un- common ; tuberiform encephaloid still more so. The formation of cancerous matter in this region is, according to Bayle, commonly pre- ceded by pyrosis, hiccup, and transient pain in the fauces : it is certain, however, that suddenly developed dysphagia is frequently the first sign of its existence. The nature of the symptoms of oesophageal cancer is the same as w'hen the disease is seated in the pharynx, but as the contraction is seated lower down, the first stages of deglutition are accomplished naturally. Subsequently7, if the coarctation affect the upper end of the canal, the greater part of each mouthful of food at once regurgitates: if a lower part, three or four mouthfuls pass writh facility, and the accumulated matter is then gently expelled X x