118 AMPUTATION. of them in the lower animals, how much more strongly and completely may it be said of them in animals of a higher order. In man, and in most of the mammalia, the limbs, strictly speaking, are but prolongations of the trunk. Are not their nerves prolongations of the nervous matter of the trunk ? Their arteries, veins, and lymphatics the selfsame tubes as those of the body prolonged into them ? And do not the filaments of the great sympathetic, which creep along these vessels, connect the limbs to all the other parts of the body, internal and external, in the same manner as they connect and harmonize the viscera among themselves ? It is so, and on this account it would be no fiction to declare that amputation of both thighs at the hip-joints, is in some respects almost like the removal of one half the body. We are convinced that the surgeon who appeals to his anatomical knowledge will take this view of the limbs, and feel that they are more, much more than mere contiguous ap- pendages of the body. He will not allow the notion of lopping off a branch to save the trunk, to take too great possession of his mind, and prompt him to untimely amputa- tions ; but, on the contrary, will exert his best energies to combine means and chances with a view to heal and save both. Not to mention their vital importance, their intricate and beautiful construction, how orna- mental as well as serviceable are they! What a difference does man present when we con- template his body possessed of these valuable endowments, and when we see it shorn of the least portion of them ! Disguise as you will the loss of limb, the deformity must be great. Not even the sentiments which endear to us those who have sustained such a loss in de- fence of what we deem most worth the sacri- fice are sufficient to symmetrize to our view the mutilated person of the most gallant hero. We look upon the sailor who has lost a limb in the service of his country with feelings of regard and sympathy. But neither these, nor the triumphant feeling that his life and honour- able scars attest the power of surgery, can counterbalance the painful commiseration ex- cited by the cruel curtailment of his person, and stifle the rising sense of shame and re- gret that it should still be necessary to em- ploy the arts of war to mutilate mankind, and outrage the noblest work of the Creator. Historical Notice of Amputation.—By the history, or historical notice, of an operation, surgical writers generally understand little more than a brief sketch of the changes it has undergone, with the mention of the names of the authors of those changes, and of the periods at which they have been effected ; and in this signification only the title of the present section is intended to stand. The natural separation of the limbs in cases of mortification first taught mankind that cur- tailments of the body might be borne without loss of life, and would sometimes be a means of preserving it. The same lesson might have been learned from the accidental tearing oft' of a limb (in which case there is no haemor- rhage,) but it is probable such an accident had no share in introducing amputation into surgical therapeutics ; because by the earliest writers on surgery, and even by those who flourished as late as the thirteenth and four- teenth centuries, the operation is mentioned only in connexion with cases of mortification. Those authors did not dream of amputating except in cases of gangrene. Hippocrates, who says but little on ampu- tation, appears to have been of opinion that the operation was first suggested by the natu- ral separation of the dead from the living parts after mortification. What he states concerning it is, as far as it goes, like most of his statements, correct and valuable. He in- dicates the chief danger of amputating to arise from syncope (induced, he undoubtedly means, by loss of blood,) and advises as most likely to prevent haemorrhage, the adoption, after the operation, of a cool, light regimen, and the horizontal or rather elevated position of the stump. The first description of what may be called a method of amputating, is given by Celsus. It is a remarkable but undeniable fact, that in many parts, the surgery of this author is scarcely inferior to that of the present day. His plan of amputating is decidedly the best proposed up to the time of Jean Louis Petit; and, indeed, some of the precepts given in it must ever form part of the rules for performing a good amputation. He states that the soft parts are to be divided down to the bone between the living and dead ones, but so that some of the former be removed rather than any of the latter should remain, and so that the incision fall not against a joint; that they are then to be drawn back and dissected off so as to leave some of the bone bare ; and that the latter is to be sawn through close to the flesh adhering to it. But although in his fifth book, Celsus directs us, in cases of obstinate haemorrhage from wounds, to tie the bleeding vessels in two places, and then to divide them between the ligatures, he does not appear to have known that the ligature, or any other efficient means might be used for preventing or stopping haemorrhage in amputations ; for he not only omits recom- mending any, but confesses that the patient often dies from loss of blood during the ope- ration ; and there is nothing in the manner in which he directs the stump to be dressed cal- culated to stop the bleeding from it. Archigenes is supposed to have rendered amputation more safe from haemorrhage than his predecessors, by tying the principal vessels with a ligature, either passed through, or em- bracing the whole limb, to which he also applied cold water. He was thus enabled to perform amputation in the living parts, which he appears to have been the first boldly and decidedly to practise. He took pains to save the skin by fixing it back before beginning the incisions j cauterised the wound with a hot