107 AMAUROSIS. I shall first detail the most marked differ- ences between these cases and cases of actual disease, and afterwards the modes of detect- ing the feigned disease. Unless the belladonna or some other pre- paration, which produces like effect upon the iris, has been applied, the eyes of the im- postor present their ordinary and healthy characters, but there is usually some degree of assumed vacancy, and occasionally this symptom is well imitated. In what cases of amaurosis does the eye preserve a healthy character and the iris a free motion ? In some cases of congenital disease, and in the cat’s eye of Beer, in which the morbid appearance is very difficult to detect without a previous knowledge of its existence ; but with this, and with a dilated pupil, and modified light, it can be seen at pleasure. The history of the case and careful exami- nation would readily decide on either of these points. In amaurosis from cerebral disease we have occasionally an active iris, but very rarely so ; generally the pupils are more or less dilated, or one is so, or some degree of strabismus exists. I have never seen a perfect case of amaurosis from the cause mentioned, without some loss of power in one or both irides : here again the history and progress of the case will usually elicit the true disease. All the other forms of amaurosis, when per- fect, are attended with some organic change, or interruption of function in the iris or ap- pendages of the eye, which cannot be feigned, and are not therefore likely to be mistaken. The detection of the assumed disease may very often be made in getting the history of the case, provided the patient be allowed to tell his own story (which I consider best in all cases at first), for he is rarely sufficiently conversant with the ordinary symptoms to make a correct case ; he will probably describe symptoms which are incompatible with each other, or such as could not exist without other evidence, or some material errors may be de- tected by the well-informed medical man ; at all events by this means we gain much to lull or increase our suspicions. After this, an accurate examination should be made of the eyes, without and with the aid of belladonna to dilate the pupils ; for unless the disease has been of long standing, or the belladonna, or other matter producing the same effect, has been previously used, the pupils will dilate, from the use of belladonna, further than apparent when first examined : this may then enable the medical man to judge whether the pupils have been acted upon by medical means or not, to aid imposition. During the explanation of the patient, and the examination of the eyes, do not, if pos- sible, excite his suspicions of your opinion of any attempt at imposition, but rather endeavour to obtain nis confidence by a little well-timed pity, and agreement with his account,—you may thus often disarm him ; whilst other- wise, by creating suspicions, you alarm him, and he is constantly on his guard. If he be unprepared, the sudden approach of the finger, or any extraneous matter to the eye will cause a sudden blinking, if there be not amaurosis ; or you may observe that his eyes regard any one you may address quickly ; or, if you attract his attention mentally, he will perhaps unintentionally be induced to direct and fix his eyes upon your countenance, as a person in earnest conversation usually does. When suspicion is excited, or when the party is well upon his guard, it is sometimes very difficult to prove the existence of visual power ; but I have seldom failed to do this satisfactorily by perseverance. I have succeeded immediately by the fol- lowing means:—During conversation dropping some small object, as a knife or pencil sud- denly, which has been immediately picked up by the patient—pretending to see something in the room, or out of the window (if near) of curious or unusual character, the patient has been unguarded for a moment, and his eyes have followed the direction I have pointed to ; asking how the patient’s dress became tom or dirtied, his eyes have immediately been di- rected to the part mentioned or pointed to, and several other like expedients. In one case, of a little girl, which baffled me for two or three weeks, during which period she had been strictly watched but nothing elicited, I was engaged in conversation with her about her medicines, which she had much abhor- rence of, and after trying to persuade her to take them well, I said I would give her six- pence if she would promise to do so, she as- sented, and I held out a halfpenny towards her, which she directly said (without touching it) was not a sixpence : she had previously sat for hours together without moving, and would allow me to place my finger or other matter in contact with the cornea without flinching. Children generally sham blindness badly, and can be pretty easily detected, by keeping them on short allowance for a few days, and then placing some tempting food in the room with them, and leaving them for a little time alone ; and this plan often succeeds with adults—few persevere for any length of time in feigning total blindness, as they cannot bear the restraint it imposes upon them. An imperfect amaurosis is sometimes pre- tended which requires much judgment to de- cide upon ; the history of the case and the integrity of the organs are the best tests to guide the professional man. I recommend the attentive perusal of the following authors to the student in this divi- sion of ophthalmic medicine :— Bibliography.—Beer, G. J. Lehre ties Augen- kranklieiten. Copland, Dr., Amaurosis. Dictionary. Demours, Traite des Maladies des Yeux. Detrenzel, M., Manuel de l’Oculiste. Hey, W., Practical Ob- servations on Surgery. .Jacob, Dr., Amaurosis. Cyclopaedia of Practical Medicine. J'ungken, Lehre