66 ECTROPIUM. place. Lastly, the eyelid is to be supported by strips of plaister and a compress and band- age. The following operation proposed by Dief- fenbach is applicable only to the cases of eetropium under consideration. It is to be remarked, however, that though ingenious it is not better calculated to restore the lid to its natural position than the less complicated methods above described. Fig. 214. The everted eyelid being raised up as far as possible into its place, the surgeon makes a semilunar incision (e Fig. 3) through the skin, corresponding in direction to the curve of the edge of the orbit, and at the distance of about one-third of an inch from the ciliary mar- gin of the eyelid. The extremities of the inci- sion should not extend quite so far towards the nose or temple, as to be opposite the angles of the eye. The flap of skin comprehended by this semilunar incision being dissected up along with the part of the orbicularis muscle cor- responding to it, the conjunctiva, the adherent surface of which is now exposed, is to be slit through along the orbital margin of the tarsal cartilage and in the direction of the external wound. With a forceps the upper cut edge of the conjunctiva along with the orbital mar- gin of the tarsal cartilage is then to be drawn out through the external wound, with the edges of which it is to be united by means of the twisted suture, after the mucous surface of its included part has been rendered raw. By this means the ciliary margin of the eyelid a is drawn up to its natural position, whilst the part of the eyelid marked b is drawn down to- wards c. Eetropium from contraction of the skin in con- sequence of bad cicatrices, fyc. Eetropium from the contraction of the skin which takes place in consequence of cicatrization, as often affects the one eyelid as the other, and sometimes both, they being equally exposed to the wounds, burns, ab- scesses and ulcerations, by which the skin and subcutaneous cellular tissue of the eye- lids are liable to be destroyed to a greater or less extent. In cases in which the injury of the skin by burn, wound, or other cause, has been at the outer angle, this, together with the outer part of both eyelids is everted. In the form of eetropium now under con- sideration, the eversion is generally very com- plete, sometimes indeed to so great a degree that the ciliary margin of the eyelid, very much elongated, is drawn down upon the cheek or up to the eyebrow as the case may be. Eetropium of the upper eyelid it is obvious leaves the eyeball much more ex- posed than eetropium of the lower eyelid. Treatment.—This form of eetropium has exercised the operative ingenuity of sur- geons from a very early period, but it is re- cently only that much success has been ob- tained. Beer 1 writing so late as 1817 dis- cusses this form of eetropium in a section entitled “ Of the incurable diseases consequent to the ophthalmice.” The operation described bp Celsusfor lagoph- thalmus of the upper eyelid consisted in mak- ing a semilunar incision through the con- tracted integuments of the eyelid “ paulum infra supercilium cornubus ejus de- orsum spectantibus.” The eyelid being set free by the incision, was brought into its natu- ral position and an attempt made to heal the wound thus left by a broad cicatrice. For eetropium of the lower eyelid, he recom- mends a similar operation, “ plagae tantum,” he says, “cornua ad maxillas, non ad oculum convertenda sunt.” This operation, which indeed Celsus re- commends only when the loss of skin is in- considerable 2, has been performed over and over again, but it has always been found that the cicatrice gradually contracted until the eversion was as bad or worse than before. Professor Chelius3 of Heidelberg has some- what modified the above operation, and says the results he has thereby obtained have been, even in cases of very considerable shortening of the skin of the eyelid, successful beyond expectation. Chelius’s Operation.—An incision is made along the whole breadth of the eyelid, and as near its tarsal edge as possible, through the skin. The edges of the wound are to be dis- sected from the cellular tissue, so far that all tension of the skin may be removed, and the eyelid admit of being readily brought into its natural position. The fibres of the orbicularis are then to be divided by several vertical in- cisions. When the replacement of the eye- lid is opposed by a considerable tumefaction of the conjunctiva, a portion of this membrane is to be removed by the scissors and knife, and the external commissure of the eyelids slit up, to the extent of some lines, in a hori- zontal direction. After this,two loops ofthread are to be drawn through the skin by means of curved needles, near the tarsal edge of the eye- lid, but without wounding the tarsus. These threads are to be fastened by sticking-plaister 1 Lelirc von <lcn Augcnkrankhcitcn, u.s.w. Bd. ii. p. 239. Wien, 1817. 2 He acknowledges that when nimium palpebras deest, nulla id restituere curatio potest. 3 Ilandbuch d§r Augenheilkunde, u.s.f. Bd. ii. p. 157.