268 ANEURISM. exist as a distinct vessel, but its place is sup- plied by branches from the posterior tibial ; sometimes its anterior branch is furnished by the anterior tibial, or in rare cases by a per- forating branch from the posterior tibial.— (Green.) POPLITEAL ARTERY. This name is applied to the trunk of the inferior extremity from the point where the femoral artery passes through the tendinous attachment of the adductor and vastus ex- ternus muscles, to the lower edge of the popliteus muscles, where it divides into the arteries of the leg. The whole course of the vessel, which is directly downwards, with a slight inclination outwards, corresponds with the inferior fourth of the femur, and the supe- rior fifth of the tibia. At first, it lies in the middle of the space, -which is bounded by the biceps on the outside, and the semi-tendinosus and semi-membranosus on the inside ; it then passes over the back of the knee-joint, be- tween the two condyles of the femur, just before the notch that separates them, and then between the two heads of the gastrocnemius externus. The whole of this space is filled up with firm fat, in which the vessels and nerves are somewhat deeply imbedded, and in which are several small lymphatic ganglions. The artery itself lies deepest, the vein close upon it, but a little to its outer side, the nerve is the most superficial. On passing below' the joint, the artery rises more towards the sur- face, and its relations with the vein and nerve become altered as these pass over it to get to its inside, or they divide, the artery occupying a central situation between both. In conse- quence of this greater proximity to the sur- face, the vessel is much more easy of access, where it passes between the heads of the gas- trocnemius, a circumstance which may be turned to good account in operative surgery, as the ligature placed on the popliteal artery in this situation, will save very important arti- cular branches for carrying on the circulation after its interruption in so considerable a trunk. Ligature of the popliteal artery at its lower part:—The patient is made to lie on his belly, and the leg is held moderately extended. A longitudinal incision, corresponding with the line that separates the two heads of the gas- trocnemii, is made in the median line, begin- ning just below the joint, and extending be- tween three or four inches down the limb. The skin, cellular tissue, and fascia having been divided, the surgeon now lays aside the knife, and separates with his fingers the heads of the gastrocnemii. The popliteal artery is found, the vein and nerve, holding with it the relations already described. After the inci- sion is made, the leg should be bent slightly on the thigh, in order to facilitate the expo- sure of the artery ; care should also be taken not to wound the external saphena vein, should it lie in the line of the incision. The vein and nerve being drawn to the inside, the needle is passed beneath the artery from within, outwards. Fig. 91. Fig. 91. The lips of the incision being held apart by assistants, the semi-membranosus and biceps are seen under their fingers, the former to the inside, the lat- ter to the outside, a a, the popliteal artery raised above on an aneurism needle, below on a flexible di- rector, both armed with ligatures, d d ; b, the popli- teal vein receiving the posterior saphena vein ; c, the popliteal nerve. By prolonging the separation of the gas- trocnemii still further downwards, and dividing the firm aponeurosis of the soleus, the divi- sions of the popliteal artery also are ren- dered accessible to the ligature. In wounds of the lower half of the popli- teal artery, a ligature may be placed on any part of the upper half, either by enlarging the wound accidentally inflicted, or by cutting down upon it in the superior part of the hollow of the ham. The incision for this purpose should be very free, and should ex- tend from the upper part of the popliteal space, and near to the muscles that form its internal boundary, in a slightly oblique line, down to its middle at the back of the articu- lation. The skin and aponeurosis being di- vided, the fat that fills up the hollow of the ham comes into view. This is torn or sepa- rated with the fingers, or a blunt knife. The nerve being the most superficial, presents it- self first, the vein next, and then the artery. The isolation of the vessel is somewhat diffi- cult, on account of its depth, and close con- nexion with the vein. In meagre patients the dissection will be proportionally less diffi- cult. POPLITEAL SPACE. The great extent and depth of the popli- teal space, affords room for the development of an aneurismal tumour, and hence it is that these tumours often attain a certain size before they become prominent in the ham. The strong aponeurosis also, with which the space is closed and bound down, resists powerfully their rapid growth. Owing to these circum- stances, the aneurisms that occur in this re- gion present at first a somewhat flattened ap- pearance, enlarging gradually towards the sides, as the disease makes progress. The