554. BURSAE MUCOSAS. they are situated. The ganglion of the hand, more frequently than in any other class of persons, is met with in washerwomen, who use considerable exertion of their wrists in twist- ing, or what is called “ wringing” the clothes. The ganglion patellae is most common in housemaids, who are required to kneel at their work, and thereby subject the knee to frequent irritation. It will be understood, that such causes as excite inflammation of the bursal cyst, whether local or constitutional, produce ganglion. By the French1 a ganglion is considered to be a dropsical condition of the bursa, and so in- deed it is, as much as hydrocele or pericardial effusion ; but the dropsy, or increased secre- tion, is only the result of inflammatory action. In this light it should be regarded and treated of, in order to arrive at any satisfactory notion of the affection. With a view to a practical description of the subject, I shall draw the attention of the reader to three con- ditions in which the ganglion presents itself ; and these distinct states are the effect of inflammation in its separate stages, begun and continued in the bursal sac. The first effect of inflammation in.the bursa, as in all other secreting organs, is an increase of its natural secretion, and consequent dis- tension of the cyst. All we perceive is a soft, compressible, and elastic swelling, defined in its extent, the skin covering it being colour- less, and moveable over the tumour; if the skin is thin, the tumour is semitransparent, and may be slightly moved on the part on which it is situated. At this stage, at least, it will have formed no adhesions with other parts: and although the skin may not be painful, or discoloured, yet in the tumour itself a slight uneasiness is felt from disten- sion, and the part beyond the tumour seems much weakened. If the ganglion has been suddenly produced, or if it has been induced by an attack of rheumatism, the tumour is exquisitely sensitive to the touch, and a slight blow accidentally given to the part is acutely felt. A ganglion cut into at this pe- riod or stage, shows no alteration of structure ; the abundant secretion is the only evidence of its deviation from the natural state. The continuance of inflammation in the bursal membrane, and especially so, if it be aggravated by the perpetuation of the irri- tating cause which first set it up, leads neces- sarily on to the next stage. In passing to the second stage, the gan- glionic swelling becomes gradually more firm, until it is incompressibly hard and unyielding, or with considerable thickening of parts, a sen- sation is given to the hand of the surgeon, as if the tumour was partly solid, and partly fluid. Now even, the skin is in no degree discoloured, but it becomes adherent to the tumour, and the swelling itself becomes somewhat more adherent to the subjacent parts. In this stage, too, it has lost its semi-transparency. On cutting into the ganglion at this stage, 1 M. Begin, Diet, dc Med. ct Cliir. Prat. it is found that the cyst itself is much thick- ened, the cavity being filled with flakes of lymph, or a number of small granular bodies of various sizes, possessing the characters of the fibro-cartilage. The next period observable in the progress of ganglion is that of suppuration, and subse- quent ulceration. The arrival of this stage is for the most part long delayed ; the ganglion may remain passive for months and years, until, perhaps, fresh inflammation may be ex- cited in the part, and then suddenly and rapidly the formation of pus takes place. The tumour, which until now has been colour- less, assumes a fiery hue, its temperature is increased, severe pain attacks the part, and in a day or two suppuration is evident, the walls of the swelling, which had been thickened in the previous stage, become gradually thinner, and the tumour more swollen, ulceration soon causes the complete evacuation of the cyst, which at this time is found to contain pus mixed with the bursal fluid. During the progress of suppuration, which is generally of an unfavourable character, the febrile symp- toms become alarmingly high, and a very con- siderable degree of constitutional irritation is set up, accompanied with such great disturb- ance of the functions of the brain, as to create alarm for the safety of the patient. If the suppurative stage be slow, the consti- tutional symptoms are seldom severe, the only evil being an indolent wound from the indispo- sition of the sac to granulate. In some cases where suppuration occurs in the bursa of the patella, the sac gives way, and the pus collects in the cellular tissue around the joint. If the case be chronic, the knee has a very peculiar appearance, which has been mistaken for effu- sion within the synovial membrane. It is for- tunate that we have a very simple means to save us from so gross an error, the patella being in the one case in the front of the tumour thrown forward by the effusion, in the other it is concealed by the external suppura- tion. The treatment will vary with the situation of the bursa, the thickness of its parictes, and the consistence of its contents. Treatment.—The cure of ganglion is readily effected in its first stage, whilst the parietes of the sac are thin and transparent. The common mode is to cause the bursting of the cyst by a smart but decided blow on the swelling. Al- though this is the most painful, and to a timid person the most objectionable mode, it is the most speedy and effectual. By this, the con- tents of the sac are extravasated, and inflamma- tion sufficient is set up to cause adhesion of the cyst w ith the connecting parts ; and thus an en- tire obliteration of the cavity is obtained. In this mode it sometimes happens that the dis- ease returns, perhaps from the adhesions not having been perfect. If there is any difficulty in bursting the cyst by a blow, it will be readily done, by first making a puncture with a small needle. Another mode is that of puncturing the ganglion with the point of a lancet, or cataract needle, and making use of