BUBO. 530 there have been thousands of specifics adver- tised for hydrophobia, but only one or two for itch. As much of the complexity in the treatment of bubo is connected with that form ot it which accompanies venereal sores, it will not be necessary, in the present instance, to allude to remedies which appear to refer more par- ticularly to it. They can be discussed more satisfactorily, when syphilitic bubo is de- scribed. _ . The treatment of bubo is, of course, divisi- ble into general and local. The general treatment must necessarily vary as the bubo occurs in a healthy, a scrofu- lous, or a cachectic habit. When the bubo is of a healthy character, the general treatment is simple enough. Rest, low living, in the inflammatory stage, aperients, and saline medicines are the only measures that, are usually required. Some surgeons have recom- mended general bleeding, but the cases which call for it must certainly be rare. If an abscess forms and is opened, a more generous diet, the cessation of antiphlogistic discipline, tonic medicines combined with regulation ot the secretions, and in some cases change ot air and passive exercise, are the indications to be followed. As a general rule, rest is advisable before suppuration and after it. I have, how- ever, on two or three occasions, seen sinuses heal under exercise, which would not heal with repose ; this is unquestionably the exception. The general treatment of the scrofulous bubo and the cachectic, is the same as that ot other scrofulous and cachectic symptoms, and will be amply discussed at a future opportunity. Perhaps, however, I may be permitted to ob- serve that, in the scrofulous bubo, I have found full doses of the liquor potass®, combined with sarsaparilla, of most benefit, either when the glands have been merely indurated, or the suppuration has not been extensive. The liquor potass®, if given in quantity, is apt to depress persons of lax fibre, pale complexion, and weak habit. It generally agrees better with the ruddy, and with those of stout make, and phlegmatic temperament. As a medicine, it will not do to push it without watching its effects. Steel, in its various forms, is on the whole most applicable when suppuration is or has been abundant, and the boggy state of cellu- lar membrane is combined with diseased glands, and with numerous sinuses. Iodine, so far as I have seen, has not been productive of such marked advantage as the liquor potass®, sar- saparilla, and steel. I he iodide of potassium, however, in conjunction more especially with sarsaparilla, is at times highly beneficial. It would seem to exert a more decided influence on cachectic ulcerations and diseases of the periosteum and bones, than on scrofulous af- fections of the glands. 1 he cachectic bubo demands much care and discrimination in its general treatment. But as the subject of ca- chexia will come more legitimately before us hereafter, it would be premature to discuss it at present. Local treatment.—This will vary materially, as the bubo is in its first, or formative stao'e ; in that of induration ; of suppuration ; or of ulceration. And the kind of bubo, whe- ther simple, scrofulous, or cachectic, will also tend to modify it. When we find a bubo in its first stage, w® are naturally anxious to promote resolution, and, generally speaking, the attempt is per- severed in until it succeed, or it is clear that suppuration is occurring. If the tenderness is considerable, leeches should be applied, to the number of ten or twelve, or more, and the bleeding from the bites should be encouraged. I have thought that leeches were of more benefit, when placed around than on the inflamed glands. The leeches may be repeated, if the inflam- mation continues, or augments, and if they seem to be of service ; for sometimes they aggravate the tenderness and swelling, and obviously disagree1. In scrofulous and ca- chectic patients, leeches must be used more sparingly, or even avoided altogether. The amount of leeching may be regulated by the quantum of constitutional vigour, of local in- flammation, and of benefit derived from the first experiments. So soon as the bleeding from the leech- bites ceases, or, in slighter cases, when leeches are not called for, evaporating lotions are, generally, the best applications. The most eligible form of evaporating lotion is one com- posed of the liquor plumbi, some spirit, and water. This should be used in the most effectual manner possible '2. Cold applications, however, disagree with some persons, and more particularly with the scrofulous and the cachectic. Hot fomentations, or a poultice, suit them better, and not'only are more grate- ful, but more effectually favour resolution. These means prove successful in the majo- rity of instances. But they occasionally tail, and suppuration seems impending. Under these circumstances, other measures have been more or less recommended. These essentially consist in exciting irritation on the surface. This may be done, and, I believe/ is best done, by a blister, either in its ordinary form, or in tfiat of the liquor lytt®. I have, on several occasions, seen a bubo apparently cer- tain to suppurate, resolved by one or two blisters. The nitrate of silver has been used for the same purpose, by the late Dr. Wallace, of Dublin—and the sulphate of copper, the chloride of zinc, the tincture of iodine, the bi- chloride of mercury, &c., have been employed with the same view. When I come to syphi- litic bubo, I shall detail these methods more 1 It lias been recommended to employ what iscallec ■ permanent leeching,” that is, relays of leeches, a resh set being applied, so soon as the bleeding r°m lie previous set begins to flag. In this way, >e eechcs are kept at work for twelve hours, or more temcdics of this description are more easily manage n hospitals than in private practice. 3 Many other refrigerating lotions, and even ic , lave been employed.