19 ABORTION. and organs of the foetus, during putrefac- tion. In general, however, when the foetus is dead, it is speedily expelled from the uterus. But it has been known to remain during twenty-eight days, in the case of a woman who was seven months pregnant (Velpeau), and M. Prout informed this author of a case of a foetus between three and four months which was retained for five months after the commencement of the abortion. When the foetus dies at the sixth, seventh, or eighth month, which often occurs in women tainted with syphilis, it is generally expelled between the seventh and eighth month; and when it dies from other causes, it may be retained until the ninth month, and in some cases for years. In such cases, the foetus may escape entire, or in parts. It may be expelled when blighted, while a living infant may sojourn in the uterus, and be born alive at the full term of pregnancy. The records of obstetricy con- tain many such examples ; other cases are also mentioned in which the blighted foetus was retained, and born with the living one. Dr. Blundell states that when the foetus is blighted in the early months, it may be re- tained until the term of pregnancy. After the death of the foetus, the circulation between it and the mother ceases, and the uterine haemorrhage is seldom fatal. When the foetus is dead, or the placenta decomposed, there will be a fetid discharge, accompanied by nervousness and more or less constitutional irritation; but these symptoms are sometimes absent. They are, however, urgent in most abortions from the first to the third month of pregnancy, and require sedatives, tonics, and nourishing diet, in addition to the local and general means recommended hereafter. M. Ansiaux speaks of a fcetus that died at the fourth month, and was not expelled until the end of pregnancy1. Ozanam described a fcetus converted into an irregular mass which weighed six pounds2. Huzard has ob- served the same in ewes, and Carus esta- blished that the fcetus may be absorbed, de- composed, or covered with a calcareous crust3. He mentions a woman who was in irregular labour in 1814, and was still pregnant in 1820. The fcetus remained fifty years in the uterus of another of his patients1. Lieutaud relates several examples of the fcetus having remained in the womb for twenty, thirty, and forty years. Recent writers have mentioned cases of retention of the fcetus for a shorter period. M. Velpeau saw a woman in April, 1834, with M. Vasseur, whose fcetus had remained since the autumn of 1833 without any serious in- convenience, and he observed another with MM. Puzin and Moreau in which the woman died at the end of the third month, and the fcEtus was unaltered. Barbaut describes the 1 Clin. Chir., 1829. 2 Compte rendu des hospitanx de Lyons, 1823. 3 ZurLehre von Schwangerschaft undGeburt Phys., Leipzig, 1822. 1 Bull, de la Faculte. case of a fcetus which died about the fourth month, and was not expelled before the eighth1, and another which died at the same age, and was not thrown off until the ninth month. In both cases the membranes were thick and tough, and contained but little fluid. Cases of early abortion of the second and third month have fallen under my own obser- vation, in which the placenta was retained from one to twelve weeks after the expulsion of the fcetus, and without having been much altered. It is also said that the membranes may be developed, and that the decidua may become thickened. In such cases, the amnios is said to disappear, the cavity of the chorion becomes gradually thickened, and assumes the form of a solid fleshy mass, in the centre of which is a cavity generally containing a serous fluid. The placenta may continue to increase, or may be infiltrated; and when expelled, it may possess none of its primitive characters. The alterations of the ovum, according to M. Velpeau and Dr. Granville, are numerous and cannot be easily discovered. They usually form moles, and their appearances are so di- versified that it would occupy a large volume to describe them. MM. Velpeau and Breschet have also given illustrations of multiform abortions in their respective works on human ovology. I may observe, that in my opinion, the different pro- ducts elucidated in the first ten plates of Dr. Granville’s work were evidently morbid; the same has been stated lately respecting those of M. Velpeau, before the Academy of Sciences by M. Coste and Dr. Alexander Thomson. (Gazette Medicate, Journ. Hebd., Sfc., Oct. 1835.) It often happens that the fcetus and its appendages are expelled entire. I have known examples at every period of utero-gestation, from the first to the sixth month, and the same thing occurs from the sixth to the ninth month. The expulsion of the entire ovum occurs most frequently at the end of the second month. M. Velpeau has observed one case in which the foetus was expelled covered with the membranes at the sixth; and I have also met with a similar example. Diembroeck is of opinion that it may occur at the full period of utero-gestation, and I have been informed of two examples. (Anat. du Corps Hum., t. i.) Baron Larrey sent M. Velpeau a fcetus thus enveloped at the fifth month and a half; and M. Eryaud reports a similar one. (Thesis, Paris, 1831.) M. Stoltz has seen a case at five months. (JDeubel. Thesis at Strasburg. April, 1834.) Marson has met with an ex- ample at the eighth month. (Deubel, op. cit.) MM. Velpeau and Ricord have seen several in the first months of pregnancy, in which the ova were expelled covered by the amnios alone. (Traite Complet d'Accouchemens, fyc., 1835.) It generally happens, however, in the early months of pregnancy, that the ovum is 1 Corn's d’Acconcliemens, &c. C 2