ANATOMY, MORBID. 199 The last division comprises a very great number and variety of morbid appearances, in which many of the characters already named will be present. It embraces all those de- rangements which are the result of accidental injuries. The classification of pathological alterations, of which an outline has just been sketched, may be applied to different parts in various methods. That which is founded on the divisions of general anatomy, is the most convenient for the elucidation of the subject in a course of lectures. Other classifications may be more advanta- geously employed, both for the arrangement of the preparations in a museum, and in treat- ing of pathology in connexion with symptoms ; since for both of these purposes it is desirable to bring together the derangement of a particu- lar part, or of the apparatus of a particular function. I believe that the classification ex- hibited in the second table of the catalogue of the Museum of Guy’s Hospital will be found as convenient as any which has been proposed for these objects. Pathological anatomy, like most other sub- jects which have of late years become the matter of special attention, has acquired a nomenclature of its own. Although a good and expressive nomenclature in any science is unquestionably a great advantage as an aid to classification, and in affording great facili- ties to description by saving endless repeti- tions, and long periphrases ; there is also no doubt that nomenclature may be abused to the incumbrance and obscurity of the science to which it is applied. Morbid anatomy is not free from this evil, although it exists to a less extent than is the case in some other departments of science, which relate to more numerous and complica- ted objects. Although the terms employed by patholo- gical anatomists are already sufficiently nume- rous to render a good glossary an important desideratum, it is less in the number of the terms newly invented than in the mode of their application, that the principal cause of obscurity exists. I shall not attempt to pur- sue this subject at present, since it might be extended to many pages, but I shall adduce a few examples by way of illustration. Many of the terms employed in pathologi- cal anatomy, show by their etymology, more or less of the meaning which they are de- signed to convey, as may be seen in the words hyperaemia, anaemia, hypercrinia, and acrinia, employed by Andral; and in the terms epi- phlogose, metaphlogose, kyperphlogose, osteo- sclerose, osteophile, gonocace, spondylocace, phlebectasie, and many others made use of by Lobstein. In some other words the meaning is still less concealed, but being designed to convey the idea of a resemblance which can never be exact, and literally susceptible of acceptation, the application must be vague and indeterminate. Of this description are the terms pancreatic, lardaceous, miltlike, and other terms applied to tumours. The difficulty, in many instances, does not depend on the obscurity of the meaning, but rather on the vagueness and laxity of the ap- plication, the same term being either applied to different objects at different times, or made to embrace a variety of objects essentially dis- tinct. The word hydatid is an illustration of the statement which I have just made. From its etymology, it may be said to be applicable to any cyst containing a watery fluid, and as such, we find it made use of in speaking of those watery vesicular bodies which are occa- sionally found in the structures of the body, but not having any direct connexion with the parts in which they are lodged, give evidence of a distinct life of their own. Such are the acephalocystis, the echinococcus, and the cysticircus. The term hydatid is likewise applied to the cysts not uncommonly found in the plexus choroides; to those which either singly, or in numerous association, are found more or less imbedded in the glandular sub- stance of the kidneys ; to the serous and mucous cysts, which constitute subordinate cysts in various cases of ovarian dropsy and other similar tumours. It is also applied to those vesicular bodies which are occasionally expelled from the uterus, and which bear some slight and imperfect resemblance to blighted bunches of grapes. The term hyda- tid, thus loosely employed, may possibly not be accompanied by any confusion of ideas in the mind of the person using it; but in many instances it has been so, and a doubtful or confused idea must necessarily be conveyed to the mind of the reader or hearer. The word tubercle, evidently implying a small tumour, and its derivatives tubercular and tuberculous, afford a striking example of the employment of the same word to convey different meanings. Sometimes it is employed with reference to the form and size of the body described, as when we say a scrofulous tubercle, a scirrhous tubercle, and a melanotic tubercle. At other times, the term is de- signed to convey a particular idea of the material of which the body spoken of is com- posed, and is therefore used whether the body be small or large ; whether it possesses a rounded figure, or is diffused in the form of an irregular mass. In the latter sense it is used by Laennec, Beclard, and Andral ; by some other persons it is used occasionally in both senses. The word scirrhus as I have before remarked, is sometimes used to desig- nate a particular and fatal disease; and at other times it merely implies that considerable induration has taken place. The word hcematome, implying a bloody tumour, is obscure and indefinite, not because it is employed in different and distinct senses, but because it points to a character which cannot be properly employed as a ground of distinction. Thus an aneurismal sac is a tumour containing blood. The capacious cells, which occur in some cases of fungoid disease, may