125 AMPUTATION. ration was performed in parts not sound but too much injured to take on or sustain healthy inflammation. This last cause accounts for the difference of opinion existing on this sub- ject, and enables us to explain why Sharpe, Pott, and others, who had often seen mortifi- cation lay hold of the stump, insisted that the operation should be deferred until the morti- fication was arrested by the formation of an inflammatory circle1. Caries.—We now know this disease to be an inflammation of the osseous tissue, in the stage of softening or suppuration, and can therefore account for its attacking, in preference, that part of this tissue which is loose and vascular, as we find it in the short and in the extremities of long bones. At a certain stage of caries, the bony tissue is irrecoverably disorganized ; and as the consequences of the disease may prey upon the constitution till the life of the patient is exhausted, there are many cases of it which require amputation. It is the chief and most incurable alteration which takes place in a vast number of those diseases, blended under the indefinite name of white-swelling. In general, it is only at the very outset of caries that there is any chance of restoring the affected parts to a healthy state; (and ex- cept in cases of early efficient treatment, and those in which it terminates by anchylosis before the constitution is irrecoverably im- paired,) whenever it is too extensive to allow of the removal of the diseased bone, we have only to choose between amputation and the death of the patient. Amputation is a good remedy for caries when otherwise incurable ; because, as experience has proved, the health of those affected, and whose original conform- ation is mostly the great cause of the disease, often improves after the operation ; not only from the removal of the source of mischief, but because the quantum of vital energy as if pre- viously too small for the entire body, becomes sufficient for it after the curtailment of a limb. Certain it is, that the bodies of such persons do often prosper, if they resist the shock and immediate consequences of the opera- tion. In caries, then, when the bone is decidedly in a softened and suppurative state, beyond the chance of recovery ; and when important organs are seriously menaced by the progress of the disease, there should be no hesitation about performing the operation. For the reason we have mentioned, that in this case the lopping off a diseased branch is often of 1 At a time when our pathological knowledge was less perfect than it is at present, mortification was mis- taken for a sort of active process, or spreading disease, because in most cases it begins at the extremity of a limb, and gradually extends towards the trunk, and thus seems to spread by a sort of contagion. But this happens because the vital processes diminish gra- dually in activity, and are carried on with increasing difficulty, from the centre towards the extremities anil surface, and that these die first from whatever cause mortification proceeds. profit to the trunk, as well as on many other accounts, amputation will mostly be found preferable to resection. Necrosis.—Happily, what we have said of caries does not apply to this disease. It is only the very worst cases of necrosis that re- quire amputation, since by skilful local treat- ment and good management of the health, if there be adequate strength of constitution, and the periosteum and surrounding parts are sufficiently sound to provide a new bone, the sequestrum will become detached, and may be extracted with safety. But it does sometimes happen, when the disease is very extensive, and situated in the midst of very voluminous and important soft parts, through which the sequestrum cannot be attacked, that the abun- dance of suppuration would cause death, un- less amputation were performed. A patient at the Hotel Dieu, w'hose body I examined, died from this cause. The femur, in its three inferior fourths, was reduced to a sequestrum, and shut up in a new bone, out of which na- ture had endeavoured to let it escape by spontaneous perforations. Unfortunately, these holes wrere situated in the vicinity of the crural and popliteal vessels. Had they been in the anterior or the outer region of the bone, the nature and extent of the disease might have been correctly ascertained, and the patient’s life might have been saved by the ex- traction of the sequestrum; or had this been found impracticable, by amputation of the limb. The absence of a correct diagnosis as to the precise local circumstances of the disease cost the patient his life. White swellings.—Diseases of the joints, taken in reasonable time and treated methodi- cally, may generally be cured without ampu- tation, unless the bones have arrived at that state of caries which wre have already pointed out as requiring the operation. This happy result belongs more particularly to modern practice, and is to be attributed to our better knowledge of the morbid changes to which the constituent parts of the joints are liable, and of the order in which they occur. At the present day, a vast number of limbs hav- ing their joints diseased are spared, which, formerly, would have been amputated. Great credit is due to those practitioners, who, by patient perseverance in the employment of means founded upon pathological knowledge, first obtained a sufficient number of cases to make an impression on the profession, and caused them to pause and employ these mea- sures with that patience, energy, and assiduity which the expectation of a successful issue alwrays inspires, before they resorted to am- putation. The delay their employment oc- casions is by no means dangerous or unfavour- able to the success of the operation, which, should it become necessary, will be found less likely to fail after the disease has become very chronic, and made the pulse feeble, than at an earlier period. Indeed, it is the duty of the surgeon to w'ait and continue to employ such measures, until the patient’s general