CANCER, TREATMENT OF. 642 cording to M. Begin, which more frequently realize the hopes of the practitioner. General and local antiphlogistic treatment with emol- lient or narcotic local applications, and, if prac- ticable, compression, are enforced at the same time. Animal charcoal in doses of half a grain, by degrees increased to four grains, twice daily, has been spoken highly of by Weise1. His favourable announcements have not been con- firmed. Electricity and galvanism have been tried in consequence of an account published by Dr. Easton respecting a lady who having been struck with lightning found herself gradually freed from a scirrhous tumour which had re- sisted a variety of modes of treatment. Experi- ments were made with these agents by Brisbane and Walther among others, but not with results justifying any confidence in their efficacy. External remedies.—The idea of diminish- ing the size of cancerous growths by repeated leeching is of very early date. Valsalva ener- getically lauded this method of treatment, and Fearon, persuaded of the inflammatory nature of the disease, trusted to it almost wholly; venesection being substituted when an inter- nal organ suffered. Modern experience has established the degree of utility of local ab- straction of blood. In the earliest stages of diseased induration the application of leeches is strongly advisable ; even as a guide to the diagnosis of tumours of doubtful character it is useful. The progress of growths of undoubtedly carcinomatous nature may be thus retarded, and incidental inflammatory symptoms in the adjoining tissues successfully combated ; but beyond this, capillary depletion has no power. The number of leeches applied must be regu- lated by the size of the tumour ; it should vary between twelve and six ; a smaller number causes an afflux of fluids to the part without emptying the vessels sufficiently. When the tumour is adherent to the skin there is danger in continuing this practice, as the bites have frequently been known to pass into persistent ulcerations. M. Begin, whose confidence in the powers of local depletion would be more encouraging were it not for his belief in the inflammatory nature of the disease, applies leeches even to ulcerated surfaces. As an effectual method of lowering the nutrition of cancerous parts, the ligature of the arteries, or rather chief artery, leading to them, was advised by Maunoir2. Applied by this practitioner more especially to sarco- cele, it had, at an earlier period (Lucas in 1814), been made trial of in this country in cancer of other parts, but not with very encouraging results3. It is manifest, in truth, that unless in situations receiving their blood from a single source, the anastomatic supplies must soon undo what has been done by the 1 Ueber die Zuruckbildnng der Scirrhen und Poly- pen : Leipzig; 1829. 3 Nouv. Metl'.ode de traiter le Sarcocele, 1820. 3 A. Cooper, Essays, part i. p. 184; 1818. operation. Yet Dupuytren, believing that erectile tissue always exists in smaller or larger proportion in encephaloid tumours, practised iigature of the principal artery, when he con- ceived the cancerous matter had a very small share in the composition of the foreign growth. M. Magendie' states that he tied the carotid with the effect of permanently stopping the growth of an enormous scirrho-encephaloid tumour on the side of the head and face, which had twice been reproduced after partial abla- tion. M. Jobert has recently modified this method, adding to the ligature of the principal vessels that of the nervous filaments connected with the cancer. He has thus cured, he in- forms us, four ulcerated cancers of the lips, and one of the tongue2. Methodic conipression of carcinomatous tu- mours, introduced and declared to be singu- larly efficacious by Young, subsequently re- jected by the profession, from the unfavour- able estimate formed of it at the Middlesex Hospital3, has of late years been experimented on a very large scale by M. Recamier. The more important part of his results is as fol- lows : “ Of one hundred patients, sixteen ap- peared to be incurable, and underwent only a palliative treatment: thirty were completely cured by compression alone, and twenty-one derived considerable benefit from it: fifteen were radically cured by extirpation alone, or chiefly by extirpation and pressure combined, and six by compression and cauterisation : in the twelve remaining cases the disease re- sisted all the means employed.” The com- pression should at first be exceedingly gentle, and have the effect simply of supporting the tumour in close apposition with the subjacent parts. In proportion as the morbid mass be- comes habituated to its action, the pressure is increased and gradually rendered exceedingly powerful. The greater the tendency to irri- tation in the growth itself, and in the sur- rounding tissues, the more important is it to attend to this precaution. M. R. generally employs perfectly smooth disks of agaric, laid over each other, and retained in situ by a roller, as the compressing materials. M. Begin sometimes substitutes a laminated plate of lead, modelled to the tumour, and surmounted with a pyramid of graduated compresses. This application (which is far from a novel one) frequently becomes painfid, and cannot be en- dured. M. R. recommends a renewal of the apparatus every day, or every second day : M. Begin thinks it better to change only when the bandages grow loose, and prefers, in consequence of this view, an elastic corset, capable of accommodating itself to the de- creasing size of the part, as the compressing ■ agent, wherever circumstances admit of its use. The treatment should be continued for a considerable time after the resolution of a tumour. ’ Phen. Physiques de la Vie, t. i. p. 119. 5 Brit. & For. Med. Rev. vol. ix. p. 2(40; 1849. 3 C. Hell, Surp. Ohs. vol. i. p. 4 ; 181(i.