BRONCHOTOMY. r>2:y> and the tube elongated, and at that moment the knife should be passed into the trachea, | with its back to the sternum, and three or four of the rings divided by carrying the knife upwards in the median line. This may be all I that is so far necessary; but if it be wished to remove a portion of the tube, a small opening only should be made, to admit a hook or for- ceps to seize the part, which may then be cut out. Great alarm, anxiety, and distressing sensation follow immediately on the unnatural ! passage of air into the trachea, but it soon I subsides, and the operation may then be rea- dily completed, according to the different l cases for which it has been performed. The occurrence of haemorrhage is the prin- cipal danger to be apprehended during the operation, but this will almost always be pre- vented by proceeding in the cautious manner directed. If, however, it should occur from the division of any considerable vein, the vessel should be tied. If it be an oozing, the nitrate of silver, strong solution of alum, or tinct. ferri murias P. L. may be applied. If the bleeding occur in a very urgent case, the patient’s chin should be pressed upwards, but the body bent a little downwards and for- wards, so as to obviate as much as possible the drawing or sinking of blood into the trachea, while a small portion of the tube is removed, and a canula of corresponding size instantly inserted, or a trocar might be introduced, but with great caution : probably the inge- nious jointed instrument recommended by Mr. Wood, would be very applicable under these circumstances. Richter, and Mr. B. Bell have both described instruments to an- swer the same purpose. They consist of a lancet blade adapted to a canula : the trachea is to be opened writh the lancet, the instrument introduced, the lancet withdrawn, and the canula fixed. Such effects are sometimes produced by the entrance of blood into the trachea, that immediate suffocatipn appears inevitable. In such a case Roux sucked out the blood, and restored the patient. His example should be followed ; and as Louis remarks, in commenting on a somewhat simi- lar case in Van Swieten’s commentaries, the patient’s head should be turned downward, so as to keep the blood from flowing backward into the trachea. Vigili adopted this sugges- tion, and with complete success. If the operation be performed for the re- moval of a foreign body, the surgeon should be well provided with forceps, variously bent, and of different lengths ; some to open late- rally, others vertically, and their points formed differently to adapt them to substances of va- rious forms. He should also have one or two long probes. Mr. Liston thinks a long slit in the trachea quite sufficient to answer every purpose : but Mr. I’orter considers that, provided the for- ceps require to be used, a large portion should be removed from the front of the tube, in order to allow the hinge of the for- ceps to play with freedom. The annexed sketch is from a pair of for- ceps w ith which Mr. Key removed a sixpence from the bronchus of a boy. He had them made for the express purpose, and assures me that they answered extremely well. As occurred in some of Pelletan’s cases, the foreign body is often expelled by a gush of air, the instant the tra- chea is opened, and this has been strikingly ex- emplified in Mr. Por- ter’s experiments on a dog. A foreign body was introduced again and again, and as in- stantly expelled through the w'ound. If this for- tunate circumstance do not occur, the probe should be introduced, to discover the exact situation of the offend- ing substance. It may be loose in the trachea, but its exit prevented by its size or position ; if so, it may be laid hold of with the for- ceps, or removed with a scoop, or bent probe. If fixed in the larynx, impacted in its ventri- cles, or entangled in the rima glottidis, the for- ceps must be carefully introduced, and the body gently and cautiously extracted. More diffi- culty must be expected if it be lodged in one of the bronchi. The distance should be esti- mated wffth a probe, forceps selected accor- dingly, the body seized and removed with the least possible force. After this the edges of the wound may be approximated, and a few days is generally sufficient to effect their adhesion. If the operation be performed in a case of croup, it must not be forgotten that the false membrane is often in a tubular form, lax, and easily separable from the mucous membrane, so that its collapse from the atmospheric pressure might produce dangerous conse- quences. This being known, it may of course be guarded against by an ordinary exercise of caution. In these cases some discussion has arisen with regard to the propriety of re- moving a portion of the tracnea, and on the eligibility of the canula. Mr. Liston strongly objects to the removal of a portion of the tube. He says it is a difficult matter, does not answer the purpose long, and is apt to be followed after the healing of the wound by an inconvenient and dangerous narrowing of the Fig. 161.