ERYSIPELAS. 147 stance is most frequent and significant. I have often seen M. Chomel foretel the impend- ing erysipelas of this region before either red- ness, pain, or tension existed. There is hardly any risk of having our prediction belied when shiverings, followed by fever, are accompa- nied with pain and swelling of the subcu- taneous lymphatic ganglia under the jaw, pro- vided there is no angina or other affection to explain the local and general symptoms. Sometimes a sensation of heat, numbness, tension, or rigidity, with a slight blush of the part, more unequivocally denotes the invasion and seat of the affection. Erysipelas once established, is characterized by local and general symptoms, the exposition of which being here applied to erysipelas in general, necessarily involves the assemblage of incongruous elements ; but this discre- pancy will disappear in treating of the various forms of the disease, when care will be taken to assign to each its appropriate and peculiar characters. Local symptoms.—Redness is the most ap- parent one : it generally begins by a small patch, and gradually extends over a more con- siderable and irregularly formed surface ; obscure at first, it soon becomes more appa- rent ; its tint varies from the light rose to a deep scarlet or even violet colour, and it is frequently suffused with a yellowish tinge, rubor subflavcscens; it almost always disap- pears by pressure, and returns when the pres- sure is removed. The exceptional cases are attributed by Sanson to the predominance of the affection of the venous over that of the arterial capillaries '. Its limits are generally ill defined, especially at the beginning and decline of the disease, as if the skin in the precincts of the affection was in an interme- diate disposition between the healthy and morbid states. Tumefaction accompanies the redness, and it is more considerable than is sometimes ad- mitted. The error is occasioned by the gra- dual and almost insensible transition often effected from the unhealthy to the healthy skin. But the central parts will be always found swollen, without, however, presenting the acuminated summit of the furuncle, or the rounded relief of the phlegmon. The limits of the eruption will be often less vaguely de- termined by the touch than by the eye. The swelling is always considerable in parts fur- nished with a subcutaneous lax cellular tissue, such as the eyelids, scrotum, prepuce and pu- denda, and also in the phlegmonous form when the disease has invaded the subjacent cellular texture. The erysipelatous surface often presents a shining aspect, and is tense and resisting, or soft and doughy to the touch : it is generally smooth, but at its decline be- comes rough and corrugated. It sometimes presents phlyctaenae, varying in number and size, and which, no doubt, made Willan 3 class 1 Noiivcaux Elements de Pathologie, t. i. 2 Pract. Treat, on Cutan. Diseases. the disease in the genus bulla. The serum contained in them is generally limpid ; but it is sometimes of a rusty colour, and sometimes so viscid that it forms scabs like those of im- petigo larvalis >. A dry acrid heat is at the same time felt in the part, and this sensation is not solely in the feelings of the patient, as thermometrical experiments have given an increase of tem- perature of three or four degrees of the cen- tigrade themometer 1 2. Dr. Kuhn says with Rust that true erysipelas is accompanied with a certain change in the animal electricity, which is perceptible to the touch, producing upon the hand a kind of prickling sensa- tion 3, which I have often in vain tried to perceive. Pain is the fourth local character of erysi- pelas. It is generally of a pruriginous tensive nature, sometimes of a stinging burning kind ; but never pulsatile as in phlegmon, nor so in- tense and intolerable as in eczema. In short it is not the intenseness of the pain, but the nature of the disease that causes the suffering as well as danger of the patient. The slightest contact however exasperates it, and some- times the motion of the parts becomes ex- ceedingly painful, and even movement may be rendered impossible. With regard to the cutaneous exhalation, it is as impossible to doubt of its alteration, as it is to determine in what it consists. General symptoms arise from disturbance of the various internal, encephalic, thoracic, or abdominal organs. Erysipelas of the body or extremities is frequently unaccompanied with cerebral disturbance, except in the phlegmon- ous form, while in the slightest form of ery- sipelas of the head, meningeal symptoms, ce- phalalgia, physical and moral inaptitude, ex- aggerated susceptibility of vision and of hear- ing, anxiety, insomnia or sleep disturbed with distressing dreams, delirium, stupor, convul- sive movements, are generally observable to a greater or less extent. Lesions of the re- spiratory organs should be considered as mere epiphenomena or complications ; but dis- turbance of the circulation, fever, exists in the great majority of cases. It is not, however, an indispensable element of the disease, and there can be even a considerable extent of erysipelas without any febrile disturbance4; nor is the violence of the fever and general disturbance always in proportion with the ex- tent of the erysipelas, which evidently implies that there is something in the disease besides the eruption. With respect to the digestive organs, we frequently find that assemblage of symptoms, denominated by the French school embarras gastrique, consisting of a foul tongue, generally loaded with a whitish mucus, a clammy taste of the mouth, a total aversion from food with little thirst, and a desire for acidulated drinks,a fulness, tension, 1 Tissot. Op. cit- 2 Lcpcllctier. Op. cit. 3 Gazette Med. annee 1833. * Gazette Med. annee 1831. L 2