154 ERYSIPELAS. which not a trace of inflammation was found in the brain or its connexions *, and Dr. Ma- rotte has also published a case of the kind 1 2. Consecutive gangrene of the integument, so common in phlegmonous erysipelas of the extremities, is a very rare occurrence in that of the scalp. Dupuytren, to whom we are indebted for the explanation of this fact, had seen but one instance of it in his extensive practice. The distribution of the nutritive vessels running in the same plane as the scalp itself, and in some sort identified with its tissue, as well as the seat of the affection, which, as the same author has shown, exists between the occipito-frontal aponeurosis and the peri- osteum, is the easy explanation of this cir- cumstance. It is easily understood how this disposition, in diminishing the dangers of the mortification of the integument, increases those of strangulation ; there are less super- ficial accidents, but more of a deep seated nature: the subaponeurotic cellular tissue be- comes mortified, a fetid suppuration burrows in the direction it finds least resistance, and if art does not speedily intervene and give issue to the detritus, the periosteum and bones soon participate in the destruction. I have notes of a case, taken in the clinical wards of Du- puytren, of a robust young man, from whom this celebrated professor extracted at various intervals from five to six square inches of the external table and somewhat less of the in- ternal one ; so that this man’s brain was pro- tected in a great extent by the meningeal and integumentary coverings alone. Erysipelas of the face is not in itself a grievous affection. The danger consists in the likelihood of its extending ; and this is to be apprehended when the febrile action is intense and the redness and swelling are con- siderable. A red spot generally appears on the nose or one of the cheeks, more frequently on the right side, and from thence irradiates and may extend in a few days over the entire face and even the scalp. The head some- times becomes monstrous, and the face hor- ridly disfigured ; tears exude from the closed eyelids, the nostrils become dry and obstruct- ed, the lips are enormously thickened and everted, and an abundant saliva flows from the gaping mouth which may be rendered in- capable of articulating the patient’s wants. However, notwithstanding the alarming vio- lence of the general and local symptoms the termination is so generally favourable, that Louis’ extensive experience has led him to profess that this affection is never fatal but in cases of antecedent ill health, or of grievous complications 3. Complications sometimes re- sult from the extension of the inflammation to the contiguous mucous surfaces, causing otitis, stomatitis, laryngitis, which last may be accompanied with a diphtheritic exuda- 1 Op. cit. 2 Joum. Universal ct Hebdomad de Med. ct do Chirurg. 1831. t. iv. 3 Op. cit. tion producing all the symptoms and danger of croup. Erysipelas of the Extremities is most fre- quently limited to the fore arms and legs, and is often produced by traumatic causes, contusions, punctures, lacerations, &c. It may often be prevented by anticipating by in- cisions the strangulation sometimes produced by these wounds. It frequently invests the phlegmonous form which in the lower extre- mities constantly terminates, according to Dupuytren, in suppuration. These extremi- ties are the most common seat of the cede- matous form of erysipelas. Seated on the joints the inflammation may extend to the adjoining synovial membranes. It is in this variety that the complications of phlebitis and angeioleucitis have been most frequently observed. Erysipelas of the Trunk.—The phlegmonous inflammation of the breasts in puerperal con- ditions have been often improperly referred to erysipelas L Erysipelas of the umbilical region belongs particularly to infancy, and will find its place in treating of this variety. Erysipelas of the scrotum and penis generally appertains to the other extreme of life. It always assumes the cedematous form, and the tumefaction is sometimes enormous, tripling the size of the parts, producing symptomatic phymosis, and rendering the excretion of the urine impossible or very difficult. Gangrene frequently takes place in the scrotum, begin- ning on the part that leans upon the bed and supports the weight of the parts. Erysipelas of the pudenda assumes also the cedematous character, and in infancy frequently termi- nates in gangrene. “ Erysipelas of the in- guinal region is sometimes symptomatic of the infiltration of fecal matter into the cellular tissue consecutive of intestinal perforation. In this case the cellular tissue is crepitating and emphysematous V’ Section IV. Erratic Erysipelas, charac- terized by the mutability of its symptoms and the facility and promptitude of its displace- ment, even to considerable distances. It is always simple as to its seat, seeming merely to skin the surface it attacks. It is easy to comprehend that phlegmonous erysipelas once established is not susceptible of this mobility. However, there is a kind of erratic diffuse phlegmon, signalized by Rayer, and a case of which recently came under my own observa- tion : a succession of suppurative phlegmon- ous erysipelas appears on totally distinct parts of the perophery : it only takes place in con- stitutions deteriorated and exhausted by pro- tracted illness. The etiology of erratic ery- sipelas is involved in complete obscurity. Ob- servation has show'n it to be frequently con- joined with the rheumatic diathesis and the typhoid state, and it is possible that the same special causes which engender these may also contribute to produce it. Considered solely 1 Chomcl, Op. cit. 2 Itayer, Op. cit.