780 CLUB-FOOT. dent derangement in the development of the nervous system, such as those denominated hemicephalous and acephalous, or affected with spina bifida, and those born before the expira- tion of the natural period of utero-gestation, are particularly obnoxious to this deformity of the feet. The occurrence of the perfectly analogous deformity of the hands which takes place prior to birth, denominated club-hand, in which the flexors and pronators (analogous to the so-called extensors and adductors of the foot) are likewise contracted, corroborates the opinion that congenital club-foot depends on spasmodic muscular contraction. In the in- stances which I have examined of congenital deformity of the hand (club-hand), both in museums and in the living subject, the feet were also affected with talipes, proving the operation of a common cause.” We may assume it, therefore, as fairly esta- blished, that genuine club-foot, in all its varie- ties, is produced by irregular action of certain muscles, which irregular action consists in a disturbance of the balance existing naturally between the antagonising systems, the flexors and extensors, the adductors, and abductors of the foot; that this disturbance may occur in two ways: one system of muscles may be altogether deprived of nervous influence—may be paralysed, in short, and incapable of counter- balancing their antagonists in a state of ordinary action ; or, retaining their ordinary power, the same set of muscles may be overcome by their antagonists preternaturally excited—in a state of extraordinary or spasmodic action; and, finally, that the occasional co-existence with congenital talipes of congenital club-hand1, squinting, stammering, and spasmodic contrac- tions throughout the muscular system, and the occurrence of club-foot as a consequence of convulsions during dentition, of fever, measles, croup, &c. in infants, of apoplexy,—or even of hysteria, in adults,—all indicate an origin de- pendent upon imperfect development or lesion, upon changes either of structure or function in the cerebro-spinal system, with scarcely less certainty than that with which many in- stances of acquired club-foot may be traced to direct local injury or irritation of a particular nerve. II. Morbid or abnormal changes in the state of the limb in Talipes. These changes are by no means uniform ; they are modified by the variety of the de- formity, and by a multitude of other circum- stances. The follow ing details are an enumera- tion of those abnormal deviations which have been most commonly noted : The entire limb generally presents an atrophied appearance; its temperature is often below the natural standard, and more or less oedema exists ; in short, the vital powers of the limb are altoge- ther diminished. 1 See tlie case figured by Cruveilhier, Anat. Path, liv. ii. pi. 2. Morbid changes of the Bones.—The astra- galus certainly exhibits the greatest deviation from its natural condition, but this rarely amounts to a change of form. It is, in general, a diminution of volume arising probably from the pressure to which certain parts of it have been submitted ; and an alteration of surface, traceable to the change of position its articular facets have undergone, relatively with the other tarsal bones, and with the articular arch formed by the extremities of the tibia and fibula. In fig. 171, it is manifest, that this arch Fig. 171. Fig. 171. Disposition of the bones in pes equinus. or trochlea embraces an entirely new articular surface of the astragalus, the original convex tibial facet being almost entirely denuded of its cartilage, and roughened. This is more or less the case in every variety of club-foot, the new facet being removed to a greater or less distance from its original site, according to the degree of flexion, extension, or rotation that the astragalus has been subjected to. The articular surface of the tibio-fibular troch- lea is circumscribed and varied to a corres- ponding extent. The head of the astragalus is generally much reduced in volume, its sca- phoidean articular facet much contracted in area, and its upper margin forms a prominent tuberosity on the dorsum pedis. The os scap- hoidcs is also somewhat diminished in volume, but not altered in shape. Its inner margin occasionally acquires, in varus, an articular connexion with the internal malleolus, to which it becomes united by ligament. The calcaneuin is seldom fully developed ; its cu- boidean articular facet is contracted in area ; and in varus of long existence, an external tuberosity is formed at the point upon which the patient treads. The rest of the tarsal bones preserve their natural characters. The ligaments undergo changes correspond- ing with the altered position of the bones j but, according to Cruveilhier, their relaxation and contracture is not so extreme as was stated by Scarpa. In varus, the deltoid liga- ment of the ankle-joint becomes shortened, and a new band of fibres, or accidental liga-