406 ARTICULATIONS. on arthritis. Boyer, the most minute and laborious of systematic writers, speaks only of foreign bodies, hydrops articuli, white or fun- gous swellings of' joints, and ankylosis ; and the classifications adopted by Delpech and other eminent surgeons are equally vague and indiscriminate. Even within the last few years, Mr. Liston, the author of a systematic work on surgery, has taught that it is a waste of time to attempt to distinguish between primary diseases of cartilage and of synovial membrane. “ Such knowledge,” he says, “ is of no practical utility.” That much yet re- mains to be done is indisputable, but we have the satisfaction of knowing that a great ad- vance has been made, and of appreciating some of the deficiencies which still exist. I proceed to indicate the basis on which the division adopted in the present work will rest. A correct and useful classification of the diseases to which any organ is liable, can be founded solely on a careful connection of the symptoms observed during life, and the order of their occurrence, with the appearances re- vealed to us by post-mortem examination. A perfect pathology would not only point out the structure in which disease had commenced, but would also determine the exact nature of the process which had been instituted. Hitherto pathologists have mainly directed their efi'orts towards the accomplishment of the former of these two objects, and rapid advances have been made in the localization of disease, while but little has been done in the way of inves- tigating the various processes by which changes have been induced. There can be little doubt that under the broad term inflammation, which is applied indiscriminately to every organ, and almost to every abnormal state, we are in- cluding, not merely those modifications of morbid action which arise from structural pe- culiarity, but also various separate and distinct diseases. An illustration of these remarks may be found in the pathology of chest affec- tions. The day has not long gone by, when the diseases of every structure connected with respiration were classed under the general head of inflammation of the lungs. We have now advanced, by the aid of a localizing patho- logy, to the recognition of pleuritic, pneu- monic, and bronchitic inflammations. Other advances in the same direction may be made, by determining the exact tissue which be- comes first affected in these several structures : but when this is done, there will still remain the questions, Is inflammation the sole dis- ease ? Is a plcuritis, which leaves behind it a clear serous fluid, or a muddy collection of pus, the same disease with a pleuritis which deposits a semi-solid, highly organizable lymph, rapidly becoming attached to the adjacent parts, and forming a fine web of cellular ad- hesions ? Is a bronchitis, which is attended with the expectoration of a fibrinous tissue, t aking the form of the bronchial ramifications, the same disease with a bronchitis which gives rise to purulent sputa scarcely distinguishable from pus ? Is a pneumonia which leaves the lung thoroughly and permanently consolidated by a plastic lymph which becomes a part of the frame, in truth the same disease with a pneumonia which pours into the pulmonary tissue masses of a white, inorganizable product, rapidly softening down, and forming large purulent collections? These are questions to which subsequent researches may furnish more satisfactory answers than can now be given. It may be safely affirmed, that at present, with the slight and obvious excep- tions of external injuries, and heterologue deposits, we know of few abnormal states which are not referred, directly or remotely, to inflammation. Even syphilis, gonorrhoea, and struma, are only specific inflammations. Attempts have indeed been made to intro- duce a process termed irritation, as something distinct from inflammation, but the medical world is so completely divided as to the mean- ing which is to be attached to the word, that for all practical purposes it is as yet unavaila- ble. There being therefore no satisfactory dis- tinction between the processes by which mor- bid actions are carried on, the only sure basis which, in the present state of our knowledge, can be assumed in attempting to classify the diseases of articulations, is that furnished by the localizing pathology to which I have al- ready alluded—the basis of tissue. Every living tissue is susceptible of morbid changes. Hence, in classifying the diseases of an organ, our first inquiry must be, into the tissues— whether common or peculiar—of which it is composed. I have already specified the tis- sues which enter into the composition of joints to be bone, fibro-cartilage, ligament, synovial membrane and cartilage, and 1 now proceed to point out the diseases of which each of these tissues is the primary scat, and to show how, in this manner, all the idiopathic diseases of articulations may be rationally com- prehended. 1. Hone.—The portions of bone entering into the composition of a joint, consist of a mass of reticulated structure, endowed with a higher degree of organization than the shaft of the organ, and covered on the articular surface by a delicate layer of dense bone, to which the cartilage or fibro-cartilage is firmly attached. In this situation the bone is gene- rally expanded, so as to form a protuberance, readily perceptible beneath the integuments ; and the exposure to the influence of external causes which thence arises, combines with the high organization of the tissue to make dis- ease a frequent occurrence. We find in it exemplifications of all the diseases to which bone is liable. Sometimes it becomes the sub- ject of necrosis. This is not a very common occurrence, but I have seen a case in which a partial necrosis having taken place, one ex- tremity of the dead bone protruded into the cavity of the articulation through an opening formed in the articular surface. More fre- quently it is the subject of inflammation, end- ing either in the formation of abscess within