800 COLLYRIUM. gently drawn down and rubbed over the eye- ball with the finger for a minute or two, in order to diffuse the salve, now melted by the heat of the eye, between the eyelids and eye- ball and consequently all over the conjunctiva. If the palpebral conjunctiva be the part on which the salve is principally to exert its action, the application may be limited to it, in which case the pain is less severe than in the former. Having everted the eyelids, the ex- posed conjunctival surface is to be rubbed with the salve either by means of a hair-pencil or the point of the finger. Salves are sometimes applied to the lacry- mal passages by smearing the meshes, catgut- strings, &c. which are introduced into the nasal duct, whether from the nose or through an external opening into the lacrymal sac. In regard to the application of a strong salve to the eye it is necessary here to give a cau- tion, viz. not to insert it in a lump within the lower eyelid and leave it there. I have seen the conjunctiva of the inferior palpebral sinus in a sloughy state from a lump of nitrate of silver ointment having been put in, and no care taken to diffuse it by rubbing on the eye- lid. In the case of ointment inserted under the upper eyelid, the natural motions of the part will make up in some degree for the neglect of the surgeon. Examples. Ijh—Oxid. hydrarg. rubri bene laevigat. gr. iii. vj.—xv. Axungite praeparat. 3ij. Misce accuratissiine: ft. unguentum oph- thalmicum. The two weaker forms are used for anoint- ing the edges of the eyelids, and may be en- trusted to the patient. The stronger form should be applied only by the surgeon himself. Applied to the whole conjunctival surface I have found it a very efficient remedy in various inflammations of the conjunctiva, and ulcers, specks, &c. of the cornea. It is less severe in its operation than the nitrate of silver ointment. The citrine ointment of the pharmacopoeias, diluted with three or more parts of lard and oil, is a useful application to the edges of the eyelids. Ijb—Argent, nitrat. gr. ij—x Unguent, cetacei 3j. Prius laevigetur bene nitras; dein misceatur accuratissime cum unguento. This, with the addition of liq. plumb, sub- acet., is the black ointment of Mr. Guthrie, which has been used with so much success not only in chronic, but also in cutting short acute inflammations of the conjunctiva, on the principle “ of exciting an action greater and of a different nature to that already existing in the part.” The following is what is known by the name of Janin’s ointment for the eyes. Ijc—Prsecipitat. alb. gr. xv. Tutiae praeparat. Boli armen. ppt. aa 3ft. Adip. suilli 3i—3ij. M. exactissime : ft. ungt. ophthalmicum. It is occasionally required to touch fungo- sities of the conjunctiva, ulcers of the cornea, prolapsus of the iris, partial staphyloma, with very active substances, such as nitrate of silver in substance, butter of antimony, or caustic potass. In this case the eyelids must be held fully apart, and, after the application, which ought to be carefully confined to the particular spot, some mild fluid is to be dropped in ; sweet oil, by not dissolving the substances employed, prevents their spreading over the neighbouring parts, and is, therefore, the best adapted for the purpose. Eye-powders or Dry Collyria.—Pulveres ophthalmici vel collyria sicca ; Fr. Poudrcs pour insufflation; Ger. Augcnpulver.—The applica- tion of stimulating powders to the eye is much less frequent now than formerly. They have been principally used against specks of the cornea. The late Baron Dupuytren and Dr. Fricke of Hamburg, have strongly recom- mended insufflations of calomel, in the puro- mucous ophthalmias. The powder, reduced to the greatest im- palpability, pulvis subtilissimus, is blown into the eye through a quill, or applied by means of a moist hair pencil. The surgeon should alw ays do the operation himself. Refined sugar or sugar-candy reduced to a very subtle powder has been principally used either alone or as an excipient for, and diluent of, other substances. Examples. Ijt—Sacch. purif. Oxid. zinci aa pp. aeq. Misce, et tere ut fiat pulvis subtilissimus. Ijb—Oxyd. hydrarg. rubri gr. x. Sacch. purif. 5j. Misce, et tere, &c. Ijh—Calomelanos Sacch. purif. aa pp. aeq. Misce, et tere, &c. To this one-third of a part of powdered opium may be added. ty,—Aluminis usti Sulphat. zinci Boracis aa 9j. Sacch. Alb. 9ij. Misce, et tere ut fiat pulv. subtiliss. The proportions above given may be varied according to circumstances. Medicated bags, sacculi medicati; Fr. sachets. Ger. Krauterkisschen.—Bags of aro- matic herbs, so much used in Germany, act principally by the exhalations they give out. They also serve to keep up dry warmth'. The bags are made of coarse lawn or mus- lin, washed and rubbed soft. Being lightly filled, the bag is scwred close, and then quilted at different places, so as to keep the materials equally spread, and prevent them from sinking down. For the eyes, the bags must be made as light as possible; not 1 M. Mayor, of Lausanne, lias lately recommended the application of carded cotton over the eyes, in cer- tain ophthalmias.