290 ANGEIOLEUCITIS. glions. If the contrary should take place, it only so happens in consequence of the erysi- pelas being complicated with adenitis, or an- geioleucitis, The inflammation in this case seems to proceed from the epiderm towards the deep-seated layers of the skin, and is not manifested in scattered patches. The subja- cent swelling is equal, and simply subcuta- neous, being neither deep-seated nor distri- buted in masses or cores. It extends by con- tinuity of tissue, instead of bounding, as it were, from point to point, over different re- gions. The skin, and not the layer beneath it, is its primitive and specific seat. Its pro- gress is much more rapid: the formidable symptoms, such as delirium, and dryness of the tongue, often appearing as early as the fourth or fifth day. It rarely terminates in suppuration or induration, and resolution takes place from the third to the eighth day. When death occurs, it can scarcely ever be attri- buted to the local mischief. Topical applica- tions have little, if any influence in arresting its course; neither leeches, nor compression have any effect; and the same may be said of poultices, emollient fomentations, and mercu- rial inunction. Those who attribute great virtue to mercury are altogether in error, as the pure axunge alone is just as efficacious, and it can only have been through an imper- fect observation of the facts, that the error could have obtained credit. All these appli- cations, together with blisters, which, on the contrary, will be found useful at a certain stage of angeioleucitis, are in this form of in- flammation quite useless. In erysipelas, the surface of the epiderm seems as if thickened, and presents small vesicles, and sometimes even phlyctenae of a certain size. It has a yellowish rosy hue, terminating abruptly at the limits of the disease, by an elevated and festooned edge ; half a line beyond which, the slightest alteration of colour in either the skin or epiderm cannot be discerned, and it would seem as if the inflammation was shed over the derm like a layer of milk or oil. We see nothing of this kind in angeioleucitis,—the redness of which is bright or pale, or inclined to violet; it has no defined limit, but disap- pears insensibly, in such a manner, that it would be impossible to fix the line that sepa- rates the disease from the unaffected tissues. The skin may be thickened and elevated, but in general it is not covered, either with vesi- cles or phlyctenes at the commencement; nor does it present a surface in relief, as if it had been overlaid with another layer. If we now pass from simple erysipelas to the phlegmonous erysipelas, differences less strongly marked, it is true, but still sufficiently obvious, will be quickly discovered. At the outset, most commonly, the general symptoms are absent; the inflammation spreads gradu- ally, leaving none of the parts unattacked through which it passes. It does not appear under the form of scattered patches, or indu- rated cores ; neither is there any appearance of red or livid bands. The ganglions are not engorged, nor does it seem to be developed more along the trunks of the lymphatics, than elsewhere, although, like angeioleucitis, it ap- pears to spread rather from the deep-seated tissues towards the surface, than from the epiderm towards the fasciae. Suppuration takes place very rapidly, the collection being large and widely diffused, and the pus greyish and thin. The cellular tissue is extensively destroyed, and the integuments are so rapidly thinned as to be in danger of perishing also. If the inflammation has not attacked from the beginning a considerable extent of surface, the febrile reaction will be, in general, trifling before the pus is formed. The general symptoms are not of a nature to excite any serious alarm, till after the second period. We then have symptoms of infection, but which tend rather to the ady- namic than to the ataxic character. The skin becomes dull, soiled, and earthy; the tongue blackens, and the delirium is of a calmer kind. If the attack be recent, and still limi- ted to a small space, general bleeding, and emollients, properly employed, will often bring on resolution. The application of cold water will also stop it during the first two or three days. Compression, properly made, is regarded as the grand remedy, so long as suppuration has not taken place. Mercurial inunction will not arrest its progress. When we cannot insist on compression, multiplied incisions stop it at once ; as if by enchant- ment. Blisters do not abridge its duration, unless they be of enormous size, and are only calculated to assist in circumscribing certain purulent collections. We see, then, that phlegmonous erysipelas is a disease essentially distinct from angeioleucitis. It must, above all, be not forgotten, that the one often com- plicates the other; and it is for this reason that they have been, and are still, daily con- founded in practice. A most remarkable in- stance of this occurred in my own wards, in the months of March, April, and May, 1837 : almost all the patients that had been affected with angeioleucitis were soon after attacked with erysipelas, strictly so called, or with phlegmonous erysipelas; and, in like manner, those who were first attacked with erysipelas, soon presented it complicated with angeioleu- citis. But these combinations by no means prevent our singling out the special characters and symptoms that belong to each of these diseases, and that distinguish them from the compound inflammation. As to the common phlegmon, its aspect is so well defined, that if we only examine with a little attention we cannot be deceived. Its circumscribed form, its hardness at the very beginning, the throbbing pain, and heat, the elevation which it tends to present towards the skin, the simplicity and regularity of its progress, the absence of streaks, of scattered patches, of engorged and painful ganglions distinguish it so clearly from angeioleucitis that there is no room for mistake in this re- spect.