FARCY. 182 able circumstance, which also occurs in the solidipedes, and this is, that it is not accom- panied by the cutaneous pustular eruption, nor the gangrenous bullae observed in acute farcy. In a certain number of cases of chronic farcy, the inflammation produced by the wound, and the inoculation of the glanderous or farcinous matter, is limited to the arm on which one of the fingers has been punctured. Some days after, inflammation of the lympha- tic vessels, and a kind of erysipelatous phlegmon arise, and extend progressively from below upwards, and red lines are almost always ob- served ascending to the arm-pit, under the skin, subcutaneous abscesses form, and cords produced by the engorgement of the lympha- tic vessels are developed in the same manner as in the angeioleucitis, which occurs in medi- cal students from dissection wounds. Several of these cases of chronic farcy, treated in this first period, have terminated in a cure, after several months of suffering ; a larger number have terminated fatally, after the formation of abscesses in other parts of the body, or the development of acute glanders. In fact, independently of the local inflam- mation produced by the puncture, and of the inflammation of the lymphatic vessels and ganglions of the wounded arm, after the inocu- lation of farcy, secondary symptoms arise, almost invariably, such as partial angeioleucitis, and abscesses in distant parts. Several patients have complained of pains in the joints, simulating rheumatic fever, or have speedily manifested general symptoms of infection. In these cases of chronic farcy, the progress of the disease has been very slow, and very different from the multiple abscesses that occur in medical students after dissection w'ounds. Finally, after these multiple abscesses from farcinous or glanderous infection, alterations of the nose and larynx, glanderous in their nature and appearance, or at least considered to be such by competent judges, have been observed. In none of the cases in which medical students have been wounded, at least within my own knowledge, have any such alterations of the nasal fossae, or organs of the voice, been remarked. In solidipedes labour- ing under chronic farcy, I have often found these consecutive lesions of the larynx and nasal fossae. During life, the most certain and ready means of ascertaining the farcinous or non- farcinous nature of multiple abscesses, consists in inoculating a horse or ass with the fresh pus of the ulcers. The development of glan- ders, or farcy, removes all doubt as to the nature of the disease, comparative experiments having fully convinced me that the inocula- tion with common pus does not produce the same results. (See Glanders.) The multi- ple abscesses observed in the human subject affected with chronic farcy, present moreover particular characters in their mode of deve- lopment, occurring most frequently on the back of the shou'ders, in the fore-arms, thighs, and legs, rarely on the body. The matter they contain has not, especially in the early periods of its formation, the appearance of common pus. Farcinous pu3 resembles a mixture of pus and gelatiniform matter, the deposition of which takes place without pain, and often without the patient being conscious of it. When these purulent collections are opened with the knife, the wound remains for a long time fistulous, and sometimes ulcerates. When they form on the instep, the internal surface of the tibia, or in the vicinity of joints, they are sometimes followed by caries of the bones of the leg, of the tarsus, a circumstance which in several cases may have caused these abs- cesses to be considered of a venereal or scro- fulous nature. I may here remark, that multiple scrofulous abscesses arc formed almost always under the jaw's, in which situation farcinous abscesses in the human subject are very rare ; that if in chronic farcy, and in scrofula in the human subject, purulent collections are frequently formed in the vicinity of the articulations, we do not observe in scrofula, as in farcy, these abscesses appear in the length of the limbs, without previous engorgement of the lympha- tic ganglions, and a change to a violet colour of the skin that covers them ; moreover, that the multiple abscesses of scrofulous patients are only observed in persons of a decidedly strumous constitution, and in the train of other unequivocal symptoms of a constitutional taint ; and, finally, that in case of chronic farcy in a person of strumous habit, the inocu- lation of the pus on a horse or ass, removes all doubt as to its nature. Multiple venereal abscesses, and gummy tumours, may be distinguished from farcinous abscesses, in being formed on the superficial bones, upon the external lamellae of which they almost always produce alteration, and in their being preceded or accompanied by other syphilitic affections of the genitals, skin, throat, &c. After confluent variola, when the patient survives, during convalescence, variolous mul- tiple abscesses are sometimes formed, readily distinguishable from farcinous abscess, by the conditions under which they are developed. I have seen, though very rarely, after simple phlegmon, or phlegmonous erysipelas, multiple abscesses appear, in places more or less remote from the regions primitively affected ; an abscess in the fore-arm, followed by abscess under the arm-pit, in the arm, or in the opposite thigh. I have seen most of the patients recover from multiple abscesses, purely phlegmonous, without exhibiting any general symptoms of infection. I have, how- ever, seen two cases of phlegmon, in which all the phenomena of purulent absorption super- vened, probably in consequence of the inflam- mation of some of the veins in the vicinity of the primitive focus. Both these cases termi- nated fatally. To resume, however various the conditions