ANEURISM. 208 Fig. 60. The destruc- tion or rupture of the coats of an artery, which leads to the for- mation of an aneurism, is here illustrated : the thoracic aorta communi- cates with a sac that had hurst into the lunqs, the internal coat of the ar- tery was thickened, and at the part where it com- municated with the an- eurismal sac a portion of the circle of the internal and middle coats had been ruptured and de- stroyed by ulceration, the lacerated edges being separated to a considerable distance. The external nr celltdar coat is stript from the fibrous coat to a considerable extent, and forms the sac.—(Hodgson.) Sometimes the interior coat of the ar- tery is not only ruptured, but portions of that tunic hang loose like fringes, so that they float in the blood. (Haller) “ Some have conceived,” observes Laen- nec, “ no doubt from the smooth appear- ance of the opening by which the aneurismal sac communicates with the cavity of the artery, that the internal membrane forms a protrusion or sort of hernia, which extended through a rupture of the fibrous tunic, and after being gra- dually distended, lines the whole of the internal surface of the aneurismal sac, whilst the cellu- lar coat of the artery forms the external co- vering. Dubois and Dupuytren adopted this opinion, and they presented some anatomical preparations to the Society of the Faculty of Medicine, to prove that in certain cases the internal membrane extends through the open- ing of communication, and lines the internal surface of the sac some distance from the opening.” It sometimes happens that when the inter- nal coats of an artery give way, the blood, in place of distending the cellular covering of the vessel corresponding to such rupture, and there forming a common aneurismal tumour, insinuates itself between the cellular and fibrous coats of the vessel, and then becomes extravasated, sometimes to a considerable ex- tent, forming what is called by Laennec, a dissecting aneurism. In one remarkable case of this kind the blood was driven through the internal and fibrous coats, and dissected the fibrous from the cellular coat for the space of four inches, and then returned through an- other rent in the canal of the artery. This new channel of the blood had a coating of coagulable lymph, which had a smooth sur- face, and the rent in the tunics of the artery was so large as to transmit the greater por- tion of the blood, so that the original tube had also its direction altered from the com- pression of the swelling, the newly-formed canal having assumed its place. Contents of the Sac.—Besides the changes which have taken place in the tunics of an aneurismal artery, the sac will be found to contain two distinct substances,—coagulable lymph, or fibrine, and coagulated red blood. I am not aware that pathologists have distinctly pointed out these two different substances in the aneurismal sac, the word coagulum having been employed to designate both the concre- ted fibrine and the coagulated blood. It is of importance, however, that they should be dis- criminated when considering the treatment of the disease ; and I shall endeavour to show that they are the result of two very different processes. Fibrine.—When the fibrinous concretion is examined, it is found to consist of numerous concentric laminae, which are more or less easily separable from one another, and firmer in pro- portion as they approach nearer to the coats of the sac. The laminae of fibrine which are in immediate contact with the blood circulating in the sac have generally a flocculent appear- ance, and have coagula of red blood mixed with them. But in some aneurismal tumours the con- creted fibrine has its interior surface smooth and polished, being lined throughout by a membrane which has the appearance, as al- ready mentioned, of being continuous with the lining membrane of the artery. The sac being lined with a membrane of this descrip- tion shows the power which the system has of reproducing a serous membrane under par- ticular circumstances, in like manner as has been often observed with regard to other textures. Though the fibrinous concretion in an aneurism can be easily separated from the sac, yet it adheres closely to its internal surface, and I have every reason to believe that there is a vascular connexion existing between them. Morgagni, indeed, doubted the possibility of aneurismal concretions being produced by a mere stagnation of the blood. Neither the precise nature of the connexion which exists between the aneurismal sac and the concretion, nor the nature of the process by which such concretions are formed, have been accurately pointed out by pathological inquir- ers. There is evidently a great difference, how- ever, in the anatomical characters of a common clot of blood and a fibrinous concretion ; and the coagulated lymph, or fibrine, which is de- posited in an aneurism appears to me to bear a strong analogy to the internal clot found in an artery on which a ligature has been placed, and likewise with those polypiform concre- tions which are formed within the cavities of the heart. Besides the coagulum of blood which is formed within the canal of an artery, immediately after the application of a ligature, and which acts merely as a temporary barrier to the flow of the blood, there is subsequently an exudation of fibrine from the internal coat of the artery, commencing from the place of the ligature, and extending as far up the canal as that point from which the first branch is sent off" from the trunk of the artery. This fibrine adheres intimately, and appears to have a vascular connexion with the internal coat of the vessel. In the Hunterian Museum there 15