EAR, AND HEARING, DISEASES OF. 52 place in an independent manner ; an occur- rence very likely, when it is remembered, that in the labyrinth there are parts in all respects comparable to those of the eye-ball. Out- side the labyrinth, the auditory nerves have been found the seat of structural changes, such as softening, atrophy, morbid growths, &c., or they have been compressed by or im- plicated in various morbid formations of the brain, its membranes, or the bones of the skull. Irritation or excitement of the auditory nerves from other causes than sonorous im- pulses, gives rise to sounds, such as ringing or buzzing in the ear ; but such purely subjective sounds are to be distinguished, as Muller re- marks, from those sounds which are owing to sonorous vibrations excited in some part of the auditory apparatus, by yawning or blowing the nose, by the pulsation of the vessels in or about the ear, &c. Excessive sensibility to sound (ht/percusis), is to the ear what photophobia is to the eye. Various degrees of diminished hearing have been distinguished under the following names. Cophosis, or total deafness ; Baryecoia, Dy- secoia, or dulness of hearing; Paracusis, or confused hearing. Nervous deafness. Under this name has been comprehended all cases of deafness, as a cause of which some lesion of those parts of the ear accessible to our observation, could not be detected. But many of the cases thus named, I have already expressed my belief, are not cases of disease of the auditory nervous apparatus, but belong to the class of cases above de- scribed under the head of chronic inflamma- tion and thickening of the lining membrane of the tympanic cavity. Others, 1 have no doubt, are cases of disease of the auditory nervous apparatus, congestion or inflammation merely, or actual organic change, such as is mentioned above1. The following is a sketch of “ nervous deaf- ness,” as commonly drawn by authors : Two forms of the affection are commonly described ; the one attended by erethism, the other with torpor. Noises in the ear, Kramer considers the distinguishing characteristic of the former, and their absence that of the latter. Eritliitic nervous deafness.—Diminution of hearing, usually in one ear only at first. By and by the other ear becomes affected, and sooner or later, noises set in, and that always to a greater degree in the ear first attacked. The sounds at first are grave and murmuring, (susurrus,) and as the disease advances, be- come shrill and tinkling (tinnitus'). Not un- frequently the patient is unable to refer the noises to any particular seat, whether in the ears or in the head, or whether in one or other ear. Bad weather, and any excitement of mind or body, together with depressing passions, 1 The deafness which attends evident disease of the hrain is not taken into account here, as it forms but a secondary consideration in the case. and whatever tends to sink the powers of the body, augment the sounds and dulness of hearing, whilst mild dry weather and serenity of mind and ease of body alleviate them. When very slight, the sounds are not per- ceived in the midst of bustle. Torpid nervous deafness.—In this case the torpor may have existed from the first, or suc- ceeded to the crithitic state. The complaint is characterised simply by the hearing be- coming worse and worse. Although noises in the ear have been here mentioned as a diagnostical symptom, it is to be remembered that they are by no means characteristic of nervous deafness alone, for they accompany many other diseases of the ear, and that often in a very variable manner. Noises in the ear, though sometimes the most distressing symptom, cannot be looked on as a disease of itself. Persons affected with nervous deafness often hear better during the prevalence of a monotonous sound, such as the rattling of a carriage, the ringing of bells, or the beating of a drum, whilst a healthy ear is deafened by the noise. On examination, the secretion of ear-wax is generally, though not always found diminish- ed or suppressed. In the latter case the au- ditory passage is quite dry, and covered often with a powdery desquamation of the cuticle. The membrana tympani is almost always white, like paper, and opaque. There is sometimes a troublesome itching in the ear. Frequently the skin of the auditory passage, the auricle, and even the adjacent parts, are benumbed or insensible. The state of parts just described, Itard considered the most certain signs of nervous deafness. According to Kramer, the Eustachian tubes are in general free, and the air-douche pene- trates without any difficulty to the cavity of the tympanum. After this operation has been undergone, the patient remarks, and this Kramer considers a positive symptom of ner- vous deafness, that the dulness, as well as the noises in the ear is aggravated, although only for an hour, or perhaps less. The head be- comes confused and the ear as if plugged up. This injurious action of the air-douche is more marked in the erethitic form than in the tor- pid, although it is not wanting in the latter. Sometimes, but very rarely, the progress of the deafness becomes arrested. In general, however, the complaint goes on increasing until it becomes so great that sounds are heard only when distinctly emitted close to the ear, and especially directed towards the auricle. In general the deafness stops here. It is only occasionally we meet with persons utterly deaf. The diminution of hearing may be already very considerable before the patient’s atten- tion is drawn to his complaint. Sometimes the ticking of a watch, which may be heard by a sound ear at the distance of thirty feet, is not heard at a greater distance than one foot: often not more than an inch or two.