ADHESION. 48 many owe their deliverance from pain to the prolonged or frequent application of the needles, who had sought relief in vain from the adoption, and long perseverance in the use of other means. For our own parts, fully convinced of its importance in therapeutics, we should merely recommend that greater at- tention be bestowed in observing the cases in which it is found beneficial, in order to enable us to point out with greater precision, those in which it is suitable. (John Elliotson.') ADHESION, adhcesio, Lat., irpoetyvaiq Gr., adhesion, adherence, Fr., Anwachsung, die Anhdnglichkeit, Ger., conjungioni, aderenzc, Ital. The term adhesion is applied in a general sense to the accidental, or abnormal union of parts, whether in consequence of a primitive arrangement of the organization itself, or of inflammation, producing the continuity of parts that are naturally unconnected, or artifi- cially separated: in a more limited sense, that in which it is emphatically surgical, it desig- nates the act or condition of union, between the sides of any preternatural solution of con- tinuity. The French pathologists sometimes employ the word adhesion to denote the act, and adherence the state of union. We shall notice in this article the adhesions, essentially reparative, that nature establishes between the different portions of membranes naturally free, that line the visceral, mucous, or synovial cavities, as well as those accidental adhesions which impede the functions of organs. In a living organism, whose relations with the external world are innumerable, the power of sustainment alone, if it could be conceived, independent of that of reparation, would be obviously insufficient; and the first lesion of its integrity would involve necessarily the de- struction of the whole. The designs of Nature would be frustrated; as few, if any, of the multitudes of living beings that exist, could ever reach maturity. Accordingly, in the study of organization we find that this repara- tive power, with its appropriate element, cel- lular tissue, is largely bestowed. The history of cellular tissue alone comprises, not only that of the production of adhesions in general, but of every other tissue of the body. It is not improbable, that the closest relation exists, from the most rudimentary state of the being to the latest period of existence, between the quantity of the cellular element and the in- tensity of the productive power. In the first stages of human foetal life, when the formative power displays such rapid and wonderful changes in the development of form and structure, the cellular or coagulable element may be said to be the only one that can be recognised, the matrix in which all the organs are successively moulded. In the adult, the power of producing organs has ceased as to the individual, being entirely di- verted to a single function, that of the repro- duction of the species; the cellular element has diminished in proportion to the organs that have been founded and produced in it, and its function now is simply reparative. In old age, the hard structures tend to predomi- nate, the cellular tissue gradually diminishes, till the reparative power is totally extin- guished, and death takes place. This fact of reparation must have been amongst the earliest recognised by physiolo- gists, and of course the mode in which it is effected must have been an object of investi- gation at a very remote period. Galen in some part of his works, in speaking of wounds, has bequeathed the very phrase which at this day is used to designate one of their modes of union, namely, that by first intention. The subject, however, had received but little use- ful investigation until the great Hunter turned his attention to it. He devoted thirty years of his life to the study of inflammation in its symptoms and effects upon the various tissues, and by thus tracing out a clear path in which the pathologist enjoys the advantage of his mighty labours, he founded a new era in the science, no less glorious for his couutry, and advantageous for humanity, than the disco- veries of Harvey and Jenner. Adhesion takes place between various parts of the foetus in the womb; it is then termed congenital, and presents to us the imperforate conditions of the anus, vagina, eyelids, nose, mouth, &c. It occurs between the surfaces of parts, naturally free, when the conditions that produce it are present, and the parts are in contact, as between the costal and pulmonic pleurae, the visceral and parietal folds of the peritoneum, the heart, and pericardium, &c., and between the surfaces of recent wounds when brought into contact, or so nearly so that the small space may be filled by a coagu- lable matter that soon exudes from the wound- ed surfaces. In this last sense, adhesion is eminently sanatory, and furnishes a broad basis whereon to rear up the noblest enter- prises of surgery, constituting a large portion of its highest achievements, whether curative or operative. Although the study of adhesion, inasmuch as it relates to surgery, may be chiefly con- fined to lesions produced by accident or art, on external parts, it will, nevertheless, be pro- per, in order to a clear understanding of all its phenomena, to consider adhesion, in what- ever situation, and in whatever manner, it may be produced. We shall first consider adhesion in its simplest form ; namely, as occurring between the clean surfaces of an incised wound, in which, as Hunter expresses it, “ the operations of restoration arise naturally out of the wound itself, which having been made in healthy parts, both the disposition and the means of cure are present.” After the blood ceases to flow, a small portion may be retained upon the divided surfaces, which coagulates; when the lips in this state are brought together, a reddish lymph soon begins to exude, and an action is set up, during which the lips of the solutions of continuity become agglutinated. This lymph, to which Hunter gave the name of coagulating, is, according to the recent re- searches of Lassaigne, not albuminous, as has been hitherto imagined, but composed of the