107 EMPYEMA. arise in determining its source. The super- vention of pneumothorax will, in many cases, assist the careful observer under these cir- cumstances. The position of the opening in the lung, its size, the state of the adjoining tissues, the degree of fluidity of the effusion, are the chief circumstances influencing the celerity of evacuation. The decumbiture of patients with empyema varies, as a general rule, with the duration of the disease. For a time, such persons, almost without exception, lie on the affected side, or on its outer and posterior edge,—that is, on the back and side conjointly, with the head bent towards the shoulder of the affected side : in this manner, the viscera are best pro- tected from the pressure of the accumulated fluid. Richerand, it is true, maintained that the power of resistance possessed by the mediastinum was sufficient to counteract any such pressure, and that the true object of the patients in avoiding decumbiture on the sound side was to afford all possible facility for its expansion. The very imperfect experiments upon which this opinion rests, are altogether inconclusive; and, as the details already given show, percussion proves the occurrence of de- trusion, and consequently the reality of exten- sibility, of the mediastinum. The more chronic the case, and hence the better habituated to partial displacement and unnatural pressure the parts become, the more easily (unless the seve- rity of the disease actually increase with its duration) is decumbiture on the back, or even on the sound side, borne. Persons with chronic effusion, assuming the latter posture, ran very serious risk, before the discovery of percus- sion and auscultation, of having their chests punctured on the wrong side,—a misadven- ture which has, indeed, as also in cases of pneumothorax, (see Emphysema, p. 79,) more than once actually occurred. When dyspnoea is intense, orthopnoea is not uncom- monly observed ; and the patient assumes those positions—with the face hanging over the side of the bed, the trunk bent forwards, &c.—characteristic of that deplorable species of suffering. Detrusion of the heart does not necessarily induce any change in the sounds produced in that organ, or in the movement of the blood through its orifices. Larrey, however, relates a ease, in which extreme feebleness of the pulse in the large arteries co-existed with such displacement. Whether the tendency to fainting, which sometimes increases the sufferings of patients with empyema, may in any measure depend upon the altered position of the heart, we are unprepared to say. CEdema of the integuments of the affected half of the thorax, sometimes involving the entire side of the body, commonly attends advanced empyema: the face, too, is puffy, and has a semi-transparent aspect—the lips are tumid and livid coloured. It is asserted by some writers, that the sound lung is peculiarly prone to contract inflammation of an uncontrollable character. Now that inflammation, once excited, is likely to prove more destructive in that organ, than if its fellow were healthy, is almost a truism ; but the notion of its greater liability to such disease, is one which we do not believe to be established by observation. The only change we have ourselves observed with any undue share of frequency under these circumstances in the healthy organ, is hypertrophy of its substance; a change which can hardly be viewed in the light of disease, as it is not only compatible with the free exercise of function, but enables the organ to perform more than its natural share of duty. The constitutional effects of empyema vary in their degree of severity, but follow the type of those induced by organic disease. The pulse is commonly accelerated, and the skin hot ; and this febrile state early assumes the hectic character. The fever attending empyema may, it has been said, be distin- guished from that of phthisis by the diminish- ed rapidity of the pulse after sleep, and by the absence of flush over the malar bones. Deficient oxygenation of the blood is probably the remote cause of the emaciation attending the malady : anorexia, irregularity of the bowels and of the cutaneous functions, com- bine with total insomnia, or disturbed sleep, to wear out the patient. Terminations.—Empyema left to itself, or inertly treated, almost invariably terminates fatally, destroying the patient by gradual in- terruption of the conservative functions, and immediately by a sort of slow asphyxia. For- tunate examples of natural cure do, however, occur—the result either of absorption or of evacuation of the fluid through the lungs or thoracic parietes. The frequency of natural cure arising through absorption has plainly been exaggerated. The tales of rapidly ab- sorbed empyemata, reported by authors at a period when the diagnosis of the disease was almost or perfectly impossible, deserve no credence ; and in numbers of more recently related examples of absorbed empyema, the affection never merited this name,—inasmuch as the effusion presented nothing of the chro- nic character essential to the constitution of the disease. In the practice of those who apply the term to acute effusion at its early stage, the absorption of empyema must be an almost daily occurrence ; but such use of the word cannot be indulged in without confound- ing states essentially and widely different. It is a matter of very common belief, that the existence of hectic form proves that the pleuritic fluid is purulent: this is decidedly an error; we have repeatedly observed cases of the kind in which the contents of the pleura were discovered after death to be purely sero-albuminous. Instances of recovery in consequence of spontaneous evacuation of the fluid through a parietal opening, are on record in consider- able number; and w'e have, as most prac- titioners, witnessed examples of such mode of cure. When the fluid escapes through the