FRACTURE. 367 more manifest, as if from a separation of the 2 Dublin Journal of Med. Science, vol. vi. the kind of fracture ; for still the majority of cases do not betray much evidence of the previous atrophic changes which a few mani- fest. Secondly, as to the indisposition to repair ; which will bear some proportion to the state of atrophy. Thirdly, as to the ap- pearances which simulate bony reunion ; and which may be fallacious, either from the effects of absorption, or of superficial ossifi- cations. The place at which the epiphysis becomes consolidated, would seem at times to be the seat of peculiar derangements. The fracture of the neck of the femur is usually said to be more commonly a trans- verse than an oblique one. Cases of trans- verse fracture occasionally, though rarely, hap- pen in which the neck of the bone is wedged into the body of the femur. The lower the fracture is, or the more it involves the trochanters, the more we may look for obliquity, comminution or crushing, and displacement, and also for impaction and shortening. The diagnosis of fractures of the neck of the thigh-bone is not always uniform as to its signs; especially where the division is within the capsular ligament. We should expect to find acute pain, inability to walk, or even to rise from the ground; shorten- ing and relaxation of the limb, an everted foot and knee, diminished prominence of the hip, the knee a little bent; and crepitus when the limb is drawn down, and slight rotations performed. A contusion of the hip will sometimes simulate a fracture of the neck of the femur ; and the actual or partial division of this part is said to have occurred with effects so slight as not to hinder the patient from rising and walking home. The subjects of such injuries have been even known to get up and walk on the day following that on which the accident occurred. This circumstance would seem sometimes to be owing to one portion of the fracture being impacted or wedged into the other, within the capsular ligament; or a cer- tain degree of coaptation, together with sup- port from ligaments and muscles, may explain this persistent power of locomotion in a case of complete fraction : but we should remember, that possibly the fracture has been incom- plete in the first instance, and that the com- plete division may have been subsequently effected, by exertion, by the surgeon, or other- wise only after death. The shortening of the limb, when the power to walk remains, may amount only to a few lines. This renders the accident less easily discriminated, since a slight ascent of the pelvis will follow a mere contusion ; and it is this occasionally insignificant degree of displacement which seems to create the chief uncertainty in the diagnosis of the acci- dent. After a time, more or less remote from the occurrence of the injury, sometimes fifty, sixty, or eighty days, the fracture may become fragments having taken place. But this change is most reasonably to be attributed to a combination of causes. The weight of the body or of the limb, the action of the mus- cles, or the employment of any kind of ten- sion on the part of the surgeon, some of the fragments giving way or becoming wasted, or ligamentous parts relaxed, must produce some effect. It has been suggested, that the in- creased shortening may most frequently de- pend on the yielding of the fibrous covering of the cervix in particular. It is an important general truth, that more or less considerable shortening attends cases of fracture of the neck of the femur. The degree of retraction is variously stated ; it must evidently depend much upon the direc- tion and extent of the fracture, the injury to soft parts, and the form and solidity of the tissues injured. It appears that retraction is almost entirely prevented, so long as the fibrous covering of the divided bone remains entire ; but the value of this, rather theoreti- cal remark, belongs chiefly to the illustration of the fact, that we may every now and then meet with cases of comparatively little lesion; and it is, doubtless, important to know, that both the manipulation for diagnosis, and that for treatment may be pernicious ; as may also the neglect of cautious treatment for a quarter of an hour. The fact, that incomplete fractures, ex- tending in an oblique direction through the neck of the femur, may readily be effected after death ; and the dissections by Dr. Colies, proving that fractures do not always extend completely through the neck of the femur, not only prove the necessary absence of all retraction in some fractures, but add confirma- tion to such cases as are related by Mr. Stanley, illustrative of this point1. According to Sir A. Cooper, the extent of shortening in cases of fracture within the cap- sule, may be from one inch to two inches, and we conceive that this statement is scarcely too free; while Mr. Smith, of Dublin2, states it to be only from a quarter of an inch to one inch ; and from one inch to two inches and a half in fractures that occur external to the capsule. The greatest degrees of short- ening attend some fractures below the tro- chanters. When the capsule of the joint is exten- sively torn, a state which may also, in part, be produced by the attempt to walk ; or, when the fracture, being external to the capsule, the whole force of muscular action draws up the lower fragment, and the weight of the body acts upon the upper, the trochanters may be retracted to the edge of the acetabu- lum, or even towards the ilium; effecting a shortening of the limb to the extent of two or three inches. Of course, comminution is a cause of considerable shortening. Of fifteen cases, carefully examined by Mr. 1 Med.-Chir. Trans, vol. xiii.