FRACTURE. 336 been luxated than fractured: under such cir- cumstances, replacement is more easily effected by the mouth. FRACTURES OF THE LOWER JAW. The inferior maxillary bone, which next falls under our notice, differs from the bones already spoken of, in being secured by move- able articulations, and subject to the controul of various powerful muscles ; and it will soon appear, as we anticipated in our general con- siderations, that a due knowledge of the mus- cles is of the utmost service in the investiga- tion and management of the cases of fracture which are affected by them. Here I cannot omit to urge, as an essential principle in the treatment of fractures, the consideration of the attitude of repose, as the first step towards good coaptation wherever muscles are con- cerned. There may be good reasons for de- viating from this position in various cases; but it cannot be denied, that this is the po- sition best calculated to avoid tension of every muscle, and that to deviate from it will proportionately overstrain some muscles. As I shall frequently have occasion to advert to the application of the principle, it seemed right, partially to enforce it. It may be con- sidered as a little surprising that the opinion has not been long and familiarly noticed. The lower jaw, by reason of its mobility, is capable, in some measure, of eluding the effects of violence—of yielding in different directions ; and, but for this, its exposed situa- tion would render it liable to be more fre- quently fractured. The character of the frac- ture in a given case, will have reference to the bone itself, the part broken, and to the surrounding structures. Fractures of the lower jaw-bone must often be prevented by the solidity and toughness of the bone, as well as by its peculiar construc- tion. Their common course is through the horizontal body of the bone ; and this case is usually of the nature of open fracture, if only a tooth be displaced, for there is no efficient membrane in the alveolar cell, to exclude the air from the cavity of the fracture. We shall, however, find many proofs that open fracture is of slight importance, unless the fracture and the cavity produced around are extensive. An important distinction of cases depends on the part broken. The body of the bone, the ascending plate, the neck, the coronoid process, and the symphysis, are liable to frac- tures : and nearly in the order here stated. Various degrees of obliquity and comminu- tion, and several complications, may occasion- ally attend the fracture of each part. A blow on any part of the bone may cause a fracture at the precise spot on which it strikes. The coronoid process, notwithstanding its deep and protected situation, has in this way been broken off. But it more frequently happens, that the impulse takes effect on another part of the bone ; as when the neck is divided by a blow on the chin, or when lateral pressure fractures some part of the anterior arch. In the situation of the symphysis the bone is somewhat thicker and stronger, on account of prominences and the attachment of the muscle, than it is immediately on either side ; and, from this circumstance, it follows that the division scarcely ever occurs at the middle point (excepting occasionally in children), but at a short distance from it. In this case the muscles situated between the symphysis of the chin and the os hyoides, not including the mylo-hyoideus, act only on the larger portion, and this will consequently be depressed below the level of the other part. This will, how- ever, be the only deformity, and less in de- gree than when the separation occurs, behind the attachment of the last-mentioned muscle. In that case, all the depressor muscles of the jaw will draw down the chin, and there will be no antagonist to the masseter, temporal, and pterygoid muscles on the side of the frac- ture. The rising of one part above the other will consequently be considerable; in addi- tion to which, the pterygoid muscles will tend to draw both portions towards the centre of the mouth. The displacement produced by a fracture through the ascending process, is much less than in the preceding case ; and it is, likewise, much more concealed, on account of the attachment of the masseter and ptery- goid muscles on its opposite sides. It should also be observed, that as the greater part of the bone remains in one piece, with most of the muscles attached to it, it is capable of performing all the motions natural to it, though with less steadiness than in its sound condition ; and hence it is, that the power of opening and shutting the mouth, and even masticating food, has been preserved in some cases. It is scarcely possible to suppose that the dental nerve and artery, which enter the posterior maxillary foramen, and traverse the body of the bone, can escape from being stretched, lacerated, or compressed, when this part is broken through with displacement; yet we have the authority of Boyer for say- ing, that any serious consequences arising from these causes are of rare occurrence. When the condyle is separated from the rest of the ascending apophyses, it will be drawn inwards and forwards by the external pterygoid muscle, without affording to the sur- geon the slightest chance of restoring it by any force that can be applied to it. The in- ternal pterygoid muscle will not permit the ascending process to be thrown in the oppo- site direction ; but, by drawing the bone up- wards, in combination with the action of the temporal muscle, it will create an overlapping of the fragments, or what we have described as angular displacement. When the coronoid process is detached, it becomes raised by the temporal muscle, and leaves no hope of our being able to bring it again into contact with the body of the bone. The reunion is consequently by ligament, and the temporal muscle is proportionately enfeebled, but all the others retain due power. When the fracture extends through both