ARTERITIS. 384 place. He complains of his extreme debility, and pain in the armpits, when moderate pres- sure is made on this region. The tongue is moist, rose-coloured ; the teeth are not dry, nor fuliginous ; there is no nausea, no vomit- ing. The thirst is great, the colour of the pharynx natural, there is no pain or pressure on any part of the abdomen, no diarrhoea. The urine is scanty and high coloured. The liver does not project beyond the margins of the ribs ; the size of the spleen is natural ; the heart does not extend beyond its ordinary limits; the prsecordial region gives a clear sound ; pulse regular and full, 120 ; respira- tion 24 in a minute, vesicular to the right, both before and behind ; sound clear on per- cussion on all this side. At the top of the left lung, and in front, the respiration is more feeble, accompanied with a sub-crepitant rale, and strong expiratory sound ; the percussion is somewhat less sonorous than on the right side. The mucous expectoration is soft ; in two or three, a few streaks of blood occur, but the spits are neither rusty, viscid, nor semi-transparent. (Digitalis and diuretic drinks ordered).” “ On the 28th, he passed an extremely rest- less night; pulse 125. Eight ounces ot blood having been abstracted, he obtained relief and rest. At five o’clock, a.m., however, he was suddenly attacked with excessive and suffo- cating pain, just below the margin of the left false ribs. The application of fifteen leeches, loco (lolenli, procured some alleviation ; his in- tellect remained perfect, although he wan- dered continually; pulse 120, regular and full ; respiration but slightly affected ; tongue moist, rose-coloured ; thirst still great. No increase of the oedema since yesterday ; urine scanty and turbid ; abdomen greatly meteor- ized. At eight o’clock, a.m., the pain shifted to the praecordia, and became much more in- tense. Fifty leeches were applied, and the pain soon ceased, but was followed by con- vulsions which only lasted a short time. His strength declined rapidly ; countenance cada- veric. During the day, an opiate procured sleep ; the breathing frequent, plaintive, and irregular. Towards evening the pulse became very feeble, and all the symptoms aggravated, although he did not seem to feel any local pain. His intellect remained unimpaired to the last moment. He expired on the 30th, in the morning.” “Autopsy twenty-eight hours after death :— Infiltration considerable in the upper extre- mities, still greater in the neck, which is of a violet colour, more on the left arm than on the right, moderate in the body and thighs, and slight in the legs and feet; abdomen very much meteorized ; embonpoint unaltered ; skin tinged slightly yellow, and slightly ec- chymosed on the back ; strong smell of putre- faction, no cadaveric rigidity. The pericar- dium contained four or five ounces of brown serum. The lining membrane of the anterior surface of the right ventricle, and the opposite wall of the pericardium, were studded, to the extent of two inches, with small soft yellow granulations, of the size of grains of sand ; these could be easily torn off, and beneath them the serous membrane did not present any appearance of injection.” “ The heart of full size was extremely flaccid, and could be torn without difficulty ; the left ventricle was quite empty, its internal surface was of an ashy colour, presenting, near the aortic valves, small granulations, and a very thin, soft, yellowish membrane, which peeled off without difficulty, giving a rough appear- ance to the surface on which it had been formed; this exudation was also spread on the aortic valves, which, though of a deep red, were still flexible. The aorta, throughout its entire length, was of a deep violet colour ; no capil- lary vessels, however, could be distinguished, nor did it contain either fluid or coagulated blood. The same granulations, and false mem- branes, were found in greater or less quantities throughout the whole length of the vessel, giving to its internal surface an unpolished appearance ; they could also be detached with the same facility. Similar alterations were found in the left crural artery ; that of the right side was of a violet red, but without granulations, or false membrane. The carotid and subclavian artery, though red, were healthy. The orifice of the aorta was natural, all the valves of the heart were flexible, the pulmo- nary artery, though red, was smooth and po- lished. In the right ventricle, there were no granulations, and very little blood; even in the right auricle, there were but a few small clots; the vena cava, the iliac and crural veins were also empty. Each pleura contained from four to five ounces of reddish serum. The right lung was free, the left was united late- rally at its upper part to the pleura, by old bands of adhesion. There were neither tuber- cles, nor grey granulations, nor hepatization in any part of the lungs. There was slight em- physema along the thin edge of the left lung ; both lungs contained generally more than the usual quantity of blood, but there was no soft- ening of their substance. The bronchial tubes generally were pale; the bronchial glands,soft, deep-coloured, but not tuberculous ; the cer- vical were twice their usual size, soft, and of a greyish violet colour. The trachea was of a violet colour also, but without any other le- sion ; the larynx was perfectly healthy. With the exception of an ounce or two of limpid serum, there was no effusion into the cavity of the abdomen; the peritoneum was perfectly smooth.” “ The stomach contained a little mucus, and was distended with gas; its mucous membrane generally was of a greenish grey colour, with some darkish patches along the lesser curva- ture ; its consistence was firm, and thickness natural. The duodenum had a greyish hue; the jejunum greatly meteorized contained a little yellow mucus, with long and numerous fragments of trenia; its mucous membrane pre- sented a few bluish arborizations, but was not much injected. Towards the end of the