ANATOMY, MORBID. 202 taminated by the disease often become simi- larly affected. Colour is another quality of diseased parts, which is well worthy of careful attention, al- though by no means adapted to become the basis of classification, since a similarity of colour would bring together derangements in every other respect essentially distinct. Nevertheless, in some very striking cases, a well marked peculiarity of colour seems to have given the principal interest to certain affections, as in the case of melanosis, cirrho- sis, morbus-cceruleus, chlorosis, and the like. The principles on which these varieties of colour depend, appear only to a very limited and imperfect extent, to have arrested the attention of pathological anatomists. The division into malignant and more malig- nant, although of great importance, with refer- ence to the patient, and the symptoms under which he labours, affords a very imperfect dis- tinction with reference to anatomical character. It has already been stated, that most, if not all, malignant structures belong to one of the classes enumerated in the table, in conse- quence of a striking resemblance of structure ; but there are other productions manifestly exhibiting these peculiarities, which could never be regarded as participating in the malignant character. Take, for example, some of the encysted dropsies of the ovaries, or their neighbourhood, and some tumours in the female breast. The history of the cultivation of Morbid Anatomy is so intimately involved with that of the progress of Medicine and Surgery, that it can be of little importance to sketch it in a separate form. Those who feel an interest in this subject may consult the works of Cruvelhier and Lobstein for a short ex- position of what has been done expressly for the cultivation of this branch of pathology. Suffice it to say, in the words of Rostan :— “ When a superstitious respect for the tomb forbad to seek in the bodies of the dead for knowledge, which might redound to the ad- vantage of the living, most diseases were regarded as essential and general ; and it was imagined that they did not leave any trace behind them. At length, when the light of philosophy had illuminated civilized nations, it became allowable to carry a scrutinizing inquiry into the lifeless human body ; and those remains, which were once the prey of worms and corruption, became the prolific sources, whence the most useful truths pro- ceeded. “ From that time, diseases, which had pre- viously only been regarded as derangements of function, were recognised as organic alter- ations. Mere symptoms lost their ancient importance, and were only valued as indica- tions of organic derangements.” Since this happy revolution in opinion has taken place, Morbid Anatomy has been culti- vated with zeal, and its advancement has pro- ceeded with accelerating rapidity. Several important general treatises, and a still greater number of admirable works, elucidating the derangements of particular parts, have been published both in our own and in foreign languages. In fact, whatever may have been the extent of lucrative practice, or ephemeral popular celebrity, which individual members of the medical profession may have acquired by superior address, or the zealous advocacy of particular theoretical speculations, or by modes of treatment, rendered attractive by the promise of extraordinary success, few, if any have assured to themselves permanent reputation among their brethren, (the only competent judges,) whose labours have not been conjoined with researches, in which pathological anatomy has been concerned; whilst very many, who have devoted the most laborious and indefatigable attention to this department, have made it the broad and sure basis on which they have raised the super- structure of their lasting fame. I need only mention the names of Morgagni, of Voightel, of Portal, of Baillie, of Bayle, of Laennec, of Cruvelhier, of Andral, of Louis, and of Bil- liard, and last, but not least, of Sir Astley Cooper, of Dr. Bright, and of Dr. Carswell. It is not, however, as the means of acquir- ing reputation, though well merited, that the advantages of Morbid Anatomy may be most strongly urged ; but rather as one of those essential requisites, without which no one can expect to be able to discharge his profes- sional duties with satisfaction to the public, or with an easy conscience to himself. Although Morbid Anatomy, in the wide range allotted to it in this article has been described as including, not the mere dry de- tail of numberless repulsive and unconnected facts, but, on the contrary, an assemblage of interesting phenomena, developing some of the most wonderful operations of nature, yet it is in connection with other depart- ments, that its vast importance and value are conspicuous. It lends to Physiology that as- sistance, for which no artificial method of inquiry can supply an adequate substitute. As the only means of throwing certain light upon internal diseases, it is both the basis and the test of diagnosis ; and those who neglect this test of their diagnostic powers, are blindly groping in the dark, whether they are con- scious of their situation or not. Morbid Ana- tomy does not merely enlighten us with respect to those cases of disease which we have un- successfully endeavoured to combat: it makes us aware of dangers, which we must be on our guard to avert; and it points out to us the path which Nature takes to reduce to a per- manent and comparatively healthy, or unim- portant condition, those derangements, which do not admit of perfect restoration ; a course in which Nature may be aided, but in which she cannot be opposed with impunity. These advantages are not the only rewards held out to excite to the diligent cultivation of a subject, which, when first approached, may well be thought repulsive. Without doubt, there yet remain important discoveries