ANUS. 312 istence of spasm, and produced, either by the evolution of hardened faeces, or by the forcible introduction of the glyster-pipe. This view is somewhat corroborated by contrasting the habits of those classes of society among whom the disease is prevalent, with those of people to whom it is nearly a stranger. The custom of washing out the bowels obtains much more extensively on the Continent of Europe than it does in this country, and more in this country than on the Continent of America. In a direct ratio with the prevalence of this custom do we find the disease in question, so that while it is but oc- casionally met with in England, (and, then not among the mass) it is of common occur- rence in France and Italy, but entirely un- known to such of our American brethren as have not witnessed European practice. It is to be borne in mind, that the habit of glystering is induced by a passive condition of the bowels, and is practised long before the patient comes under the observation of the surgeon, (indeed, most likely before the sphincters have become spasmed) and there- fore he has no means of determining the prior- ity of the phenomena ; but we are strength- ened in our opinion by the fact, that we have never seen or heard of a case of spasm of the anus in which a fissure occurred after it had been submitted to the care of a judi- cious surgeon. The situation of the fissure is pointed out by the exquisite pain which prevails above the general suffering, but it is sometimes so superficial and indistinct that the eye cannot detect it. At other times by carefully putting aside the nates, pressing them downwards on each side, whereby all the furrows will be unfolded, and causing the patient to force down the gut, an ulcerated line will be seen, analogous in its appearance to the slit we observe in the winter-lip, and occupying the space between two of the folds which the skin forms as it enters the orifice of the anus. It is generally situated on one side or the other, and rarely to the back, and still more rarely to the fore part of the aperture. Its edges are of a dirty-yellow colour and some- times slightly thickened; its depth is of a glaring red, and it sometimes extends a con- siderable distance up the rectum. The agony that is produced by the passage of the faeces over the ulcerated surface is so great as almost to bring on fainting or convulsions, and the mere discharge of wind is so painful and diffi- cult to perform, that in the case of a lady treated by Boyer she had been reduced to the necessity of relieving herself by introducing a gum-elastic tube. When the expulsion of the faeces is accom- plished, there arises the same enduring pain as occurs in cases where fissure is not present; but it is either less in amount, or appears to be so, by the greater pain which precedes it. At all events, the acute, burning sensation which attends defecation, is succeeded by a sicken- ing, bearing-down pain, which extends to the thighs, and which insensibly becomes more and more obtuse, but never entirely vanishes. In the treatment of cases of this description, we cast aside all consideration of the fissure, and address ourselves to the cure of the affec- tion to which the fissure is merely superadded. There can be no question that the division of the sphincter, on one or both sides, is the surest and readiest mode of placing the parts in a state of repose, and every consideration which would influence us in the treatment of spasm with congestion but without fissure, would be operative in those cases in which it is present. The alternate separation and approximation of its surfaces by the distension of the faeces, and the contraction of the sphinc- ter, is prevented by this operation, and, in the majority of instances, it will be cicatrized long before the severed parts are reunited, if it be not comprehended in the incision. Boyer has described it as being the only mode in which relief can be afforded, and he attaches but little importance to dividing the muscle through the fissure. The object being to unload the congested tissues and to cut the string, as it were, of a tied-up bag, the fissure becomes a matter of subordinate considera- tion ; but, nevertheless, as the same object will be gained by dividing the sphincter at the part where the ulceration exists, it may be, as Velpeau remarks, a point of prudence, if not of necessity, to let the knife act in that direction. Some difference of opinion exists as to the certainty of success attending this operation. Boyer in the course of a long practice never found it to fail, while, on the other hand, Velpeau states that the same success has not attended it in the hands of others. He him- self has witnessed two cases where death en- sued after the operation; in one the pelvic viscera adhered to each other, and the cellu- lar tissue was infiltrated with pus ; and in the other, purulent deposits were found under the pelvic portion of the peritoneum. It does not, however, follow that the operation was instrumental in producing these effects, nor does it clearly appear that M. Velpeau is of opinion that the avoidance of the operation and the adoption of other means would have been attended with a more happy termination. Dupuytren has recommended the employ- ment of a plug smeared with an ointment composed of one part of extract of belladonna, one part of diacetate of lead, and six parts of lard, gradually augmenting the size of the plug until it is as large as the fore-finger. Velpeau reports that M. Dubois was accus- tomed to maintain that plugs gradually in- creased in size would constantly succeed ; and that, acting on this opinion, he has himself so completely succeeded in two instances as to induce him to recommend the practice. There can be no doubt that lead and bella- donna will be of great service in any case, not however as a cure for the fissure, but in relaxing the muscles; and the application ought always to be made, even if the opera-