535 BURNS AND SCALDS. Mary intelligent writers on this subject have erred, in entertaining the opinion, that the intensity of the lesion is proportionate to the relative capacity of the agent for heat. The principle is in direct contradiction to facts. Thus, for example, it is proved by ex- perience, that a mass of copper, under like circumstances, will occasion a more severe burn than a mass of iron. Yet iron possesses a greater specific heat than copper, in the ratio of 11 to 9 ; wherefore, according to their hypothesis, the iron should be the more ener- getic of the two, which is not the case. The true explanation of this apparently unaccountable phenomenon, can only be de- duced from the circumstance, that different substances have different powers of conducting heat. And on referring to the ingenious and accurate researches of Richmann and Ingen- hausz, since confirmed by Despretz and others, it will be seen that as regards this physical property, copper stands to iron in the ratio of 8 to 3 >. It is therefore to the density, on the one hand, to the conducting power, and consequent facility of transmission, on the other, that we are to ascribe the variations evinced by diffe- rent substances, in abandoning their heat to the bodies with which they come in contact. Solids, especially the metals, from their superior density, and great conducting power, produce instantaneously deep and extensive burns. The thermometric elevation is, how- ever, of necessity, the most important ele- ment ; hence the burn occasioned by iron, at a dull red heat, is superficial, compared to that, produced by the same metal at incandescence. Liquids being of variable density and tem- peratures, occasion scalds, more or less grave. Thus fixed oils, melted tallow, rich soups, concentrated saline solutions, act with more energy than boiling water ; whilst ether, alco- hol, caoutchoucine, from their great vola- tility, produce, if any, merely superficial scalds. We must, however, hold in mind a circum- stance, which tends to render the action of the former class of agents more violent than that of water, independently of elevated tempera- ture ; namely, their natural tendency to ad- here to the skin, over which the latter merely glides ; for a burn or scald is profound in pro- portion as the contact of the agent producing it is abiding. Since pain is developed under the influence of innervation, it is manifest that that which accompanies an injury from burn will be pro- portional rather to the imperfection or slow- ness of its accomplishment, than to its amount, or the number of parts interested. Hence, the greater the rapidity of the act of disorga- nization, the less does the patient suffer. The remarkable instance related by Chesel- den, of the person who had his arm suddetdy wrenched from the trunk by mechanical vio- 1 See Dcsprctz’s Table in Dr. Urn’s Dictionary of Chemistry, article “ Caloric,” p. 2(>2. lence, and, unconscious of pain, was not aware at first of what had befallen him. confirms the inference just drawn. Dupuytren has fur- nished a somewhat parallel case, where a like apathy was evinced under a hardly less grievous injury. A young man, while walking across a foundry, inadvertently placed his foot in the channel destined to convey away the fused metal. The molten current rushing suddenly' forth, enveloped his limb in part, and he with- drew it bereft of the foot and lower portion of the leg. He expressed himself as having scarcely experienced any pain whatever ; and some time elapsed ere he was conscious of the mutilation to which he had been subjected. Burns are more grave when they occupy surfaces usually protected by dress, and where the epidermis is thin and delicate, as the neck, breast, or abdomen, than when parts habitually in communication with surrounding objects, of which the epidermis is thick and indurated, are concerned. It is a familiar fact, that farriers, blacksmiths, and other artisans, used to rude and laborious occupations, have the cuticle of the palms of the hands so hard and callous, as to enable them to seize ignited metals, and the like, with impunity. Women more frequently fall victims to burns than men ; a circumstance to be as- cribed to the slighter texture of their gar- ments, which are loosely applied to the body, and apt to catch flame. Certain trades may be cited as predisposing conditions to injuries of this kind, as that of blacksmiths, founders, and plumbers. Among the accidental causes may be reck- oned, apoplexy, epilepsy, inebriation, asphyxia, sleep, when in the proximity of fire, and every condition, in short, that tends to deprive man of the use of his intellectual faculties, or to prevent the due exercise of that vigilance necessary towards self-preservation. Of all those enumerated, the state of profound sleep is, perhaps, the most common predisposing condition. In Paris, where the lower classes are obliged to economize fuel, fatal accidents from fire often occur, and chiefly among old women Their body-clothes take fire while partially asphyxiated by the emanations from the burning charcoal contained in their grilles and chaufferettes, which gradually deteriorating the atmosphere of their narrow ill-ventilated chambers, unfit it for the purposes of animal life. Series of pathological effects produced bp heat on organic textures endowed with life.—Writers on surgery are divided as to the number and arrangement of the different degrees of burns. Heister reckoned four ; in the first, there is heat, followed in a short space of time by an eruption of vesicles ; in the second, eruption of vesicles immediately consecutive to the ap- plication of the burning agent; in the third, destruction of the skin, subjacent adipose tissue, and muscles ; in the fourth, destruction extending to the bones. Galliscn adopted 1