ASPHYXIA. 422 scription which is given by Shakspeare of the frightful physiognomy of the Duke Humphrey as physiologically correct, and of others, of its being merely poetically so : “ But see! Ins face is black, and full of blood ; His eye-balls farther out than when he lived, Staring full ghastly like a strangled man ; His hair upreared; his nostrils stretched with strug- gling ; His hands abroad displayed, as one that grasped And tugged for life, and was by strength subdued.” The most remarkable appearances presented in the interior of the body are the following : there is a great accumulation of blood in the lungs, and these organs are sometimes so dis- tended, that they forcibly protrude through the incisions made in the thorax for the pur- pose of exposing them ; the colour of the lungs is dark brown. On opening the trachea its mucous membrane is found injected with dark blood, and the intensity of the injection is greater as we trace the membrane towards the minute ramifications of the bronchia. The heart presents the coronary vein and its radi- cles distended with dark blood, as also its right auricle and ventricle, and the ascending and descending venae cavae, whilst the pulmo- nary veins, and the left auricle and ventricle, contain but a very small quantity of this fluid ; the latter cavities are in general found con- tracted. The viscera are congested with dark venous blood which escapes from them on being cut into, in consequence of its fluidity. The mucous membrane of the alimentary pas- sages is also injected, and the larger papillae, particularly those at the root of the tongue, are prominent. The sinuses and vessels of the brain are gorged with venous blood, and the cerebral substance, on being sliced, exhi- bits more than usually numerous dark red dots : sometimes there is an effusion of serum into the ventricles. These appearances within the head, as well as those described of the countenance, will present more or less variety according to the method by which the asphyxia was induced, and to the length and violence of the struggle before total death occurred. THEORY OF ASPHYXIA. Previously to the discovery of the com- pound nature of the atmosphere, and of the changes produced in the blood by respiration, the several phenomena of asphyxia were ac- counted for on principles purely mechanical. The respiratory movements ceasing, it was supposed that the pulmonic circulation was arrested in consequence of the lungs them- selves presenting an obstacle to the transmis- sion of the blood through them ; in short, that the lungs, being no longer distended by the entrance of the atmospheric air, their air-cells became collapsed, their capillary vessels con- gested, and no blood being transmitted to the left heart, the systemic circulation was thus put a stop to. This theory, supported by Harvey and Haller, maintained its ground until 1788, when Goodwyn published his cele- brated treatise, “ On the Connexion of Life with Respiration,” in which he refuted the opinion of Harvey and Haller, that in asphyx- iated animals a mechanical impediment was offered by the lungs to the transmission of blood, and showed, that after air was once ad- mitted into these organs, it could never again be sufficiently expelled to produce their sup- posed collapse, and that the quantity which remained after the fullest expiration was am- ply sufficient to distend the air-cells, and allow a free circulation of the blood in the vessels of their parietes. He thus overturned the theory of mechanical obstruction, and established another, which held its sway until the time of Bichat. Recognizing the importance of a supply of arterial blood for the due mainte- nance of the circulation, and seeing that when respiration was suspended the venous blood sent to the lungs was transmitted, unaltered in its qualities, to the left heart, Goodwyn sup- posed that this blood ceased to stimulate its cavities ; and in consequence of the left auri- cle and ventricle not being excited by their natural stimulant, arterial blood, they ceased to perform their wonted contractions, and thus the circulation was here primarily arrest- ed. The theory of Goodwyn, as well as of those physiologists who went before him, was grappled with by the master mind of Bichat, and in its turn completely overthrown. Bichat showed, by a series of able experiments per- formed with his accustomed accuracy, that when an animal is asphyxiated, the venous blood is transmitted from the lungs into the left heart; but that, instead of its not stimu- lating this organ, it had the very contrary effect, and was vigorously propelled by the left ventricle into the arteries, and thence into every tissue of the body. He demon- strated this in the following manner. Having adapted a tube, with a stop-cock, to the tra- chea of a dog, and having divided an artery, he closed the stop-cock, and thus prevented the further entrance of air to the lungs. At first the blood issued from the divided artery in a full stream, and was of a bright arterial colour ; but as the oxygen of the contained air in the lungs became exhausted, it gradually lost its arterial hue, acquiring a darker colour until it resembled venous blood : the blood after this continued for some time to bo thrown out with its ordinary force, until, at length, the jet became smaller and weaker, and finally ceased. “ I have seen,” says Bichat, “ a quantity of black blood discharged in this way, more than sufficient to kill the creat ure from haemorrhage, were it not already dead in consequence of its asphyxiated con- dition.” By this and other experiments Bichat showed that when the trachea of an animal was stopped so as completely to ex- clude the air, the venous blood continued to be sent in quantity and with force through the arteries for a time sufficient for it to permeate all the tissues of the organs. The theory of death by asphyxia, which was raised by Bichat