802 COLOBOMA. cipally on transverse shortening of its free edge. Coloboma iridis congenitum.—The following ease and figure, borrowed from Dr. Mackenzie, w ill afford a good idea of this affection :— Fig. 184. “On the 31st of January, 1831, I was re- quested by Mr. Roy to examine the eyes of Boyd Armour, a recruit, in the Barrack Hos- pital, Glasgow. In both eyes of this indivi- dual, the pupil was prolonged, as is repre- sented in the annexed sketch, towards the lower edge of the cornea. This was the con- genital form of the pupils; and though it cer- tainly gave to the countenance a very peculiar and somewhat wild expression, it had not been noticed at the time of enlistment. The vision, as far as could be ascertained, was perfect. Both the natural pupil, and the cleft proceed- ing from it, contracted, on sudden exposure to light; but the cleft slowly, and not so as to close, at least in a moderate light’.” In the instance just described, the fissure was observed to become narrower in approach- ing the ciliary edge of the iris, but in other instances a converse disposition has presented itself. In some cases the fissure has been found to implicate merely the pupillary edge of the iris like an angular notch. Professor Rau of Berne, amongst several cases of colo- boma iridis, has met with three examples of a pecul'ar variety, in which the proper substance of the iris only was involved in the fissure, whilst the uvea remained perfect. Sometimes one eye alone has been affected with coloboma iridis, sometimes both. Stil- ling2 saw a case in which there was this mal- formation in one eye, and in the other a double pupil like a figure of 8. In some families coloboma iridis has been observed to be here- ditary. In none of the cases observed by Walther could anything like the ciliary processes be discerned at the lower extremity of the cleft. In general, Walther found the lower half of the eye less convex than the upper, and ap- parently less developed : he also noticed that the whole eye was in some cases smaller than natural, the cornea flatter, the pigment defi- cient, and the eyeball oscillatory. In some cases a complication with opacity of the lens has been found to exist, but a considerable 1 bond. Med. Gaz. vol. ix. p. 738. London, 1832. IHolsclicr’s hannoveriseben Annalen, vol. i. p. 107. degree of vision still remained, as the light penetrated to the retina through the fissure of the iris, and thence through the zonula lucida by the circumference of the lens. In numerous cases, however, the eyeball has ap- peared quite natural in other respects, and vision good. In congenital coloboma iridis the cleft has usually existed at the lower part of the iris ; cases, however, have been described in which it involved other parts. In one case, Dr. Ammon found on dissec- tion that the coloboma iridis was a part merely of a more extensive fissure, involving both the retina and choroid. Observations on the de- velopment of the eye showr that at a very early period a fissure extends through the retina, choroid, and iris, at the lower part. Coupling this with Dr. Ammon’s observation, we are readily led to agree with Walther, Miiller, and others, that coloboma, when it implicates the lower part of the iris, is owing to an arrestment of development. In those cases, however, in which, as is said, the fissure implicated some other than the lowrer part of the iris, the defect cannot be attributed to this cause, but rather, as Arnold, Seiler, and Rau remark, to original defective formation. Coloboma iridis trauviaticum.—This may oc- cur at any part of the iris, and to any extent. There being usually injury of some other part of the eyeball, the mere fissure of the iris is not the principal part of the case. Dr. Mac- kenzie* figures and mentions shortly a case in which a blow on the eye lacerated the iris across in its whole breadth, and separated part of it from its ciliary attachment. “ Such cases,” Dr. M. remarks, “are always attended with effusion of blood into the eye; so that, till this is absorbed, the state of the iris cannot be seen ; afterwards we find the lens dislocated, the vitreous humour dissolved, the iris tremu- lous, and the retina insensible.” The annexed is a figure of coloboma iridis caused by injury of the eye. In this case a Fig. 185.