CALOMEL. 586 healthy structure. On the other hand, in the inflammation of mucous and synovial sur- faces, its efficacy is by no means so decided ; it is unquestionably useful as a general antiphlogistic, but cannot be depended upon to work out the cure. Again, there are some inflammatory cases in which it is positively injurious, if exhibited in greater quantities than is necessary to evacuate and improve the abdominal secretions. We may adduce as examples, hospital gangrene, phagedenic venereal sores, malignant tumours, and other diseases tending to rapid suppuration or ul- ceration' ; processes for the repair of which the adhesive inflammation is, as Dr. Farre observes, above all things necessary. The utility of calomel may depend also on the specific nature of the inflammation ; thus it is the sine qua non in syphilitic, but prejudicial in gouty iritis. Much also depends on the powers of the constitution; thus it must always be administered with caution to the scrofulous, and in chronic cystitis it may, ac- cording to Brodie, be cautiously tried if the strength is unimpaired and the urine still acid, but not if the patient is effete with age and debility. The diseases of the eye afford a good illustration of these remarks. In iritis, and in inflammation and deposition of lymph between the layers of the cornea, the curative effects of calomel are unquestionable. In gonorrhoeal ophthalmia it no doubt aids in removing the acute stage of the inflammation, but is not to be expected to complete the cure. Lastly in onyx, and strumous ulcera- tion, it is positively injurious, if given so as to affect the system. But when speaking of calomel as a remedy for acute inflammation, it is by no means to be understood as a substitute for blood-letting. The prospect of relief from calomel must never deter the practitioner from bleeding when the pulse and the state of the disease demand it. In such a case the calomel is a secondary agent; it will expedite the cure, shorten convalescence, and may prevent the necessity of a second bleeding, but must not supersede its primary employment. In fact, not only in many cases will the calomel be unable to affect the system unless preceded by bleeding, but there is no small ground for believing, (as some English authors contended thirty years ago, and some foreigners do still,) that mercury accumulated in the system during acute inflammation will but hasten suppuration and ulceration if other anti- phlogistic means be neglected—a fact which used formerly to be but too lamentably evidenced in the treatment of inflamed pri- mary venereal ulcers and bubo5. 1 Mr. Malcolmson, in his paper on hepatitis (Med. Chir. Trans, vol. xxi.), speaks of calomel as decidedly injurious in that disease, after suppuration lias com- menced. 2 There is one modern surgeon, Mr. Babington, who has advanced opinions directly the reverse of those here stated. He says that mercury will depress arterial action with no less certainty than antimony ; that as long as acute inflammation accom- On the other hand the anti-inflammatory virtues of calomel are most happily displayed when acute inflammation of some vital organ is lighted up in a constitution drained of blood, and exhausted by privation or previous disease. When blanched lips, and a rapid feeble pulse forbid more than a very sparing abstraction of blood (if any), it is to calomel, combined with opium, that the practitioner must look for aid. The manner in which calomel is adminis- tered in inflammation is in repeated doses, till the mouth begins to suffer ; and it is then that the disease generally begins to yield. A slight affection of the mouth is all that is desirable. For although we must agree with Dr. Elliot- son that it is better that one patient in three should be violently salivated than that one in three should be lost, yet there are few affec- tions which create so much immediate suffer- ing, or which tend in the future so materially to impair health, comfort, and personal ap- pearance, as violent ptyalism : the surgeon therefore should examine the mouth at every visit, and hold his hand as soon as the calomel begins to tell upon the disease or on the sys- tem. In children, salivation is neither very easily, nor very safely produced ; copious green stools are an equivalent ; and in more than one instance has a fatal enteritis been the consequence of pushing the calomel recklessly after their appearance. The dose, and frequency of its repetition, must be proportioned to the urgency of the case. In exceedingly rapid diseases, such as acute laryngitis, scalds of the glottis through drinking boiling water, puerperal peritonitis, and acute tetanus, ten or twenty grains are sometimes given every hour or two ; although there are many practitioners who believe that it would act quite as soon in more moderate doses. In ordinary acute inflammations, me- ningitis succeeding injuries of the head, iri- tis, abdominal inflammation after strangulated hernia, testitis, erysipelas of the head, and so forth, it is given in doses of from one to five grains at intervals of from one to eight hours. If the patient is an adult, and there is no cerebral inflammation, a fourth or half a grain of opium may be added if it tends to purge ; and this combination of calomel with opium is of singular service when acute inflammation co-exists with great debility; or when the pulse becomes very sharp and rapid after bleedings. A small quantity of antimony is a useful addition when nausea would not be injurious. In inflammations of a more chronic grade, or cases in which it is wished to excite absorption of thickening or lymph,—chronic testitis for instance, it may be given in doses panies a phagedenic sore, mercury will never occasion or aggravate sloughing; that it may be used either with or without bleeding, antimony, &c. quite indif- ferently ; and that it may always be employed in the treatment of sloughing sores when the surface is swelled, and the margin of an arterial red colour. I believe these opinions as to the identity of the opera- tion of bleeding, calomel, and antimony, to be quite opposed to those of most people at the present day.