ANKYLOSIS. 316 older surgeons to produce forcible extension ; one of which has been pictured by Fabricius Hildanus, but many of them are too compli- cated to admit of general application. A simple and well-known contrivance in anky- losis of the elbow-joint, when accompanied as it usually is by flexion, consists in placing a weight in the ball of the hand, which the patient should support as long as he is able. Fabricius Hildanus says, that he frequently found this treatment successful. Where the knee-joint has been flexed and ankylosed, I have sometimes employed a similar treatment, by making a patient sit in one chair with his heel resting on another placed at a convenient distance, while a heavy weight was suspended from the knee by a broad belt passing over the front part of the joint. We have now only to speak of the treat- ment of those cases of ankylosis in which the bones are united by bone or by dense liga- mentous tissue. In the latter case, the con- necting medium may be of sufficient length to allow of a certain degree of motion, and a good false joint is gradually formed ; but this happens rarely. The bones are commonly in close apposition, the ligamentous fibres short and unyielding, and the joint altogether inca- pable of motion. It is sometimes loosely said, that this might have been prevented by com- municating motion during the formation of this species of ankylosis : but those who draw their conclusions from practice will feel but little inclination to try so dangerous an ex- periment. It is true that an ankylosed limb is always awkward, and sometimes not only useless, but an incumbrance. Are we then to make no effort for the removal of this evil? Some of the French surgeons think that we ought, and have adopted a very sum- mary method,—the ablation of the offending member, or, as it is termed, the “ amputation de complaisance,” to which we have in Eng- land no corresponding technicality, There is no doubt but that amputation may be per- formed with propriety when the joint in question is small, as, for instance, in the pha- langeal articulations; but English surgeons will agree in the opinion that we have no right to endanger life for the removal of what is merely an inconvenience, and that, there- fore, the amputation of a limb because of an ankylosed knee or elbow is inadmissible. Let it be added to this, that according to the testimony of Richerand, Pelletan,and Velpeau, the “ amputation de complaisance” has, more frequently than amputation from other causes, a fatal termination. Another method of treating ankylosis of the sort now under consideration has been proposed and carried into effect. I cannot better introduce it than by the following abridgement of a case which has not attracted sufficient attention in this country. A man, who had fallen from the hatchway of a ship into the hold, sustained some injury of the hip-joint, the nature of which does not exactly appear. Seven months after the accident, he sought relief from Dr. Barton of Philadelphia, who gives the following account of his con- dition at that period :— “ He was supported by crutches, having the thigh drawn up nearly to a right angle, with the axis of the pelvis and the knee turned inwards, and projecting over the sound thigh, so that the outside of the foot presented for- ward. There was considerable enlargement round the hip which so much obscured the case, even at this date, as to prevent me from forming any positive opinion as to the real nature of the original injury. From the fixed and immovable condition of the limb it was impossible to ascertain, whether in a straight position there would be shortening, and if any, to what extent. The general feature of the limb bore somewhat the resemblance of that' resulting from a dislocation into the ischiatic notch, yet the position in which the great trochanter stood, in relation to the su- perior anterior spinous process, discouraged such a belief. All things considered, I was rather inclined to the opinion that there had been neither fracture nor luxation, but that the violence of the fall had produced an ex- tensive contusion of the round ligament, and joint, and that disorganization had followed the consequent inflammation. On this point, whatever might have been the nature of the accident, I thought I might feel assured that now all articular movement was gone, and that true ankylosis had taken place.” In this state he was admitted to the Penn- sylvania Hospital, where he remained a year, during which time all ordinary methods were employed for the removal of the ankylosis, but without success. At the end of the year, • Dr. Barton, finding the case hopeless, unless ‘ something extraordinary was attempted for the man’s relief, proposed to make a crucial incision over the great trochanter, to divide the bone transversely through this apophysis and part of the neck, and to procure, if pos- sible, a false joint. “ In this proposition four material points presented themselves for consideration ; viz. the practicability of the operation ; the degree of risk to life consequent thereto ; the proba- bility of being able to arrest ossific reunion ; and the reasonable prospect of benefiting the patient thereby. The arguments I adduced in favour of such an operation were these :— That the anatomy of the part did not present any insurmountable obstacle to it. The fear of cutting into a joint was not to be enter- tained here, since from previous disease, all the characteristics of a joint were gone, syno- vial membrane destroyed, cartilages absorbed, and an amalgamation of the head of the femur with the acetabulum had taken place. That the shock to the vital system would not pro- bably be greater than is frequently endured from accidental injuries and other operations. That if the opinion commonly assigned as the cause of the formation of false joints after fractures be true, such as frequent motion in the broken ends of the bone, a deficiency of