G02 CANCER, ANATOMY OF. affected. When occurring in the form of a tumour, it is sometimes surrounded with a jseudo-capsule consisting of condensed cellu- ar tissue, in some cases of such tenuity that the character of the subjacent substance may be partly distinguished through it. The ex- ternal surface is lobulated. Disseminated masses of colloid structure are met with in the greater and lesser omentum, as an extension of the disease from the stomach ; they vary in size from mere granulations to tumours of moderate size ; two or more occasionally co- alesce into a single mass. The infiltrated form is of most common occurrence in the stomach, and is likewise met with in the omentum. The former viscus retains its natural shape when thus affected, though its cavity is much diminished in size from the occasionally extreme thickening of its walls: when the latter condition is carried to its greatest extent, the organ does not collapse when removed from the abdomen. Colloid growths acquire considerable bulk : there is a formation of this species as large as a cocoa-nut, and connected with the omentum, among the preparations in the collection at King’s College. In the infiltrated state it sometimes extends over upwards of two-thirds of the anterior and posterior surfaces of the stomach, as in Otto’s case ; according to Cruveilhier, in a good proportion of instances of destruction of the entire surface of that viscus, the disease exhibits the present form of structure. Velpeau has seen masses, weighing several pounds, in the extremities. According to Cruveilhier, colloid is the form of cancer most frequently met with in the diseased condition of the bones termed osteo-sarcoma and spina-veutosa : he has, be- sides, observed it in the uterus, ovary (?), at the lower extremity of the rectum, in the caecum, the small intestine, and the omentum. It has, however, appeared to him (and here his experience coincides with that of other observers) to occur most commonly in the stomach, and, like other cancerous structures, to affect, more particularly, the pyloric region. The specimens of this species of carcinoma which have fallen under the notice of Dr. Hodg- kin were all situated in the abdomen, either at- tached to or seated at no great distance from the alimentary canal, and usually in the neighbourhood of the stomach and rectum. This pathologist, however, further informs us that it is not very uncommon in connexion with tendon or bone. He endeavours to ex- plain the predilection the disease appears to affect for the alimentary canal, on the principle that the products of the disturbed nutrition of a particular part are liable to be modified by the structure of the surrounding natural tissues ;—the regular production of mucus on the surface of the digestive tube is thu3 sup- posed to influence the character of the con- tained matter of the cancer. M. Cruveilhier, on the other hand, ascribes the comparative frequency of this form of affection in the stomach to the great tendency of that organ to carcinomatous disease in general. This is a less hypothetical mode of accounting for the fact, and evidently better reconcileable with the occurrence of colloid in parts uncon- nected with the mucous secretions. There is an excellent specimen of the disease in the mamma, referred to by Miiller, in the collec- tion at St. Thomas’s Hospital. Professors Berard, Velpeau, and others, have observed it in the extremities; and it appears to occur with tolerable frequency in the shoulder and upper part of the arm. The museum at Guy’s con- tains a preparation of the disease in the tes- ticle. In describing a specimen of reticular carci- noma (scirrhus), Miiller states that he found in its substance a mass of alveolar colloid as large as a hazel-nut; and adds, that he has more frequently seen this form complicated with simple scirrhus. Such association of these two species of cancer is nevertheless, we apprehend, rare ; no example of it occurs in the museums of the metropolis. It is im- portant that the homogeneous jellylike pulp frequently seen in the interior of scirrhus, and which is nothing but its own substance softened, should not be confounded with true alveolar colloid ; the latter not unfrequently exists in the same tumour with encephaloid. In the description of scirrhus, the compara- tive rarity of the co-existence of several tu- mours in the same subject has been noted ; this is still more marked in the case of colloid. M. Cruveilhier states that it is rare to observe its successive or simultaneous development in a number of organs or parts. Dr. Hodgkin expresses himself nearly in the same tone, but adds, that it does at times invade different lo- calities in the same subject. It may coexist with the two other species of carcinoma in distant organs. In the case of the disease in the stomach alre.ady adverted to, the left ovary presented a solanoid mass, and the cervix uteri was infiltrated with scirrhus. Varieties,—One of the distinguishing attri- butes of this species of cancer is its apparent insusceptibility of assuming such variation of internal arrangement, as to call, in this point of view, for the establishment of varieties: but the properties of the contained matter are not always the same ; instead of being simply jellylike, it may be perfectly transparent and almost white, constituting the alveolar cancer d maticre perlec of M. Cruveilhier. This sub- stance is represented to be tenacious, yet with- out adhesion to the containing cells and easily enucleated ; the contents of each cell resem- bling “ a small pearl of the finest water.” Or the contained material may be opaque, of yellowish hue and tallow-like aspect, with granular fracture and feel, and the chemical constitution of caseum. Under these con- ditions it has been met with in the bones, uterus, vagina, and walls of the urethra, and constitutes the areolar pultaccous cancer of the same pathologist. These modifications are comparatively unimportant, while the fun- damental alveolar character is preserved.