633 CANCER, PATHOLOGY OF. The mortality attributed to cancer in the registers is in all probability below the true mark ; of 163 deaths entered under the head of disease of the genital organs, especially of the womb, a large proportion was in all like- lihood caused by carcinoma ; the same is true, though to a less degree, of fatal cases of organic disease of the intestinal canal and of “ stricture of the rectum and oesophagus” in persons of advanced age. Whether the frequency of cancerous dis- ease is on the increase is a question of con- siderable interest, but one to which we cannot unfortunately furnish any very satis- factory reply, as we have not the means of ascertaining the proportion of the population annually cut off by the disease during a series of years. The only statistical facts we can find bearing on this question are given in the following table showing the ratio of cancer- ous deaths to the total mortality of the metro- polis during the last century. Time- Proportion of Deaths from Cancer in every 1000 deaths. From 1728-57 (30 years) 2-0 1771-80 (10 years) 3-4 1831-35 (5 years) 4.41 • June 31, 1837 to Dec 31, 18382 (18 months) 6-1 From this it would, on first view, appear that the frequency of the disease has been steadily increasing during the last 100 years ; but the real causes of the augmented ratio are more likely to be the decrease of mortality from epidemic diseases, and the greater accu- racy of diagnosis, as respects carcinomatous af- fections. We must wait for correct answers to questions of this high import, until the pre- sent Registration Act has been in operation for a series of years. The influence of season on the mortality of carcinoma is displayed in the following table, drawn up from 285 deaths occurring in the metropolis in 1838. Quarters ending M. F. Totals. March 30 18 73 91 June 30 8 40 48 Sept. 31 11 64 75 Dec. 31 14 57 71 1 These three proportional numbers arc taken from a table calculated b_v Mr. Farr, and given at p. 577 of his 41 Vital Statistics.” J The absolute number of deaths from cancer re- gistered in the metropolis during this period was 470. Hence inclemency of the weather accelerates the death of individuals labouring under carci- noma, as it does in the case of most chronic diseases. This fact is more clearly seen, when the deaths occurring in the two more genial quarters of the year are compared with those which took place in the more inclement. M. F. Totals. Temperate half year. 19 104 123 Cold half year. 32 130 162 (g.) Symptoms.—Were it ascertained that the development of cancer is preceded by a certain number of local or general symptoms, an important step would be made towards its early diagnosis, and hence possibly towards diminishing its fatality. Probably, too, such symptoms do arise ; at least it is hardly pos- sible to conceive that so important a change as the formation of carcinomatous matter can occur in the organism without being preceded by some species of local or general derange- ment. However, whether they really do exist, and of what nature they may be, whether of uniform or variable character and occurrence, remains to be decided by future observation; the vague and random statements of authors on the subject are unentitled to confidence. (a.) Local.—As carcinoma is a new' forma- tion added to the part in which it is deve- loped, it necessarily follows as a general truth, that increase of bulk is produced by its pre- sence to any considerable amount; in other words, it gives rise to tumour. The existence of such tumour is among the most important signs of carcinoma, when coupled with certain properties. Understood in the widest acceptation of the term, tumour is consequently, from the very nature of the disease, never absent: even in cases of scirrhus of the cervix uteri, where the infiltration of a small quantity of the morbid matter may constitute the whole of the disease, an increase of bulk is produced in the affected part. Again in hollow organs, such as the rectum and oesophagus, where the cancerous matter is commonly infiltrated in the walls of the tube, the term tumour is fairly applicable. The apparent absence of swelling, sometimes met with in mammary carcinoma for instance1, arises, as we have already explained, from the atrophous con- dition to which the texture of the organ itself is reduced ; diligent examination in such cases rarely fails to detect the morbid sub- stance in the form of a superadded tumour, or of a mass of the organ increased in size from infiltration. The enlargement may be 1 M. Recamicr relates a case in which a diseased breast, although containing a growth four inches in diameter, was smaller than its healthy fellow.