AMPUTATION. 166 the permanent extension of the remnant of the bone does not ensue. The biceps being unattached to the bone, will, when divided, retract cousiderably, the triceps least of all. These points are impor- tant, and should be borne in mind. There is no point of the humerus at which amputation may not be performed. The place should be regulated by the extent of the disease, and the rule should be to perform the operation as low as it will allow. A knife of middling length, bistouri, saw, and a two tailed retractor will be all that is required for the operation. Circular method.—The patient is placed in a sitting posture, with his arm extended at a right angle from the trunk. The artery being compressed in the same way as in amputation of the fore-arm ; the surgeon standing on the outside of the limb, if it be the right arm—on the inside if the left. The first circular incision divides the skin and adipose membrane down to the fascia. (d, c, orf e, fig. 21). The assistant makes his retraction, and the skin may be turned inside out, or reflected for some way up the arm. The second incision made on a line with the reflected skin is carried clean through all the muscles to the bone. As the biceps will retract more than the other muscles, it may be divided alone, before the other mus- cles are cut. A third incision will divide the fibres attached to the bone, and which have retracted least. The radial nerve, lying to the external or posterior side of the bone and close to it, should be clearly divided in this last incision. The retractor is then applied, and the bone is sawed through in the usual way. The last incision of the muscles should, in general, be three inches higher than that which divided the skin. Some surgeons re- commend a still further detachment of the muscular fibres, to the extent of an inch up the bone, in order to give additional security against denudation afterwards. Fig. 25. Fig. 25. Circular amputation of the fore-arm no. 1, fig. 20); the humerus is seen surrounded btj the mrncles, the arm is extended. The brachial artery should be tied ; it will be readily found on the inner side of the bone, between the biceps and triceps, together with its two satellite veins, and the median nerve. If any of its branches bleed, they should be also tied or twisted. The cicatrix should form a line from front to back; or it may be oblique, and the lips of the wound brought together accordingly. Some surgeons unite by a trans- verse cicatrix. Flap method—with a single flap.—Sabatier recommends the formation of a single flap, when amputation is performed on the hume- rus, above the insertion of the deltoid, on a level with the axilla. He forms a square flap out of the deltoid, by incisions, two longitu- dinal and one transverse. This flap being re- flected back upon the joint, a semicircular incision divides the skin and muscles on the inside of the limb down to the bone, and the bone is sawed across. In this amputation, as there is no room for commanding the artery, either by manual compression against the hu- merus or by the tourniquet, compression should be made on the artery above the clavicle, against the second rib. With two flaps. — (/, e, d, no. 2, fig. 20). This is a favourite method in Germany, hav- ing been put in vogue by Langenbeck and Grsefe, the heads of that sect of surgeons not improperly named Rapidists, who place all the glory of an operation in the rapidity of the performance, and estimate its perfection in the inverse ratio of its duration. The assistant, drawing the skin tightly up, the flaps are formed in the usual way, and may be either lateral, or anterior and pos- terior. They are cut to the length of three or four inches. Fig. 26. Fig. 26. Double flap amputation of the arm just below the insertion of the deltoid: the large vessels and nerves are exposed, on the surface of the internal flap ; the sawed extremity of the bone is seen in the midst of the soft parts on the line of union of the twojbxps. The oval method has been resorted to by Mr. Guthrie, in amputating the humerus as high up as the axilla. The mode of making his in- cisions is the same as that employed by him in his amputation at the shoulder-joint, ex- cept that the angle of the V does not ascend to the acromion.