374 ARM, BEND OF. superficial veins of the arm, by the important branch, “ the vena communicans.” This is not our own inference. Adelmann tells us dis- tinctly, “ Ibi loci vena mediana pulsu vehe- mente sanguinis arteriosi ex vena brachiali (the satellite vein) per dictum ramum conjun- gentem in se irruentis, sacci ad instar est dila- tata.” We thus possess three cases of varicose aneurism of the arm, existing between the deep veins and brachial artery, and twice caused by the lancet. The cause of the dis- ease is of little consequence ; whether it be produced by the lancet, or by shot, the result is almost alike, the symptoms are nearly si- milar, and the disease equally inconvenient or dangerous. Are we not now justified in hazarding the opinion, that it is extremely probable that many of the cases which have been considered aneurisms of the superficial vein and artery of the arm, have in reality occurred between the artery and the deep veins ? In fact, it appears to us almost im- possible for any sharp instrument to open the brachial artery, without injuring at the same time the veins which cover that vessel, more or less ; and in this case, why should not the blood of the artery flow more easily into the adjoining vein than into a vein situated at a greater distance ? We trust that future cases of varicose aneurism will be more carefully examined, as this is the only way of settling these interesting points of surgical patho- logy. We must now add a few words concerning the best operation for the cure of this kind of aneurism. Surgeons entertain very different opinions upon this important matter : some consider all operations unnecessary ; the dis- ease, they argue, does not endanger life ; it is merely an inconvenience : others, on the contrary, “ treat this kind of aneurism in the same way as the false aneurism in its early or more advanced stages, by ligature at the wounded part, or in the middle of the upper arm.” (See Liston, Op. cit.) M. Breschct has taken great pains to show that tying the brachial artery, according to Hunter’s plan, is both dangerous and insufficient: he has brought forward a good many instances of such operations performed by Dupuytren having failed ; for this reason, M. Brescbet is a partisan of the old operation of cutting down to the artery (or sac), and tying it both above and below the part wounded. I entirely agree with M. Brescbet in banishing Hunter’s operation from the treatment of this disease ; but cutting down to the wounded artery, and passing two ligatures around it, requires some consideration. There is an essential differ- ence in operating upon a recent or upon an old varicose aneurism : in the one, the oper- ation may be easy of execution, and happy in its termination ; in the other, it may be most laborious in its performance, and most fatal in its results ; we even doubt whether the same operation is applicable to both cases. We shall venture a few, perhaps, premature opi- nions regarding the best operation for this kind of aneurism, in hopes of soliciting further observations from more experienced pens. In recent cases of varicose aneurism, we be- lieve, a cure may be effected by simply apply- ing one ligature above, but close to the injured part of the brachial artery. I was requested by M. Carron du Villards to see a patient (a woman, aetat. 55), who had been bled by a young student : the artery was opened, and all the symptoms of varicose aneurism existed. I strongly recommended cutting down to the artery close to the small tumour, and securing it with a thin silk ligature. We performed this operation about a fortnight after the accident. The incision was made above and almost upon the small tumour : the operation was very easy ; it gave rise to no bleeding or injury to the veins, and the patient was ra- pidly cured. M. Breschet objects to tying the artery close to the disease, lest inflamma- tion of the vessel cause the ligature to cut through the artery too soon ; but this appears rather a groundless fear. My friend, Prof. Lallemand, of Montpellier, likewise now pur- sues this plan of operating for varicose aneur- ism : he has favoured me with the history of a successful operation performed (in 1836) upon the right-arm of a man, aged 34, who had been bled in the median basilic vein, which caused a varicose aneurism. In old cases we should hardly expect a cure from simply tying the artery immediately above the point of injury : in these cases, if an operation is resorted to, it would be best to make a very careful and prudent dissection of the artery, using the knife as little as possible, and to tic it above and below its wound. Before we describe the muscles of the pos- terior side of this region, we must briefly speak of other parts which partly cover them: we have elsewhere observed that very little fat exists over the olecranon and surrounding points of this region, which is supplied on the other hand with fibro-cellular tissue, and also with a subcutaneous bursa mucosa. The cel- lular tissue is stronger, more fibrous or elastic, opposite the olecranon and inner tuberosity of the humerus, to which it connects the skin, as we have already noticed, than in the other situations or depressions of this surface. When the cellular substance is more delicate, it con- tains a very slight quantity of adipose tissue, is easily inflated with fluid ; which accounts for the elbow swelling with such facility in cases of haemorrhage following divers injuries. This cellular tissue greatly contributes to the free motion of the skin over the olecranon and other bony projections ; under this cellu- lar substance, and upon the most prominent part of the olecranon we find the bursa mucosa, which ought to be inflated, to be well studied; it is generally of a globular form, about the shape and size of the human eye-ball, sur- rounded by cellular tissue, which forms a sort of sheath for it, but from which it can be en- tirely separated by careful dissection. I have mostly found it constitute a single sac, but quite independent of the neighbouring tissues.