483 BLOOD-LETTING. function to perform. Hence it is a useful practical rule to follow, that, whenever in any case of injury, local bleeding is not sufficient to check the accession of fever, general blood- letting ought to be unhesitatingly adopted. If, besides a bruise, the soft parts are wounded, the subsequent haemorrhage often goes far in checking the approach of inflam- mation ; and hence, when recent wounds have bled freely, and when they have not been sub- sequently irritated by dressings and bandages, inflammatory symptoms seldom ensue, nor does any local or general blood-letting become necessary. Leeches, cupping, and scarification, it has been already mentioned, are the different me- thods of local bleeding, and each of these modes of abstracting blood has both its ad- vantages and disadvantages, and is applicable to particular states of disease. Leeches are found to be by far the most eligible mode of local blood-letting in the generality of cases; not only because they pro- cure the necessary quantity of blood from the parts where the application of cupping-glasses would cause great pain and irritation, but also i because, from the great dexterity required to perform the operation of cupping, it is seldom well done, and cannot be commanded in situa- i tions and at times when leeches can easily be procured. In the application of leeches, it is important to be aware that the bleeding from their wounds is never in the ratio of the number applied ; and it is surprising to find three or four leeches bleed as much on one occasion, as at least double the number on another. Usually, when many are applied, the blood flows most freely from a limited number of the wounds, and these continue to bleed long after the bites of the others have ceased. This probably depends on the principal vessels supplying the part on which the leeches are applied being wounded, and those wounds which happen to be made nearest the heart bleeding more than those in the more remote branches. The bleeding, too, from leeches varies much in quantity, not only according to the state of the circulating system generally, but also according to the degree of inflammation or congestion in the part where they are applied. The difference in the bleed- ing from the same number of leeches on the same part at different times, is very remark- able ; the quantity diminishing as the fulness 1 of the vessels is diminished. Leeches bleed very differently at different j seasons and in different states of the atmo- j sphere. We should also bear in mind, when I comparing the effects of cupping and leeches, that advantages are derived from the long- ! continued fomentation of the affected parts to which the leeches have been applied, as well as from the soothing influence of a poultice, i which ought always to be used after the fomen- ; tations. One disadvantage of the use of leeches is the difficulty of always regulating the extent | of the bleeding ; but I have already observed. that the discharge from their bites usually de- pends on the degree of congestion of the ves- sels of the part to which they are applied, and that they seldom bleed more than is requisite. When it becomes desirable to put a stop to the bleeding, this can in most cases be readily effected by simply exposing the surface of the part to the external air, and allowing the blood in the orifices to coagulate. The usual prac- tice of applying compresses and bandages, and heaping them on in proportion to the activity of the bleeding, tends to promote, instead of checking the flow of blood. Early one morning I was sent for to visit a lady who had violently sprained her wrist on the preceding day, and for which she had ap- plied leeches. They had bled freely all the evening, and so profusely during the night, that a variety of styptics, compresses, and bandages were used, but without arresting the haemorrhage. The patient being alarmed, it was expedient to arrest the bleeding, and scarcely had the bandages and compresses been removed, all of w'hich were soaked in blood, and the hand and arm exposed to the cool air, than the flow of blood began to diminish, and in a few minutes was completely stopped. When this simple means is not sufficient, the bleeding from a leech-bite can usually be stopped by applying a small compress not larger than a finger-nail, and consisting of several folds of lint, directly upon the bleed- ing orifice, on which such a degree of pressure is to be made with the point of only one finger as shall be found sufficient to stop the bleed- ing, and this pressure is to be steadily con- tinued until all tendency to bleeding has com- pletely ceased. I have never known this practice to fail, except in a few cases where the haemorrhage arose from the blood wanting its usual coagulating power, and in some chil- dren where from the leeches having been ap- plied to the neck, and where the leeches were of a large size, the necessary degree of pressure could not be employed. In the first class of cases applying vinegar to the w'ound, or touching the orifice with the nitrate of silver produces an immediate coagulation of the blood, with wrhich it mixes, and thus plugs up the wound. This caustic may be in like manner employed in haemorrhages from leech- bites in children; and Sir Charles Bell has, in troublesome cases of this kind, stitched the lips of the wound together with a fine needle and thread, or the needle may be allowed to remain for some hours in the wround, and its thread twisted round it, as is done in making the twisted suture, and thus a firm and unyield- ing compress is formed upon the wound. When leeches cannot be procured, the re- quisite quantity of blood may be obtained by opening with a lancet one or more of the veins contiguous to the injured parts ; and this mode of blood-letting is particularly applicable in in- juries of the extremities, where there are so many veins accessible and sufficiently large. The advantages of applying leeches, which I i 2