716 CATARACT. priety of operating when only one eye is af- fected ; for this circumstance, however, the diff erence as to the focal point of vision, caused by the removal of the lens, affords some ex- planation. If the lens has been removed from one eye, while it remains in the other, the focus of vision becomes very different in the two eyes ; the eye from which the lens has been removed, requiring the use of a convex glass to make up the deficiency, in order to restore its former refracting power. The most common rule of practice has been only to operate in cases of spontaneous cataract after both eyes became affected. It has been al- leged by some1, that the removal of a cataract from one eye prevents the disease in the other; and when it has commenced in the other, has the effect of arresting the progress of the opacity. This has, however, not been confirmed by the observation of others, and we very frequently see one eye affected with cataract for a long period of years without the other becoming affected. In the cataracts of young persons, which are in general easily removed by a slight operation, and particularly in females, where it is often an object to remove the deformity, we conceive there can be little doubt as to the propriety of performing an operation2. After a successful operation in such cases, though the focus of sight may not correspond with that of the other, yet deformity is removed, and the sound eye is much assisted by the vision of the other being restored. But by the proper adaptation of glasses the vision of both may be made to correspond in seeing minute as well as distant objects. As to operating upon elderly persons where one eye only is affected with cataract, the case being somewhat different, requires to be considered in another light. Inflammation being more likely to supervene after an ope- ration on an elderly than a young person, this may affect the other eye, and do mate- rial injury to it. The restored vision, also, not corresponding with that of the sound eye, and the material injury to the general health, which is sometimes occasioned by the after treatment, are reasons which render it a well founded general rule, not to operate upon one eye till the patient has become deprived of useful vision with both. From this last general rule, however, there may be cases of exception ; as where the patient is not very far advanced in life, and where he is anxious to have the cataract re- moved. For, by the continued exclusion of the light from the retina, this nervous expan- sion not only loses its vigour and sensibility, ' Himly, Beer. 2 It may be mentioned as further evidence of the necessity of operating on young persons when the cata- ract exists only in one eye, that if the disease be al- lowed to continue, it is likely to occasion squinting, and to become converted into that form of capsular disease which is considered by all writers on the subject to be so difficult of management. This point has been fully treated by Mr. Middlemore in a paper published in the Med. Gaz. for August 1, 1840. but the individual also loses the power of directing his eye to particular objects. Be- sides, cataract might, and very probably will, affect the other eye of the individual at a subsequent period ; and possibly at such an advanced age, that it would both be extremely inconvenient and hurtful to his general health to perform an operation upon either eye. In such cases, if one eye had been operated on at an earlier period, the patient could not have been reduced to this predicament. 2. When is the proper time for performing an operation ? Regarding this question there is no room either for doubt or difficulty ; and, accord- ingly, it is quite an established rule of prac- tice, never to operate on an eye affected with cataract till the patient has been deprived of all useful vision with the eye affected. Pre- viously to this it would be improper, as the patient might be deprived of the vision he had by the operation being unsuccessful. Any degree of vision, therefore, however little, would be better than the risk of an unsuc- cessful operation ; more especially if the other eye is irrecoverably blind. 3. Shou/d both eyes, when equally affected with cataract, be operated on at one and the same time ; or should one be operated on first, and the other at a subsequent period f Upon this question there has been a con- siderable difference of opinion. Some sur- geons recommend operating on both eyes in all such cases, and whatever operation may be adopted; while others operate on both eyes at once when they operate with the needle ; but on one eye only when they operate by extraction. A third, and more cautious class of operators recommend, that in all cases only one eye should be operated on at once. Probably the middle course, which is adopted by those who operate on both eyes, if the needle is employed, and on one only by extraction, is the best rule which can be followed. But though we conceive that it would be placing the sight of the patient in unnecessary hazard to perform extraction on both eyes at the same time, which would not in general be the case when operations are performed with a needle, yet there may be cases in which it would be better to operate only on one at a time. As for example, in an individual of an inflammatory diathesis, which not having been anticipated, might be discovered too late for saving even one of his eyes ; whereas, if one only had been operated on at first, its loss would lead the surgeon to the most effectual precautionary measures against inflammation before operating on the second. In cases of the lower orders, too, when not treated in a public hospital, the individuals are liable to the injurious con- sequences of mismanagement, and the em- ployment of improper stimuli over which the medical attendant has little control: it would be better to operate only upon one eye than