295 ANKLE. Fig. 98. Fig. 98 represents the anatomy of the posterior part of the ankle region, a, os calcis; b, the tendo A chillis at its narrowest part, where it should always he divided ; c, external malleolus; d, internal malleolus ; e, tibia ; f fibula ; g, the peroneus longus muscle ; h, its ten- don, exposed by cutting off a portion of the aponeu- rosis ; i, the external or posterior saphena vein and nerve behind it; j, flexor digitorum pedis ; k, its tendon in its sheath; l, tendon of the tibialis posticus muscle ; to, the flexor longus pollicis pedis, covered in part by the posterior tibial nerve and vessels ; n, pos- terior tibial nerve, with an anterior division passing above the main trunk; o, the posterior tibial artery partly covered by its two veins; p p, posterior tibial veins. The posterior projection is formed entirely by the tendo Achillis and adipose tissue; the narrowest part of this eminence is at about one inch from the top of the poste- rior extremity of the os calcis ; it is here also that the rupture of this tendon takes place, and where the surgeon ought al- ways to divide it for the cure of club-foot. This tendon presents a slight curve, which is directed towards the heel. During contrac- tion of the gastrocnemii muscles this slight concavity somewhat disappears; in fact, this projection changes its form at every motion of the ankle ; in the perpendicular posture of the leg, the tendo Achillis stands out from the tibia so as to increase the depth of the hollow spaces on each side of it,—when the knee is forcibly bent forwards upon the foot, the posterior projection is much diminished by the tendon lying close upon the deep- seated parts of this region. The internal malleole forms the inner and lateral projection of the ankle; its broadest part measures about one inch and a half, and is most promi- nent at its lowest part, where it presents a convex and regular border, bounded below, in all its extent, by a depression which may very appropriately be termed the submalleolar de- pression. The posterior border of this pro- tuberance is rather acute to the touch, and forms the edge of the groove through which the tendon of the posterior tibial muscle passes; when this muscle acts, the tendon rises above the edge of the tibia, and may be followed by the eye an inch above and below the lower extremity of the bone. The exter- nal malleole, which forms the outer and late- ral eminence, is the most prominent of the re- gion ; its shape is more irregular than that of the opposite malleole, is more posterior than it, and descends lower, giving in this way considerable strength to the joint by wedging in the astragalus. The posterior and inferior extremity of this bone displays a small pro- jection which hides the tendons of the pero- neal muscles, which during muscular contrac- tion rise much above the level of the fibula. Immediately below and anteriorly is a constantly well marked depression, which is bounded above by the extremity of the fibula, below by the extensor digitorum brevis, out- wardly by the tendons of the peroneal mus- cles, which are made very apparent by putting their muscles into action, and inwardly by the peroneus tertius ; this hollow corresponds to the space between the astragalus and os calcis. The external, or small saphena vein, with its nerve, generally crosses the external malleole obliquely from behind forwards, and passes over the depression above described. Two other depressions are observed between the tendo Achillis and malleoles ; in fact, these bony eminences may be considered as the cause of all the depressions which we observe here ; they take off much from the oval form of the limb, and give great cast to the region ; they are exceedingly varied in their size and incli- nation, and determine more than any other part, the beauty of the ankle. The outer hol- low is the deepest, owing to the greater or more direct projection of the corresponding malleole. The external saphena vein and nerve sometimes reach the upper part of this exca- vated surface. The internal depression be- tween the tibia and tendo Achillis, although less deep, is of greater importance to the surgeon, on account of the posterior tibial vessels passing through this hollow', and upon which he may be called to operate; the artery may generally be felt pulsating in about the middle of this space. The outward forms we have endeavoured to describe, are beautifully represented in many of the great master- pieces of Grecian art. The Knife-grinder or Slave, the two Wrestlers in the Tribune of' Florence, the Dying Gladiator of the Capitol, the Nile and Laocoon of the Vatican, the