FRACTURE. 215 When the surfaces of a transverse fracture of a long bone have been moved along one another, without entirely ceasing to be in apposition, as when the centre of one ap- proaches an edge of the other, the displace- ment is said to be lateral, or according to the diameter. Of course, also, some lateral dis- placement always attends fractures with short- ening. Rotatory displacement exists when one of the fragments is made, by the weight, of the limb, the action of muscles, or any other cause, partially to revolve, so that the corresponding points of the circumference of the fragments no longer lie opposite one another. In cases liable to this displacement, great attention should be given to prevent the consolidation of the fracture with the very inconvenient deformity it would occasion. I have known this deformity to arise in a fracture of the upper part of the femur, after the supposed cure, by the weight of the limb constantly acting on the imperfectly consolidated callus, so that eventually, while the patient lay in bed fairly on the back, the injured limb rested on the outside of the knee and outer edge of the foot. When the fragments form an angle with each other, the displacement is said to be according to their direction, or angular. This deformity may be an immediate effect of the cause of the fracture ; or it may be caused by the action of the muscles which lie behind or beneath the angle ; or, as not unfrequently happens, it may be occasioned by the plane on which the fractured limb rests not being judiciously disposed, so as to maintain each fragment at a proper elevation. Suppose a fracture of both bones of the leg about its middle, if the heel is not sufficiently sup- ported, the limb resting on its posterior sur- face, the upper and lower fragments will form an angle, salient anteriorly ; if, on the con- trary, the heel is too much elevated, an angular displacement will be the result, the angle being salient backwards. It frequently happens, that more than one, sometimes that all, of these displacements are met with in the same fracture : thus, in a fracture of the femur a little below the lesser trochanter, the action of the biceps, &c. draw- ing the lower fragment upwards, inwards, and backwards, will give rise to a longitudinal dis- placement, accompanied, of necessity, with that in the direction of the diameter ; the psoas and iliacus interims muscles will draw forwards the lower end of the upper frag- ment, and thus cause an angular deformity, while the limb, gravitating till it comes to lie on its outside, rotates the inferior fragment, producing the displacement according to the circumference. Occasionally there exists no sensible displacement; as, in some incomplete fractures, in those where the bone is merely fissured, and in some impacted fractures, and, tions. but the general expression of them is somewhat too theoretical and partial, as will appear from the study of particular fractures. lastly, where one bone of a part being broken, an adjacent bone acts as a splint, and thus ren- ders the displacement inappreciable. Trans- verse fractures, in situations where the bone is thick, as near the head of the tibia, and in which the periosteum has not suffered much, are accompanied with inconsiderable defor- mity. Varieties relating to the line or surface of fractures.—We have already hinted at some of these ; but it is necessary to remark, con- cerning long bones, that these fractures differ according to the direction in which the rup- ture of the bony tissue takes place ; thus, we may have transverse, oblique, and longi- tudinal fractures. The transverse are much less common than oblique fractures. They occasionally occur at all periods of life in the spongy tissue of the extremities of bones ; very rarely in the compact tissue of the shaft, except in early life, when they are much more frequent than in the adult, or in old age. They are more easily managed than oblique or longitudinal fractures, and admit of cure, with little or no deformity. Oblique fractures are by much the most common. They are met with of every degree of obliquity, from that approaching to trans- verse to one approaching to longitudinal. The oblique surfaces commonly glide with ease on one another under the influence of any external force, or in obedience to muscles drawing the lower fragment upwards. Hence, in this kind of fracture, it is frequently very difficult to maintain the fragments in just ap- position, and to prevent, during the consolida- tion of the fracture, a certain degree of shorten- Figs. 277.