FISTULA, INTESTINAL. 205 process of spontaneous cure, the diminished ! capacity of the bowel, and the angular form which it assumes, tend, in most instances, to divert the whole of the intestinal contents from their natural course, and to produce ! exhaustion from inanition, when the opening is high in the canal; or permanent fistula, when it is seated lower. But when such extensive wounds are healed by direct union of their edges, from the use of the suture, these evils are avoided. The uninterrupted form of suture is preferred by Mr. Travers, and its use is sanctioned by a considerable weight of authority and practice. The two cases by Travers and Glandorpius, to which we have before referred, exhibit the successful result of this mode of treatment. (See Wounds.) When the wounded and protruded intestine is gangrenous from being strictured by the parietal wound, suture is useless. If in this case the wound in the intestine is not large enough to allow of the free evacuation of the canal it must be dilated ; and if the stricture still offer resistance to the exit of fecal mat- ters, it must be released by slight incision. The intestine may then be left to slough within the edges of the parietal wound ; no ligature through the mesentery being requi- site to prevent it being retracted within the abdomen, or removed from the vicinity of the external wound. Having now briefly described the treatment applicable to the early stage of some of the varieties of intestinal fistula, we proceed to notice the indications of treatment in its more advanced stages. The two principal indications to be fulfilled in most cases, are to remove the obstruction caused by the projecting ridge or valve, and to close the external wound. Besides these, there are some minor indications which are often important, and even essential to be ful- filled. We shall consider them, and the means by which they may be accomplished, in the following order :— 1. To diminish or remove the obstruction from the projecting ridge or valve. 2. To support nutrition. 3. To solicit the natural action of the bowels. 4. To prevent or relieve prolapse. 5. To prevent premature closure of the external wound, or to obviate the evils result- ing from it. 6. To close the external wound. 7. To palliate the evils of fistula when it cannot be cured. 1. To diminish or remove the obstruction from the projecting valve or ridge.—The means by which this object may entirely, or in part, be accomplished, are, diet, external pressure, direct pressure on the projecting part, and surgical operation. Diet.—It has been already shown, that the intestinal contents, in passing over the pro- jecting ridge have a tendency gradually to dimi- nish its prominence, and to push it towards the lower opening of the intestine. Guided by this observation, Scarpa1, in accordance with the views of Louis, and in opposition to those of La Peyronie, who adopted a rigid diet, under the hope of speedily closing the external wound, recommended that the pa- tient should be nourished by an abundant quantity of alimentary matter of good quality, and of easy digestion, in order that the ali- mentary canal might be distended at the in- jured part, and sufficiently dilated to allow of its functions being well performed before the abnormal opening closed. Scarpa further advised the use of such means as are calcu- lated to accelerate the course of the feculent matter through the canal, as clysters fre- quently repeated, and mild purgatives at inter- vals. The latter suggestion must not, how- ever, be adopted without some restrictions ; for, in many instances, the peristaltic action is already preternaturally excited; in which state, the treatment recommended by this distinguished surgeon might be injurious. When the opening is situated at the upper part of the alimentary canal, the accelerated transit of alimentary matters is sometimes so great as to interfere with nutrition, and to require the use of such remedies as are calcu- lated to retard their progress. External pressure.—Pressure applied to the external opening, so as more or less perfectly to prevent the escape of the intestinal con- tents, may sometimes be beneficially employed in causing the alimentary matters to press with greater force upon the projecting ridge, and thereby to aid in diminishing the obstruc- tion which it causes. But in thus employing pressure as a remedial agent, great caution is required. In the early stage, before the adhe- sions are fully organized, it may give rise to feculent effusion in the peritoneum, and, at any period, unless its effects be carefully watched, serious intestinal obstruction might be produced. Direct pressure upon the projecting ridge.— Desault2 attempted to remove the obstruc- tion by introducing into the two ends of the bowel long tents, so as to dilate the lower portion of intestine, and to facilitate the pas- sage of feces. In this way he tried to efface the angular projection, and to cause the two ends of intestine so far to correspond that the alimentary matters might find a passage from the superior to the inferior opening. He placed also a plug of linen in the external aperture to prevent the escape of fecal mat- ters, and assisted the treatment by laxatives and clysters. When success attended the plan, it was first indicated by the escape from the anus of air, and then of feces ; and as the latter increased, the external wound con- tracted. Desault adopted the practice in the case of Francis Vialter, a sailor, who was wounded in the abdomen by the bursting of a bomb. The wound was situated on the right side, and extended from two inches ' Op. cit. pp. 328. 331. '* Diet. <lc Me<l. et de Cliir. Prat. t. iii. p. 145.