AMPUTATION. 179 sorted to by Mr. Smith, may also in certain circumstances be preferable to either the cir- cular or the single flap method ; for instance, where the soft parts on the back of the leg are so damaged that a single flap of the re- quired length to cover the condyles com- pletely cannot be obtained from them. The oval method has also been proposed ; but this as well as the flap method should merely be considered as modifications to be kept in reserve, and only to be had recourse to in particular cases. THE THIGH. The muscles of the thigh, like those of the arm, may be arranged into three classes also: the muscles that connect it with the trunk ; those that stretch along it, without attach- ment, and are inserted into the bones of the leg ; and those that cover and are attached to it. The form of the limb is somewhat coni- cal, owing to the gradual diminution of the mass of the soft parts, from the trunk to the knee. Possibly all the advantages of amputating at the knee-joint might be secured, and the objections obviated, by resecting the condyles in the spongy head of the bone, thus convert- ing it into an amputation in the continuity, at the lowest possible point of the bone. The muscles, as regards their retractility, may be arranged into two layers, a superficial, and a deep-seated one. The great length of the superficial muscles, and their freedom from attachment between the two points of their origin from the pelvis and insertion into the bones of the leg, favour their retractility in the highest degree. It will be obvious, therefore, that the lower down the limb the superficial muscles are divided, the greater will be their retraction. If then, in amputa- ting the lower third of the thigh, we are to begin our circular incision four fingers’ breadth below the point at which the bone is to be sawed, the application of the same rule in am- putating at the upper part of the limb must rest upon a different principle. If the greater retractility of the superficial muscles, when divided at the lower part of the limb, requires the space of four fingers’ breadth between the first section of the integuments and that of the bone, the greater bulk and depth of soft parts, and the consequently greater difficulty of pro- perly confronting them in order to their re- union, will also render it necessary above. The principle, therefore, that regulates circu- lar amputation, viz., to cut the layers in suc- cession from the skin to the bone, each at a higher point than that of the layer last cut, and the bone itself highest of all, is specially applicable in amputation of the thigh. The retraction of the muscles will also be augmen- ted, for those muscles which may, from the position of the limb, be thrown on the stretch during the performance of the amputation. When the stump is finally healed, this greater ower of retraction in the superficial muscles as a direct influence on the position of the cicatrix, which is drawn inwards and back- wards by the more powerful adductor muscles. As there is no place of election for ampu- tating the thigh, the rule of preserving as much as the disease or injury has spared, and of amputating as low down as possible, remains in full force. The danger of the operation in these cases, diminishes in pro- portion to the smallness of volume of the soft parts. AMPUTATION OF THE THIGH. Circular method.—The patient being placed on the edge of a bed, or on a table, the assistants, to the number of four or five are disposed in such a manner as to support the head, pelvis, and the sound limb ; one takes charge of the leg to be amputated, sup- porting it on his knee, or a low stool, ac- cording to circumstances ; another stops the circulation in the femoral artery, either with his fingers or a tourniquet. It is unneces- sary to repeat the motives mentioned in the first part of this article for preferring, ex- cept under particular circumstances, the in- telligent pressure of the fingers. The point of resistance against which the artery should be pressed is the pubic bone, where the vessel passes over it. Whenever the tourniquet is employed, it should be placed as high up the limb as possible. The instruments are placed in a tray within the surgeon’s reach, or they may be handed to him according as they are required by an assistant. The thigh being grasped firmly above the point where the incision is to be made, the skin and muscles are drawn upwards, and thus rendered tense and steady. The surgeon, standing on the outside of the limb, carries the knife to the inside of the thigh, the handle firmly grasped in the right hand, the point directed towards himself, and then at one sweep round the limb, beginning the cut with the part of the blade next the handle, divides the skin and adipose tissue down to the fascia. The incision penetrating beyond the fascia, is not a matter of importance, but it ought to divide the adipose tissue down to the fascia. The skin and adipose tissue are then retracted by the assistant, and if any bands oppose their ascent they are to be cut. Some surgeons, however, still adhere to the old plan of dis- secting the skin up to the extent of an inch or more, and then retracting it, before they begin the section of the muscles, a plan which is more especially eligible when the amputa- tion is performed in the upper and thicker portion of the limb. Another circular incision, made at the line to which the skin is retracted, divides the superficial muscles; these being retracted in their turn, the deep-seated layer is exposed, and cut by a third circular sweep of the knife. A two-tailed linen retractor is next applied ; the tails are crossed upon the cut surfaces, above the bone, the muscular fibres still ad- hering to the bone are cleanly cut, and the