EAR, AND HEARING, DISEASES OF. S3 free entrance of the air at first, but that was readily overcome, and then the air entered freely. After the air-douche the hearing distance of both ears was about two feet and a half. Wednesday, 6th. — Right ear, two feet eleven inches ; left ear, two feet five inches. Right ear treated. Friday, 8th.—Does not hear so well to-day, but does not complain of ear-ache. Monday, 11th.—Right ear, one foot five inches ; left ear, one foot. Applied the air-douche to both sides. After the air-douche, the hearing distance of the right ear was found raised to two feet and a half; of the left ear, to one foot eight inches. Tuesday, 12th.—Right ear, two feet and a half; left ear, two feet. Left ear treated. During the injection of the air felt a sudden pain in the situation of the mastoid cells. Wednesday, 20th.—Right ear, one foot four inches ; left ear, only seven inches. Air-douche applied to the left ear: great gurgling. Thursday, 21st.—Right,ear, one foot; left ear, one foot nine inches. Air-douche applied to the left ear to-day again, the right nostril being too tender to allow the catheter to pass. During the appli- cation of the air-douche felt a sudden pain, as on Tuesday, the 12th. After the air-douche, the vapour of acetic ether diffused in air was allowed to flow gently into the tympanum. After this treatment by the air-douche and ethereal vapours, the hearing distance of the left ear was two feet and a half. Monday, 25th.—Right ear, four feet one inch ; left ear, two feet seven inches. Right nostril still too tender to admit of the introduction of the catheter. Left ear treated by the air-douche and ethereal vapours. After this treatment the hearing distance was three feet four inches. Tuesday, 26th.—Right ear, three feet seven inches ; left ear, one foot eight inches. Left nostril so tender as not to allow of catheterism to-day. The tonsils and uvula red and swollen. The mucous membrane of the nose also red and swollen. To apply a leech within each nostril, and to take a dose of jalap and rhubarb. Wednesday, 3rd April.—Right ear, one foot nine inches ; left ear, two feet. Left ear treated. Monday, 8th.—Right ear, two feet three inches ; left ear, three feet six inches. Right ear treated.—After the treatment, heard the watch at the distance of six feet. Wednesday, 10th.—Right ear, seven feet three inches; left ear, three feet four inches. Left nostril too sensitive to allow the pas- sage of the catheter. Right ear treated by the air-douche and the ethereal vapours. Friday, 12th.—Right ear, seven feet and a half; left ear, one foot and a quarter. VOL. II. Left ear treated. A prickling sensation felt in the ear from the ethereal vapours. Has heard yesterday and to-day, occasion- ally, sounds like the beating of a hammer. Monday, 15th.—Right ear, seven feet six inches ; left ear, four feet ten inches. Has not heard the beating since. Right ear treated. Friday, 10th May.—Has been in the coun- try since last report. Right ear, nine feet two inches; left ear, seven feet five inches. The hearing having improved so much of itself while in the country, I thought it advi- sable not to pursue the local treatment any farther, but to wait and see what the powers of nature would do. Remarks.—The scrofulous diathesis, with an unhealthy state of the tegumentary system in general, evident in this patient, was a great obstacle to permanent improvement. The disease of the ear, which was called into existence by an exanthema, appeared to be confined to the middle ear, the mucous mem- brane of which was in a state of chronic ca- tarrhal inflammation, alternately calming down and becoming aggravated. All that the air- douche appeared to do, when applied by M. Deleau, as well as when applied by myself, was to effect the dispersion of the accumulated mucus, and so improve the hearing for a time. The affected membrane, however, not being at the same time restored to a healthy action, the mucus v'as always re-accumulating, hence the constant tendency to relapse, and the comparatively small progress made by the treatment above recorded, until the mem- brane lining the tympanum w'as directly acted on by the vapours of acetic ether. After this the improvement was more striking than before. A point worthy of notice w'as the improve- ment in the hearing effected by forcible expi- ration with the nose and mouth closed. In the following case, very considerable im- provement was immediately effected in this way. Case III. Master E. F. set. about 14. Hears the watch at the distance of nine inches on either side. The deafness has been occasional in occurrence for some time and varied in de- gree. Has had sore-throat lately, but is now better. The tonsils are somewhat enlarged, and the uvula long. A rather too copious secretion of wax, which appears at the very entrance of the auditory passages, but does not stop them up. On making the patient expire forcibly with the nose and mouth closed, the hearing dis- tance was raised in the right side to four feet nine inches, and on the left side to five feet seven inches. Case IV. Some affection of the auditory pas- sages. Opacity of the left membrana tym- pani. Clogged state of the tympanic cavities from accumulated mucus. Eustachian tubes pervious. Master C. D., betwixt 12 and 13 years of D