BURNS AND SCALDS. 540 surface; at first inorganic, but promptly be- coming vitalized. Minute conical granulations spring up, the result of cellular development. These vascular contractile vegetations secrete pus ; are rapidly destroyed by ulcerative ab- sorption, and as rapidly reproduced. They subsequently become obliterated and trans- formed into a corrugated tissue, somewhat analogous to true skin ; for no sooner does the cicatrizing pellicle find a point of support on the vascular granules, than it extends from one edge to the other to form this condensed and contracted membrane. Meanwhile the secretion of pus, at first copious, becomes less and less, and is at length suppressed altoge- ther. Thus is generated a new cutaneous investment, resembling although not identical with the original structure. The derma is more dense, less areolar, less supple, less vas- cular, less papillary than natural. The epi- derm is restored with its several layers, a fact ascertained by dissection of negro subjects. But, as Dr. Donnellan justly observes, the shade of colour is altered, so that even among lair people the cicatrices may be always dis- tinguished by their white, pearly, dry, smooth, and glistening surface ; the organs of exha- lation, namely the sudoriferous or hydro- pherous canals, the organs of inhalation, and the secreting apparatus of the pigment, being imperfectly developed or absent. The author just mentioned, states, that besides these anatomical differences, the acci- dental integument is more liable to ulcera- tion than its predecessor. It is prone to injury from the slightest cause, and is the seat of various pathological changes. On this account the patient is liable to continual re- lapses during the progress of cure. His suf- ferings are often prolonged by the sudden rupture of an extent of cicatrix, the forma- tion of which had occupied several months. It is true, indeed, these excoriations are only superficial, the basis is not destroyed ; and it is remarkable how soon a new protecting envelope is supplied. This facility of re- newal is an attribute of that species of vege- tative life, which M. Breschet1 has shown to be inherent in the epidermis. Numerous instances are on record where the cicatrix has been absorbed at periodical intervals; coinciding, for example, with the sexual eva- cuation, and, by discharging blood, acting vicariously for the uterus. Even during the suppurative stage, an evident change has been observed at the menstrual epoch, the surface of the sore becoming turgid, and emitting puro-sanguineous fluid. Some deformity is the necessary sequence of this degree of burn. The bridles of skin and the depressions along the scar, are more irregular and profound than after the third degree. And even under the most favourable circumstances, the recent integument never has an extent equivalent to the original skin. The part is stiff, and constrained in its move- ments. 1 Op. cit. The fifth degree differs from the foregoing, only in so far as a greater number of parts are involved; the lesion extending to aponeu- roses, muscles, tendons, vessels, nerves, as far as the bone. The symptoms referrible to sensibility and motion, vary according to the parts implicated ; hence the slight, or lanci- nating, or neuralgic pain ; the numbness or insensibility of the extremities; the partial or total abolition of motive power. The burnt surface is hard and stiff like a piece of shell: on attempting to move it, we find it firmly adherent to the parts beneath. Violent con- stitutional disturbance is developed about the fourth or fifth day. The time at which the eschar comes away, varies according to the degree of vitality wherewith the respective tissues are severally endued. In the first place, towards the fifteenth day, the skin and cellular tissue are thrown off; next the ves- sels and nerves; lastly, after a lapse of weeks, or even months, the exfoliation of tendons and bone. The consecutive ulcer is deep and extensive. Cicatrization at length takes place. It is always attended with inconveniences more or less grave. These have been classed under four different heads ; namely, adhesions, de- formities, mutilations, and functional lesions. By adhesions is meant vicious union of the cicatrix with neighbouring parts, impeding motion. This is best understood from know- ing the part at the expense of which they are formed. Thus, for instance, suppose the ele- ments of a cicatrix furnished by an aponeu- rosis, a tendon, or bone, then the new cellular tissue being neither extensile nor elastic, pre- vents the recent integument from moving on the parts beneath. The deformities, or changes of relations be- tween parts, are induced by the contraction of a cicatrix, by the coalition of contiguous surfaces, by the lesion of tendons or destruc- tion of muscles, and finally, by the cessation of muscular antagonism from division of a nerve. The mutilations arc either primary or secon- dary. The former result from the immediate destruction of every thing intermediate be- tween the skin and bone, forming the patho- gnomonic sign of thv fifth degree ; the latter, from the violence of inflammatory reaction, or the supervention of gangrene. The functional lesions are referrible to the changes above enumerated. Thus faulty ad- hesions will circumscribe the range of volun- tary motion ; deformity will induce a variety of affections ; and mutilation determine the privation of unctions, for the exercise of which the lost organ was destined. (Don- nellan.) It is by no means easy to distinguish im- mediately after the infliction of the injury, between the present and former degrees ; because it is only by successive stages that the characteristic signs are developed. The depth and solidity of the eschar, together with the interruption in the functions ot