EMPHYSEMA. 76 ture of the cellular membrane of the eyelids facilitated the infiltration of air. A similar oc- currence has been noticed in cases cf external wound communicating with the lachrymal passages. 2. Solutions of continuity in the frontal sinuses, whether caused by fracture or organic disease, are occasionally followed by infiltration of air ; and, as might be anticipated, similar lesions of the walls of the nares have some- times been similarly attended. The emphy- sematous swelling does not always appear at the moment the fracture or perforation occur (probably on account of their being at first unattended with rupture of the mucous inves- titure of the bones), but is eventually caused by any action (such as blowing the nose or sneezing) which by forcing the air violently against the now unsupported membrane, may effect its laceration. In such cases epistaxis does not commonly occur immediately on the receipt of the injury. Dupuytren relates a case in which rupture of the pituitary mem- brane, combined with diastasis of the lateral nasal cartilage and nasal bone, led to emphy- sema. Emphysema of the present description is not a very uncommon sequence of pugi- listic injuries in the neighbourhood of the eyes. In some instances the walls of the orbit suffer, and in these the subconjunctival cellular membrane may become infiltrated with air. The appearance of an emphysematous swelling in the neighbourhood of the orbits will occasionally facilitate the diagnosis of injuries about the base of the skull. A man was brought to the Hotel-Dieu in a comatose state, with paralysis of movement and sensa- tion ; no external lesion being discoverable, he was placed in a medical ward. M. Meniere, observing that there was trismus, closed the patient’s nostrils firmly, in order to ascertain if the tetanic contraction were suf- ficiently strong to resist his struggles for breath. The mouth remained closed, but on the patient’s making a violent effort at expiration, an emphysematous tumour suddenly formed on the left upper eyelid. This unexpected occurrence drew attention to the state of that part, and by careful examination a tri- fling abrasion of the skin and a yellowish tinge, indicative of disappearing ecchymosis, were detected there : M. Meniere, in con- sequence, diagnosticated a fracture of the roof of the nares and of the anterior part of the base of the skull; on which supposition the escape of air into the eyelid, as well as the cerebral symptoms, became easily intelligible. By inquiries of the patient’s friends it was learned, that he had twelve days before been stunned by a violent poke in the face with an umbrella. He died the morning after ad- mission : a fracture of the roof of the orbit communicating with the ethmoid cells was discovered ; the dura mater was separated from the bone round the fracture, but not torn ; there was also a lacerated wound of the anterior lobe of the brain, eight lines deep. 3. Carious destruction of the mastoid pro- cess, opening a communication between the mastoid cells and the cellular membrane of the scalp, has been known to lead to emphy- sematous infiltration of the latter part (Lloyd). Fracture of this process would under some conditions be probably followed by the same occurrence. 4. The operation of injecting air into the Eustachian tube has, in certain instances, been attended with the formation of emphysema- tous swelling about the auricle and lateral parts of the neck. The accident in all pro- bability arose from clumsy and forcible intro- duction of the necessary instrument into the Eustachian tube, whereby rupture of the mucous lining of the latter was effected. This species of emphysema might in truth be classified with the artificial variety *. 5. Solutions of continuity in the larynx and trachea are readily followed by emphysema. The air passing along the interior of those pas- sages during inspiration and expiration escapes through the accidental opening, and makes its way, during the latter act more particu- larly, into the adjoining cellular tissue ; and as the cause producing the diffusion of air is constantly in action, the emphysematous swel- ling may very rapidly spread over a con- siderable part of the body. Of this Palfyn 3 narrates the following example : An indivi- dual, intending to destroy himself, let off a pistol in the front of the neck ; the ball made a ragged wound in the integuments and upper rings of the trachea, capable of admit- ting the point of the finger. Emphysema in- stantly came on, and spread almost over the entire body. A similar case is recorded by Garengeot3. Very recently, too, Mr. Bar- rett has described an emphysematous swelling of considerable extent produced by division of the thyroid cartilage with a penknife. In military practice this mode of causation of the disorder would appear to be very commonly met with, for Hennen affirms that he has more frequently observed emphysema as a conse- quence of wounds of the larynx and trachea, than of the lungs themselves. It may be observed here that it is advisa- ble, in performing tracheotomy, not to close the wound immediately after its termination, even when it is perfectly warrantable to do so in respect of the cause and event of the operation, (for instance after the successful removal of a foreign body), lest emphysema should be induced. Dupuytren was in the habit of waiting in these cases until the cellu- lar membrane adjoining the edges of the opening had been rendered impervious by 1 It seems not impossible that in the notorious case in which death followed this operation, the fatal event may have been caused by the forcible injection of air, through the abraded mucous membrane, into the cir- culating system. 3 Anat. Chirurg. t. i. p. 171. 3 Traite des Oper. Chir. vol. ii. p. 454. 2nd ed.