428 ASPHYXIA. jured, were placed in vessels containing water deprived of air. The frogs in which the ac- tion of the heart and the circulation con- tinued, always survived the others a consider- able period, and sometimes above twenty-four hours. Similar results were obtained with toads and salamanders. Hence Dr. Edwards concludes, that the circulation, even of venous blood, is favourable to the action of the ner- vous and muscular systems, though incapa- ble of maintaining life beyond a very limited period. Lest it might be presumed that the water, in which the animals were immersed in these latter experiments, exerted a deleterious in- fluence oil their nervous and muscular sys- tems, preventing the venous blood from pro- longing life so much as it would have done in a less noxious medium, Dr. Edwards per- formed the following experiment. He strangled six frogs, by tying very tight- ly, with a packthread round the neck, a piece of bladder fitted very closely to the head, so as to exclude the air ; the ligature itself being sufficiently tight to effect this. At first the frogs were paralysed; but they afterwards to a great degree recovered, and lived from one to five days ; while the same number in water were dead in ten or twelve hours. The same experiment on salamanders was attended with similar results, and one of these animals lived twelve days, until its head became gangrenous from the effects of the ligature. The marked difference also which exists in the duration of life in animals strangled, and in those immersed in water, shows, that in the former, life is supported many days without any other action of the air, than that which may be exerted on the nervous system, or on the blood through the medium of the skin. To demonstrate the influence of the air on the blood, through the medium of the skin, frogs strangled with bladder and a ligature, as in the preceding experiments, were placed in receivers containing atmospheric air. They were removed an hour or two after, and a sensible quantity of carbonic acid was de- tected in the air of the vessels. Dr. Edwards’ next inquiry was, how far the facts just detailed may be modified by various circumstances ; and further experiments war- ranted him in concluding, that as the tempera- ture of the water, in which the animals are immersed, is reduced, so will the duration of life be prolonged. Thus when the tempera- ture of the Seine water was cooled by means of ice to 50° Fahrenheit, it was found, that of two frogs immersed in it, one lived five hours fifty minutes, and the other six hours fifteen minutes. When the water was reduced to 32° Fahrenheit, eight frogs were introduced into it, and they lived from six hours seven minutes to eight hours eighteen minutes. When, instead of cooling the water, its tem- perature was raised to 72° Fahrenheit, that of the air being 38° Fahrenheit, the frogs only lived from one hour ten minutes to thirty- five minutes; when it was raised to 90° Fah- renheit, they died in from thirty-two minutes to twelve minutes ; and when it was raised to 108° Fahrenheit, they scarcely lived a few seconds, and in no instance exceeded two mi- nutes. It is worthy of remark, that the de- gree of heat at which frogs cannot survive immersion in water is about the natural tem- perature of warm-blooded animals. The influence of temperature on fishes, he also found to resemble that on the Batra- chians. If a bleak (cyprinus alburnus) be put into a vessel with a large mouth, containing five ounces and a half of aerated water at 68° Fahrenheit in summer, it dies within a few hours ; but when the temperature is lowered to 30° or 33° Fahrenheit, and kept at that point, the animals lives until its secretions are so abundant as to corrupt the water. The general result to be arrived at from these facts is, that, notwithstanding the dif- ferent conditions in which the animals are placed, the more the temperature is raised beyond certain limits, the greater is the de- gree of the influence of the air required for the support of their life. Dr. Edwards’ experiments on warm-blooded animals are also full of interest, and bear even more directly on our present inquiry. In consequence of the circulation being more rapid, and the nutritive function more active in young animals, it has been a general opinion that their temperature is much higher than in adults; but the contrary is the fact. A thermometer being placed in the axilla, and the bulb applied so as to be on all sides in con- tact with the animal, it was ascertained that the temperature of some new-born puppies whilst in the act of sucking was nearly equal to that of the mother, being about a degree or two lower ; this difference not being con- stant, and being observable among adults also, it may be altogether disregarded. When, however, at a temperature between 30° and 68° Fahrenheit, a new-born puppy was removed, and kept an hour or two from its mother, its temperature fell considerably, and continued falling, until, in the course of three or four hours, it stopped a very few degrees above that of the surrounding air. The same phenomenon took place with kittens and rab- bits. The effect of these experiments was ascer- tained not to be occasioned by the want of food, for the temperature began to fall as soon as the separation from the mother took place, and the diminution was not in the least re- tarded by furnishing the young animal with milk from time to time. Neither can it be attributed to the want of an artificial covering, which could only retard and not prevent the lowering of the temperature ; and in some animals well covered with hair at birth, expo- sure, though more slowly, produces the same effect. It appears, then, the young animal produces less heat in a given time than the adult; and as it advances in life, that it gradually acquires a greater power of producing heat, until at