774* CICATRIX. we used to hear of, where disease was said to commence in the lungs as soon as the diseased joint is removed, arc to be accounted for in this way : the lungs being diseased, but the symptoms rendered latent by the action going on in the joint. On the other hand, if the lungs be sound, and there is no hope of saving the joint, the sooner it is removed the better, as the local irritation, if long pro- tracted, will almost certainly be a cause of dis- ease in some vital organ. See Amputation. As to the general treatment, the grand ob- ject is to support the powers of the patient. Pure air is of the first importance, and it is much to be regretted that the wealthy and charitable should rather support institutions in unhealthy neighbourhoods, than establish a convalescent hospital in some healthy locality. Where the circumstances of the patient per- mit, a spot should be selected where the tem- perature is not liable to sudden vicissitudes, and where there is not much cold or moisture. The diet must be simple and nutritious, but unstimulating. As much exercise as can be taken without causing motion of the limb is to be enjoined. The clothing must be warm in the day time, but it is an error to cause perspiration at night by too many blankets on the bed. The state of the digestive organs must be attended to, but the simpler the medi- cines that are used the better. I have often seen much benefit from rhubarb in moderate doses with carbonate of soda and infusion of gentian. This has appeared to keep the bowels in a regular state, and at the same time obviate the capaciousness of appetite so often observed inThese cases, better than more complicated formulas. Sir B. Brodie strongly recom- mends sarsaparilla to be given in full doses for a considerable period. The lighter tonics will also prove serviceable, among which the salicine is by far the best, in doses of from five to ten grains three times a day. An oc- casional opiate will sometimes be required. As to specific remedies, mercury should be altogether discarded, but in all cases where not expressly contra-indicated a fair and full trial should be given to the iodide of potassium, and from what I have seen of its effects 1 am led to expect the happiest effects when its use is commenced before extensive disorganization of the joint has come on. Bir.MOGRAl’HY.—Severinus, Synopsis Chinn-gi® : Amsterdam, 1664. Hunter, Philosophical Transac- tions : 1748. Crowther, On White Swelling : London, 1790. Petit, Traite des Maladies Chirurgicales: Paris, 1790. Darner, De Gravioribus qnihusdam Cartilagi- num Mutationibus : Tubingen, 1798. Russell, On Morbid Affections of the Knee : Edinb. 1802. Rouse, De la Resection : Paris, 1812. Rust, Arthrokakologie : Wien, 1817. Schreger, Chirurgische Versiichc : Nurn- berg, 1818. Wilson, On the Structure and Physio- logy of the Skeleton, and the Diseases of Bones and Joints : London, 1820. Lloyd, On the Nature and Treatment of Scrophula: London, 1821. Boyer, Traite des Maladies Chirurgicales : Paris, 1822. Larrey, On the use of Moxa as a therapeutical agent; trans- lated by Dunglinson : London, 1822. Buchanan, Essay on a New Mode of Treatment for Diseased Joints: London, 1823. Scott, Surgical Observations: London, 1828. Otto, Compendium of Human and Comparative Pathological Anatomy : London, 1831. Cniveilhier, Archives Generates de Medecine: Paris, 1824. Liston, Elements of Surgery: Edinb. 1831. Wickham, On the Diseases of Joints: Winchester,1833. Brodie, On the Diseases of Jointsfthird edition): Lon- don, 1834. Rust, Handbuch der Chirurgie : Berlin, 1836. Syme, Principles of Surgery, Edinb. 1837. Brodie, Lectures illustrative of certain Local Nervous Affections : London, 1837. Mayo, Human Pathology : London, 1836. Liston, Practical Surgery (second edition): London, 1838. ( Thomas Spencer Wells.') CHORDEE, Chordata Gonorrhea. A pain- ful affection of the penis, which sometimes accompanies gonorrhea, and is mostly trouble- some during the night, when the organ is in the state of erection. See Gonorrhea. CHOROIDITIS. Inflammation of the Choroid. See Amaurosis. CHRUPSIA, more correctly CHROOP- SIA, from xjtoa, colour and oxpiQ, vision. Co- loured vision. In the healthy state, the eye is to all intents and purposes an achromatic instrument, but its dioptric parts may be so deranged or suffused as to decompose the light, and make objects appear as if surrounded by the colours of the rainbow. This effect may also be produced by inflection merely, as is seen by closing one eye and looking at printed letters with the other over the point of the nose. But the form of coloured vision which particularly merits the attention of the practitioner, is that depending on some affec- tion of the nervous apparatus of the eye, and therefore, occurring as a symptom of Amau- rosis, which see, as also Eye. CICATRIX, cicatrice, Fr. Karbc, Germ. ov\i), Gr. The word cicatrix is by some authors derived from ccecare, to blind ; by others from kikvo) valeo or Krjicig nidor; but 1 am disposed to believe that its true etymology is unknown. It is employed in surgical pathology to denote the mark or scar left after the healing of a wound or ulcer. A cicatrix is in every case the result of a deposition of lymph which becomes condensed, organized, and presents a fibro-cellular cha- racter, forming what Delpech has termed modular tissue. As it is composed of a newly organized substance, it does not resemble any of the natural structures. At first thin, deli- cate, and fragile, it appears redder than the adjacent skin, the subjacent vascular layer being partially visible through the translucent web. It is also, from close adhesion, stiff and im- moveable, but gradually becomes more supple, and at the same time more compact, in con- sequence partly of the repeated movements and extension of the parts, and partly of the absorption of the effused and thickened lymph in adjunct structures. It is highly susceptible of injury from slight mechanical or chemical causes ; and is likewise prone to give way and ulcerate during certain morbid conditions of the system. Imperfect sup-