502 BONE, DISEASES OF. instances he has brought forward the atrophy is not to be ascribed fully as much to inaction as to loss of nervous influence. But that atrophy should result from any cause destroy- ing the connection between a bone, or part of it and the nervous centre, is what we should ex- pect from the influence we know the nervous system possesses over the capillary circulation and the process of nutrition ; and, therefore, we can readily understand how, in the inte- resting case, recorded by Mr. Travers, “union between the ends of a fractured leg, that was paralyzed from fracture of the lumbar verte- brae, failed to proceed ; whilst the extremities of the humerus, fractured at the same time, united perfectly in the usual period.” Mr. Curling has shown that a form of atrophy in which the cancelli are enlarged, and the walls thinned, results from the supply of blood by the medullary artery being cut off. He found that in femurs and tibiae, fractured below the entrance of the medullary artery, the inferior of the fractured extremities was thus atrophied, while in the humerus broken above the entrance of the medullary artery, the superior fragment underwent this change. This is in accordance with the direction of the medullary artery, which Mr. Curling considers as the proper nutrient vessel of the bone, and is an interesting example of the benefit de- rived from a knowledge of minute anatomical observations in explaining physiological facts. The atrophy apparently results, as Mr. Cur- ling explains, from the unyielding nature of the canals through which the periosteal arte- ries pass; for although the branches of the periosteal and medullary arteries freely anas- tomose, the former vessels cannot increase, as those of the soft parts, so as to keep up the necessary supply of blood. 3. By fragilitas ossium we mean a morbid brittleness of bone ; a state in which it breaks under very slight injury. In many cases this is the result of atrophy : the walls of the bone being thinned, and the cancelli widened, a mere shell remains, which is fractured so readily that it has given rise to the term spon- taneous fracture. I saw a patient of Mr. Wain wright’s of Barnsley, last year, a person of very slight muscular power, whose humerus broke when she was wringing a piece of linen she had been washing ; and Mr. S. Cooper mentions a case in which the humerus of a boy was broken by shampooing. In another class of cases fragilitas arises from the quantity of inorganic matter being in excess, which it has been stated is frequently the case in the bones of the aged. Hence old persons are more liable to fractures than are adults, con- sidering the less amount of risk they are ex- posed to; and it is probable these accidents would be still more frequent, were it not for the large quantity of oily matter that becomes infiltrated through the osseous tissue in ad- vanced life. M. Ribes ', however, considers 1 Diet, des Sciences Med. t.38. that senile fragility does not depend so much on excess of inorganic matter, as in a defect in the quantity of all the materials forming bone ; in other words, on pure general atro- phy. Just as the muscles of an old subject cannot effect the feats of a young one, so the. bones are unable to support the same shocks. Though this is probably correct in many in- stances, still the experiments of able chemists have been so numerous, repeated, and conclu- sive, that fragility from excess of inorganic matter may be regarded as a pathological fact, which is not to be invalidated by the specula- tions of any man, however sagacious. Mr. Porter supports the view of M. Ribes, and his opinion is worthy of respectful attention ; but we cannot agree with him, that, because in a few instances, he could detect no superabund- ance of earthy matter in the bones of old per- sons, that Davy, Schreger, and others, have never done so. And if we allow that fragility may arise not only from disproportion between the elementary constituents of bone, but also from general or partial atrophy, the opposite opinions may be reconciled. The bones of per- sons suffering from cancer, scrofula, scurvy, and mercurial cachexia, are sometimes easily broken ; but this condition can scarcely be described as brittleness, though classed under that head by most systematic writers. So far from being brittle, their texture is generally softened by the interstitial deposition of morbid substances. 4. The term rachitis is generally understood to imply a certain disease peculiar to bone. This, however, is incorrect. The bones only participate with other parts in debility of the whole system, the phosphate of lime being de- ficient in them, as the quantity of fibrin is in the muscles. The want of energy in the de- velopment of the osseous system is shown by the tardy appearance of the teeth, or their speedily falling out after they have appeared, the frequent occurrence of which in rickety children was noticed by Lieutand. The earthy matter being deficient, the animal re- mains in such excess, that the bones are soft, and yield under the superincumbent weight. Monro states, that in some cases 74, 75, and 79 parts in 100 consisted of animal matter. In the worst forms of rachitis the compact struc- ture is thinned, the cells of the areolar struc- ture expanded, and filled with a gelatinous fluid ; but a rickety bone more generally ap- proaches the appearance and consistence of cartilage. There is not only a want of pro- portion between the quantities of animal and inorganic matter in this affection, but some- times so much phosphoric acid is secreted, that the phosphate of lime, an insoluble salt, is converted into a biphosphate, which is soluble, and of course more readily acted on by the absorbents. It is not improbable that this is the first link in the chain of morbid action in some cases where there was no original defi- ciency of the earthy salt. That there is no want of the materials in the system is shown bv the undue secretion of phosphates by the