64G CANCER, TREATMENT OF, nated. In some of these cases, too, the symp- toms may have been really those of a false cachexia, a subject excellently handled by M. Recamier. Admitting1 that we have a case to deal with in which no formal contra-indication to the performance of the operation exists, the time when it ought to be undertaken remains to be determined. In general terms, we should say the moment the cancerous nature of the dis- ease is established : provision is thus made for a moderate trial of such means as are known to exercise evident influence on indurations simulating carcinoma. The habit of tempo- rizing has more than any other cause brought operations for cancer into discredit ; and in cases of encephaloid disease the necessity for prompt action cannot be too strongly enforced, nor should our being obliged to amputate a limb to remove the morbid growth prevent us from urging the patient to submit, before it is too late. It may be objected that, acting on this principle, non-cancerous diseases of a com- paratively innocuous character have been er- roneously removed,—that simply hypertro- phous mammae have been cut out as affected with scirrhus. We admit the fact, but to us it seems infinitely better to run the chance of uselessly removing, in very rare instances, an organ of the sort, than of leaving a true scir- rhus to destroy the patient. So far we have spoken of the operation as a means of radical cure ; but it may perhaps become allowable as a palliative,—as likely to prolong life and conduce to a comparative euthanasia, in certain cases, where the agony endured and the abundance of the haemor- rhage are rapidly wearing out the existence of the sufferer. This is the more true, as in some cases which, had they been permitted to run their own course, must, to all appearance, have terminated fatally in a few weeks, an operation executed under these most disheart- ening circumstances has added several months, nay some years, to life. These, however, are occurrences of extreme rarity; and unless the patient be determined to submit to the knife with a full consciousness of the comparatively slight benefit he is entitled to expect from his submission, the operation should not be had recourse to : the surgeon may yield to the entreaty of the patient, but cannot conscien- tiously advise removal. The extirpation of cancer has been effected with caustics, by ligature or with the knife. Enucleation of non-ulcerated carcinoma with arsenical preparations is no longer undertaken by educated practitioners ; but, as we have mentioned, the chloride of zinc has been suc- cessfully used for this purpose of late years by Mr. Ure. It was formerly much the habit to remove these growths by ligature when attached by a narrow base, and Recamier is of opinion that carcinomatous vegetations are less prone to return when thus removed than when cut away. Where there is reason to dread obstinate haemorrhage, as in the instance of circumscribed tumours in the rectum, this mode of operating has its advocates. These arc, however, exceptional cases ; in all others the knife is to be preferred, and is in the ma- jority the only possible means of removing the entire disease. Some practitioners recom- mend the repeated application of leeches be- fore the operation, for the purpose of removing an inflammatory action in the vicinity of the tumour and of diminishing its own size : com- pression is by others advised with the same view. These practices, admitting that they have the desired effect, seem very likely to induce a false estimate of the extent to which the elementary molecules of the cancer may extend, and hence of causing some of the morbid matter to be left behind. Sir A. Cooper strongly advises an alterative course of Plummer’s pill before operation ; this idea of the utility of a constitutional treatment seems to have been entertained at a very early period, as the following passage shows : “ Galenus autem sectionis tantum ehirurgiam admittens, in hunc modum tradit. Si quando cancrum manuum et scalpelli opera curare a us us fueris, vacuationem abatree bills purgatione auspiceris1.” In the performance of the operation the most important point to be borne in mind is the absolute necessity of removing every particle of diseased matter; and in order to ensure this result, a stratum of healthy tissue should if possible be removed along with the morbid growth : for this purpose it may be necessary to extirpate an organ or amputate a limb. It is decidedly advantageous that the wound should be united by first intention, but the surgeon should not run the risk of retaining implicated skin to effect this object. When extensive excision of skin is required, the resulting hiatus may be closed up by a plastic operation. Efforts have been made to devise a means of modifying the constitution after operation so as to avert reproduction. With this view, exhibition of alterative medicines, occasional small blood-letting, the establishment of issues, &e. have been recommended, but such modes of treatment have not been distinctly produc- tive of the desired effect: M. Rayer, how- ever, “ has fancied ” that relapses are less frequent after removal of cutaneous cancer, when an issue has been previously made in either extremity2. M. Recamier recommends pressure, but if the tendency to relapse be strong, we fear little is to be hoped from the practice. Change of climate is now, if under any circumstances, likely to be beneficial. A few years since M. Martinet published some cases in which the return of the disease after ablation was alleged to have been prevented by the aid of plastic surgery. Having attempted to restore by rhinoplasty the portion of a nose which had undergone cancerous ulceration, and given origin to fungous excrescences in spite of excision, the actual cautery and arsenical paste, he was ' P. TEgincta, vi. 45, p. 463. Ed. Basil._ 2 Dis. of Skin, translat. by Willis, p. 270.