CANCER, ANATOMY OF. 593 medullary sarcoma, to make it the basis of nomenclature. We employ the word en- cephaloid as more convenient and more com- monly used. The section of an encephaloid mass pre- | sents, when fully developed, the appear- ance of an almost homogeneous matter, of an opaque milky colour, ordinarily dotted { with spots of pinkish hue, varying in different specimens in number, size, and shape. In consistence it closely resembles the healthy brain of an adult, and may be broken up be- | tween the fingers with about the same facility j as the substance of that viscus ; if torn through, the lacerated surface presents a coarsely granular aspect. It has no particular smell; j Maunoir states that it has the same odour as the brain, but his senses were probably under the influence of the curious theory he main- tained respecting its nature. Tumours of this kind are found to consist i essentially of two elements,—a contained j part, the cancerous “ matter,” which gives the ; cerebriforin appearance to the whole ; and a I containing part, consisting of denser septa, ; which divide the mass into lobes and lobules. I These septa rarely appear to intersect each other, but describe curves circumscribing loculi of various shapes and sizes. Though i occasionally of fibrous consistence, and in very I tare instances even actually cartilaginiform, the laminae composing them are ordinarily of very delicate cellular texture, and have in some cases been compared by observers to a spider’s web. It is unusual to meet with a tumour pre- senting these characters uniformly through its whole substance ; some portions are com- monly harder, others much softer than the matter just described. The variation in point of consistence is marked by a difference in the mode of arrangement of the carcino- matous matter. The hardest part presents a radiated or firmly granular appearance ; that of less consistence is largely granular or lobulated ; while the softest is collected into large lobes of diffluent pulp. The quantity of pink spots and the opacity of the morbid matter generally increase with its softness. The facility with which the contained can- cerous matter is removable from the con- taining loculi also depends on the consistence of the part examined ; when this possesses the density of infant brain, it may be removed by gentle pressure, or by letting a stream of water fall upon it, with as much ease as if enclosed in the cells of a sponge. The ex- pressed matter sometimes preserves the shape of the loculi, and looks like fragments of boiled rice or vermicelli, and a filamentous shreddy locular tissue, the containing basis of the growth, is left behind. When sufficiently firm and adherent to resist this mode of separation, the carcinomatous matter may be removed cither by maceration, or, as M. Cruveilhier has particularly shown, by cutting the mass into thin slices, and submitting them to the pressure of a machine. VOL. i. The pink tint of encephaloid is evidently produced by the presence of numerous blood- vessels ; its abundant provision in this respect leads to the striking differences between the vital phenomena observable in it and in the other species of cancerous production. These vessels, which vary in diameter from that of a hair to a line and upwards, and appear to the naked eye to contain florid arterial blood, occur in the form of small isolated striae in some situations, in others of arborescent patches. The vascular character is in some instances distinctly defined, in others ill- marked ; .in the latter case the blood almost seems as if it had simply been laid on with a brush in minute points and striae. Small rounded or irregular patches of effused blood are visible elsewhere. This vascular supply is not limited to the dividing septa of the structure ; the vessels may be traced from the cellular substance in- vesting the growth generally, or from the peduncle of a tumour when its attachment to the surrounding tissues is of this kind, seen to ramify into the septa, and from these to plunge into the contained matter. The latter frequently appears, on a section of the tumour, to be the part most abundantly furnished with vessels : in cases of very successful ar- terial injection the mass appears to be almost exclusively formed of a vascular plexus. Besides the vessels communicating wuth external trunks, there are seen in the sub- stance of encephaloid growths small vascular tufts, apparently unconnected with the sur- rounding circulation, assuming various shapes, of which the most common variety is a single minute trunk, terminating at either end by a number of ramusculi branching off in a stellate form. To these branches, more especially, the remark of Laennec, that the w’alls of the vessels of encephaloid are very thin in pro- portion to their calibre, may be understood to apply. Their venous or arterial character is a subject of dispute. According to Dr. Carswell they are frequently varicose, and have altogether much more a venous than an arterial aspect: to Dr. Hodgkin, they appear to consist of the capillary vessels of Bichat on a large scale, and their tendency to assume the arterial or venous quality chiefly deter- mined by fortuitous circumstances : Cruveil- hier authoritatively affirms that they are veins —an affirmation generalized in the statement, that arteries of new formation are never found in accidental tissues. The general impression, however, derived either from the aspect of the vessels of encephaloid, or from the results of injection, appears to have been that they were essen- tially arterial. Until of late no particular inquiry had been made into the condition of the veins of these growths, pathologists being contented with ascertaining that the encepha- loid matter may be frequently found in the larger veins on the surface oftumours andtraced into the adjoining venous trunks. In 1830,howr- ever. Professor Berard injected with all ne- Q Q