830 CORNEA. bandaging. If the tumour, after remaining in an easy state for some time, should all at once become hot and painful, the leeching or sca- rification must be again had recourse to, in order to prevent, if possible its degeneration into an abscess. If the means employed should not prove successful, an early opening of the tumour would be advisable, to prevent exten- sive destruction of the neighbouring cellu- lar tissue, or the formation of troublesome sinuses. Bibliography. — Loelier, Historia Contusionum. Jena, 1726. Knipliof Vexatorum Theoria Historia. Erfurt, 1748. Loustaunau, De Contusionibus. Paris, 1753. Gauz, Von den Folgen vemachlassigter Gc- lenk-Quetschungen. Frankfort, 1792. Racinet, De la Gangrene causee par la Contusion. Paris, 1813. Rieux, De l’Ecchymose, de la Suggillation, de la Con- tusion, et de la Meurtrissure. Paris, 1814. Cruvcl- hier, Thesis de Contusionibus. Paris, 1816. Velpeau, De la Contusion dans tous les organes. These de Concours. Paris, 1834. (JV. B. Costello.) COPHOSIS, Kw^wcrif, surditas, deafness. See Ear. COPPER. (Cuprum, Lat. ; Kwjrpog, Gr.; Cuivre, Fr.; Kupfer, Ger.) The sulphate and subacetate of this metal are alone used in surgery. For the former, see Caustics. The subacetate, or, as it is called, cerugo, is employed as a detergent in association with ointments, or as an escharotic. The sulphate of copper is also employed in the treatment of purulent ophthalmia, as a collyrium, and as an injection in gleet. CORECTOMI A, a name given by German writers to the operation of making artificial pupil by excision ; from Kopti, pupil; be, out; and ripvoi, I cut. See Pupil, Artificial. COREDIALYSIS.—The operation for ar- tificial pupil by separation of the iris from its ciliary attachment; from icopij, pupil; and Siakvio, I loosen. See Pupil, Artificial. COREMORPHOSIS.—The operation for artificial pupil; from Kopq, pupil; and poptywoiQ, formation. See Pupil, Artificial. COREONCION, (from xopi), pupil, and byxoQ, hook,) a name given by the Germans to an instrument employed in the operation of making an artificial pupil, by separating part of the iris from its ciliary attachment. Graefe’s coreoncion consisted originally of a simple hook, provided with a guard which could be slid towards its point, or withdrawn from it, by means of a ferrule on the handle. At the opposite end of the instrument, there was a small knife for making the opening in the cornea. Graefe afterwards changed the simple hook for a double one made of hard- ened gold. He also added a spring by which the guard could be carried towards the point of the double hook, which was at the same time closed. Schlagintweit’s iriankistron 1 is an instru- ment very similar to Graefe’s simple coreon- cion, the principal difference being, that in the former the guard is received by the concavity of the hook, whereas in the latter it meets the point. Langenbeck’s coreoncion. This consists of a silver tube, like a pencil-case, which serves as the handle, and fixed to one end of it a fine gold tube about one inch and a quarter long. A steel wire, terminating in a fine hook, is enclosed within the gold tube, and being fixed within the handle of the instrument somewhat as a pencil is in a pencil-case, it admits of being protruded by touching a knob on the side of the handle. By means of a spiral spring within the handle, it is again drawn back. In this closed state the concavity of the hook is received by the edge of the golden tube, and its point thus kept so guarded that it is not apt to catch or wound any part by accident. The instrument is introduced closed through the opening in the cornea into the anterior chamber, the hook is then pushed out a little by touching the knob on the handle, the iris seized, and then the instrument closed by allowing the spiral spring to act. The part of the iris seized is thus jammed between the edge of the golden tube and concavity of the hook. In this state the instrument is with- drawn, and along with it the part of the iris detached, which is left strangulated in the wound of the cornea. It is to be remarked, that these and analo- gous instruments, called by different names, are quite unnecessary to the dexterous sur- geon, and in the hands of an awkward person are not so manageable as the simple hook or forceps. It is unnecessary to give figures of the instruments. Bibliography.—Graefe's coreoncion is described in a small tract, entitled “ Das Coreoncion, ein Beit rag zur kiinstlichen Pupillcnbildung,” Berlin und Leip- zig, 1817, by Prof. Juengken; in “ Hufeland’s Jour- nal,” 1818, Mai; and in “ Graefe und Walther’s Jour- nal,” vol. iii. p. 135. For an account of Langenbeck’s instrument, sec bis “ Neue Bibliothek fur dieChir. und Ophthalmologie,” vol. i. p. 221. 228. 454. 676 ; vol. ii. p. 106, Hanover, 1818, 1819. See also “ Mackenzie's Practical Treatise on the Eye,” 3rd ed. p. 751, &c. CORNEA, or transparent cornea, in contra- distinction to the sclerotica, which has been called opaque cornea. L. cornea seu cornea pcl/ucida; Gr. KfpciroEiCjje ; Fr. la cornec, ou la cornee transparente ; Ger. die Hornhaut oder die durchsichtige Hornhaut. The injuries and diseases of the cornea are, in every respect, worthy the careful attention of the surgeon, as even the slightest of them may prove a matter of grave consequence to the economy of the eye. To understand properly the nature of the diseases of the cornea, and the cause of the 1 Uebcr den gegemvartigen Zustanddcr kiinstlichen Pupillenbildung in Deutschland; Munchcn, 1818.