ANEURISM. 279 Valentine Mott of New York was, how- ever, the first who tied the common iliac with success in 1827. The aneurism for which he operated, had been formed suddenly, and had in the short space of ten days attained to a considerable size, producing dreadful pain, and uplifting the walls of the abdomen at every pulsation. The tumour comprehended the whole of the external iliac, and even as- cended a little above the origin of the internal iliac. Fig. 96. h, on the track of the aorta, ready to command the cir- culation, by compressing the artery against the lum- bar vertebroe. The peritoneum, d, detached from the iliac fossa, and exposing the lumbar nerves which cross that space, is seen drawn across the upper part of the wound, and pressed also beneath the fingers of the assistant. In the centre of the wound, a, the great arterial trunk itself is seen bifurcating into the inter- nal and external iliacs ; the trunk or common iliac is raised on an aneurism needle,g, and ligatures,/'/'/', are placed on each division of the arterial tree. The ejcternal iliac vein, c, lies to the inside of the artery, and is crossed by the internal iliac artery. The sa- tellite nerve is seen running down the surface of the main trunk, and should not be included, in the ligature. Ligature of the Common Iliac. — Dr. Mott made a semicircular incision, which extended from the outer side of the inguinal ring, about half an inch above Poupart’s ligament, to tw'o inches above the spine of the ilium. The peritoneum wras raised from the aneur- ismal tumour, and a ligature was placed on the artery a little way below the bifurcation of the aorta. The pulsations ceased imme- diately in the tumour, and the limb became cold; the natural heat returned about an hour after, and the patient recovered per- fectly without showing any symptom either of haemorrhage or gangrene. In the following year, Mr. Crampton of Dublin tied the common iliac, and in all pro- bability would have also saved his patient, had he employed the ordinary silk ligature. The patient died of haemorrhage on the fourth day. It would appear from the au- topsy, that the ligature of animal matter, which Mr. Crampton thought deserving of a preference on this occasion, had either slipped from the artery or been dissolved before it had become obliterated. The circulation, heat, and sensibility of the limb, were how- ever, as in Mr. Mott’s case, fully re-established long before this unfortunate event. Dr. Gibson of Baltimore also tied the com- mon iliac, but without success, for a wound of this vessel. If the progress of an aneurism were slow, Valsalva’s treatment ought however to be first had recourse to, and in some instances, per- haps Brasdor’s method might find its appli- cation. ABDOMINAL AORTA. The aorta, after passing the diaphragm, gives off a considerable number of very im- portant branches; but, at its lowest part, after giving origin to the inferior mesenteric branch, it runs to its bifurcation in front of the lower part of the fourth lumbar vertebra, a space of about two inches, without detach- ing any other branch. This portion of the aorta has been tied ; and although the pro- priety of carrying out the principles of sur- gery, may in regard to this operation be ques- tioned, either generally or in relation to a given case, still the possibility of the circula- tion being carried on, and the lower extremi- ties being duly nourished after a ligature has been placed on the aorta, cannot be, for a moment doubted. The body is indeed a vast net-work of vessels, with communications al- most innumerable between one set or division of these vessels and another, and the blood therefore, when interrupted in the main chan- nel, instead of being dammed up and arrested, is forced through the collateral vessels until it reaches the main trunk again at some point below the obstruction ; the route it has taken being, it is true, more circuitous, but not the less certain. The supply of a sufficient quan- tity of blood to nourish the lower limbs is regarded almost as a matter of certainty, in experimenting on dogs, when a ligature is placed on the abdominal aorta. Sir A. Cooper has fully established this fact, as he has fre- quently tied the aorta in dogs, and always found that the blood was readily carried by the anastomoses into the posterior extremi- ties. This operative proceeding however, it must be admitted, must almost always be had re- course to, under great disadvantages, so that any analogy between it, and the ligature ex- perimentally applied on animals, cannot well be established. The nearest approach to such an analogy would be found in a wound of the vessel; yet if the wound were large, there would not be time to give the patient this chance for his life, and on the other hand, if the wound were small, the haemorrhage might proceed so gradually, that the diagnosis of the wound of the aorta could scarcely be estab-