35 ABSCESS. fest when the patient is in the erect posture; the matter gravitates, and if the course which it has taken in its descent be large and direct, a sensible movement of flux and reflux may be determined by the hand, the undulation being traceable to some extent up the abdomen ; its elasticity and fulness are also increased by coughing or straining, or deeply inspiring. On the other hand, if the patient is in the recumbent posture the tumour diminishes. Some constitutions are known to present a sort of suppurative idiosyncrasy, the formation of pus occurring upon the slightest, and often w'ithout any ostensible cause. When such a disposition of the economy is known to exist, it will, of course, in doubtful cases, be taken into account in establishing the diagnosis. This disposition is developed in a remarkable manner in some acute diseases, as in confluent variola, gastro-intestinal inflammations, by the suppression of accustomed evacuations in soft, pale, and lymphatic habits. Diseases that differ entirely from the nature of abscess are liable to be confounded with tumours of this nature. Aneurismal sacs have been opened for abscesses, and an abscess from its contiguity to large vessels, in the axilla and popliteal space for instance, has been left un- opened from a fear of its being an aneurismal and not a purulent tumour. Certain physical signs in such obscure cases are of great utility in guiding the surgeon to a correct judgment; amongst others, the conical elevation of the purulent tumour in the middle, and the gra- dual diffusion or sinking of the base of the tumour at its circumference. Prognostic of Abscess.—Between the two extremes of a superficial phlegmonous speck of matter, and an extensive abscess formed in the depth of our organs, of course there is a vast field to exercise the surgeon’s skill in prognostic ; the former unimportant, almost imperceptible, and impeding in no wise the healthy action of the powers of life ; the latter disturbing those powers, arresting or destroying organic functions, and proving ne- cessarily, and more or less rapidly, fatal. The gravity of an abscess depends on the one hand on its extent, and on the other hand on the nature and importance of the parts in which the matter is formed; frequently this last is the only important consideration, and the abscess proves destructive of life whether it be extensive or not. On this account abs- cesses in reference to their seat or situation in the brain, lungs, heart, liver, kidneys, all organs essential to life, or in the neighbour- hood of such organs, such as infiltrations of pus in the cellular tissue of the abdomen, and of the pelvis after peritoneal inflammations, or operations performed on these parts, are more unfavourable than when they are situated su- perficially, or in the interior of members or articulations. The next in point of gravity are those which are symptomatic of a lesion of the ver- tebrae, the abscess by congestion, and gene- rally all collections, wherever situated, or from whatever cause produced, which are extensive, and which furnish pus in too great quantity. We do not however mean to state, that all abscesses of this kind, or even of internal organs essential to life, particularly when na- ture prepares an outlet, are necessarily fatal; this would be contrary to experience. But under such circumstances we may affirm, that the cases terminating favourably are not sufficiently numerous to entitle them to be regarded in any other light than that of for- tunate exceptions. It is, therefore, wholly impossible to determine in a general manner, whether a patient with abscess by congestion can be surely rescued from his disease by the resources of art or not. The first step to- wards even a probability in this respect should be grounded on an exact knowledge of the seat and nature of the affection, upon which the abscess by congestion depends. A sim- ple psoitis, although accompanied with ex- tensive inflammation of the cellular tissue, and furnishing matter of a large abscess, but without any constitutional affection of the neighbouring vertebrae, will evidently be attended with much less danger, even though the neighbour- ing vertebrae be denuded, than when the col- lection has sprung from a caries of those bones. When the cavity of the abscess is extensive, and its sides altered from the healthy structure, when they have become thickened and cartila- ginous, and when the external openings have become fistulous, the drain to which the consti- tution is exposed from the absence of all dis- position in the parts to heal renders the fate of the patient very doubtful. But even under these unfavourable circumstances, amelioration, and ultimate recovery are not to be despaired of. Instances of cure are recorded of Pott’s disease of the vertebrae, accompanied with congestive abscess. Several remarkable cases attest the curability of abscess by congestion, under its severest forms. It was observed that the pus was absorbed and replaced by gaseous fluid, which in its turn was removed, and the accidental cavity was obliterated. Dupuy- tren observed in several subjects, partially obliterated tracks, terminating at the vertebrae, in which he could still discern the debris of tuberculous matter, but the pus had been to- tally absorbed, and the traces of disease of the vertebrae were alone discernible; and in another case of angular curvature of the vertebral co- lumn, in which the bodies of several vertebrae had been destroyed, the whole wras perfectly healthy and consolidated ; the psoas of the left side was wasted to a mere fibrous cord, the purulent cavity had disappeared without leav- ing any trace, either of pus or tuberculous matter. Such terminations, however, can only be confidently looked for under very favour- able circumstances, and when the abscesses remain unopened; when they become fistulous, the case is all but hopeless. Nevertheless the prognosis is in most cases unpromising, as it requires the concurrence of many favourable circumstances, aided by the efforts of art, to bring about a fortunate termination. The ex- tent of the purulent cavity in the sympto- matic abscess adds much to the peril of the D 2