CHONDRITIS. 7G9 quently exhibit no other marks of morbid action. The cartilages are found of a dirty-white colour, less translucent than when healthy, and softened towards their edges. Some- times they have a worm-eaten appearance, at others they are partially raised from the sub- jacent bone. Frequently one edge is quite detached from the bone, so that the portion of cartilage hangs like a valve into the cavity of the joint. Sometimes it is completely separated, floating with a quantity of purulent matter in the remains of the synovial sac. The cartilage is occasionally removed alto- gether. The other tissues of the joint gene- rally present evidences of the most acute in- flammatory action, but sometimes the cartilage is absorbed, and there remains no other appa- rent disease. I had lately an opportunity of examining the body of a female who died about a fortnight after delivery, with symp- toms which were ascribed to puerperal peri- tonitis. There were, however, no traces of abdominal disease. While examining the organs of the pelvis, our attention was directed to the left sacro iliac synchondrosis by an ap- pearance of bulging in that situation. We found that the cartilages covering the opposed surfaces of the ilium and sacrum had been com- pletely absorbed, and the bones were conse- quently denuded. There was a large quan- tity of pus contained between and around the bones, and their abraded surface was covered by an exudation of recent lymph. Having described the symptoms usually observed in the different classes of cases in which ulceration of cartilage is a prominent symptom, or the principal and primary dis- ease, it becomes necessary to allude to the diagnosis of the chronic cases from other dis- eases. They may be mistaken for inflamma- tion of the synovial membrane ; articular os- teitis ; scrophulous deposit in the articular extremities of the bones ; the peculiar change of structure in the synovial membrane de- scribed by Sir Benjamin Brodie ; inflammation of the ligaments ; external chronic abscess ; inflammation and effusion into a bursal sac; and neuralgia. The diagnosis of ulceration of cartilage from inflammation of the synovial membrane is not difficult. In synovitis the pain is at first severe, but gradually diminishes ; in ul- ceration, on the contrary, it is as a general rule at first slight, gradually increasing, and is aggravated in a far greater degree by any ap- proximation of the articular extremities of the bones. In synovitis the swelling occurs simul- taneously with, or very soon after the first attack of pain : in ulceration patients gene- rally suffer very severe pain for weeks before any swelling is discoverable. In synovitis the form of the swelling is characteristic, from the bulging of the fluid at those parts of the joint unprotected by ligaments : in ulceration the swelling has the form of the healthy joint. In synovitis there is fluctuation throughout the disease : in ulceration there is no fluctua- tion till suppuration has taken place. vor.. i. Caries of the head of the bones is marked by its slow progress, and the earlier occur- rence of swelling. In the scrophulous cases there is very little pain, and far more swelling than in the case of disease of the cartilage ; there are other marks of a scrophulous dia- thesis ; the disease rarely occurs after pu- berty ; the swelling does not take the form of the joint, but gives an appearance of enlarge- ment of the head of the bone, so peculiar, that those who have observed it once, will not fail to recognize it. Suppuration, when it comes on, is not confined to a single collection of matter, but forms a succession of abscesses. In the words of Sir Benjamin Brodie, the gelatinous degeneration of the synovial mem- brane is marked by “ the gradual progress of the enlargement and stiffness of the joint without pain, and the soft elastic swelling without fluctuation, in the majority of cases, enable us to distinguish it readily from all the other morbid affections to which the joints are liable 1.” Inflammation of ligaments is marked by the superficial character of the pain and its in- crease, not by all motions of the joint, but only by those which put the affected liga- ments on the stretch. This is characteristic. The absence of the other symptoms of ulcer- ation of cartilage will also be remarked. The circumscribed nature of the swelling which results from bursal inflammation, its chronic character, the absence of pain, toge- ther with the occupation of the patient, will be sufficient to detect the nature of the dis- ease in its early stages on the most cursory glance. But if suppuration have taken place, the sac have ulcerated, and pus has been discharged into the cellular tissue around the joint, a mistake may be made. In order to show that this error is not an imaginary one, I may state, that I knew of a limb which was condemned to amputation, though this was the sole disease. The diagnosis is, of course, most simple, especially if the disease occur in the knee or elbow, as is almost invariably the case. If the pus were within the joint, it would be internal to the patella or olecranon, whereas in the other case it is external. The other marks of disease of the cartilage are also wanting. To those who have not seen much of arti- cular diseases, it may appear unlikely that mere chronic inflammation of the soft parts around a joint, attended by suppuration, should be mistaken for serious disease of the joint itself. Such, however, is not unfre- quently the case ; and sometimes the error is very far from a gross one, though an atten- tive enquiry into the history and symptoms would suffice to establish the diagnosis. Thus, if we compare the symptoms with those of ul- ceration of cartilage, we find that evident tu- mefaction is one of the earliest signs of chro- nic inflammation of the soft parts ; there is also more stiffness of the joint in the early ' Pathological and Surgical Observations on the Diseases of the Joints, |>. 80. a D