GS2 CANCER, PATHOLOGY OF. certain conditions, at present ill understood, the disease may follow inflammation, where without the occurrence of this process, the cancerous tendency might always have re- mained dormant. (d.) Predisposition}.—Unbiassed experience fully establishes the two following positions : —first, the various presumed causes of cancer may continue in action in many individuals for a length of time with every degree of intensity and in all possible inodes of combination, without producing the slightest manifestation of such dis- ease ; secondly, carcinoma exercises its most fearful ravages on subjects who have appa- rently never been influenced by any of its putative causes. In a word, all sound expe- rience goes to prove that these may occa- sionally hasten the outburst of the morbid action or fix it in a particular spot, but never generate it. Hence we are compelled to admit the existence of individual predisposi- tion, as a necessary condition for the produc- tion of the disease. The statistical results we have laid before the reader render the necessity of this admission more obvious than it had even previously appeared. In what the predisposition physically consists is a question to which the present state of know- ledge does not permit a satisfactory answer. Some authors of repute are disposed to con- sider it is established by a particular constitu- tion of the blood : the important facts bearing on humoral pathology recently elicited by ingenious experiment and observation give this view a certain degree of plausibility; but for the present it is merely hypothetical1 2. Attempts have been made to show that the predisposition may be limited to a single sys- tem ; and in proof it is affirmed, that in per- son thus locally predisposed, an injury which in other parts of the frame would produce no appreciable effect, will, in the weak system, be followed by cancerous formation. An illus- tration of the opinion (in which we cannot coincide) is found in the conversion of a blis- tered surface into a cancerous sore in indivi- duals with carcinoma of the skin : but a simi- lar occurrence has been noted, when no cuta- neous disease pre-existed. (e.) Duration.—The duration of cancerous affections varies from a few weeks to a consi- derable number of years : nay more ; tumours, proved to be of this kind by post-mortem 1 The terms predisposition, diathesis, and cachexia, are used in various ways by different writers : in order to obviate misapprehension it may be well to state here the sense in which they arc employed in this article. For the meaning of predisposition we refer to the text; by diathesis we understand the state of con- stitution in which multiplication of cancers occurs in the economy; by cachexia, the sum of general symp- toms attending the disease. 2 M. liouillaud ridicules the idea of predisposition, because its nature is not understood, and because it is only known to exist by its presumed effects. But this is precisely the case with caloric, electricity, &c.; we know nothing of their nature, and recognise them only by their effects : will M. Bouillaud therefore deny the existence of some power or agency, call it what he will, producing the results ascribed to them ? examination, and even ulcerated cancers, have been occasionally observed, the exist- ence of which had not apparently shortened the lives of the individuals having them, nor hardly produced more inconvenience than a perpetual issue. The mean duration of the disease, when following the more ordinary course, has never yet been methodically in- vestigated on a large scale. The extreme scarcity of cases reported with accurate dates will, we trust, be sufficient excuse for the small number of those from which the following results are deduced : they are offered merely as approximations. The length of the disease is of course reckoned from the occurrence of the first symptoms or signs ; cases in which it lasted so much as thirty or forty years, in the manner just re- ferred to, are purposely omitted from the calculation : in some of those included in it the patient’s existence w-as evidently cut short by operation—a circumstance to be allowed for in the general result. No. of Cases. Duration in months. All Species 37 27-14 Scirrhus 18 39-28 Colloid 1 24-00 Encephaloid 18 13-17 The progress of the disease is generally slower in old than in youthful subjects, and it is undoubtedly influenced by locality, though to what precise degree we have not been able to ascertain. Some other observations on this subject will be found in Part II. (f.) Frequency.—The deaths from cancer in England and Wales during a period of six months amounted to 1228 ; from this the sub- joined results, which we have, for the sake of comparison, placed beside the quantities re- presenting the frequency of phthisis, may be calculated. From Cancer, (two and a half years.) From Phthisis, (two years.) Proportion of deaths in every 1000 deaths. •671 196-563 Proportion of deaths in every 1000 living. •174 3-963 Absolute number constantly ill, supposing the diseases mortal and of the mean duration above stated. 6,140 111,416