231 ANEURISM. perienced, except at the commencement of the attack. At this period, to such a state of weakness and emaciation had she been re- duced, that a female friend, who came from a distance to see her, fainted the moment she beheld the altered condition of her person. She now, however, began gradually to re- cover, was able to sit out of bed, and her respiration became more free ; but she was still unable to sleep in the horizontal position. During the whole period of this severe illness, no appearance of any pulsating swelling could be discovered in the site of the former aneur- ism, nor did the aorta or the heart betray any symptom of disease. It ought here to be ob- served, that from the time of her return from the country, to the commencement of this illness, she had not been bled ; and perhaps the cessation of an evacuation, to which she had long been habituated, may have had some effect in producing the severe attack of bron- chitis. I thought it therefore advisable, in order to prevent any recurrence of this com- plaint, to repeat the bleedings frequently, particularly as she was sensible that they always afforded her great relief. It is of importance to observe, that from the commencement of my attendance on this patient, she had up to this period been bled above fifty times, to an extent at each opera- tion seldom less than a pint of blood, and frequently to nearly double that quantity. This treatment was persevered in for six weeks, and she regained her former appear- ance in a wonderful manner. The difficulty of respiration diminished greatly, so much so, that she could sleep in the natural position, and she was entirely free from the dreadful sensation of threatened suffocation. No tu- mour was now perceptible in the site of the former aneurism, but an unnatural feeling of hardness could be perceived at the root of the neck, immediately above the sternum, arising, no doubt, from a consolidation of the aneuris- mal tumour. The right carotid artery still pulsated, although not so strongly as the left; but its branch, the temporal artery, afforded no indication of the circulation of blood, and the right radial artery beat with about half the strength of the left. She suffered none of those pains in the regions of the neck, shoulders, and back ; nor had she, for a long time, experienced any of the severe headaches which formerly gave her so much uneasiness, the oedema of the feet had entirely disap- peared, and she was able to take exercise in the open air daily. For some time after this period no change took place in Mrs. Denmark’s condition; but she occasionally suffered from severe attacks of dyspnoea, which were generally relieved by blood-letting. In about three months, how- ever, a swelling was perceived immediately above the sternum, and a tumour arose which, as it advanced, occupied the centre of the neck, and covered the inferior portion of the trachea. In the course of some months after- wards a second tumour made its appearance in the site of the root of the right carotid artery, and extending up the right side of the neck. These two newly-formed swellings were so intermingled at their base with the firm and consolidated remains of the original aneurism, that the whole formed one formid- able mass, the limits of which could not be ascertained by the touch, and could only be a matter of conjecture. Many opinions were hazarded as to the origin and precise site of this tumour; my own opinion, however, re- mained unaltered, and I now deliberated on the propriety of tying the right carotid artery. It must be recollected that when I first con- templated obliterating the subclavian artery in this case, I did so from the conviction that Nature had already obliterated the right carotid, that vessel having long ceased to pulsate, and although sufficient time had elapsed from the application of the ligature on the subclavian artery to allow the process of coagulation in the tumour, yet when the circulation through the right carotid was ob- served, on the ninth day after the operation, to be imperfectly restored, the occurrence was most unexpected; nevertheless, the aneur- ismal tumour continued to decrease, and its distressing symptoms to become alleviated. However firmly I adhered to the original opinion I had formed of the seat of this aneurism, there were some surgeons in whose discrimination and judgment I placed great confidence, who were dubious of the precise site of the tumour. Such doubts, in a case of so difficult diagnosis, together with a conside- ration of the severity and danger of tying the carotid artery, even under the most favour- able circumstances, were to me sufficient reasons for not performing that operation ; I therefore endeavoured merely to mitigate the symptoms by a rigid system of depletion. The aneurism continued for some time to en- large, after which very little alteration in the state of the tumour took place. Respiration and deglutition were both impaired, and there was a copious secretion of watery mu- cus from the bronchi. The patient’s general health varied; she was sometimes comfortable and cheerful, at others, languid and feeble. About two months before her death general anasarca came on, and when it had increased so much as considerably to distend the inte- guments, the fluid drained off from an open- ing in the inferior extremity. During this period, she became considerably weaker, and was at last attacked with a violent diarrhoea ; which, although checked soon after its acces' sion, reduced her so much that she gradually became more and more exhausted, and ex- pired twenty-three months from the time the operation was performed. On examination after death, the bulk of the aneurismal swelling had not diminished. After removing the integument of the neck, the tu- mour was found to occupy the central space between the two sterno-mastoid muscles, and the sternal portions of each of these muscles lay over the sides of the tumour. The mass