112 EMPYEMA. humulus combined with hyoscyamus ; if this be well borne, something more active may be ventured upon,—for instance, the various pre- parations of iron, to one of which we have already referred. There is decidedly a stage of the malady, or perhaps rather a condition of the organism generally, in which, although some feverish action be present, the patient will be benefitted by tonics; a fact of which we have had numerous opportunities of satis- fying ourselves. All patients, however, will not be thus benefitted ; yet, as we are un- acquainted with any certain signs by which cases adapted for such treatment can be dis- tinguished beforehand from those in which it will inevitably fail, or make matters worse, cautious trial of the plan may be ventured on in every instance—its continuance or discon- tinuance to be regulated by the result. Change of air sometimes exercises a very manifest influence on the condition of patients with empyema,—primarily, it would appear, on the general health, and through this on the effusion. The mere fact of change almost seems to suffice; for there may be no positive superiority in the new atmosphere, in which the improvement occurs, to that for which it has been exchanged. Surgical Treatment.—The modes of treat- ment now described sometimes fail altogether; the effusion either remains stationary or in- creases, and evidently must destroy the patient in the end: under these circumstances, a re- source is still left in the operation of paracen- tesis, — a procedure which, no matter how divided opinion may be respecting its general feasibility, has assuredly been sufficiently often either completely successful, or productive of marked improvement, to justify its being num- bered among the valuable gifts of surgery. This is a vague estimate of its utility, it may be alleged ; but we fear such vagueness of expression is unavoidable. In truth, there are no existing data from which precise in- ferences may be drawn as to the success of this measure, whether considered generally or in reference to its performance in particu- lar states of the constitution. And this be- cause observers have contented themselves with merely ascertaining the existence of effusion into the pleura of subjects operated on, without inquiring into the condition of the other organs, and, above all, substantiating the presence or absence of pulmonary tuber- culization. How can a correct general infer- ence be obtained, when patients are clubbed together, who have simple chronic pleurisy, or this combined with carious destruction of the ribs; who have or have not serious organic disease in other regions of the body ; whose lungs are sound, or the seat of active tuber- culous disorganization 1 ? During the discus- 1 The descriptions given by certain surgical writers (M. Begin among the number) of the physical signs of empyema, tend to maintain this confusion. Among these sigus is enumerated the production of a sound of fluctuation by shaking the patient’s chest. Now, 1. If there be a proposition established in auscultation, it is sion on the subject of empyema, which took place some years since at the Parisian Aca- demy of Medicine, M. Louis well pointed out the importance of taking the general con- dition of the patient into consideration, when we attempt to estimate the chances of recovery from pleuritic effusion, either with or without paracentesis *. And if we admit Laennec to have been justified in advocating the perform- ance of the operation in the case of tuberculous subjects, because even in them it may be the means of somewhat prolonging life, we must aver that the plea on w'hich he based this advocacy—that a natural cure of tuberculous cavities does sometimes arise—was of rather a visionary character. We strongly doubt that such cure has ever arisen in persons having superadded empyema. The quality of the effusion appears to influ- ence the prognosis of the operation; where this has been purulent from the first, success has more rarely ensued than when sero-albu- minous. But cases have terminated favour- ably, wherein the fluid was, if descriptions of grosser physical characters may be trusted to, really purulent. In instances where the effu- sion consisted of blood, the operation has been attended with more than an average amount of success : this is, however, much less the result of the character of the fluid, than of numerous other circumstances, such as youth of the subject, healthy state of the pleurae, &c. In respect of quantity, the less abundant the effusion, it is said, the stronger the chances of success. Recovery has, nevertheless, fol- lowed when the quantity of fluid amounted to several quarts. Empyema running a chronic course from the outset, is, as we have seen, generally indi- cative of tuberculous disease of the lungs, and is so far an unfavourable species for operation. Yet, inasmuch as the false membrane exuded in such cases is very frequently friable and imperfectly plastic, and the lung therefore less firmly compressed and bound down, than when the solid exudation possesses the oppo- site qualities, one condition conducive to suc- cessful issue—facility of expansion on the part of the lung—is secured. But this ele- ment of success, it is almost needless to add, is more than counterbalanced by the constitu- tional state of the patient. that sound is not thus producible, unless air co-exist with liquid in the pleura (hydropneumothorax). 2. Hydropneumothorax, in ninety-nine out of every hundred cases, at least, arises from perforation of the lung. 3. In ninety-eight out of these ninety-nine, pro- bably, the perforation is a consequence of tuberculous disease. 4. Hence, the fact of the presence of gas in the pleura militates strongly against the success of the operation ; yet cases in which such condition exists would manifestly be included by M. Begin in the same category with those of simple pleurisy. 1 According to the experience of M. Louis, pleurisy with effusion occurring in individuals enjoying perfect health at the time of the attack, is very far from being the serious malady it is commonly imagined to be. Of upwards of one hundred and fifty subjects seized with the disease under these circumstances, M. Louis did not lose a single one. His treatment is most simple, and far from active.