534 BURNS AND SCALDS. temperature ; the former implying the action of dry, the latter that of humid heat. The living tissues are variously affected by the influence of caloric. If that be moderate in degree, an equilibrium may be established without inconvenience. A genial warmth is felt, whence follows a mild reaction, rather favourable than otherwise to a healthful con- dition. Should the heat be more intense, the sensation occasioned by it ceases to be plea- surable, nay amounts to positive pain. If still more excessive, it penetrates the tissues, elevating their temperature, and changing their organic relations. Nature, in order to counteract an elevation of temperature in- compatible with their integrity, directs an afflux of fluids from all sides towards the cen- tre of irritation. In other words the follow- ing physiological phenomena ensue—attenua- tion of the circulating media, dilatation of the minute vessels, and a modified state of the lo- cal irritability, which, under ordinary circum- stances, resists the circulation of red blood in the white vessels. The blood thus impelled into those delicate tubes, by the stimulus of caloric, becomes slower and slower in its course, till it stops. We have, therefore, stasis, redness, swelling, and, from compression of the nervous web, pain is developed. These together constitute inflammatory irritation. When the action is prolonged, or exalted, the animal tissues being, from their organization, no longer capable of tolerating its influence, give way. The force of cohesion is weak- ened, the living resistance destroyed, and vitality annihilated. New combinations are formed between the organic elements. Thus sphacelus results. In the present article we can consider only the results of the influence of heat on the vital textures, without noticing the con- generous effects produced by various chemical substances. These, while they corrode and penetrate the tissues, effect their decompo- sition in a different way. The remarkable facts concerning spontaneous combustion of the human body, we shall not discuss at pre- sent, as we conceive them to be fair matter for separate consideration. The effects of concentrated caloric are nearly the same whether transmitted by radiation or immediate contact. That is, whether the living tissue be removed to a certain distance from, or placed in direct communication with, the hot body. We rarely find, however, as M. Begin 1 observes, that radiant heat, what- ever be its intensity or violence, if emanat- ing from a remote source, occasions severe burning ; because the subject speedily roused to a sense of impending danger, by the pain produced, is naturally led to withdraw himself from its influence, ere any extensive mischief can arise. Dupuytren asserts, indeed, that insolation, especially in tropical climates, is 1 Article Brulurc in Piet, tie Medecine et Cliirur- gie Pratique. Paris, 1830. fraught with imminent peril, by its causing high inflammation, followed by gangrene, and proving fatal on the fourth or fifth day. It appears to us, however, that considerable weight is to be attached to the peculiar influence of climate, in calling into existence and activity morbid predisposition. It is abundantly demonstrated, that under certain circumstances, not easily explained, the most trivial injuries induce inflammatory disease, equally alarming from the intensity of its symptoms, and the rapidity of its course. The consequences of insolation shall be subse- quently described. If, generally speaking, the local effects of irradiation are inconsiderable, far different are these in the case of flame ; which is remark- able not only for its suddenness of action, but likewise for its causing the parts it attacks to contribute to the process of combustion. Thus animal matter, exposed to its scorching influence, parting with its water, becomes dry and parched, assumes a crisp, coriaceous consistence, and emitting a crackling sound, is promptly consumed. While the work of dissolution is going on, empyreumatic oils, and inflammable gaseous compounds, are gene- rated. The flame, thus supplied with fresh fuel, augments in violence, and pursues fur- ther and further its ravages. Every one knows with what prodigious, and often fatal rapidity, clothes, particularly bed-clothes, burn. In this manner, the entire surface of the body is frequently reduced to an incine- rated crust, especially in the instance of help- less infants, or of individuals labouring under the stupor of intoxication, or the coma of apoplexy. The fleeting burst of flame, evolved from the combustion of inflammable gases, as the sub-carburetted or sulphuretted hydrogen, pent up in close chambers ; from the vapours of alcohol, ether, naphtha; from the defla- gration of gunpowder, gives rise to burns, not merely serious from their extent, but ofttimes from their depth. Certain highly combustible substances, such as phosphorus, sulphur, potassium, resins, which pass into fusion, and at the same time undergo chemical changes, occasion very severe injuries. The pain caused by burning potassium is extreme, as it combines the energies of the actual and potential cautery. But of all the causes of burns, one of the most efficient is the direct contact with the living tissue of heated substances. The se- verity of lesion depends on the following cir- cumstances—the nature of the agent, whether solid or liquid—the quantity of free caloric it contains—the duration of application—-and the part of the body involved. The promptitude, intensity, and profoundness of the impression produced, is directly as the temperature of the medium on the one hand, and as its capacity of disengaging, conducting, and transmitting caloric, on the other.