THE CYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL SURGERY. ABAPTISTA from a, privative, and pcnr- to plunge (obsolete). A name used to designate the terebra, or conical-shaped circular saw of the ancient surgeons. Their object in employing an instrument of that shape was to prevent, as the name expresses, its penetrating beyond the bones of the cra- nium, into the dura mater and brain. (For a better means of obviating this accident, see Trephine.) ABDOMEN, venter, alvus. Lat. v7roya<J- rpiov, yacrn'jp, Gr. ventre, bas ventre, Fr. Unterlcib, Bauch, Schmerbauch, Ger. ventre, panda, abdomine, Ital. vientre, barriga, panga. Span, belly, Eng. The abdomen, in Human Anatomy, is the largest of the three visceral cavities; and is situated between the thorax and lower extremities : it derives its appella- tion from the Latin word abdere, in conse- quence of its concealing, as it were, its con- tents. The term applies to the containing and contained parts ; to the walls, and to the organs they enclose. The word cavity is a mere abstraction ; in q e integral state of a living man there is no avity, the entire space being occupied by so- ; of the principal or- gans of digestion, assimilation, secretion, gene- ration, excretion, &c. After premising a few general remarks, we shall therefore consider successively the walls and the cavity of the abdomen. The abdomen is situated before the lumbar portion of the vertebral column; above the pelvis, which may be considered as an appen- dage ; and below the thorax, from which it is separated by the diaphragm, in man and mammalia. Its superior boundaries are not well marked exteriorly ; within, it is defined by the diaphragm, a moveable septum, which alternately enlarges and contracts the two ca- vities, at the expense of each; hence a source of many errors in diagnosis,which are much more frequent than is generally believed. General considerations. In the develop- ment of the human germ, the abdomen is the VOL. I. first part formed ; it is, so to speak, the radicle of the future being : this is so strictly the fact, that the foetus, however imperfect or irregular its formation may otherwise be, is always normal in the respect of possessing this portion of the organism. The abdomen, therefore, whether as regards man or the lower grades of animals, is the point from which the creature springs, and around which, according to his grade in the scale of beings, the other organs are grouped in succession ; the abdomen and its contents are the primi- tive elements, the organs of first formation. In comparing, on the skeleton, the abdomi- nal with the cranial and thoracic cavities, we observe a very striking difference in the bony formation of each. In the cranium, the most perfect physical protection is secured for its contents by their complete envelopment in bones of a certain hardness, formed and joined together in a peculiar manner. In the thorax, bones form a very large por- tion of its limits, and afford ample protection to the contained organs; but as total immo- bility would here be incompatible with the due performance of the functions of these organs, the interosseous spaces are filled up, and the cavity completed by the muscles ne- cessary to the act of respiration. In the construction of the abdomen, we observe a complete contrast with that of the skull: in the latter, motion would be incom- patible with function ; in the former it. is, to a great extent, indispensable. The thorax, as regards mobility, is the mean between these two extremes. The soft parts of the abdo- men, therefore, predominate considerably over the osseous. Of the soft parts themselves, some enjoy great extent of motion, while others are as firmly fixed as the bones to which they adhere. Parietes of the Abdomen.—As ™gards the parietes, therefore, and abstractedly from the nature of the parts that compose them, they may be considered as the moveable or floating,