32 ABSCESS. almost all considerable collections. The wall of the abscess thus accommodating itself to the volume of the fluid, the air is kept exclu- ded, there being no vacuum formed to compel its entrance. The maintenance of this condi- tion in evacuating large abscesses is considered so favourable, that surgery aims at imitating it by the plan of the oft-repeated small punc- tures, instead of large incisions. When air penetrates into the cavity of an abscess, symptoms of increased irritation are speedily observed to follow. The parts cover- ing the abscess become hot; the redness, pain, and tension return in an augmented de- gree, and there is fever of variable intensity. This effect of the admission of atmospheric air has been the subject of controversy. It is generally supposed that the air determines pu- trid decomposition, the elements for which, viz., air, warmth, moisture, and decomposable matter, are all present, and that the inflamma- tion which attacks the puogenic membrane is the consequence of this decomposition. The inflammation of an extensive membrane re-acts on the principal organs of the body, which manifest their sympathy by disturbance of function ; thus explaining the fever, vomiting, diarrhoea, &c. The renewal of the inflamma- tion and the decomposition of the chemical elements impart to the matter issuing from the focus a degree of fetidity that is almost intolerable. These changes are remarkably rapid, for the pus, which at the first opening was of good quality, assumes a bad character; it becomes thin, sanious, and excessively acrid. M. J. Cloquet dissents from this opinion as to the effect of the introduction of air into the abscess, in producing an alteration in the qua- lities of the pus ; he thinks, that the putrid fer- mentation takes place from the want of pres- sure on the fluid, and that gas is evolved from it, whether the atmospheric air be excluded or not. But there is no necessity of adopting either of these opinions literally. It is by no means probable that the pus ot the abscess is thus altered, in consequence of the chemical decomposition of its elements; it is much more rational to suppose that the pus is se- creted of a bad kind, from an unhealthy modi- fication of the organ secreting it. No one entertains any doubt that high constitu- tional irritation follows the opening of these collections, and many persons will be disposed to admit that the inflammation or irritation of internal organs may have a good deal of in- fluence in deteriorating the qualities of the pus, the more especially as air has been known to penetrate into abscesses, without being at- tended with these consequences, and it is also matter of observation, that the condition of the pus, whether of an abscess, or an open wound, alters and becomes worse, when the internal organs are irritated and their func- tions disturbed. But whatever be the value of this reasoning, the exclusion of the air from the cavity of a large abscess is looked upon as a point of some importance, and when secured, is a chance more in favour of the patient. But this advantage cannot be insured with the same facility in all cases, and in some it is wholly unattainable. When the membrane of an abscess is sur- rounded by soft and moveable parts, it may subside so accurately and regularly upon its contents, as to be adjusted to the quantity eva- cuated. But when it is fixed to bones, or im- movable parts, this facility of accommodating itself to the bulk of the fluid is wanting, and the air rushes in whenever the sac and its contents become disproportioned, as inevitably as air rushes into a bottle, from which a fluid is poured out. The mobility of the walls of an abscess has a marked effect in di- minishing the danger arising from the quantity of the suppuration, by facilitating the gradual but rapid adhesion of its sides ; in other words, the danger of exhaustion is often relative to the extent of the suppurating cavity, and the fixity of its walls, independently of the nature of its cause. The puogenic membrane undergoes re- markable changes consequent upon the dis- charge of the contents of the abscess : the greyish flocculent surface becomes more vas- cular, and granulates in the same manner as the surface of a wound; the sides bud out firmly, all tending towards the centre ; the extent of the cavity diminishes rapidly, the sides at last unite, and the cavity disappears. The tissue of new formation is at first plastic or lymphlike; it becomes more and more firmly organized, and is at last undistinguish- able from the cellular structure surrounding it. But it also happens when an abscess is once opened that the purulent matter continues to be furnished for an indefinite period : the pus, however, is the only feature ot the disease that remains the same, for the space which the collection occupied contracts, and the walls become thickened, fibrous, and even cartilagi- nous. Diagnostic of Abscess.—When suppurative inflammation attacks a part, it may run very rapidly through its different periods, more es- pecially if it occur in parts, abounding in the cellular element. The facility of the diagnos- tic, as to physical signs, will be relative to se- veral circumstances, such as the superficiality, or depth of the collection, the mode in which the pus is diffused, its quantity, its liability, on ac- count of situation, to be confounded with aneu- rismal or other tumours, the nature or fluidity of the pus itself, the degree of distension which it makes upon its cyst, its being masked by a strong, thick, and unyielding, aponeurosis, &c. The existence of an abscess is readily recog- nized when the fluid forms a tumour near or under the surface, presenting a soft, salient, deep, red, blueish, or whitened point in the cen- tre, or when the covering of the tumour is thin, and the matter of the collection is fluent; under these circumstances, the local characte- ristic sign, fluctuation, will be most manifest. In order to determine the undulation of the fluid, we should proceed in the following man- ner : the side of the tumour should be covered