557 CALCULUS. j of the hardest structures; whereas, on the con- i trary, if applied in a less degree, and at irre- ) gular intervals, it produces deposit, or ab- I normal growth. In the one case the vessels of deposit are compressed, and growth is im- peded, whilst at the same time those of waste are in continual action, and absorption is the necessary result. In the other case, the de- I gree of compression is sufficient only to excite ! the arteries (the vessels of growth) and de- | posit exceeds the process of absorption. These effects are illustrated by the progress of an aneurismal tumour, on the one hand, which by its continued and daily increasing pressure, causes the absorption of even the bones them- selves. On the other hand, a contrary result is manifested in the growth of a hernia. The size of the hernial tumour varies with the volume of its contents, therefore the pressure varies in degree; there is also but little re- sistance from the yielding structures against which it protrudes ; these textures therefore become gradually thickened as the hernia increases. The parts on which a bunion forms are the projecting ends of bones, and mostly on the toes. It is generally produced by tight shoes or boots, which are worn for some hours of the day, and borne without much pain, and the tight shoe is taken off so that the pressure is for a time remitted. These circumstances limit the degree of pres- sure, so that it acts on the parts as an irritant. The cuticle becomes thickened, and the cel- lular and fibrous parts beneath consolidated and condensed, these changes forming them into the structure we are describing. The bunion is the bursa, with the cuticle but slightly thickened ; the corn has an additional deposit of cuticle, w ith a bursa beneath it. The bunion is liable to inflame and sup- purate, becoming a very painful and trouble- some complaint. The treatment of this affec- tion is very simple : in the first stages to reduce the inflammation by rest and poultices, and relieving the part from pressure by mechanical means. In the suppurative stage, to freely incise it, and cause the surface to granulate. The secreting surface is difficult to excite to granu- lation, but if it is not found to do so, the object will be accomplished by the application of the nitrate of silver, or a small quantity of nitric acid. In this case the destruction of the lining membrane is necessary to the cure. Accumulations of fluid in the bursae will be noticed under Hydarthrosis. Bibliography—Key, Guy’s H. Reports. Brodie, Lecture on Corns and Bunyons. Med. Gazette, vol. 17, p. 775. Dupuytren, Letjons de Clin. Chi- rurg. Mayo, Outlines of Pathology, London, 1837. c. CACHEXY, (from icanos, bad, and e£ir, habit, cachexia, I.at.; Kachexie, Ger. Wasting, or depraved alteration of the body. In the progress of medical language, this term has sometimes been used as signifying a particular disease, or as an accompaniment of disease in various forms, and hence the names, cance- rous, scorbutic, and venereal cachexy, &c. Of late years, the necessity of rejecting vague terms altogether, or of limiting their value in order to a permanent usefulness of them, has induced Chomel and other pathologists to fix the meaning of cachexy, as the state of wasting consequent upon certain chronic dis- eases in their advanced stages ; and in this respect, therefore, it differs from diathesis, w'hich exists in the early stages, and may even be supposed to precede the disease itself, to which it may be regarded as a pre- disposing condition, while cachexy, on the contrary, is but the effect of the alteration produced in the organs of the body. CESARIAN SECTION. See Gastro- UTEROTOMY. CALCULUS, from calx, lime, Lat.; \i6os, Gr.; calcul, pierre, Fr.; Stein, Ger. The term Cai .culus has been used generally to signify such accidental, solid, and unorganized concre- tions, as are produced within the bodies of living animals. Calculi are, therefore, as might have been presumed, of very different kinds ; dif- ferent in their mode of origin, in their nature, and in their effects upon the economy in which they are formed. The more important and interesting, and those also to which the title calculus is most properly applied, are encoun- tered in the ducts of the different secreting glands, and in the course of the intestinal canal. Calculi are, for instance, occasionally found in the lachrymal duct, or sac; they occur more frequently in the ducts of the salivary glands, still more commonly in the biliary ducts and gall bladder, and with like, or perhaps, even greater frequency, in the course of the excretory canals of the urine. Calculi of the intestines are comparatively rare in the human subject; but they are com- mon enough among the lower animals, espe- cially the vegetable feeders, in which they generally consist of masses of hair, or of the indigestible w'oody fibre of their food matted together and agglutinated by means of mucus and a salt of lime. It is to the calculi pro- duced by deposition from the various secreted fluids that attention will be mainly directed in the following article. The fluids secreted by animal bodies in- variably contain some portion of saline or concrescible matter dissolved in the watery menstruum, which, in every case, composes their principal mass. These saline and con- crescible matters, as they are of various kinds, so they also possess very various degrees of solubility, and are therefore liable, in different degrees, to be precipitated from their menstrua, and to assume the solid form which belongs