ANEURISM. 233 As soon as the tumour made its appear- ance, cough and dyspnoea, with which he had been some time affected, ceased to be trouble- some, and his general health was soon re-esta- blished. The situation of the tumour, its sudden ap- pearance after a violent fit of coughing, and its soft pulsating character, led Mr. Evans to conclude that the root of the carotid artery was chiefly the seat of the disease. The patient was bled to the extent of eight ounces every third day, and he was enjoined to remain in bed and to live on small quantities of gruel, broth, and tea ; small doses of digitalis were likewise administered. From this treatment there appeared some little improvement during the first month, but afterwards the symptoms increased, and finally the tumour reached as high as the cricoid cartilage, partially im- peding both respiration and deglutition by its pressure on the trachea and oesophagus. His shirt collar, which, prior to his illness, could button comfortably, could not now be made to meet by upwards of three inches. His countenance became bleached, his pulse feeble, and it was considered that the depletive sys- tem of treatment had been carried as far as it could be with safety. Under these circum- stances the operation of tying the carotid artery was performed. In consequence of the tumour extending so high up the neck, Mr. Evans found some difficulty in dissecting down to the sheath of the artery, which he laid open to the extent of half an inch; the vessel was easily secured by a single ligature of strong silk. Immediately after tightening the ligature the pulsations in the different branches of the ex- ternal carotid ceased except a slight fluttering in the extreme branches of the temporal; but the pulsation of the tumour was not dimi- nished. On the day following the operation the pulsation in the tumour was stronger than before the operation, and the pulsation of the radial artery of the right side was now more forcible than that of the left. One of the most remarkable symptoms which afterwards occurred was the oblitera- tion of the arteries of the right-arm arid fore- arm, which change was first observed in the arteries of the fore-arm on the eighth day after the operation, for until that day the arteries of that arm pulsated with greater force than those of the left. This process of obliteration was attended with severe pa- roxysms of pain, chiefly felt in the course of the brachial and axillary arteries. The brachial artery, after its obliteration, was hard and painful to the touch; the arm wasted and be- came partially paralysed, and its bulk con- tinued to diminish for three weeks, at the expiration of which period, several anastomo- sing branches were observed pulsating on the back part of the arm. As these vessels en- larged, the limb improved, though slowly, nor did it perfectly acquire its powers of motion and sensation until three months afterwards. On the eleventh day after the operation the patient was attacked with paroxysms of pain in the right side of the head and face, which continued about a fortnight, and the pain was of the same character, though not so violent as he had experienced in the right- arm. The right side of the head and face at the same time became emaciated, and any one could immediately discover that the right half of the face was much smaller than the left. The blood afterwards found its way into the temporal and facial arteries, and the right side of the face then became nearly as plump as the left. Three weeks after the operation he got out of bed, and then perceived that the whole of the right side was numbed and weaker than the left. The pulsation in the tumour, which had hitherto been more powerful than before the artery was tied, now began to diminish rapidly; and on the thirty-third day after the operation, it had so much dimi- nished, that it was doubtful whether the swelling arose from the passage of blood into the sac, or from an impulse given to the tu- mour from the subclavian artery. In five weeks after the operation, he was sufficiently recovered to take exercise daily on horse- back, and from that time he continued to im- prove in health and resumed his usual avoca- tions. Nine years have now elapsed since the operation, and I have learnt from Mr. Evans that this patient “ continues to enjoy most excellent health, but that his right-arm has not yet recovered its usual fulness and strength though nearly so.” The third case of aneurism of the innomi- nata, in which this mode of operating was adopted, was under the care of Dr. Mott, Professor of Surgery at New York, an ac- count of which case I received from him along with the subjoined letter; the testi- mony and approbation of so distinguished an individual was at that time the more gratifying to me, as some persons, not satisfied with disputing the opinions I had advanced, endea- voured, for unworthy purposes, to impugn the veracity of statements which so many mem- bers of the profession, had ample opportu- nities of ascertaining to be strictly correct. Sir,—With much pleasure I send you the accompanying case of Aneurism of the Innomi- nata, treated by tying the carotid artery. It is the first of the kind which has been per- formed in this country, and I am persuaded that its success will he interesting to you, as additionally confirmatory of the great princi- ple so ably and so fully established by your- self, which improvement must be numbered with the greatest in modern surgery; confer- ring upon the talent, genius, and acquire- ments of its advocate the highest honour and the most lasting fame. As applied to aneurismal tumours, hitherto deciding the fate of the patient, and pro- nouncing him the certain victim of incurable disease, it must receive the approbation of the profession and the gratitude of the phi-