CERATES. 765 slight, the uterine pains will suffice to expel the head after the perforator has been used. This, however, is a rare occurrence, for in the majority of those unhappy cases the basis of the skull remains either impacted in the pelvis or above its brim, until removed by artificial force. In all such instances the crotchet should be introduced through the opening in the cranium, and fixed upon the petrous bone, or such projection of the sphenoid bone, or occiput, as seems to afford a firm fixture, or on the outside of the base of the skull, at the pubis. The operator should then pull gently, to try the hold of the instrument, and if it be secure, he should draw in the direction of the axis of the brim by cautious and repeated efforts, exerting, at the same time, as much force as may be necessary to overcome the difficulty. As a safeguard to the soft parts, in case the instrument should slip, the opera- tor should never omit to keep some of the fingers in the vagina and on the infant’s cra- nium. If the force be cautiously and judi- ciously directed, he will in general feel the in- strument slipping or tearing the bone before it finally gives way. In extracting the head, he should co-operate as much as possible with the pains. In performing the foregoing opera- tion, the craniotomy forceps, now used, is considered safer than the pincers-shaped ex- tractor, and preferable to the crotchet; one blade of this forceps goes within the bone and scalp, and the other without. Dr. Davis re- commends a kind of bone-nippers, which he calls an ostcotomist; with this instrument he says he has so broken the cranium as to bring it through a machine with an aperture of only one inch diameter. The force requisite to bring down the base of the skull, even when the pelvis is barely so small as to prevent the application of the for- ceps, is often much greater than is required in forceps cases. It is, therefore, a mistake to suppose that because the head is opened, the delivery must of necessity be easy. For further particulars relating to this operation, see the articles Crotchet, Parturition, and Pelvis. ( Thomas H. Burgess.J CERATES (cerata, from pi>£, wax). Compositions of wax, oil, or lard, with or without other ingredients. Cerates take their name from the wax which enters into their composition, and to which they owe their consistence, being in- termediate between that of plaistcrs and that of ointments : though no very definite rule for this consistence is either given or ob- served. Cerates should be newly prepared or fre- quently renewed, as they arc apt to turn rancid very soon, especially if there is much aerated water incorporated with them, as occurs, for instance, in the Ceratum Galeni : when rancid they acquire properties directly the opposite of those which belong to fresh cerates. Simple and fresh cerates, says M. Guersent, are soothing and emollient when applied to abraded surfaces. They produce an agreeably refreshing sensation when ap- plied to burned or inflamed parts, and pre- serve ulcers and w'ounds from the contact of the atmosphere ,• they tend to assuage pain, and prevent irritating bodies from adhering to wounds, or other broken surfaces, and pro- mote the cicatrization of suppurating sores, provided, however, that the diseased tissues are not too much relaxed; for then, like emollients, they increase the suppuration, and consequently retard the process of cicatriza- tion. In such instances they would require to be tonic, or astringent. Although simple cerates are in constant use in practical surgery, they are occasionally inconvenient, even when not rancid, in con- sequence of producing pustular eruptions, or erysipelatous inflammations, in individuals whose skins are peculiarly susceptible of irri- tation or of inflammation. In cases of this kind, the cerates should be replaced by simple mucilaginous decoctions. The following are the cerates most fre- quently employed in this country, and those which are recognised by the London Phar- macopoeia. Simple cerate (ceratum simplex ). Olive oil four fluid ounces, wax four ounces ; add the oil to the melted wax, and mix them. Used as a cooling dressing, and as a basis for more active ingredients. Cerate of calamine (ceratum calaminee J. Ca-- lamine and wax, of each half a pound, olive oil sixteen fluid ounces ; mix the oil with the melted wax, then remove them from the fire, and when first they begin to thicken add the calamine, and stir constantly until they begin to cool. This is well known by the name of Turner’s cerate, is used as a dressing to exco- riations and ulcers, and to burns after the inflammation has subsided. Cerate of cantharides ( ceratum cantharidis ). Cantharides, rubbed to very fine powder, one ounce, spermaceti cerate six ounces; having softened the cerate by heat, add the flies, and mix them together. Use : to promote the discharge from blistered surfaces ; but as it is liable to occasion strangury, swelling of the lymphatics, general irritation, &c. in some in- dividuals, the savine cerate is now pretty generally substituted for it. Cerate of spermaceti (ceratum cetacei J. Spermaceti two ounces, white wax eight ounces, olive oil a pint ; add the oil to the spermaceti and wax melted together, and stir with a spatula until they cool. This cerate is cooling and emollient, and is applied to excoriations, &c.; it may be used with advantage in all ulcers, where no stimu- lating substance can be applied, being ex- tremely mild and unctuous. Compound cerate of mercury (ceratum hy- drargyri composition J. Stronger ointment of mercury, soap cerate, of each four ounces.