803 COMPRESSION. grain of small shot entered the left eyeball immediately above the upper edge of the cor- nea. Nine days after the accident, Dr. Mac- kenzie 1 saw the patient, and found the eye in the state represented by the figure. There was a red vesicle-like protrusion of the choroid at the, place where the grain had entered the eye, and round this the sclerotica was consi- derably depressed. The iris was deficient at its upper part, which had been torn through by the grain of shot. The eye finally became atrophic. Bibliography.—The congenital malformation of the iris treated of in this article appears to have been first described and delineated by Thomas Bartholin, in “ Acta medica et philosophies Hafniensia,” ami. 1671 et 1672. Hafn. 1673, 4. p. 62. Albinus de- scribed a case in his “ Annotat. acad.” lib. vi. Leidas, 1764, p. 49. It was next noticed by Bloch, in his “Mcdicinische Bemerkungen,” &c. Berlin, 1774. Professor Walther, who first proposed for it the name of Coloboma Iridis, recorded a case in his “ Abliand- htngen aus dem Gebiete der practischen Mcdicin,” p. 72. Landshut, 1810; and afterwards discussed the subject more fully in a memoir entitled “ Ueber einen bisher nicht beschriebcnen angebornen Bildungsfebler dcr Rcgenbogenhaut, nebst cinigen Bemerkungen iiber angeborne Missbildungen uberhaupt,” in the “ Journal fur die Chirurgie und Augenheilkunde,” edited by himself and Professor Graefe, vol. ii. p. 601. Berlin, 1821. Since then the subject has occupied the attention of several others in Germany. See dif- ferent memoirs in “Ammon’s Zeitschrift fur die Op- thalmologie,” and also in his “ Monatsscbrift fur Me- dian, Augenheilkunde und Chirurgie,” vol. iii. p. 59. Leipzig, 1840. In this country the subject has been handled by Dr. Mackenzie in an interesting memoir contained in the “ Medical Gazette,” vol. ix. p. 738. London, 1832. It will be seen that this memoir has been laid under contribution in the composition of the present article. (T. Wharton Jones.) COMMINUTION. The crushing or frac- ture of bone, by which it is broken into numerous splinters or fragments. COMMOTION. Sec Concussion. COMPRESS, (from comprimo, to press upon ; splenium plagula, Lat.; B'duschleim, Ger.) a pad formed of folds of linen, lint, rag, caoutchouc, or other material. Compresses vary in shape and substance according to the object for which they are employed, and perform an important part in many surgical ministrations. Their office appertains in some respects to that of bandages ; as, for instance, in filling up void spaces, by which means the pressure of bandages is rendered more firm and even-—retaining in their proper places such remedies as may be applied—protecting injured parts from the contact of the air, from external shocks, or even from the pressure of splints or other materials that may have been employed in the dressings. Particular names are given to them, derived from their shape, situation, use, &c.; hence the tong, square, circular, triangular, and graduated compresses ; these last are formed by placing pieces of lint, 3 Op. cit. p. 349. of gradually increasing sizes, one upon an- other, the smallest being in contact with the part upon which pressure is to be made. COMPRESSION, from comprimo, Lat. Zusammendruclcung, Ger. A remedial agent, of great value in surgery, and by which pres- sure is made by mechanical means on the or- ganic tissues. The indications to its employ- ment are exceedingly various, and its effects vary according to the degree, mode, and dura- tion with which it is applied. It exercises considerable power to alter the condition of any tissue to which it may be applied, whether to produce disease or to cure it, whether to increase the growth of parts or to cause their diminution ; and, as entering into the detail of almost every ordinary duty of the practical surgeon, it merits more attention than has been given to it hitherto. Compression, like any other mechanical power, presents to us the complete theory of the lever : viz. a power acting by pressure, a fulcrum, and a point of resistance, which is the tissue itself upon which the pressure is thus brought to bear. It may be applied in such a manner as to act from the surface towards the centre: and this mode of it is termed concentric pressure, or compression properly so called ; or from the centre towards the surface, or excentric pressure, to which the name which expresses its effect is applied, namely, dilatation. But whatever be the mode of its application, its effects are due to its power of condensing the tissues, and of retarding or impeding altogether the influx of the circulating fluids ; these effects being ac- cording to circumstances, support, deposit, absorption, or gangrene. When exerted in a slight degree only, it simply gives support, and in this way affords excellent assistance to weakened parts. When more forcibly applied, and for a short period, it induces an increase of growth of natural or diseased parts; and, when carried to a greater degree still, it is capable of producing the ab- sorption of morbid deposits, or even healthy structures ; and, in its last degree of severity, is occasionally used, with a view to produce the death of parts or their mortification. We shall consider the subject in the order of these effects, showing the process by which each effect is produced, and under what cir- cumstances each amount of pressure may be surgically useful. The effect of compression in its lightest form, is to give support to weakened parts,—a fact with which we cannot fail to be impressed when we observe the natural bandages which are placed around the important organs of the body for their preservation in a state of health. The investing membranes of the brain, heart, liver, kidneys, testicle, serve not only as shields from external injury, but also from the friction of their surfaces in the va- rious movements of the body ; they also con- tribute much to the tone of the blood-vessels entering into fhe intimate texture of those 3 F 2