580 CALCULUS. gravel. He bad heard of the benefit which gravelly subjects derive from the use of Sel- tzer water, or aqua mephetica alkalina, one of the principal saline ingredients of which is bi-carbonate of soda. This water he tried, and found benefit from it. It seems to have struck Mascagni that he might improve upon ihe mineral water by taking its active saline matter or a matter of the same nature in larger quantity. Accordingly, on experiencing another attack in 1799, during which he void- ed concretions of considerable size, he put himself upon a course of carbonate of potash, beginning with a dram dissolved in half a pint of water the first day, and increasing the dose till he took three drams dissolved in a pint of water, a quantity which he continued regular- ly for ten days. The urine was strongly acid when this treatment was begun ; the second day it had undergone very little change, but on the third, it was neutral. The pain in the kidneys now declined in violence, and no more grit or gravel was passed. By and by the pain ceased entirely, the urine appeared less loaded, and the alkali was recognized in it in excess. The medicine was now sus- pended, and several months elapsed before any farther symptoms of gravel were felt. On their recurrence on different occasions subsequently, Mascagni always resorted to his old remedy, and always with success. The fits gradually became more and more remote, and at the time of his writing, two years had elapsed without one having been experienced, though no carbonate of potash had been taken in all that time. So remarkable a case as this, related by so remarkable a man, ought to have arrested at- tention more than it seems to have done ; but it was just about this time that chemistry suc- cessfully investigated the nature of calculous concretions, and the most common of all being found very readily soluble in the caustic alkalis, these medicines began to be exhibited in this shape, in which they are both extreme- ly disgusting to the palate, and from their acrimony hardly to be taken in quantity enough to accomplish the object of their ex- hibition. Numerous failures and much disap- pointment ensued, and the alkalis very unde- servedly fell into discredit as remedies in numerous forms of calculous complaint. The pure or caustic alkalis, even supposing they were neither distasteful nor acrimonious, have in fact no advantage in their action on lithic concretions over the bicarbonates which are now generally employed with undoubted success. In prescribing the bicarbonate of potash or soda, it is of great moment that they be exhi- bited in a state of very plentiful dilution. It is this condition much more than the quan- tity of the salts taken that secures their effi- ciency. Equal quantities of some of the na- tural mineral waters that actually contain but one or less than one part of bicarbonate of soda in 200 of the fluid, are more potent in rendering the urine alkaline than a solution of the same salt in the ratio of one to fifty or sixty. A drachm, or at most two drachms ofthe salt in from a pint and a half to three pints of fluid, is the proper proportion ; and this quan- tity may be taken at intervals in the course of the day, with the effect of powerfully increas- ing the activity of the kidneys, speedily put- ting an end to the acid state of the urine, and either washing out lithic grit and concretions of late formation from the pelvis of the kid- ney, from the ureter or bladder, or disinte- grating and dissolving them, wherever they chance to be arrested. Should the urine not become neutral in the course of a day, the quantity of the alkali may be increased. The bicarbonate of soda in particular may be taken in very large doses for a succession of years without the least detriment to the general health. The writer was acquainted with a me- dical practitioner in this metropolis, who for the last twenty years of his life had not gone to bed any night without swallowing two small rhubarb pills, which he washed down with a handful of bicarbonate of soda, stirred into, rather than dissolved in, a glass of water. This gentleman had a weak stomach, and suffered from the generation of acid in the prim® via1, but at seventy-two he was as active as most men are at fifty, and he looked ruddy and well; indeed the writer has observed that individuals who habitually make use of bicar- bonate of soda to neutralize acid in the sto- mach, have unusually brilliant complexions, a circumstance which recent discoveries enable us to explain. When circumstances permit, the best of all modes of taking the bicarbonate of soda, is to repair to the well-head of some of the natural mineral waters in which it is contained. The mineral waters of Vichy in particular, which hold in solution about one part of bicar- bonate of soda in 200 of the menstruum, quickly render the urine of the drinker neutral or alkaline, and afford great relief to the un- happy sufferer with gravel and urinary calcu- lus. The waters of Selters, Obersalzbrunn', Aix la Chapelle, Pouges, Spa. Carlsbad, &c., also contain carbonate of soda in variable and smaller quantities, and have long deservedly enjoyed much celebrity for their virtues in certain forms of gravelly complaints. But it is not necessary to travel so far as France, Germany, or Bohemia, for water impregnated with carbonic acid and holdinga little bicarbon- ate of soda in solution ; this can be prepared on the spot anywhere, and if a man will but con- sent to pay some little attention to his health, to follow a regulated diet, and to spare both his mind and body for a season from the worry of business and the eager pursuit of gain, he 1 Sec an interesting case of nephritic calculus brought away, and a long period of suffering from gravelly com- plaints completely removed by the use of this water, in the person of Hr. Lebenheim, of Trcbnitz, related by himself, in vol. xlix. of Rust’s Magazin. He voided as many as twenty calculi of different sizes at once. The pelvis of one if not of both kidneys must have been full of concretions.