110 AMBULANCE. In addition to these, the assistant surgeons should carry a small leather haversack, with a cover buttoning down to contain their pocket instruments, several pairs of locking or torsion forceps, a few light dressings, pins, sponges, &c. &c. The hospital sergeant should be equipped with a larger leathern haversack for additional dressings, sponges, tourniquets, wax candles, and the means of striking a light. Incalculable difficulties and serious accidents are frequently encountered from neglect in carrying wax candles and lanthorns. This extensive distribution in small quantities of surgical materials and medicines will greatly tend to diminish transport, and render them more available in the assistance of the sick and wounded. Nothing can surpass the dis- tress a surgeon experiences in action, when the bat horses have been delayed in the rear ; medical officers should therefore be indepen- dent of this casualty, and always have with them dressings for at least 100 or 150 cases ; the lint, rollers, and adhesive plaster required for that number would be of very trifling weight when thus divided. It will appear by this arrangement that the portable material will be in the first line, the light carriages in the second, and the heavier conveyances in reserve. In surgical equipments great atten- tion should be paid to the fracture splints, which should be of sufficient solidity to pro- tect the limb from the jolting which the wounded must more or less experience on bad roads. Stump pillows, made of the patent India rubber, to be inflated when required, should also be provided, as they will be found of the greatest utility and comfort in cases of amputation. Every experienced surgeon must have frequently wished for such an in- valuable aid when obliged to prop the suf- ferer’s limb with stones, knapsacks, or any other support they can find at hand. The perfect manner in which this cloth is now pre- pared by the patentee, and the variety of uses for which it is daily made available, recom- mend it strongly for many important applica- tions in the field, such as tents, beds, pillows, seats, over-all coats, water skins, &c.; but the screw-stopper, for inflating the beds, pillows, and seats, should be of a simpler and better construction than that in present use. Duties of Medical Officers and the Ambu- lance or Hospital Corps in action.—If zeal, talent, and industry are requisite qualities of a medical man in camps and quarters, it is more especially when contending armies meet that all his energies should be collected. W bile warlike preparations occupy the military leaders, the army-surgeon, calm amidst the surrounding storm, must be ready to meet with fortitude and deliberation the contingen- cies of war, and assist with promptitude and with vigour the victims of the conflict. He cannot at this anxious moment expect that military chiefs can bestow a thought upon his duties, or regulate his arrangements ; he alone stands answerable to his country, that her wounded soldiers are assisted with diligence and attended with care. Medical assistance in battle should be divided into three lines ; 1. In the rear of each brigade and within range of musketry, but protected as far as possible by any favourable feature of the country, or buildings, there should be sta- tioned a portion of the hospital corps with the bearers and their canteens filled with w ater. These men should be placed under the di- rection of a regimental assistant-surgeon, who w ill not delay the wounded, but merely apply indispensable dressings and accelerate their speedy removal to the second line. For this purpose the bearers should form a chain of posts along the entire rear of the line, and according to the proposed distribution, a bri- gade of three thousand men would be assisted by sixty men of the corps with thirty bearers; each post of the chain should then consist of ten men and a corporal ; the spare drummers and pioneers w ould lend additional aid, and on no account whatever should drummers, musicians, or others, non-combatants, be left in charge of their officers’ horses ; proper bat- men, or servants, should be attached lor that service. In the second line, out of range of musketry, should be established the brigade field-hospital, distinguished by a large camp colour. Here should be found the regimental surgeons, with their assistants, together with the spring-waggons and cars ; at this post the wounded must be dressed, cases requiring im- mediate operations attended to, the wounded placed upon the spring-waggons, or cars, and hence, the bearers, having deposited the wounded, should be sent back to the first line. In the rear of the centre of each division wrill be formed the divisional field-hospital, which, if possible, should be out of the range of artillery ; this post should be attended by the staff-surgeons of brigades and their assistants, and here operations will be performed, and the wounded assembled to be sent still further to the rear, by the reserve conveyance, or such additional means of transport as the com- missariat of the army may procure ; for the spring-w aggons and cars belonging to the am- bulance should immediately return to the second line of assistance. At this third or divisional post the store-waggons will be un- loaded, tents pitched if necessary, the folding stretchers for operation put up, and weak broth and spirits and water prepared for the wounded. The principal medical officer in the field, with the commanding officer of the hospital corps, should be held responsible for the regu- larity of the service in these three lines of assistance,—replacing from the second line to the first and from the third to the second any casualties amongst the medical officers that may occur during the action. In the esta- blishment of field-hospitals the quartermaster- general should be consulted, that they may not be formed on points likely to be drawn into the circle of operation. The strictest orders should be given to prevent medical offi-