AMBULANCE. Ill cers of regiments from proceeding to the rear with their commanding officers when wounded, an abuse which has too frequently prevailed. While these arrangements are made in the field, evacuating hospitals should be formed in the towns or villages in the rear of the army, where the wounded can be accommodated, and where bedding may be procured from the inhabitants, and means of transport impressed. When the army advances, the first and second lines of medical assistance should also move forwards. On the other hand, when a retreat is commanded, the first and second lines should fall back on the rear, but without precipita- tion or confusion. If a sudden occurrence should force the troops to abandon their posi- tion, the medical officers of the first and second line, with the hospital corps, should immediately fall back on the third or divi- sional hospital, where no great accumulation of wounded should be found, as from the very commencement of the action, precautions had been taken that the wounded should gra- dually, but rapidly be sent to the rear. How desirable it w'ould be in these moments of un- avoidable confusion, that the surgeons of European armies should wear a distinguishing mark for their protection,—a plume, or aigrette of black horse-hair, which could be worn in all weathers, would be the most easily recognised, and by mutual accord respected. A victorious army either moves on to further operations or halts upon the field of battle. In the first case, regimental surgeons should proceed with their corps, and the brigade medical staff follow, when the wounded are sent to the rear, the third line would be reinforced with surgeons from the general medical staff. When our troops re- main upon the field, and the enemy have fallen back, the medical officers of the second post should proceed to the front of the line of battle with spring-waggons and cars to collect the wounded that may have been left by the skirmishers. As this operation would most probably be conducted during the night, a few torches should be carried by the hospital corps, to facilitate this important and humane search, which is too frequently neglected. Should the fortune of war have compelled us to retreat, the third line should dispatch to the rear every case for which they can find tran- sport, lest any of the waggons should fall into the enemy’s hands ; all the cases that cannot be removed should then be collected in houses, or if none are on the spot, in fields off the high road, that they may not be exposed to the ill usage of the light troops of the ene- my sent in pursuit. The spot where the wounded are thus collected should be distin- guished by a large black flag, and a staff- surgeon, with sufficient assistants, left with them. In future wars it is to be hoped that feel- ings of humanity will induce belligerent powers not to consider army-surgeons left with the wounded as prisoners. On these painful occasions, sufficient dressings should 12 be also left, as we cannot depend upon the medical stores of the enemy, which may be exhausted, or of an inferior quality. When surgeons are thus placed on duty with an ene- my, they must bear in mind that the welfare of our wounded will in a great degree depend upon the propriety of their conduct. No irritation of mind from disappointment, no national feeling should induce them to enter into unpleasant discussions. They should especially endeavour to cultivate a friendly intercourse with their medical brethren, care- fully avoiding altercations on professional points, in which most probably they may differ. A deviation from this prudential course has often proved the source of jealous- ies and animosities, from which the wounded ultimately suffered. When the enemy’s wounded are numerous, and their surgeons are not in sufficient numbers to attend to them, we should invariably volunteer our assistance should our own duties afford us leisure. Such a line of conduct is ever appre- ciated, and cannot fail to lead to ultimate reciprocal advantages and good feeling. Napoleon, in the North of Spain, having accidentally seen one of our assistants1, dress- ing some of his wounded, immediately ordered one hundred Napoleons to be sent to him, with a passport to proceed to Paris, accompanied with a letter recommending him to the minis- ter of war, whom he directed to give him a free admission to the hospitals and schools of the French capital. In cases where the wounded of the enemy fall into our hands, we should be careful to keep them as much as possible separate from our own, and surgeons understanding their language should be preferred in the selection of their medical attendants. These wounded men should be collected on a given spot, made known to the enemy by a flag of truce, that they may send conveyance for them, and thus relieve our own means of transport, seldom sufficient for all casualties. In night attacks the difficulty of collecting and attending the wounded is incredible, as in these operations, which are usually coups de main, the darkest nights are selected. Fires to point out the stations of the surgeons would be desirable, were they not incompatible with military pru- dence. Torches and lanthorns should, there- fore, be put up at every medical point to direct the bearers. The position once carried, fires may then be kindled wherever the wounded are assembled. By the foregoing distribution of medical men and the hospital corps, allowing to each regimental and staff- surgeon two assistants, an army of thirty thousand, which we shall suppose formed of six divisions, twelve brigades, and forty batal- lions, would be attended, in the first line of succour, by twelve assistants and three hun- dred bearers ; forty surgeons, and sixty-eight 1 The late surgeon Brown of the 50th regiment. The emperor would not liberate him, on the plea that we had been the first to consider army-surgeons as prisoners of war.