550 BURNS AND SCALDS. lion of the sore. When the surface of the latter is very great, it ought to be imme- diately covered with successive layers of fine fleece cotton, which must be retained in close apposition by means of a band- age. Thus the discharged fluid is absorbed, the tender granulations protected from in- jury, and cicatrization vastly promoted. In certain cases, when the pus is confined by the crust formed with the cotton, an aperture must be made into it with the scissors, the fluid evacuated, and fresh cotton made to supply its place. When the suppuration is excessive, saturnine lotions have been em- ployed with advantage. I had occasion to witness their efficacy in the case of a patient of Dupuytren’s, in the Hotel Dieu at Paris. The greater part of the leg had been deeply burnt, exposing the bone, and over the ex- tensive suppurating surface epithems, imbued with a solution of lead, were applied. The result was a gradual diminution of the dis- charge, cicatrization of the sore, and perfect restoration to health. The noxious effects to be apprehended from the absorption of lead into the system during its external employ- ment, might advantageously, I think, be com- bated by the exhibition of sulphates of soda or potash or hydroguretted waters. When the ulcer is moderate in size, it may be rapidly healed by the water-dressing de- scribed above. If the surface is irritable and painful, solutions of the narcotic extracts, as conium, &c., or the liquor opii sedativus, di- luted with water, may be advantageously ap- plied. If the surface is pale and languid, tonics and stimulants, as the pulv. cinchonse, the balsams, especially that of Peru, and Bar- badoes naphtha will be proper. According to Dr. Donnellan, the ung. calamin. is an ex- cellent application. The cerate ought to be thinly spread over a piece of lint, pierced with numerous holes : if too thickly applied portions will be left behind on the skin, which may irritate to such a degree as to occasion erysipelasWhen again the granulations are luxuriant and spongy, styptics and escha- rotics are indicated. From twenty to twenty- five grains of nitrate of silver, dissolved in an ounce of pure water, forms an excellent lotion. The addition of a little opium les- sens the pain of the application, and does not interfere with its catheretic properties. A viscid sebaceous secretion is apt to form on the new skin in some cases ; this ought always to be gently removed. When the mar- gin is tender, it should be dressed with sepa- rate pieces of lint. The absolute importance of a light hand and assiduous attention are never to be forgotten. A careless and harsh removal of the dressing may be the means of tearing away the new skin, and undoing the work of many days. The exposure to the air also gives pain. The surface therefore should onty be exposed by parts, and of course dressed by parts. The excessive tendency to union of parts 1 Precis sur la Brftlure. after burns, depends probably on a kind of abiding erethism in the sore. The granu- latious become firm, solid, and of a bright red, and it appears that the more these cha- racters are marked, the force with which parts are attracted to each other is proportionally greater. M. Begin ingeniously suggests, that capillary bleeding from the surface of the sore, conjoined with the continued application of relaxing and narcotic epithems, as emollient poultices imbued with solution of opium, would prove efficacious against this excessive contractility by reducing it to the condition of an ordinary sore. M. Velpeau mentions, that when the plan of strapping with diachylon plaister is adopted, the cicatrization does not proceed from the circumference to the centre, that is, by con- vergence, but simultaneously by layers over the whole surface of the sore ; for which reason the extent of burns exerts no influence whatever on the duration of cure, a large burned surface requiring, according to him, no longer time for healing than a small one. The cicatrix is firm, solid, and without ir- regularity J. When the fingers or toes have been de- stroyed by fire, their separation is effected nearly as an ordinary eschar. It is sometimes necessary to divide with scissors the liga- mentous cords or flaps of tendon by which they may still adhere2. In those cases where an extremity has been completely charred by combustion, amputa- tion is the only resource. Is the operation to be retarded till such time as the first effects of the accident be past, or is it to be imme- diately performed ? I am disposed to coincide with those surgeons who contend, that when no hope of saving the limb remains, and the limits of mortification are well-defined, ampu- tation is indicated. In this way the patient escapes the sufferings from violent inflamma- tion, which would be necessarily set up in the neighbouring sound parts, and also any sym- pathetic accidents which might ensue. If, however, there is any chance that the part may prove afterwards in some measure useful, and the patient is sufficiently robust to resist the various complicated evils to which he may be subjected, then let the operation be post- poned. Amputation is also demanded, when upon the separation of the eschar, a large articula- tion is opened, or when the sores are so ex- tensive, deep, and irregidar, that no reason- able hope of their cure can be entertained. Constitutional treatment. — In superficial burns that occupy a limited extent, there is no necessity for exhibiting internal remedies, or changing in any respect the diet or regi- men of the patient. But in cases of severe injury, it is far otherwise. If the patient be in a state of collapse, the pulse weak, and the extremities cold, stimulants are to be admi- nistered to rally the flagging powers, and 1 Lib. cit. 2 Diet, dc Med.