706 CATARACT. the ciliary processes to the anterior wall of the capsule of fhe lens. The posterior wall of the capsule is supplied with blood by the cap- sular branch of the central artery of the retina. The crystalline lens forms an important part of the visual organ. Its functions are those of a double convex lens, for refracting and concentrating the rays of light, which enter the eye upon the principle of an acro- matic lens. From the situation of the lens, almost the whole of the light which enters the eye must pass through it, as well as through the other humours. Hence, when the crys- talline lens becomes opaque, it forms an ob- struction to the light, which prevents the rays from reaching the retina. Opacity of the lens, therefore, does not impair the sensibility or functions of the other parts ; it only acts like a curtain, interposed between the luminous body and the sentient part of the eye. As the rays of light are not refracted in the eye by the crystalline lens alone, this body may be removed from the axis of vision, and its refractive power compensated by the use of glasses or artificial lenses. When the anterior part of the capsule of the lens is ruptured, and the lens wounded, by which the aqueous humour gets admission so as to act upon its texture, the lens becomes opaque, and is dissolved by that fluid. This is a process by which the wounded and opaque lens becomes removed from the eye, in conse- quence of the continued or successive absorp- tion of the aqueous humour which holds it in solution. Upon this very remarkable process, as well as on the anatomy of the lens, some important and beautiful operations are founded for the removal of cataracts, as will be after- wards more fully explained. § II. Of Cataract. 1. Symptoms of.—The symptoms which at- tend the existence of cataract vary in different cases according to the nature of the cataract, and other circumstances by which it may be accompanied. The first, the most important, and, in many cases, the only symptom which attends the ex- istence of cataract, is impaired vision. This in- distinctness of sight varies in degree, from being only like a mist before the eye to that of com- plete blindness ; being modified by the extent, degree, and nature of the opacity, which con- stitutes the cataract. The partial or complete loss of distinct vision, which is occasioned by cataract, is of a peculiar kind. It takes place from the very commencement of the disease, and gradually increases as the opacity becomes greater, till the patient becomes blind. The sight of the eye, however, is not altogether lost. Though the patient has no useful vision, he can yet distinguish light from darkness, in consequence of light being only intercepted in its direct passage to the retina, by the opaque body. But some light is generally admitted to the retina, either in consequence of the cataract not being completely opaque, or indirectly at the circumference of the lens through the transparent space between it and the ciliary processes. This transparent space, surround- ing the lens, which has been above denomi- nated the zonula lucida, manifests itself by ap- pearing like a black ring around the opaque body, when the pupil is fully dilated. There are some cases, however, in which light is not admitted to the retina, owing to the complete opacity and increased size of the lens, or its adhesion to the iris. When the lens is neither completely opaque, increased in size, nor ad- hering to the iris, and yet the patient cannot distinguish light, the cataract is generally com- plicated with some other disease of the eye, as shall be afterwards pointed out. As light is admitted into the eye in cases of cataract, in the manner above-mentioned, these patients frequently complain of the dis- tressing glare of light which is constantly before them. The rays of light being admitted at the circumference of the lens, are refracted in all directions, cross each other within the eye, and so cause this troublesome sensation. In cataractous eyes, the quantity of light admitted depends also on the size of the pupil. On account of the pupil dilating in a dull ob- scure light, patients then see more light, or distinguish objects better than they can do otherwise. When the pupil is dilated by bel- ladonna, the patient, who was previously blind, sometimes sees so much better while the effects of this substance continue, as to be able to distinguish objects, and even to read. The dilatation of the pupil, by this medicine, is of great use in examining cases of cataract. It enables the examiner to see the disease more thoroughly, the state of the iris, and eluci- dates doubtful cases. When indistinctness of vision arises from cataract alone, it depends so much on the de- gree of the opacity, that the surgeon can in general pretty accurately estimate from the appearance of the eye how much it is im- paired. It is of great consequence to observe that a slight degree of opacity in the lens is frequently observed to exist in elderly persons from the lens becoming of an amber colour without vision being much, if at all, impaired. When a patient who complains of blindness, therefore, has only this degree of opacity in the lens, his loss of sight must depend on some other cause. A cataractous lens appears to be much more opaque when in the eye than it does when removed from it. Though it may seem perfectly opaque in the eye, it appears to be semi-transparent when extracted. So that the opacity of a cataract may appear to be very considerable, and yet may not materially impair vision. When a semi-opaque lens has a mottled or striated appearance, vision is much worse than when the opacity is uniform. Along with impaired vision, in many cases of cataract, there are other symptoms con- nected with the disease. These are symptoms of chronic inflammation, indicated by tender-