CLUB-FOOT. 783 contended *, that “ talipes varus is a natural grade of the development of the foot, since embryos of three or four months old frequent- ly retain one or both feet in this state.” This view of the matter is founded upon his very peculiar theory of embryo development2; and he labours ingeniously to explain how those feet which go through the proper stages of development are converted from the state of varus, to that perfect form which they ought to present at birth. Von Walther’s theory is not confirmed by the researches of others in embryology, and, even were it established, and his explanation by it of the origin of varus and pes equinus admitted, its application, as Dr. Little observes, to valgus, is decidedly inadmissible. Cruveilhier, although he maintained that congenital club-foot was caused by an unnatu- ral form of the tarsal bones, and chiefly of the astragalus, existing prior to their ossification, combated the notion of its production by uter- ine pressure ; alleging, as sufficient evidence to the contrary, the birth of infants affected with talipes, during whose uterine existence there had been no deficiency of the liquor amnii, and that of well-formed infants where scantiness of liquor amnii had been noticed. Common experience, in fact, contradicts the notion, that compression exercised by the uterus it- self, and applied externally, in order to con- ceal pregnancy, for instance, is often a direct cause of deformity. Nevertheless, being still disposed to trace a mechanical agency in its production, Cruveilhier became convinced that both club-foot and club-hand arise from an impediment to development, resulting (not from uterine pressure, but) from the limbs being arranged in improper positions in rela- tion to each other and to the trunk. Duval, who differs widely from Cruveilhier in his views of the nature and origin of the deformity, is in- clined to admit, that it may occasionally, though rarely, be thus produced; and the experience ot Boyer and Guerin leads them to express the same opinion. An assertion relative to club- hand, adduced by Cruveilhier in support of his opinion, is refuted by Dr. Little. He affirms that the carpus being composed of small bones, and its articulations very loose, (the reverse of the ginglymoid articulation of the ankle,) no deformity of the hand analo- gous to talipes varus could occur, as the fcetal distortion of the carpus and metacarpus dis- appears after birth, the removal of the pres- sure causing their return to the natural form and position. The inaccuracy of this state- ment of the spontaneous disappearance of club-hand after birth proves, says Dr. Lit- tle, the fallacy of the inference. Dr. Lit- tle refers to preparations of this double deformity in the Berlin Museum, which dis- prove Cruvcilhier’s assertion, and relates two 1 System der Cliirurgie, B. i. p. 349.—Berlin, 1833. 3 Tflie formation of the hands and feet from a sort of bladder, by the rupture of which, and the separation of its margins, the edges of the foot are formed. Sec Dr. Little's Treatise, Introd. p. xiii. cases which had fallen under his observation, in which congenital distortion of both feet and hands existed in an extreme degree at an adult age. “ Had Cruveilhier,” proceeds Dr. Little, “ witnessed a case of club-hand in the living subject, he would not have asserted that this affection is spontaneously remedied after birth. Club-hand suggests many impor- tant reflections, being precisely analogous to talipes varus.” (See art. Club-hand.) The co-existence of club-foot in both limbs, which has been cited in favour of the opinion that it is caused by uterine pressure, leads merely to the inference of one common dis- turbing cause ; and this common cause, as will presently be shown, having been ascertained and established on better evidence, the me- chanical explanation falls to the ground. By others the origin of the distortion has been sought in the unnatural contraction of one and elongation of another set of liga- ments. Hippocrates believed this to be one of the “ manifold” causes of club-foot. Scarpa, Mackeever, Cruveilhier, and others, determine the fact of the existence of this alteration in the relative proportion of the ligaments ; but this must rather be regarded as an effect than as a cause of the deformity. “ The liga- ments,” says Dr. Little, “ cannot directly in- fluence the production of the deformity, but its progress may be facilitated by their relax- ation ; the restoration of the foot is impeded by their diminished length, the result of long continuance in an improper position.” The same observations apply to Maisonnabe’s opi- nion, that talipes varus depends upon short- ness of the plantar fascia. The opinion which has obtained the most weighty support, both in numbers and autho- rity, is, that these affections are the conse- quence of a disturbance of the balance be- tween the flexor and extensor muscles of the foot. Passing by the observation of Hippocrates1, as being too obscurely worded to be decisive as to the precise ideas entertained by him on this point, we have in favour of this opinion, before the result of Stromeyer’s investigation was made public, the names of Benjamin Bell, Duverney, Boyer, Jorg, Rudolphi, and Del- pech in his second treatise. To this mass of authority we may now' add the confirmatory experience of Stromeyer, Dieffenbach, Bou- vier, Little, Duval, Guerin, and a crowd of contributors to the periodicals of the day, who have adopted the theoretical views of Stromeyer, and, with occasional modifications, have followed practically in his footsteps. 1 Vari igitur non uno modo sed pluribus fiunt. Plerumque siquidem non ex toto sede sua elapso arti- culo, sed quod re aliqua detentus eo habitn assuerit, pes varus efficitur.—Hippocrates, Lib. de articulis, sect. vi. It is worthy of remark, that the subject of club-foot is treated of by the father of physic in connexion with dislocations, with the nature and management of which lie was familiar. It is possible, therefore, that he might have contemplated muscular agency in the de- taining force alluded to.