341 ANUS. be connected with that attached to the syringe or bag by the intervention of a cylin- der of caoutchouc about an inch in length, the terminal extremity would, by reason of the flexibility of the connecting material, be enabled to turn aside when it met with oppo- sition, to find, as it were, its own way; and to adapt itself to the direction of the cavity of the gut; thereby avoiding the possibility of wounding either the anus itself or the parts beyond it. In connexion with spasm of the anus we may notice the effects produced by a preter- natural development of the sphincter mus- cle. In treating of occlusion of the anus we have referred to the fact, that, at birth, there is sometimes so strong a contraction of this mus- cle in some infants, as to require the division of its fibres; but that, in others, it may exist in such a mitigated form as to render an ope- ration unnecessary until that period of life has arrived when the faeces become solid. There is, however, a still further modifica- tion of the same condition, which, although it is unattended by the pain which charac- terizes the former, nevertheless may give rise to morbid consequences. This modifica- tion appears to run in families, and depends on the original formation of the subject, the sphincter having in all such cases a preterna- tural development. In the early periods of life, while the faeces are fluid or soft, there is but little embarrass- ment in the function of defecation; but, as they acquire solidity, a mechanical opposition is offered to their egress, and, by the act of absorption, they acquire a hard consistency, and it is only when thejr are abundant that, by the aid of powerful and long-continued efforts, the sphincter can be relaxed. As the torpidity of the bowels, induced by such a detention of their contents, increases, the periods of dislodging the faeces become more and more distant from each other, so that a week or even ten days will elapse with- out visiting the closet; and then, perhaps, the attempt will be made, not from the prompt- ings of nature, but in conformity with a set- tled plan of the patient’s, who is conscious that the act ought to be performed. It is in such cases that the incautious intro- duction of a glyster-pipe often does injury by cracking the skin or tearing a haemorrhoid, exciting thereby so much activity, as to cause it to pass into the severest form of spasm or of spasm with fissure. It is needless to exhaust our space by dwelling on the plan of treatment which we ought obviously to follow. To diminish the contractility of the sphincter, and to preserve a certain degree of softness of the dejections, are the points to be kept in view; the first of which will be accomplished by a steady, gra- dual, and periodical introduction of a bougie, smeared with an ointment containing a third of extract of belladonna, if the opposition be very great ; and the second by occasional in- jections of warm water, by a proper selection of articles of diet, especially the substitution of bread made of undressed corn for that in ordinary use, by the exhibition of bark, if the atony of the bowels be great and long-con- tinued, and by enjoining the patient to at- tempt the act of defecation at the same hour every day. SPASM WITH FISSURE. Patients labouring under spasm of the anus in its aggravated form, cannot conceive it pos- sible, and will not believe it if they are told, that an addition could be made to their tor- ments ; and it is not until the spasm is com- plicated with fissure, that they are satisfied of the unwelcome truth. Perhaps there is no affection in the whole province of surgery which is so much cal- culated to enlist the sympathy of the be- holders in behalf of the sufferer as this, of which Boyer was the first to give a detailed account. It differs from simple spasm in the access of pain taking place when the faeces are discharged, and in there being a greater amount of pain on one side of the anus than in the rest of its contour; but as regards the general phenomena that attend it, it corre- sponds so entirely with that affection that they cannot well be considered separately. The attention of surgeons has been directed to the question, whether the spasm be pro- duced by the fissure, or the fissure by the spasm, and the alleged fact that there are numerous cases of spasm observed in which there is no fissure, but none of fissure unat- tended by spasm, has led the majority to the latter conclusion. The adjudication of this question is of no great practical importance when the disease is established, but if the opinion we entertain be correct, it might tend occasionally to prevent its occurrence. It is admitted on all hands that spasm without fissure is not uncommon, and this very frequency creates a doubt, that of itself it can be the cause of fissure. That fissure is never observed unaccompanied by spasm is not quite correct, for in syphilitic affections of the anus, chaps or fissures oftentimes exist without exciting the sympathy of the sphinc- ters or being attended with much pain. There is nothing in the nature of the spasm which, a priori, would lead to the inference that it could produce fissure. The action of the muscles is towards, not from, the centre, and there is no tension by their means at any time exerted on the mucous membrane or skin; which, on the contrary, is still more folded, in a manner exactly the reverse of that which we should conceive would originate a fissure. As, therefore, we can see nothing in the nature of spasm calculated to produce a breach in the mucous membrane, and as we find chaps existing without spasm, we incline to the opinion that they are not at all depend- ent directly on each other; but that the fis- sure is an accident occurring during the ex-