517 BRONCHOTOMY. Hargrave, that the polypus occurred in a child, and it was impossible to extract it. These polypi may be either growths from the mucous membrane of the oesophagus or pharynx, or nasal polypi projecting through the posterior nares into the pharynx. The same danger may accrue, and the same necessity arise for the operation, from polypi growing in the larynx itself. I am not aware of any means by which such a growth could be accurately distinguished ; all I can say is, that Dupuytren operated in two cases on this account; and I should think it likely that an accurate stethoscopic examination would lead to a pretty accurate diagnosis, provided it was made at a time when there was a remission of the stridor, &c. There would also probably be a dulness on fillipping the larynx at the part from which the tumour arose. Besides allaying the urgent symptoms, bronchotomy is the only way to get at the growth to extir- pate them. If the case could be made out, the operation is indicated, as the patient is liable at any time to instant death, from the polypus being thrown into the glottis. 3. Fibrous, or other chronic tumours, growing from the structures behind the oeso- phagus, have occasionally been noticed. Lieu- taud relates four cases where deglutition was thus impeded. It is obvious that respi- ration might also suffer greatly, but I am not aware of any case where bronchotomy has been performed on such grounds. It might be necessary provided it were impossible to remove the tumour, that there was danger of suffocation, and that the situation of the tu- mour was such that the trachea could be opened below it. 4. Abscesses in the neck sometimes pro- duce those symptoms considered as indicating a necessity for bronchotomy. Those occur- ring in consequence of disorganization of the laryngeal cartilages have been before spoken of. They also occur about the glottis, giving rise to all the symptoms of croup, in the course of fevers, and in the acute eruptive disorders of children. Death has been caused in a child eight months old, by an abscess bounding the front of the thyroid cartilage, and nearly the whole extent of the os hyoides. Mr. Carmichael has related cases in which abscesses about the throat had occasioned suffocation ; in one bronchotomy was per- formed, though unsuccessfully, the abscess not being recognized. He says, “ It is true that abscesses are every day met with in the back of the pharynx obvious to the sight and touch. For these the remedy is apparent, and affords immediate relief. Others are situated so low as not to be visible, and are, in many instances, beyond the reach of the finger. Such cases may be indicated by the precise seat of the pain; the obstruction in the first instance to the passage of aliment, afterwards, as the swelling increases, to the passage of air; the slower progress of the symptoms compared to those of laryngitis, and the more rapid when compared to those of stricture of the oesophagus, or of chronic tumours pressing on that canal;” “ the ob- struction to the passage of an instrument down the oesophagus, while those complaints about the fauces, which might occasion ob- struction, are absent ; a general swelling of the anterior part of the neck, almost approach- ing oedema, analogous to what occurs over any deep-seated abscess; and, probably, rigors.” If the nature of the case be discovered, no necessity should arise for bronchotomy. The abscess of the oesophagus may be opened, by very cautiously introducing a trocar ; and Mr. Porter has shown, that even if abscesses of the neck are in situations, where it would be dangerous to open them, an incision being made through the integuments, they will open there of themselves in a short time. It could scarcely happen that an abscess could produce sufficient pressure on the windpipe to cause dangerous symptoms, and that a surgeon, knowing the anatomy of the region, could not open it without wounding any important part. The child’s life might evidently have been saved, had the abscess in front of the thyroid cartilage been opened, which, as has just been stated, caused its death. The signs denoting the existence of a deep- seated abscess in this region, are often ob- scure ; but there is a peculiar kind of fulness, and often an obscure sense of fluctuation, which will be sufficient guide for an expe- rienced surgeon. 5. Enlargement of the Tongue.—This some- times occurs in small-pox, in malignant fevers, from the stings of insects, or the abuse of mercury, and to such an extent as completely to block up the fauces. In such a state of things bronchotomy has been recommended, and was performed by Mr. B. Bell with suc- cess in a patient, who was thus almost suffo- cated. I can scarcely conceive, however, that the operation could be required in these cases, for extensive scarifications of the tongue, or a passage of a tube through the nostril into the trachea, would seem likely to answer every purpose. It might, perhaps, be indi- cated in a patient who had been apparently dead for a very short time, as one of the speediest means for restoring suspended ani- mation. 6. Enlargement of the tonsils.—The acute inflammatory swelling, and any effect it may produce likely to render bronchotomy neces- sary, may in general be remedied by evacu- ating the matter, which is the cause of the enlargement. Flajani, however, has given some cases where it was thought necessary from the danger of suffocation. Brasavolus, as we have stated, asserts that he himself opened the trachea, in the case of a patient labouring under quinsy, and on the point of death, and thus saved his life. Garengeot in the Traite des Operations, speaks of a lad attacked with a violent quinsy, completely relieved by bronchotomy. Many other cases are to be found among the old writers, under the appellation “ anginabut it appears cx-