6 EAR, AND HEARING, DISEASES OF. seen from the tympanum. The shape, size, the mode in which the malleus is connected with the membrane, and the cartilaginous ring which forms its circum- ference, are represented. Nerves of the auricle, auditory passage, and membrana tympani. These are derived from the cervical plexus, from the facial, from the third branch of the fifth pair, and also from the pneumo-gastric. The nerves from the cervical plexus, two in number, are distributed principally to the lobule and to the posterior and lower part of the auricle. The facial nerve, in its exit from the stylo-mastoid foramen, gives off the posterior, inferior, or deep auricular nerve, which receives, according to Arnold, a twig from the pneu- mogastric, and another from the great auricu- lar branch of the third cervical, and then divides into two branches, a posterior, larger, and an anterior smaller, the latter of which supplies the retractor muscles and posterior and superior part of the auricle. The superficial temporal nerve, a branch of the posterior and inferior fasciculus of the third division of the fifth pair, gives off two branches, superior and inferior nerves of the external au- ditory meatus, the ramifications of which are distributed to the integument of the auditory passage and concha. There is one branch, nervus tympani, described as running under the upper wall of the osseous part of the auditory passage to the membrana tympani. Another branch sends filaments to the anterior and superior parts of the auricle. The third and most considerable branch of the auricular nerve of the pneumo-gastric, while in the mastoid canal of Arnold, divides into two branches, one of which joins, as has been said, the posterior auricular branch of the facial nerve ; the other, which is stronger, goes to the posterior wall of the auditory pas- sage, gives filaments to the ceruminous glands, and, in company with a branch of the poste- rior auricular artery, penetrates the cartilage of the ear, to ramify on the skin covering its convex surface. Blood-vessels of the auricle, auditory passage, and membrana tympani.—The auricle, auditory passage, and ceruminous glands receive their supply of blood from the posterior auricular artery, the temporal, the occipital, and the deep auricular branch of the internal maxillary. The arteria tympanica superior from the sty- lo-mastoid branch of the posterior auricular, together with the arteria tympanica inferior from the internal maxillary supplies the mem- brana tympani. The arteries of the mem- brana tympani run round its circumference, and down along the handle of the malleus, and branching out, like radii, form by their inosculations a fine net-work. The arteries above-mentioned are accom- panied by corresponding veins. The few lymphatic vessels, which have been observed, accompanied the blood-vessels, principally the veins. There are some small lymphatic glands behind the auricle, and in front of the mastoid process. (If) Physiology of the Auricle, Auditory passage, and Membrana Tympani. Auricle.— The sonorous undulations col- lected by the auricle, make their way inwards partly by being reflected from the concha into the auditory passage, and partly by being transmitted directly through the substance of the auricle itself. Auditory passage.—The air contained in the auditory passage, at the same time that it transmits the sonorous undulations which are communicated to it, onwards to the membrana tympani, increases their intensity by resonance. The walls of the auditory passage also trans- mit sound. Receiving the undulations from the auricle, they conduct them directly to the circumference of the membrana tympani. Membrana tympani.—The membrana tym- pani being thrown into vibration by the undu- lations of sound which are transmitted to it by the auditory passage, in the manner just described, communicates its vibrations to the chain of ossicles, and to the air contained in the tympanic cavity; but as, on the other hand, these re-act on the membrana tympani, and influence its state of tension, the further consideration of the action of this membrane is deferred till the physiology of the tympa- num comes to be treated of. (c) Exploration of the Auricle, Auditory Pas- sage, and Membrana Tympani. To make the examination of the state of the auditory passage and membrana tympani, the patient is to be seated close by a window, through which, if possible, the sun is shining, with the affected ear turned towards it. The surgeon standing behind the patient, strongly inclines the head of the latter to the opposite side, and moves it about until the rays of light fall directly into the ear ; he then, with the left hand, if the patient’s right car be the sub- ject of examination, draws the auricle well up- wards and backwards, in order that the audi- tory passage may have its curvature diminished, and its entrance at the same time somewhat dilated. The dilatation of the entrance of the auditory passage is slightly aided by the pa- tient opening his mouth, an action which tends to withdraw from the lower wall of the carti- laginous portion of the passage the condyle of the lower jaw, which, when the mouth is shut, presses the lower wall somewhat upward. The examination, as above described, is sometimes sufficient, but, in general, it will be found more satisfactory, or even absolutely necessary, to use a speculum auris to dilate and straighten somewhat more the cartilaginous and mem- branous portion of the auditory passage, so that the light may have freer access to the bottom. In using a speculum auris it is always to be remembered that it is the cartilaginous and membranous portion only of the auditory passage which admits of being dilated, the in- strument, therefore, should not be pushed far in, as such a proceeding would only serve to narrow the passage, and any attempt at dilata- tion by pressing on the arms of the instru- ment, would produce pain. It is of little con-