224 ANEURISM. stitched together. The aneurismal tumour itself was covered with adhesive plaster in order to protect the tender skin, and at the same time to keep up a certain degree of pressure ; as I expected that the resistance to the circulation which the ligature would ne- cessarily occasion, might, for a short while at least after its application be followed by an increase in the size of the tumour. Instead of which there was an immediate diminution of its bulk, which was marked by a consider- able corrugation of the skin at the base as well as a decrease in its redness. The patient passed the night after more comfortably than that previous to the operation. A progressive diminution in the bulk of the aneurism, and in the strength of its pulsations took place, so that on the fourth day after the operation it seemed to have diminished nearly one-third ; the upper and tracheal portion had lost all pulsation, and only the scapular por- tion retained an obscure undulatory thrill. The integuments, which had lost their redness, now became more inflamed, and during the fifth and sixth days there was a distinct in- crease in the size of the tumour, and it pulsa- ted more strongly, which seemed partly owing to several severe fits of coughing. This appa- rently unfavourable change was, however, fol- lowed by a decided amendment; for on the eighth day after the operation the swelling again began to diminish, and the pulsation be- came more obscure, so that on the fourteenth day it was not much larger than half its bulk at the time of the operation. No pulsation could be detected in any portion of it, and merely a slight vibration was perceptible in some parts which seemed to be produced by the pulsations of the contiguous vessels, which were now enlarged, particularly the inferior thyroid artery. The redness of the skin, however, con- tinued to increase, and that of the scapular portion of the tumour to become more and more of a purple colour, till, at last, ulcera- tion commenced on its most prominent part. Several considerable-sized portions of coagu- lated blood were now discharged along with some healthy pus through the ulcerated open- ing ; and on the twentieth day after the ope- ration the ulceration of the integuments had closed, and nothing of the tumour remained, but some wrinkling of the skin, and a con- siderable degree of thickening of those parts on which the base of the tumour had rested. These symptoms continued to diminish, and at the end of the fifth week from the time of the operation the neck had nearly assumed its natural form, a slight degree of inequality only remaining: the ligature had come away, and the patient’s general health, on the ma- nagement of which the greatest care had been bestowed, was now completely re-established. This patient visited me in perfect health four years after the operation. Since that period, Brasdor’s mode of ope- rating has been adopted by Bush, Lambert, and Montgomery, in cases of carotid aneu- rism, and the result of their operations has not only proved the soundness and practical utility of the principle, but has made us ac- quainted with some remarkable changes which take place in an aneurismal tumour when a ligature is applied on the trunk of an artery at the distal side of an aneurism, and that no branch intervenes between the ligature and the sac,—phenomena which, in many respects, are quite different from what had generally been supposed as likely to take place, from any previous reasoning on the subject. Had, indeed, the principle on which this operation was suggested been strictly correct, or were it indispensable for the cure of an aneurism by Brasdor’s mode of operating, that no branches should originate either from the sac or between the ligature and the sac, it is evident that practical utility must have been very limited, aneurisms being seldom met with in a situation where this mode of operating could be employed. The carotid artery is perhaps the only vessel in which an aneurism could occur wherein Brasdor’s suggestion could be fairly adop- ted,—an aneurism which not only is very rarely met with, but which had been con- sidered of so formidable a character as to have been supposed beyond the reach of surgery until many years after Brasdor’s proposal had been made. When, as in Hunter’s operation, a ligature is applied on an artery between the aneurism and the heart, or on the cardiac side of the tumour, the whole mass of blood in that part of the vessel between the ligature and the tumour, as well as the blood which is con- tained in the tumour itself must cease to cir- culate, and the ligature has to make a sufficient resistance to withstand the impulse of the blood in the cardiac portion of the vessel, until the internal clot and the adhesions of the sides of the artery at the point of ligation are sufficient to prevent haemorrhage. The blood in the tumour itself then coagulates, and the subsequent diminution, and the consolidation of the aneurism afterwards, take place more or less quickly. Now let us consider what hap- pens if a ligature be placed on the capillary or distal side of an aneurism, and in a case where no branch either passes directly into the tu- mour, or comes off from the trunk of the artery between the tumour and the ligature. No sooner is the ligature applied in such a case, and the usual course of the blood’s circulation interrupted, than the anastomosing vessels dilate, and perform the function of the ob- structed arterial trunk, in like manner as takes place after the Hunterian operation. It might indeed have been expected, that whenever the ligature was tied, the resistance thus given to the circulation would cause an increased effort in the vessel to propel its contents, not only against the point of resistance caused by the ligature, but likewise against the parietes of the sac. Any increase of impetus in the blood, however, can only continue a