BRONCHOTOMY. tion. The subject fias been ably treated by Drs. Corrigan, Ley, and Marsh. When ac companied by cough it might be mistaken for pertussis ; but it may be distinguished by the suddenness of the attack, the complete suspen- sion of respiration, and the absence of vomit- ing. It differs from croup in having complete and perfect intermissions, and in the peculiar piercing shriek with which the attack is ushered in. All that has here to be considered is bronch- otomy as a means of relief during the attack. It has been proposed by Dr. Ley, but it should by no means be regarded as a remedy frequently applicable ; for if the obstruction to respiration be not absolutely complete, the attack is seldom fatal. Even when asphyxia has appeared complete, in a few seconds ani- mation has returned. But if called to a case where the child is apparently dead, and has been so only for a short time, artificial respi- ration should be performed by a bellows to the nostril, or through an elastic tube intro- duced into the larynx. If, how'ever, these are not at hand, or any delay or difficulty should occur in their application, the operation should be immediately performed ; and it is satisfactory to know that it has succeeded under such circumstances. III. In chronic diseases of the windpipe. Chronic laryngitis, and its effects, viz.—thick- ening of the mucous membrane—ulceration, simple or specific, earthy degeneration of the cartilages, and the formation of abscess around —mortification of the cartilages, also accom- panied by abscess. This is not the place to treat of the patho- logy of the larynx ; what is required is to state those circumstances in its chronic diseases, re- quiring the aid of surgery. Now if we have a case, where certain symptoms indicative of laryngeal disease are produced merely by a thickening of the mucous membrane, the re- sult of previous inflammation, or combined with existing inflammation in a chronic form, such a case is one in w'hich bronchotomy, if performed sufficiently early, will be almost certainly successful, and it is probably the case where its success has been more frequent than for any other disease. It will not injure the patient: it is the only means for preserving his life, after mercury and other appropriate ! treatment has failed. It may be the moans of I directly saving life in a sudden paroxysmal exacerbation of the symptoms ; or indirectly by placing the organ in the state of rest so i necessary for the successful treatment of its | diseases ; a state in which nature, unassisted, ■ may bring about a cure. It will remove the | danger of pulmonary congestion, and the lia- bility to organic changes in the lung. It unfortunately happens, how'ever, that in the present state of our knowledge, it is often ! absolutely impossible to discover the precise 1 changes the larynx has undergone ; the diffi- | culty of respiration, with occasional paroxysms approaching suffocation ; metallic cough ; muco-purulent expectoration ; sense of un- easiness about the larynx ; with the effects of the general debilitating influence of disordered respiration: low fever, night sweats, and ema- ciation, are common to all the chronic diseases of the larynx. There are certainly some symptoms indicating the more profound dis- eases ; generally greater pain on pressing the thyroid cartilage, or rubbing the larynx across the spine ; gangrenous feetor of the breath, not mercurial ; greater pain in swallowing ; and the case is put beyond doubt, if portions of the degenerated or disorganized cartilages are expectorated. But these signs are not suffi- cient to enable us to determine accurately either the precise seat, or exact nature of the disease. Nor is such knowledge absolutely necessary to vindicate the propriety of the operation, for in all cases where symptoms such as I have just enumerated continue after the employment of proper treatment, the ope- ration should be performed at once. And even if the other changes have taken place, it should be undertaken, as it is the only hope, and as many cases have been recorded where it has proved successful, though with the necessity for wearing a tube to breathe through. Mr. Porter says, there are at pre- sent in Dublin four persons on whom he ope- rated for these affections, artificially respiring, without any prospect of being otherwise able to exist for the remainder of their lives. Trousseau relates a case in w'hich the patient wore a silver canula for twelve years. To say the least, life will be prolonged, and suf- fering alleviated ; and as neither the cartilages of the larynx, nor its mucous membrane, are in themselves necessary to life, if there be no complication of pulmonary disease, a perfect cure may be anticipated, with the exception of the necessity for wearing a tube. Mr. Carmichael has recorded some cases where he operated with success, on account of ulceration of the mucous membrane, the result of syphilis. The remarks just made as to the in- dications for the operation will also apply here. IV. In cases where tumours in the larynx itself, or in the neighbourhood, obstruct the passage of air, either mechanically, or by ex- citing spasm of the glottis. 1. Foreign bodies in the fauces, pharynx, or oesophagus. (a) Such a substance may be in the fauces, on the epiglottis, so as to completely close it, and cause instant death. This accident gene- rally occurs in children, or others, hastily at- tempting to swallow large, or imperfectly masticated portions of food. Mr. Porter gives tw'o cases in which dissection showed substances lying on the epiglottis, and effec- tually shutting it down. The patient makes two or three convulsive attempts to inspire, throws his arms wildly, falls as in a fit of apoplexy, his face livid and swollen, lips blue, eyes wild, and starting as it were from the sockets: no pulse can be felt at the wrist ; in fact, he appears to be dead. L l 2