397 ARTHRITIS, TRAUMATIC. companied by a sense of weakness, is felt, and a moderate swelling displays itself where the structures around the joint are most disten- sible. A third termination of acute arthritis occa- sionally, though rarely exemplified, is the effu- sion of a plastic false membrane, which con- tracts adhesions to the free synovial surfaces, and establishes a soft anchylosis more or less complete. The observations of several sur- geons show that this is a possible result of active inflammation; but it would be incorrect to suppose it one of ordinary occurrence, since the synovial membranes, though allied in many respects to the serous, have a strong resemblance to the mucous, in their indispo- sition to form bands of adhesion. The reason may probably be the same in both, that the presence of the natural secretion prevents the effused lymph from becoming organized and adherent. In a fourth class of cases, the acute inflammation continues with unabated inten- sity, and a suppurative action is established. Here all the constitutional disturbance already noticed is displayed with extraordinary vehe- mence. There are severe rigors ; the tongue becomes brown, dry, and harsh ; the stomach rejects its contents ; all the secretions are de- ranged ; there is general mal-aise; great anxiety, or even marked delirium ; the articu- lation becomes filled to distension with puru- lent matter, if the original wound has closed; and the tissues external to the joint rapidly take on an inflammatory action. The synovial membrane now ulcerates if there be no com- munication with the external wound, and the matter makes its way to the surface by long, winding sinuses. Even under this state of things the disease may be confined to the synovial membrane, and if the purulent matter have a sufficiently free exit, and the case pro- ceed favourably, the suppuration will gradu- ally diminish, the forces of the patient will rally, and he is ultimately restored to health with a joint but slightly stiffened. Thus Warner1 relates a case of hydrops articuli, in which he made an opening into the joint, which was followed by suppuration. For the dis- charge of the pus the joint was opened a second and a third time, yet the patient, though placed in imminent danger, and very nearly sinking, ultimately recovered with little stiffness of the joint. The second case related by Hey, in his paper on wounds of the joints,2 presents similar features (except that the wound was not inflicted by the surgeon), and had a similar termination. In other cases, granula- tions spring from the synovial membrane as the suppurative action diminishes, and the inoscula- tion of these effects a cure by the establishment of soft ankylosis. These are the most favour- able terminations of the formation of abscess in the synovial membrane, and our treatment ought ever to be influenced by the hope of obtaining them. More commonly, it happens 1 Warner’s Cases in Surgery. 2 Key’s Practical Observations in Surgery. Ed. 3rd. Lond. 1814. ’ that the disease is propagated to the other articular tissues, and a train of symptoms is developed precisely corresponding to those which are commonly witnessed in idiopathic disease, but more rapid in their progress. The cartilage in these cases is very early affected, and an ulceration commences on its free sur- face, which rapidly extends to the bone, and the osseous tissue having once become dis- eased, the mischief is perpetuated until am- putation or death closes the scene. Such being the symptoms, progress, and termination of wounds of the synovial mem- brane, it now remains to inquire what are the morbid appearances presented on an examina- tion of the joints affected in the various stages depicted. The first effect of inflammation in a synovial membrane is probably, as in the mucous membranes, a cessation or diminution of the natural secretion. This is a condition, however, only inferred to exist, since we have very rarely the opportunity of examining joints at a sufficiently early period. To this succeeds a dense injection of the synovial sur- face accompanied with some tumefaction, and an increased secretion, which in some cases is sanguinolent. The folds or reduplications of synovial membrane which hang into the cavity of the joint, like valvulse conniventes, partake in the general injection, and the cellular tissue and pellets of fat which they contain becoming infiltrated, they acquire an inordinate de- velopment, and overlap the cartilaginous surfaces in such a manner as to have been mistaken for a new membrane. If the inflam- mation be not subdued, red vessels begin to shoot over the membrane covering the carti- lage, commencing always from the circum- ference, and often proceeding towards the centre in a regular march, and with a defined outline, which is to be ascribed with great probability to the limitation produced by the pressure of the opposing articular surface. In some cases, the surface of the synovial mem- brane now becomes covered with a layer of plastic adhesive matter from which villous and vascular prolongations depend into the articular cavity, and by the union of which with one another, and with the cartilaginous surfaces, a species of soft ankylosis is esta- blished. More usually, these villous prolong- ations are either absent altogether, or do not form adhesions ; but the surface of the synovial membrane becomes dull, opaque, and traversed by brown or crimson patches, while its sub- stance is thickened, and in some degree j)ulpy. If the inflammation pass into a chronic form, the joint continues slightly distended, with a serous or sero-albuminous fluid, and the synovial surface becomes granular, or even villous. If, on the other hand, a suppurative action be set up, the interior of the joint very commonly presents the appearance of an ordi- nary circumscribed abscess, and the joint be- comes distended by purulent fluid, mixed with curdy or albuminous flakes, until at length ulceration occurs at different points in the synovial membrane, and the matter makes its