AXILLA. 451 it cannot be separated. This peculiarity was first pointed out by M. Gerdy, who lays great stress upon this fact, which will receive fu- ture notice. On account of the numerous vessels, nerves, and glands of the skin of the arm-pit, it is ex- tremely subject to disease, and cannot bear much pressure or irritation ; hence it often occurs that much inconvenience is produced by the application of a bandage, or a pad, to this region. Immediately beneath the cutis we find a layer of cellular and adipose sub- stance, which covers the front of the great pectoral muscle, and turns round its lower border, where it loses itself with the fat in the arm-pit. This subcutaneous membrane, which has been uselessly and unnaturally divided into several strata, by certain anatomists, whose chief aim appears to be the complication, and subdivision, of all the membranes of the body, varies considerably in different subjects: in meagre subjects it is merely cellular, and pre- sents a thin, whitish, and semi-transparent layer ; in fat persons, on the contrary, it is thick, fills up all the hollows, or spaces, be- tween the muscles, and its membranous cells are distended by adipose substance. This mem- brane is a part of the common subcutaneous membrane of the body, and is continued with the surrounding layers, which cover the neck, the shoulder, the chest, &c. This membrane gives insertion to some of the fibres of the pla- tisma rnyoides muscle, and receives numerous branches from the superficial plexus of nerves of the neck. The cephalic vein, likewise, is partly imbedded in its substance. This tissue is much more abundant in the female than in the male subject; it is sometimes the seat of inflammation, producing abscesses, but which are not dangerous, on account of their being superficial, and having more difficulty to point towards the deeper parts of this region, than to the surface, which is the contrary to what takes place, with an accumulation of pus, situated beneath the great pectoral muscle. The form and dimen- sions of the great pectoral muscle require little notice here ; the oblique direction of its upper fibres, which arise from- the sternum, ribs, and inner half of the clavicle, and descend down- wards towards the axilla, is worthy of remark, as guiding the surgeon’s scalpel in cutting down upon the axillary artery ; and which also enables him to distinguish this muscle from the lesser pectoral muscle situated be- neath, whose fibres have a different direction, being oblique from below, upwards to the coro- coid process of the scapula. I saw a very in- telligent surgeon quite uncertain whether, in cutting down upon the axillary artery, he had divided the whole of the pectoralis major, or had not yet reached the smaller pectoral muscle ; while, if he had paid attention to the course of the muscular fibres, all his embarrass- ment would have ceased. Many surgeons re- commend making the incision, for the purpose of putting a ligature upon the axillary artery, along the space which is said to exist con- stantly between the great pectoral and deltoid muscles. I have sometimes seen these two muscles so closely connected in their upper part even, as to defy their being separated, especially in the living subject. Generally, however, there does exist a small triangular space between these two muscles, whose basis is represented by the clavicle ; it is this ab- sence of muscular fibres which causes a slight depression immediately below the clavicle, which is very perceptible in thin persons. It is here, also, that compression of the axillary artery is most easily performed. But, not- withstanding the authority of John Bell, the vessel is much more effectually compressed above the clavicle, and attended with less pain to the patient. It must be remembered, when making the incision between the pectoral and deltoid muscles, that the cephalic vein runs along this course, and may be injured. I as- sisted my friend M. Roux in this operation, where, however, the cephalic vein was not even seen ; the ligature of the artery was soon performed, and was followed with complete success, notwithstanding that this skilful sur- geon pursued his usual mode of operating for aneurism, by first placing a small roller of ad- hesive plaster upon the artery, tying them tightly together by means of a broad flat liga- ture, in Scarpa’s style, except that Mr. Roux allows the ligature to come away of its own accord. Through the triangular space above- mentioned the pectoral muscles receive the anterior branches of the axillary artery, thora- cica externa, or longior, which anastomoses with the surrounding acromial, inferior tho- racic, intercostal, transversalis colli, and subscapular arteries. In performing opera- tions upon this region, the surgeon will fre- quently be obliged to tie that vessel, or to twist it, which is soon done, and completely stops the bleeding. Applied to such vessels, torsion of the arteries is extremely useful, and answers the same purpose as the ligature, without the inconveniences of the latter. The origin of the fibres of the great pectoral muscle from the inner half of the clavicle, explains the ne- cessity of keeping the arm close to the side of the chest, when the collar-bone is fractured, to prevent the pectoral muscle from drawing down the inner portion of that bone, and thus prevent the union of its two ends ; for the like reason, in fractures of the neck and upper part of the humerus, the great pectoral and latissimus dorsi muscles ought to be kept in a perfect state of rest, to prevent any dis- placement of the ends of the fractured bone. The great pectoral muscle, on account of its thickness and resistance, will prevent an accu- mulation of pus from pointing forwards ; and, hence, those burrowing abscesses, which ex- tend in various directions along the cellular tissue and intermuscular spaces. This muscle is sometimes torn across, by violent contrac- tion, or external violence. Mr. C. Benson says1, “We have seen this accident occa- 1 Dr. Todd’s Cyclopedia of Anat. and Pliys. p. iv. p. 359. G g 2