ANKYLOSIS. 312 conditions which tend to produce it; for, to quote Boyer, “ les maladies qui produisent l’ankylose ne sont pas l’ankylose elle-meme.” A crooked and bent condition of the limb is so common an accompaniment of a stiff joint, though not a necessary one, as to have given origin to the name of the disease. The mus- cles belonging to the affected joint are, if the immobility be complete or nearly so, shrunk and wasted from long disuse. The bones also, in old cases, have become diminished in size. In a case which I have already mentioned, where ankylosis, very complete, though not osseous, had existed for thirty years before the limb was amputated ; the femur, now in my possession, does not measure more in diameter than the second finger of a moderate sized hand, and the fibula is about the size of the stem of a tobacco-pipe. It is right to mention, that the ankylosis had taken place in early boyhood, so that, in all probability, the bones had not so much diminished, as they had ceased to grow. When amputation was performed, the patient was a man of middle size, and the other parts of the skeleton had their ordinary development. When the an- kylosis is osseous, especially if it be seated in the central joints of the limbs—to wit, the knee and elbow-joints—the patient will be liable to unpleasant jars from any violent shock at the extremity of the limb, and will also be in considerable danger of fracture from com- paratively slight causes. Fig. 104. Fig 104. Ankylosis of the knee-joint—left limb, a, the patella ; <I, the tibia ; c, osseous union of these two boms. This and the preceding figure were sketched by permission, from preparations presented by Mr. B. Cooper to Guy's Hospital Museum. The diagnosis of ankylosis presents little difficulty as there is only one affection with which it is liable to be confounded. In the early stages of the acute affections of joints, the pain is often so severe and becomes so intensely aggravated by motion, that the limb is maintained in most perfect quiet by the pa- tient himself, and the whole muscular pow7er is put into play to resist any attempt made by the surgeon to move it. Thus, in acute synovial inflammation, or ulcerating cartilage of the hip-joint, the muscles are sometimes so perfectly rigid during the examination, that the body of the patient may be raised by the thigh without producing any motion in the hip ; and Sanson states, (Diet, de Medeeine et Chirurgie Pratique, Art. Ankylose), that he has knowui an eminent surgeon pronounce a very simple case of arthritis to be one of ankylosis from this circumstance. In order to determine, where there is any doubt in these cases, the surgeon should allow the joint rest for a short time, should engage the attention of the patient on other subjects, and should then endeavour to ascertain, but al- ways by gentle movements, what is the true state of the articulation. By proceeding in this manner, with caution and patience, he may in all cases arrive at a very certain con- clusion. But if the diagnosis of ankylosis from other affections be easy, that of the dif- ferent species of ankylosis is proportionably difficult. It is often next to impossible to de- cide whether an ankylosis be true or false, for, as every practitioner must have learned by experience, the immobility may be quite as great in one case as in the other. The most valuable diagnostic sign with which I am ac- quainted is this : when the union is osseous, very strenuous efforts may be made to give motion to the affected joint, without produc- ing any pain, or even the fear of pain ; while an opposite result is common if the union be not osseous. It is also said, that the joint remains more swollen when the ankylosis is soft, but I am not able to speak of this posi- tively. The sensations of the patient may afford us some little assistance. If he feels an unusual jarring and vibration of the limb on slight occasions, if he is very careful in the use of it, to avoid little shocks and concus- sions, it may be inferred that the bones have become cemented together. Another slight indication may be mentioned. If the anky- losis be soft, we shall find, in examining the limb, that when considerable efforts are made to bend it, the muscles which resist motion in the direction intended are called into exercise and become rigid ; if the ankylosis be bony, they will remain wholly unconcerned. These are slight indications ; but they are all with which I am acquainted, and fortunately the question is not of much practical importance. The diagnosis between the different species of false ankylosis, must, in general, depend on the previous history, which will often enable us to arrive at a very satisfactory conclusion. Thus, if there have been ulceration of carti- lage and disease of bone, it may be concluded that the union is by means of ligamentous fibres ; if synovial inflammation, without in- jury of cartilage, there may be collulo-mem-