242 ANEURISM. sion having been made through the skin. The direction of the incision should not be exactly parallel with the line of the artery, but should cross it at an acute angle (tig. 72). This di- rection of the inci- sion gives the ope- rator the certainty of exposing the ar- tery at one point of his incision ; for if it be made paral- lel to the vessel, a difficulty may arise when the incision does not exactly fall upon the trajet of the vessel. The artery ought to be denuded as little as possible, and only at that point where the ligature e is to be applied. Fig. 72, a a, an artery crossed obliquely by the lines of incision, b c, and d e. This mode of dividing the integuments offers essential advantages, not only in facili- tating the future steps of the operation, but in affording the certainty of denuding the ar- tery at one point, and only at that point where it is desirable the ligature should be applied. For if the operation be executed strictly ac- cording to this principle, the cellular sheath of the vessel will be exposed only to such an extent as to facilitate making an opening into it merely sufficient to admit the transit of a small needle for conducting the ligature round the vessel. The safety and success of the operation may indeed be justly said to depend on the ligature being applied without much disturbance to the soft parts contiguous to the artery, and likewise in the facility by which the needle is passed around it; and I am con- vinced that even the most experienced opera- tor's will find decided advantage in performing this operation, by adopting the oblique inci- sion of the integuments which I have now recommended, instead of following the ordi- nary method of dividing the skin immediately above, and in a line parallel to the trajet of the artery; a practice which I am of opinion it will be better to avoid, even when operating on superficial arteries. The advantages of marking the line of the incision with ink, before commencing an operation, should not be lost sight of, particu- larly in that of placing a ligature upon an ar- tery. It frequently happens, that from the external incision not being ot sufficient extent, the subsequent dissection is retarded, and it becomes necessary to extend the division of the skin, an inconvenience which can always be avoided by duly considering and marking the length of the incision beforehand. The instruments necessary for dividing the integuments and performing the subsequent dissection, are, a scalpel, a directory, and a blunt-pointed knife. The scalpel best adapted for this, as well as for most other operations, ought to have the back and handle made in one continued straight line, as represented in (fig. 73), a b. Fig. 73. By grinding a small portion from the back of the blade, at an oblique angle, a knuckle or projection c, is formed, which serves the purpose of guiding the sharp point of the instrument, the end of the operator’s fore finger being applied upon it. With this in- strument the incision is to be made down to the cellular envelope or proper sheath of the artery, and before attempting to open the sheath and expose the vessel, it greatly faci- litates the operation to wait until the wound is cleansed from blood, when that is practica- ble ; an assistant taking care to apply pres- sure on any bleeding vessel. The sheath of the artery being now distinctly seen, it is to be cautiously opened, conducting the scalpel by the director, and if this step of the opera- tion be effectually accomplished, the aneur- ismal needle will pass with the greatest facility round the vessel; the cellular mem- brane, which lies between the artery and its sheath, being remarkably loose, yields readily even to a blunt-pointed instrument. If the artery be so deeply situated that it cannot be distinguished by the eye, the opening of the sheath is a step of considerable difficulty and great nicety ; the difficulty consisting in ascertaining with certainty, that the sheath is opened. It is here that the form of scalpel which has been recommended would be found particularly useful, and the sharp point safely guided by the finger of the operator. In order to be assured that the sheath of the vessel was opened, when I had no means to ascertain it but by the sense of touch, before venturing to introduce the needle, I have always passed within the sheath a blunt-edged silver knife, with its point slightly curved, after which the aneurismal needle may with confidence be introduced. This step of the operation will be more safely and speedily accomplished by passing the needle between the artery and its accompanying vein or from within outwards, than from without inwards. By this mode of proceeding, there is much less chance of in- cluding the vein along with the artery within the ligature, an occurrence which I have known happen to experienced surgeons. The needle for conducting the ligature has been made of a variety of forms, and several dif- ferent contrivances have been resorted to, to convey the ligature round deep-seated arte- ries. The most simple, and by far the most preferable aneurismal needle for general use, is of a curved form, somewhat like the letter S. (See Ligature.) When of this shape the point can be passed in various directions, and carried round a vessel of considerable depth. 12