232 ANEURISM. (e) the distal extremity of the subclavian, on which the 1 Lancet, 1828. may be said to have been composed of three divisions; one sternal, arising immediately above the sternum, another passed upwards along the trachea, and the third was the origi- nal portion of the aneurism which had become consolidated after the operation. These three masses had formed in conjunction a lobulated tumour larger than a turkey-egg. It adhe- red firmly to the sternum, and a portion of that bone was absorbed. The aneurismal tu- mour, as might have been expected from its bulk not having been diminished after death, felt like a firm fleshy mass. On laying it open longitudinally it appeared nearly solid. The coats of the sac presented the usual ap- pearance observed in true aneurism, and the clavicular and tracheal portions of the sac were filled up with a firm fibrinous concretion, leaving a cavity only about the size of a wal- nut. On cutting into the innominata from the aorta the aneurism was found to have ori- ginally extended from the origin of the inno- minata to its bifurcation. Both the cardiac and distal orifices of the subclavian artery, where the ligature was applied, were contracted, and the sides of the vessel adhered together so firmly that a probe could not be passed further along the canal than to within about a quarter of an inch of the distal extremity of the divided vessel. The right carotid was pervious and quite healthy. The parietes of the heart were thinner and softer than natu- ral. The calibre of the aorta was not in- creased, but the coats had a deeper tinge of yellow than natural, were rather thicker and had a few small points of ossification. The lungs were healthy, contained a preternatural quantity of mucus, and the lining membrane of the bronchi was more than usually vas- cular. Fig. 68. the aneurismal sac. The sac (c c) is laid open, in order to show the interior structure; (d d) a lamel- lated coagulum, which had consolidated the tumour; ligature had been applied ; it is laid open to show the obliteration of that vessel; (_/’) the right carotid; (</) the left subclaman, and (h) the left carotid ; (i) the trachea; {k) the right clavich sawn through. Such, indeed, were the results, and so satis- factorily did this interesting case prove the soundness of the principle on which this new mode of operating for aneurism was suggested, that the method w'as soon adopted both in this as well as in other countries, and has since been successfully resorted to in those cases for the cure of which neither the opera- tion of Hunter nor that of Brasdor could be executed. The next case in which an attempt was made to cure an aneurism by placing a liga- ture on only one of the branches of the diseased artery was under the care of Mr. Evans, an eminent surgeon, at Belper, in Derbyshire, and the result of the operation in this instance was still more satisfactory than in that of Mrs. Denmark, the aneurism being situated in the innominata as well as at the root of the caro- tid; and the ligature being applied on the carotid in place of the subclavian artery as in the former case1. An athletic young man, accustomed to la- borious exercise, perceived, after a fit of coughing, a soft pulsating tumour about the size of a walnut, suddenly make its appear- ance behind, and extending a little above the right sterno-clavicular articulation, and covered, externally, by the sternal portion of the sterno- mastoid muscle. The tumour was greatly diminished by firm pressure, but could not be made to disappear entirely. Its pulsation was synchronous with that of the heart, was increased by pressure upon the right subclavian artery, and was diminished and sometimes com- pletely arrested by pressure upon the right carotid. The pulsations of the right carotid and subclavian arteries were stronger than those of the left; but there was no apparent difference in the pulsations of the radial arte- ries. Fig. 69.