ABSCESS. 30 is diffused, and the accompanying general symptoms are of a formidable character. This form of abscess is described by Duncan under the name of diffused phlegmon, and is more commonly known, under that of Phleg- monous Erysipelas. It is observed to occur in persons of bad habit of body, who have undergone severe labour and hardship; it occurs also after inoculation by dissecting wounds. It seems not to depend so much on the seat, or intensity of the inflammation, as on its peculiar nature, and the absence of any disposition in the economy to furnish the plastic principle, without which the circumscri- bing membrane of abscesses cannot be formed. In this variety, we do not find a single cavity, but a considerable number of small spaces, having externally for boundary the skin thin- ned, detached, and sloughy; it also burrows deep between the muscles, separating them as it were with a scalpel. At first there is very little pus distinguishable in a much greater quantity of bloody serum, with which the cellular tissue seems impregnated. When these collections are opened, and the inflam- mation becomes circumscribed, the matter is isolated as in the ordinary phlegmonous abs- cess, by the production of the proper mem- brane of such collections. Many varieties of abscess might be added to the foregoing if we were, in imitation of other writers, to establish them on the nature of causes, or on the dependence they may have on certain morbid states of the body. But such a mode of dividing the subject would be no longer in accordance with the spirit of exactness that characterizes the present state of pathology. Abscesses under the titles constitutional, scrofulous, rheuma- tismal, syphilitic, &c. cannot therefore find a place in this article. Abscesses produced by the irritation of foreign bodies, liquid or solid, w’hether introduced from without, or pro- duced in the body, such as urine, faeces, bile, blood, milk, saliva, &c. are also excluded. In this place a simple indication of them will suffice as they form the subject of special con- sideration under their respective heads, to which the reader is referred. Progress and termination of Abscess.—Inflam- mation occurring in the living tissues may at any period of its progress be arrested and ex- tinguished, even though it shall have proceeded to the full formation of pus. But the proba- bility of such an event is greater before the inflammation has proceeded to its height, or been followed by those changes in the condi- tion of the parts which precede or accompany the formation of pus. This extinction of the inflammation and resorption of the newly de- posited fluid, takes place under various influ- ences, but whenever the case is so, the resorp- tion is preceded by the disappearance of all the local symptoms of congestion and phlogose. The circulation at the circumference of the tumour becomes less frequent ; its redness, swelling, and heat are lessened ; there is exu- dation of thin serum from the vessels of the part, or on the secreting surfaces ; the tumour softens and subsides, and the sense of fluctua- tion can no longer be discovered, and the patient is relieved from all the inconvenience and danger of protracted suppuration. The process by which this most favourable termina- tion is effected, is known by the name of Reso/utioji. In very rare instances, where the inflam- mation, having been slight, has disappeared, and the pus is not absorbed, the walls circum- scribing it become thickened, and the abscess remains stationary like any other foreign body that has been isolated from the living parts by a cyst. But we must not often ex- pect to see the purulent absorption and exha- lation in the abscess so nicely balanced; one of them predominates, most commonly the exhalation, and hence the progressive enlarge- ment of the cavity. But when the inflamma- tion is very severe, and the texture of the parts has suffered in a greater degree, pus is formed in quantity, the absorbents show no disposition to remove it, and the mass of fluid continues to increase more or less rapidly in proportion to the degree of irritation kept up by its ow'n presence, by the further extension of the inflammation into the surrounding parts, or by a purulent exhalation from the walls of the puogenic cyst. Rebellious to the power of absorption, the pus now' falls under that of another general law of the economy, in virtue of which it endeavours to expel all foreign substances capable of irritating the organs of the body. The pus, by its accumulation, com- presses, displaces, and fatigues the surrounding parts, and tends towards the outer or inner surfaces of the body, mostly the former, seek- ing an opening for its final escape. The in- crease in quantity of the pus has an important share in effecting the transfer of the whole mass of fluid from the place of its original for- mation to the surface of the body : although pressing with equal force on all sides of the cavity that circumscribes it, it does not meet every where with the same resistance; its progress towards the internal surfaces is op- posed by the mutual support which the inter- nal organs afford each other; in a w'ord, by the absence of cavity: not so the external surface ; the only opposing power at the peri- phery of the body is the weight of atmospheric air and the texture of the integuments, to- wards which continuous tracks of cellular tis- sue may almost every where be found. The progress of the pus towards the surface is not, however, a simple result of compression and distension in that direction ; they excite or combine with an organic, movement, w'hich requires to be noticed. The compression and distension become strongest in the direction in which the resistance is weakest, exciting inflammation and ulcerative absorption, and this process continues to remove every barrier till it attacks the skin itself, which is often per- forated at several points over the abscpss. A remarkable effect of this precessional process is the adhesion which it establishes between the walls of the abscess and the parts upon which the purulent cavity advances. The