CEPHALHEMATOMA. 756 tion from common caput succodaneum. Dr. Burchard’s experience on this point is as fol- lows :— Colour whitish, skin attenu- } ■ , , , , . ’ . I in 5 cases, ated and transparent S Scarlet red 2 Violet, blackish, and livid 7 Perfectly natural 24 ,Not observed 7 A yellow tinge sometimes remains, according to the same observer, for some time on the skin after the total disappearance of swelling. In fifty-one of the tumours observed by him the temperature of the investing skin was as nearly as possible the same as that of the rest of the body : one of those on the occipi- tal bone was, it would appear, hotter than the rest of the surface ; in another instance eleva- tion of temperature was ascribed to the treat- ment by the potential cautery. When fully developed the tumour is tense, does not pit on pressure, and is the seat of distinct or obscure fluctuation. According to M. Valleix it is always possible, even when the swelling is extremely tense, to touch the. subjacent bone within the confines of the swelling, by first placing the finger on the edge of the latter and then pressing gradually inwards towards the centre. Strong pressure does not in any case produce either diminu- tion in the size of the tumour, convulsions or other cerebral symptoms ; nor does the infant give any evidence of suffering pain, while it is handled. It is immoveable. Naegele affirms that be detected pulsation twice in these tumours ; Here looks upon this as a usual phenomenon ; but the vast majority of observers having altogether failed in satisfy- ing themselves of its existence, doubts of its ever occurring began to be entertained. Re- cently, however, Dr. Burchard has announced his having, in company with several persons, discovered pulsation in two cases. In both of these instances an intra-eranial cephalhse- matoma co-existed with the sub-pericranial, and a wide perforation of the bone formed a free communication between the two collec- tions of blood. Dr. Burchard is inclined to believe on the evidence of these cases that pulsation is indicative of the co-existence of these two varieties of blood-swelling, an opi- nion which renders intelligible both the me- chanism by which it is produced and the rarity with which it has been observed. He has not stated whether the pulsation was synchronous with that of the arteries ; but re- marks that it was more distinctly felt when the infant cried out. Among the most important signs of these tumours is a hard, elevated, rough, in some cases denticulated prominence surrounding them wholly or partially at the base,—whence the impression of a deficiency of the cranium immediately within the circumference of the swelling is conveyed to the finger on examina- tion. The constant existence of this promi- “iience has been made a subject of warm dis- pute. Michaclis contended that it is present 2 from the commencement of the grow th of the tumour and pathognomonic of it,—an opinion which, as W'e shall presently see, is a necessary consequence of his theory respecting the na- ture of the disease. On the other hand Naegele, Zeller, and More, w'hose narrations are marked by care and precision, make no mention of this prominence as occurring at the outset of the formation of the tumour; and Naegele refers to a certain number of borrowed cases (in those observed by himself it always existed) in order to prove that even when in its stage of full development, the character in question is not invariably dis- coverable. Stein affirmed that it is often absent, and Busch, denying its presence in toto, regards those who describe it as labour- ing under an “ optical illusion.” This dis- crepancy of opinion has been well and sim- ply accounted for by M. Valleix. In an infant examined about twenty-four hours after the first detection of a tumour on the head, this observer found a cephalhaematoma possessing all the usual characters except the prominent rim. The following day the tumour had in- creased in size, and a prominence of about a line high and a line and a half broad was now detected corresponding to the lower and an- terior borders of the parietal bone. Zeller himself relates (though the importance of the fact escaped him) that Wigand, having watched the growth of two cephalluemato- mata for a day. ascertained that at the end of that time only did the prominence begin toform. In M. Fortin’s, already referred to, it was not to be found at birth, but was distinctly percept- ible two days after. Wokurka, in alluding to Stein’s opinion that the bony ridge is often wanting, asserts, like Valleix, that this is Only true of tumours examined almost immediately after formation. Again, in some of the cases adduced to prove the absence of this elevated rim, the tumour had been opened by incision immediately on its appearance, and its further evolution thereby interfered with. In fine its production seems a constant occurrence when time is allowed for the process. Palletta believed that these tumours go on increasing in size indefinitely unless opened by the surgeon, a notion of which general ex- perience has proved the inaccuracy. Far from this, they sometimes acquire their full size in a few hours. According to M. Valleix it is not uncommon to find them increase for a day or two ; after the formation of the elevated margin, they undergo no change until they commence to diminish in bulk. Burchard de- scribes three distinct phases ;—that of growth, which lasts seven days; that of quiescence, from seven to twenty-one; of decrease, which is not complete till the seventh or ninth week. Anatomical characters.— Before describing these,it will be well briefly to notice the condi- tion of the bones of the cranium at the period of life to which the affection is peculiar. The pericranium in new-born infants adheres very slightly to the bones, except in the immediate vicinity of the sutures and fontanelles ; and