DETRUNCATION. 872 Slight phlegmasia dolens followed, but the girl ultimately recovered. For the management of the placenta in cases of convulsions, and repeated syncope after delivery, see Parturition. Bibliography : Pauli, De Secundinarum Reten- tione. Hafnias, 1657. Hurte, De Secundinarum post partum excernendarum Retentione. Altorfii, 1672. Ettmuller, De Secundinarum exclusione. Lipsiae, 1710. Hartramp/t, De non differenda Secundinarum adlioe- rentinm Extractione. Lipsiae, 1735. Alberti, De Sccundinis restitantibus. Halae, 1743. Buechner, De nccessaria brevi post partum Secundinarum Extrac- tione. Halie, 1757. Gehler, De Utcro Secundinas Ex- pellente. Lipsiae, 1765. Harvie, Practical Directions, showing a method of preserving the Perineum in birth, and delivering the Placenta without violence. London, 1767. Vogel, De non accelerando Secundinarum Ex- tractione. Gottingae, 1768. Boehmer, De Solvendis ct Extrahendis Secundinis. Halae, 1769. Delius, Cautelsc nonnulkc circa Secundinarum Eductionem. Erlangac, 1775. May, Fata et Funera Puerperarum ex Solu- tione Placentae artificiali oriunda. Heidelburg, 1786. Mayer, De Secundinis, earumque Solutione tain natu- rali quam artificiali. Frankfort, 1786. Koch, Disser- tation snr le danger qui peut resulter du sejour trop longtemps prolonge du Delivre dans la cavite uterine. Bruxelles, 1796. Maygrier, Dissertation sur la De- livrance. Paris, 1805. Soulcrat, Dissertation sur la Delivrance. Paris, 1807. Burns, Practical Observa- tions on Uterine Hicmorrliage, with remarks on the management of the Placenta. London, 1807. Joerg. De Funiculi Umbilicalis Deligationc baud negligenda. Lipsiae, 1810. Allaire, De la Delivrance. Paris, 1811. Duchateau, Dissertation Inaugurale sur la Delivrance. Paris, 1813. Desormeausr, Dictionnaire deMedeeine, art. Delivrance. Paris, 1823. Calderoni, Considerations sur un nouveau moyen propose par le Dr. Mojon pour 1’Extraction du Placenta. Paris, 1827. Boivin, Observations et Reflexions surles Cas d’absorption du Placenta. Paris, 1829. Dupes, Dic- tionnaire de Medecine et de Chirurgie Pratiques, art. Delivrance. Paris, 1831. Writings on this subject in our own language are found in all the general treatises on Midwifery, for an enumeration of which the reader is referred to the Bibliography of the article Partu- rition. (Thomas Spencer Wells.') DENTITION. See Teeth. DENUDATION. This word, in its ge- neral acceptation, expresses the condition of a part stripped of its natural coverings, and may arise from wounds, abscess, gangrene, &c. A bone is said to be denuded when deprived of its periosteum. DEPRESSION. The state of the bone in fractures of the cranium, in which one or more of the fragments is driven in upon the brain. The word is also used to describe the removal of the opaque lens from the axis of vision by means of the couching-needle in the operation for cataract. DETRUNCATION. Syn. Detroncation, Fr.—The forcible separation of the body from the head of the foetus, the head remain- ing w ithin the organs of the mother. Numerous instances of detruneation are scattered among the writings of practical ob- stetricians, the majority of w'hich have oc- curred under the hands of ignorant persons, w'ho have exercised violent traction upon the lower extremities of the child in breech or footling cases, or after the feet had been brought down by turning, without paying due attention to the axes of the pelvis, or directing their efforts in accordance with the varying dimensions of the pelvic apertures. The accident may happen, however, when the child has become softened by decomposi- tion : and, in some rare cases, it is advisable to effect it by operative measures. Thus, in what was termed by Denman “ spontaneous evolution,” but which Dr. Douglas has more correctly described as the passage of the foetus through the pelvis in a doubled state, much good may be gained by separating the trunk from the head. The acromion of the child revolves upon the symphisis pubis of the mother as on an axis ; the head remains above the brim of the pelvis while the breech sweeps the sacrum and perineum, the head being expelled last. This process, however, cannot be completed without extreme disten- sion of the perineum, and, in some cases, where the body has thus become wedged in the pelvis, detruncation is indicated. If the child presented with the neck immediately over the brim of the pelvis, it would be easy to pass a finger or blunt hook around the neck to serve as a guide for some cutting in- strument. Dr. Ramsbotham described a sharp hook, which answers the purpose of separating the head very well; it is merely a large hook, the concave edge of which is sharp from the commencement of the curve to within a little distance of the point. It is passed around the neck, and the head is readily separated by using the instrument with a sawing motion, after which the body may be drawn out by the arm which pro- truded. This practice is far from new, for .(Etius says, when the child presents double, that it is better to separate the trunk from the body, than to endeavour to push up the chest, and deliver by the feet. The head being left in the uterus, whether from accident, carelessness, or design, the question arises as to the mode of removing it. Feu and Boer cite cases in which it has been rapidly expelled by the natural efforts alone ; Asdrubali another, in which it remained seve- ral days: but these do not set aside the gene- rally acknowledged necessity for artificial ex- traction. The hand must be introduced, the vertex brought downwards, and the head placed with its longest diameter in relation with the long diameter of the pelvic brim, when if the dimensions of the pelvis are normal, the uterine contractions will probably suffice to complete the expulsion. If not, the head must be steadied by external pressure, the vertex perforated, the brain removed, and delivery completed with the crotchet. See Crotchet. There will be but little difficulty in this, unless the pelvis be extremely de- formed, in which case the osteotome of Dr. Davis would probably be the most ready means of speedily and satisfactorily termi- nating the case.