149 ERYSIPELAS. Sometimes erysipelas suddenly disappears without having gone through its course by delitescence, the dangers of which have been signalized by almost all authors. However, one of the most minute, accurate and conscien- tious observers of modern medicine, Dr. Louis, emphatically denies the possibility of erysipelatous delitescence, and says that the word ought to be expunged from all treatises on pathology. He thinks that those authors who admit it, have confounded simple ery- thematous redness- with erysipelas, in which he says the skin is not only red but has be- come hard, thickened, and evidently altered in its texture l. This is a bold abjuration of an opinion, consecrated by the concurrent testi- mony of all ages, and in the face of facts authen- ticated by all the perspicacity and precision of modern observation. We read in a letter from Dr. Chrestien of Montpellier a case of erysi- pelas of the leg disappearing and followed by delirium, which was subdued by recalling the eruption to its primitive seat by the application of a blister2. A similar case is recorded by Mr. Blandin ; a traumatic erysipelas of the lower extremity treated by refrigerants was suppressed, and grievous cerebral symptoms ensued, which however promptly subsided on the reappearance of the eruption round the wound subsequent to the use of mercurial frictions 3. Will it be argued that these were cases of simple erythematous redness ? How then explain the development of the erysi- pelas ? Is simple erythematous redness, con- vertible into erysipelas by the application of a blister or by mercurial frictions ? With regard to the anatomical obstacle, if delites- cence be incompatible with the structural modification produced by simple erysipelas, we must reject the possibility of erratic ery- sipelas, and erase it also from the tables of nosology. As we are not convinced of the propriety of this admission, we shall resume our considerations on the delitescence of ery- sipelas. This termination is not always at- tended with danger. Erysipelas limited to a small portion of the face often disappears in three days, and even less, without any incon- venience, and persons subject to frequent returns of the disease, often get through their last attacks in two or three days, without the smallest accident. But it is far otherwise, when a first and extensive erysipelas suddenly disappears (metastatic erysipelas'), as the deli- tescence is then generally the etfect, and not the cause as has been said, of some intercur- rent visceral phlegmasia. The frequency of this metastasis has been no doubt greatly ex- aggerated, as may be inferred from the opi- nion of Louis, whose great experience has never furnished him with one instance of the kind. Suppuration may be considered as an ac- cidental termination of erysipelas: it can 1 Gazette Med. An. 1831, and Lancctto Francaise, t. iv. no. 85. a Gazette Med. an. 1833. 3 Lancctte Francaise, no. 109. take place on the surface of the skin in the phlyctenoid form, when an exhalation of pus gradually replaces that of serum, in the tissue of the derm ’, or in the subjacent cellular texture in the phlegmonous variety. These modes of termination may be all found in the same erysipelas, and it is not uncommon to see at the same time phlyctsenae of the cheeks, ulceration of the ears, and abscess of the eyelids, dependent in some measure on the varied structure of these parts. Gangrene is a frequent termination of the phlegmonous and cedematous forms of ery- sipelas, and is almost essential to the ady- namic form, especially in infants. It is not, however, peculiar to any one state, and con- sequently should not be constituted into a variety of the disease. It is doubted if it has ever been the termination of simple erysi- pelas. It is certainly easy to mistake the cause for the effect, and erysipelas in these cases may be but the mode of expression of a deeper lesion, already pre-existing. In this state a livid erysipelatous blush appears, numerous small phlyctaense quickly succeed, while already underneath the mortification of the derm has begun, and it only awaits the process of elimination to detach it from the adjoining living cuticle. Death is also a termination of erysipelas, and may result from the extent of the erup- tion ; but is much more frequently owing to the extension of the inflammation to the sub- jacent tissues, or to some internal complica- tion. Complications.—They are referable to the extension of the inflammation to the contigu- ous tissues : phlegmon, arthritis, phlebitis, stomatis, &c., to the various other phlegmasiae and lesions, that may be conjoined with the erysipelas as simple coincidence, or in the re- lation of cause and effect, or to the form or genius of the febrile reaction and constitu- tional disturbance, constituting the inflamma- tory, bilious, adynamic and ataxic varieties of the disease. In these latter cases the ery- sipelas generally becomes of secondary con- sideration, and loses its chief importance in the presence of a more formidable disease. Varieties of erysipelas.—All observers have been struck with the diversity of the charac- ters of erysipelas, and, according to the im- portance they attached to them, each multi- plied variously the divisions and species of the disease. These divisions have been founded on the presumed causes of the dis- ease : protopathic2, idiopathic, or primary, deuteropathic or secondary, accidental or traumatic : on the appearance of the eruption : miliary, phlyctenoid, pustulous, ulcerous : on the anatomical nature of the disease $ simple, cedematous, phlegmonous : on the march of the eruption ; stationary, erratic, periodic, &c. : on the seat the disease occupies; ery- sipelas of the head, of the trunk, and of the 1 Raver, Op. cit. 2 J. B. Burscrius, Op. cit.