CANCER. 678 possible. Here the disease cannot even be relieved, except by an operation. Mr. Mayo has recourse to divisions of the mass with the knife in cases of fungoid scirrhus, when the sensibility is so extreme, and the growth so large, that the bougie cannot be borne or in- troduced. A case i3 related in which this mode of widening the channel was productive of relief. We may state here that Mr. Staf- ford has recently 1 recommended the division of the gut when, among other conditions, “ carcinomatous ulceration is likely to occur ; the freeing the part, and thus relieving the irritation kept up in (is ?) the most likely way, although it cannot be depended on with cer- tainty, of preventing the mischief.” Analogy is certainly strongly opposed to this idea ; in- cising a scirrhous breast would be rather an unlikely way of delaying the occurrence of ulceration : but if experience be on Mr. Staf- ford’s side, theoretical objections are of course without force.—A variety of materials have been employed as dilating bodies, cylinders of shredded lint ( meches de charpie ), elastic gum bougies, soft wax, tallow candles, Arnott’s di- lator, the Fucus Esculentus2, ivory softened in an acid (Mr. Alex. Ure), &c.; but the softest of these are decidedly to be preferred in carci- nomatous cases.—The introduction of a hollow tube, through which water may be injected, and the faeces washed away, is recommended, and is sometimes, but this is rare, of real use : as Desault long since remarked,even flatus can- not, in many cases, be made to escape through it.—Galvanism has been tried as a means of stimulating the intestinal fibres to action, but little is to be hoped from its employment. M. Amussat is in the habit of treating cancerous ulcers and fungosities by cauteriza- tion with a stick of caustic potass or nitrate of silver ; following up this plan, after the separation of the eschars, by compression and dilatation. The dangers attending cauteriza- tion of the cervix uteri are increased in the instance of the rectum by the greater diffi- culty of the operation ; and the amount of benefit thus obtained is not stated. The process of breaking down fungous masses in the rectum can never be more than palliative : as an example of its results we subjoin the following abridged account from the practice of M. Amussat. A man ffitat. 62, presented a carcinomatous ulcerated ring surrounding the intestine, measuring If inches in length and commencing 2i inches above the sphincters : the coarctation was almost sufficient to prevent the finger from passing into the narrowed part. The liga- ture, dilatation, or excision were decided in consultation to be inapplicable—the latter from the fear even of slight haemorrhage which, it was apprehended, must have carried off the patient. The most prominent granu- lations of the mass were consequently broken up with strong pincers : the operation is said to have been scarcely felt by the patient, and attended with no haemorrhage. Eight days after M. Amussat commenced cauterizing, repeating this every third or fourth day for a considerable time. The tumour was thus reduced to half its previous size ; but, notwithstanding this, the patient’s condition grew more and more alarming, and it became necessary to form an artificial anus to save his life. Extirpation may be undertaken, either when the disease consists of a distinctly circum- scribed tumour, or of a stratiform mass in- volving part of or the entire circumference of the gut. A tumour may be removed by ligature or excision. The former operation, which saves the patient from the risk of haemorrhage, may be done with a silk thread, if the basis of the growth be narrow: with silver wire under the contrary circumstances. The removal of a mass encircling the gut is an operation of greater importance. Vel- peau states' that an inch and a half of the entire circumference was successfully excised by Faget in 1739—defecation proceeding with the new anus as comfortably as in the natural state of the parts. The merit of reviving this operation in the present century rests with Lisfranc. Among nine operations of the kind performed by this surgeon before 1830, five terminated by a cure ; in one in- stance the issue was doubtful ; three cases ended fatally. In two of the latter, purulent effusion in the pelvis and phlebitis were the causes of death ; the body of the third subject was not opened. Mr. Mayo has, also, re- moved in one instance a portion of the entire cylinder of the rectum ; the patient was exceedingly benefited by the operation ; she had prolapsus afterwards however, and died of inflammation in the abdomen two years after. It is indispensable for success that the limits of the disease be within easy reach of the finger (three inches have been re- moved), and that the surrounding cellular tissue be healthy, so as to permit the bowel to be drawn down with facility during the operation. Should the entire substance of the parietes be affected, the case is unfit for operation if the disease extend more than an inch above the anus. Velpeau describes the steps of the operation as follows. The patient having been placed on his side, as in the operation for fistula in ano, with the thighs kept apart by a pillow and flexed at a right angle on the trunk, the anus is encompassed by two semilunar incisions joining anteriorly and posteriorly, and the resulting flaps dissected up to the edge of the sphincter. The left index finger is then introduced for the purpose of bringing down the diseased mass as low as possible, while an assistant draws the dissected ellipse of integuments in the same direction. The surgeon then cuts away the adhesions of the diseased gut by semi-circular sweeps ot Ed. Med. and Slirg. Journ. vol. li. p. 363. 1839.