FRACTURE. 390 about two inches and a half above the end of the outer malleolus, and that this is usually at- tributable to a sudden inclination of the tibia inwards. When the fracture is lower, he refers it to the descent of the tibia outwards. Fractures of the inner malleolus, or of the tibia adjacent, or rupture of the deltoid liga- ment, he regards as complications of the above injury ; when caused by the foot turn- ing inwards, as consequences; but when caused by its turning outwards, as necessarily preceding. On the whole, it must be pretty evident that the irregularities and complica- tions of fractures of the leg, rather than the simple injuries, are what constitute the diffi- culties of practice. The treatment of simple fractures of this bone is not difficult. Turning the sole of the foot inwards assists to separate the broken end outwards or away from the tibia; but this may be unnecessary or mischievous. A side-splint, with a foot-piece, well padded, and bound to the inner side of the leg, gene- rally avoiding to cause any pressure near the fractured part, will be all that is requisite. The slight contact of the fragment, and the total arrest of motion, retard the consolida- tion of this fracture to the fifth or sixth week, or even later. The less the patient is con- fined, the more rapid and abundant will be the formation of callus. Respecting fracture of the fibula near the ankle-joint, Sir A. Cooper writes as one who has felt what he describes:— “ The surgeon discovers the nature of the accident by rotating the foot with one hand, and by grasping the lower part of the leg with the other ; at each rotation a crepitus is generally felt. There is also frequently an inequality of the bone at the broken part, which assists in pointing out the nature of the injury. “ Cause.—The cause of this injury is a blow upon the inner side of the foot, or some vio- lence which forces it outwards against the lower extremity of the fibula; and I have known it broken by distortion of the foot inwards. A fall laterally, whilst the foot is confined in a deep cleft, also produces this accident. I broke my right fibula by falling on my right side whilst my right foot was confined between two pieces of ice, and I could with difficulty support myself to a neighbouring house by bearing upon the in- ner side of my foot. I went home in a car- riage, and every jolt of it gave me pain at the fractured part as I suspended my leg upon my hand. I knew that the bone was broken by the severe snap which I felt in the part at the moment of the accident. “ Treatment. — The treatment which this injury requires is, to apply a many-tailed bandage upon the limb, and to keep it wet with a lotion of spirit of wine and water; to apply a splint, with a foot-piece on each side, padded with cushions in such a manner as to preserve the great toe in a line with the patella, (an invariable rule on these occa- sions,) and to place the leg upon its side in the serniflexed position, so as to relax the muscles, and render the patient’s position as easy as possible. “ A want of attention to the treatment of this accident leads to permanent lameness. Dr. Blair, a naval physician in the American war, informed me that he found great diffi- culty in walking the streets of London on one side of the way, but upon the other he walked better than on flat ground ; and when I remarked his lameness, and inquired into its cause, he informed me it had arisen from a fracture of the fibula, which happened many years ago, and to which not having applied splints, the foot became twisted, so that he walked better upon an inclined plane than upon flat ground.” Fractures of the two bones of the leg toge- ther are more common than all those of the same two bones singly ; indeed, the cases are three or four times more numerous than the single fractures of either bone. The most common accident is a transverse division of the bones about three inches above the mal- leoli. A rather frequent and serious set of accidents consists of different fractures of the two malleoli, or of the inner malleolus, and of the fibula, close above the ankle: these ma- terially involve the ankle-joint. The tibia, being sometimes luxated, and the mischief being complicated with laceration of integu- ments, presents us with very formidable con- ditions, the whole train of whose consequences demands all the powers of surgery. The divisions of the upper third of the tibia arc rare, and mostly somewhat oblique; Fig. 337. Fig. 337. Fracture of the Ulna and fibula repaired- Pressure in a direction downwards and outwards> has caused oblique fracture of both bones inferiorh/. This case may be advantageously compared with {he following example.