837 CORNEA. most direct vascular connexion ; though from the close anastomoses which the capillaries of one structure have with those of the others, all are apt to suffer. As it is with secondary, so it is with primary inflammations of the cornea ;—its conjunctival layer, its proper substance, or the membrane of Descemet, may be the focus of disease, but the others will participate in its radiations to a greater or less extent. Traumatic Inflammation of the Cornea. In simple traumatic inflammation of the cornea, there is injection both of the sclero- tic and conjunctival vessels, especially on that side of the cornea nearest the injured part. The only appearance in the cornea itself is opacity to a greater or less extent, and of a greater or less intensity. Vessels are seldom visible. The pain is slight, but is very severe if the inflammation has extended to the deeper parts of the eye. By rest, cold lotions, and antiphlogistics, this slight degree of inflammation usually sub- sides in a sound constitution, and the cornea clears. The result of injury of the cornea, however, even when trifling in degree, is not always so slight as above described. The inflammation is sometimes severe, obstinate, and dangerous, involving not only the cornea itself, but also other parts of the eye, both external and in- ternal. The membrane of the aqueous humour is particularly liable to suffer ; and iritis on the one hand, and inflammation of the proper sub- stance of the cornea, ending in purulent infil- tration, on the other, are not unfrequent com- plications. In a man who had a glassful of ardent spirits thrown against his eye, inflammation of the membrane of the aqueous humour came on, but in a very slight degree. Dimness of the posterior surface of the cornea, most marked towards the centre, some discolouration of the iris, faint sclerotic redness, dimness of vision, and slight circumorbital pain, were the symp- toms ; but they passed off in a few days under the use of no other remedy but cold applica- tions to the eye. A severer form of inflammation from injury of the cornea is often met with in reapers, who have had the cornea abraded by a stroke from an ear of corn, though a similar inflammation often arises from other injuries. The patient presents himself to the surgeon with the cor- nea muddy and of a greenish yellow hue, the iris discoloured, and pupil contracted, with considerable conjunctival and sclerotic injec- tion, such as is seen in catarrho-rheumatic ophthalmia. These objective symptoms are accompanied by fever, severe circumorbital or temporal pain, aggravated at night, and dim- ness of vision. If the inflammation is allowed to run on, or if treatment fail to arrest its progress, purulent infiltration of the cornea, hypopyon, and effu- sion of lymph into the pupil, may take place singly or together. The ultimate result is loss of the eye, either by the bursting of the cornea and the formation of staphyloma, or by atro- phy- Treatment.—Mercury is our principal re- medy, after the abstraction of blood. The extent to w-hich venesection should be carried ought to be carefully regulated by the circum- stances of the case ; it is not to be dreaded too much on the one hand, nor, on the other, pushed, by repetition, too far. The pupil is to be kept dilated by belladonna, smeared on the eyebrow; and when the progress of the in- flammation is arrested, the exhibition of bark, as a general remedy, and the application of a solution of corrosive sublimate, (gr. H—j— 3vij) wdth vinum opii (3j) as a local remedy, will powerfully promote the cure. In illustration of the dangerous nature of the inflammation which is apt to take place in consequence of abrasion of the cornea in reapers, it is mentioned by Professor Walther, of Munich, in a small work, published thirty years ago *, that, in the Isar district of Bavaria from fifty to sixty eyes used to be annually lost, during harvest, from this cause. Inflammation of the Conjunctiva Cornea. In many cases of conjunctivitis, the con- junctiva corneae remains quite unaffected ; in other cases, the inflammation, sooner or later, spreads to it also. Sometimes, on the other hand, it would appear that the injection of the sclerotic conjunctiva is the consequence merely of the afflux of blood to the primarily affected conjunctiva corneae. Besides the cases of inflammation of the conjunctiva corneae, attended with the forma- tion of phlyctenulae and pustules, ending in ulceration of the cornea, there are others, in wdrich the conjunctiva corneae, at some point, becomes opaque, thickened, and elevated merely, and receives from the circumcorneal conjunctival net-work a fasciculus of red ves- sels. The opacity and vascularity may gra- dually spread across the cornea. Such a case constitutes what Dr. Mackenzie describes un- der the name of vascular albugo. It occurs especially in scrofulous adults, and sometimes in children. Certain inflammations of the conjunctiva, falling into a chronic state, are apt to become fixed in the conjunctiva corneae. The cornea is then vascular and nebulous on its surface, or there are superficial ulceration, and, here and there, vascular specks or real red granulations. In a practical point of view it is of import- ance to distinguish inflammation of the con- junctiva corneae from inflammation of the pro- per substance of the cornea; for the former may be efficiently treated by local remedies which have no control over the latter. On the other hand, under the general treatment necessary for inflammation of the proper sub- stance of the cornea, inflammation of the con- 1 Merkwiirdige Heilung cincs Eitcraugcs, p. 25. Landsliut, 1010.