146 AMPUTATION. it will be found advantageous to leave out the principal bundles at the extremities ol the wound, where they serve as conductors to the escape of any pus that may form. But stray ligatures, situated far from these extremities are sometimes better brought out at the near- est point of the edge of the stump, where they may be placed between the straps of plaster used to unite the wound. Care should be taken that each bundle and each separate ligature be drawn straight, so as to lie in a straight line from the knot to the exterior of the wound; because, if they are allowed to bag, the arched part tends to prevent the union of the wound; or, what is worse, be- coming enclosed between its adhesions, is the cause why the ligatures do not come away, and cannot easily be withdrawn at the proper time. Mr. Crosse, to whom I am indebted for this remark, thinks the neglect of this precaution is the real cause of the difficulty sometimes found in removing the ligatures. The above precaution having been attended to, if the surgeon find the ligature rise, which it will often do, half an inch or an inch, so that less of it is buried in the stump, he knows that it is detached and remote from the ves- sel ; and though resisted by granulations, he does not hesitate to use considerable force to remove it. As it is desirable to leave as little foreign matter as possible in the wound, both strings might be removed with advantage near the knot, but that the latter would not easily come away. It would have to make its escape through parts healed over it, if one string were not left to keep the path open, and would thus cause greater irritation, and retard the com- plete cicatrization of the stump more than an entire ligature. This has been proved by direct experience. Mr. Fielding of Hull found that knots left buried in wounds pro- duced pain and irritation for several weeks, and even for months ; and the same effects in- duced Mr. Lawrence to discontinue the prac- tice of having them thus enclosed, although he took great pains, and employed the fine dentists’ silk, of which the knot weighed only from ,5 to j'n of a grain. Similar results have followed in the trials made of ligatures com- posed of catgut and other animal substances, which it was supposed might possibly be ab- sorbed. It will be proper, then, to continue the prac- tice of leaving one string, until we discover a substance for ligatures susceptible of being ab- sorbed without producing too much irritation. Some surgeons of our own time have attempt- ed to dispense with ligatures altogether. Koch of Munich has been in the habit of relying, as a sufficient means to stop the bleeding, on the exact union of the wound, and some degree of pressure exercised on it by the dressing, and on the course of the principal artery by a bandage. Other modern practitioners1 have 1 I think Delpech, and some of the Italian practi- tioners. contented themselves with the application of ice to the stump, after closing it firmly with straps or by suture. These and similar measures may suffice to arrest the bleeding in many cases, but in many others they would be followed by dangerous haemorrhage. To have recourse to, or confide in them, cannot be justified on any rational grounds. They are little better than those employed by the ancients, and any attempt to recommend them must be viewed as tending rather to the retrogression than to the ad- vancement of surgery. Far more deserving of consideration, and probably much less hazardous, is the plan of arresting hemorrhage by torsion of the arte- ries, which will be fully examined in the article Torsion. It appears to us to rest upon the same phenomena, as those which explain the ab- sence of bleeding in cases where the arteries are irregularly broken, as when a limb is torn off. Torsion may deserve to be ranked, as far as convenience and perhaps safety is concerned, next to the ligature ; but is, certainly, not suf- ficiently safe to supersede it. Velpeau, who appears to have given it a fair trial, was obliged to relinquish it, in consequence of the dangerous haemorrhage which sometimes followed its employment. The results of the treatment of bleeding arteries by Fermeture1 and Folding", which have been fully noticed by the same author, prove that they are less efficient than torsion. Although the other measures we possess of arresting haemorrhage may rarely, if ever, be needed to stop the bleeding after amputation, they are not to be entirely lost sight of by the surgeon who undertakes this operation ; because, it is possible he may sometimes find it useful to call them to his aid, and when had recourse to, in conjunction with ligatures, they tend, in the proportion to which they are em- ployed, to render a less number of these ne- cessary. Dressing after amputation.—The ameliora- tions that have been introduced, in the mode of dressing the stump, are no less remarkable than those which have marked the successive periods in the history of amputation. The system of filling the cavity with lint or charpie, and of swathing the stump with com- presses, and covering with the Maltese cross, the woollen bag, or cap, and various other means formerly in use, are now very properly Abandoned. From the time when Alanson first pro- pounded the doctrine, and recommended the immediate union ot wounds after amputation, the practice has been gradually advancing in favour, till now, when it may be said to con- stitute an exclusive method amongst British surgeons. Many of the continental surgeons^ 1 Closing or stopping the mouth of an artery, hy inserting into it a cone of alum, cut in the shape of a cone. , , , , 2 Doubling or folding the end of the vessel back on itself, and replacing it thus folded, in the soft parts, and closing the lips of the wound firmly upon it.