CHONDRITIS. ?71 a time attain the polish and smoothness of ivory In cases where the radio-humeral articulation was also affected, and the head of the radius had assumed a globular form, Mr. Adams saw the cartilage “ removed altoge- ther, and its place occupied by an ivory-like enamel V’ In other cases he has found “ the bones of this articulation enlarged, hard, and presenting a rough porous appearance, while the cartilage was entirely removed : but in these cases no ivory deposit was formed. These were cases in which the same disease existed locally, and the same disposition pre- vailed in the constitution : but from the bones having been kept in a state of quietude, the rough surfaces of the articular extremities had not been smoothed by the effects of friction, nor an ivory-like enamel formed.” In the shoulder the cartilage is found dull, softened, raised from the bone to which it is less adherent than usual, partially or wholly detached, and often has a worm-eaten appear- ance. The termination will be either forma- tion of ivory deposit, ankylosis, or total de- struction of the joint. Treatment.—The diagnosis and treatment of diseases of the joints is a department of sur- gery in which we have decidedly taken the lead of our continental neighbours. For this superiority we are almost entirely indebted to the acumen and industry of Sir Benjamin Brodie. Until his important researches had been promulgated, the treatment of these diseases was an opprobrium to our art. Af- fections of the most opposite character, which demanded very different treatment, were grouped together under the same appellation, and the same routine of remedial means was gone through. Whenever a joint was the apparent subject of disease, a course was com- menced consisting of local bleeding, blisters, frictions with various stimulating substances, caustic issues, moxae, or setons, and frequently the internal exhibition of mercury. But the profession having no fixed principles for their guidance in their application of the therapeutic agents, they were employed in an irregular and capricious manner, were consequently of little avail, and the joint was doomed to the knife, if within its scope ; or if not, the suf- ferer was left to his fate. Sir Benjamin Brodie pointed out the different diseases to which the joints were subject, the means of distin- guishing them from each other, and the treat- ment beneficial in each disease, and now with- out any addition to our remedies many limbs are preserved which would formerly have been sacrificed, simply from the manner in which our increased knowledge leads us to direct the application of those remedies. The indications for the local treatment of a joint, the cartilages of which are ulcerated, are to prevent any increase of the morbid action from motion, shocks, or any other cause of irritation. Then regarding the ulce- rative process as the result of chronic in- 1 Cvclowrdia of Anatomy aiul Phvsiologv, vol. ii. p. 79. - Ibid. flammatory action to lessen and subdue this by means of counter irritation. The first object is to keep the affected joint in a state of the most absolute quietude, for if the disease be recognized in its early stage, and the joint be carefully retained in a state of complete immobility, the excavated surface will become filled up with a liga- mentous tissue, and the joint be restored to an almost perfect condition. In the more ad- vanced stages the soft or bony ankylosis is the most favourable termination that can be looked for, and this can only be insured bv main- taining the joint in a fixed position. Various plans have been recommended for the purpose of fixing the joint. Common splints well padded are often applied with this intention, but they are inconvenient, and cannot be made to retain their position with perfect ac- curacy for any length of time. Leather moulded to the form of the joint, or wetted pasteboard, answer better, but they are inferior to the bandages stiffened with starch, albu- men, or resin'. A common calico bandage well covered with mucilage of starch may be rolled around the affected joint, and for some distance above and below it. This adapts itself to all the inequalities of the surface, and when it has dried, a sort of immoveable case is formed, which effectually prevents motion, and keeps up a slight degree of uniform pres- sure around the joint. The objections to their use are the length of time they require to dry, and the softening they undergo if much per- spiration exude from the limb. On both these accounts albumen affords a preferable mode of forming an immoveable apparatus. It may be applied on layers of tow, or carded cotton, and allowed to dry ; or it may be first thick- ened with flour, and the joint having been covered with a layer of soft lint, the mixture is to be spread into slips of calico cut into the form of splints, which should be applied on each side of the joints so as to cover it, and secured by a bandage. This is a very efficient mode of procedure, but a spirituous solution of some of the gum-resins W'ould probably be superior, as from the rapidity with which spirit evaporates they would soon dry and leave a stiff bandage, on which cold lotion might be readily applied if desirable. It re- mains to be proved wffiether this could be effected and the bandage remain unsoftened by the temperature of the limb. Whether this be so or not, by placing the joint in such a position as shall relax the principal muscles acting upon it, and by applying the wetted pasteboard, the egg and flour splints, or the starch bandage, we have it in our power to keep the limb in a state of perfect rest, and as these means are effectual for the purpose, it is submitted that they should be univer- sally adopted, if there be no inflammatory con- dition of the soft tissues to contra-indicate their 1 Sir B. Brodie thinks, on the whole, that the lea- ther splint is best, as it is capable, if necessary, of be- ing so easily removed. It is very well made by Mr, Sparkcs of Conduit Street. 3 D 2