3G9 ARM, BEND OF. Between the biceps and brachial muscles there is mostly a quantity of cellular and adipose tissue which surrounds the artery, veins, and median nerve ; this substance some- times becomes inflamed, giving rise to deep- seated abscess, which requires peculiar cau- tion in opening, on account of the number of vessels in its vicinity. The brachial artery lies upon the inner and anterior surface of the brachialis anticus muscle, on the outer side of the median nerve, which at the bend of the arm is not very close to it, owing to that nerve passing more inwardly to dive under the pronator radii teres muscle. The artery passes downwards towards the radius along the triangular space found between the outer and inner muscular eminences, and on the inside of the tendon of the hiceps muscle ; when about two inches below the tuberosity of the inner condyle of the humerus it divides into the radial, ulnar, and interosseous arte- ries, which will be described elsewhere. This artery is accompanied by two veins called the satellite veins, or venae comites, or deep hu- meral veins ; one of these vessels generally passes over the front of the artery near the middle of the bend of the arm. This artery is first partly covered by the inner border of the hiceps muscle, a little lower down by its ten- don, and “ fascia tendinosa by branches of the internal musculo-cutaneous nerve ; by the median basilic vein ; by lymphatic vessels ; by the superficial cellular fascia; by a layer of adipose substance ; and, lastly, by the integu- ments ; of these different parts the most im- portant in a practical point, are the basilic vein and biceps tendon. The humeral artery is generally described as being crossed by the basilic vein at the middle of the bend of the arm ; therefore, M. Gerdy, like many other writers, says, there is much less danger of wounding the artery when bleeding that vein, above and below, than in the middle point ; frequently, however, the artery takes exactly the same course as the vein ; but even then, there is in fact more danger of wounding the artery in this middle part, on account of its passing over the most prominent point of the brachialis muscle, causing it to be more super- ficial, and less likely to escape injury, that muscle presenting a resisting surface ; where- as, if venesection be performed lower down in the same vein, there is much less risk of punc- turing the artery, because it lies deeper, and is also more protected by the biceps tendon and fascia; nevertheless, it is always impru- dent for the surgeon to open the vein in the course of the artery, a subject which we must touch upon presently, as it presents much in- terest. This artery can always be felt pulsa- ting at the bend of the arm ; the operator should always examine this region very care- fully before bleeding or cutting down upon the artery, on account of the frequent irregulari- ties which that vessel presents ; surgeons have often been much puzzled at meeting with these anomalies, during their operations, of tying the brachial artery, but in many cases a VOL. I. minute inspection of the limb might have pre- viously put them on their guard. For a knowledge of these varieties of the artery, the reader must refer to the works of Meckel, Harrison, Tiedeman, and my friend P. H. Green’s interesting little book “ On the Varieties of Arteries.” All anatomical museums contain preparations of such cases ; several are mentioned in Dr. Hodgkin’s ex- cellent catalogue (sect, iii.) which is a most praiseworthy example to all professors of ana- tomical collections, which at present are of very limited utility, owing to their being so little known to the profession at large; we hope to see the former taste of giving splendid representations of interesting preparations which are concealed in cupboards, revived ; the labours of Ruysch, Sandifort, and Fred. Meckel, show that the subject is not unworthy of great minds. Notwithstanding the great diffusion of anatomical knowledge, this artery1 is still sometimes injured in “ bleeding ” at the arm by ignorant or incautious operators ; the result of this wound is almost always an aneurism, of that kind called “ false diffused, false circumscribed,” or both these together ; or of that kind termed varicose aneurism, which may also be accompanied by one or both of the two former. As this is a point of great practical importance, and as we possess an observation of this disease, which is badly understood, we cannot refrain from publishing it, hoping it may throw some light upon an obscure affection, and elicit further observa- tions. This species of aneurism was first clearly pointed out by Dr. William Hunter (in 1757 and 1762). This celebrated man was too modest to attach much importance to the name of this disease,—“ whether it should be called an aneurism or a varix, or both or neither.” It would appear2, however, that he named it, “ aneurism by anastomosis, being caused by an anastomosis or communication of the vein and artery.” George Cleghorn, pro- fessor of anatomy in Dublin, was the next per- son who distinguished this sort of aneurism. In a letter to W. Hunter, Cleghorn gave a very good account of a case which occurred after bleeding, in the arm of a boy aged seven- teen. Cleghorn proposed calling this disease aneurismal varix. In describing the symp- toms of this affection, he lays great stress upon the thrilling sensation and hissing noise which are perceived by placing the ear upon these aneurisms, or by applying one end of an 1 Formerly this accident was of very frequent occur- rence. Dionis tells us, that “ a celebrated surgeon, whose name is much respected among us, and who was most skilful, and had acquired greater famefor hleedimj than was ever possessed by any other phlebotomist, confesses to have opened the brachial artery eleven times in the course of one year (before 171b'); a misfortune which he could not avoid, says Dionis, be- cause he was called to so many difficult cases.”—Hui- tieme Demonstration Anat. p. 593, 4. 2 Sec S. Cooper’s Surg. Diet. B n