EMMENAGOGUES. 74 ELEVATOR. An instrument employed to raise portions of the cranium when de- pressed. See Head, Injuries of. ELYTROCELE (from eXvrpov, vagina, and Kr\\t\, a tumour). Vaginal hernia. See Hernia. EMBROCATION. See Liniment. EMBRYOTOMY. See Cephalotomy. EMBRYULCUS. The ancient crotchet. EMETICS (from ipeio, to vomit. Syn. ffiiriKov, Gr. ; emelicus, vomitorium, Lat. ; vomitif, emetique, Fr.; Brechmittel, Ger.) Substances capable of producing vomiting, independent of any nauseous taste or flavour, or of any effect arising from the mere quan- tity of matter taken into the stomach. Emetics are derived both from the organic and inorganic kingdoms ; of the former, the potassio-tartrate of antimony, ammonia, and the sulphates of zinc and copper are the prin- cipal ; and of the latter, ipecacuanha, scilla maritima, asarum europeum, anthemis nobilis, sinapis alba, and nicotiana tabacum. Besides these, we must enumerate as emetics any causes which operate on the brain so as to affect the stomach by sympathy, or which ex- cite the muscles concerned in the act of vomit- ing ; as the motion of a vessel at sea, or of a carriage on a rough road, swinging, &c., or mechanical irritation of the fauces. Passing over the questions of the modus operandi of emetics, and the mechanism and physiology of the act of vomiting, we have to consider the uses of this class of therapeutic agents to the practical surgeon. The first effect of an emetic on the system is nausea, with general depression of the cir- culatory and nervous systems; this is followed by ejection of the contents of the stomach, and subsequent alteration in the qualities of the gastric fluids. If the action continue, bile is also thrown up, it having been passed into the stomach in consequence of the com- pression sustained by the liver and gall blad- der. During the act of vomiting, the blood is forcibly propelled through the vessels of the abdominal viscera, by which the nature and amount of their secretion is altered, espe- cially that of the kidneys, which is much augmented. The pulmonary vessels are affect- ed in a similar manner, their exhalations being rendered much more copious. The distribu- tion of blood to all parts of the system is equalised, determination taking place espe- cially to the general surface, inducing dia- phoresis, thereby removing local congestions, checking effusions into the serous cavities, and enabling the absorbent vessels to act more freely. Each of these effects may be taken advantage of by the surgeon. The stage of depression he seizes as affording the most favourable period for the reduction of dislocations, and as a means of checking haemorrhage, provided this do not proceed from very large vessels, being especially beneficial in menorrhagia and the haemorrhage of dysentery. The removal of poisonous, acrid, intoxicating, or indigest- ible substances from the stomach, is an effect obviously desirable in every case of disease or injury which can fall under our care. The pressure on the abdominal viscera has been considered as serviceable in assisting the ex- pulsion of biliary and renal calculi, and the expectorant action in relieving the effects of pulmonary congestion from any cause. In the early stages of traumatic fever, benefit is de- rived from the action of emetics on the gene- ral surface and on the secretions, and to the same effects their beneficial results are to be attributed in cases of glandular inflammation, swelled testicle, ophthalmia, tonsillitis, and the various forms of serous effusion. Emetics are contra-indicated in plethoric subjects, especially where there is any tend- ency to cerebral congestion ; in all cases of extreme debility ; in acute inflammation of any of the important viscera of the body ; in advanced pregnancy; in intestinal hernia; and in prolapsus uteri. With regard to the choice of the substance to be employed, the salts of copper or zinc would be selected if immediate action were desired ; the tartar emetic if we wish to induce the greatest amount of debilitating action ; and in all other cases some prepara- tion of ipecacuanha. EMETO-CATHARTIC, (from s^rog, vomiting, and tcadapriKog, a purgative.) Any substance which produces both vomiting and purging. EMMENAGOGUES (from tpfirjvut, the menses, and ayio, to drive). Medicines which have the power of promoting the menstrual discharge. These substances can only be con- sidered as relative agents, acting according to the different conditions of the general sys- tem, electricity being the only means by which we can reasonably expect to directly stimulate the uterus ; experience having proved that the ergot of rye, and stimulating injections into the uterus, have very little power as emmenagogues in the majority of cases. Deficient menstruation can rarely be con- sidered as a primitive affection, in the great majority of cases being merely a symptom of general constitutional disorder, plethora on the one hand, or debility on the other. Thus iron, good living, cold bathing, and open air exercise, may be powerful emmenagogues on one class of patients ; and abstinence, purging, cupping on the loins, or leeching the groins on the other. Savin, cantharides, aloes, black hellebore, gamboge, and other substances which act as drastic purgatives, and also stimu- late the urinary organs, have been regarded as specific emmenagogues ; but though they certainly do cause determination of blood to