AMAUROSIS. 78 I consider as functional disease, that which is not accompanied by any change in struc- ture which can be detected, and decided to be the result of a morbid action. Our know- ledge, at present, only enables us to deter- mine with any accuracy on such changes in the solid or firm textures of a part or organ ; whilst, at the same time, there may exist va- rious morbid conditions of the fluids, espe- cially in respect of superabundance or defi- ciency, which the most experienced and dili- gent pathological inquirer cannot determine to be the result of a morbid action, nor dis- tinguish from a change produced during the expiring vitality of the part. The fluids are, strictly speaking, as much a part of the organization of an organ as the solids, and any morbid condition of them ought properly to be termed organic, as much as if it occurred in the firm texture ; but the foregoing explanation of the term functional is that, I believe, most generally accepted, and that which I shall adopt, as facilitating description, and enabling me to give it with more practical utility. Other distinctions or divisions of amau- rosis are, however, recognized, arising from the degree, the extent, the duration, or the cause of the disease, which, though for the most part obvious, I shall nevertheless here point out, that I may be clearly understood in the subsequent use of the various terms. Amaurosis—is perfect, complete, or entire, when the patient has lost perception of light. It is imperfect, whilst any degree of vision exists, but the entire field is obscured. It is incomplete, when a part, or parts, of the field is or are obscured, whilst with the other part or parts the patient enjoys vision. It is temporary, or intermittent, when the vision is obscured or lost for short periods, but perfect or good in the intervals of the amaurotic attacks. It is recent, or inveterate, according to the time of its duration. Functional Amaurosis—(retina). Definition.—Diminution or loss of vision from affection of the retina only, without any perceptible change in structure. When the power of the retina is annihi- lated, the optic nerves, I believe, invariably shrink ; and I have known little more than the neurolema to be found, in the extent of the optic nerve from the sclerotic to the optic commissure, in a case of functional amaurosis, originally confined to the retina, and of many years’ duration. I have also seen the altera- tion extend beyond the commissure, but not so far as the quadrigeminal bodies. Symptoms.—Gradual or sudden diminution or loss of vision, affecting the entire field ge- nerally ; but now and then the field is only partially obscured, or insensible, whilst the other part remains perfect, or obscured in a minor degree. Appearances.—Pupil usually large, round, and fixed, the motive power of the iris being destroyed ; sometimes the pupil is irregular, the irregularity corresponding with the un- equal sensibility of the retina ; occasionally the iris is tremulous ; and when the amaurosis is of imperfect character the iris moves slug- gishly and perhaps irregularly. Prognosis—depends upon the extent and duration of the mischief. If the disease be recent and imperfect the prognosis is favour- able ; if imperfect, but of long standing, it is much less so ; if recent, or of long standing, but complete, very unfavourable. Causes.—A very common cause of the im- perfect disease is non-exercise of the organ, as in a person who squints and uses only one eye ; or in a person short-sighted who uses a single glass and always to the same eye ; or in those who use frequently a high magnifying power with the same eye, proving that the retina requires exercise to maintain its power as a muscle does. Secondly,—excess of the ordinary stimulus (light), or its too great brilliancy, affects the healthy retina. Every one is familiar with the dark spectra which result from gazing at the sun for a moment or two, and can easily comprehend how the continued influence of bright light may occasion loss of sight. When the light is very brilliant and unexpected, the functions of the retina may be partially or completely destroyed in a moment; thus the artist who was engaged to take the panora- mic view of London from St. Paul’s cathedral for the Colosseum, was intently regarding some object by the aid of the camera lucida, when the transit of a dark cloud allowed the brilliant rays of the sun, concentrated by the instrument, to strike unexpectedly on the retina in the axis of vision; the effect was instantaneous palsy of that portion of the retina : it has not recovered its function, but that of the sur- rounding parts remains perfect. In the same way vivid lightning acts in producing amau- rosis. I do not believe that the electric fluid has much if any influence in creating the dis- ease, as I can hardly conceive it possible that such an effect only would result from so pow- erful an agent; though in a less destructive form I can imagine that electricity might annihilate nervous function. An ordinary degree of light may so over- excite the retina when in a morbid condition as by degrees to destroy its function and occa- sion amaurosis ; thus it is, in severe cases of scrofulous ophthalmia of long continuance, and attended at first with great intolerance of light (photophobia). I have known patients be- come amaurotic without any perceptible orga- nic change, and in which I could not attribute the loss of vision to other causes than diminu- tion or destruction of the power of the retina from long-continued over excitement, in the manner above-mentioned. Thirdly,—Concussion from a shock which does not produce any perceptible organic lesion, is a frequent cause of partial or com- plete amaurosis. When the eye is unpre- pared for violence, a very slight blow will de- stroy the functions of the retina, but if the violence be expected, it will sustain a violent