AMPUTATION. 159 to make a track for the saw, clearing the bone at that part, of any shred of muscle, &c., that may remain attached. A small plate of wood or pasteboard is then introduced on one side of the bone, and a small saw at the other. The bone is then sawed in bevel or splice. Vel- peau recommends the bone to be bevelled towards the ulnar side for the two last fingers, and towards the radial side for the two first. The index, middle, and ring-finger, are the best suited for amputation in the continuity. Fig. 13. Fig. 13 represents the amputation of the middle metacar- pal ; the bone, a, is ait in splice to allow the better coaptation of the sides of the wound. The deformity is scarcely perceptible after an amputation of this kind. The haemorrhage may arise, either from the digital arteries, or from their trunk; when from the latter, the two divided extremities may require to be tied. In general, however, the coaptation of the lips of the wound, with even gentle compression, will be sufficient to arrest the bleeding. Louis, in the case of a young girl, sawed off all the metacarpal bones at the middle. A flap with a semilunar edge towards the fingers was formed on the back of the hand ; another in the palm, by passing a narrow bis- touri, fiat and close to the bones from one side of the hand to the other, and cutting downwards to the proper extent ; the inter- osseous spaces were then cleared with the point of the knife for the saw, which was ap- plied to each of the bones in succession. AMPUTATION OF THE METACARPAL BONES IN THE CONTIGUITY. Amputation of the thumb.—The thumb on its dorsal surface is so bare, that the articulation of the metacarpal bone with the trapezium may be easily felt, especially by bringing it close to the index finger. The articulation itself is sepa- rated from that of the index finger by a small bony projection from the trapezium. The joint formed between these two bones, a sort of arthrodial ginglimus with loose ligaments, is slightly concave from without inwards, with an oblique direction which corresponds with a line drawn from its outside, towards the root of the little finger. Although there could be no impropriety in amputating the anterior part ot the meta- carpal bone of the thumb in the continuity, if the disease was confined to it, still its mobility is so extensive that its disarticulation is most commonly preferred, on account of the great facility with which it may be effected, and by whatever method the surgeon may think proper to adopt. With oneflap.—The hand being in pronation, the thumb is abducted from the fingers; the soft parts are retracted by an assistant. The sur- geon applies the edge of the bistouri, with its point upwards, against the centre of the commis- sure, and striking at once towards the ulnar side of the bone, guides himself by it till he reaches the carpus (g, c, fig. 12). The incision is still further prolonged to the extent of five or six lines, both on the dorsal and palmar surfaces, in order to give greater facility for disarticula- ting the head of the bone from the trapezium. If the knife has not been kept close to the bone, it may reach the carpus on the other side of the little bony tubercle of the trapezium, and, in that case, the operator will be puzzled to open the j oint. This difficulty will be avoided by making the incision in the manner de- scribed. The joint is opened by inclining the edge of the bistouri outwards, and all the liga- ments are divided with its point. The head of the bone being now freed, the edge of the knife is brought out, and an external flap is formed by keeping as close to the bone as possible (e,f). The quantity of soft parts pre- served will be still more considerable, if care be taken, in making the first incision, to in- cline the edge of the knife towards the ulnar side of the hand. The second incision is car- ried a few lines lower than the metacarpo- digital articulation. Fig. 14. Fig. 14 represents the amputation of the thumb with a single flap: the flap is thrown back against the side of the wrist: a, marks the articular head of the trape- zium. If the radial artery has been divided, it will be found at the upper end of the second metacarpal bone, where it may be tied ; if it has not been touched, the other small dorsal arteries of the thumb will, in general, cease to bleed upon the coaptation of the lips of the wound. It will be necessary to make use of a compress, after the adhesive straps are ap-