740 CATHETERISM. scribe a segment of a circle by bringing the handle down nearly to parallelism with the thighs, the alteration of direction being thus made to compensate for the absence of curve in the instrument. During all this movement of lowering, the bee remains pivotting in the same place, and is, in fact, the centre of the circle, of which the handle has been describing a segment. The surgeon now places his right hand in supination, and receives the shaft of the instrument as a violin player holds his bow, between the thumb and three middle fingers ; the left and right hands now act simultaneously, the former pressing down the integument of the pubis to relax the suspen- sory ligament, while the latter communicates a gentle impulsion to the shaft of the instru- ment in a horizontal direction, by which the bee is made to enter the isthmus of the ure- thra, and pass along the muscular portion to the anterior edge of the prostate. If there be no enlargement of the gland, no elevation of the neck of the bladder in consequence of flatus or impacted faeces occupying the cloaca of the rectum ; in a word, if the prostate be in the normal condition in which it exists in a person of from forty to fifty years of age, the bee of the instrument will, without any altera- tion of direction, continue to advance till it arrives in the bladder ; for the bed of the prostatic urethra, though in a higher plane than that of the muscular portion, allows itself to be depressed by the instrument, and thus the further alteration of direction of the bee becomes unnecessary. This will not be the case when the gland is enlarged to any extent, for then the bee will be stopped at the edge of the prostate, and the direction must be altered by bringing down the handle between the thighs, so that the shaft of the instrument must be impelled in a slanting direction from below upwards, before it can clear the rest of its course to the bladder. All these ma- noeuvres must be made with suavity and gen- tleness. It cannot be too oft repeated or too deeply impressed on the mind of the surgeon, that in catheterism of whatever kind, the em- ployment of force is absolutely forbidden. New mode of catheterism. — Having now taken an extensive view of the subject, we come to propose a mode of introducing the catheter, founded on our own observations of the urethra, and differing from those above described, not only as to the manner, but also as to the rules by which W'c are to be guided in its performance,—a mode, the simplicity of which is not its strongest recommendation, for its value is confirmed by some extent of experience, and by the testimony in its favour of many of my fcllow-practioncrs, whom I have been successful in inducing to adopt it. In our consideration of the urethra it w ill be seen that we consider the entire canal in man as composed of a male and female por- tion ; the former associated with the penis, moving with it in every direction, serving for the object of sexual congress specifically, and but incidentally only for conveying the urine out of its reservoir ; in a word, the moveable division of the urethra : the latter, similar in structure in both sexes, in both having the same length and direction, and more or less closely attached to bones or enveloped by muscles, the fixed, or female urethra. Philo- sophically speaking, the female urethra is the type of the canal and exists alike in both sexes ; all the ante-pubic portion is but a pro- longation of the tube, superadded for a pur- pose wholly different from that of the excre- tion of urine. All this anterior portion is confessedly moveable, and the admission is equivalent to a demonstration of the inutility of the rules laid down for the introduction of instruments, as far as this portion of the canal is concerned, whether it be by the ordinary mode above the pubis, or by the so pompously named tour de mailre. An instrument, whe- ther straight or curved, can be carried down to the bulb, no matter whether the direction of this portion of the canal be upwards, down- wards, forwards, or lateral; whether it be curved or straight. This point being indispu- table, the question arises,—what mode of pe- netration is easiest for the operator and for the patient ? what mode should be preferred with reference to the fair direction of the bee of the catheter into the commencement of the second division of the canal, and its ulterior progress through this fixed portion towards the bladder? The best, the easiest, the least painful is undoubtedly that which insures the unimpeded passage of the bee throughout the w'hole course from the glans to the bulb ; which leaves no doubt as to the bee arriving at this point without stopping short of it or going beyond it, and which places it most favourably by the performance of a very simple manoeuvre, for falling directly into the opening of the triangular ligament. Our reason for finding fault with the posi- tion which we are directed to take on the left side of the patient will nowr be best explained. The patient being on the left edge of the bed, the surgeon places himself on his left, oppo- site the pelvis. Now if the penis is held be- tween the fingers of the surgeon’s left hand, it is evident that the motions of his right hand must obtain from right to left, or across the front of his own body ; the inconvenience is not felt so much while the catheter is advancing through the moveable portion of the urethra, when the left hand principally is at work, but when the handle is brought down from the abdomen and the bee begins to turn under the arch of the pubis, the hand comes into a state of pronation, which is the most inconvenient for the movement of impulsion onwards to- wards the bladder, and this movement of im- pulsion is the very reverse of the first move- ment, for it proceeds again across the opera- tors body, but in an inverse direction, i. e. from left to right. The force of a bad pre- cept is here fully shown, for who, without having been previously misled, would have ever thought of directing the catheter from the patient’s left side with the right hand in 8