768 chondritis; against each other. Thus, when the knee is affected, the patient limps with the heel raised, so that the least possible approxima- tion oF the articular surfaces may ensue. In- deed, considerable motion of the joint can sometimes be borne, provided the limb be a little stretched. The patient rests for a few days, and the pain is removed, but it returns very soon after exercise is resumed, and gene- rally with augmented intensity, more confined in its situation, and followed by a considerable degree of stiffness. When the hip-joint is the seat of the disease, the pain is usually referred to the knee. The head of the tibia is the chief seat of pain when the knee joint itself is affected. In the other joints the pain is usually referred to the actual seat of the dis- ease ; but in addition to this, a tormenting sensation of pain and numbness is felt along the shaft of the humerus, when the shoulder- joint is the seat of ulceration. In the case of a lady I was lately in the habit of seeing, this symptom had completely led her physician from the seat of the disease ; he considered it pathognomonic of angina pectoris. In case of disease of the elbow-joint also, pain and numbness is sometimes felt in the wrist and back of the hand. As the disease advances, the pain is accom- panied by distressing spasmodic twitchings of the limb, especially at night, and some swelling of the joint becomes evident on examination. The enlargement of the joint is rendered more evident, as the muscles have by this time be- come considerably diminished in volume in consequence of their inaction. The swelling has the exact form of the articulating extremi- ties of the bones, and is unaccompanied by fluctuation, unless other changes have taken place. There will evidently be fluctuation if synovitis be also present, or if suppuration have taken place, and pus has been discharged into the synovial cavity, or into the cellular tissue surrounding the joint, or sinuses formed in the soft parts, as is commonly the case if the disease have proceeded to an advanced stage. The patient may remain some time in this state, and if unrelieved, will almost ne- cessarily sink under the exhausting pain and protracted irritation. The course of the disease occupies a very different period in different cases. In some the pain will exist for many weeks, without the presence of any other symptom, but the patient very soon sinks when suppuration has commenced. In other cases the disorganiza- tion of the joint advances very speedily, and its effects on the system vary with the general power of the sufferer. We have seen a case in which there was surprisingly little disturb- ance of the functions, though, as was proved by examination of the amputated limb, effu- sion of pus and lymph had taken place into the cavity of the joint. There was caries of the ends of the bones, external oedema, and suppuration ; and permanent flexion of the limb, with consecutive luxation. This, how- ever, was a very singular case, as almost uni- formly such a state of local disease is accom- panied by hectic, night sweats, and diarrhoea, and if the limb or joint be not removed, the patient sinks exhausted. With the exception, perhaps, of this very advanced stage, a reparative process may be set up in any period during the progress of this disease. It (joes not appear that a per- fect restoration of cartilage which has been lost by ulceration ever takes place, the exca- vation being in the most favourable cases filled by a ligamentous tissue. Even after simple division, it was found by Beclard and Dorner that union was not effected by carti- lage. Where the whole of the articular car- tilage has been removed, a compact layer of white osseous matter, perfectly smooth and of a marbly hardness, supplies its place. In some cases of chronic rheumatic disease of the joints a total absorption of cartilage takes place, and the bones are exposed, their articu- lating surfaces being smoothed by friction. The surface is not destroyed : it is preserved, or its place supplied by a growth of ivory-like substance. In the gouty diathesis this layer is sometimes very thick, being a crust of lithate of soda. The course of the disease as usually ob- served has been described, but in the eleventh volume of the Medico-Chirurgical Transac- tions, Mr. Mayo has described a class of cases marked by acute synovitis, not occasioning effusion of synovia ; but considerable oedema or suppuration in the tissues external to the joint, with rapid absorption of the articular cartilages, followed by bony anchylosis. Ra- pid absorption also occurs in those fearful cases of acute arthritis, which occasionally supervene during the progress of erysipelas, phlebitis, and the diseases of the puerperal state. It is necessary, therefore, to make some allusion to these cases. The general symptoms are usually those of extreme depression of the vital powers, with either a very excitable state of the nervous system, or confusion of the intellectual facul- ties, often stupor, low muttering delirium, petechiae, and meteorism. After a short time, the most, severe local symptoms com- mence in one joint, and successively attack several others, or appear in many joints simul- taneously. In some cases there is rapid effu- sion into the synovial sac, without much pain, but more frequently the pain is very acute. This has been especially remarked in the puerperal cases. The integuments are red, turgid, and doughy to the feel, and there is usually a good deal of oedema throughout the whole limb. In a case of this kind, I had lately the opportunity of observing, the sub- cutaneous veins were remarkably varicose. This is a class of cases in which the ratio of mortality is very high, not so much from the extent of the local disease, although this is so great, as from the peculiar condition of the whole system :—a state in which large deposits of purulent matter take place into various organs and tissues, their structures fre-