CANCER, PHYSIOLOGY OF. 609 cancer, nor does hypertrophy of the heart from disease, or of the muscles from frequent exercise, ever present any other change (ex- cept slight increase of consistence) than that implied by this term ; besides carcinoma ap- pears in situations where the cellular tissue is either very scanty or does not at all exist. According to Dr. Hodgkin the septa are “ neither the dilated terminations of the ex- treme branches of any of the three vascular systems, nor modifications of the cells of the cellular membrane,” but the walls of newly- formed cysts, as already explained. The microscopical descriptions of Muller argue for their new formation. On the other hand Cruveilhier believes them composed of the parietes of distended veins ; an obvious diffi- culty attending this notion being got over by the hypothesis “ that the existence of a natural venous plexus, wherever a normal secretion is accomplished, and of an adventitious venous plexus wherever an accidental morbid secre- tion or process is in activity, is a law of the economy.” The opinion of Cruveilhier is purely hypo- thetical ; neither of the others is exclusively correct. That the septa of one variety of mammary scirrhus are formed of the laminar intersections of the gland does not admit of a doubt; but they are these laminae not merely thickened and indurated, hut also infiltrated with cancerous matter : in another variety the lactiferous ducts manifestly form the radiating septa of the growth. On the other hand the argument of Dr. Carswell respecting the ab- sence of cellular membrane proves conclu- sively, that in some situations the septa are of new growth. Besides, as has been remarked by Berard, if the new portion of carcinoma were limited to the contained matter, this morbid structure would hardly present the uniformity of aspect and properties which, with unimportant exceptions, it is observed to possess in every organ and tissue of the economy. The exclusiveness of authors’ opin- ions appears to have originated in their re- ferring solely either to infiltrated or tuberi- form cancer. The application of the microscope has within the last few years given a new character to our knowledge respecting the growth and increase of carcinoma. Before stating the theory to which Muller has been thus led, we shall briefly describe the doctrine professed by Schwann on the development of the normal embryonic tissues1 ; the former is little more than a novel application of the latter. According to Schwann the primitive or em- bryonic structure of almost all animal tissues is demonstrably cellular ; the component cells are, further, identical in point of structure 1 See Froriep'9 Notizen, Nos. 91, 103, 112. January, &c. 1838. Schwann’s observations were originally made on the embryos of the lower animals, some of them mammiferous : but that the mode of growth described by him prevails at least in the car- tilaginous tissues of all animals, is spoken of by Muller as matter of certainty. VOL. I. with those of plants, and originate and are developed in pursuance of the same laws as those discovered by Schleiden to regulate the cells of plants. The young cells always con- tain a nucleus in their walls, from which they originally sprang ; and they grow either within pre-existing cells (and consequently from nuclei formed in the cavity of those cells, and without connexion with their walls) or out- side those pre-existing cells. Now the former mode of formation occurs according to Schwann in cartilage and in the chorda dor- salis1 ; the latter appears to prevail in many other parts, inasmuch as all the tissues of the embryo, according to the same physiologist, consist of cells with a parietal nucleus, and the origin of new cells in the interior of the old ones cannot be demonstrated in all of those tissues. In the adult, too, we have an example of the production of cells with a parietal nucleus outside the old cells in the instance of the epithelium ; no encasement (einsckachtelung) of cells is perceptible here. (Henle.) The formation of new cells is best observable where it takes place in the interior of old ones, that is where the nuclei apply themselves to new cells developed in the interior of the pre-existing ones. This de- velopment occurs in the following manner. Each nucleus produces a new cell, which pro- trudes from its surface like a watch-glass from a watch: with the progress of growth this new cell enlarges, and the nucleus re- mains permanently in its wall. When se- veral young cells are thus produced in the interior of a mother-cell, they fill it com- pletely when full-grown, and their walls be- come incorporated with those of the mother- cell. Fresh nuclei form in the interior of these young cells, producing in their turn a third generation and so on. The walls of the new cells are perfectly transparent; those of the old thicken, and in many cases become the seat of fibrous formation. ‘ Thus are pro- duced and grow the cells of cartilage and of the chorda dorsalis, and probably of the decidua likewise. It follows further from these observations on the tissues of the em- bryo, that caudate corpuscula are a metamor- phosis of primitive cells. The external mem- brane of the ovum, among other parts, re- gularly contains such bodies, which run into long filaments, and thus form the fibres of that tunic. Now that the development of carcinoma proceeds on similar principles is according to Muller, from whom we have chiefly bor- 1 This body must not be confounded with the spinal chord. The chorda dorsalis, which is developed along with the laminae dorsales from the primitive streak of the embryo, and consists at first simply of a row of dark globules, more closely aggregated towards the anterior extremity than elsewhere, runs exactly in the axis of the future spinal column—the bodies of the vertebrae in fact form around it. It appears to be analogous to the cartilaginous filament found persis- tent in the vertebral column of some cartilaginous fishes. (Vid. Burdach’s Physiologie, bd. ii. s. 244,