ECTOPIA. 56 sugillation are of the same nature ; the latter, however, is employed more especially to de- signate the bruised appearances arising from the action of suction on the surface of the body, or that of intrinsic causes. In its limit- ed and medico-legal sense, sugillation expresses the phenomenon of extravasation in regard to the dead body, which ecchymosis does in re- gard to the living. Of itself, the ordinary ecchymosis demands but little interference from the surgeon. Under the influence of external applications, such as vinegar and water, camphorated spirit, liquor ammoniae acetatis, the lotion of muriate of ammonia, &c., or simply by compression alone, it is soon dispersed ; the progress of removal by absorption of the effused fluid being indi- cated by the change of colour of this part, from black, blue, or livid, to brown yellow, and pale yellow. But when it occurs as a consequence of some internal malady, its dis- persion must depend on the successful treat- ment of the primary affection. ECCOPEUS. An ancient instrument used in trephining. ECTHYMA. The term ikdvfia was used by the Greeks almost indifferently with tSav- Orifia to signify an eruption in a general sense ; but by Ecthyma we now understand an erup- tion of pustules, usually distinct from each other, raised on a hard circular base, which enlarge successively, and become inflamed at the base, while pus forms in the apex. They then break, the pus escapes, and afterwards a sanious fluid exudes, which concretes into hard dark brown scabs. The several varieties of this disease always appear under circumstances which have debi- litated the patient, intemperance, or the action of the poison of syphilis. In the com- mon varieties, good diet, cleanliness, mild laxatives, cinchona and chalybeates, with the occasional use of the warm bath, will suffice to complete the cure; the syphilitic form must be treated in relation with the cause producing it. ECTOPIA (from tic, oat, and tottoq, place). An abnormal state of the topical relations either of any part of the frame to others, or of the component divisions of any part to each other. Thus defined, ectopia includes con- genital malpositions and acquired misplace- ments. The former belong to the subject of Teratology, and will not be further referred to in the present article ; the latter comprise some of the most important conditions which it is the province of surgery to remove or to relieve. It is not, however, intended in this place to enter practically into the considera- tion of acquired ectopiae ; but simply to pre- sent a classification of these—a definition, with illustrations of each species—and a few remarks upon their general characters, their etiology, and their effects, immediate and re- mote. The reader will thus be furnished with a general introduction to the articles devoted to the particular description of these lesions. From the definition, it appears that dis- placement may affect either a part only, or the entire of any organ or division of the frame. The most prominent result will be, in the former case, a change of attitude, or of shape; in the latter, of situation : hence arise the three natural classes of displacements ex- hibited below. We say the most prominent result, because the characters of one class are combined in certain ectopiae with those of another; not to such a degree, however, as to affect the type of the displacement. DISPLACEMENTS CHARACTERISED BY A CHANGE OF A. ATTITUDE (Heteraxia)». I. Deviation. B. SHAPE (Heteromorthisms) s. II. Flexion. III. Kampsis. IV. Change in the mutual rela- tions OF THE SURFACES OF HOLLOW ORGANS. V. Change in form of the walls OF CAVITIES. C. SITUATION (Heterotopia)3. VI. Heterupsia. VII. Proothesis. VIII. Dislocation. IX. Detrusion. X. Translation. A. displacements characterised by a CHANGE OF ATTITUDE (HETERAXIA). I. Deviation. Changes in the attitude or bearing of a part are conveniently ex- pressed by the term deviation, which im- plies a variation of axis. In establishing its varieties, (as those of every other displace- ment,) we suppose the body to be in the erect position, and to present an anterior, a posterior, and twro lateral surfaces, a superior and an inferior termination. These varieties arise from implication of the a. vertical axis. b. antero-posterior or transverse axis. a. Deviation of the vertical axis produces 1. obliquity. 2. version. 1. Obliquity may be : a. lateral, f}. anterior, y. posterior. The pregnant uterus, for example, is liable to the two former modes of displacement. A certain amount of lateral obliquity of the 1 From in pas, other, and afcuiv, an axis. 2 From iTipos, other, and pop(pt],form. 3 From irtpos, other, and tottos, place.