110 EMPYEMA. modified; for vve have observed cases of en- largement of the liver, wherein the super- jacent intercostal spaces were manifestly more prominent than those of the other side. The greatest difficulty in establishing a diagnosis arises when the liver has been, previously to the setting in of enlargement, or during a very early stage of that process, confined in situ inferiorly by adhesions, so that the augmenta- tion of size principally affects the superior limits of the organ. The history of the case must here be our main safeguard against error, particularly if false membranes, as is not un- common in such cases, have been thrown out in quantity about the base of the lung. Enlargement of the Spleen.—The spleen is sometimes found sufficiently enlarged to in- crease visibly, and under mensuration, the dimensions of the corresponding side. Now enlargement of this organ, in the great majority of cases, arises in connexion with continued or intermittent fever: an inquiry into the circum- stances attending the increased dimensions of the side, will therefore lead to a just apprecia- tion of the cause of such change. The form of the part emitting a dull sound on percus- sion will further localize the enlargement in the spleen ; and the condition of the respira- tory murmurs, posteriorly especially, proves the freedom of the pleura from effusion. When the two sources of enlargement co- exist, it might be difficult to assign to each its precise limits; but pleuritic effusion of any extent is one of the rarest concomitants of continued fever : and out of a large number of cases of enlargement of the spleen, conse- quent upon intermittent fever, we do not re- member to have seen one attended with fluid accumulation in the pleura: the difficulty will therefore rarely arise in practice. The distinction of an external abscess com- municating with the pleura from a mere parie- tal collection of pus, is to be established by the history of the case, and the presence of the physical signs of empyema. The source of an abscess resulting from perforation of the costal pleura may sometimes be ascertained, as long since observed by Foubert *, and sub- sequently by others, from its increasing in size during expiration, and falling to its pre- vious dimensions during inspiration. In a case observed by Dr. Stokes, where parietal abscess co-existed, but did not communicate, with an empyema, this alternate change of size did not exist. This was of course to be expected ; but it may be doubted whether elevation and depression will attend cases of communicating abscess with sufficient inva- riableness to form a perfectly trustworthy ground of diagnosis between the two species of case. Treatment.—There are three objects to be kept steadily in view in conducting the medi- cal treatment of empyema: 1. The prevention or controlling of febrile action. 2. The pro- 1 Memoires de l’Acndemie Roy ale de Chirurgie, t. i. p. 717. 12 motion of absorption. 3. The support of the general health. 1. If the antiphlogistic plan have not been put in force with sufficient energy during the acute stage (for the treatment of which some medical treatise may be consulted); if febrile action, accompanied or not with local pain, exist in a subject labouring under chronic pleurisy ; and if the constitutional powers ap- pear not to be seriously depressed, general bleeding, to a limited extent, may cautiously be had recourse to. But it is easy to do mis- chief by venesection ; even under the circum- stances supposed, an amount of depression will occasionally follow very moderate loss of blood from a vein, which may not easily be recovered from. We have known the in- creased power of absorption acquired by the veins, when comparatively empty, urged as a motive for the performance of occasional bloodletting, unless debility had made ad- vanced progress : but such notion savours much more of the pursuit of experimental physiology than of clinical medicine, and we notice it merely to guard the student against its adoption. The occasional application of a few leeches or cupping-glasses, is, however, not liable to the objection attaching to general depletion ; on the contrary, this is a most important part of the treatment. Six or eight leeches may be applied to the affected side, and the appli- cation repeated two or three times a week for say a fortnight,—and this even in cases where febrile action and local pain are almost or totally absent, provided the effusion be not of old standing, in which case we have not found much gained by leeching. At the end of this period, should the physical signs mani- fest no reduction in the amount of eff usion, it is decidedly unjustifiable to carry local deple- tion further. The antiphlogistic regimen must be enforced during this period. The exhibition of calomel and opium, until very slight soreness of the gums be induced, at the same time that local abstraction of blood is carried on, is a practice recommend- ed by very eminent observers, and one in the efficacy of which we have ourselves very considerable faith. Even when this combina- tion fails to act as an excitant of absorption, feverish action is controlled under its use, and the general condition of the patient propor- tionally improved. But we are disposed to agree, with Professor Williams, in his belief that little benefit follows the use of mercury in the late and asthenic stages of simple pleu- risy (provided by these be understood the really advanced stages of the disease, when it has become decidedly chronic), and that the constitutional action of mercury is actually injurious when the effusion is of purulent character. 2. Should the disease not yield to these measures, the promotion of absorption is to be further attempted by the use of medicines acting upon the secretions, or the use of such medicines may be commenced while the fore- going plan is pursued.