ERYSIPELAS. 157 2 Op. cit. 8 Mem. de la Soc. Med. d’Emulation, t. viii. Fontani mentions that in twenty such cases there were seventeen deaths '. In some instances erysipelas would seem to have been but the salutary crisis of other and even inveterate diseases. Frank saw women completely freed from leucorrhcea and from gouty and rheumatic pains by a super- vening erysipelas 1 2. Hoffman mentions other diseases, especially convulsion, asthma, and mucous colics, finally put an end to by a critical erysipelas 3. This important point of view suggested to Dr. Sabattier the idea of his interesting thesis “ on erysipelas consider- ed as a therapeutical means4.” He saw many instances of the salutary influence, and some- times of the permanently curative effects of erysipelas in eczema, sycosis, psoriasis, lichen, and even in lupus and elephantiasis. He gives an interesting case of severe erysipelas that was followed by the rapid cicatrization of syphilitic ulcers and the disappearance of venereal nodes and tubercles, and also of a double incipient cataract, that had been diag- nosticated before the invasion of the erysi- pelas. But he observes that the various ac- cidents, that depend upon a syphilitic cause, reappear after a certain time if not suitably treated. Nature of Erysipelas.—No question has lent itself so pliantly to the various theories that have reigned in medicine than the nature and consequent treatment of erysipelas. It would be idle of us to enter into any discussion re- specting the mystic interpretations of the ancients, or some of the equally gratuitous hypotheses of modern times. A complete antithesis of opinion exists on this subject even at the present day, some considering erysipelas to be purely inflammatory5, while others refuse it any inflammatory nature6. With regard to the anatomical nature of ery- sipelas, according to Blandin, it varies with its anatomical nature, cutitis prevailing in spontaneous erysipelas, while in the traumatic kind lymphitis is the first and chief element of the disease7. Dr. Ribes, however, con- siders erysipelas to be a capillary phlebitis 8. If we consider erysipelas solely with reference to its local manifestations, it is impossible not to recognize in it the fundamental characters, if of not a frank and legitimate inflammation, at least of a fluxionary movement, with modi- fications varying according to the nature of the causes that have given development to it ; but if we consider it in relation with the entire organism, and this is the proper view to be taken, we find its scope enlarged and its special genius declare itself, and it would be highly erroneous to see in it a pure inflatn- 1 Thesc9 de Paris, 1831, no. 193. 2 Op. cit. 3 Op. cit. 4 Theses de Paris, 1831, no. 209. 5 Lawrence, Op. cit. p. 17. Macfarlane, London Medico-Chirurg. Review, July 1834. 6 Pearson, Principles of Surgery, 1808. Arnott, London Med.-Chirurg. Review, July 1834. 3 Op. cit. mation, a disease circumscribed in the limits of its topical manifestations : an error that would be highly injurious in its results, as it would lead to therapeutical indications that would be insufficient or hurtful in their ap- plication. Besides, the disproportion that frequently exists between the general and local states, the gravity of the constitutional symptoms often contrasting with the benignity and limited extent of the eruption, as well as the insufficiency of antiphlogistic means in arresting its progress, show that the inflam- matory local phenomena do not constitute the whole disease. We cannot in the pre- sent state of the science do better than adopt the opinion of Frank ‘, that the nature of erysipelas would seem to partake of inflam- mation and exanthema, the development of which is owing to causes that we are in total ignorance of, and it is just as little proved that erysipelas depends upon an “ acrid or affected state of the fluids 2,” as that it is the “ aposthematum maxime igneum” of Van Helmont3. Necropsy.—“ It is not exact to state that simple erysipelas leaves no trace of its exist- ence after death : a brownish tint replaces the erysipelatous redness, the epidermis is easily detached, and the pressure of the finger leaves a marked indenting after it4. Louis found the skin hard, thick, and friable. Ribes says, the venous ramusculi of the integuments are visibly affected, and that the inflammatory redness of their internal tunic is very re- markable 5; but, as Rayer observes6, this state can only apply to the subcutaneous veins ; the tensity of those of the vascular rete and papillae of the skin, rendering it im- possible to establish their inflammation in this way. This author adds, that the inflamma- tion of the subcutaneous veins is far from being constant, and even the pus, they some- times contain, may have been absorbed ; and this opinion he substantiates by a case, in which, although the veins were bathed in pus, and contained this liquid in their cavities, they did not present the least trace of inflam- mation. He also found the lymphatic vessels of the lower extremities free from inflamma- tion, although containing purulent matter in their interior. These observations tend also to invalidate the theory of Blandin 7, or at 1 Op. cit. 2 Diet, of Pract. Med. by James Copland, M.D. &.c. 3 [Science is indebted to Dr. Williams of St. Tho- mas’s Hospital for pointing out the dependence of Erysipelas upon the agency of a morbid poison, its analogy with other diseases of specific origin, and es- tablishing its infectious nature. He says, " I have so often seen erysipelas spread in St. Thomas’s Hospital from an erysipelatous patient confined to his bed, to one labouring under a different disease, also confined to liis bed, that there is the strongest evidence for be- lieving it to have been communicated through the medium of the atmosphere.” Elements of Medicine, vol. i. p. 263. Its contagious nature is proved by in- oculation.—Ed . ] 4 Chomel. 5 Op. cit. ® Op. cit.