713 C ATHETERISM. theter, with a rnandrin to give it firmness and shape. Tliis sort of instrument will sometimes be received more kindly by the urethra, on account of its more yielding material, and more perfectly polished surface. But varying the size, form, or material, is not our only re- source under such circumstances. If we can- not succeed while the patient is in the re- cumbent position, we must try in the erect, and vice versa. But we shall not dwell any longer on this point, as from what our own experience has taught us, we are satisfied that complete success is fully within the limits laid down, when the canal is not pathologi- cally obstructed. We shall, therefore, at once suppose that the steps described have been duly taken, and that the bee of the catheter points fairly into the aperture of the triangular ligament, and begins its progress through the post-pubic or fixed, portion of the canal; it now becomes the patient’s duty to aid the operator, and this lie may do most effectually, if he be reason- able and obedient. The muscles of the peri- neum and muscular portion of the urethra, whether acting as involuntary or voluntary muscles in straining, though they may not actually stop a well-directed catheter, will render its progress painful and difficult. The patient, therefore, should breathe freely, keep- ing his mouth open, and refrain from all effort of the diaphragm ; the importance of this ob- servation is obvious, even in the administra- tion of lavements, for if the person cramp the diaphragm, strain, and hold in his breath, the handle of the syringe is stopped, and its contents arc not propelled into the intestines. The patient must carefully refrain from stiffen- ing himself, or straining, while the catheter is advancing. The fact that should be now most fully present to the surgeon’s mind is that of the perfect resemblance between the female ure- thra and that posterior portion of the canal which the catheter has to traverse ; this single idea will do more to simplify his proceedings, and to render him cool and collected, than all the rules he can find in all the books that have ever been written on the subject. If the bee of the catheter be directed in the axis of the gently-ascending curve of the fixed urethra, while the surgeon inclines its handle downwards between the thighs, it glides on- wards, as smoothly as it is wont to do in the urethra of the female, without hitch or effort, into the gulf of the bladder ; this will be the case nine times out of ten. But it is our duty not to dismiss the subject in too summary a manner. We have to grapple with the case of difficulty, however rare it may be, and to point out the means by which the difficulty is to be either avoided or overcome. We have already dissented from the opinion that inordinate vital action of the muscles of the urethra could oppose the passage of a ca- theter, to any considerable, much less to an invincible extent. But let us now suppose a species of mixed case. In timid, nervous, and irritable persons, let us imagine the spasmodic resistance of the muscles to be at its maxi- mum. 1 have already said, that however strongly the muscles are excited to resistance, they soon relax, and the impediment which was not, even at its highest, invincible, ceases. But let us suppose the involuntary contraction, either of the muscular fibres surrounding the urethra, or of the perineal muscles themselves, to be reinforced by local congestion or inflam- mation in this portion of the canal, and the case alters materially ; to the exaggeration of a physiological function, there is added an un- favourable pathological condition, and the pas- sage of the catheter, which, with involuntary muscular contraction alone, was perfectly prac- ticable, more particularly if the instrument was advanced gently, and without hurry, becomes difficult and painful. When these conditions are conjoined, as they are most commonly, in persons suffering from urethritis, or who have suffered frequently from urethral irritation, or in whom, from some remnant of those irrita- tions still lingering in its posterior portion, the urethra is still exquisitely sensitive, the pubo-urethral muscles perform a most active part in elevating and nan-owing the muscular portion of the urethra. It was necessary to place such a case before us (although, strictly speaking, it belongs to another division of our subject,) in order to develope the rule which applies to this species of difficulty. The bee of the catheter having passed into the isthmus is, let us suppose, arrested ; any attempt to continue its course, however well directed the instrument may be, is strenuously resisted. The surgeon who has once expe- rienced this sensation of resistance recognises it instantly. The wall of the urethra itself, when in a passive state, never communicates the same kind of feeling. The catheter is actively opposed, and if the hand of the sur- geon be removed from it, it will have a per- ceptible tremulous, or oscillatory motion, showing at once the activity of the opponent powers. The spasmodic contraction of itself would not have opposed a long enduring resistance to the progress of the catheter ; neither would the congestive or inflamed condition alone suffice for this effect. They must be con- joined in order to stop its progress. When one or the other ceases, the route of the in- strument is almost as completely restored, as if neither existed, and accordingly we observe in such cases, when left to themselves for a short time, the obstacle ceases. The conges- tion is not removed, of course, but the muscles, by the very violence of their contractions, are soon fatigued, they then relax gradually or sud- denly, and the canal becomes so unobstructed that the catheter seems to pass into the blad- der without any assistance. The duration of the spasm may be abridged by distracting the patient’s attention from what the surgeon is engaged in. This will be very successfully done by seeming to suspend the attempt at