96 EMPYEMA. fluid occasionally increases in quantity until its very amount interferes by pressure with the further progress of effusion. In other words empyema is established. The anatomical characters of pleurisy, chronic from the outset, differ somewhat from those of the acute form with effusion. The pleura is said by Laennec to be of deeper red colour in the former than in the latter ; the pseudo-membranous matter is deficient in consistence and plasticity ; the effused fluid abundant, turbid, and of heavy or alliaceous odour. It is frequently mixed with variable quantities of pus ; where this is abundant, the fluid is dense, viscid, and of greenish hue. Pure purulent effusion, except when the purulent diathesis exists, is of extreme rarity; and many collections habitually called “ puru- lent” or “ puriform” may be shown by the microscope to contain not a single pus- globule. It is not very uncommon to find membra- nous matter in different stages of existence, indicating a succession of partial inflamma- tions. More recent products are frequently found in such relationship to formations of older date, as to render it obvious that they were produced by the latter and not by the pleura itself. The lung is now reduced to the least pos- sible size ; closely adherent to the spine, it sometimes measures less than half an inch in thickness : its properties of tissue may be the same as already described, but in some in- stances the organ has undergone manifest atrophy. Atrophy is especially to be observed in cases where the pulmonary tissue is sub- jected to direct and constantly increasing com- pression from the contraction of cellulo-fibrous pseudo-membrane investing it. That this con- traction is infinitely a more effectual cause of such atrophy, than the pressure of pleural fluid, appears from the fact, that that anatomi- cal change may be confined to the part of the lung embraced by the pseudo-membranous tissue, while those portions equally exposed to the pressure of the liquid effusion retain their natural density and structure. Of this we have seen numerous examples, but we can refer to none more conclusive than that figured by Dr. Carswell, in his Fasciculus on Atrophy (PI. 1. Fig. 1). Tubercles in various stages of advancement may be present, and dilatation of the bronchi is sometimes observed. Partial destruction of its substance and fistu- lous communications of various kinds (See Fistula, Thoracic) are found in some cases. The subcutaneous cellular tissue may be infil- trated with serum from exhibition through the costal pleura, or this membrane may be perforated and give direct issue to sero-puru- lent matter, which forms abscesses under the integuments, burrowing in different directions and perforating the skin in some cases, where a fistula or cutaneous cicatrix announces the fact. The ribs, vertebrae, or sternum, are sometimes carious and the costal ligaments destroyed. Symptoms.—The local symptoms of acute pleurisy are sharp pain in the side, dyspnoea, short dry cough, and in some instances ten- derness of the intercostal spaces under pres- sure. The general symptoms are those of inflammatory affections in general. The pain felt is of a sharp, cutting and at the same time dragging kind, and much in- creased by coughing and deep inspiration ; is commonly seated below and a little outside the nipple, but occurs in various other situa- tions, and may (but this is not the general rule) diminish or even disappear after effu- sion. At the earliest period the short quick inspirations performed by the patient, and the consequent appearance of dyspnoea, arise rather from an instinctive unwillingness to increase his pain, than from any mechanical obstruc- tion ; with the progress of effusion the latter cause is added. The amount of dyspnoea varies ; it scarcely engrosses the attention of some patients, in other subjects it becomes almost suffocative : variations which are not always explicable by the amount of physical obstruction. Dr. Stokes believes the “ex- citement of the lung attending acute inflam- mation” to be the chief source of the difficulty of breathing. Cough is not of constant occurrence ; when it exists, which is the rule, its absence the exception, it is of the character already stated, unless, as is not unfrequently the case, some acute or chronic affection of the lung or bronchi be superadded : there is then the expectoration belonging to the latter. Tenderness under pressure.—Unnatural sen- sibility may in some cases be proved to exist in the pleura itself, by the fact that pressure upon an intercostal space, gradually increased, does not excite pain, until, from the force employed, the conclusion is that the serous lamina is directly pressed. This sign is rarely to be established, however, and in seeking it there are two sources of error to be guarded against: the presence of rheumatism of the parietes, and the habit of shrinking which some persons have when pressed upon with any degree of force. Decumbiture.—The greater number by far of patients lie on the back previously to the occurrence of notable effusion : after this they usually lie on the diseased side, but it is not ex- tremely rare to find the position on the sound side assumed. Andral describes a diagonal decumbiture, that is, on the back with an in- clination to one side, as the most common posture ; it may undoubtedly be frequently seen, still we should hardly call it the most common attitude. But every one of these local symptoms, which are at the outset commonly marked and attended with hardness, rapidity and re- sistance of the pulse, and constitutional evi- dence of strong reaction, may be imperfectly marked or totally absent. One of the most extensive effusions we ever met with (there was complete dulness above the clavicle with extreme displacement of the heart, &c.) we