120 AMPUTATION. the soft parts obliquely, so as to cut them into a kind of Hap, adapted to cover up the end ot the bone ; and thus may be said to have origi- nated a kind of oblique or flap amputation. This mode was opposed by Koernerding and Heister, and defended by Messuet of Leyden, while La Motte operated after the manner of Wiseman and Dionis. Munichs endeavoured to revive the system of amputating in the joints, which happily had been rarely employed since the time of Guido di Cauliaco. He "was equally unfortunate in preferring styptics to the use of the liga- ture. The next great improvement to that of Pare was made by Jean Louis Petit. More completely master of the circulation than his predecessors, by the use of the superior tour- niquet he invented, he could direct his atten- tion still more exclusively than they, to the form to be given to the wound by the in- cisions ; and to him is due the honour of atfording the patient something like security against that frightful evil—a badly shaped stump. He invented the method of dividing the soft parts by two incisions, limiting the first to the skin, allowing this membrane to retract, and then dividing the muscles. Petit was also one of the first who advocated the propriety of amputation for incurable aneur- isms and certain cases of caries and gun-shot wounds. Shortly after the invention of this method of operating, Ledran performed amputation, for the first time, at the shoulder-joint; and Garengeot, Lafaye, and Sharpe proposed plans of executing the same operation. About the same time, Remi de Vermale and Ravaton revived the kind of amputation pro- posed by Lowdham and Verduyn, and which, it appears, had been indicated, among the an- cients, by Heliodorus. They modified it, however, so much as to make in it two flaps, instead of one ; and from them, therefore, the flap operation, as it was adopted by Dessault, and is now usually performed, may, perhaps, fairly be said to have taken its origin. At this period of the history of amputation, names thicken upon us. Many of the questions relating to it were treated of scientifically by Monro, Guenaud, Blomfield, and others ; but no important change appears to have been projected, until Louis propounded his doctrine with regard to the unequal retraction of the muscles. Upon this he proposed to alter the operation of Petit, by making the first incision divide both the skin and superficial muscles, and the second the deep muscles only; apian very like, if not the same as that upon which Ledran was accustomed to proceed. It had often been a question with surgeons what cases ought to be treated by amputation ; and from being agitated at the Academie de Chirurgie, it was generally discussed at this period, and among others, by Boucher, Faure, Morand, Bilguer, and Shunuker. Shortly after, a good deal was said of amputation in the joints, and surgeons were bold enough to perform it at the hip. Morand was one of the first to describe this operation scientifically. In 1779 Alanson proposed a plan of ampu- tating, the novelty of which consisted mainly in the dividing the muscles obliquely upwards towards the bone, by one sweep of the knife ; but of which the chief merit lies in the mea- sures it prescribes for preserving a sufficient quantity of skin to cover the whole surface of the stump. His mode of cutting through the muscles was found very difficult, if not imprac- ticable ; but the publication of his observations had considerable and perhaps the chief influ- ence in introducing the practice of dressing the wound so as to cause it to unite by first in- tention. Although this practice is generally attributed to Alanson, Benjamin Bell justly claims some share of the merit of it, in his de- scription of amputation, where he states, that from the year 1772 he laid it down as a maxim not to be deviated from, to save as much skin and cellular substance in the removal of tumours, whether cancers or others, when the sound parts admitted of it, as would completely cover the sores ; and in amputating any of the extremities, to save as much of them as would entirely cover the stump. At all events, this plan of causing the stump to heal by first intention—and no fading laurel it is—belongs to English surgery. It was adopted by Hey, and very soon by most of the British practitioners, whose am- putations thus became more successful than those of the surgeons of other countries. In the method of operating described by B. Bell, who, for the complete and scientific manner in which he treats of amputation, takes the lead of his contemporaries, the plan ot preserving skin enough to cover the entire stump is combined with Celsus’s mode of cutting through the muscles. The manner of dividing the muscles by layers, as now adopted, is generally attributed to Dessault; and it is certainly mentioned as his practice, in his works by Bichat, although the case of ampu- tation of the fore arm there recorded as an illustration of it, does not present a methodi- cal description of that part of the operation exactly as it is executed at the present day. All the three last named surgeons employed straight in lieu of the old curved knives, and dispensed with the band, which before their time it was the general custom to tie round the limb, either to benumb the part, or to mark the line of incision. In the modern method of amputating, the skin is preserved for covering the whole ol t he stump, and the muscles are divided by as many distinct incisions as there are layers. It is only true to say, that from the time of Alanson, English surgeons have ever been distinguished for the excellence of their amputations. They, more strictly than any others, adhered to his rules for preserving the skin ; and these, combined with the present mode of dividing the mus- cles, constitute the best possible kind of cir- cular amputation. The history of amputation, while it exhibits