648 CANCER, TREATMENT OF. The number and variety of these distinctive characters seem to require the separation of these adventitious products as distinct species ; while they are insufficient to counterbalance the weighty reasons for uniting them into a genus afforded by their fundamental simi- larity. So true is the latter statement, that some eminent pathologists, as has already been intimated, regard these formations as one and the same primarily, founding their opinion more especially on the following facts. 1. The different species are found coexisting in different organs in the same subject. 2. They are even met with in one and the same organ in close proximity. 3. After the ablation of a cancerous tumour, the reproduced growth frequently belongs to a different species from the original : thus encephaloid follows scirrhus ; scirrhus more rarely encephaloid (Muller) ; encephaloid ap- pears in distant parts after the removal of colloid'. 4. In the hard state encephaloid and scirrhus are not to be distinguished by their physical characters. 5. Structure pos- sessing the appearance of scirrhus may soften into true cerebriform pulp. This is little more than another way of expressing the fourth argument. The accuracy of the first three positions is incontestable; they prove the close alliance of the formations referred to, but by no means demonstrate their identity. It must also be admitted that encephaloid, when in the state termed crude by Laennec, instead of being opaque and whitish sometimes displays a semi-transparent bluish tint, is extremely hard, and presents but little visible vascular develop- ment—characters approximating it to true scirrhus. Attempts have, however, been made by M. Trousseau and M. Rouzet to establish the distinction even under these circumstan- ces. M. Trousseau points out that the grain of encephaloid is larger and less resisting than that of scirrhus, and that the former structure does not, as the latter, creak when divided with the scalpel : M. Rouzet observes that the surface of a section of encephaloid instead of remaining plane, as is the case with scirrhus, springs into irregular elevations, and presents a number of mamillary prominences separated by depressed interstices. These observations are, as may very readily be ascertained, well founded ; but we agree with Professor Berard in thinking, that when the characters in ques- tion appear in encephaloid, that product is perfectly distinguishable at first glance from scirrhus. Yet admitting, as is the fact, that a specimen of hard carcinoma may be shown to an anatomist without his being able to deter- mine whether it would have ultimately pre- sented the apple-juice-like appearance of softened scirrhus or the creamy aspect of diffluent encephaloid, it is still evidently going further than is warrantable to conclude from such inability that the distinction does not really exist. The progress of micrography 1 Cruveilhier, Livrais. v. Testiculc. has shown that certain substances, considered identical by observers misled by gross phy- sical characters, are in reality extremely dif- ferent : a single instance of this—the long subsisting confusion of softened fibrine and pus—is a sufficient illustration. Respect- ing the softening of scirrhus into matter of encephaloid aspect, the presumed occurrence of which, however, may in reality depend upon the inability just spoken of—we have already ventured on a hypothetical explana- tion, apparently less irreconcileable with facts than that for which we desire to substi- tute it. The reader will determine for himself whe- ther the particular properties of colloid justify its separation as a species. For our own parts we can entertain no doubt that, even without taking into consideration the marked peculiarity in the mode of development and growth of its microscopical elements, the position we have assigned this structure is a more just one than that given it by Otto, Recamier, and Carswell, as a variety of scirr- hus, or by Dr. Hodgkin, who considers it “identical with, or bearing the closest rela- tion to fungoid disease.” The degree of affinity of carcinoma and certain morbid formations next requires to be noticed. The majority of writers regard multilocular cysts (the most usual anatomical character of the disease erroneously termed ovarian dropsy) as totally unconnected with cancer. Cruveil- hier and Dr. Hodgkin do not acquiesce in the common opinion. The French observer unhesitatingly classes ovarian cysts with car- cinoma, particularly with the colloid species, affirming that it differs from the ordinary form of this disease simply by the greater size of its meshes. But here is, as we believe, vicious generalization: the general appear- ance of encysted masses is otherwise ex- tremely distinct from that of colloid cancer ; they have neither the regularity of form or arrangement in their loculi, nor the unifor- mity in the contents of these, so remarkable in the latter formation. Besides, as is well known, these ovarian cysts may acquire very considerable size without affecting the eco- nomy in the slightest degree except by the mechanical hindrance to the performance of certain functions : they possess neither the power of converting the adjoining tissues into their proper substance, nor of producing a particular form of cachexia ; and M. Cru- veilhier would be puzzled to find a case of encysted ovary attended with the local and general symptoms of cancer unless deposition of encephaloid or scirrhus had taken place in its structure. Further, M. C. is far from consistent ; for while he regards the septa of colloid as formed of the walls of dilated veins, he considers the primary loculi of encysted ovary as constituted by the vesicles of the part in a state of dilatation' : yet the two 1 This is the only fair inference from the article “ Kystcs” in the 5th Livraison ; but in Livraison