ASPHYXIA. 41 ASPHYXIA, apoplexia, suffbcatio, Lat.; awpvZ'ut, Gr.; asphyxie, Fr. ; Scheintod, Ger. ; | asfissia, Ital. By the word asphyxia is now generally un- derstood a failure of the function of respira- tion, in consequence of which the other func- tions become arrested, and a state of the sys- tem induced which is correctly and familiarly known by the term suspended animation. The derivation of asphyxia, therefore (a, and otyvliQ, pulsus), which lias reference to a failure of the heart’s action, expresses but one of the many consequences that follow a sus- pension of the respiratory process, and does not imply the meaning attached to the word at present. The early writers used the term in its original acceptation, and of late it has [ been extended so as to include all varieties of j suspended animation, such as proceed from 1 lightning, gaseous poisons, and other agents known primarily to affect the brain and ner- I vous system ; the function of respiration i being subsequently arrested. It has also been applied to that stage of malignant cholera which is marked by pulselessness and other symptoms of collapse. In asphyxia, however, the exciting cause, whatever it be, takes effect first on the lungs, the suspended function of which involves very rapidly those of the heart and brain ; in syncope the exciting cause takes effect first on the heart, the suspended func- tion of which extends instantly to those of the lungs and brain ; and in apoplexy the ex- citing cause takes effect first on the brain, and involves, in an interval more or less prolonged, the functions of the lungs and heart. Respiration is an essential function for the manifestations of life in all organized beings. By its influence a chemical interchange is effected between the nutritious fluid circulat- ing within them and the atmospheric air by which they are surrounded. From the lowest vegetable production to man this chemical interchange has been observed; and in the higher orders of animals it cannot, for even a very short period, be put a stop to without the consequences being fatal. It is true that experiments have been made for the purpose of demonstrating that the respiratory function is not essential to the manifestations of life ; and accordingly insects have been placed in vacuo and in irrespirable gases, and have been found to live for days. The fact, also, of worms supporting life in the alimentary canal has been adduced in confirmation of this opinion. But, even admitting in the first place the accuracy of the experiments al- luded to, it by no means follows, because the vital manifestations of the beings experimented upon are not suspended even for days when thus deprived of the influence of the atmo- ! sphere, that respiration is not essential to their \ existence. Such experiments rather tend to prove the power those beings possess of sup- porting life, when thus unfavourably placed, I longer than other animals in whom the organs I of respiration are more centralized and more restricted to the performance of their special vor.. i. function. And when it is taken into account that a respiratory apparatus, on an extensive scale, exists in all insects, ramifying through their several delicate organs, thus bringing the air into close approximation with their tissues, and rendering at the same time their bodies specifically lighter ; and that to this extensive respiratory apparatus the organs of circulation bear no proportion ; it is a reasonable infer- ence that the function of respiration is not only necessary to their continued manifest- ations of life, but that it is carried on in them with a degree of energy in full proportion to their wonderful activity. The accurate and interesting experiments of Mr. Newport on the temperature of insects, published in the Philosophical Transactions for 1837, show, that in an humble bee the number of respira- tions varied in one hour from one hundred and twenty to forty-six, in proportion to its excitement ; and when confined in a limited quantity of atmospheric air a specimen of the same insect produced in an hour, whilst in a state of excitement, J of a cubic inch of car- bonic acid, and during the twenty-four hours of the succeeding day the animal evolved a quantity absolutely less. Neither does it fol- low that, because intestinal worms and other parasitic beings live, increase, and multiply within the hidden recesses of the living ani- mals they inhabit, similar changes are not effected in their circulating fluids as in animals surrounded by the atmosphere. The vital fluids with which these creatures are in con- tact doubtless supply them w ith the means of carrying on the essential chemical object of respiration in a manner allied to the more per- fect aquatic respiration of fishes. Essential, then, as the function of respira- tion is to all living beings in a state of activity, it may, notwithstanding, be dispensed with altogether previously to the phenomena which indicate vital action taking place. Many in- stances are on record of seeds, eggs, and even some of the lower animals preserving, as it has been termed, their “ latent life ” for indefinite periods, without exercising any action on the surrounding atmosphere, and in some cases being altogether excluded from it. Professor Lindley records the following interesting ac- count of seeds which retained their power of germinating for many centuries :—“ I have now' before me three plants of raspberries which have been raised in the gardens of the Horti- cultural Society from seeds taken from the stomach of a man whose skeleton was found thirty feet below the surface of the earth, at the bottom of a barrow which was opened near Dorchester. He had been buried with some coins of the Emperor Hadrian, and it is probable, therefore, that the seeds w'ere six- teen or seventeen hundred years old.” It is likewise recorded that some bulbs which were taken from the hand of a mummy found in one of the pyramids, and which had been immured between two and three thousand years, pro- duced unknown plants when sowed in one of our botanic gardens. Even some animals may