545 BURNS AND SCALDS. is most apt to follow upon burns of the hands and feet, owing unquestionably to the liberal distribution of nervous filaments to those parts. The disposition of these ulcers to close by the approximation of the margins, and to form vicious adherences, is frequently so great as to baffle the most powerful mechanical contri- vances. Thus, it is no uncommon thing to see the fingers thrown back upon the carpus, and confounded with it; the arm permanently fixed to the fore-arm ; the foot distorted in various directions, constituting a misshapen mass, bound to the legRideau mentions that a man, who had a severe burn of the neck, kept the head fixed upon the chest till the sore was healed, by the advice of his neighbours ; in consequence of which the chin remained ever afterwards attached to the breast. Sometimes the head has been re- tracted towards the shoulder, and the nape to the back. As regards the seat of injury, severe burns and scalds of the head and face are perhaps the most dangerous, on account of their prox- imity to the brain, from the risk of menin- geal inflammation. Burns in the orbital region are likewise serious accidents. Fa- bricius Hildanus2 failed in attempting to restore vision to a man, in whom the cornea had been penetrated by a single grain of gun- powder. Those of the eyelids, though appa- rently slight, may be followed by ectropion, partial ankyloblepharon, and symblepharon 3. With regard to the period of life, it may be affirmed that the two extremes run the great- est danger. Young children and infants, from their high nervous susceptibility, speedily fall victims to the constitutional irritation. Per- sons advanced in years, in whom the vital powers are waning, being unable to sup- port the exhausting process of suppuration, commonly die. Should they outlive the ac- cident, the sores are usually transformed into obstinate or intractable ulcers. It is a striking fact, however, that the old, the infirm, and the decrepit, not unfrequently surmount the dan- ger, while persons in the vigour of manhood are borne down.simply because the former are less obnoxious to diarrhoea. The rapidity with which the most robust are reduced by purging is very remarkable. Individuals endowed with a strong bodily frame, and a moderate share of sensibility, are in less danger than those of a nervous ir- ritable temperament, of a scrofulous or scor- butic habit, or those whose constitution has been shattered by previous disease and de- bauchery. It is consistent with extensive ex- perience that severe burns generally prove fatal in subjects addicted to the immoderate use of alcoholic liquors. Patients of a mild disposition, bearing submissively the pain of the injury, and maintaining always the position enjoined to them, however irksome that may 1 Begin, Art. Cit. a I.ib. 4, dc Combustionibus. 3 Jiingken, Lehre von den Angenkiankheiten. VOI.. I. be, have a better chance of recovery, and re- cover more speedily, than those of an irascible, restless temper, who cannot be kept quiet. Treatment. The leading indications are, to calm the pain as promptly as possible ; to prevent the accession of inflammation ; to preserve contiguous parts from mortification ; to promote the separation of dead parts ; and to counteract deformity and disfiguration. No subject in the wide range of surgical therapeutics has, perhaps, obtained more at- tention than that of ascertaining the best means of counteracting the effects of fire upon the human body. It would indeed be a fruit- less task to endeavour to enumerate the mul- titude of nostrums and remedial agents that have been alternately cried up and abandoned. It is, therefore, my intention to detail suc- cinctly those curative measures, which the ample experience of the most enlightened practitioners has shown to be judicious and effective in the treatment of a lesion, frequent in occurrence, and often fraught with danger. The first thing that requires to be done is to remove the clothes from the injured parts ; and this with the more urgency if it be a scald, when the liquid has lodged between the skin and the garments, or if the injury has been caused by the clothes catching fire. In either case the utmost nicety and precaution must be taken so as not to remove the epi- dermis, which is, under such circumstances, generally blistered. Otherwise intense pain, capable of occasioning the most serious ef- fects, may be the consequence. If the legs be severely burnt, the stockings may be left on, as they serve the purpose of dressings, when soaked with the remedy. It should al- ways be borne in mind, that a portion only of the injured parts is to be exposed at a time. We must adapt our curative measures ac- cording to the degree of injury, after its extent has been ascertained. It is generally ad- mitted that slightly stimulating applications after the great stimulus of fire, are attended with the most beneficial results ; therefore, in superficial burns or scalds, the best ap- plication that can be made is cloths dipped in tepid vinegar, which was Hunter’s practice, or a mixture of vinegar and spirits, also tepid. The great advantage attending such remedies is, that they are always at hand. Pencilling over the part with lunar caustic has been recommended ; it relieves pain, and prevents vesication. Liquid ammonia is used in some parts of France, and seems to act in the same way. Refrigerant saline solutions, ethereous and alcoholic lotions, which cool the surface by evaporation, are to be deprecated. Yet Dr. Thomson, of Edinburgh, and Professor Richerand, of Paris, concur in recommending the immersion of the body in cold water, as a means of producing speedy resolution in cases of very extensive superficial burns. The ensuing constriction of the capillaries pre- vents or moderates inflammation, whilst the sedative property of the remedy assuages pain, and impedes the sympathetic effects. N N