EAR, AND HEARING, DISEASES OF. 54 fifteen weeks and four days after the first ap- pearance of the disease. Dissection.—On examining' the cranium af- ter the separation of the morbid mass, an aper- ture was observed in the squamous portion of the temporal bone. After sawing off the upper part of the cranium, a small part of the tumour was found to have passed inwards through the aperture in the temporal bone, and formed a depression on the middle lobe of the brain, about half an inch in depth. This portion of the tumour was as large as a small egg, of a round shape, connected to the large external tumour by a narrow neck, but did not adhere to the brain ; the dura mater was destroyed at the part where the depres- sion was formed. The brain was in other respects sound. On comparing a slice of the brain with a slice of the tumour, the appearance was very similar; the only difference being that the texture of the tumour was firmer than that of the brain. On dividing the small internal tu- mour, it was found to be formed of the same medullary looking substance. On dividing the tentorium cerebelli, a white spot about the size of a sixpence was observed on the cere- bellum. This appearance was caused by ano- ther small irregular-shaped tumour, protruding from the internal meatus auditorius; the whole of the petrous portion of the temporal bone was destroyed. The following appears to be a case similar to the above, but in a less advanced stage. It illustrates the origin of the disease within the cranium. Chassaignac1 relates a case observed by Boyer of cncephaloid tumour, which was, in a manner encased in the right half of the protu- berance, and had pressed upon almost all the neighbouring nerves. But the most remark- able circumstance was, that this tumour pene- trated into the internal meatus, and had con- siderably widened it, so that both portions of the seventh pair had become atrophic. Deaf dumbness. Dumbness is a necessary consequence of deafness which has existed from birth, or which has supervened before the period at which children learn to speak. Dissection of the ears of deaf and dumb persons has, in some cases, disclosed imperfect development of the organ ; in other cases, the ear, though apparently originally well- formed, had become the seat of disease at an early period of life ; other cases again, and these are the most numerous, have presented acquired morbid changes in addition to origi- nal imperfections. In a few cases there has been no appreciable organic defect, original or acquired. The following are the principal morbid states of the ear, congenital or acquired, which have been observed in deaf and dumb persons. Tuberculous depositions, in the tympanum 1 Archives generates de Medecine, second serie, tome vii. 1835, Avril, p. 491. mastoid cells and cellular part of the petrous bone; a thickened and spongy state of the membrane lining the tympanum, to such an extent, Mr. Cock has observed, as to fill up and thus obliterate more or less completely, the cavity of the tympanum, bury the chain of bones, and encroach upon the opening of the Eustachian tube, mastoid cells, and fenestra rotunda ; the membrana tympani more or less destroyed, cartilaginous, or bony ; the ossicles deformed and not in connexion. The membrane of the fenestra rotunda thickened or ossified, the fenestra itself very small or entirely wanting, the promontory absent, and imperfect development of the cochlea. Of all the parts of the labyrinth the fenes- tra ovalis and vestibule have been found least frequently malformed. The former, however, has been met with unusually small, or oblite- rated by having the base of the stapes anky- losed in it. The latter Schallgruber found in one case more contracted than natural. The semi-circular canals are the parts of the labyrinth which have most frequently been found defective in development in the ears of deaf and dumb persons. They are sometimes smaller and narrower than usual; one or all of them have been found wanting, or but partially present. In the latter case, after running a short way, they have been observed stopping short and termi- nating in a cul-de-sac'. The aqueducts have been found unusually large. In the ears of a deaf and dumb man, I found the tympanic membranes gone, the membrane lining the tympanum thickened, spongy, and covered with puriform mucus ; the ossicles dislocated and gibbous. The triangular pouch in the dura mater, in which the aqueduct of the vestibule ends on the surface of the petrous bone (p. 49,) was of unusual size in one of the ears. It was about one-third of an inch long at its sides, and was distended by a clear liquid. Every time pressure was made on the distended pouch, a fine jet of liquid issued through a small opening which had been made in the superior vertical semi-circular canal. Similar cases have been described by Mondini, Dal- rymple, and others. Saissy2, relates a case, communicated to him by Montain, of total absence of the laby- 1 Schallgruber, Einige Anomalien im Bane dcs IJororgans beim Mensrhcn, in Abhandlungen imFacbc dcr Gerichtsarzneikunde. Gratz, 1823. Murer, De causis cophoseos surdo-uatorum. Haftiias, 1825, p. 16. lit/, Mucke, Kurze Uebersicht der gegemvartig be- stehenden Lehr- und Erziehungsanstaltcn fur Taub- stumme, u. s. w. Prag, 1827, p. 19. Cock, Me- dico-Chirurgical Transactions, vol. xix. London, 1835, and Guy’s Hospital Reports, vol. iii. London, 1838. Thumam, Medico-Cnirurgical Transactions, vol. xix. London, 1835. Docliaalek, In Mucke's Vortrag iiber die wahrscheinliche Anzalil dcr Taub- stummen, in Bohmen u. s. w. Prag, 1836, &c., and in Med. Jahrb. der oesterreich. Staates, B. 30. ncueste Folge. 5 Essai sur les maladies de l’oreille interne, p. 241.