CAUSTICS. 718 as to give it the consistence of thin pap; it is then to be laid upon the affected part, in quan- tity proportional to the desired effect. As this caustic seldom produces haemorrhage or any degree of local re-action, it may be re- sorted to with the view of removing superficial degeneration of the skin and naevus. It pro- bably acts by absorbing the liquids, and giving rise to gangrene of the part. A compound, consisting of three parts of hydrate of potash, and two parts of fresh burnt lime, reduced to powder, and incorporated together in a hot iron mortar, has been re- cently introduced into practice under the title of the caustic of Vienna. It is applied in the form of paste, prepared by the addition of a little spirit. It has been found useful in eradicating cancerous growths and naevus *, realizing all the advantages without any of the inconveniences of the fused potash. Nitrate of Silver, or Lunar Caustic, is the most valuable erodent we possess. When placed in contact with animal matter, it is promptly decomposed ; the oxide of silver re- maining on the surface, and by exposure to the light, becoming black. It is the approved application to ulcers in which the granulations are luxuriant and spongy. To this end, the fused cylinder of the nitrate is to be passed with a light hand over the surface of the sore, care being taken to touch the more salient portions only, so as not to erode the cicatrice already formed, and retard the healing pro- cess. The filmy eschar comes away during the interval between one dressing and another; hence the application may be renewed every twenty-four hours, until a salutary change is perceptible. In the case of deep ulcer of the cornea, Dr. Mackenzie of Glasgow recom- mends the momentary contact of a pointed pencil of lunar caustic2. During the appli- cation, the upper lid is to be kept elevated by Pellier’s speculum, and before it is allowed to fall, a little water is to be injected over the cornea. The same practice may be pursued if hernia of the cornea is present, or if the cornea is completely penetrated and hernia of the iris has taken place. In fistula of the cornea, likewise, after snipping off the pro- jecting portion of the conjunctiva, the open- ing is to be touched with the lunar caustic pencil. Cauterization of the margin of the cornea has been recommended by Dr. Serrcs in palsy of the iris, depending on some affec- tion of the ciliary nerves, or other branches of the third and fifth pairs, provided there is no disease of the retina or optic nerves. Forestier, Revcille-Parisc, and Demours con- cur in regarding this as one of the most certain means of inducing contraction of the pupil, when preternaturally dilated ; and Pro- fessor Jiiger has frequently employed it with success in his clinical practice, for mydriasis, the affection in question 3. The cauterization, which should be instantaneous, is to be per- 1 Lancet, 11540. 3 Treatise on Diseases of the Eye, p. 492. 3 Kuukardt, Ucber Mydriasis. Erlangen. 1832. formed at the line of junction of the cornea and sclerotica. It is said to answer when followed by discharge of tears, and slight vas- cular injection of the conjunctiva, which sub- sides in a few days. The lunar caustic pencil may be likewise used, in the instance of incurable lachrymal fistula, for procuring obliteration and adhesion of the walls of the sac ; as also in that of re- laxation or growths within the lachrymal sac and nasal canal. In simple ulceration of the tonsils it is a most efficient remedy, and sometimes proves serviceable against the chronic enlargement of these glands, but the cauterization must be repeated at least every fifth day during some months, ere any adequate diminution can be expected. The nitrate of silver exercises a remark- able power in allaying the increased sensi- bility and pain, and promoting the healing of sore nipples. Here it seems to act by forming an artificial epidermis, which shields the irritated nervous extremities against the contact of external impressions. Its influence in assuaging toothache may be explained in the same way. The free application of this caustic to the lining membrane of the vagina, has proved effectual in curing acute and chronic blennorrhoea: cauterization of the male urethra, to the extent of 2i inches from the orifice, has in like manner been recommended by Dr. Scharlow, in, what he terms, consecutive blennorrhoea1. In the instance of primary venereal sores or excoriations, it may be advantageously a})- plied within the first three or four days. It transforms the sore into one of a healthy nature, accelerates its healing, and, according to Rust, counteracts the absorption of the virus2. Mons. Ricord advocates this plan of treatment, for which, I believe, we were ori- ginally indebted to Mr. Hunter. The same observations apply to dissection and other poisoned wounds at an early period. Its use has been extended to corns. After bathing the feet in hot water, we should pare away the layers of indurated cuticle until we see the skin soft and red, and the capillaries ready to bleed, the caustic is then to be rubbed on the part for a few seconds, after which it is to be covered with oil-silk. This operation must be repeated daily for eight or ten days, when no trace of the corn will remain. The ulcera- tion of chilblains may, in like manner, be pre- vented by gently passing the caustic along the inflamed surface ; the skin having been previously softened by the application of a compress of lint soaked in water. As a means of arresting haemorrhage from leech-bites, the lunar caustic has usually succeeded. Chloride, or, as it is commonly called, Butter of Antimony, is a caustic which acts quickly and to a considerable depth, without ' Giafo and Walther’s Journal, 1839. 2 Aufsatzc uml Abhaudlungcn; Berlin, 1834, p. 1(12.