AMPUTATION. 167 The circular method for amputating the arm is preferable to any of the other modes, more especially when a sufficient quantity of integument can be preserved. In particular cases, however, as, for instance, when the skin has been extensively destroyed, the advan- tage may be turned in favour of the other methods. SHOULDER-JOINT. Fig. 27. Fig. 27 shows the lines of incision forming the flaps in amputation at the shoulder-joint, as performed by several eminent surgeons: a,b,c, double flap (Dupuy- tren ) ; d, e,f do uble flap (Lisfranc); g, h, i, double flap ( Guthrie); i, k, l, double flap (Dupuytren) ; m, n, o, single internal flap (Ledran) ; p, q, r, cir- cular and perpendicular incision ( JJ. Bell) ; s, t, u, triple flap (Broinfleld); v, w, x, the oval method ( S'coutetten and Cornuau ). This articulation differs considerably as to form and composition from any other in the body. The head of the humerus presents the form of a hemisphere, which is rather applied against, than fitted to the glenoid cavity of the scapula, not more than one third of it being received into that articular depression. A loose capsular ligament, attached to the cir- cumferences of each of the articular surfaces, completes the articulation. Large muscles from the front and back of the trunk give strength and support to the joint, while two bony projections, the coracoid and acromion processes, united by a strong horizontal liga- ment, afford protection above. The half arch thus formed projects more than an inch be- yond the glenoid cavity, and may serve as a guide to the articulation. These two pro- cesses often remain for a long time unossified ; a circumstance to be borne in mind, on ac- count of the facility it will afford the surgeon for disarticulating the head of the humerus in young subjects. It will be gathered from this brief descrip- tion, that the projection of the acromion and coracoid processes is at once a guide, and an obstacle to the operator; and that as they over-shoot the joint so much, it will be ne- cessary to preserve a large portion of soft parts to cover them. Amputation at the shoulder-joint.—The pecu- liarity in the form of the shoulder-joint, and the abundance of soft parts that surround it, have given rise to great variety in the modes proposed for the performance of amputation at this point. The circular, flap, and oval methods distinctively, or steps combined from all three have been employed, according to the fancy of the operators. Indeed, it may be said, for this amputation, that each surgeon has a me- thod of his own. We shall only notice those most commonly practised. With a double flap.—The flaps are formed variously, according to the modification of the flap method that may be adopted. All the modifications, however, may be reduced to two classes, according as the wound has a transverse or a vertical direction. Lafaye’s plan, which was an improvement upon that of Ledran and Garengeot, is practised in the following manner:—The patient is seated on a chair, and the arm is held extended in the horizontal position. The surgeon makes a transverse incision on a line corresponding with the insertion of the deltoid. Two other incisions, one internal, from the tip of the coracoid process, the other external, from just behind the acromion, are carried down to the extremities of the first incision. A square flap is thus formed, which, being dissected up the articulation, is laid open. The capsular ligament is cut under the head of the hume- rus, which, on the arm being raised, is at once luxated. The operator thus obtains room to tie the axillary artery high up; which done, he detaches the arm from the trunk. Sur- geons, at the present day, do not tie the artery before terminating the operation ; they prefer stopping the circulation by causing the lower flap to be compressed by the hands of an assistant. The loss of blood is thus pre- vented fully as well, while the dismember- ment is more prompt. Dupuytren's plan differs from that of Lafaye in the manner of forming the deltoid flap.