2 EAR, AND HEARING, DISEASES OF. If the eye is prone to participate in the va- rious diseases of the skin, the ear is equally obnoxious to them. If the conjunctiva, the mucous membrane of the eye, be continuous by the derivative part of the lacrymal appa- ratus, with the mucous membrane of the nose, and by that with the respiratory and digestive mucous membranes ; the mucous membrane of the ear also, that lining the tympanum and covering the peripheral surface of the laby- rinth, is continuous through the Eustachian tube with the mucous membrane of the nose and throat, and thence with the respiratory and digestive mucous membranes. If the nerves of the eye have communications with the great sympathetic, so also have the nerves of the ear. And if, by the communication be- tween the nerves of the eye and the sympa- thetic, as also by the continuity of mucous sur- face, a connexion is established between the abdominal viscera and the eye, capable of explaining many points in the pathology of the latter1 ; the same holds good in the case of the ear. If a close reciprocal influence is established2 between the eye and the brain, with its mem- branes, by means of the nerves which enter the orbit, by the fibrous sheath of the optic nerve and the periorbita, a similar influence must be established between the brain and the ear, for nerves pass from the former into and close by the latter ; the dura mater lines the internal auditory meatus, as well as covers the surface of the petrous bone ; moreover, it is connected with the labyrinthic cavity through the aqueducts. The ophthalmic artery is a branch of the internal carotid : the internal auditive artery is a branch of the basilar. The ophthalmic vein throws its blood into the ca- vernous sinus ; the internal auditive artery is accompanied by a corresponding vein, which carries back blood from the labyrinth and empties it into the superior petrosal sinus. If, in consequence of the origin and termination of its blood-vessels, the eye must participate in determinations of blood to the head3; the same thing, for the same reasons, must take place in the ear. Both eyes very frequently suffer together : one ear can scarcely become affected alone ; and what is remarkable, local treatment applied to one has sometimes been found to exert its beneficial influence equally on both4. Lastly, if constitution and constitutional affections exert a modifying influence over the diseases of the eye, it is obvious they must do so over those of the ear also. The analogy between the diseases of the eye and ear might be longer dwelt on, but 1 See Lawrence, Treatise on the Diseases of the Eye. London, 1833, p. 61. 3 Lawrence, ut supra. 3 Lawrence, ut supra. 4 I am aware that a contrary opinion prevails. The law of symmetry of lesion does not, it is said, hold so generally, in regard to the two cars as to the two eyes, —a statement with which my experience does not agree. what has been said is sufficient to draw atten- tion to it for the present, and to prove that there is nothing peculiar in the diseases of the ear, except in so far as they are rendered so by the peculiarity of the structure and func- tion of the organ ; and this is the case more or less with all organs, and is what requires a difference in the details of treatment. The present article is divided into two parts, the first comprehending, The Acces- sory Organs of the Apparatus of Hear- ing ; and the second, The Fundamental Organ of Hearing. As to the plan of treating the subject, the most advantageous which suggests itself, con- sidering the complicated structure of the ear, is to preface the account of the nature and treatment of the diseases of each division or subdivision of the organ, with a sketch of its anatomy and physiology, and with particular directions for the exploration of its morbid states. In regard to the exploration of the ear, there are some necessary general considera- tions into which it is proper at once to enter. General remarks on the exploration of the ear.—Of all the parts of the ear, the auricle, the auditory passage, the membrana tympani, together with the handle of the malleus, and the exterior of the mastoid process, are alone open to ocular inspection. The cavity of the tympanum and the Eustachian tube are acces- sible only to a less direct and less satisfactory mode of examination. As it is essential to good hearing, for the atmospherical air to have free ingress to and egress from the cavity of the tympanum through the Eustachian tube, attention is first directed to ascertain whether or not this con- dition exists in its full integrity ; and the ex- ploration is made on the principle now gene- rally adopted in the diagnosis of the diseases of the chest; viz. to hear when it is impossi- ble to see or touch. “ If the stethoscope, furnished with its stopper,” says Laennec, “ be applied over the base of the mastoid process, whilst the person subjected to the experiment breathes rather forcibly through the nostril of the same side, the other nostril being kept closed, a blowing sound is distinctly heard, which indicates the entrance of air into the mastoid cells. “ If there be any mucus in the Eustachian tube, or in the cavity of the tympanum, a gur- gling sound very like the mucous rhonchus is heard, and we can easily distinguish whether it is in the Eustachian tube, in the tympanic cavity, or in the mastoid cells. This pheno- menon, which is not always accompanied by dulness of hearing, is frequently observed in persons labouring under even a very slight coryza. If the mucus obstruct the Eustachian tube completely, no sound is heard, until, by the efforts above indicated, the tube is again rendered free. “ Strong inspiration through the nose also