AMPUTATION. 136 the surgeon is readv to begin his incisions : he should make it the last thing, so that the moment he has ascertained the instrument to be well fixed, and has confided it to the care of the assistant, he may begin the operation. To cause the blood to stagnate in the limb, as some surgeons do, by applying the tourni- quet before they are ready to operate, can be of no use, but, on the contrary, must be in- jurious. Prior to the invention of this instrument, the single strap-belt for girding the limb, known, it appears, to Archigenes, and em- ployed by Avicenna, Pare, and the old sur- geons, had undergone some improvements of which the tourniquet may be considered the completion. The French surgeons began their altera- tions by placing a pad under the belt, in the situation of the artery. To this, which was a decided improvement, Morel added two pieces of stick, which being passed under the belt, each on the opposite side of the limb, served to twist and tighten it. This addi- tion, for the better constricting of the limb, he appears to have made during the siege of Besanpon. Then came Petit’s tourniquet, of which the one now in use is an improved modification. Although by the present tourniquet the greatest pressure is made on the seat of the vessel, and on the opposite side of the limb ; yet the constriction exercised all around it may interfere somewhat with the retraction of the muscles, and is certainly sufficient to im- pede the venous circulation, as may be seen after its application by the turgescence of the veins below it. This is an inconvenience not counterbalanced by the effect of the instru- ment in benumbing the limb, which Petit justly ascribed to it, but which, as we have stated, can be produced as well by the assist- ant who has to draw up the skin. It is also necessary to employ more force with the tourniquet than when pressure is made with the fingers; because the latter can cover pre- cisely the region of the artery without ex- tending beyond it, which the instrument can- not do. It is also less advantageous than direct pressure, because it cannot, like the hand, be applied always at the upper part of the limb, out of the way of the operator. Notwithstanding these disadvantages, which attach more or less to all instruments of the kind, the tourniquet answers the purpose suf- ficiently well to be employed with safety. The compressor which Dupuytren has sometimes used for the cure of aneurism, and which consists of a semicircular piece of strong steel, sufficiently large to encircle the limb, with a pad at one end, and a handle moving a second pad at the other, would serve very well to compress an artery during amputation. It has the advantage of limiting the pressure to the opposite sides of the limb correspond- ing to the pads, but is somewhat objectionable, from being heavy. In case such an instru- ment as this, or the tourniquet could not be procured, the garrot proposed by Morel would be found a tolerably good substitute for them. Knowing the principles on which the cir- culation of the limb ought to be regulated for amputation, the surgeon will generally be able to devise means for carrying them into effect under any circumstances. But whenever he has a good assistant, and the limb is supplied by the usual main artery easily felt and com- pressed on a solid resting-place, and he can therefore choose between direct, or (as it may be called) intelligent pressure exercised with the hand, and the blind compression made with an instrument, he will do well to prefer the former. GENERAL METHODS OF AMPUTATING. We shall now describe the plans of ampu- tating which may be called General Methods. They are three in number, and are usually termed the Circular Method, the Oblique or Oval Method, and the Flap Amputation. Circular method of amputating.—As its name indicates, this method consists in the division of the soft parts by a circular incision ; that is, an incision made by carrying the knife once or several times completely round the limb, so as to cut them all through, from the skin to the bone. This division may be made by one, two, three, or more sweeps, or complete circular strokes of the knife. A good amputation is that which is fol- lowed by a proper stump; and the knife ought to be applied a sufficient number of times to secure this result. In dissecting what is considered a good stump, some years after amputation, we find the skin forming its surface united by its deep side to dense cellular tissue, in which are the ends of the muscles, fascia, nerves, and re- mains of vessels, all blended in one common cicatrix, in which the bone is sunk and im- bedded. This cicatrix, which is of very firm structure, constitutes a proper cushion for sustaining whatever shock or friction the stump may be exposed to ; and, being elastic, and left projecting beyond the bone, which it protects from all pressure, is admirably adapted to the purpose. The end of such a stump, at least, for some- time after cicatrization, is decidedly concave, and represents a hollow cone, the sunk apex of which is formed by the bone, and the pro- jecting base by the integuments. The depth of this cone should be such, that all the weight the stump may have to bear shall press on the soft parts only, and not on the end of the bone. This depth may, therefore, vary a little according to the volume and structure of the limb, and the uses required of the stump. The slightest reference to the anatomy of the limbs shows that a good stump, of this shape, can only be secured by dividing cer- tain layers, more or less definite, in which the soft parts present themselves in the limbs, so