CANCER. 682 corpora cavernosa; this is, besides, slow in passing into the ulcerated stage, sometimes producing a sensation of weight, slight aching pain, and difficulty in micturition, for a number of months, or even years, before this change occurs. The progress of the warty excrescence is usually more rapid. The discharge from the ulcerated surface is abundant, and the cau- liflower fungating masses produced sometimes reach a large size, forming with the swollen glans and prepuce a mass as big as the clenched hand. According to M. Buret, when the disease is seated in the skin, prepuce, or cel- lular tissue of the penis, the inguinal glands are first engorged ; on the contrary, the pelvic suffer earliest, when the more deeply seated parts are affected. The constitutional sym- ptoms are those characteristic of cancer. In rare cases the disease becomes stationary in the penis, and the patient perishes from the active progress of consecutive cancers in the glands and viscera. Several practical surgeons, among others Hey, Boyer, Roux, Travers, and Begin, co- incide in remarking on the frequency of phy- mosis, either congenital or acquired, in indi- viduals labouring under cancer of the penis. The confinement of the smegma preputii, and of drops of urine thus induced, is supposed to be the cause of the disease ; whether the ex- planation be correct or not, the fact itself is of much practical importance, and almost a suffi- cient reason for circumcising individuals thus formed or affected. Cancer, however, occurs in subjects differently conformed ; we remem- ber to have observed it in a person whose glans had been uncovered from childhood, and three out of twelve of the patients treated by Hey were free from phymosis ; the disease is most common in adults, and more especially in subjects of rather advanced age1. M. Buret has twice observed a peculiar in- durated state of the lateral anterior half of the penis; the tissue thus affected is dense, firm, indolent, and diminished in size, and the organ becomes curved in that direction during erection. This condition is perfectly distinct, he conceives, from scirrhous hardening, but he does not state the means of distinguishing them. Removal of the disease affords the only chance of saving a patient affected with can- cer of the penis, and few surgeons admit that mere excision of the actually cancerous part is sufficient. Mr. Travers “ holds it to be quite useless to remove the prepuce alone in any case of malignant sore or excrescence, however the glans may be free from ulcera- 1 Like other organs, the penis is said to become the scat of cancer occasionally, through the immediate action of common irritation, but when this is the case the subject must be strongly predisposed to the disease : such, doubtless, was the constitutional state of the unfortunate “ gentilhomme dont le prepuce avait ete morcele par an cadcnas d’or impose par la jalousie d’une Italienne, ct dont la verge, devenue par suite cancereusc, fut amputee par Dupuvtren.” See Legros in L’Experience, No. 58. Aoiit, 1838. tion ; and M. Begin expresses himself in a similar strain. M. Lisfranc, however, pro- fesses different notions : having dissected pe- nises, removed as extensively carcinomatous, in which he ascertained that the disease was only superficial, and did not involve the cor- pora cavernosa, and further reflecting on the power of the albugineous tissues to resist can- cerous infiltration, this surgeon decided upon trying whether amputation of the organ (the effects of which on the morale of the sufferer he describes in piteous but probably not ex- aggerated terms) might not be safely given up for excision of the affected parts. Here wre have, to a certain extent, a revival of prin- ciples taught by Callisen'. In order to as- certain the depth of the disease with certainty, M. Lisfranc recommends the diseased mass to be cautiously divided through the centre down to the fibrous sheath ; if this be healthy the disease may be excised; if not, amputation must at once be performed. To this mode of procedure it may be objected that, although the fibrous tissue appears healthy, it may really contain germina of the disease ; that the operation is longer, and the incision use- less, if amputation be eventually required. The real value of the first objection—though, from what we have already seen, specious even in this case—is to be decided by experience ; as to the others, there arc few patients who would not willingly submit to a little addi- tional pain for the chance of retaining the implicated organ. But under all modes of operation the prognosis is unfavourable. Mr. Travers assures us that “ if the penis be am- putated at some distance beyond the hardened part, and before the disease has existed long, the patient may escape a return of it; but this is a rare instance of good fortune. Slight symptomatic enlargement of the glands in the groin should not be accounted a bar to the operation, and, on the other hand, the absence of all glandular affection is no security against its return and fatal termination in three months.” Some forms of the disease are, however, according to the same surgeon, more favourable for operation than others; the “ irritable pimple,” either of the glans or pre- puce, breaking into hard-based, spreading, and fungating ulcer, is more likely to be followed by reproduction than the form commencing as a warty excrescence. Amputation practised immediately behind, or even at a certain distance from the glans, does not render the organ altogether unfit for the performance of its functions. In evidence of this M. Buret quotes Scultetus : in a case of carcinoma treated by this surgeon, “ max- ima penis portionc, praesentibus magistris J. Pasbooin et M. Klonkhuysen, exsecta, vul- nus consolidation nec urinandi nec seminandi ullam fecit remoram, et diffracta hasta ipsam ausus est (aeger) aggredi Helenam.” Repro- duction of the disease may either occur in the stump, in the inguinal glands, or in internal 1 Syst. Cliir. Hod. p. 420. 1800. 5