187 FISTULA. wards, and opening near the margin of the anus, would be liable to be confounded with fistula of the anus. The error will be avoided by observing the direction which the probe takes, and the nature of the excretions voided by the orifice. If they are furnished from the bladder or urethra, the smell is strongly and offensively urinous, the track of the fistula is callous, and there is more or less difficulty always in making water, which, during the effort of expulsion, is seen to moisten the fistulous orifice. In the rectal fistula, the ex- cretion is brownish, or yellow, and has the smell of faecal matter. The mode of examining a fistulous track by means of a probe requires some delicacy and care. The examination ought to be made in different postures ; the patient lying on his back, on his side, seated with the thighs flexed on the trunk, or erect, with the head bent on the chest, and the buttocks promi- nent. The external orifice is readily per- ceived by its redness, elevation, or humidity, or it may be sought for, if hidden in a plait of the skin, by pressing the matter out of it. A flexible probe is then introduced with the right hand, and the track is followed gently and without effort. The internal orifice is to be sought for, first, near the lower end of the rectum, where it will be found, if not always, at least commonly. It is sometimes hut a very little distance from the skin, and very seldom beyond the straight, or sphincter portion of the gut. The point of the probe, when it has passed through the whole track, impinges on the finger of the left hand, which is placed in the rectum to receive it. If there should happen to be more than one, the probe is introduced in the same way into each of them successively. These canals being in general but little sensitive, the ex- ploration should be renewed until the sur- geon is fully satisfied as to the number of the fistulous routes, their direction, the extent of alteration in parts, and the point of commu- nication with the intestine. This species of catheterism requires that he should be pro- vided with flexible probes of various lengths and sizes, to meet the circumstances of dif- ferent cases, the tracts being sometimes straight, sometimes angular, and sometimes tortuous. Even these may be found insuffi- cient, and it may become necessary to have recourse to the injection of milk, or other coloured fluid, to determine whether a com- munication exists with the rectum or not. If the fluid injected by the rectum, or by the orifice of the fistula, is observed to return by the fistula, or by the anus respectively, all doubt on this point is at an end. If, after repeated explorations, the internal orifice of the fistula is not discovered, it still must not be taken for granted that no inter- nal opening exists, as additional care in the search will often lead to its discovery. If the head of the probe can be felt through the attenuated membrane of the intestine, and the disease has existed for some months, there can be no doubt felt of the propriety of treating it as if the aperture existed. But, on the other hand, if none of the tracks approach the wall of the intestine, the sur- geon will have to content himself with a free opening, without interesting the walls of the intestine ; and if by this means a free exit is secured for the matter, granulations will soon sprout from the walls of the cavity, and cica- trization will follow. In the interval of the explorations, espe- cially where there is unusual sensitiveness of the fistulous tracks, or w'here the parts in- volved have become much indurated, emol- lient enemas by the gut, and injections by the anormal channels, warm-baths and fomenta- tions, w'ill tend much to facilitate success. Operation, however, is not indicated in every case of fistula in the anus, and in some it is positively contra-indicated. In others, where it will be proper at a later period to have recourse to it, the actual condition of the patient may be such as to render it neces- sary to temporize. It would be highly impru- dent to operate while the patient was labour- ing under a chronic affection of some im- portant organ, such as the liver, bladder, prostate gland, vagina, or alimentary canal ; as under such circumstances, the concomitant disease would be more likely to be aggra- vated than the fistula to be cured. Again, in caries of a bone of the pelvis, it is obvious that interference by an operator would be improper, as the fistula in such a case is but of secondary importance, and would be very likely to heal of itself, if the caries under the influence of constitutional treatment should be arrested. In an incurable disease of the liver, in phthisis, and in fistulous ulceration from the progress of cancer of the rectum, operation would be so much worse than use- less, that the march of the more serious dis- ease would be at once accelerated by such a proceeding. Great circumspection should be used in this respect, whenever the secretion of another organ happens to be made up for by this accidental drain, or whenever any other painful affection has abated at the same time that the fistula became established. In general, wdierever a disease simply concomi- tant cannot be cured at the same time with the fistula, the operation should be postponed until the disease yields to appropriate treat- ment. or until the constitution is so modified by the formation of another emunctory, in anticipation of the cicatrization of the fistula, that no apprehension is to be entertained from the suppression of drain which had, in some degree, become habitual. Operation.—The old surgeons had a very extensive and varied arsenal to bring to beat- in this affection, including ointments, caustics, ligatures, compression, and knives of various kinds, cold or heated to redness. At a later period, when surgeons had in some degree conquered their fear of haemorrhage, excision was practised, under the idea that it was necessary to cut away the tissues that had