BLOOD-LETTING. 495 Where there is an irregular distribution of the blood, an undue quantity being sent to a par- ticular part, there is a corresponding diminu- tion of the blood in some other parts of the body, and it is in such cases the abstraction of blood is always useless or injurious. We have examples of these irregular dis- tributions of the head and chest. Persons suffering from bilious and aguish headachs, as they are called, frequently have a flushed countenance, and an increased action of some of the branches of the external carotid artery ; but they are not accompanied by any of those changes in the arterial or cardiac pulse which indicate the use of blood-letting, and are marked by symptoms showing a diminution of blood in some other parts of the body, parti- cularly in the limbs, by a painful sense of coldness in the feet. Persons who have often suffered from bili- ous headachs, accompanied with a flushed face, and for which blood-letting has been ineffec- tually tried, may have feelings of uneasiness in the head of a different character, and of that description wherein bleeding is highly beneficial. I have known several serious errors committed from not being aware of this cir- cumstance, and treating a headach from con- gestion of blood like an ordinary sympathetic headach. Neglect of Blood-letting.—We have daily opportunities of noticing the changes of struc- ture which take place in every organ of the body, in consequence of inflammations being allowed to advance, which, had they been detected early and treated by depletion, might have, in all probability, been subdued, and any permanent change of structure com- pletely prevented. There are, no doubt, many examples of in- flammatory diseases, which have been com- pletely relieved without blood-letting, some of them, when left to nature, running through a particular course, and leaving the affected organ unchanged ; and there are others which are checked by the exhibition of those internal remedies which subdue the action of the vas- cular system. But there are many affections where the propriety of blood-letting has been indicated; and where, in consequence of its not being employed, the foundation has been laid of some substantial structural disease. I am indeed convinced, that in almost all those diseases which are, at their commencement, attended by the disturbed action of the vas- cular system, a much quicker and more com- plete abatement of the symptoms would result from venesection, pursued even to a very moderate extent, and the whole system suffer a much less subsequent debility, than by the free use of purgatives and diaphoretics, and a long continued perseverance in an antiphlo- gistic treatment. Some peculiar effects of Blood - letting. — There is a curious effect of bleeding which was first remarked to me, in the following in- stance, by Professor Russell of Edinburgh :— A lady of a plethoric habit was very liable to sudden and severe congestions of blood in different parts of the body, most frequently in the lungs : the abstraction of a quantity of blood was indispensable. The moment a vein was opened she not only began to experience relief, but felt an instantaneous exhilaration of spirits, like one intoxicated. Mr. Russell repeatedly witnessed this very singular effect in the patient, and a medical friend of his witnessed an effect somewhat similar in ano- ther person. Bleeding, too, not only increases the action of the bowels, but it promotes the mercurial action. Dr. Fordyce used to say that in some cases of constipated bowels, they ought to be opened with a lancet. The action of many other substances on the economy may be pro- moted in the same manner. The remarkable effect of abstracting blood from domestic animals under different circum- stances and for different purposes, is worthy of remark here. Horses who get into too high condition, as it is called, in which state a heaviness and want of activity supervene, if bled, acquire fresh vigour ; and an acute observer informed me that he often found, if a pointer was bled on the morning of the day previous to hunting, the fatigue he could endure was infinitely greater than another dog in the same condition who had not lost blood. OPERATIONS. Arteriotomy (from dprufa, an artery, and Tspv<i), to cut), or blood-letting from an artery, is an operation of high antiquity. Celsus makes mention of it, and Galen complains that his contemporaries neglected it too much. Prosper Albinus represents it as in frequent use amongst the Egyptians. In the present day, it is employed almost solely on the tem- poral artery, or its branches, the auricular and frontal, as from their superficial situation on the external surface of the cranium, peculiar facility is afforded after the operation for arresting the flow of blood by compression. In a preceding part of this article, it will have been however remarked, that in cases where there is great difficulty of obtaining a flow of blood by other means, this operation might be extended to other arteries when favourably situated for compression against bone, such as the dorsal artery of the foot, and of the hand the lower part of the radial ; this last vessel, it is there stated, has been opened under a necessity of this kind. The operation may be performed with a bistoury, a straight pointed, or a com- mon lancet. The surgeon being provided with a compress and roller, shaves off the hair of the temple, when the artery and its branches may not only be felt, but the pulsa- tions may be distinctly seen. When this is not the case, its situation and course are rea- dily explored by the index finger. If the branches be large, it will be unnecessary to perform the operation on the trunk itself, when otherwise, the trunk of the vessel should be opened.