FRACTURE. 843 have left the repair almost wholly to nature. This practice was found to lead to somewhat more deformity than the preceding. It is, however, apparent, that when nice reunion is most important, then the recumbent posture is a very desirable part of the treatment. Paralysis of the arm often occurs, from weighty bodies falling on the shoulder, causing direct injury or subsequent disorganization of the nerves. A case is related by Mr. Earle of commi- nuted fracture of the clavicle, where the axil- lary plexus was crushed, and paralysis, with a fearful susceptibility to change of tempera- ture in the limb, was occasioned. The like effects are connected occasionally with lux- ations of the humerus. One of the twenty-two fractures in the fore- going table was peculiar, with respect to the displacement which attended it; for the bone being divided a little external to the sternal end or head, the inner broken surface pre- sented upwards, and thus a very deformed union resulted. It is desirable to be aware that such a circumstance may occur, although it does not seem certainly under the control of posture or bandages. FRACTURES OF THE SCAPULA. Although a thin and expanded bone, the scapula, from its site and mobility, is rarely subject to fracture; and, with the exception of one or two of its prominent points, it may almost be said never to be broken, unless from overwhelming crushes. Considering the extent of the bone, its constant employment, and its general tenuity, there is something remarkable in its comparative immunity from injuries. Its location and its happy adapta- tions are, probably, the chief causes of its safetyl * * * 5. The more common seats of fracture are, first, the acromion process; secondly, the infe- rior angle ; thirdly, the body of the bone ; and, fourthly, the coracoid process. The ar- ticular portion is greatly protected by large surrounding muscles, the projections of the head of the humerus externally, and the line of the clavicle in front; so that fractures of this and the central part of the bone require such concentrated violence to produce them, that the concomitant injuries to the softer parts, or even to the thoracic viscera, form the chief cause of alarm. The acromion process is the part of the sca- pula most frequently broken; it generally gives way from a direct blow, as a fall upon the part. It may occur in any part of its length, from its base to its apex, but gene- rally it breaks in a transverse direction, about half an inch from its extremity. The weight 1 Mr. Lonsdale sets down 18 cases of fracture of tlie scapula in 1901 of fractures generally; t. e. 8 of the body, 8 of the acromion, and 2 of the cervix. Of all these there were but 5 taken into the house, namely, 5 of the fractures of the body. It will be seen that the two cases of fracture of the cervix scapulas are, at least, doubtful. of the arm, and the muscular contraction of the deltoid combine to lower the fractured portion, while the scapula is raised and drawn backwards by the actions of the trapezius and levator muscles. The shoulder becomes less round, and the head of the humerus sinks as far as its liga- ment will allow it, the power of the deltoid being diminished by the loss of its attach- ment. A depression will also be discovered on tracing the acromion from the spine towards its junction with the clavicle ; and the space between the sternal end of the clavicle, and the extremity of the injured shoulder, com- pared with the sound side, will be found di- minished. On pressing up the head of the humerus, and rotating the shaft with one hand applied over the acromion, a crepitus will be per- ceived, which distinguishes the case from one of dislocation ; elevating the humerus also restores the usual round appearance of the shoulder, but the deformity will immediately recur on withdrawing the support. The management of this accident requires the arm to be so raised, that the head of the humerus may force up the broken process; an assistant, at the same time, pushing the sca- pula in an opposite direction, or downward and forwards, while a roller is applied round the arm. Sir A. Cooper recommends the elbow to be firmly suspended by the side, and inclined a little backwards ; and to be fixed in that position by a roller, with a considerable cushion between it and the side, in order to relax the deltoid muscle. Ligamentous union is mostly the result of the practice hitherto pursued, from the diffi- culty of keeping the parts together. The objects to be fulfilled, are, first, to press the loose fragment upwards ; secondly, to relax the deltoid, which displaces it; and thirdly, to exert some pressure on the point of the acromion, by which the coaptation may be made close. It would appear both easy and desirable to pursue these objects more strictly than we are usually recommended to do ; but, at the same time, the powers of the arm not being materially affected by the want of bony union, in most cases both the patient and the surgeon may naturally be less anxious about the best result. A separation of more or less of the inferior angle of the scapula is not very uncommon, for the reason, that the part is little able to elude direct blows. There is not often much attendant displacement, because a moderate violence may induce the fracture. If motion be communicated to the body, for the purpose of diagnosis, the separated angle is more or less unaffected by that motion, and vice versa, when the angle is moved. The fragment, if small, may be drawn forward by the serratus major anticus ; if larger, the at- tachments of the teres major and latissimus dorsi draw it still more forward and upward.