FRACTURE. 347 placed from the cavity of the joint, and lay near the venter of the scapula. Mr. Green- wood also informs me, that he distinctly un- derstood Sir A. Cooper to say, that this ob- servation materially altered his opinion con- cerning' the cases usually considered as frac- tures of the cervix scapulae. This I find was decidedly the same patient, whose case is related in the new edition of Sir Astley’s work (p. 41). This topic will be resumed with the consideration of luxations of the SHOULDER. FRACTURES OF THE HUMERUS. These injuries are proportionately of less frequent occurrence than our introductory tables indicate. Mr. Lonsdale gives more complete data for stating them at of all fractures. Childhood and old age seem par- ticularly liable to them. The lower end of the humerus is broken generally by direct violence, but the rest of the bone is about equally subject to the effects of counter-stroke and direct blows. Examples of fracture of the humerus by muscular exertion, though rare, are still un- doubted. It is not, however, the mere strain of muscle that breaks the bone, but a violent impulse with the whole mass of the arm, and, perhaps, an additional weight in the hand. A labourer, set. 36, occasionally employed as a coal-whipper, was casually tempted to throw up a cricket-ball violently, and to a great dis- tance. He felt, he said, as if he “ had thrown his arm away.” He was quite sober, and did not fall or receive any blow; but some want of skill to regulate the effort may however be presumed. The humerus was broken three inches above the elbow. His health and ske- leton indicated no predisposition to fracture, but the proportionate development of the muscles is not described *. A very tall, powerful man, set. 26, sat oppo- site another, each one resting an elbow on a table, and pressing palm against palm to try which was the stronger; after straining for some time, the first felt a sudden snap, ‘ like the report of a gun,’ and could hardly believe, but that some one had given him a blow. His humerus was broken, about three inches above the condyles. It united in the usual way. Mr. Lonsdale describes this case, and refers to another just like it. We may compare the injury in these cases to breaking a stick in its middle, by force applied with one hand at each end. The same writer relates the case of a man, ast. 26, who broke his hu- merus at the same part, by striking another in the face with his fist. The following instance of partial fracture, or bending of the humerus, is probably more instructive than a more strongly marked case. A weakly child, about nine years of age, while confined with a sore leg, fell from his cot; the consequence of which was pain, swelling, and extreme tenderness of the left elbow. Leeches 1 Mr. Seaton, Lond. Med. Gaz. Aug. 1835. and cold reduced these symptoms in the course of a week, and not until after this, could any sign of fracture be distinguished. Now, however, the humerus appeared to yield slightly at its middle. Splints were applied for three weeks, and on removing them, the humerus was distinctly felt (in the slender arm) to be enlarged at its centre, as by re- pairing callus2. Such cases are not very un- common in infancy; they claim the gentlest investigation, and are easily treated. So far from blaming the late discovery of the acci- dent, my conclusion is, that even the most watchful and tender surgeon might not de- tect anything before the reparative thickening. Any portion of the humerus may be frac- tured ; the shaft, the condyles, or the surgical or anatomical neck. The surgical neck is a descriptive appellation, generally meant to include the whole space between the head of the bone, and the insertions of the pectoralis major, latissimus dorsi, and teres major mus- cles ; the neck, anatomically considered, being merely the narrow line around the articular surface, between it and the tuberosities. Mr. Lonsdale gives 89 cases of fracture of the shaft of the humerus as proportionate to 13 of the neck, and 16 of the condyles. Fractures of the humerus for the most part take place transversely, and rarely with much obliquity through the shaft; and they occur very much oftener as simple than as open fractures. The displacement of parts will be various, according to the situation of the fracture ; thus there is but little displacement in transverse fractures, which occur below the insertion of the deltoid muscle; the anterior and posterior muscles preserving the broken surfaces almost in apposition ; whilst, in fractures of the neck of the humerus, whether transverse or ob- lique, the lower portion is always drawn in- ward and upward. Oblique fractures are most usually, if not always attended with displace- ment, the resistance to the long muscles being absent, or much diminished in this species of fracture, and consequently there is a very characteristic shortening of limb. The symptoms of these fractures are gene- rally most distinct. The shortened condition, or angular deformity of the limb, a very evi- dent crepitus produced on passing the frac- tured surfaces across each other, pain and loss of power, but great mobility, combined with the history, make the nature of the case ma- nifest at a glance ; yet we shall find that there are exceptions to this statement. A crepitus may sometimes be difficult to obtain, and a kind of crackling, sometimes resulting from inflammation of the joint, may be deceptive. Fractures of the neck of the humerus may occur, that, in some respects, put on the ordinary appearances of dislocation. To distinguish such cases, close observa- tions will be necessary; but attention will 2 Mr. Raleigh, in the India Med. Journal, May, 1837.