235 ANEURISM. 1 Lancet, 1836. first published in the American Journal of the Medical Sciences for 1837. The patient, a man forty-two years of age, had a large pulsating tumour in the neck which extended upwards from within the thorax, and obliquely outwards behind the sternal ex- tremity of the sterno-cleido-mastoid muscle. The tumour did not perceptibly diminish when pressure was made on the right carotid artery, but the pulse at the wrist of the right arm became fuller and stronger. When pressure was made on the right subclavian the impulse of the tumour was increased, as also the pulsation of the temporal and facial arteries of the right side. He had been chiefly confined to bed during the preceding nine months, labouring under pain in the cardiac region, difficulty of breathing, which was increased to a painful degree by walking, —rheumatism of the right shoulders and muscles of the neck, and hemicrania. Concluding the tumour to be an aneurism of the innominata and right carotid, on the 8th of November, 1832, Dr. Morrison placed “ a flat silk ligature on the carotid artery ” In the afternoon, the patient complained of being much distressed “ by hollow sounds in the right side of his head, and the pulsation in the tu- mour was so violent that they could be ob- served at some distance from the bed.” The febrile symptoms were alleviated by repeated blood-lettings ; and on the ninth day the tu- mour, which had become tender to the touch, began to pulsate more feebly, to become harder, and to diminish in size. The liga- ture came away on the thirty-first day, after which period he progressively recovered, and returned to his usual habits, which were those of very hard labour. About nineteen months afterwards he com- plained of an oppression at the chest, with a slight cough, and in a month he died. On examination after death «the right sub- clavian artery was traced to its origin, at which place it was partially dilated. The arteria innominata was double its ordinary size, and studded with spiculae of ossific matter. The right carotid artery, from its origin to the point where the ligature had been applied, was dilated into a sac, which was plugged up with a dense fibrinous deposit.” M. Laugier, an eminent French surgeon, operated upon the fifth case of aneurism of the innominata, in the year 1828 K The neck presented a pulsating tumour the 'size of a large hen-egg. It extended about two inches above the right clavicle, whose sternal extre- mity it had dislocated and pressed against the trachea, which was pushed to the left side. Outwards, it reached to near the middle of the right clavicle, and downwards about two inches from the top of the sternum. These symptoms might have led to a belief that the subclavian and right carotid arteries were alone affected; but there was great reason to suppose that the innominata, and perhaps even the arch of the aorta itself, par- 1 Lancet, 1828. ticipated in the disease. The inclination of the trachea to the left side, the dull sound on the first and second ribs, where no tumour was perceptible; the difficulty of breathing; the peculiar resonance of the voice ; the im- possibility of feeling the termination of the tumour below the clavicle, joined to the con- sideration of the frequency of co-existent aneurisms of the innominata and aorta, were the principal sources from whence M. L. formed that diagnosis. M. Laugier determined on taking up the right subclavian artery soon after it passes be- neath the clavicle, and which he tied with a single silk ligature. No visible change oc- curred in the tumour immediately after the ligature was tightened, but on the following day it was evidently smaller, its pulsations were weaker, and the radial artery of the right side did not beat. The patient continued relieved, breathing better, and swallowing with less difficulty, until the seventh day after the operation, when a slight haemorrhage took place of arterial blood from the wound. The bleeding returned several times, but ceased after the tenth day. On the fifteenth day, the patient perceived that the trachea was resuming its natural position, but he com- plained of pain in the shoulder and back, and was only able to sit with his body bent for- wards, the pulse in the right wrist having then become sensible to the touch. Sometime afterwards, the tumour began to beat more strongly than before the operation, the cough and difficulty of breathing increased, and he died one month after the operation, the liga- ture still remaining in the wound. On examination after death there was found a large aneurismal tumour of the arteria inno- minata, and the aorta was dilated. The sac was nearly filled with firm dense laminae of fibrine; the lower part of the tumour con- taining more recently-formed coagula. The right carotid artery was completely oblitera- ted from its origin to two-thirds of its extent, and presented several “ singular valvular-like pseudo-membranes.” The right subclavian artery was quite pervious to within an inch of where the ligature had been applied. The ligature had divided the artery, but was re- tained in the wound by a coagulum which had formed in its noose in consequence of the haemorrhage. Besides, close to the capillary mouth of the artery there was a collateral branch of considerable size, which may have been the cause of the haemorrhage, by pre- venting the formation of a sufficient internal coagulum. The third and fourth dorsal ver- tebrae were carious, and formed the parietes of the lower and back part of the aneurismal sac. Exactly in this situation the trachea was diseased, its inner membrane being thickened, discoloured, and its follicles very prominent. The oesophagus was here ulcerated, and com- municated with the diseased vertebrae. The next, and sixth case, was that treated by Mr. Fearn of Derby', and is one of much