%3i ANEURISM. lanthropist. For the particulars of the case I take the liberty of referring you to the ac- companying paper, and I am happy to pre- sent this account of the first operation per- formed in America for the cure of aneurism of the innominata, to the discoverer and first successful performer of it in Europe. With sentiments of respect, I remain, Sir, Your obedient servant, Valentine Mott. New York, Feb. 15, 1830. A farmer, sixty-one years of age, applied to Dr. Mott with a pulsating tumour about the size of a pigeon’s egg, which extended some distance under the sternal and clavicular por- tions of the right sterno-mastoideus muscle, and as low down as the second rib. About three years before, whilst occupied in remov- ing a building and compelled to lift heavy weights, he was attacked with pain in the upper and back part of the neck. The pain ex- tended to the right shoulder and arm, and having continued during some weeks, then partially subsided, his voice at that time be- coming hoarse. While shaving himself, about eighteen months afterwards, he discovered a small swelling at the upper part of the sternum, in which he felt a throbbing. The tumour having now become very sen- sible to the touch, and respiration being im- peded by the slightest pressure, its pulsations being synchronous with those of the heart, the tumour was considered as decidedly aneuris- mal. Dr. Mott advised him to avoid all exer- tion, to be occasionally bled, and to confine himself principally to vegetable diet. In four months the tumour above the sternum had much increased, the “ bellows’ sound” was dis- tinctly heard, the thoracic viscera were healthy, and the respiratory murmur distinct through- out. By speaking, walking, or coughing, his respiration was very much impeded, and almost entirely suspended by the least pres- sure upon the tumour. The action of the right carotid was much more feeble than that of the left, and its branches did not pulsate. The right subclavian artery beat naturally, whilst the axillary and brachial vessels could scarcely be felt. No pulse could be felt at the wrist of the right arm. Reflecting on this case, Dr. Mott was per- suaded that the aneurism was situated in the arteria innominata, involving also the subcla- vian and root of the carotid arteries, and he considered it as a proper case for placing a ligature on one of the branches of the inno- minata. From the evident interruption of the circulation in the right arm, and the appa- rent efforts of Nature to effect a spontaneous cure, Dr. Mott determined first to tie the carotid, and afterwards to secure the subcla- vian artery, should it be required. The carotid artery was secured in the usual manner, and on the following day the pulsation and size of the tumour were evidently dimi- nished, and the breathing became more free. J1 His voice improved gradually, and his cough and expectoration diminished. The ligature came away on the twenty-sixth day after the operation, the tumour above the sternum and pulsation having entirely disappeared. The wound soon healed, but a very considerable weakness of the arm remained, with slight oedema, and there was no pulse in the right radial artery. His breathing had become easy, the cough and expectoration much di- minished, and he could sleep in positions which he had been unable to take for many months. After the return of Moses Gardner to the country, he stated in one of his letters, that “ his breathing was much better, and his friends wrere much struck at his improvement, parti- cularly the disappearance of the tumour.” On the 22d of April, however, I received informa- tion of his death. It appeared that the diffi- culty of breathing had returned, and threaten- ed at times immediate suffocation. “ Dissection.—No tumour appeared exter- nally ; the right clavicle was a little elevated, and, on removing the integuments, was found partially dislocated from its sternal articula- tion, and a considerable portion of its under surface was absorbed. Immediately beneath, and imbedded in the surrounding parts, was the tumour, which extended from the sternal extremity of the left, to about the middle of the right clavicle, along the upper and inner surface of the sternum, and reached as low down as the third rib. Laterally it was adhe- rent to the right lung, and posteriorly rested upon the lower cervical and upper dorsal ver- tebrae. “ The trachea was greatly displaced, and very much flattened by pressure of the tu- mour, to which also it was closely attached. “ The tumour was about the size of two fists, and its parietes were firmly consolidated. It emanated from the arteria innominata, in- volving the subclavian and root of the carotid. Superiorly it was of a globular form, but ter- minated, inferiorly, in a point which passed down below the division of the trachea, and behind the aorta. The right carotid was ob- literated ; the right subclavian beyond the tumour was pervious and natural in its struc- ture ; the heart and lungs were sound. “ The attending symptoms, as well as the dissection, fully prove the cause of death to have been the displacement of the trachea, and the consequent pressure of the consoli- dating tumour upon it and the bronchial tubes. Had the operation been performed at an ear- lier stage of the disease, there is every reason to expect it would have terminated success- fully. Should I have another opportunity, I will operate without any delay, and tie both vessels at the same time, and not leave one for a future performance, to be decided upon by the effect of the first.” The fourth case of aneurism of the innomi- nata treated according to this new method of operating was under the care of Dr. Morrison, of Buenos Ayres, and an account of it was