ADHESION. 49 fibrine of the blood, in which new vessels are soon developed, by which the circulation and continuity of the divided parts are restored. As to this point, therefore, these researches are so far important as to remove a difference of opinion which prevailed between Hunter and Thomson. Hunter believed, that the bond of union might be produced in three ways:—1. by exudation of blood, when the quantity was not too great; 2. by the extrava- sation of coagulable lymph ; and 3. by granu- lations. Thomson and others doubted the correctness of Hunter’s opinion, as to the blood becoming the bond of union ; but now that we know that coagulable lymph is fi- brine, the colouring-matter of the blood being removed by a vital process, the body of the controversy disappears, and we at once recog- nise the unity of Nature’s design, whatever be the means she resorts to, to accomplish it; namely, the production of plastic fibrine or lymph, into which, by uninterrupted elabo- ration, the vital elements, nerves, and blood- vessels, are ultimately interwoven. Hunter himself had all but furnished this explanation, in speaking of blood effused in wounds. “ In many cases,” says he, “ in which we mean to produce union by first intention, it is not ne- cessary to be very nice in spunging out the blood with a view to make the two surfaces of the flesh come entirely into contact, the blood itself answering a similar purpose. In several cases, having brought the two portions of loose skin together, I have seen the two cut edges unite almost immediately; and though the cavity underneath was distended with blood, yet it did well, the tumour gradually decreasing as the blood was absorbed; this is to be considered in the same light as an ecchymosis.” When we read this passage, we cannot help wondering how a difference of opinion could have arisen on this point; and our surprise will be still greater when we read another passage, which occurs in the next page. “ The mouths of vessels are soon shut, either by inosculation, or their own power of con- traction, and by the blood becoming vascuiar, as in the former stated case of union by first intention ; and if there be any superfluous ex- travasated blood, we know that it will be afterwards absorbed.” “ The blood being alive, this uniting me- dium becomes immediately a part, of ourselves, and the parts not being offended by it, no irri- tation is produced. The red particles are ab- sorbed, and nothing but the coagulating lymph is retained, which being the true living bond of union, afterwards becomes vascular, ner- vous,” &c. Here we see Hunter himself laying the foundation of the doctrine as to the unity of the end which Nature has in view, and even the unity of the means, although in the modes she resorts to to arrive at it, one may be more circuitous, more subject to interruption than the other. Possibly, the difference of opinion might have arisen from the circumstance that effused blood, particularly when the quantity is considerable, gives rise to great distension and irritation, or, when extravasated into a VOL. I. large uninflamed cavity, suppurates ; but it should have been remembered, that, under such circumstances, the blood may lose its vi- tality, and thus become a foreign body; as long as extravasated blood is still alive, it re- tains the power of being vascularized anew, and of living in its new situation. Another proposition of Hunter’s, affirming that inflammation was necessary to produce adhesive lymph, has given rise to a contro- versy in which physiologists are still at issue. This point of doctrine, which, during a period of forty years, obtained universal assent, and which had been considered as established on an unshakable basis, has attracted the attention of modern pathologists, sharing thus in the scrutiny and experiment to which, in our own times, almost every important doctrine of medical science has been subjected. Perhaps it will prove, that the idea of inflammation, in too absolute a sense, has been attached to the term adhesive inflammation, and that Hunter had himself, in various passages, qualified the term in such a manner, as nearly to meet all the objections of the moderns. It should be recollected, how much more accordant it was with the great sagacity of Hunter, to study the phases and phenomena of inflammation in the various tissues, to mark and delineate them with the hand of a master, than to be critically exact in the terms he created to de- signate them. No one better than he had observed the circumstances which seemed to negative the existence of inflammation as ne- cessary to the production of adhesion, circum- stances which mark a mode of vitality which is now characterized as irritation, or exaltation of organic action. But he did not on that ac- count perceive that there was anything forced in his grand generalization, when he included in it this state or mode of vitality, under the term adhesive inflammation. When a wound is inflicted, lymph is effused, in the opinion of John Bell, from the divided surfaces, without any peculiar elaboration ; the red blood ceases to flow, but a colourless fluid exudes from the divided vessels and from the halitus of the cellular tissue, which fills up the void, and equalizes the surfaces of the wound. John Bell thinks that the term ad- hesive inflammation is inapplicable to this pro- cess, which he regards as purely physiological. (Discourses on Wounds, p. 23.) The fact, that wounds adhere without the manifestation of inflammatory symptoms, strictly so called, was observed by Galen:—“ Frequenter enim vi- dimus cum integrum crus, brachiumve abscis- sum esset, coaluisse tamen vulnus, antequam inflammatio aboriretur.” (Adversus Erasistra- teos. Caput vii. Galenus.) M. Maunoir of Geneva, and Delpech, consider the adhesion that thus takes place, as a proof that the plas- tic lymph is not a product of any unusual action in the part, but the mere result of the coagulation and gradual hardening of the ex- travasatbd fluids. (Memories sur les Amputa- tions.') M. Serre adopts the same view, and regards the phenomenon as appertaining to the same order, with that by which the ovum