CATHETERISM. 739 which it will be proper to follow; one, the ordinary process, in which the catheter is held in parallelism with the abdomen, its concavity corresponding to the pubis, during the time that its bee is being carried down to the bulb; the other, in which the shaft of the catheter lies between the thighs, the handle being di- rected towards the knees, and the convexity towards the pubis, w'hile the bee is being passed through the spongy portion of the urethra ; this is the tour de maitre, or process of sound- ing below the pubis ; the former is the method denominated catheterism, above the pubis. In the process of sounding, above the pubis, as it is termed, when the patient is recumbent, authors direct, if the operation is performed on a bed, that he shall be placed on the left side of the bed, and that the surgeon shall take his station on the left of the patient. This recommendation, as far as I have con- sulted works on the subject, is universal; many authors speak of it as absolutely indis- pensable. I have no hesitation whatever in proclaiming this precept to be a bad one; indeed, of itself, it furnishes proof of the facility with which an idea once promulgated, ex cathedra, obtains currency, and how long its value, however doubtful, remains unquestioned. When we come to examine the matter for ourselves, we j shall readily discover the disadvantages of taking our position on the left of the patient. But to proceed with the usual description of this mode of catheterism. Wc are directed, ! when thus placed, to take hold of the penis behind the glans, between the thumb and the index and the middle fingers of the left hand, holding it at the sides so as not to compress i the urethra. The catheter having been warmed and oiled, throughout its entire length, is held | as a writing pen, by the right hand, in a state I of semi-pronation. The left-hand now raises the penis to the perpendicular, and the right, holding the concavity of the instrument to- wards the abdomen, presents the bee to the : orifice of the urethra, in a perpendicular di- rection, and thus guides it, without changing the parallelism of the shaft of the catheter with the abdomen, till it reaches the bulb. While the bee is advancing to the bulb, the ! left hand is engaged in drawing the penis upon the catheter. Once at the bulb, the bee can proceed no farther, till the direction ' is altered. This is effected by raising the shaft of the sound from its parallelism with the abdomen to the perpendicular. As soon : as the shaft is vertical the bee begins to be engaged in the entrance of the membranous portion of the urethra; its further progress 1 requires the handle of the catheter to be in- I dined between the thighs until the shaft be- , comes almost horizontal. A sensation of re- sistance overcome, or rather, of space sur- rounding the bee of the catheter, and the ) issue of the urine, indicate the arrival of the i instrument in the cavity of the bladder. In this movement, while the handle of the ca- 1 thotcr is describing a semicircle externally, the bee is describing another semicircle, but much less extensive in its course from the bulb to the bladder; the concavities of these two semi- circles, or rather, segments of circles, face each other, and their extent is in the ratio of the straightness or curvature of the catheter, or of the urethra respectively. WThen we come to describe our own mode of introducing the catheter, we shall perceive how superfluous it would be to take notice of the second mode of catheterism, viz. that, so called, below the pubis. The time is gone by when reputation was to be obtained by the performance of merely showy and unnecessary manoeuvres. Simplicity and intelligibility are nowr regarded as the essential elements' and best recommendations of surgical processes. The tour de maitre belongs to those congenial times, when mystification and flourish were W’ont to be regarded as a guarantee for surgi- cal capacity’. We will not sanction it, even on the ground of an imaginary advantage, which some surgeons suppose it to possess in cases of excessive obesity, where the volume of the abdomen is enormous, and the penis seems engulphed in the adipose tissue that encumbers the pubis and perineum. Recent and closer researches into the struc- ture of the urethra, and a knowledge of the mobility of the parts surrounding it, have led to. the establishment of another mode of pass- ing instruments in a straight direction into the bladder, or of t ransferring (if I may’ be allowed the expression) the curve from the instrument employed to the hand that guides it. The position of the patient for introducing a straight inflexible instrument into the blad- der, may also be the erect or the recumbent; the latter, how’ever, deserves to be preferred on account of the relaxation of the parts being more complete in the horizontal posture, a condition comparatively more necessary, not to say indispensable, to this mode of sounding. The shoulders and pelvis should therefore be elevated by means of pillows or cushions, while the loins should be left, in a manner, unsupported, in order to relax the muscles of the abdomen ; the thighs should be semiflexed on the trunk and the knees thrown wide asun- der. The surgeon places himself on the right of the patient, or between his knees, and seiz- ing the penis in the left hand, draws it up to the perpendicular; he now presents the bee of the instrument, previously warmed and oiled, to the orifice of the urethra, and guides it down to the bulb, the instrument making the descent almost solely by its own weight, while the left hand merely holds up the penis, and is quite stationary. The bee of the instru- ment being now at the bulb, the first step of the operation is complete. Before any further progress can be made, the position of the catheter, which is vertical, or nearly so, must be altered ; for this purpose the surgeon now removes his left hand from the penis, which it. has hitherto supported, and places it, with the points of the fingers downw ards, upon the face of the pubis, and w ith the right begins to de- 3 B 2