407 GANGRENE, HOSPITAL. its cooling, as well as from its laxative quality. Even when their use does not seem indicated as evacuant or depleting antiphlogistic reme- dies, the regular administration of laxative medicines, so as to maintain a gently open state of the alimentary canal, cannot fail to mitigate the symptoms of hospital gangrene. From the tendency of ulcerations in per- sons whose systems are impregnated with mercury, to assume a sloughing or phagedsenic character, this remedy has generally been considered as proscribed in the treatment of hospital gangrene. Dr. Adam, however, after explaining the circumstances which led him, every other remedy seeming to prove of no avail, to have recourse to mercury, gives the following very favourable statement of the results obtained from its use. “ I accordingly commenced giving calomel in the dose of ten grains, and half a grain of opium, three times a day, and continued it till the mouth became sensibly affected, which I think generally happened between the third and fourth day. I need not add how gratified I was to find that from the moment this occurrence took place, all the symptoms abated. The patients for the first time expressed the relief they experienced from pain and general febrile irri- tation ; and almost immediately the sloughing ceased, and was succeeded by a line of healthy granulations. The change in some of the cases was most rapid and striking, and in almost all, so marked as to leave no doubt in my mind of its having been brought about by the curative powers of the remedy. As far as I can now call to mind, only one case ob- stinately resisted the powers of the mercury.” Dr. Adam refers also to Dr. Guthrie as hav- ing found mercury useful for the cure of the same kind of malignant ulcer. He exhibited it more sparingly, however, than Dr. Adam, and in the form of blue pill combined with rhubarb. It seems to us impossible, in perusing Dr. Adam’s statement, to overlook the conclusion that the calomel, as administered by him, acted as an antiphlogistic ; and we confess we should be much disposed to believe that a little venesection, seasonably practised, might have proved not less efficacious. Of this remedy Dr. Adam makes no mention. The violent pain which always exists in the commencement of hospital gangrene, seems to call for the use of opium; but as long as the fever and inflammation continue, this drug will tend only, both by its directly stimulating properties, and by its deranging the functions of the stomach and chylopoietic viscera, to aggravate the symptoms. “ In severe cases,” however, as Dr. Thomson remarks, “ attended with a quick and feeble pulse, with depression, restlessness, and anxiety, an opiate becomes necessary. Those who may not have seen opium given to allay the pain attendant upon hospital gangrene, will be surprised to ob- serve,” continues this author, “ how little relief it usually brings in the commencement of this disease. Given in a very early stage of hospital gangrene, I think I have, as in typhus fever, repeatedly seen it do harm. Several of the navy surgeons were convinced, from their own experience, that it added to the violence of the fever. When, however, the febrile reaction has a little subsided, opium is the internal remedy, from the judi- cious use of which may be obtained the most sensible relief and the most permanent advan- tage.” Dr. Adam says, that “opium, the employ- ment of which seemed so peculiarly indicated here, from the severity of the local pain, was freely administered, with no better effect (than bark). It scarcely served to mitigate the symptoms, and I thought, upon the whole, did harm, by constipating the bowels, and increasing the feverish disposition of the system.” (p. 145.) As to the more diffusible stimuli, camphor was regarded by Pouteau as a medicine pecu- liarly useful in putting a stop to the progress of hospital gangrene. Without supposing it to possess any specific influence over this dis- ease, camphor may be employed, in cases in which a doubt exists as to the expediency of administering wine, or as to the length to which its administration may safely be carried, as a substitute for wine, or as subsidiary to it; the more so that it seems to possess consider- able anodyne effects, on which account it may perhaps be used where opium is improper. Dr. Boggie regards camphor as applic;ble chiefly to the low state of the disease, which sometimes succeeds to great vascular action, or where the fever is evidently typhoid. In such cases he has occasionally used it, and, he thinks, with good effect. “ There are certain subjects,” says M. Delpech, “ so susceptible of impressions, as to retain some nervous symptoms after the destruction of the local cause, and after the extinction of the principal phenomena depending on the general reac- tion that is produced by the gangrene. In such cases, camphor has appeared to us to produce advantageous effects; but they are not of frequent occurrence.” (P. 102.) Though the reputation which bark at one time enjoyed as a specific in ordinary gan- grene has ied to its employment in the form of disease at present under consideration, all authors seem to agree in reprobating its in- ternal use at an early period. Dr. Thomson mentions that he has often seen bark adminis- tered in hospital gangrene ; but he cannot say that he has ever seen it act beneficially : in more cases than one he has seen it prove highly injurious, by loading the stomach, and by exciting diarrhoea. M. Delpech satisfied himself by numerous trials, that the only cir- cumstances under which the administration of bark is attended with benefit is in the ady- namic period of the general affection, pro- vided the local affection be already subdued by the appropriate remedies. Given under other circumstances it is useless or injurious. When, in the more advanced stages of the disease, and after the inflammation has abated, it may seem desirable to secure for the patient