90 AMAUROSIS. not in proportion to the loss of power in the retina ; and the amaurosis is often nearly com- plete before any increased action is apparent in the sclerotica. In iritis, change in colour of the iris, loss of brilliancy, and even tubercular deposit of fi- brin often precedes the diminution or loss of vision; and also an extensive injection of the vessels of the sclerotica around the margin of the cornea, and a considerable degree of con- junctivitis may exist with iritis, and yet the vision be little disturbed. It must be remembered, however, that iritis cannot well exist for many days without the disease extending to the choroid; and as soon as the choroid becomes affected, vision is dis- turbed and soon destroyed. If disturbance of vision precedes inflammatory symptoms in the iris, the disease has commenced in the choroid ; but when change in the iris takes place before amaurotic symptoms occur, the iritis is pri- mary, and the choroiditis secondary. Before the iris participates in the disease originating in the choroid, the symptoms I have described must, I conceive, render the diagnosis easy; but as soon as the iris, sclero- tica, &c. become implicated, the origin of the disease can only be detected by a careful exa- mination into the history of the case. The commencement of organic affection of the choroid, although unattended by any marked symptoms of inflammatory action, de- mands serious attention and careful manage- ment ; the patient being otherwise constantly liable to a sudden burst of inflammation and its consequences. The existence, then, of a network or gauze, or the appearance of large dark spots in the field of vision, unaccompanied by pain or un- easiness, or by any other evidence of increased action in the vessels of the conjunctiva or sclerotica, should meet with prompt attention and careful treatment, by which the integrity of the organ may be, in most instances, re- stored, and, at all events, useful vision pre- served. The organ should be perfectly rested, and kept from exposure to bright light ; counter- irritation, by means of blisters or tartar emetic ointment, should be created upon the forehead or temple ; the diet should be adapted to the power of the patient, but he should avoid sti- mulating food or drink (beyond that which habit may have rendered necessary), and such matter as is not easy of digestion, or is in- compatible with the medicine employed. Medicinal treatment should first be directed to correct errors in secretion, and restore the disordered functions,—the accomplishment of W'hich is frequently sufficient to subdue the ocular disease; hut should the vision continue disturbed, the alterative mercurial course should be adopted, and the local remedies continued. It is very rarely necessary to produce mercurial action in the system. When the patient experiences a sense of fulness in the eye, or pain or uneasiness about the forehead or temple, in addition to the dis- turbance of vision, abstraction of some blood, by cupping-glass or leeches, may be required, and a more simple and abstemious plan of diet should be adopted so long as such symp- toms exist; and under the continuance of this symptom, loss of blood may be again resorted to with advantage. Blood should always be taken away in moderation, and only in sufficient quantity to relieve congestion, but not to affect the general circulation. When decided inflammatory action occurs, the treatment must be active, in proportion to the symptoms and the powers of the patient. I have observed that the disease attacks prin- cipally those of naturally feeble constitution ; therefore, if depletion be requisite in the com- mencement of treatment, the patient should be most carefully watched during its continu- ance, so that it may not be carried beyond the extent required to check the acute symptoms, nor produce unnecessary exhaustion. In many cases, when the disease is apparently acute, but the power feeble, the loss of blood aggra- vates, rather than benefits, the affection ; this I have observed most frequently in young and delicate females. I have known the con- tinuance of depletory treatment prove most injurious in augmenting the morbid action and hastening the disorganizing process. Unfortunately, as relief frequently follows the local abstraction of blood, the patient in every fresh attack or relapse is desirous of resorting to the same treatment again, and the medical attendant, unacquainted with its in- jurious effects, readily adopts it: the relief is however of short duration ; another burst of acute symptoms in a few days occurs—the same remedies are again resorted to, with similar effect, but the patient is further re- duced in power, and the local disease has made some progress in disorganization ; under continuance of this treatment the patient suf- fers from repeated attacks of the acute kind, each of which produces an increase in the amaurosis, and eventually vision is completely destroyed, while, at the same time, the gene- ral health is materially deranged, if not per- manently injured. I have seen several very distressing cases of permanent amaurosis resulting from such treat- ment ; and I have also known many instances in which the disease has been arrested and vision preserved, by raising and maintaining the general power, and pursuing the medical treatment which I have recommended, after many weeks of depletion had failed to produce the desired effect. I much wish that I had space to illustrate these observations by cases. The chronic 'form of the disease often pro- ceeds in such an insidious manner that amau- rosis may be produced in one eye without the patient being conscious of anything more than the muscae or spots which occur in the early part of the affection ; this, however, happens very rarely ; but frequently patients allow the disease to proceed to the extent of destruc-