702 CAPISTRUM. s. 107. (1809). Neuhof same Journal, et. 2, s. 86.(1810). Siebert. same Journal, st. 12, s. 74. (1818.) Busch, in Siebold’s Journal, bd.8. s. 49G. Romberg in Rust’s Magazin, bd. 30. H. 1. s. 144. Huetcr, in Grate und Walther’s Journal, bd. 13. H. 1. s. 26. Reg, Revne Medicale, t. vi. p. 184, Marshall Hall, Edin. Med. and Surg. Journal, vol. xv. p. 547. Green, Lancet, vol. ii. 1839-40. Webb, Medical Examiner, No. 35, 1839, Philadelphia. Willis, Illustrations of Cutane- ous Disease. London, 1840. (P. Hennis Green.) CANTHARIDES, a species of insect employed in blistering. (See that article.) The tincture of cantharides is also employed in incontinence of urine, sluggishness of the bladder, gleets, &c. In powder, it is some- times added to stimulating ointments, to insure their effect. A blistering tissue, con- taining the vesicating principle of the Meloe vesicatoria, has been of late introduced, and may be considered as a Benzoate of Canthari- dine. It is free from most of the inconveni- ences of the common blistering plaster. This preparation, which is spread on paper, is not injured by keeping—may be carried in the surgeon’s pocket-case, and cut into segments of any shape or size for instant use. CANULA, dimin, of Canna, “ a reed tubulus, Lat. ; Rohrchen, Ger. A long, hollow, usually cylindrical instrument, open at both ends, employed to protect the neigh- bouring organs, and at the same time to con- vey medicinal substances, instruments, liga- tures, &c. into deep seated parts. Canulas are made of wood, metal, or elastic gum. CAOUTCHOUC, or CAUCHUC, from its Indian name Cahuchu ; Federharz, Ger. The indian rubber, as it is commonly called, is obtained in the form of a milky juice from the Hevea guianensis, and various other trees in South America and Java. The juice flowing from incisions made into the bark of the tree, is received on clay moulds, and dried in the sun, or by artificial heat; the watery portion being thus evaporated, the caoutchouc remains in the state in which it is imported. But even the juice itself has of late years been brought to this country. In the state of cohesion, it is insoluble in alcohol. When treated with hot naphtha, it swells to thirty times its bulk, and if then triturated with a pestle and passed through asieve, it forms a homogeneous varnish, which being evenly spread on cloth, by means of a flat edge, constitutes the process of pre- paring the water-proof cloth of Macintosh. Tw'o surfaces of the cloth thus varnished are then brought into contact, and united evenly by being passed through rollers. This substance has been also made available in the manufacture of webs, ribands, braces, and even of cloth. Notwithstanding the varied and useful properties which recommend it in a peculiar manner for surgical purposes, it has not yet received anything like the attention it deserves on the part of the profession. Many years ago, and long before its manu- facture had reached its present advanced state, it was proposed by the late Dr. Addie, of Stockton, to employ caoutchouc in a great variety of ways, tending to promote health, cleanliness, and comfort. With a bed formed of this material, and which would be perfectly portable, the soldier would find ready quarters. Mariners and coast-guards would find in it light and durable materials for life-boats, Ac. Field-labourers, and all persons who toil in the open fields, in our latitudes, would find in it a cheap, clean, and protective clothing. In hospitals, caoutchouc beds would conduce greatly to the comfort of the sick, as they do not become impregnated with morbid secre- tions, or other impurities that necessarily occur during the course of diseases, a spunge and warm water being all that is required to free them from any accidental soil. By a judicious arrangement of buckles and straps, and regu- lating the insufflation of the bed, the patient may instantly be placed in any posture that may be desirable, without even touching him. In lying-in hospitals, where it is so difficult to keep the mother comfortable on account of the lochial discharge, they would be of very great importance. In ships, these beds might be used as ham- mocks, and if threatened with shipwreck, they would afford a resource to the crew by which many might escape. In military campaigns, it might and ought to be employed in many more w'ays than it now is : as stretchers for carrying the wounded from the field, and on which they might remain till the surgeon could attend to them, a caoutchouc bed would be infinitely preferable for this service, to the clumsy modes now in use. The following are the chief uses made of this substance in surgery, though with a little ingenuity on the part of surgeons, many more applications of it might be usefully made. It is made into bag-syringes and clysoirs, for various kinds of injection, acoustic and oesophageal tubes, canulas, cathe- ters, bougies, urinals for persons labouring under incontinence of urine, nipples for sore breasts, pessaries, trusses, air-pads, cushions, and water- bags for relieving pressure, or imparting warmth or cold, elastic webs for bandages, laced stock- ings for varicose veins, knee-caps, gout-socks, hospital sheets, tape for setons, &c. Dr. Arnot.t applied with great success the Macin- tosh cloth to the manufacture of his hydro- static-bed, and Mr. Cow, of her Majesty’s dock-yard at Woolwich, has introduced into the government hospitals, inflated pads and cushions, of the required forms to be used, instead of bandages in cases of fractured limbs, gun-shot wounds, &c. CAPE LINE, a bandage for the head. By extension, French writers have used the term in speaking of a bandage for fractures of the clavicle or scapula, and even for the stump of the arm. See Bandage. CAPISTRUM, c/ievestre, Fr., a name given to various bandages of the head. See