36 EAR, AND HEARING, DISEASES OF. without much change, the hearing distance remaining at about fifteen feet only. Friday, 3rd.—Right ear continues good ; left ear hears the watch at the distance of sixteen feet four inches. Saturday 4th.—Dismissed cured, and is to go back to school on Monday. To guard against a relapse, it was directed, in addition to the general instructions regarding diet and regimen, obviously indicated, that, in the event of ear-ache coming on again, leeches should be freely applied without loss of time, the ear fomented with warm water, and warm sweet oil dropped in. Saturday, 18th.—Received a letter from Mrs. to-day, in which she says her son is quite as well as when I saw him last; and although he had had a slight cold since, it had not in the least affected his hearing. Remarks.—In this case the principal cause of the deafness was accumulation of mucus in the tympanic cavities. There was no par- ticular obstruction of the Eustachian tubes ; it merely appears that at first the Eustachian tube of the left side was impervious to a stream of air blown from the mouth ; and that at the first application of the air-douche, the air penetrated less freely and with more gurgling than on the right. That the affec- tion of the auditory passages had some share in the production of the deafness, was shown by the circumstance, that when they were restored to a more healthy state, the hearing distance was raised a few inches, and the sus- ceptibility to the human voice very much im- proved ; but the clogged state of the tympana prevented improvement to any considerable extent. The increasing ratio in the progress of improvement, under the use of the air-douche, illustrates well both the nature of the principal cause, and the efficiency of the means adopted for its removal. That hearing was not so fully restored on the left side as on the right, was owing to the opaque and thickened state of the membrana tympani, and possibly to a similar state of other parts of the ear not accessible to view. As to the origin of this state of the ears : The deafness, it is said, was first observed to come on after the measles. Both the eye and the ear, it is well known, are particularly ob- noxious, especially in scrofulous constitutions, to what is called the dregs of the measles, as well as of the other exanthemata. Ophthal- mia tarsi, scrofulous ophthalmia, chronic da- cryo-cystitis, &c. all diseases involving tegu- mentary structures, are very often excited by the measles, &c. The accessary parts of the ear being in like manner chiefly composed of the tegumentary tissue, readily participate in the various affections of the skin. In the case before us I believe wre have a counter- part of the diseases of the eye excited by the same cause. The tegumentary lining of the auditory passages with the ceruminous glands w'ere affected. But in addition to the affection of the tegu- ment of the auditory passages, there was some affection of the mucous membrane lining the cavity of the tympanum, giving rise to the accumulation of mucus ; an affection which might be compared to the scrofulous or scro- fulo-catarrhal ophthalmia often excited by measles, and often existing along with oph- thalmia tarsi. Unfortunately, cases such as the above have a great tendency to relapse, either in conse- quence of the membrane, the seat of the dis- ease, not being restored to a healthy action, and thus giving rise to a re-accumulation of mucus, or in consequence of a new attack of inflammation to which the part will continue as liable as before, or more so. This is not surprising when we reflect on the difficulty of completely curing a chronic conjunctivitis, a chronic dacryo-cystitis, or even a chronic inflammation of the mucous membrane of the nose and throat, or the liability of these dis- eases, when cured, to fall back from the slight- est causes. Master C. D. came under my care again eight months after he had been dismissed cured, for a renewal of deafness, brought on by repeated attacks of ear-ache while at school. No measures had been taken immediately to subdue the inflammation ; the cautions and advice given when he was dismissed, having been entirely neglected *. Chronic inflammation with thickening of the lining membrane of the middle car. In the cases above related, as the mucus was dispersed and air again permitted to cir- culate freely in the middle ear, the hearing improved. Another and a more numerous class of cases is met with, in which, on exploring the Eustachian tube and cavity of the tympanum by the air-douche, the air either does not at first enter at all, or in a small interrupted stream with a shrill whistling sound, but with little or no gurgling to indicate any accumu- lation of mucus. Though, in such cases, by repeated applications, the air-douche comes at last to enter more freely, no improvement in hearing is effected. Between this class of cases and the former, there are many of an intermediate nature, in which the air enters more or less freely from the first, with or without indications of mucu- lent accumulation, and in which the air-douche is followed by improvement in various de- grees, but, in general, only temporary. The patient may have had pain, sometimes only feelings of uneasiness and fulness in the ears, but frequently the affected organ offers no painful symptoms. Dulness of hearing ^ alone is what the patient complains of, and that may have come on so gradually, that it was, perhaps, first discovered only by acci- dent. One ear alone may be affected, but more commonly both suffer. When this is the case the deafness may have come on in both at the same time or in one after the 1 The continuation of this case is related further on at p. 38.