335 ANUS. fibres of the levator ani and the muscular coat of the rectum ; laying bare the mucous mem- brane, as in the case before mentioned, and rendering the same division of parts neces- sary. The arrangement of the fascia on the gluteus maximus explains the reason of the peculiar formation of the tumour. Though circumscribed, as in other parts, it is not de- fined, and its base is lost in the muscle through which it is felt. It has been a question on which surgeons have been divided in opinion, whether the operation should cease on the free liberation of the matter, or be continued to the division of the gut. It appears to us that the question admits of no dispute ; for, if the rectum be not denuded, and a full and fair incision be made into the abscess, the cavity will, in the majority of cases, be filled up without the intervention of a severe, and, in that case, unnecessary operation. Nay, should the mucous membrane be laid bare, is it not in opposition to every principle of surgery to perform an operation which would entail the necessity of cramming extraneous, and conse- quently, irritating materials into parts already irritated to an unnatural degree? For it must be borne in mind, that to carry out the principle of such an operation, the walls of the cavity, both incised and purulent, must be kept separate to ensure its granulating from its deepest surface ; and we know that where, as in fistula, the inflammation that prevails in the cavity has assumed a chronic form, the introduction, — the necessary introduc- tion,—of a foreign body frequently lights up great constitutional as well as local irrita- tion. But here there is nothing chronic; the plastic operations of nature are in their great- est state of activity, and to interfere with them is to thwart their efforts by re-exciting a tumultuous action which would destroy the newly formed granulations. And here the questions arise how much of the reparation are we to leave to a natural process ? and how much are we to take into our own hands ? We must either make the connexion between the gut and the abscess at the greatest depth of the latter, or there is some point of limita- tion. Seeing that the abscess sometimes ex- tends as high as the line of union between the two fasciae which form the walls of the recess, in other words, as high as the origin of the levator ani, it is obvious that we cannot make the incision there ; and, if we stop short of that, it is difficult to conceive the soundness of a doctrine which does not equally apply to the treatment of the upper and to that of the lower part of a cavity. It appears to be a more discreet proceed- ing to limit our endeavours to a decided and ample liberation of the contents of an abscess (for it is the feeble and imperfect opening which usually is followed by these fistulous drains) and, without attempting to inquire into the state of the gut, to suffer the patient to remain tranquil that the disturbance of the system may subside, and the parts be restored to a degree of composure. Whether an ope- ration may ultimately be necessary, or whether it maybe altogether dispensed with, there is this great advantage gained by delay, that a chronic will have supplied an acute action, and the dressings and passage of the faeces will be more readily tolerated ; while, further, a con- siderable portion of the cavity will be filled up and the point for perforation accurately pointed out. We would not exempt from this condemna- tion, notwithstanding the high authority of its proposer, the plan recommended by Vel- peau of opening the abscess, when it involves the levator ani, from the interior of the rec- tum by means of a probe-pointed bistouri, so guarded as to avoid wounding the anus and lower part of the gut. It is difficult to ensure that the incision shall extend to the deepest part of the abscess, and, if it do not, we only make an aperture into a cavity into which the faeces will readily make their way ; and even if we accomplish the full division of the parietes of the abscess, the stercoraceous matter would yet insinuate itself between the edges of the incision, and thus, by fomenting an inflamma- tory action and the burrowing of pus render ultimately necessary a complete division of the sphincters. It is possible that in a few solitary cases the restorative process may be carried, by these means, to a successful issue ; but it appears to us that they will not justify the substitution of such a plan for one which is far more safe and less likely, if it be pro- perly performed, to entail future annoyance on the patient. We say, “properly performed,” inasmuch as the chief cause of incomplete success at- tending the operation of opening from below, arises from the system of puncturing rather than incising the parts ; thereby affording a facility for the lodgement of pus, the reten- tion of which carries on the work of devasta- tion in the same way as does the introduction of faecal matter in the operation advocated by Velpeau. 3. Phlegmonous abscess is sometimes situ- ated in front of the rectum. When so situ- ated, the bladder suffers more than the rec- tum, for the tumour presses directly beneath the prostate gland, and the membranous portion of the urethra, against which it is principally directed by reason of its being- confined by the deep fascia of the perineum above, the transversus perinei and superficial fascia below, and the union of the two fasciae behind. By this union of the fasciae the tumour is prevented encroaching on the rec- tum, and, by the same cause, its accumulation is directed upwards and forwards to the ure- thra. There is some pain in the act of de- fecation, but not of so aggravated a kind as when the matter is situated on the side of the gut; but the retention of urine by the occlu- sion of the urethra arrives more speedily, and is more complete than in the former instance. An incision, like unto the first in the ope- ration of lithotomy, but not extending so far