CHEMOSIS. 7 GG camphor one ounce ; rub them well together. Use : to dispel indolent tumours. Cerate of acetate of lead (ceratum plumbi acetalis). Acetate of lead, powdered, two drachms, white wax two ounces, olive oil eight fluid ounces ; dissolve the wax in seven fluid ounces of the oil, then to these gradually add the acetate of lead, separately rubbed with the remainder of the oil, and stir with a spatula until they unite. Use : a cooling application in cases of burns and excoriations. Compound cerate of lead (ceratum plumbi composition). Solution of diacetate of lead eight fluid ounces, wax six ounces, olive oil half a pint, camphor half a drachm ; mix the melted wax with eight fluid ounces of the oil, then remove them from the fire, and when first they begin to thicken, add gradually the solution of the diacetate of lead, and stir con- stantly with a spatula until cool ; lastly, mix with these the camphor dissolved in the re- mainder of the oil. This is commonly called Goulard’s cerate ; is used for the same pur- pose as the foregoing. It has also been recommended in cases of chronic ophthalmia of the tarsus, and of the increased secretion of tears peculiar to old age. Its virtues are cooling, desiccative, resolvent against chronic rheumatism, &c. ; and is a proper application to superficial ulcers, which are inflamed. Cerate of resin ( ceratum resince ). Resin and wax, of each one pound, olive oil sixteen fluid ounces ; melt the resin and wax together with a slow fire, then add the oil, and press the cerate while hot through a linen cloth. Commonly called yellow basilicon ; is used as an application to foul and indolent ulcers. Cerate of savine ( ceratum sabincc ). Bruised savine one pound, wax half a pound, lard two pounds ; boil the savine in the lard and wax melted together, then press them through a linen cloth. Used in cases where cerate of cantharides excites too much irritation. It was first described by Mr. Crowther, and has now been received into extensive use. A thick wrhite layer forms daily on the part, which must be removed, in order that the cerate may be applied immediately to the sur- face from which the discharge is to be made. Cerate of soap (ceratum sajionis J. Soap ten ounces, wax twelve ounces and a half, oxide of lead, powdered, fifteen ounces, olive oil a pint, vinegar a gallon ; boil the vinegar with the oxide of lead over a slow fire, constantly stirring until they unite, then add the soap, and boil again in a similar manner until all the moisture is evaporated ; lastly, mix with these the wax previously dissolved in oil. Cooling; resolvent ; against scrofu- lous tumours, &c. : is a convenient .application in fractures, and may be used as an external dressing for ulcers. The following cerates are also used, though not so frequently as the foregoing, Hemlock cerate (ceratum conii). Ointment of hemlock one pound, spermaceti two ounces, white wax three ounces—mix. One of the formulae of St. Bartholomew’s hospital, occa- sionally applied to cancerous, scrofulous, pha- gedenic, herpetic, and other inveterate sores. Galen's cerate (ceratum Galeni J. White wax four parts, oil of sweet almonds sixteen parts ; when melted thoroughly add of water, or of rose water, twelve parts. The water should be added guttatim to the above when cool; and in order to incorporate it with the wax and oil, the preparation would require to be constantly stirred during the process. If too much water be added, it will separate from the cerate in the form of small drops. This is the cerate most commonly employed by the French surgeons. Used as a mild application to chaps, &c. CERUMEN AURIS, accumulation of. See Ear. CHAFING,from the French verb,chauffer, to heat. The rubefaction, or erosion of the skin produced by friction, cither from the clothes or folds of the skin itself. Infants are subject to suffering from this cause. The best remedy is washing with cold water, and dusting with hair powder, or power of rotten wood. CHALAZIUM, from xa\a?a, a hailstone ; some authors have thus designated the small, hard, round tumours developed in the eye-lids, and in other parts of the body. See Hor- deolum. CHANCRE, Ulcera cancrosa. The ulcer that arises from the direct application of the venereal virus to any part of the body. Of course it is most frequent on the sexual or- gans. It is so named on account of its ten- dency to spread, and invade the surrounding parts. See Syphilis. CHARPIE, carbasus, lintea carpta. This substance is used in dressing wounds, ulcers, fistulae, &c. and is prepared by cutting old linen or rags into small pieces, which are then broken up into filaments, or threads. If the threads are thick and coarse, the charpie is called brute, but if fine, and softened by being scraped with the back of a knife, it is known as the charpie rapee. It forms an absorbent and economical dressing, and in hospitals may be prepared by the patients themselves. CHEMOSIS, xwloa,G’ fr°m X'lf1! a h°le or opening. This term is employed to desig- nate the inflammatory oedema of the subcon- junctival cellular tissue of the eye-ball, which occurs in certain ophthalmiae, by which the conjunctiva, red and swollen, is raised from the sclerotica all round the cornea and made to overlap its edge to a greater or less extent. The centre of the cornea, the only part which is seen, thus appears sunk. Sec Ophthal- mia.