COLLYRIUM. 798 applications to the eye, will be appended ex- amples of formulae, but in regard to these, it may be well to remind the young surgeon that it is not an acquaintance with this or that kind of application which is of so much consequence, as to be able to distinguish under what circumstances it should be employed. As regards the various medicinal substances of which eye-waters, &c. are composed, none have any specific virtue, and one will fre- quently act as well as another, if applied with method and discrimination, whilst without a correct diagnosis to guide in their application, they may be all equally injurious. Cataplasms and Fomentations.—Cata- plasms over the eyes arc sometimes useful; but they must not be long persevered in, and the eyes ought to be carefully examined from time to time during their application. When applied warm, they should never be allowed to cool on the eyes. Most usually cataplasms are simply emollient, but they are sometimes narcotic, refrigerant, or astringent. The cataplasma aluminis of the Dublin Pharmaco- poeia is an astringent. It is composed of the whites of two eggs and one drachm of alum in powder, shaken together until a coagulmn is formed. The coagulum is applied enclosed between two folds of fine soft linen or coarse lawn. Fomentations.—As applications to the eye, fomentations are much more convenient and elegant than poultices. Water simply may be used for the purpose, or, as a cold application, a solution of muriate of ammonia in rose water, mixed with a small quantity of spirit or vinegar ; and as a warm fomentation, chamomile decoction, poppy de- coction, and the like. The application is made by means of compresses of old soft linen or lint, or by means of crumb of bread sewed between two layers of soft muslin or lawn. These ought not be so heavy as to press unpleasantly on the eye, and they should be broad enough to cover both the eye and neighbouring parts. After the removal of an application, the eyes must be carefully dried with a soft linen cloth. During the intervals between the applica- tion of warm fomentations, the patient should not expose himself to the open air. This is not the place to discuss the compa- rative merits of cold and warm applications to the eyes, but it is to be remarked, that the application of the former requires to be kept up for some time, whereas it is not necessary to continue the latter for more than half an hour occasionally in the course of the day, and during the night not at all. Eye-waters are solutions of astringent, sti- mulant, or narcotic substances, or of all com- bined. Their state of concentration regulates the mode of application, hence the division into eye-waters properly so called, and drops for the eyes. (a.) Eye-waters properly so called, are the weaker solutions, and are used to bathe the eye occasionally in the course of the day. The fluid is to be put into a cup in sufficient quantity and made tepid. The patient then holding his head over the vessel is to lave his eye with the water by means of a piece of sponge or soft linen rag; and after this has been done for a few minutes, some of the fluid may be dropped fairly into the eye by an assistant squeezing the soaked rag over it, while the patient lies on his back, and endea- vours to hold his eve-lids apart. After this the eye may be laved again for a minute or so, and then carefully dried with a soft linen cloth. An eye-glass is not to be recommended. A principal object in the process above de- scribed is to remove any discharge from the eye. In the blennorrhceal ophthalmias, when the eyelids are enormously swollen and can- not be opened, it may be necessary to inject the eye-water between the eyelids, after they have been cleansed as much as possible by- means of the bathing simply. In using the syringe however, care must be taken not to injure the patient’s eye by pressure or the like, and on the other hand, the operator should guard his own eyes from receiving any spark of matter. In order to act on the inner surface of the lachrymal passages, the simplest way of ap- plying the eye-water is to drop it into the inner corner of the eye, and leave it there some time till it is taken up by the puncta. It is sometimes also injected directly through the puncta and canaliculcs by means of Ariel’s syringe. Injections are occasionally thrown into the lachrymal passages from the opening of the nasal duct into the nose ; but when an external opening into the lachrymal sac exists, whether it has been made by operation or the bursting of an abcess, we have the readiest access to the mucous surface of the lachrymal passages. Examples. Ijl—Aluminis gr. xxxij. Aquas ros. jjviij. Solve. Ft. aqua ophthalmica. Ijk—Sulphat. zinci gr. xxxij. Aquae ros. Jviij, Acid, sulph. dilut. gtt. xxxij. F. solutio pro aqua ophthalmica. Ijt—Hydrarg. muriat. corros. gr. j—ij Ammonias muriat. gr. viij. Aq. ros. 5viij. Solve, &c. Ijl—Lapidis divini1 9j. Aquas dcstillat. jy. Solve et cola. Colaturae adde Aqua: rosarum 3 vij. Misce, &c. Sig. Aqua ophthalmica. 1 Iji—TEruginis, Nitratis potass®, Aluminis aa partes xvj. Terantur sirnul ct liquefiant in vase vitrco in balneo