628 CANCER, PATHOLOGY OF. Districts. No. of square yards to one person. Annual general rate of mortality per 1000. Annual rate of mortality per thousand from Typhoid Fever. Phthisis. Cancer. A 57 33-21 3-24 4-78 •123 B 78 28-39 2-05 4-51 •183 C 219 21-63 1-07 3-54 •199 It is not meant to be deduced from this table that general salubrity is favourable to the pro- duction of cancer, but it clearly follows from it that the influences increasing the mortality from disease in general, and from typhoid fever and phthisis in particular, (several other affec- tions might be added to these) exercise no such influence on carcinoma. It may perhaps be conjectured that the high quota furnished by the West-End Unions (C) may be caused by the greater prevalence of the disease among the easier classes of the community ; but if the table we give elsewhere of the so- cial position of cancerous patients possess no other utility, it at least is useful in the refuta- tion of this notion,—the large share of indivi- duals belonging to the lower orders is there dis- tinctly shown, and both results are drawn from almost exactly the same series of facts. The number and extent of hospitals in each district are sufficiently equal to require scarcely any correction on this score. 6. Trade or occupation. The broadest divi- sion of occupation, in a hygeinic point of view, is into those connected with agriculture on the one hand, and with trade, manufactures, and handicraft on the other. It may not be without utility to inquire, as far as available documents enable us to do, into the relative liability of individuals belonging to these great divisions of society to suffer from cancerous diseases. This has not been done by the com- parison of towns and rural districts, for num- bers of individuals engaged in agricultural pursuits may be inhabitants of towns, and vice versa. We shall select for this compari- son Birmingham, as furnishing the greatest excess of trading over agricultural families, and a division of the kingdom, comprising Cambridge, Huntingdon, and the southern parts of Lincoln, as exemplifying the converse No. of families employed in Deaths from Cancer. Agricul- ture. Trade, Manufac- tures, Handicraft. Other families. Birmingham. 301 20,763 2,870 14 Counties named. 35,105 18,813 13,433 30 condition. Calculating from the populations estimated approximatively for the period in question, the annual mortality from cancer in Birmingham—wdien the families engaged in trade and artisanship arc sixty-nine times more numerous than those employed in agriculture —is -224 per thousand ; while in the rural dis- tricts enumerated, where the latter class of family is about double as numerous as the former, it is • 178. The advantage appears somewhat in favour of agricultural pursuits on first view ; but the lower rate of mortality is evidently quite out of proportion with the vast relative minority of manufacturing fami- lies in the country districts. In the mining districts of Staffordshire, Shropshire, Worcestershire, Northumberland, and Durham, of which the combined popula- tion in 1831 was 542,398, the deaths from carcinoma were 42 in six months ; so that • 155 per thousand of the inhabitants perish annu- ally from that disease. This is the low'est proportion yet noticed, and it would be still lower if we were enabled to calculate from the real population furnishing the deaths, namely that of 1837. Nevertheless, a large share of these people are constantly exposed to the influence of impure and damp air, and defective insolation. The remarkable longe- vity of the inhabitants of Durham generally, as shown in Mr. Farr’s tables may in some measure account for the comparatively small annual amount of cancerous deaths 2. M. Benoiston de Chateauneuf3 has shown, in a paper on the mortality of the French infantry, that, out of a total number of 4915 deaths occurring in six years in a military body 723,741 strong, 33 were from “ cancer and ulcers.” Hence the annual mortality is only ’045 per thousand from those affec- tions ; and 6-71 per thousand of the total num- ber of deaths are thus produced. Now the rate of mortality from cancer among civilians is at least as high in France as in England. The cause of the apparently very low propor- tion in the army is, however, easily explained. The age at which youths arc eligible for the conscription is 21 ; when enlisted they are obliged to serve six years (if in the infantry) and then given their conge—the mean age of the great majority of foot soldiers is, therefore, twenty-three and a half. Now on referring to Table II. we find that the rate of mortality per thousand among English male civilians from 20 to 30 is only -010 ; hence the chances would appear considerably against, instead of being in favour of, a military life in respect of this 1 Loc. cit. Appendix Q. 2 The valuable observations of Dr. Forbes on the diseases of miners substantiate the inference in the text. Although “ there is an extraordinary superiority in the rate of mortality in the mining parishes over the agricultural and even those containing towns and crowded villages,” this superiority evidently does not in any degree spring from the prevalence of cancerous disease. (See Provincial Med. and Surg. Transac- tions. vol. iv. p. 215.) The mean duration of life ap- pears to be materially lower among miners than other labourers; this must have some influence in lessening the frequency of cancer among them. 3 Annalcs d’Hygiene, t. x. p. 239, 1833.