455 BALSAM OF COPAIBA. pletc phymosis, (and this is the only trouble- some form of balanitis,) it is not very clear how a stick of caustic could be properly em- ployed. M. Rieord, however, speaks very highly of it, and assures us, that of all “ resol- vent” methods this is the most effectual. Chronic Balanitis.—This may follow attacks of the acute form ; but it more frequently oc- curs independently of it. Like acute balanitis, it presents itself in connection with complete phymosis, or with a partial investment of the glans by the prepuce. But acute balanitis can scarcely happen, unless that investment be considerable, while chronic balanitis is not uncommon, when the foreskin does not cover more than a third of the glans. In acute balanitis the surface of the glans, as well as the inner layer of the prepuce are affected; in the chronic the complaint is usually limited to the inner layer of the pre- puce contiguous to the corona, and the gutter immediately behind the latter. This portion of the mucous membrane is red, tumefied, and moist. If there is much prepuce, the sebaceous secretion may collect; if there is little, with ordinary cleanliness, it will not. The surface is not usually abraded of epithelium ; but after coition, or much exer- cise, or a debauch, it may become so. The tendency to “ excoriations” in connection, is marked ; and this very tendency predisposes the individual to venereal sores. The subject of chronic balanitis can scarcely indulge in sexual intercourse, without either an abrasion, or ulceration, or some other consequence of the extreme irritability of the part. The affected surface is generally tender to the touch, particularly after the excitement of coition. I have seen the latter give rise to inflammation of the penis, and the small abs- cess behind the corona is common in cases of chronic balanitis. When the disorder has lasted long, the mu- cous membrane behind the corona is thickened, warts are apt to spring up, the epithelium is easily abraded, and small ulcers, with a yellow surface, and slightly cupped, are occasionally observed, independently of previous connec- tion. These ulcers appear to be similar to the sores that are not unfrequent on the mu- cous membranes of the lips and cheeks, and tongue, in persons with deranged digestive organs. They wear a similar aspect, looking as if a piece of mucous membrane had been picked out with the nail ; and they are ob- served in similar states of constitution. How- ever this may be, such sores on the prepuce do certainly arise spontaneously, and heal without entailing secondary symptoms. I have seen them mistaken for “ chancres,” and patients put unnecessarily on a course of mercury. I am inclined to think, that persons who labour under chronic balanitis are peculiarly prone to that troublesome affection—herpes ol the prepuce. The essential cause of chronic balanitis is too long a prepuce. In some individuals, and particularly in those who commit excesses, sexual or dietetic, any degree of -investment of the glans, disposes to irritability and chronic inflammation of the mucous membrane. This tendency may give rise to no material incon- venience, until connection is indulged in, and other irregularities take place. Then, chro- nic balanitis is apt to supervene. The treatment may be palliative or radical. The former consists in ablution with cold water every night and morning, the retention of lint behind the coi-ona, dipped in the diluted liquor plumbi acetatis, or in a solution of the sulphate or acetate of zinc, an occasional appli- cation of the lunar caustic, in substance or so- lution, regulation of the secretions, and avoid- ance of excesses. If the cuticle is abraded, the black wash, or plain lime water, or a weak solution of the sulphate of zinc will remedy it. The ulcers to which I have already alluded, should be lightly touched every second day with the nitrate of silver, while the black wash may be constantly applied to them. To the management of warts, it is unneces- sary at present to advert. It must be owned, that these means are far from effectual. While they are perseveringly used the complaint is kept in abeyance ; but, if they are neglected, it generally reappears. The least excess lights it up ; venereal inter- course will most probably be followed by it; excoriations are constantly occurring, and the annoyance is great. The only radical treatment is circumcision, or the division of prepuce. The result of the latter operation is eversion of its inner layer, and complete exposure of the glans. The mucous membrane is no longer retained in a moist and heated state. Exposed to the air, and to contact with the clothes, the epithelium thickens, abrasions are not so easily occasioned, warts are not generated, and the liability to the action of the venereal poison is very materially diminished. The operation is a very successful one ; and in cases which have lasted for any length of time, circumcision, or division, is the only remedy to which confidence can be attached. If the patient is willing to submit to circum- cision, this is, if possible, more effectual than division of the prepuce. But it is also more severe, and I have found few who were willing- to submit to it. In the majority of cases, it is really unnecessary, the mere division of the prepuce answering the purpose completely. But if the foreskin is very long and narrow, circumcision is undoubtedly preferable. Yet, even in this case, division of the prepuce com- monly does well enough, and the flaps of inte- gument that depend on either side, are ulti- mately so absorbed as to leave but little, if any unsightliness of the organ. (Henry James Johnson.') BALSAM OF COPAIBA, a species of turpentine, which is obtained by perforations made on the copaifera officinalis. Its action on the mucous membranes, more particularly those of the urinary organs, have caused it to