854 CRYSTALLINE BODY. soft exterior part of the lens is sometimes seen to ooze out in the form of a semi-opaque flock. The wound of the capsule may unite and the opaque lens remain; but when, by reason of its extent, the wound does not close, the lens is gradually dissolved, and disappears, as after the operation for cataract by division. In such a case the injury is both bane and antidote. The wound of the eye, of which that of the crystalline is merely a part, is usually followed by an attack of internal inflammation, some- times very severe and destructive. This may take place even after needle operations for cataract, in which the wound is as simple as possible. The membrane of the aqueous hu- mour and the iris are, in the least complicated cases, the parts commonly most affected ; and the consequence is, effusion of lymph into the pupil. (6.) Dislocations of the Crystalline.—Some- times a wound of the capsule is followed by dislocation of the- lens, an accident which oc- sionally happens during needle operations for cataract. The capsule may also be burst by a blow, and the lens be forced out of its situation. The extent to which the crystalline is re- moved from its place has been found to vary in different instances. It may be merely so far separated from its connexions, as to press the iris forward, and thus obliterate the pos- terior chamber and diminish more or less the anterior, or it may be entirely dislocated into the anterior chamber. Cases again have been met with in which the lens has escaped through a breach in the cornea, from a blow, or, having been forced through a laceration in the sclerotica, has been found lying underneath the conjunctiva. The capsule may accompany the dislocated lens ; but this will seldom be the case in a previously healthy eye, because the con- nexions of the capsule are everywhere so close. But it sometimes happens, that the connexions of the capsule having gradually become dis- solved in consequence of some slow morbid action in the interior of the eye,—the result, sometimes, of no particular cause, sometimes of a blow previously received—the slightest concussion is sufficient to cause dislocation of both it and the lens. In such a case, as a dissolved state of the vitreous humour is a frequent concomitant change, the dislocated crystalline may fall back into it, or through the pupil into the anterior chamber. Some- times the connexions of the crystalline not being wholly broken up, it remains in situ, but is tremulous ; or it is retained at some part of its circumference merely, and there moves as a door on its hinges. A dislocated crystalline very generally becomes opaque, but not always; for in- stances are related, not only of a lens and its capsule, but also a lens alone, being dislo- cated into the anterior chamber, and remain- ing there for some time without losing trans- parency. It generally happens in those cases, in which the connexions of the crystalline are slowly dissolved, that opacity also takes place. Sometimes the lens is wholly or in part ab- sorbed, and the capsule, thickened and opaque, alone remains. This is called cataracta cystica ; and, as it is seen bobbing up and down, or floating in the dissolved vitreous humour, the epithets tremulous or natatalis are sometimes superadded. A cystic cataract may occasion- ally fall through the pupil into the anterior chamber, and again slip back.—See farther on this subject the Article Cataract. Very often during needle operations for cataract, the crystalline, from its bonds of connexion having become much weakened, falls down into the dissolved vitreous humour on the first touch, and when extraction has been attempted in a similar state of eye, the lens, instead of coming out, has sunk down behind the iris. Treatment. — Wounds of the crystalline body are not of themselves the immediate subject of treatment, but it is the internal inflammation, which is so apt to result, that re- quires to be carefully attended to. A dis- located lens is frequently the cause of keep- ing up inflammation, and ought to be extract- ed ; and this, even though there should be no irritation at the time, if from its hardness it is not likely to be absorbed; because, acting as a foreign body, it is apt sooner or later to give rise to inflammatory action. Mr. Barton, of Manchester, adopts this practice even in punctured wounds of the capsule, without dis- location, in order to obviate the capsular cataract and contracted pupil, which are so commonly the effects of such an injury. The propriety of removing a lens forced out of the eyeball through a rent in its coats, and lying under the conjunctiva, is obvious. The degree of vision preserved after in- jury of the lens will depend, of course, on the state of the other parts of the eye; but to enter into the discussion of which would be out of place here. Inflammation of the Crystalline body. This is, in general, a chronic disease, and the symptoms are by no means strongly marked. From the connexions of the crystalline, it seldom happens that inflammation is confined to it alone, but it will generally be found that other parts of the eye are more or less impli- cated ; sometimes both walls of the capsule are inflamed at the same time, but not unfre- quently one is affected independently of the other ; this is not surprising considering that the anterior and posterior walls of the capsule are connected with different parts of the eye, and derive their vascular supply from different sources ; a fact, which, on the other hand, ex- plains how different parts of the eye should be sympathetically affected in inflammation of the anterior wall of the capsule, from those affected in inflammation of the posterior wall. Thus, whilst it is the choroid, iris, and ciliary body which arc most affected along with the