6,37 CANCER, PATHOLOGY OF. p. 658.) When the fracture is of the former description, crepitation will either be wholly absent or ill marked; in the latter case this sign is producible in the ordinary way. When a cancerous patient suffers persistently, or pretty constantly, from pain in a particular spot in the course of a bone, the occurrence of such fracture is to be apprehended; but such local pain is not a constant forerunner of the accident, nor necessarily followed by it. The. pain has been mistaken by patients for rheumatism ; and this error has not unfre- quently been shared by the medical attendant1. In not a few cases the occurrence of fracture has manifestly hastened the fatal issue of the disease. Certain writers have described loss of the faculty of smell, imperfect vision, and other morbid conditions of the senses, as character- istic of this form of cachexia: more correct observation has disproved their assertions. In the preceding sketch we have endea- voured to describe the most common type of cancerous cachexia ; but perfect uniformity is not to be looked for here more than in any other combination of pathological actions. Thus, fever may be altogether wanting, or in- stead of wearing the hectic character, manifest itself simply in acceleration of the pulse and heat of skin after paroxysms of pain of more than ordinary severity. In rare instances, the fre- quency of the pulse diminishes with the ad- vancement of the disease. A symptom which, in some subjects, acquires such intensity as to divert their attention from the local affection altogether, is pain, either of a fixed or erratic kind, in one or more distant parts of the frame : this usually exists in the course of the more important nerves of the extremities. M. Andral remarks, that in cases of cancer in the brain, the trunk and extremities sometimes become the seat of sensations, simulating nervous or rheumatic pains ; in other instances the skin is exceedingly sensitive, in others deprived of all sensibility. The occurrence of similar suffering, in subjects dying from mammary or uterine cancer, may have sometimes depended on im- plication of the brain in the disease. Again, emaciation is not of constant occurrence ; and even the peculiar straw-coloured tinge of the skin may not exist. The appetite too may be preserved. But enough of these exceptional conditions,—numerous other varieties of which may be found noted in published cases. It may in general terms be stated that the cachectic symptoms do not make their appear- ance until an advanced stage of the disease; so general was the belief at one period in the uniform truth of this position, that the progno- sis and treatment were in a great measure guided by the absence or presence and degree of intensity of the cachexia. Here was, how- ever, a grave practical error; for as the ex- perience of accurate observers has proved ; J. cancerous growths may, in their earliest 1 Salter, in Med. Chir. Trans, vol. xv. p. 186. S. Cooper, in idem, vol. xvii. p. 51, stage, even before induration of the lymphatic glands has taken place, produce such general functional derangement as is indicative of the most severe form of cachexia1 ; 2. cases in which the whole anterior surface of one side of the chest, or the vagina and the major portion of the uterus were destroyed by cancerous ulce- rations, have been known to be accompanied with comparatively slight general disturbance (Breschet) ; 3. patients have occasionally to the last preserved their appetite and flesh, and been able to attend with more or less close- ness to their ordinary business (Bayle); in other words, the disease has terminated fatally without the establishment of cachectic symp- toms. If we consult the works of writers who have touched upon the question, we shall find that they, almost without exception, no matter to what school they belong, regard a modified state of the blood as the cause of the cachectic symptoms. While some, however, advance the opinion as an hypothesis based on many probabilities, others announce it as an ascer- tained fact: among the latter is M. Cruveil- hier. This pathologist, considering the can- cerous cachexia and diathesis as one and the same thing, explains the occurrence of both on the principle of venous transmission :— hence the existence of either involves that of the other2. In this confusion of diathesis and cachexia the Parisian pathologist is joined by Muller. Yet that the distinction between the two is not a scholastic refinement, but actually exists in nature, is rendered clear even by the examination of the present question. In fact, no regular relation subsists between the in- tensity of the cachexia and the number of organs secondarily affected; cancer of the uterus, which habitually gives rise to most in- tense general reaction, rarely induces, as has been stated, extensive secondary formation ; nor is it exceedingly uncommon to find nume- rous organs affected in subjects who have suf- fered to a slight amount only from cachectic symptoms. The necessary inference from these facts seems to be that the diathesis and the cachexia are produced in different modes; and as we have seen that strong probabilities argue in favour of the production of the former by cancerous impregnation of the ve- nous blood, we cannot do otherwise than re- ject the agency of this in respect of the cachexia. Yet it must be confessed, that until an extended investigation into the condition 1 This fact shows the fallacy of an hypothesis of Velpeau, that the cachexia only occurs in cases of softening of internal or ulceration of external carci- noma. 2 M. Cruveilhier in one part of his work (Livrais. xxv. Rectum, p. 3.) states his belief that the cancerous cachexia depends less on the disease itself than on the liannorrhages with which it is accompanied ;—a curious notion from a pathologist professing the general doctrine of the disease, explained in a previous page, for it is almost tantamount to saying that an effect is increased by the removal of its cause. Independently of this, however, it is incorrect, for the cachexia sometimes exists where hsemorrhage has never occurred.