EAR, AND HEARING, DISEASES OF. 29 to the sounds produced. The air perhaps does not at first penetrate at all, or it does so only in a small quantity, and with a sound such as takes place in blowing the nose. If the passage be free and the mucus in consi- derable quantity, a distinct gurgling is heard. After the air has entered freely, the patient perhaps feels the ear clearer and lighter, with a relief from noises, and in favourable cases an im- mediate and marked improvement in hearing. One ear only may be affected. More usu- ally both suffer, but one is always worse than the other. Prognosis.—It has been long known that by making a forced expiration with the nose and mouth closed, deafness is in some cases considerably relieved, if not removed. It is in recent cases of simple muculent obstruc- tion of the Eustachian tubes and tympanic ca- vities that this takes place. If the obstruction be of some standing, such an event does not so readily ensue, but that more or less im- provement may be obtained there are many cases to prove ; among others, one related by Dr. Sims, in the Memoirs of the Medical So- ciety of London, in which forcing the breath into the Eustachian tube, with the nose and mouth closed, proved successful after the deafness had continued for more than a year. If the hearing be improved, though not to any great extent, by merely forcing the breath through the Eustachian tubes into the tym- panic cavities, it is in general a sign promising farther advantage from the air-douche, or at least warranting its employment. Treatment.—Acute catarrhal inflammation of the middle ear may require leeches or cup- ping behind the ear and the exhibition of dia- phoretics. But suppose all inflammatory symp- toms have disappeared, and there be nothing but the muculent obstruction of the middle ear, recourse may be at once had to the air- douche. If the muculent obstruction be kept up by chronic catarrhal inflammation of the mucous membrane of the Eustachian tube and tym- panum, this must become the particular object of treatment, but as chronic inflammation of the middle ear is very frequently accompa- nied by a similar state of the throat and nasal cavities on the one hand and of the auditory passage on the other, attention must be directed to the cure of the latter before any good can be done to the former. As the digestive organs are at the same time very generally disordered, and the skin in an un- healthy state, it will often be found necessary to put the patient under the use of some gen- tle mercurial, such as hydrargyrum cum creta, and laxatives. As a remedy which has some- times effected marked benefit in scrofulous constitutions, the iodide of potassium deserves to be particularly noted. The disulphate of quina and other tonics will also be found use- ful in fulfilling many indications, but one of the most powerful remedies under such cir- cumstances is change of climate, regulated by the circumstances of the case. The treatment more particularly directed to the local affection, consists in counter-irri- tation to the nape of the neck, premised, if need be, by the application of leeches in the vicinity of the ear and to the nostrils. The throat may be pencilled with a solution of lunar caustic (gr. x—1j.), and the auditory passage treated by ablution with water, and the use of a wash of a solution of the bichlor- ide of mercury (gr. j—ij—Jviij.), or of the acetate of lead, and whatever else may be in- dicated, as already laid down in a former part of this article. When the obstacle to the entrance of the air depends simply on a gluing together of the collapsed walls of the Eustachian tube by thickened mucus, the passage is readily ren- dered pervious by the air-douche, and any mucus accumulated in the tympanum gradu- ally dispersed by the same means. The mode of application of the air-douche has been al- ready described ; here I would only recal to mind the precaution to give free room for the regurgitation of the air, both where the ca- theter is inserted into the mouth of the Eus- tachian tube and where the nozzle of the tube of the air-press is inserted into the dilated end of the catheter. Where there is a simple gluing together of the walls of the Eustachian tube by thickened mucus, a sound is heard like a little air get- ting into the tympanum, first in a fine whist- ling stream, and then with some gurgling. As the passage becomes freer, there is a rushing and then a gurgling sound. Where there is a clogged state of the tym- panic cavity from accumulated mucus, but the Eustachian tube still pervious, more or less gurgling is at once produced by the entrance of the air. When all mucus is dispersed, and the Eustachian tube and cavity of the tympa- num perfectly free, there is a rushing and howling sound. If both ears be affected, they should be subjected to the action of the air-douche on alternate days. The application is to be re- peated as long as improvement goes on, or until the hearing be restored to the natural standard. The number of applications re- quired for each ear may, even in favourable cases, be ten or more. As is the freedom with which the air pe- netrates, so is the improvement of hearing, provided of course the muculent obstruction be not complicated with some other affection. In regard to the air-douche as a means of treatment, I would repeat that all that can be effected by it is the gradual dispersion of any accumulated mucus which may exist in the middle ear, or the rendering pervious the Eustachian tube, the walls of which have been glued together by thickened mucus, and relieving the membrana tympani from the pressure of the external air. It has been said that the accumulation of mucus may be kept up by a chronic inflamma- tion of the membrane lining the Eustachian tube and cavity of the tympanum still sub-