64 ECTROPIUM. and gaseous accumulation, in producing dis- placement, examples have been already given, especially under the heads Detrusion, Expan- sion, and Bulging. 7. The change produced under certain circumstances in the form of the thorax, in consequence of the removal of pleu- ritic effusion, by absorption, or otherwise, has already been referred to. 8. The depression of the thoracic parietes, induced by the atrophy which attends tuberculization of the pulmonary tissue, has also been mentioned. c. In distant parts. Displacement of the commissures of the lips, and distortion of the face, in consequence of cerebral haemorrhage, exemplifies this mode of origin of ectopiae; as does also the permanent retroflexion of the lower extremities in certain affections of the medulla spinalis. C. Extrinsic violence and abnormal organic conditions combined. Such are the causes, in the majority of instances, of that most common of displacements—intestinal hernia. An or- ganic predisposition exists in laxity of the parts connected with the natural canals in the walls of the abdomen ; which laxity—in itself insufficient to induce displacement—facilitates its occurrence under the influence of violent muscular efforts, &c. A general character of each class of dis- placement, is its proneness to associate itself with another or others. Thus deviation of axis and heterupsia frequently co-exist with dislocation; obliquity, protrusion, and pro- lapsus of the uterus, with complete inversion; deviation of axis of the heart with lateral detrusion. The effects of displacements are immediate and remote. The immediate are commonly obstructions of function, either in the dis- placed part, in those mechanically affected by its displacement, or more rarely in distant parts ; occasionally destruction of the con- nexion subsisting between different tissues, &c. The remote effects comprise very im- portant alterations of tissue, as exemplified in the formation of pseudo-articulations, and in the transformations which occur in hernial sacs, &c.; and further, in the establishment of new relations and connexions, &c. In a practical point of view, displacements are divisible into two very distinct orders: those in which the ectopia constitutes the entire existing lesion, and those in which it is merely a more or less important epiphenome- non of seme other affection. To the first order belong the majority of dislocations and hernias, and the greater number of uterine displacements : to the second, among others, the entire class Detrusion. The importance of the latter, from the light they very fre- quently throw upon the diagnosis of various internal conditions has appeared sufficiently, we trust, to arrest attention, even from the few hints on the subject contained among the foregoing observations. It must be observed, however, that it is not always the nature of a given ectopia which assigns it its place in either of these orders, but rather the nature of its causes. So true is this, that there are few ectopias which may not, under varying circumstances, belong to either one or the other category. Thus luxation, which belongs to the first when the effect of violence, is referrible to the second when spontaneous or by detrusion. Numerous analogous instances will suggest themselves upon the least reflection. (Walter Hayle Walshe.') ECTROPIUM ({»c, out,rpeTru),I turn’), ever- sion of the eyelids. Fr. Rcnversemcnt de la pau- piere en dehors. Germ. Das Plarauge, oder die Auswartsstiilpung der Augenlieder. The eyelid is drawn away from the eyeball, its conjunc- tival surface is more or less turned out, and its ciliary margin more or less displaced, downwards or upwards, according as the lower or upper eyelid is the seat of the ectropium. The eyeball, being thus deprived of its palpebral covering, is exposed to con- stant irritation, by which a chronic conjunc- tivitis is kept up, weakening the eye and giving rise to specks and vascularity of the cornea ; in some bad cases, repeated attacks of acute inflammation lead at last to destruc- tion of the eyeball. The conjunctiva of the everted eyelid presents more or less of a villous or sarcomatous appearance ; and when it is the lower eyelid which is the seat of the disease, there is usually stillicidium lacryma- rum. To these accompaniments of ectro- pium are to be added a distressing sensation of cold in the eye, and very disagreeable dis- figurement. Ectropium occurs in different degrees, and depends on different causes. It more fre- quently affects the lower than the upper eye- lid. Sometimes both are everted. Ectropium from excoriation and contraction of the skin of the eyelid, together with a thickened and sarcomatous state of the conjunctiva. This, the simplest and most common form of ectropium, is usually the result of some chronic inflammation of the conjunctiva or of ophthalmia tarsi. It is almost always the lower eyelid which is the seat of this form of the disease. The skin of the eye- lid and cheek, excoriated by the discharge constantly dropping from the eye, becomes contracted ; the consequence of which is, that the eyelid is drawn downwards and at the same time everted ; this displacement from the contraction of the skin, being favoured by a general relaxed state of the tarsus and the detruding action of the thickened and sarco- matous conjunctiva. In old persons, the relaxation of the tarsus and the thickened and sarcomatous state of the conjunctiva, seem to operate more fre- quently in the production of eversion than any contraction of the skin. In consequence of chronic catarrhal ophthalmia, the angles of the eyelids being eroded, the tarsus relaxed, and the conjunctiva at the same time rendered