CEPHALHEMATOMA. 762 Incision of the swelling and evacuation of its contents have been very extensively prac- tised. The time and manner of its perform- ance are variously determined. Michaelis always operated immediately on the appear- ance of the tumour, a practice in which he was almost always followed by Von Siebold. We have mentioned the opinions of Gooch and Naegele in regard of this point ; the former nevertheless acquaints us that the sur- geons of the Foundling Hospital were in the habit of opening the swelling at once, if it ex- hibited no particular appearance of disease ; they made an incision the whole length of the tumour, laid soft dry lint under the edges of the wound to facilitate the discharge of the extravasated blood, after having pressed out as much as they could without bruising the parts, and then applied a compress and easy bandage. Respecting the mode of opening the tumour, we find Klein and Carus contenting themselves with puncturing with a lancet, others incising the tumour from one border to the other, and Levert recommending a crucial division : a single incision of moderate size is decidedly the most advisable. Siebold re- commends the scalp to be carefully shaved previously ; F. B. Osiander, on the contrary, attaches much importance to the preservation of the hair on the tumour, believing that it strengthens and protects the wound: this is probably a point of little real consequence. Denudation of the bones of the skull, as M. Valleix remarks, is by no means dangerous in new-born infants ; the extreme vitality of the parts preserves them from necrosis and ex- foliation. Should, however, such separation of bone take place, and suppuration arise in the wound, these complications must be managed on ordinary principles. Simple as this operation is, it is not altogether devoid of danger : in two cases, one of them related by Smellie, the other by M. Valleix, death ensued from the division of some vessel or vessels of the scalp'. If troublesome haemorrhage were thus produced, the bleeding vessels should be looked for in the lips of the incision and tied. The general pressure advisable for promoting the adhesion of the pericranium may be best effected by a close cap with a broad chin- band not too tightly applied. Dr. Burchard’s experience supplies a fair estimate of the comparative excellence of the different modes of treatment : with the ex- ception, perhaps, of those opened with the knife, the tumours allowed to run their own course terminated most rapidly and favourably : unless where symptoms denoting cerebral compression arise in an infant labouring under cephalhaematoma, the use of the knife should, as it appears to us, be altogether avoided. (6.) Extra-pericranial.—Laborious parturi- tion,rude application oftheforceps&c.theordi- 1 We have been recently informed by Professor Naegele that be once observed a similar case ; this distinguished practitioner now leaves the affection wholly to nature, contenting himself with using some insignificant external applications. nary causes of sero-sanguineous oedema, some- times occasion rupture of one or more vessels of moderate calibre, and consequently accu- mulation of pure blood. The tumour thus formed is evidently from its seat and nature entitled to the name cephalhcematorna; and as the effusion has been noticed both underneath and upon the fascia of the scalp,itis eithers«6or super-aponeurotic. As this tumour is the direct effect of violence, we need not here (see Con- tusion, Hematoma) consider it otherwise than in respect of the diagnosis between it and the species already described. If the effusion be recognized immediately after birth, the distinction is, according to Naegele and P. Dubois, easily made ; in fact, the extrava- sation under or upon the fascia almost always takes place together with or immediately after the appearance of common cadematous swell- ing ; the evidences of difficult labour are visi- ble in lividity of the skin, &c. ; the tumour is painful and ill-circumscribed, for the blood is at first infiltrated through the areola of the cellular membrane, and not collected into a single mass. When the walls of these areola have been broken down by the pressure of the infiltrated fluid, the distinction becomes much more difficult ; the blood then forms a tumour, more or less accurately circumscribed, fluc- tuating, and surrounded with an elevated bor- der ; these different characters are less marked, it is true, than in the sub-pericranial affection, but mere differences of degree will oftentimes not authorize a positive opinion. Should the effusion extend over a suture, the fair infer- ence is, for the reason already stated, that it is not sub-pericranial. § 2. Intra-Cranial Cephalhematoma. The symptoms of intra-cranial, super-me- ningeal (Valleix) or internal (Hore) cephal- hematoma, in which the blood is effused be- tween the dura mater and skull, are exemplified by the following case observed by Here. An infant, born after a prompt and easy labour, remained after birth in a state of stupor, from which he was at first roused with great diffi- culty, and eventually could not be roused at all. The pupils were much dilated, the infant did not take the breast, and died comatose on the fourth day. A quantity of black coagulated blood appeared on the external surface of the right parietal bone, which was neither eroded nor discoloured, but the seat of a linear per- foration or fissure extending almost entirely round the external collection of blood. The corresponding part of the dura mater was separated from the cranium by a bloody tumour, about the size of a pigeon’s egg, pro- ducing marked depression and pultaceous softening of the adjacent brain. The bone was here very thin, its internal surface eroded and apparently even partially destroyed close to the sagittal suture. Hence it appears, as might have been expected, that the symptoms of this affection are those of compression of the brain. Internal is almost invariably accompanied