662 CANCER. ance in the form of a tumour externally: with the signs and symptoms of the latter may be united (in order to avoid minute divisions) those produced from the outset by cranial and subpericranial cancer—care being taken to point out the more important peculiarities characteristic of the latter. (a.) Before perforation.—Like intra-cranial tumours generally, meningeal cancer usually produces no symptoms in its early stage : the pressure undergone by the brain is attended with no interruption of its functions, either on account of the slow growth of the tumour, or of the cerebral atrophy which proceeds pari passu with the enlargement of the adventitious mass. At a variable period, however, accord- ing to a well-known peculiarity in cerebral pathology, the compression produces manifest effects, and these may occur so suddenly and assume such a character as to simulate the symptoms of an attack of cerebral haemorrhage. Thus, sudden loss of senses, followed by hemi- phlegia, has been noted as an effect of intra- cranial cancer, or rather of the anatomical changes to which this gives rise ; but in other cases—and these, fortunately for the facilities of diagnosis, would appear to be of much more common occurrence—the phenomena of compression arise gradually, the powers of feeling and motility in the limbs diminish by almost imperceptible degrees and are finally lost, while the intellectual faculties undergo a chronic process of stultification merging in complete idiotcy ; in some instances the pa- tient seems to be in a state of intellectual torpor only, and is capable of being roused into imperfect mental manifestation, as for instance, the returning monosyllabic answers to simple questions. In another class of cases the foreign body acts as an irritant, and pro- duces some one of a variety of lesions an- nounced by the supervention of severe pain and convulsive movements in the paralyzed limbs, or epileptiform attacks, occurring with greater or less frequency and violence. If these symptoms have been preceded by-per- sistent cephalalgia in a fixed spot, the exist- ence of intra-cranial tumour is rendered still more likely. The irritative changes thus pro- duced—inflammation of the membranes, serous effusion under the cerebral arachnoid, or into the ventricles, common or capillary apoplexy, and white pultaceous or straw-coloured gela- tiniform softening of the surrounding brain— are stated by Cruveilhier to be the most ordi- nary immediate causes of death in these cases : the cancerous nature of the tumour rarely, if ever, leads to the fatal result. But masses of fibrous, calcareous, or of tuberculous matter may give rise to a similar train of phenomena ; the question arises whe- ther there are any means whereby the can- cerous nature of the growth may be dis- tinguished. As M. Louis has proved that, with the rarest exceptions, the presence of tuberculous matter in any organ involves, in subjects ageil upwards of fifteen, its existence in the lungs, careful examination of the physical 1 condition of those organs may lead to a deter- mination of the nature of the cranial formation. If they are healthy, the latter cannot be tuber- culous ; if they are tuberculous, the chances are not only directly in favour of the intra- cranial tumour being composed of the same material, but against its being cancerous ; for we have shown that the coexistence of car- cinoma and tubercle in the same organism is extremely rare. But for the further con- sideration of these points we must refer the reader to works on medical pathology. The seat of the tumour, admitting the fact of its existence to be established, is another problem of most difficult solution : the al- leged locality of the cephalalgia is often a faithless guide' ; and a tumour confined to one side of the cranium may, from affecting both hemispheres, give rise to functional disturbance of both lateral divisions of the body. When some particular sense is paralyzed, we have an aid in localizing the disease ; yet over-confidence in the positive or negative information thus obtainable may easily betray us into error. Professor Berard2 has related a case in which the olfactory nerves were destroyed by the pressure of a tumour, and yet the patient, according to the positive affirmation of the occupants of the beds adjoining his, enjoyed to the last the faculty of smell. Although not established with sufficient certainty to obviate all scepticism as to the reality of its occurrence, this fact was seized with avidity by M. Magendie as a triumphant argument for his doctrine of the functions of the fifth pair of nerves. In Graff’s case there was a peculiar sensation of cold experienced in the throat and stomach, so that the hottest food seemed iced: a tumour was detected pressing on the medulla oblongata, the glosso-pharyngeal and vagus nerves. In a case of intra-cranial carcinoma destroying the trunk of the fifth nerve, and related by Mr. Bishop3, a variety of sym- ptoms, depending upon the lesion of that im- portant trunk, arose, and might unquestionably 1 M A. Severinus (De Med. Efficac. lib. i. part. 2. cap. 3.) refers to the case of a Spanish nobleman afflicted with violent headache which had resisted every kind of treatment; the sufferer consented to the application of the trepan over the scat of the pain. The operation brought into view a fungous ex- crescence, the destruction of which cured the cephal- algia permanently. lint these hold proceedings have not always been crowned with similar success. Mr. S. Cooper “ saw Mr. Ramsden trepan a man for a mere fixed pain in one part of the head, on the suppo- sition that there was a tumour under the bone; hut no tumour was found, and the operation caused in- flammation of the dura mater and proved fatal.” The subject of Lauth’s case, to which allusion has already been made, had been trepanned before death in the situa- tion of an obstinate local headache with which he had been tormented : the cancerous growth was discovered in the diametrically opposite part of the skull. On the other hand Wepfcr relates an example of success- ful issue in a case like that of Severinus. (Obs. Med. Praet. l)e affect. Cap. Obs. 48. p. 119.) 2 Theses de Paris, No. 23, 1826. 3 Med. Gaz. vol. xvii. p. 387. 1836.