BRONCHOTOMY. 521 tution whore necessary apparatus is kept, unless it were on the immediate spot. Supposing the most fortunate combination of circumstances to occur, however, and the surgeon knew himself to be dextrous in pass- ing the tube, he should do so. But if he finds that, for want of bellows or from any other cause, he cannot perform insufflation in a satisfactory manner, he should instantly open the trachea. On the ground then of the imminent danger of delay, and the rapidity and safety with which bronchotomy may be performed, it will be in the great majority of cases, perhaps, by far the best plan of treatment, as it affords the surgeon the means of immediately in- flating the lungs on the spot with his own breath. Mr. Porter says he has frequently proved that this is sufficiently pure, and per- haps the warmth with which it is impregnated may in some respects prove beneficial. As the inflation may have to be continued for some time, some person should be dispatched for a pair of bellows, which may be introduced into the opening so soon as they arrive, or the surgeon be wearied, and the other means found useful in cases of suspended animation assidu- ously employed. Leroy’s instrument as described in the arti- cle Asphyxia would greatly facilitate the passage of the elastic tube, and the bellows sketched in the same article are well adapted to prevent the ill effects which must neces- sarily arise from too forcible insufflation. They are ingenious and useful, and should of course be employed, if at hand, and in order ; but it must not be forgotten that in the great ma- jority of cases the surgeon will be at a distance from any such apparatus, and will be con- strained to trust to the most homely utensils. See Asthyxia. 2. From hanging, or strangulation. The same remarks will apply to these cases as to those of drowning. Bronchotomy is equally indicated, but is not so likely to prove successful, as there is very often sufficient congestion of the brain to cause death. Mr. Porter relates two cases where the persons were taken down while still breathing, but they died ; and dissection showed only a vas- cular and congested condition of the brain. 3. From breathing an impure air. This case will be very similar to the last, except that here the danger is produced more slowly, and arises from the presence of the noxious gas in the air cells. On this account a pair of bellows should be introduced, so soon as the windpipe is opened, as it is probable the breath of the operator would not be suffi- ciently pure. I do not see that this last pro- position becomes any valid objection to bron- chotomy, for a pair of bellows could in almost every instance be readily procured, and if there was any delay in getting them, the sur- geon might inflate the lungs with his own breath till they arrived. 4. By immersion in carbonic acid gas. As spasm of the glottis produces the danger in these cases, the lungs not being necessarily affected, this would seem the case of all others for bronchotomy. It is certainly not a case for the tubes, for the spasm of the glottis has been shown to continue for twenty minutes after apparent death. This would render the bellows to the nostril useless, and cause so much delay, and some danger, in the force necessary to pass a tube, that bronchotomy is very far preferable, and should be immediately performed. But it has not been followed by such success as might be expected d priori. Mr. Porter says, “ even in experimenting on animals, I have never seen an instance of re- covery after immersion in pure carbonic acid gas.” Perhaps cold affusion should be com- bined with it, for it is remarkable, that dogs asphyxiated in the Grotto del cane at Naples, are restored by throwing them into a neigh- bouring pond. 5. In the asphyxia of new born children. Bronchotomy is inapplicable, and uncalled for. Even if the surgeon have not a trachea tube, or a catheter, the lungs can be inflated by the child’s mouth, its nostrils being closed. Having thus considered the circumstances under which bronchotomy may be required, I now proceed to treat on the mode of per- forming the operation. Provided the operation be properly per- formed, and the anatomy of the part normal, nothing of importance is likely to be injured. The carotid arteries, jugular veins, pneumo- gastric, descendens noni, recurrent, laryngeal, and sympathetic nerves, all lie on either side of the trachea. The large portions of the thyroid gland (lateral lobes) are also placed on the side of the trachea and larynx ; and though the connecting slip (middle lobe) from its close connection to the second, third, and fourth rings, and its situation on the front of the trachea, is almost always divided, yet its vessels are so small that they seldom pour out a drachm of blood. From the importance of the parts, then, on either side of the trachea, we learn that the incision should be most carefully commenced and continued exactly in the median line : for a very slight departure from this course might wound one of the lateral lobes of the thyroid gland, which would certainly be followed by profuse haemorrhage. That the danger to the vessels and nerves is not merely imaginary, is proved by Desault’s statement, that he knew a case where the carotid artery was wounded. From the situation of the subclavian vein also, just behind the upper part of the manubrium of the sternum, it is evident that the incision should not extend to within about half an inch of that bone. And this also appears from the fact, that a large branch of the external jugular vein passes down on each side, and joins its fellow just above the top of the sternum. The distribution of the vessels, and the situation of the thyroid gland, however, are not always regular. The arteria innominata