12 EAR, AND HEARING, DISEASES OF. consisted of cerumen mixed with scales of epi- dermis, hairs, and earthy matter. Pain in the ears recurred several times afterwards, but was always relieved by the application of leeches and stupes in the neighbourhood. Accumulations to a small extent were re- moved several times. Latterly no new ones have formed, and all tenderness and swelling of the auditory passages have ceased under the daily application of a solution of nitrate of silver by means of a hair-pencil. 4th. As Dr. Kramer has remarked, collec- tions of ear-wax such as the above arc not in general attended with ulceration of the walls of the auditory passage or membrana tympani, though there is frequently to be observed some unusual degree of vascularity. But in cases of eruptions and abrasion of the skin of the auditory passage, and ulceration of the mem- brana tympani, accumulations are met with in the passages, consisting of epidermic scales, dried matter, and morbid wax of a pale colour. Such accumulations are, however, in general not very solid. In one case I found the mat- ter incrusted with common salt, solutions of which had been frequently used as injections into the ear. On the removal of the accumulated wax by syringing, hearing is instantaneously restored, the noises in the ear cease, and the patient feels his head free from the heaviness and confusion he formerly experienced,—provided the accumulation be uncomplicated with any other affection of the organ. The treatment consists simply in the re- moval of the stopper of ear-wax by syringing the auditory passage with tepid water. The operation may require to be repeated a se- cond or third time, before the whole accumu- lation is brought away. Very frequently after one or two syringetuls of water have been thrown in, the stopper of wax may be re- moved in a mass by means of a curette. After this, the passage is to be carefully examined with the assistance of the speculum. If it presents nothing wrong, all the dressing that will be required is a little cotton wool imbibed with sweet oil; but if pain should still exist, and if the walls of the passage be found very red, the application of leeches, followed up by a small blister or tartar-emetic ointment plaister to the nape of the neck, on the side next the affected ear, may be advisable. After this the auditory passage may be pencilled with tincture of myrrh, or vinum opii, or a solution of nitrate of silver. The dropping in of a solution of j—iij gr. of acetate of lead in 3j. of distilled water, will frequently be the most that is required. Inflammation of the tegumentary lining of the auditory passage and ceruminous glands.—This is in many respects analogous to that disease of the eye called ophthalmia tarsi. In both, the seat of the affection is a tegumentary tis- sue in the transition from skin to mucous membrane; in the one connected with the ceruminous glands, and in the other with the Meibomian follicles. Like ophthalmia tarsi. the disease under consideration is not always primary. Both acknowledge the same causes, and both commence more frequently in child- hood than adult age. The subjects of them present the marks of the scrofulous constitu- tion. The primary disease on which these affec- tions of the eye and ear generally depend, is that form of dyspepsia described by Dr. Todd', under the name of Strumous, and considered by him peculiarly characteristic of the strumous or tuberculous disposition. If the child affected with strumous dyspepsia, says Sir James Clark, “ be neglected or im- properly treated, the skin becomes harsh and dry, the abdomen tumid, the extremities waste, the eyelids are swollen and inflamed, and puriform discharges occur from the ears ; the glands of the neck become enlarged, and cutaneous eruptions not unfrequently ap- pear2.” There is at first heat and irritation, such as to induce the patient to use an ear- pick, or thrust his fingers into his ears, and rub them to allay the itching. This may be at first attended with a pleasurable sensation, but it soon grows into pain, which becomes more and more severe, and is particularly aggravated by pressure. On examination, the auditory passage is found contracted from swelling of its lining integument, which is at the same time more or less red, or but slightly livid. The above symptoms, perhaps arising from cold, may terminate in exfoliation of the epidermis and increased secretion of wax, as described in the preceding section. The case, however, may not turn out so favourably, but in certain dyscrasies degene- rate into a chronic inflammation with dis- charge. The disease may be excited by fo- reign bodies in the ear, or acrid applications ; it is also a frequent consequence of the spread- ing of eruptive diseases to the part. In such cases the lining integument becomes covered with crusts, formed by the matter of burst ves- icles or pustules, from underneath which a stinking ichor flows. The discharge, which varies in quantity, may consist of a thin serum, or be a thick yellowish muco-purulent matter. It is often very stinking and acrid. On exa- mination, the skin of the auditory passage is found spongy, superficially abraded, vascular, and altogether presenting somewhat the cha- racters of mucous membranes. Sometimes it bleeds readily on being touched, in which case the discharge is occasionally mixed with blood. The cerumen, when any is present, is light coloured and vitiated, like a mixture of wax and matter. There is always considerable dulness of hearing, but buzzing in the ears may or may not be present. Both ears generally suffer, but one less than the other. This disease is very obstinate. It occa- 1 Cyclopaedia of Practical Medicine, art. Indi- gestion. 5 On the Sanative Influence of Climate, &c. 3rd Ed. p. 86. London, 1841.