17 ABORTION. congestion of the uterus, as Desormeaux re- marks, occurring at the return of the menstrual eriod deserves particular notice under this ead. During tne prevalence of cholera in Paris in 1832, abortion, from the death of the fietus was of frequent occurrence. Habit is also not unfrcquently a cause of abortion. Thus it is observed to occur at the same period of pregnancy in the same woman, ten or twenty times consecutively, without any other influence apparent in its production, than that of the molimen hamorrhagieum, or debility. In these instances, the health of the woman suffers, and the prospect of a family is not unfrequently destroyed. There are some women who never arrive at the full time, and others who seem to have an hereditary tendency to abortion. It has been said, that there may be a congenital state of the uterus which prevents it from enlarging to the proper extent during pregnancy, and that the irritation produced by the foetus will cause abortion. Schluz speaks of a lady who aborted twenty-two times at the third month'. Stoltz knew two women each of whom had aborted seven times2. I have known three similar examples. Schurigius attended a woman who aborted, or rather had a premature labour, at the eighth month after her second parturition, and did not arrive at the full term until her twelfth accouchement3. Burton mentions the case of a woman who had aborted eight times at the third month, and who was led by means of small bleedings to the full term with her ninth conception4. I have known a patient who aborted five times in fifteen months from her marriage, at the expiration of which period she died of phthisis. M. Velpeau cites many similar cases of abortion, and mentions one of a young woman who procured the expulsion of the ovum by criminal means several times, and who, after marriage, could never be brought to the natural term of utero-gesta- tion. Abortion is also caused by certain mechani- cal operations in cases of deformed pelvis, where premature labour is required, when a full-grown infant could not be born at the termination of utero-gestation. Criminal abor- tion is often attempted in large cities and populous towns, and generally destroys the woman by peritonitis or metritis. Cases have occurred in which sharp instruments were passed into the substance of the womb, pro- ducing fatal hysteritis and peritonitis. M. Velpeau attended a woman who had profuse haemorrhage caused by attempts of the same kind. She suffered most excruciating pain in the pelvis for two months ; abortion did not take place, but a large ulcer of the neck of the womb was produced. Girard of Lyons cites an analogous case, in which the sufferings of the unfortunate patient were so great that she committed suicide5. M. Velpeau states, that ‘ Lacroix, Thes., 1812. s Dcubel, Thes., 1834. Section 4. c. 1. 4 Art of Midwifery. 5 Journ. Gen., t. iv. VOL. I. criminal abortion is very common in Paris, and that he had been called to four cases in two months. One woman died of peritonitis, another was affected with cancer, the third with haemorrhage which could not be arrested, and the fourth was finally cured. Signs of Abortion.—The phenomena of abor- tion will vary according to the period of preg- nancy at which it occurs, and the nature of the cause which produces it. In the first two months of pregnancy, it often happens that the ovum which is of a small size is expelled entire without pain or haemorrhage. This happens in lax habits, in whom the orifice of the womb is soft, flaccid, and very dilatable. In most cases, however, there are pains, ac- companied by more or less haemorrhage, with clots in which the ovum is enveloped and often escapes unobserved. This occurs when the membranes rupture, and the foetus escapes detached from the placenta. In such cases, women frequently suppose they had a cata- menial obstruction, and that the painful dis- charge is only menstrual: but the menstrual fluid does not coagulate in its normal state, unless blood is effused with it during the con- gested state of the uterus,—termed the mens- trual molimen,—which precedes and accom- panies the uterine evacuation. In proportion as pregnancy is advanced, the size of the foetus will be augmented, the pains and haemorrhage which accompany abortions will be more and more considerable; and it has been long remarked, that this haemorrhage is much more profuse, than that which accom- panies natural labour at the termination of pregnancy. It is on this account that abor- tions are much more injurious to health than natural labours, at the full term of utero-gesta- tion. It is also well known that a woman who has had six or eight abortions, accompanied by profuse haemorrhage, will have much worse health than another who has had as many natural labours, at the full time. In fact, the haemorrhage has been so great in many cases, as to destroy life, and in some recent cases, transfusion alone could preserve it. Mr. Ingleby relates a case in which six quarts of blood were lost ; and Mr. Mainwright, of Liverpool, lately saved a woman by transfu- sion. When abortion is produced by chronic diseases or causes that act gradually, it is gene- rally accompanied by the following symptoms : horripilations, or rigors, succeeded by heat of skin, thirst, nausea, loss of appetite, pains in the loins, lassitude, lipothymia, palpitations, frequent pulse, coldness of the extremities, depression of spirits, sadness, pallor, tumefac- tion or lividity of the eyelids, loss of brilliancy of the eyes, fetidity of the breath ; sense of sinking, and feebleness in the abdomen, of cold about the pubis, of weight about the vulva and anus ; diminution and flaceidity of the mammae, the nipples sometimes discharging a serosity ; evacuation of a sanguineous or sanious fluid from the vagina, sometimes grumous and coagulated; decrease of the C