BURNS AND SCALDS. 541 sensation and voluntary motion, are the prin- cipal diagnostic marks. We would briefly notice the fact, that in every case of burn at- tended with eschar, the work of inflammatory elimination, as Dupuytren called it, does not attain its acme before the ninth day, after which period it begins to flag. The declen- sion has been termed the stadium decrementi. With each succeeding day from that date, the limits of the mischief become manifest, for reasons formerly assigned. The popular belief, that burns advance progressively for nine days, is founded on misinterpretation of the above circumstance. As has been already said, it is in many cases difficult, nay even impossible, to define with accuracy a priori, the amount of lesion. Be- cause, while the parts on which the caloric has expended its force have undergone tho- rough disorganization, the adjacent textures have suffered more or less ; and, though not altogether deprived of vitality, have never- theless been rendered incapable of supporting the subsequent inflammatory action. They are thus compelled to participate sooner or later in the process of destruction. Hence, it is of the last importance in medico-legal in- quiries concerning burns, from the third degree and upwards, to defer giving any decided opinion until such time as the eschar shall have been sufficiently detached, for ascer- taining accurately the full extent of injury sustained. Sixth degree. The complete charring, inci- neration, or conversion into a carbonaceous mass of an entire extremity of the human body, is in itself sufficiently characteristic of this grade. It may, however, be added, that the loss of weight, the shrivelling, the fragi- lity, and the sonorousness when struck, will remove all uncertainty as to the amount of lesion. The eschar is more or less perpendi- cular to the axis of the burnt part, and in- cludes all the organic components. Upon its separation, a sore similar to that which results from amputation is left behind. To this degree, M. Dupuytren referred the combustion named spontaneous, “ if,” says he, “ death may be considered in the light of a maladya doctrine hardly admissible, as it involves a confusion in thought, and a sole- cism in language. While the above distinguished surgeon car- ried further than any preceding writer the subdivision of the shades of lesion in ques- tion, he did not overlook the practical diffi- culties thence arising. On the contrary, he guards us against expecting to find each grade accurately defined, or presenting uni- formly the series of phenomena just detailed. Indeed, if we except the erythematous de- gree, it is a rare thing to meet with any one of the others wholly by itself. They are commonly combined, exhibiting every shade of complication. Thus, commencing with the most profound eschar penetrating to the very hone, and invading the entire thickness of a member, as wc approach the surface and examine the confines, we see it merging by hardly appreciable gradations, till nothing more than the rete mucosum or epidermis is involved. The principal eschar is again surrounded by smaller ones; these in their turn bordered with a zone of erythema, studded with phlyctenae. General Effects.—Each of the successive degrees that has occupied us, according to its extent or situation, may either constitute a purely local affection, or determine consti- tutional disturbance, which may bring the life of the patient more or less into jeopardy. These general effects are either primary or secondary, and have with much propriety been referred to three principal periods in the course of the affection :— 1. Those appertaining to the first stage, contemporary with the date of the injury, or speedily consecutive thereto, are the result of shocks imparted to the nervous system, manifested in sympathetic depression of the general system, or diminution or suppression of the functions of the skin from destruction of a large extent of surface. 2. Those belonging to the second stage, consist of the sympathetic internal inflamma- tion consequent upon the general reaction, and are generally developed about the third or fourth day. 3. The third series comprises the effects of suppuration, exhaustion, and gangrene, which are felt at a more advanced period. The powers of the constitution being ex- hausted by the efforts it has made, are no longer equal to the accomplishment of a pro- tracted cure. Where the lesion is very severe, and occupies a large extent of surface, the sud- denness and intensity of the pain may pro- duce upon the sensorial and nervous centres an impression so profound, as instantaneously to overpower animal and organic life. The irritability of the whole nervous system is at once annihilated, and immediate death is the result. When such is the case, it would ap- pear as if the blood, under the influence of the excessive stimulation of the heart and arteries, had endeavoured to force its way through every pore upon the internal sur- faces. This may serve to illustrate, in a re- markable degree, the mode in which nature operates, when internal parts, in a state of inflammation, are relieved by vesicatories, and other means of counter-irritation. The following are the appearances de- tected on cadaveric inspection, according to Dupuytren. The mucous membrane of the alimentary canal exhibits, in the great proportion of subjects dead in the midst of flames, or soon after being withdrawn, red patches, of a greater or less extent, and of a very vivid hue; blood has been seen ex- haled into the cavity of the stomach, as well as into that of the intestines, and mixed with the mucus, and other fluid contents of these viscera. The brain is found gorged with blood ; the serosity of the ventricles ac-