419 ASPHYXIA. nicating, by means of a trachea and larynx, with the pharynx, and through it with the nasal and oral cavities. The hollow respira- tory vesicles in reptiles present many varie- ties. In some they are in the form of elon- gated sacs, as in serpents; in others, as the crocodile, they are subdivided, to a great de- gree of minuteness, by internal partitions. In birds and mammalia, whose vital manifesta- tions are more dependent on the energy of the respiratory process, the air-cells are much more minutely subdivided, and the amount of surface over which the blood is exposed to the influence of the atmosphere is, in conse- quence, much greater than in reptiles. The lungs of birds, moreover, communicate with membranous sacs situated in the chest and abdomen, which again are prolonged into most of their hollow bones ; so that in those birds whose bones are thus permeated by air, though the trachea be tied, the animal will still continue to respire by an opening made in the humerus. In man the organs of respiration consist of the lungs, which communicate with the atmo- spheric air by the trachea. Besides the sub- divisions of this air-tube, they are also com- posed of the ramifications of the pulmonary artery, which carry to them, from the right heart, the venous or “black blood,” to be brought into approximation with the atrno- I spheric air; and of the ramifications of the pulmonary veins which return the arterialized blood from them to the left heart. In com- mon with the other parts of the body, the [ lungs receive blood-vessels for their own sup- port, nerves, lymphatics, and connecting cel- lular tissue. They are likewise covered with a serous envelope (the pleura), which is re- flected from them on the inner aspect of the cavity in which they are contained (the tho- rax). The thorax consists of active and passive agents of locomotion, by which the respiratory movements are effected, and its capacity alter- nately enlarged and diminished. The passive agents are the dorsal vertebrae, the ribs and sternum, and their connecting cartilages and ligaments. The active agents are the respi- ratory muscles destined for the elevation and depression of the ribs and sternum ; a perfect muscular diaphragm, separating the thorax from the abdomen ; the abdominal, and the sphincter, and the levatores ani muscles. The lungs, although the sole agents for car- rying out the essential chemical process of respiration, are so dependent on the respira- tory cavity in which they are placed, that if its movements be suspended, the atmospheric air is no longer transmitted to the air-cells. Mayow not inaptly compared the respiratory organs to a pair of bellows, containing an empty bladder, the neck of which, by being adapted to that of the bellows, should admit air on drawing its sides asunder. But although this is the case as regards the lungs and thorax in the act of inspiration, the former following the latter in its movements, yet, in the act of expiration, the lungs themselves, by their elastic property, perform a part in the pro- cess. On the other hand, the respiratory muscles, for the due performance of their part in respiration, require a direct communication with the cerebro-spinal axis, and this is ef- fected by the system of respiratory nerves. In addition to a special apparatus for respi- ration, in most, if not in all animals, the skin also performs the part of a respiratory organ. After the discovery of the production of car- bonic acid by the lungs, enquiries were insti- tuted to ascertain whether the same occur- rence did not take place at the surface of the body; the only difference between the ap- proximation of the air and blood in the lungs and in the skin being the different thickness of the membrane by which they are sepa- rated. The experiments of Millet, Lavoisier, Jurine, Cruikshank, Abernethy, Ellis, Macken- zie, &c., go to prove that when air has been kept in contact with the skin, carbonic acid is generated ; whilst Priestly, Klapp, and Gor- don were unable to detect, in their experi- ments, the slightest change. Whether cuta- neous respiration takes place or not in the human subject, the “ vivifying influence” of the atmospheric air on the skin in the reco- very of persons asphyxiated, is admitted on all hands, and will be again referred to in alluding to Edwards’s enquiries. CAUSES OF ASPHYXIA. From the review just taken of the object of respiration, and of the organs by which the function is effected in man, it is obvious that asphyxia may be induced in a variety of ways, all of which, however, may be reduced to two general heads ; 1st, causes which affect, di- rectly or indirectly, the respiratory apparatus itself; and 2nd, causes which affect the air, so as to render it unfit when respired to carry out the essential chemical object of respira- tion. In the first place, the mechanism of the thorax in relation to the bones and cartilages which enter into its formation, may be so interfered with as to impede or totally sus- pend its movements ; the respiratory muscles destined to produce those movements being at the same time in a condition, as regards their integrity and their connexion with the cerebro-spinal axis, fitted to do so. Examples of suspending the actions of the thorax in this manner are furnished us by the modes of pu- nishment some nations occasionally adopt to- wards their prisoners, by burying them up to the neck in earth firmly pressed around them. In these cases the pressure of the surrounding- earth upon the thoracic parietes being greater than the respiratory muscles can overcome, the motions of the chest are suspended, the atmo- spheric air no longer enters the lungs, and as- phyxia takes place. A black, from the fine form of his chest and well-marked muscles, had been selected as an academic model. It was wished to obtain a cast of his body ; but this being attempted at one operation, and in one entire E e 2