97 EMPYEMA. discovered in a woman, who was so com- pletely free from thoracic suffering’, that the chest had not been examined. Such cases {latent pleurisy) are now familiar to the pro- fession, and furnish some of the most valuable illustrations of the importance of physical diagnosis: to the consideration of this latter part of the subject we now proceed. Physical Signs. I. Dry period. While the anatomical change is limited to simple desic- cation of surface, inspection shows the move- ments of the affected to be less free than those of the healthy side. By percussion no deviation from the normal state is discover- able ; but by auscultation a diminution in the intensity and duration of both respiratory sounds, unattended with change in their other characters, is discovered. This diminution is an effect of deficient expansion of the chest only, is ordinarily proportional to the pain, and is similarly induced in pleurodynia. A slight, superficial, grazing sound, arising from the collision of the dry surfaces, may some- times be detected. II. Period of plastic exudation. The graz- ing sound just mentioned is now converted into one of rubbing or grating, varying in in- tensity with the density and tenacity of the membranous matter and the degree of expan- sion of the lung (hence producible sometimes by a deep inspiration, when absent in ordinary breathing) ; coexisting with both respiratory acts, and commonly most marked in inspira- tion ; interrupted and jerking ; usually most marked at the postero-inferior angle of the scapula and below this. According to an ob- servation of M. Fournet it would appear that the grating variety of sound is produced by the granular form of deposit, and arises espe- cially when this is unusually dense. When the friction phenomena are strongly marked, a distinct sensation, more easily imagined than described, is conveyed to the hand, when laid over the seat of their production : in rare cases this is recognised by the patient himself. A slight degree of dulness under percussion may be detected opposite the morbid deposition, especially if this be abun- dant. A trifling diminution of phonic vibra- tion, too, is already to be established, accord- ing to some writers, in the same situation : this, we confess, we have not been able to discover under the alleged circumstances'. The condition of the respiratory murmurs does not notably differ from that already de- scribed ; the visible motions of the chest are obstructed as before ; its form remains un- altered. III. Period of effusion. The physical signs vary with the amount of effused fluid. While 1 Thoracic vibration produced by speaking or cough- ing unquestionably furnishes the least trustworthy among the physical signs of thoracic disease. The very discrepancy shown by a writer in the British and Foreign Medical Review (vol. ix. p. 331, 1840) to exist in the statements of the most practised auscul- tators respecting its conditions in various diseases, gives sufficient proof of this. VOL. II. the liquid accumulated is moderate in quan- tity, this is found (where the physical princi- ples carefully considered by M. Woillez would prepare us to find it) equally spread over the entire pulmonary surface (laminar effusion). This disposition of the fluid will continue so long as the aspiration of the lung (a property to which we have made lengthened allusion in a former article ; see Emphysema, p. 80) exercises a more effectual influence upon the position of the fluid, than its own gravity. With the continuance of effusion the force of gravity becomes predominant, and the fluid accumulates at the most depending part of the chest (gravitating effusion). The dura- tion of the first stage is of course mainly re- gulated by the activity of effusion ; but is also to a less degree affected by the degree of elastic contractility of the lung. a. Laminar effusion. While a thin stratum of fluid of eq|ual or very nearly equal thickness in all directions is spread over the entire sur- face, the sound on percussion is less clear than natural, but is not completely dull: the loss of sonorousness is proportionally equal in all parts of the surface ; there is therefore no precise limitation between a dull and a clear sounding part ; nor are the position or other characters of the dull sound capable of being altered by changing the position of the patient. There is as yet no alteration in the form of the chest; the movements of the affected side usually continue impeded as before, though they sometimes recover their former freedom, when pain has subsided simultaneously with ef- fusion. Phonic vibration is diminished, and the sensation communicated to the hand by the friction of false membranes has disappeared. The inspiratory and expiratory murmurs lose further in point of duration, without under- going any notable change of character. Fric- tion phenomena cease to be audible ; the voice resounds more than natural, and with a particular character approaching in most in- stances to or actually constituting aegophony : this morbid resonance is generally but un- equally diffused. Fig. 229. Fig. 229. Diagram exhibiting (he relations of the lung and fluid in laminar effusion. b. Gravitating effusion. When liquid has collected in sufficient abundance to overcome by its gravity the other physical force acting