169 ERYSIPELAS. and fever ensue, it is almost certain that the two tables are affected, and that purulent effusion has taken place between the internal table and the dura mater. In such cases the only alternative is the application of the trepan, which in the hands of Dupuytren not only verified the accuracy of the diagnosis, but procured the recovery of the patients. When phlegmonous erysipelas attacks the eyelids, early transverse incisions will save the loss of integument, and prevent consecutive ectro- pium and purulent diffusion into the orbit. The danger of subsequent deformity should render us reserved in making incisions on the face unless unequivocally indicated. Erysipelas of the trunk or extremities pre- sents few special curative indications. The chief point is to avoid adhesions of the labia pudendi. Erratic Erysipelas may invest any of the forms of fever attendant upon the vague or stationary kind, and should be treated accord- ingly. Observation having shown that this form of erysipelas is often connected with a rhehmatic and gouty diathesis, the use of col- chicum preparations has been suggested, and Mr. Bullock has employed them with advan- tage in this as well as other forms of the dis- ease '. I had a case of this nature affecting both lower extremities, and irradiating distinctly from the ankles and knees, which had resisted for several days the use of other means, but gave way rapidly to the administration of the vinegar of colchicum associated with mag- nesia, Epsom salts, and senna. Should erysipelas assume a true intermittent character, or coincide with intermittent fever or neuralgia, the sulphate of quinine, con- taining almost all the antiperiodic principle of the bark, should be had recourse to. If however the attacks of the erysipelas should coincide with the exacerbations of gastritis, as has been seen, it need hardly be men- tioned that this means would become inju- rious. In Infantile Erysipelas all means, rational and irrational, have been generally found in- effectual, and favourable terminations are more referable to spontaneous and uncomputed results than attributable to the treatment em- ployed. The little patient should be promptly removed from the influence of the causes, (impure air, bad nourishment, irritations of the funis, &c.) that may have contributed to the development of the disease, and it should be restricted to a less frequent use of the breast of a healthy nurse, and in the intervals any light emollient infusion should be given as drink. The intestinal secretions should be regulated by the mildest means, never forget- ting that peritonitis is a constant complica- tion of the grievous forms of this disease. At the same time a blister should be applied on the seat of the affection, and after two hours should be removed and replaced by a warm 1 Gazette Med. 1834, and London Med. Quarterly Review, vol. ii. emollient cataplasm, and thus the eruption should be pursued whatever seat it may oc- cupy. Dr. Guersent, whose opinion on this matter is entitled to the highest considera- tion, has assured me that those are the means internal and external that he has found to be most useful. Doctor Du vers recommends a thin paper to be interposed between the skin and the blister, which should be left on some hours, and followed by the application of warm bread poultices ; but he considers mercurial inunctions to be a more effectual remedy ', and Dr. Schott, he says, has found a solution of a grain of corrosive sublimate in an ounce of distilled water to be equally beneficial. Dr. Charles Meigs has published several cases of cure by applications of Ken- tish’s liniment repeated several times a day 1 2. Osterleben effected a solitary cure in six cases by the combined use of the gummous mercury of Plenk and sulphate of quinine taken inter- nally, and of daily tepid baths followed by mercurial frictions 3. When gangrene takes place, the means recommended for the ady- namic form of erysipelas must be resorted to, with the modifications necessitated by the tender age and strength of the patient. Dr. Baron, whose opinion has been matured by long experience, says that “ blood-letting, emollient fomentations, resolutions, baths, mercurial inunctions, blisters, compression, all appeared to him to be without efficacy, and if, in exceptional cases, the termination turned out favourably, it was more to be attributed to an unusual benignity of the disease than to the treatment employed In Senile Erysipelas the local and constitu- tional debility is never to be overlooked, and if depletion is called for by the extent of re- action, it should be practised with a sparing hand, and generally speaking the local ab- straction of blood will best fulfil every pur- pose. Dr. Babington says he has had con- stant success with patients of this class, by associating numerous small punctures, as re- commended by Dr. Dobson, with bark and stimulants 5. Gentle cordial medicines, a light nourishing food, and the immobility and horizontal position of the limb, if it be the seat of the affection, and methodical compres- sion of oedema exist, will often suffice to fulfil every indication. Bibliography.—As I have already exceeded the limits assigned to this article I shall simply refer for the bibliographical history of erysipelas to the various works adverted to in the course of the article, in many of which copious bibliographies on this subject may be found. (J. C. Donellan.') ESCHAR (from «rxaPa< a crust, or scab). The slough artificially produced by the appli- cation of caustics or escharotics to a living part. The mortified patch is readily distin- 1 Op. cit. 5 Op. cit. 3 Op. cit. * Chomel, Op. cit. 5 La Clinique des I Idpi tanx ct de la Yille, tome i. no. 84.