73 ALVINE CONCRETION. fixed position, and distensibility of which, favour its stoppage. In these cases, there is not only the impossibility of voiding the excre- ments, but sometimes the urine itself is re- tained. The belly is meteorized, the colic pains and vomiting are severe; sometimes there is haemorrhage, or oozing of purulent matter from the anus ; if no remission of the symptoms can be procured, enteritis, peritoni- tis, and gangrene, supervene. Others have watery stools, and discharge with them a quantity of viscid ropy mucus, or blood, after which they are much relieved. Some patients who for years have been afflicted by this disorder, suffer much from a burning sensation at the pit of the stomach, and some discharge their stools involuntarily. Upon relaxing the parietes of the abdomen, a very hard, painful, globular tumour may generally be felt at the origin, or in the course of the large intestines ; and very often at the sigmoid flexure of the colon. The concretion is generally immoveable within the intestine ; but often appears to change its place in consequence of the change of place of the intestine which contains il. Hence the change appears greatest where the concretion is in the small intestines, or arch of the colon, which, from the length of mesen- tery, or meso-colon, are very moveable. The digestive powers being in the progress of the disease much impaired, the patient becomes very weak and much emaciated; until at length from the continuance of the disease, he is reduced to a skeleton. The pulse, in the earlier stages, is but little affected. When the disease has been of some duration, the pain in the bowels is constant. Concretions have, in some cases, remained for years before they have been dislodged. When they are very large, and lodged, either in the transverse arch, or sigmoid flexure of the colon, they may be distinctly perceived. When the concretion passes into the rectum, it creates excruciating pain in the region of the pelvis and fundament, especially when the patient goes to stool, and the extraneous body may then be perceived during the effort of straining at stool, an inch or two above the anus ; it wall also be visible when the patient is sitting, or when the constipation has lasted several days. In the more fortunate cases, the concretion, after exciting severe nausea and vomiting, has been ejected along with the contents of the stomach, or discharged by slool, or extracted from the rectum. It is not a little remarkable, considering the bulk of some of these concre- tions, that the intestinal canal is not, more frequently, completely obstructed. In the progress, however, of these cases the func- tions of the intestines become more and more deranged, and so much obstructed, that laxa- tives by the mouth, or clysters, are necessary to procure a passage. Tumours occur in the tract of the alimen- tary canal from a variety of causes, the precise nature of which, if not ascertained, may lead to the most baneful consequences. I shall, therefore, enumerate some of the causes of those tumours which may be mistaken for concretions. Amongst those which are most readily mis- taken for alvine concretions, are masses of in- durated faeces. Tumours of the omentum, or mesentery, incipient dropsy of the ovaries, anormal position of one of the kidneys, and scirrhous pylorus. The following cases are submitted with a view to elucidate this point of diagnosis :— Case 1.—I was desired by the late Dr. Kilgour of Musselburgh, to visit a man of seventy-three years of age, much emaciated, suffering very acute pain in the abdomen, which was much increased on pressure, and who had had no passage from his bowels for several days. His pulse wras quick and hard. The relations informed us that he had been for many years subject to costiveness and sto- mach complaint. Upon examining the abdo- men, several hard substances were distinctly perceived by the touch, a little above the left ilium ; these hard substances, it was stated, had been distinctly felt by Mr. Cunningham, surgeon, at Tranent, and also by themselves, for eight or ten years. Venesection, and large doses of purgatives were employed, but in vain ; the patient died in six days after I visited him. His body was opened by my assistant, Mr. Fyfe, in the presence of Dr. Kilgour and my- self. All the viscera of the abdomen were found in a sound state, excepting the sigmoid flexure of the colon, on which there were several black spots ; it contained a mass, which, on being minutely examined, proved to be faeces, very much indurated, and collected into a number of hard round tu- mours. Case 2.—I was desired by Dr. James An- derson to visit a woman between thirty and forty years of age, who had had for three years a hard tumour about the size of a large orange, resting on the right ilium. The tu- mour, on pressure, could be made to change its place, but the attempt always gave a good deal of pain. She had had two children since this tumour had been first observed. The functions of the alimentary canal were not in the slightest degree deranged, and hence I was led to impute the swelling to incipient dropsy of the ovarium. James G. Stirling, aged eight years, Oct. 24th, 1813,—about four months ago was attacked with pleurisy, for which the usual remedies were had recourse to, with success ; immediately after this, there was accidently discovered in the right iliac region, a circum- scribed tumour of very considerable magnitude, which gave slight uneasiness on handling it. The tumour seemed somewhat moveable, and was at times more distinctly felt, than at others. A course of laxatives was adminis- tered without any effect on the tumour ; mer- cury was also used to a considerable extent, both externally and internally, with no effect on the tumour. After the mercury had been some time given up, the bowels being regular,