CALCULUS. 583 the alkalis administered cautiously, would give the greatest chance of relief. When it occurs in conjunction with an irritable state of the system, however, an opposite course should be pursued. In the case in which the writer detected cystine in the urine, the indi- vidual was of an excitable habit of body, and alkaline medicines, though they relieved the acidity of stomach under which he often la- boured, never failed to aggravate the general constitutional malady. The muriatic acid, on the contrary, united with light tonics and ano- dynes, especially the hyoscyamus, always proved serviceable. Dr. Wollaston called cystine by the name of cystic oxide, from its resembling certain metallic oxides in being alike soluble in acids and alkalis. Cystine is in fact distinguished chemically by its solubility in the dilute nitric, muriatic, sulphuric, oxalic, and phosphoric acids, as also in caustic ammonia, potash and soda, and in the carbonates of the two latter alkalis. But the acetic, tartaric, and citric acids, and the carbonate of ammonia, not only do not take it up, but even throw it down from its states of solution. Before the blow- pipe it emits a very fetid and characteristic odour, and is entirely consumed. When we find a concretion that dissolves indifferently in dilute muriatic acid and in a solution of carbonate of potash, we may be certain that we have a specimen of cystine under exami- nation. Renal calculi of the phosphates.—When we take into account the numerous cases in which we observe the urine depositing the ammonia- phosphate of magnesia and the phosphate of lime, we cannot but be surprised that the phosphates in the shape of gravel should so seldom be encountered. Although among the most common of the matters composing the outer layers of calculi that have remained long within the body, it is quite certain that scarcely any substance more rareljr constitutes the nucleus of these concretions than the triple phosphate of ammonia and magnesia or the phosphates of lime. The crystals of the triple phosphate, indeed, at all times show but little disposition to cohere so as to form a cluster. Even when forming on the lower surface of a urinary film they always drop away and subside to the bottom singly. The phosphate of lime too precipitated from a state of solution shows itself as one of those dry unplastic powders which are very little apt to coalesce into a mass. Besides, with the phos- phatic state of the urine we have generally so free an action of the kidney, that any parti- cles accidentally deposited, are almost cer- tainly washed away immediately, as shown by the whey-like, semi-opalescent urine which so commonly accompanies the diathesis. Far- ther, the phosphatic diathesis cannot in gene- ral well be held the sign of an original mor- bid state of the kidney ; it is very commonly the consequence and termination of other faulty conditions of that organ ; when deposi- tion docs take place during its existence, this most commonly happens upon nuclei already provided. Nevertheless, exaggerated states of the phosphatic diathesis are occasionally followed by depositions within the kidney, either of the ammonia-phosphate of magnesia, of the phosphate of lime, or of these tw o salts simul- taneously. In the first instance the concre- tion consists of an aggregation of very wrhite shining crystals of a cubical shape, with some- thing of a pearly lustre ; in the second, of small rounded masses of a white or dirty white colour, smooth or polished on the surface, and of a dull chalky fracture; and in the third, of a mixture of glistering particles, and a lustre- less amorphous powder. The ammonia-magnesian phosphatic gravel is readily distinguished by the odour of am- monia it gives off when digested in liquor po- tassae, and by its ready solubility in dilute nitric acid, from which it is again precipitated in its characteristic w'hite glistening crystals on the addition of an alkali. Under the blow- pipe this substance exhales the odour of am- monia, and at length melts with difficulty. The phosphate of lime, again, is distinguished chemically by its infusibility before the flame of the blow-pipe. It dissolves readily in mu- riatic acid, however, without effervescence, and is precipitated again in the form of an im- palpable white powder on the addition of an alkali. These two substances often occur as- sociated, probably not in chemical combina- tion, but simply intermixed. We are not aware that they have in this state been detected composing renal concretions or calculous nu- clei. But they certainly form the outer lami- nae of a very considerable proportion of all the calculi, especially of all the large calculi that exist. The compound is chemically dis- tinguished by its ready fusibility before the blow-pipe. It also dissolves completely in dilute muriatic acid. From this solution the lime is precipitated by the addition of oxalate of ammonia; the magnesia afterwards falls before solution of ammonia. i Renal fibrinous concretions.-—Calculous de- positions in the kidney, and the passage of these substances along the ureter, often give rise to the discharge of blood with the urine. Sometimes the blood comes away in the shape of small clots with gritty matter adhering to their surface. What has been called the fibri- nous calculus is probably formed from one of these clots detained in the urinary passages, and washed in a considerable measure free from the colouring matter. Various other pathological states of the urinary organs are attended with the effusion of blood, and one of these may give rise to the clot which be- comes condensed, and washed, and moulded into the form of a calculus. The fibrinous calculus described by Dr. Marcet, resembled yellow wax in colour and consistence. Its structure was fibrous, and it was somewhat elastic. Its chemical qualities were those of fibrine : it was soluble in caustic potash, from which it could be precipitated by the addition.