610 CANCER, TREATMENT OF. The following propositions appear to em- brace such facts as are established respecting the curability of carcinoma by art. 1. There is no existing evidence to show that carcinoma of an internal organ has ever been cured. 2. Cancer has never been removed by medi- cinal agents alone. 3. Morbid productions possessing the anatomical and pathological character of scirrhus have been removed with the knife, and no return of the disease been observed for a number of years, and occa- sionally during the entire course of a life prolonged beyond the expectation of life in healthy individuals at the period of removal. 4. Although it cannot be doubted that many of the tumours referred to by M. Recamier were not really composed of that tissue; yet it seems impossible to affirm this of all of them : it would follow then that carcinoma has in rare instances been cured by compres- sion, aided by other external and internal remedies. 5. The probabilities of effecting a cure vary -with the species of cancer. There are few authentic instances on record of permanent recovery after the ablation of encephaloid 1 ; successful removal of scirrhus is of more frequent occurrence, and the ten- dency of colloid to reproduction, although Velpeau states it to be extreme, is probably lower than of the other varieties. 6. The earlier the morbid mass is removed the stronger are the chances of ultimate recovery : Scarpa’s three successful operations were performed within the first three months; of twenty-seven schirri removed by Flajani within the first month of their formation two only returned2. 7. Encysted cancer, provided the cyst be removed, is less lia- ble to return than non-encysted. 8. The chances of success diminish out of all propor- tion with each repetition of the operation. 9. It has been stated that the removal of cancer in some parts is more prone to be attended with relapse than in others: mam- mary cancer is instanced as an example of the former, osseous of the latter. We are disposed to acquiesce in this notion, but it requires to be proved numerically ; and the fact that under the term osteo-sarcoma have been included growths in bone of almost every description, fibrous, cartilaginous, &c., as well as the truly cancerous, renders it exceedingly probable, if not certain, that the supposed immunity of bone in this respect, has been exaggerated. 10. It is indubitable that local, and probably distant, reproduction frequently depends on some of the diseased growth being left behind: some microscopical ob- 1 Mr. Travers has never known a patient survive longer than four years after the removal of encepha- loid. Scarpa lays it down as a law that ablation of this growth invariably hastens death. We shall have occasion to refer to cases distinctly disproving the general truth of the Italian’s doctrine ; and Griife “ has often extirpated fungus liacmatodes without any relapse having occurred for 16, 18, or 20 years.” Gaz. Med. de Paris, p. 170. Mars, 1835. 2 But were fhese all examples of true scirrhus? Vid. Collezione di Osscrv. e Riflcssioni, t. i. p. 277. servations illustrating this point may be seen at p. 650. The inference is, that were ab- lation perfect, recoveries would be more common. It would in theory appear that the removal of a tumour cannot in itself cure the disease, as the local formation is but a symptom of a general vice of the economy ; but this only proves that the local removal acts, however inexplicable this may be, as a sort of alterative on the constitution, or that a change co-arises spontaneously in the general state of the sys- tem. This may be rendered clearer by an illus- tration. Phthisis, a disease of which the consti- tutional nature is not disputed, is well ascer- tained to have disappeared symptomatically after the expulsion of tuberculous matter, and contraction of cavities, or after the conver- sion of that matter into inorganic salts. Again, all surgeons are acquainted with the regene- ration, as it were, of the individual, which sometimes follows the removal of a joint, affected with the same tuberculous or scrofu- lous disease. Prophylaxis. — The idea of a prophylactic treatment involves the possibility of recog- nising the tendency to the disease before the actual formation of carcinomatous matter. In the present state of the science this, as has been stated already, cannot be done ; nevertheless M. Littre considers it possible that in some cases, when a suspicious state of health exists in persons springing from a cancerous father or mother, the development of the disease might be warded off by a change of climate, of habit, of diet, by the use of mineral waters, &c. The same precautions might advanta- geously be enforced in the case of the im- mediate relatives of persons decidedly cancer- ous. And, further, as certain morbid forma- '1 tions are prone to become cancerous from the development of scirrhus, encephaloid, or col- loid in their substance, the removal of the former may be looked on as prophylactic against the latter. Internal remedies.—Among substances pre- sumed to act on the disease by altering the condition of the blood, conium has obtained vast celebrity. Originally recommended by Storck in 1761 as an infallible remedy, it is still confided in by some practitioners. Storck employed the extract, and commencing by grain doses increased the quantity to two drachms daily—in fact, until it produced a slight degree of toxic effect. The extraor- dinary exaggeration of Storck was soon made notorious by the inquiries of various experi- mentalists throughout Europe ; yet M. Reca- mier has of late years affirmed that several cases of internal and external cancer have yielded in his hands under the use of this drug. He limits the patient at the same time i to one-third of the ordinary quantity of food, and directs the use of the decoction of sarsa- parilla after each dose of the medicine and as a substitute for water at meals. M. Recamier administers the extract, and ascribes his suc- cess in some measure to the following mode 12