ACUPUNCTURE. 46 needle, that the tenour of his observations will not meet many approvers. For instance, in one case, he ventured to pierce the epigastric region so deeply, that the coats of the stomach were supposed to have been perforated: this was done for the cure of an obstinate cough, and is al- leged to have effected a cure! But, if this be not enough to excite wonder, I am sure the author’s suggestion, to run a long needle into the right ventricle of the heart in cases of asphyxia, must create that sensation.” Yet, though I am far from recommending the practice, it is nevertheless certain, that most of the viscera of the great cavities have been occasionally penetrated in the human subject, without the least inconvenience. Cloquet, Velpeau, and Dantu, have shown that the arteries, nerves, and principal viscera, may be punctured with fine needles, without producing any serious effect. Bretonneau has unhesitatingly introduced needles into the brachial and radial arteries in his own person, and into the brain, heart, lungs, and stomach of puppies, apparently without producing pain, or any perceptible in- jury or inconvenience. The innocuity of acu- puncture may therefore be considered as esta- blished. But so much cannot be said for the certainty of its curative effects. The cases in which it has been most frequently observed to be successful are various painful affections, in- dependent alike of active inflammation, or or- ganic disease ; in muscular and neuralgic rheu- matism, unaccompanied by heat; in sciatica, lumbago, hemicrania, supra-orbital, temporal and facial neuralgies. It has been resorted to in muscular pains arising from strains and con- tusions, cramps, and uterine pains. M. Haime employed it successfully in a case of hiccup, which had long resisted the various usually in- dicated remedies. The general opinion of those who have observed its effects is, that it may be resorted to with prospect of benefit in diseases involving derangement of sensation and motion. M. Trouve, of the Hospital of Caen, in a case of hysteria, accompanied with stiffness and drawing up of the inferior extre- mities, in a young woman, was successful in re- moving, in the space of three hours, the short- ening of the limbs, and, at the same time, the severe pain in the loins, by means of four needles thrust into the lumbar region. Three days after, another attack of hysteria, which threatened, was averted by the introduction of six needles in the cervical region ; the same success was obtained in this case on se- veral subsequent occasions, until the hysteria entirely disappeared. He relates another case in which relief was given in a case of pa- ralysis of seven years’ standing, which was pro- duced by a fall on the back. {Diet, de Med.) Dr. M'Braire, of the London Hospital, has recorded in the Medical Gazette', a case of paralysis of the upper extremities caused by taking cold while the patient was under sali- vation, which was relieved by the use of the needles. Dr. Carraro has made some inge- 1 1831. Vol. vii. p. 607. nious and successful experiments with the needles in the cases of asphyxia of kittens. The animals were plunged in water till all ap- pearance of life became extinct; the action of the heart was restored, and life renewed by passing needles through it. The success attending the application of the needles has, however, been most remark- able in rheumatism. Of a hundred and twenty-nine cases treated by Cloquet, about eighty-five were cured. Of thirty-four pub- lished by others, twenty-eight were cured. Of forty-two cases taken in succession as they stood in the hospital books, thirty were found to have been cured, and tbe remaining twelve were not proper cases for the success of the remedy, there being much heat of the affected parts. Dr. Bache has had a number of similar cases, of which the great majority were cured by acupuncture; but he observed, that it is much tess successful in neural- gia. It is not uncommon to observe the pain of rheumatism or neuralgia shifting its seat on the application of the needles, and yielding entirely on their reapplication in the new situation the pains have shown them- selves. Amongst the means recently proposed to replace the use of ligatures for stopping hae- morrhage, puncturing the arteries with needles has been mentioned, though not with the same degree of confidence, or chance of success, as torsion. Bretonneau found in some instances that the transfixed vessel became blocked up with a coagulum, and finally impervious. M. Velpeau, his distinguished pupil, renewed and extended those observations in 1830, at the end of which year he read a paper on acu- puncture as a means of obliterating the artery in cases of aneurism, before the Academy of Sciences. His object seems to have been to excite inflammation of the coats of the artery by the puncture; while the needle being al- lowed to remain in the vessel, a mechanical obstacle would be presented to the blood, upon which it might readily coagulate. In the experiments made by Velpeau on animals, in all cases in which the needle remained three days, the transfixed artery, he says, was found obliterated. But the depot of fibrin, by which the artery is rendered impervious, is by no means a certain result of the punc- ture, even though the pins be allowed to re- main four days in the vessel. But, supposing it to occur constantly, it would still be a ques- tion whether it was superior to the ligature, as in either case, the vessel must be denuded. If the artery could be transfixed with certainty, without disturbing the parts in which it is em- bedded, it might be entitled to higher consi- deration, as we should thus avoid the danger of making large wounds of the soft parts, in which subsequent inflammation often destroys the expected effect of the best-executed ope- ration. M. Velpeau has not thought proper to make application of acupuncture for the cure of aneurism in his own hospital, a fact which it may not be unfair to take as evidence of his own opinion of its value.