CALCULUS. .)65 cannot fail to observe, especially in that por- tion of the community that subsists by ma- nual labour, that the influence of excessive toil is beginning to be felt about this time ? Exposure to wet and cold has now withered the skin, coarse food has impaired the diges- tive powers, hard labour has blunted the sen- sibilities, and the frame which but a few years before seemed knit to endure for an indeflnite period already shows symptoms of decay. In the professions too, men begin to relax from their undue exertion. The simple meal no longer suffices. A man now begins to dine at his ease, to entertain and be entertained. The stomach is taxed to the performance of unusual duty, and not un- commonly taxed beyond its powers; the blood is fevered by strong drinks of every kind ; the nervous system is excited by the presence of company, &c. &c. The pabulum of lithic acid is furnished to the kidney in abundance, febrile excitement leads this organ to exert its peculiar acidifying powers upon the matters presented to it, and imperfect digestion supplies an acid—all that was wanted to bring about the deposition which now so frequently occurs. These causes are also productive of a posi- tive decrease in the quantity of urine secreted, and thus we have an increase of the saline and acid ingredients of the urine, coinciding with a diminution of the menstruum in which they are carried out of the system. In infancy the depo- sition of lithic acid would unquestionably be more frequent than it is, were it not for the state of copious dilution in which food is then taken. And it happens fortunately, perhaps, that the unnecessarily large quantities of highly nourishing food in which grown men are so prone to indulge, are mostly associated with pretty copious potations of different kinds : good eating craves good drinking, and wine, beer, and tea and coffee, are always swallowed abundantly to allay the fever which heavy meals of highly seasoned animal food never fail to engender. Still the urinary secretion even under these circumstances is rarely found to be regularly in the ratio of the liquid imbibed. Animal food and strong drink seem to have a positive repressing influence on the secreting functions of the kidney. Very little urine is passed for twelve or eighteen hours after a debauch in meat rather than in drink. During all this time the function of the kidney is nearly in abeyance, and the salts of the urine are eliminated suspended rather than dissolved in that fluid. It lias been remarked, too, that carnivorous animals, though they drink water freely, make but very little urine in comparison with the herbivorous tribes, many of which, living on succulent vegetables, rarely drink at all, and yet pass large quantities of urine1. A knowledge of this fact led Dr. Wollaston2 long ago to propose that persons liable to 1 Magcndic, Rech. sur la Gravclle, p. 25. 2 Philos, Trans. 1797. gravel should follow a vegetable regimen ; and Dr. Pearson1 afterwards remarked that the calculous concretions of phytivorous ani- mals never contained lithic acid, and followed Wollaston in recommending vegetable diet. The peasantry of Scotland and Ireland, who live almost entirely on vegetable matters, often of the coarsest kind, and drink nothing but water, actually labour under a kind of diuresis in contrast with their brethren of England, who live on bacon, and cheese, and wheaten bread, and drink little but ale or beer ; and lithic urine and its consequences are rare out of the towns both of Scotland and Ireland. Dyspepsia, or bad digestion, it has been asserted, is the most efficient cause of a lithic state of the urine. The agricultural popula- tion of Scotland suffer much from heart-burn and oppression after eating, yet their urine cannot be said to be lithic. We have more- over proof that something else than simple indigestion is at work in inducing a lithic state of the urine, in the fact, that whilst in the county of Norfolk one case of cal- culus occurs for every 21,000 of the inha- bitants, and ten or twelve operations for stone have for many successive years been annually performed in the Norwich Infirmary, the dis- ease seems to be entirely unknown in the county of Hereford, no patient during more than forty years having been received into the Hereford Infirmary labouring under stone, and no record of the operation of li- thotomy ever having been performed within the bounds of the county being extant2. In Devonshire, too, the disease of stone appears to be very rare. We cannot suppose that the inhabitants of Norfolk are peculiarly or more than usually afflicted with indigestion, and that the natives of Hereford and Devonshire are peculiarly or more than usually exempt from this malady. Peculiar local and atmospheric influences, some of which are appreciable, combined with certain specialities of diet, a very large share of the blame being ascribed to the latter, seem adequate to account for the prevalence of calculus, the consequence of a previous disordered state of the renal function, as an endemic disease in particular districts. Norfolk, for instance, is very much exposed to the piercing wind that blows over England from the east, and this must undoubt- edly affect the skin to a very great degree, and thus influence the function of the kidney. In Norfolk, again, wheaten bread3, hard dumplings, (masses of imperfectly fermented dough mixed with suet,) bacon, and cheese, washed down with thin, hard beer, i. e. a bitter infusion with a modicum of spirit and a considerable admixture of vinegar, consti- 1 Ibid. 1798. 2 Smith in Med. Cliir. Trans, vol. ii. 3 “ An unusually heavy meal of animal food or bread is invariably followed by a deposition of the lithate of ammonia from the urine.” Prout, Inquiry, p. 118.