5 ABDOMEN. upon, under the supposition of their being hernial, and excised, the symptoms have yielded at once ; a circumstance which would seem to show, that of themselves, they do, in some instances, either by their traction on the peritoneum, or, the strangulation of their pe- dicle, give rise to symptoms simulating an incarcerated hernia. The most important of the outlets of the abdomen, possessing high surgical interest in relation to the occurrence of protrusions, are situated between the ilia and pubis, corre- sponding to the lower border of the moveable abdominal wall. The minute description of these openings is reserved for the article Groin. (See also Hernia.) The cutaneous surface of the abdomen pre- sents the same general characters as the skin of other parts of the body. As we have al- ready remarked, it is calculated by its struc- ture, to add strength to, and to favour the free motion of the parts it covers. On the poste- rior region of the abdomen, it is thicker and less sensitive than on the anterior. At the age of puberty, the skin covering the pubis, and the neighbouring parts is furnished with hair. The integuments of the abdomen are subject to all the changes which affect the other structures, in consequence of the varia- tions of volume in the contained organs ; thus, after uterine gestation, and certain diseases of the organs in the abdomen, upon the removal of the cause of distension, the skin having lost in some degree its elasticity, falls into furrows or wrinkles, which assume a transverse direction. The structure and organization of the ab- dominal parietes having been thus rapidly sketched, we may now' make a few observa- tions on the aspect which they collectively present. It has been already stated that the abdomen in front presents to the eye a con- tour of an ovoid form ; but it is difficult to fix its just limits externally, on account of the continuity of the soft parts with those of the thorax : but though indistinct, the frame work nevertheless may be made sufficiently promi- nent, to assist us in dividing the whole into cer- tain portions, to which we shall advert presently. The general form and comparative size of the abdomen to the other cavities of the body varies at the different epochs of life, and the capacity of its cavity seems to bear some re- lation to the quantity and kind of food taken ; hence it is found, that in the infant the cavity of the abdomen is larger than at any other period of life, corresponding to the relatively greater quantity of food then required ; while in old age its capacity is lessened when the activity of digestion is diminished, although its external parietes frequently, at this period, become distended by an accumulation of fat. In the two sexes also there is considerable difference in the form of the abdomen, being proportionably smaller and shorter in the male than in the female, more particularly in the lower part; the width of the ilia in women is also greater than in men. Surgical regions, or sub-divisions of the abdo- men.—Certain arbitrary divisions have been arranged with a view to assist the surgeon in forming a diagnosis, and directing his opera- tions as emergency may require. These divi- sions are equally valuable to the physician in guiding his explorations of the abdominal or- gans. Velpeau’s plates are sufficiently clear to answer our purpose in tracing these divi- sions, and we accordingly reproduce them. Fig. 2. Fig. 2 represents the front of a human fi- gure, exhibiting the regions of the abdomen. The curved line running across the middle of the body, above the small division (1) marks the limits of the two great splanch- nic cavities respectively. Another line drawn from the crista of the ilium on one side de- scending in the fold of the groin, crossing the pubis under (2), and ascending the fold of the groin of the opposite side, till it reaches the crista, marks the limit of the moveable wall of the abdomen below. The line traced on the edges of the lower ribs, and passing under (1), and that corresponding to the cristee of the ilia, and running above (2), form three large zones, which are again subdivided into regions. The first of these zones comprises