ANUS. 336 back, should be made in the perineum, and carried into the space between the accelera- tor nrinae and erector penis, dividing the transversus perinei so that the pus may be entirely emancipated. This should be done so soon as the bladder betrays distress ; for, by delaying it, there is considerable risk that the bladder will be relieved by a rupture of the urethra, its contents being poured forth into the perineum and scrotum. An elderly gentleman, who has been some time under our observation, has suffered for the last thirty or forty years under an afflic- tion, the consequence of such negligence. As tar as can be gathered from him he was suddenly, and without apparent cause, seized with violent pain, accompanied with a sense of weight in the perineum ; his bladder be- came irritable, and, in a short time, his urine was suppressed. The perineum in front of the anus was hard and tumid, and leeches were liberally applied. He has no recollec- tion of being much incommoded in passing his motions, but he does recollect that his intole- rable agony was assuaged on obeying a simul- taneous desire to urinate and evacuate his rectum. The urine he describes as being offensively strong, and from his rectum had passed a considerable quantity of matter. From this time his urine flowed freely, but pus continued to drain from his anus and to pass with his stools, and, after the lapse of a considerable period, (he cannot say how long) the major part of his urine passed, per anum, though some of it continued to be discharged easily through the natural passage. Subse- quently to this, whenever he took laxative medicines, a portion of his faeces passed through the urethra, and in this condition he continues to the present day. At all times a quantity of urine is discharged when he evacu- ates his bowels, and, whenever they have been acted on, his urine is always turbid with feculent matter, and sometimes small portions of excrement temporarily stop up the ure- thra. In the foregoing case it is probable that the urethra had been denuded before the bursting of the abscess into the rectum, so as not to be able to take on the granulating process by reason of which the cavity of the abscess was incapable of being closed, and a fistula was established in its stead. This must have been accomplished before the imperforate end of the canal was absorbed, or otherwise there would have been an infiltration of the perin- eum, which there was not; but the water steadily proceeded then, as it does now, from one organ to the other. A knife, employed in the early stage of the deposition, would have saved this man nearly half a century of annoyance and many years of suffering. 4. In the immediate region of the anus abscesses frequently occur which, though of the same nature, are, when contrasted with those enumerated in the preceding sections, of trivial import. Oftentimes they are situated in the integu- ments, and attention is drawn to them bv an uneasy itching sensation, when the finger detects a hard roundish pimple, which some- times disappears of itself, but at others con- tinues ; although, becoming softer, no further notice is taken ol it until an unusual inoistness of the parts, or the tinged condition of the linen induces the patient to solicit surgical examination. There is then found, on sepa- rating the nates, a very small aperture ad- mitting frequently of only an eye probe, which may be passed under the skin, and will ascend with it within the verge of the anus, where it most commonly ends in a cul de sac. If the aperture cannot be readily found, by pressing the ball of the finger around the margin of the anus, we may succeed in disengagin'’' a portion of the discharge which will thus betray its locality. In the majority of cases, frequent ablution, alone or followed by an ap- plication of a solution of the sulphate of zinc, will suffice to cure them without the formality of an operation : and even when they do open into the canal, they frequently disappear of themselves, though they labour under the disadvantage of receiving into them the secre- tions of the gut. When the tubercle is somewhat larger, and by its size and hardness, is exposed to attrition with the opposite buttock, it is well to transfix them at once, that by dividing them the en- gorged tissue may relieve itself and suppura- tion be forestalled. These hardened tubercles often occupy the cellular line which is interposed betweeii the two sphincters. They may originate in a point of congestion in the cellular substance, but it is more frequently from a consolidated haemorrhoid taking on the suppurative action that abscesses of this description spring. These should never be suffered to remain unopened, since, should they open and dis- charge themselves into the lower part of the rectum, the matter would still extend itself to the integument; and, indeed, it is by this means that they constitute the main source of ordinary fistula. (See Fistula.) 5. Considering the ravages which these abscesses effect, it becomes an imperious duty of the surgeon to endeavour, in the first in- stance, to prevent their formation by a prompt, judicious, and untiring application of those means which are calculated to relieve total congestion, and to' reinstate the balance of the circulation ; and, in the second, when these measures have failed, to modify them in such manner as will lead to the next most favour- able termination. I here is generally no want of power in those who are thus attacked, and, therefore, that universal feverishness of action which attends tonic congestion, in parts more yield- ing and less embarrassed, is, in these cases, of a most exalted and positive character, and must be met with corresponding energy by general and local treatment apportioned to the exigencies of the patient. It may not, in some instances, be possible to prevent the