206 FISTULA, INTESTINAL. above the external ring to the bottom of the scrotum, where it had exposed the testicle. A portion of intestine, an inch in length, com- pletely divided by the accident, appeared at the upper part, and was withdrawn into the abdomen during the washing of the wound. This injury was followed by intestinal fistula and double prolapse. After four years he entered the Hotel Dieu at Paris, on the 29th of September, 1790, when “the prolapse had acquired a considerable bulk, its form was nearly conical, and it measured nine inches in length ; the middle and anterior part was very prominent. Its basis, rather contracted, appeared to proceed from beneath a fold of the skin just above the ring ; the apex reached to the middle of the thigh, and possessed a small opening, through which the feces issued. Nothing had passed by the anus since the period of the wound, except a little whitish matter, at intervals of three or four months. The surface of the swelling was every where red and folded ; and these folds, resembling the valvular productions of the mucous mem- brane, were particularly conspicuous below. A smaller swelling, similar to the former in colour and consistence, was placed externally to it, having an oval form, and discharging a little serous fluid from a puckered orifice. Both possessed a kind of peristaltic motion, which could be excited by throwing a few drops of water on them.” By pressure with the hands, continued for a few minutes, Desault suc- ceeded in diminishing the size of the swelling ; and after maintaining a moderate degree of pressure with a bandage for four days, he ac- complished the entire reduction of the pro- lapse. A thick linen tent, three inches in length, was introduced into the intestine, and maintained there by a proper bandage. He “ proposed to remove this twice a day for the evacuation of feces ; but after some noise in the bowels, accompanied by an acute sense of heat, wind passed by the anus, colicky sensa- tions, and twitching pains in the rectum fol- lowed ; and half a pint of fluid matter was discharged through the rectum. Eight eva- cuations of the same kind, preceded by similar feelings, took place during the night, and made the patient rather weak. The stools were very numerous in the three following days ; but they gradually became thicker, and diminished in number. The linen tent was discontinued on the eighth day, and the open- ing was closed by lint and compresses, sup- ported by a truss with a broad flat pad. This plan entirely prevented the escape of fecal matter by the wound. The young man per- fectly recovered b In a case resembling the above, Scarpa adopted a somewhat similar practice. He introduced into the fistulous canal a tent of linen about the size of the finger, an inch and a half long. In a few hours the patient re- peatedly went to stool. The use of the tent 1 CEuv. Cliirurg. t. ii. p. 370 et seq.; and Lawrence on Ruptures, p. 392. was continued for a week, and afterwards simple dressings were applied to the wound. The external opening, however, did not per- manently close, and it was necessary for the patient to continue the use of the tent, sup- ported by a bandage '. The practice of De- sault was successfully adopted in a case treated by Larrey :. Dupuytren 3 also attempted to relieve the obstruction by direct pressure against the pro- jecting ridge from without. For this purpose he constructed an instrument, of which one end was a crescent, three quarters of an inch in width, the edge and points being smooth and covered with linen. This crescent was fixed on a stem, two or three inches long, ter- minated by an elongated plate, perforated with openings at each end for the passage of strings, by means of which the instrument could be fixed in its place. This plan was tried in 1809 on a patient in the Hotel Dieu. Pain, colic, and nausea, soon came on, and he left the hospital unrelieved. The practice adopted by Desault and others having for its object to push back the projecting ridge, is considered by Mr. Law- rence to be “ rational and judicious but, as this distinguished surgeon remarks, it is “ in most cases inadequate, as it gives relief with- out producing a permanent cure.” Desault himself allows that the method fails if the in- ternal angle be too acute, and if the two portions of intestine have become strongly adherent to each other, or to the surrounding parts. Perforation of the partition.—M. Dupuy- tren 4, not satisfied with the various attempts which had been made to push back the pro- jecting angle, conceived the idea of establish- ing a direct communication between the two portions of intestine, by perforating or de- stroying the intervening angle and partition. Having ascertained by experiments on ani- mals, that a seton, passed from one portion of bowel to the other through their contiguous walls, excited adhesion of their peritoneal surfaces, he practised this process on the 17th of May, 1813, upon a man, thirty-six years of age, who had intestinal fistula following the loss of a loop of intestine three or four inches in length, in consequence of gangrenous her- nia. The two ends of intestine were lying parallel to each other, and were separated by a very prominent ridge. M. Dupuytren cau- tiously passed a curved needle as high as pos- sible into the upper portion of intestine, and brought it out at the corresponding part of the lower portion armed with a thread, which was allowed to remain in the perforation. A few days after, a seton attached to the thread was drawn through the same opening ; air of a feculent odour soon began to pass by the anus. After eight days, the size of the seton 1 Op. cit. p. 240. 3 Rclat. Cliirurg. <le l’Armec d’Oricnt, p. 300. 3 Memoircs de l’Academie Royale do Medecine, 1328. t. i. p. 281. 1 Diet, de Med. ct deCliir. Prat. tom. iii. p. 149.