238 ANEURISM. in the triangular space between that muscle and the trapezius, where, like the former ves- sels, the artery is covered only by some fat and condensed cellular membrane. It is, indeed, in these several spaces where the three different arterial trunks are most exposed, and where the superincumbent parts are of that nature which most readily yields to the growth of the aneurismal swelling. Another diagnostic mark in aneurismal dis- ease of these vessels is the state of the pul- sation in the branches of the subclavian and carotid arteries; the force of the pulse being usually diminished in the branches of a trunk affected with aneurism. Thus, when the carotid is the seat of the disease, its branches only will have their pulsation affected; when the subclavian suffers, the radial artery will pulsate with less force; and when the innomi- nata has become aneurismal, the circulation in the branches both of the subclavian and carotid will be more or less influenced. I may also observe that in proportion as the anenrismal tumour acquires considerable bulk, the diagnosis w ill become more and more difficult, and the difficulty will, in many cases, arise from the circumstance, that two or more of these vessels, and in many instances the arch of the aorta itself, are involved in the disease. In addition to these cases of aneurism of the innominata, aneurisms of other arteries have likewise been treated by placing the ligature on one branch of the diseased trunk. Sir Everard Home adopted this practice, and placed a ligature on the trunk of the common femoral artery in a case of aneurism of the external iliac *. But the operation failed, and he afterwards endeavoured to cure the aneur- ism by coagulating the blood within the sac by the application of heat. Dupuytren tested this mode of operating in a patient who had an aneurism of the subclavian, by placing a ligature on the axillary artery; but the case was not a favourable one for any operation, neither was the after-treatment likely to ensure a successful result. “ A husbandman, forty-five years of age, who had always enjoyed good health, experienced, without any assignable cause, a feeling of numb- ness and weakness in the whole extent of the right arm, and this was quickly followed by a painful sensation at the lower part of the neck, in the clavicular region. The tumour was constantly increasing in size, the arm became more numbed, and finally the numb- ness increased so much as to render his arm almost immoveable. Dupuytren at first tried Valsalva’s method of treatment, combined with cold and discutient applications to the tumour, and though the patient had been bled seven times, and kept on a very low diet, still the tumour, instead of diminishing, continued to augment. The subclavian artery in the space between the scaleni muscles and the clavicle had acquired the size of an egg, and formed 1 Philosophical Transactions, 1826. a tumour of considerable size outwards and upwards towards the trapezius. Below the clavicle the artery appeared healthy, but M. Sanson believed that the disease extended beyond that bone ; the trunk of the common carotid appeared sound, but the strong and full pulsations of the commencement of the subclavian and of the innominata show'ed that both those vessels were likewise affected, although certainly to a less degree than the subclavian itself. The integument covering the tumour had not altered; the arm and hand of the right side were slightly cedcmatous; the hand was partly closed, and the patient could neither open it nor close it more. The whole of the limb was affected with great numbness and painful twitchings. The right arm was of the natural colour and temperature, and the general health good; the pulsations of the heart were strong and sonorous; the respiration easy; cough slight, but not frequent.” “ Dupuytren conceived, that if the method of Hunter or Anel were admissible, it would be necessary in this case to apply the ligature on the origin of the subclavian, which itself was much affected, or on the trunk of the arteria innominata, which for the same reason could not be tied; besides the trials already made by MM. Mott, Graefe, and Lisfranc had not been sufficiently encouraging to lead one to perform the latter operation. There remained then but one alternative, either to abandon the patient to a certain death, or to treat him according to the method of Mr. Wardrop, and tie the axillary artery. “ M. Dupuytren performed this operation, and at the moment when the circulation was ar- rested by the ligature there occurred about twenty very strong pulsations of the tumour, which appeared for the time to augment in size, but very soon resumed their ordinary rhythm, and the patient felt very comfortable.” “ On the following day the tumour was slightly diminished in size, and its pulsations less strong. On the fifth day there was some uneasiness, the pulse was stronger, and some paroxysms of cough having caused the tumour to swell, he was bled at the arm. On this day about noon, the compresses covering the wound were stained with arterial blood ; he was again bled, and in the evening a third time, the discharge of blood continuing. On the next day the flow of blood was nearly stopped ; bled in the evening to one ‘palette.’ The seventh day from the operation the patient ap- peared to be going on well, complaining only of debility and slight dyspnoea; bowels not opened since the operation ; he takes every hour a small quantity of nourishment. On the eighth day the discharge of arterial blood again made its appearance, but in very small quantity: the tumour had much diminished in size; the limb was slightly tumefied, but pre- served its sensibility, the dyspnoea, however, was slightly increased; the patient continued to get weaker, and died on the ninth day at four o’clock in the morning.” “ On examination there were but few traces