22 4 FISTULA, SALIVARY. Duphenix did not wait for the final establish- ment of the new passage, but paring the cal- lous edges, he employed the twisted suture at once to close the external orifice, and the canula, left to itself, came away spontaneously on the sixteenth day. Fig. 266. The cord about tobe placed for the purpose of establish- ing a new passaye. The canula is now used only for the pur- pose of conducting the silk-cord, gut, or lead wire, into the mouth. If either of the latter be employed, the outer end is tied with a fine silk thread, which is secured round the ear, or tied in a small pledget. The cord is then drawn into the orifice of the fistula,'until it reaches the depth at which it is to be allowed to remain. The silk thread, secured outside, will prevent its being drawn into the mouth. The buccal end of the cord is secured in a knot, or small piece of lint, or if it be of lead, it is turned down on the lining membrane. When the course of the saliva is fully esta- blished, and the new track is organized, the fistulous orifice is closed in the manner already described, and the silk cord, or seton, is re- moved by drawing on its buccal extremity. Fig. 267. The cord placed on Deguise's plan. M. Atti employs a lead wire, secured ex- ternally in the same way, by means of a fine silk thread ; the end of the lead wire project- ing into the mouth is divided longitudinally into three equal threads, which are turned down upon the mucous membrane ; and in this manner the wire is kept in its place. When the new passage is sufficiently esta- blished, the external silk thread is cut, and the fistula is healed over the lead wire, which lies deep in the flesh of the cheek, by caute- rization with the nitrate of silver, and the suture. In all these modes, no attempt is made to heal the fistulous orifice, until the new passage is established. In the method which we are now about to describe, this follows imme- diately the insertion of the substance by the agency of which the new route is to be esta- blished. In this method, first proposed by M. Deguise of Paris, the new passage is made double, or with two limbs, which, with the fistulous track, gives to it the shape of the letter Y. The operation is thus performed :— A small trocar is passed backwards towards the edge of the masseter muscle, which must not be wounded, and as much as possible through the duct itself; its point should be made to penetrate into the mouth between the surgeon’s two fingers placed there to re- ceive it. The cord is then introduced through the canula of the trocar into the mouth, and the canula is withdrawn. The trocar is again introduced into the fistula ; and taking the direction of the obliterated passage, is passed forwards and inwards. The other end of the cord is then passed through the canula. If a lead wire be employed, it may be drawn through the perforations made by the trocar, by means of a silk ligature, or waxed thread, previously passed through the canula. The ends of the lead wire are then linked together, and thus remain until it is thought proper to remove them, or until, by acting as a ligature, the bridge of soft parts is entirely divided. It will not, however, be necessary to wait for this ; for as soon as the fistula is healed, there is no good reason why the cord, or seton, should not be removed without further delay. The external fistula is at once closed, in the manner already de- scribed. In this country a stout silk cord, waxed, is in general preferred. M. Vernhes has proposed a gold thread, and what is per- haps of more importance, a modification in regard to the direction in which the trocar is to be passed, and by which the wounding of the masseter would be avoided. He recom- mends for this object that the new passages should be made in the direction upwards and downwards. Compression of Steno’s duct, or of the parotid gland, as an exclusive method, and for the sole purpose of inducing the atrophy of the gland, by previously inducing a state of inflammatory engorgement, is now entirely laid aside. Fistula, arising from the radicles of the paro- tid gland itself, may be successfully treated either by cauterization or blister. . When the root of Steno’s duct is the seat of the fistula, M. Velpeau has advised including the fistulous ends of the duct in an elliptical incision, and