361 FRACTURE. requisite in cases of transverse fracture of the femur ; but he insisted on the necessity of it when the bone was broken obliquely ; that is, doubtless, whenever the shortening continued, considerable, a circumstance much more dis- tinguishable and instructive than the state of the broken ends. In such an instance, with a large unwieldy limb, and perhaps a no very docile patient, we see, that with straight firm splints extending the whole length of the limb, the coaptation of the fracture may be more readily attained and secured : for the knee, leg, ankle, and foot, are thereby kept steadier and freer from disturbance under any neces- sary movements, or even removals, of the patient. It was the main, avowed object of Desault’s practice, that the foot, leg, thigh, and pelvis should have such a connexion together, that they might move together as a whole, how- ever the apparatus or the body might be acted on. The principal part of his apparatus was a long splint, extending from the crista of the ilium to six or eight inches below the foot; it was nearly three inches broad, with an open- ing at each extremity, shaped as a mortise, and a semicircular niche at each end. Having first applied Scultetus’s bandage, two strong linen rollers, each above a yard long, confined the splint to the outside of the leg. One roller was passed round the upper part of the thigh, through the mortise, and knotted on the niche ; pads were placed under the middle of the band, and on the tuberosity of the ischium as the chief point of resistance. The lower part of the leg being then covered with pads, the other roller was applied around it, crossed on the instep and on the sole of the foot; and one end being first passed through the mortise, it was knotted on the niche so forcibly, that pushing the splint upward, and acting on the pelvis and upper portion of the femur, extension was produced, and the lower portion was permanently re-adjusted. A long internal splint extending below the foot, and an anterior one, reaching from the abdomen to the knee, were then applied. The upper ends of the anterior and outer splints were fixed round the pelvis by a roller. Another roller, crossed first round the foot, further se- cured the leg from moving. A lotion of ace- tate of lead was freely employed. Boyer practised the method of Desault, with the addition of a mechanical facility for regulating the extension. (Fig. 321.) Fig. 321. Baron Boyer's Apparatus for Fracture of the Neck of the, femur. “ Composition.—A splint of particular construction for extending the limb;—a foot-support;—a kind of padded belt, which is buckled round the upper part of the thigh ;—two common flat splints of the length of the limb, one for the anterior, and the other for the internal part of the thigh ;—and some cushions, tapes, and wadding. “ The splint is about four feet long and three fingers' breadth wide. Along half the length of this splint runs a groove, about halfan-inch broad, the extre- mity of which is covered with iron ; to this groove a screw is adapted, which occupies its whole length, one end of it being supported against the plate of iron covering the extremity of the groove, and the other made to fit a key by means of which it is to be turned. On -the inside of this splint a contrivance for holding up the foot-support is fastened to the screw. The upper part of the splint is received into a sort of pouch or bay adapted to the external side of the thigh- belt. The sole or foot-support, which has two branches at its inferior part, is made of iron, and covered wi soft leather. It is connected by means of a mechani- cal contrivance, as just mentioned, with the screw. To that part of the sole which is near the heel, is attached a broad piece of soft leather, which being split on each side into two straps, serves for fixing the sole to the foot. “ The thigh-belt, A, is of strong leather, covered with the same material of a softer quality, and well stuffed with wool: near the place where its two ends are buckled together on the limb, a little leather pocket is sewed for receiving the upper end of the external splint. “ Application.—The patient being properly disposed upon the bed, a piece of linen of the length of the limb, and about three-quarters of a yard broad, called porte-attelle, or splint-wrapper, is passed under the limb, lying upon the five ordinary tapes, mm m m m. In the next place, the thigh-belt is applied, the surgeon having previously surrounded the upper part of the limb obliquely with a cushion of wadding, four fingers' breadth wide, and the length of the thigh-belt, in order to moderate the pressure of the latter, and render it more supportable, a a, b, c, d. The hollows of the sole of the foot and lower part of the leg are filled up with wadding or tow, and the. foot-support,