ARTERITIS. 382 of the vessel, it should not be interfered with : Nature is about to perfect a salutary process, and ought not to be disturbed in her opera- tions. Nothing is requisite in such a case but absolute rest; and when there is an accom- panying wound, the surgeon should be careful in paying the requisite attention to it, not to permit any unprofitable meddling with the vessel. But in the unhealthy form of arteritis, and more particularly where it is idiopathic, I question very much whether the general and sweeping direction to treat it anti- phlogistically, is either rational or scientific. Whether correctly or not, I have been accus- tomed to regard this inflammation as bearing a strong analogy with erisypelas, particularly in its sporadic tendency, in the kind of fever that often accompanies it, and in the class of persons it attacks. It ought to be borne in mind also, that inflammation of an arterial trunk in an extremity (the only situation in which it can be recognised,) is frequently followed by gangrene of the limb below it, and this is a process not likely to be arrested in its progress, or benefited in its treatment, by active antiphlogistic measures. I suppose, therefore, that arteritis is to be submitted to a course of management having relation to the age, constitution, and habits of the patient, the probable exciting cause of the malady, and the circumstances in which he may be placed with respect to air, diet, clothing, and those other numerous conditions, which, how- ever superficially regarded, are constantly found to influence disease in all its forms. In some cases, perhaps, a rigid and general antiphlogistic treatment may be necessary ; in others it may be more modified and more locally directed; and in others still it may be easily conceived that camphor, musk, am- monia, and wine might prove the most suit- able and successful medicines. In any line of treatment, however, our present stock of knowledge is not sufficient to enable us to predict a favourable issue to any given case. The disease usually is completely formed be- fore it is discovered, and when discovered, it is in consequence of the occurrence of aneur- ism, mortification of the extremities, or some other result, the importance of which throws the original exciting cause entirely into the back ground. The consecutive disease either occupies the surgeon’s undivided attention, or if not, and he discovers the existence of the arteritis, he finds his interference has come too late, As far as I know, the records of surgery offer nothing cheering or encouraging in the management of this afflicting malady ; but this, instead of diminishing our confidence in the resources of the art, should rather sti- mulate us to further exertion, in order to ren- der them available. For this purpose the etiology of the disease should be carefully studied*, and the early symptoms so described and arranged, that they may be easily disco- vered at the only period at which medical aid can be advantageously resorted to ; namely, at the commencement. Having paid a considerable degree of at- tention to the pathology of aneurism and other organic lesions frequently met with in connexion with that disease, and having sa- tisfied myself that arteritis was one of its im- mediately exciting causes, I have latterly in- vestigated the history of every case that pre- sented itself, and have come to the conclu- sion that intemperance, particularly in the use of ardent spirits, and repeated or ill-conducted courses of mercury, were most generally and most intimately connected with the produc- tion of arterial inflammationl. This latter medicine is seldom used in great quantities, or for any protracted length of time, unless for the cure of syphilis, and hence many have entertained an opinion that arteritis might be a result of the operation of the venereal poi- son. In this supposition, I find Scarpa, Ri- cherand, Corvissart, and to a certain extent Mr. Hodgson, seem to coincide2. Dupuytren, in examining arteritis in connexion with gan- grene of the extremities, states that it is found almost always in persons that have in- dulged too freely in spirituous liquors, in sti- mulating food, and in those who have suf- fered from chronic diseases of the heart, or of the aortic valves or great vessels 3. Bouillaud, amongst the other causes that may produce inflammation generally, enumerates fatiguing and continued exercise, stimulating drinks taken in too great quantity, and the abuse of spirituous liquors as particularly conducing to arteritis *. However occasioned, it tends to the one invariable result, the creation of a dilated or aneurismal condition of the vessel itself, and hence it may be regarded as a pathological condition to which the arteries of persons in very early life are not subject. It has re- cently been adduced by Cruveilhier, Dupuy- tren, and others, as the immediately exciting cause of a particular form of gangrene, which attacks the extremities, and which, according to these pathologists, is produced by the stag- nation of the blood within the inflamed vessel. I have seen some cases of mortification of the extremities in connexion with arteritis of the leading trunk of the limb, and I have used the term, “ particular form of gangrene” here, because I believe it to be by no means iden- tical with the affection known in this country as Pott’s mortification of the toes and feet. It is much more rapid in its progress, and consequently, more extensively destructive ; it often destroys the integuments of the part engaged, a long time before the deeper struc- tures are attacked ; it is infinitely less painful, but, at the same time, I believe it is infinitely more dangerous. This, however, is not the proper place for the discussion of this part of the subject, and the reader must be referred to the articles Gangrene, Mortification, &c. &c. 1 Cyclopaedia of Anatomy and Physiology; article, Pathological Conditions of Artery. 2 Hodgson on the Diseases of Arteries and Veins, p. 9, 10. 3 Lccjons Orales, tom. iv. p. 483. 4 Diet, de Med. ct Chir. Pratiques, tom. iii. p. 413.