493 BLOOD-LETTING. are discharged, the accompanying pain as well as inflammation abates ; but this is not always the case ; under such circumstances, local blood-letting is very useful. In most cases of cellular as well as of glan- dular inflammation, the purulent fluid which is collected, and forms the abscess, does not make its escape if left to nature until the cir- cumjacent swelling and inflammation have abated. But if the matter has been artificially evacuated, and the surrounding swelling and inflammation have not been subdued, then the application of leeches to the inflamed integu- ments, once or twice a day, will be most use- ful ; and it will be observed, that whilst the inflammatory symptoms are thus subdued, the suppurative process is, in like proportion, diminished. When a succession of abscesses has formed in any part, and when sinuses have been ex- tending, as it were, step by step, the inflam- mation of the surrounding soft parts can be completely checked by local bleeding ; and in this manner have I often been able, by the almost daily application of leeches, completely to conquer the inflammation, and thus prevent the formation of new abscesses, and the ex- tension of sinuses. In Ulcers of the Legs.—Blood-letting is equally applicable to the treatment of the in- flamed integuments around an ulcer, and a small number of leeches may be applied with the best effects, in the immediate vicinity of ulcerated surfaces. In Sloughing Ulcers.—Whenever an ulcer, whether it be the consequence of a wound, or caused by some specific virus, such as that of syphilis, assumes a disposition to slough, it has been usual to employ stimulants, both inter- nally and externally. Now there are many cases of this description wherein an opposite or depletive system of treatment may be ad- vantageously employed ; I first observed the extraordinary effect of depletion in a case of sloughing chancre, from which a profuse hae- morrhage took place. A gentleman had lost a great quantity of blood during the night from a sloughing chancre, which had extended into one of the corpora cavernosa. To arrest this haemorrhage I immediately bled him at the arm till he fainted. The haemorrhage did not return, but a change took place which I little anticipated, for the sloughing process was completely checked ; the slough afterwards separated, and the wound granulated and cic- atrised in the most healthy manner. Cases of this kind furnish proof that slough- ing sores are at least not always to be attri- buted to a diminished vigour or typhoid state of the system, or to a more virulent quality of the specific virus, but arise from an excess of inflammation occurring under a peculiar state of the patient’s constitution, and ought to be subdued by an antiphlogistic system of treat- ment, independent of any subsequent treat- ment which may be necessary for the cure of the specific disease. It is, indeed, well known, in cases where the syphilitic sore shows a disposition to inflame much, or to slough, the exhibition of mercury is prejudicial, and ought not to be administered until all local as well as constitutional excitement is subdued. In this class of cases, opium ought also to be freely given, and one or more grains may be taken every few hours, until the symptoms are relieved. These observations apply to wounds where the soft parts slough from the violence of the inflammation consequent to an injury. In hospital gangrene the good effect of this treatment has been established in the most satisfactory manner by Mr. Boggie, an intel- ligent army surgeon, who met with many ex- amples of that formidable disease in military hospitals during the Spanish campaigns, and for which he found venesection the most powerful remedy. Cautions.—Hitherto those classes of dis- eases only have been pointed out wherein bleeding may be employed as the chief cura- tive means ; but there are other in which this energetic remedy ought to be used with much caution, and w'here doubt of its propriety may exist, although it be necessary for the patient’s safety. Blood-letting after the infliction of an injury is often employed very unnecessarily, and often, too, perniciously. I allude to the com- mon practice of bleeding persons immediately after an accident, or during an apoplectic, or convulsive fit. In many accidents, particu- larly where the head suffers, the first effects of the injury are a diminution or collapse of the vital powers, the skin is cold, and the pulse small; if, under such circumstances, blood- letting be had recourse to, a still further dimi- nution is produced. We should never bleed, until the powers of life have recovered, or some degree of reaction has taken place. In Apoplexy.—Blood-letting has frequently been carried to a very unwarrantable, and even fatal extent. In proportion to the violence of an apoplectic shock so are the powers of life and vigour of the heart di- minished ; and hence, if the quantity of blood abstracted be regulated by the severity of the symptoms, in like proportion will such treatment be hurtful by still farther dimi- nishing the vital powers. When a person is in a state of insensibility from an apoplectic fit, those around are too apt to urge the necessity of blood-letting, conceiving that the loss of blood will relieve the disease in the head, of which the fit is merely an effect or symptom L 1 A surgeon was sent for to see a patient, who had fallen down suddenly in an apoplectic fit; he imme- diately opened a vein, and after abstracting only a few ounces of blood, the pulse sank. When he visited this patient, several hours afterwards, he found the powers of life so feeble, that he ordered him cordials, by which the action of the heart and arteries began to revive. Soon after this, however, another surgeon was called in, and he repeated the venesection, after which the patient sank rapidly, and in a few hours expired.