BLISTER. “ Powder of cantharides, 1000 gram. 2 liv. 471 lytta vesicatoria, canlharis vesicatoria of more recent authors. This remarkable property of the above named insect depends on a peculiar principle, chiefly residing, according to M. Farmes, in the interior of the abdomen and thorax. The head and shining parts seem to be destitute of the substance in question. The cantharidine or epispastic principle, may be procured in the form of white crystalline scales, insoluble in water, but soluble in ether, boiling alcohol, and oils. It is acrid and cor- rosive. The hundredth part of a grain applied to the lips is sufficient to raise a blister in a quarter of an hour ; reduced to vapour, it promptly determines vesicular inflammation of the conjunctiva. Cantharidine dissolved in oil has been also recommended as a substitute for the ordinary emplastrum cantharidis 1 ; and M. Bretonneau assures us, that paper imbued with this solution acts with great promptitude and energy. It is said that a tincture prepared with three parts of powdered cantharides and eight of sulphuric ether, is capable of pro- ducing vesication in the short space of ten minutes 2. There are several plants, containing an ex- tremely irritant oily or resinous principle, which have the power of blistering the skin. Among these may be enumerated various species of ranunculus, euphorbia, daphne, and 1 The Parisian codex contains two different formulae for blisters. In the one the cantharides partly cover the plaister; in the other they are wholly incorporated. The first is composed of three parts of Burgundy pitch, one of turpentine, two and a quarter of yellow wax, and one and a half of cantharides, reduced into fine powder. It is recommended before being applied, to sprinkle the surface with a fresh quantity of cantha- rides, and if need be, with a few grains of pulverized camphor. The following is the formula for the second, the vesicatoire Anglais: mix equal parts of wax plaister, axunge, and powdered cantharides. It is pre- ferable to the former. The emplastrum cantharidis of the London Pharmacopoeia, is made with two parts of cantharides in very fine powder, three parts of wax plaister, and one of prepared lard. For the sake of convenience and rapidity, it has been proposed to substitute for the preceding, various sparadraps containing the active principles of cantha- rides, euphorbium, and mezereon. 2 An Italian pharmaceutical chemist named Vcntu- rini has recently published the formula of a blistering taffeta, which he says acts perfectly and promptly, and has none of the inconveniences which sometimes follow the use of the ordinary emplastrum cantharidis. He directs of cantharides in powder one pound, of resin of euphorbia in powder three ounces and a half, and of alcohol, at 35°, five pounds. The solid ingre- dients are to be boiled a few minutes by means of a water bath, in an earthen vessel, not hermetically closed, along with two pounds of the alcohol ; aird after twelve hours’ digestion, strained and filtered. What is left behind is to be treated by the remain- ing three pounds of alcohol, and after two hours digestion, again strained and filtered. The two por- tions of liquor are to be mixed together and distilled, so as to obtain on the one hand the alcohol, on the other the alcoholic extract. This is to be combined with an ounce of isinglass dissolved in an infusion of two ounces of the bark of mezereon, and a pound and a half of water, reduced to ten ounces by gentle evapo- ration. The preparation thus terminated, is to be rapidly spread with a hair-pencil upon black taffeta, which is afterwards cut into pieces for use.—(Gazctta Ecclcctica di Chimia, Avril, 1839). urtica. The volatile oil of mustard seed is perhaps the only vegetable epispastic now employed. It is remarkably active in its operation. Mons. Pigeaux has proposed the sudden combustion of a minute quantity of spirit of wine as a ready means of effecting instant ve- sication. His process as described in the second volume of the Bulletin de Therapeutique, p. 176, is the following : cut a circular patch of linen, cloth, or paper of the requisite size, imbue it thoroughly with spirit of wine, and apply it accurately to the skin, previously shaved if necessary ; pass a lighted match ra- pidly along it, so as to set the whole on fire at one and the same moment. The flame thus kindled is extinct in fifteen seconds, after which the epidermis separated from the cho- rion may be detached either with the point of the nail, the finger, or a bit of lint. The circular patch which had been soaked in spirit, appears perfectly dry and unscathed after the operation. MM. Recamier and Trousseau, have ob- tained a prompt vesication, or at all events a prompt and complete separation of the cuticle, by applying to the skin circular layers of lint, soaked in a highly concentrated solution of ammonia. A compress spread with an oint- ment prepared by incorporating equal parts of caustic ammonia, and hog’s lard, answers the same purpose, provided it be fresh made. We find the following notices of the modes of preparing blisters by MM. Bretonneau and Trousseau, as well as that of Mr. Johnson in a new periodical called The Chemist, published by Hastings. “ Blister of Bretonneau.—To prepare this blister, oil is mixed with the powder of can- tharides, in such a manner as to give it the consistence of an electuary. A sheet of paper is then taken, in w'hich is cut an aperture of the size and form to be given to the blister ; this sheet of paper is then stuck upon a piece of adhesive oil-cloth, afterwards, with a spatula, is spread, in the circle formed by the sheet of paper, a layer of the epispastic mixture, of which the thickness should not exceed one or two millimeters ; the sheet of paper is then raised, and in this manner the pomade remains upon the oilcloth, without superfluity and accu- rately circumscribed. “ The cantharides are then covered with a piece of blotting-paper, which extends be- yond them, and adheres to the oil-cloth. The oil-paper, impregnated with cantharadine, penetrating the blotting-paper, comes in con- tact with the skin, and these blisters join, to an extreme activity, all desirable cleanliness. “Blisters of Mr. Johnson.— Mr. J ohnson takes the English blistering plaster of the Pharma- copoeia and when it is spread he rubs over it a light layer of the oil of cantharides in ether. “ This oil is that which serves for the con- fection of blistering taflety ; it is prepared in the following manner, according to the new Pharmacopoeia.