CLUB-FOOT. 793 of the heel and the prominence of the tendon, It is in general most conveniently accom- plished at the distance of about an inch from its insertion into the os calcis. By Dr. Little and the most experienced orthopaedic sur- geons a preference is given to the transverse section from before backwards. “ The pro- position,” says Dr. Little, “ to divide the ten- don in an oblique direction, in order that larger surfaces may be presented for the effu- sion of the uniting medium, and firmer re- union of the tendon be ensured, has resulted rather from mechanical ideas of the mode of reunion of divided tendons than from prac- tical observation or physiological reasoning. I have invariably performed the transverse division, and in every instance the tendo achillis has united by a band as firm and large, and sometimes even larger, than the original tendon; the spot where the operation has been performed is frequently impercepti- ble. The experiments of Von Ammon, Giin- ther, and Bouvier on dogs and horses have demonstrated that reunion of tendons, by a strong ligamentous or semi-cartilaginous band, takes place, in whatever manner the division be effected, and whether the ends be main- tained in apposition or at a distance, resulting from contraction of the muscle, or even when portions are removed.” Division of the tendo achillis is only calculated to relieve effectually talipes equinus and the slighter cases of varus1. In aggravated cases of varus and valgus we are compelled to divide the tendons of other muscles besides the achilles tendon. In varus, the tendons of the tibialis posticus, flexor longus pollicis, and sometimes of the tibialis anticus, require division. Yet this extensive application of the knife must not be hastily decided on. Very extreme in- stances of varus, especially when originating in paralysis of the anterior muscles of the leg, may be cured by section of the Achilles tendon alone. Of this, Dr. Little’s ‘2‘2d case is a marked example. In valgus, division of the tendons of the peronaei muscles is neces- sary, in addition to that of the tendo achillis. Whenever the section of other tendons besides the achilles tendon is required, it is better to divide the tendons of those muscles which produce the inversion or eversion first; and, having brought the foot in line with the leg, that is, having reduced the deformity to the state of talipes equinus, then to operate upon the tendo achillis. Not unfrequently before the contraction can be fully overcome, a transverse section of the plantar fascia is called for. After-treatment.—In whatever way the sec- tion of tendons for the relief of distortions 1 Stromeyer, in liis early practice, attempted the cure of every variety of club-foot by section of the tendo achillis alone, and frequently with perfect suc- cess. In the letter to the author of this article, al- ready referred to (p. 785), ho writes, “ My opinions on club-foot are very little altered since the publication of iny Beitia^e. I am, however, no longer doubtful of the necessity of dividing the tendon of the tibialis posticus, having repeatedly done it with decided ad- vantage.” may be performed, the success of the opera- tion depends mainly upon the after-treatment pursued ; and this refers not merely to the form of apparatus employed in the mechani- cal extension of the tendon and the foot, a process which, in the more complicated vari- eties of talipes, has afforded scope for the exercise of much ingenuity. It includes also the active manipulation of the foot and leg, with the object of elongating the contracted ligaments, restoring the natural relative posi- tion of the bones, and exciting the long-sus- pended contractility of the muscles. To ac- complish this satisfactorily within the limited period during which the divided tendon can be extended, requires, in the majority of cases, great labour and attention. Assiduous mani- pulation with the hand, aided by the relaxing influence of hot bathing and friction, is indis- pensable. This treatment must be commenced as soon as the divided extremities of the ten- don are sufficiently united to admit of it ; three or four days may in general be allowed for this result, although a tolerably firm ad- hesion will frequently take place in the course of twenty-four hours. The mechanical exten- sion and the manipulation must be moderate in degree at first, and increased gradually as the tendon is found capable of bearing it. During the first fortnight of the after-treat- ment, the manipulation and hot bathing must be actively carried on for at least half an hour twice in the day, and the extending apparatus reapplied, and its action increased after each operation. About a fortnight after the division of the tendon, if the progress of the case permit it, the patient may be allowed to bear upon the limb, and by degrees encou- raged to walk, his attention being directed to the maintenance of the proper position of the foot, and particularly to the planting of the sole firmly upon the ground. This will be found materially to contribute to the complete restoration of the foot. Nevertheless, even when conducted with the greatest care and attention, the treatment may fail ; a single operation may not suffice to bring down the heel and rectify entirely the mal-position. The surgeon may be baffled by the extreme contraction and strength of the ligaments, which will only partially yield whilst the ten- don continues extensible. In such a case a repetition of the section will be necessary to complete the cure. This is a point to be taken into consideration in giving a progno- sis, otherwise the patient and friends may be disappointed, and discredit will be thrown upon the operation. In one case Dr. Dieffen- bach divided the tendo achillis six times be- fore he obtained a satisfactory result. A great variety of apparatus has been sug- gested in order to effect the mechanical ex- tension of the foot after the tendon has been divided. In proportion as the case recedes from the simplicity of talipes equinus, more complicated apparatus becomes necessary, and the surgeon has a larger field for the exercise of his mechanical invention. The instrument of Stromeyer (fig. 175) will be found sufficient 3