420 ASPHYXIA. piece, as soon as the plaster began to set he felt on a sudden deprived of the power of respiration, and, to add to his misfortune, was cut off from the means of expressing his dis- tress. His situation, however, was fortunately perceived just in time to save his life, by breaking his bonds and releasing him from the extreme peril in which they had placed him *. Secondly, the muscles of respiration may be paralyzed by their connexion with the cerc- bro-spinal axis being severed, as occurs when the spinal chord is divided or compressed above the attachment with it of the respira- tory nerves. Or the muscles may be so in- jured by extensive wounds or disease as to in- capacitate them from performing their actions. Thirdly, the respiratory movements may be interfered with, and the lungs compressed, in consequence of collections of fluids, such as serum, pus, &c., taking place between the pleural envelopes of the lungs and thorax. (Vide Empyema, Hydrothorax.) Fourthly, the lungs, thorax, and respiratory muscles may be uninterfered with ; but from causes which produce obliteration of the respi- ratory tube either by their acting of them- selves, a strictly mechanical part, or by their presence producing spasm of the glottis, the access of air to the lungs may be prevented. Amongst the causes which induce asphyxia in this way may be enumerated all kinds of com- pression which operate externally upon the air-tube, such as strangulation, compression from tumours in the neck, or from foreign bodies impacted in the oesophagus ; all foreign bodies received into its interior, and which All its cavity; the effects of inflammation, as oedema of the glottis, the false membrane of croup or of chronic laryngitis, abscess of the glottis, fungous growths, submersion and the presence of non-respirable gases, or other causes which produce spasm of the glottis. Fifthly, another class of causes may affect the ultimate ramifications of the bronchia, and interfere mechanically with the chemical end of respiration, by preventing the access of the inspired air to the blood, viz., effusions of fluid into the air-cells, the result of disease, or of division of the pneumo-gastric nerves. The second class of causes which induce asphyxia by affecting the atmospheric air, consists of a too rarefied condition of this fluid, or the presence in it of certain gases. In both these cases the quantity of oxygen is not in due proportion in the respired medium, and the essential chemical object of respiration is therefore unattained. If an animal be placed under the receiver of an air-pump, and the air be exhausted, or rather rarefied, it soon perishes ; and if, dur- ing the performance of the experiment, air be re-admitted, it shortly revives. When an ex- periment of this kind is performed quickly, so as speedily to deprive the animal of the neces- sary supply of oxygen, death is speedily in- duced by asphyxia ; but if it be slowly per- 1 Rogct, in Cyclopaedia of Practical Medicine. formed, or if the animal itself be allowed to respire the air it is confined in, it soon fur- nishes, in addition to the exhaustion of oxy- gen, a positively deleterious agent to the due performance of respiration, carbonic acid. It is difficult to suppose a case of asphyxia occurring to man merely from an extremely rarefied condition of the atmosphere. It is even doubtful if the strange symptoms which travellers have experienced on reaching very high elevations are to be attributed to this cause, “ producing a diminished pressure on the body,” or to “ an insufficient supply of oxygen for respiration.” Boyle noticed the effects produced from ascending high moun- tains, and ascribed them to the rarefaction of the air. According to Haller, the peculiar sensations are to be attributed to excessive fatigue or exhaustion, rather than to any thing specifically depending upon the state of the air ; and this opinion he supports from his own experience in his expeditions among the Alps, from the fact of individuals permanently re- siding in many parts of Switzerland at very considerable elevations without experiencing any inconvenience, and from effects of an analogous kind never having been noticed with respect to the different species of animals that are found in these regions. The account given by Saussure of the sensations he expe- rienced at a very high elevation, and which he attributed to diminished pressure of the at- mosphere upon the body, is not in accordance with that which other travellers have given us. “ Respiration becomes laborious and pant- ing, the pulse is quickened, and there is felt an universal uneasiness, joined to excessive weak- ness, and haemorrhages come on '.” Mr. Moor- croft informs us that when he was at the village of Niti, his breathing was quickened, and that lie was obliged to stop frequently in conse- quence of the increased action of the heart; his breathing was often oppressed while he was lying down, and especially just before falling asleep. (Asiatic Researches.) The difficulty of breathing was also felt by Captain Webb when he visited Niti ; and he adds, that horses are liable to it as well as men. (Quart. Journ.) Lieut. Gerard, who has ascended the Hima- laya mountains to elevations of from fifteen to nineteen thousand feet, mentions that he suf- fered excessive debility and severe headache. (Geol. Trans.) Dr. Govan, tvho crossed the Himalayas at an elevation of considerably more than fifteen thousand feet, felt nothing peculiar in his respiration or other functions, nor was any of a train of forty natives who ac- companied him in any way affected. (Brew- ster’s Journal of Science.) Mr. Caldcleugh also, at an elevation of between twelve and thirteen thousand feet, seems to have experi- enced nothing more than what might reason- ably be ascribed to fatigue ; nor did any thing particular occur to his guides and attendants2. 1 Saussure, Voyage au Mont-Blanc. Richeraud s Physiology, by Copland. . 2 Travels in South America. Bostock’s Physio- logy.