24G ANEURISM. preventing the formation of a coagulum or interna] clot of sufficient length to plug up the canal of the artery above the ligature, then it may be advisable to place an additional liga- ture on the artery, between the collateral branch and the heart, provided such a measure be practicable from the seat of the aneurism, and likewise from the superior part of the vessel not having another collateral branch so near as to render it injudicious to resort to a second operation. When, for example, a liga- ture has been placed on the trunk of the common femoral artery, I have known hae- morrhage to take place in consequence of the proximity of the noose of the ligature to the circumflex ilii, and epigastric arteries, there not being sufficient room left for a coagulum to be formed between the ligature and these branches ; in such a case the pa- tient’s life can be saved by securing the ex- ternal iliac. In one case, an experienced sur- geon tied the superficial femoral artery close to the profunda, intending to place the liga- ture on the common trunk of the femoral artery—and the patient died from haemor- rhage. The same error was committed by another surgeon. When secondary haemorrhage has arisen in consequence of the diseased state of the coats of the artery at the place where the ligature was applied, preventing their adhesion, and causing their ulceration, then it may also be considered, how far it may be worth while to risk another operation, and place a second ligature on the artery at a place where its coats are supposed to be sound. In other cases of a similar description, the propriety of amputating the limb, if such a proceeding be practicable, may be duly considered, and should be resorted to, when it can hold out a rational prospect of saving life. If secondary haemorrhage has been caused by a bad condition of the wound, and the ulcer- ative process has extended to the artery, then art can avail but little, and we must entirely confide to a well-directed pressure with the point of the finger on a small compress of lint, on the bleeding orifice, effected by a succes- sion of competent assistants, along with the application of styptics, of which the most powerful is the saturated solution of alum, sulphate of copper, or the lunar caustic. TRAUMATIC, OR FALSE ANEURISM. The false, spurious, diffuse, or traumatic aneurism, consists in a tumour, formed by effusion of blood from a wounded artery into the surrounding cellular membrane. This species of aneurism is usually caused by the arteries being wounded by a sharp pointed instrument, the limb being pierced in an ob- lique direction, so that the opening in the artery not corresponding with that of the integuments, the blood, instead of escaping through the external wound, is infiltrated into the cellular membrane, adjacent to the wound in the vessel. A false aneurism has also beeu in some cases formed by the fractured ex- tremity of a bone wounding an artery ; or the violence of the injury which caused the frac- ture, may produce also the rupture of the parietes of the artery. It has likewise been known to succeed violent muscular efforts, producing a sudden rupture of arteries, the tunics of which had been previously diseased. The effusion of blood, which arises from a ligature cutting too quickly through an artery, falls also under this designation ; and even the term false has been applied to the second stage of the true aneurism, when a rupture of the sac has taken place. Sometimes the effusion of blood immediately follows the wound of the artery, and is diffused in an irregular manner among the soft parts ; at others, the effused blood is contained in a circumscribed cavity or sac, formed also by the surrounding cellu- lar membrane, or by the proper sheath of the artery. In the former instance, the false aneurism is said to be diffused,; in the latter, circumscribed. If the wounded artery be deeply seated, and underneath a strong aponeurosis, and the external wound is narrow, oblique, and not corresponding with that in the artery, no great haemorrhage may take place at the time of the accident, the blood coagulating and forming a clot which prevents the bleeding. In a few days, however, the limb swells, the tumefac- tion commencing at the wounded part, and extending more or less gradually in different directions over the member, and this circum- stance, together with the situation, direction, and depth of the wound, generally leads to the detection of the real nature of the injury. When arteries superficially situated are wounded, ineffectual attempts to heal the wound by the application of pressure, may cause the formation of a false aneurism, by preventing the blood from making its escape through the external wound, and allowing it to be infiltrated in the surrounding cellular membrane ; or the wound in the soft parts, in consequence of some movement of the limb, may be drawn away from the corresponding orifice of the artery, or the swelling of the soft parts may prevent the escape of the blood by the external wound, and thus cause it to be diffused more or less extensively amidst the surrounding parts. Sometimes a false aneurism increases at intervals; the clot of blood which had temporarily closed up the wound of the artery being detached by the force of the circulation, and thus permitting further effusion of blood. In this manner, all the parts around and below the wound become more or less speedily injected with blood. When the distension of a limb is very great, the return of the venous blood becomes im- peded, and hence follow oedema, coldness, and diminished sensibility of the member, and if the integuments are greatly distended, gan- grene supervenes, and extends throughout the limb, or abscesses may be formed, followed by profuse discharge of pus, and the separation of gangrenous eschars.