CANCER, ANATOMY OF. 598 If a section be made of a scirrhous tumour while in the stage of induration, the existence of a containing and contained part is imme- diately recognised. The general colour of the cut surface, or, more correctly speaking, of that portion of it formed by the contained element is grayish, or bluish white, in rare instances greenish, reddish, or deep-brown, but under all circumstances presenting a glossy and pe- culiar semi-transparent aspect: the latter character is best seen by examining a thin slice of the substance. The containing tissue, formed of bands of fibrous appearance, which are easily distinguishable from the matter they enclose by their greater opacity and their in- ferior glossiness, vary considerably in their mode of arrangement. In some instances thej’ form spheroidal cells ; in others a rec- tilinear disposition predominates; in others they appear to radiate from a central fibro- cartilaginous nucleus to the periphery of the tumour. The proportion of surface occupied by the cancerous matter and the intersecting lamellae varies greatly. The former is com- monly most abundant, the septa constituting simply delicate partitions ; but in the early stage of the disease, especially in dense organs, a firm, pale, compact, cellulo-fibrous tissue (chondroid of Recamier) is not unfrequently, as Dr. Carswell observes, the only anatomical clement to be distinguished: there is now no distinct appearance of septa ; but as the dis- ease advances, the secretion of true cancerous juice grows proportionally active, and the locular character is developed. The septa of scirrhus frequently stretch beyond the tumour into the surrounding cellular tissue. One of the chief characteristics of this species of carcinoma is its extreme hardness ; in this respect it often exceeds cartilage, and there is hardly any exaggeration in the vulgar term stone cancer. As a general measure of consistence, the intervertebral fibro-cartilages are perhaps the best. The degree of indura- tion in the actually hard part of a tumour is very equal throughout; but there are fre- quently scattered through its substance one or more small masses of homogeneous pulpy matter, of yellowish brown colour, semi- transparent, slightly glutinous, and altogether closely resembling apple-juice. The transi- tion from hardness to complete pulpiness is usually sudden, the stratum immediately ad- joining the softened matter possessing the full share of density existing elsewhere. The degree of adhesion of the enclosed matter to the fibrous septa, though variable, is always considerable. By forcible pressure a thin albuminous fluid may be made to exude from a slice of the tumour ; this is the scirrhous juice or ichor. The importance of its pre- sence as a diagnostic sign of scirrhus is indubitable ; M. Cruveilhier goes so far as to affirm that it forms the only distinction (visible with the naked eye) between some tumours in the bones really belonging to this class, and others merely fibrous. It is commonly impossible to discover with the naked eye any vascularity in an uniujected scirrhous mass. Delpech is stated, as some- thing extraordinary, to have shown some capillaries running a few fines into a tumour. Scarpa even affirms that no matter how fine material be employed for injection, none can be forced into the morbid growth itself—that the principal arterial trunks of the diseased organ only are filled. Mr. Travers and Lob- stein write in a similar strain. Dr. Carswell states that blood-vessels are rarely percepti- ble ; and that such as are discoverable really belong to the normal tissues enclosed within the heterologous substance. Cruveilhier on the other hand maintains, that, in spite of this tenuity, vessels may be recognised with a little attention; while Muller expresses his astonishment that authors should have repre- sented this structure to be without them, and declares he has never failed to discover them on accurate examination. Independently of a priori views, we are disposed to agree with the last named observers from our own ex- perience : we have occasionally seen injected specimens of undoubted scirrhus, in which an obscure rosy tint, from abundant punctua- tion was plainly perceivable. No attempt has, so far as we are aware, been made to investigate the relations of the venous, lymphatic, and nervous systems to these tumours. Microscopical characters.—Passing over the observations of Everard Home on this subject, which arc too fanciful to require particular notice, we come to the recent inquiries of Muller. In some specimens of scirrhus of the mamma examined by this anatomist, white canaliculated filaments containing a colourless, whitish, or yellowish matter, were seen scattered through the mass. These hollow filaments appear to consist of lactife- rous ducts and lymphatic vessels with thick- ened walls; they are not found in non- glandular parts. They are represented in PI. I. Fig. 9. The mass of the scirrhus consists of a fibrous and a granular substance. The former constitutes the bed in which the latter is deposited, and cannot generally be distin- guished until the granular element has been scraped away or removed by maceration ; it then exhibits the appearance seen in PI. I. Fig. 10. The remaining matter, of gray colour, consists of loosely-connected microscopical formative globules, or transparent hollow cells or vesicles measuring from ’00045 to ’0012 of a Paris inch in diameter, and insoluble in cold or boiling water, and in acetic acid. In many of these cells some points resembling minute granules are alone to be recognised, (PI. I. Fig. 11. and PI. II. Fig. I.); in others one or more good sized corpuscules, like nuclei or smaller vesicles, are perceived, and each of these corpuscules or germinal cells is itself supplied with a minute opaque nucleus, as is seen in PI. 11. Fig. 2. Chemical characters.—Morin, Collard do Martigny, and Hecht, have examined the