155 ERYSIPELAS. < Traite dcs Malad. dcs Enfants, &c. Op. cit. Op. cit. 3 Cliomeh Op. cit. as erysipelas, there is no danger to be appre- hended from it as long as it remains fixed to the skin ; but it is otherwise when the dis- placement is effected to the interior, and the danger is then, in proportion to the import- ance of the organ affected and the violence of the attack. Periodic Erysipelas.—Its returns are more or less regular, and are generally subordinate to influences that may explain them ; but are sometimes without any appreciable cause. It is most commonly observed in advanced age, women at the “ turn of life,” and persons of cachectic habit. It has been seen to coincide with the epochs of a suppressed periodic dis- charge. Frank found it to replace the men- strual flux that had been accidentally sup- pressed *. It sometimes attacks persons of gouty and rheumatic habit, most probably partaking of the constitutional etiology of these complaints. Larry knew a man per- fectly healthy, otherwise that used to be at- tacked twice a year at each equinox with periodic erysipelas 2. There is no speciality of symptoms belonging to periodic erysipelas ; but being generally reproduced on the same seat, repeated attacks leave after them traces that the skin may permanently retain, to the injury of its functions as well as appearance. Section V.—Erysipelas of infants, Erysipelas neonatorum.— It presents peculiarities that have at all times entitled it to a separate de- scription. It generally attacks infants in the first weeks or months of their existence. It is rarely observed in children that are isolated and brought up in conditions of care and salubrity. It is almost exclusively confined to charitable establishments, where children are crowded together and exposed to the deleterious influ- ences of imperfect ventilation, uncleanliness, and insufficient food. These facts, together with the adynamic and gangrenous tendency of the disease, show that it depends more upon endemic and general causes than upon local accidents, such as forced tractions of the funus &c., which have only the value of occasional causes. Certain atmospheric influences de- velop it with a frightful generalization, as is showrn by the statistical accounts of large es- tablishments. The abdomen is the seat of predilection of the disease, but it does not always begin at the umbilicus : it as frequently begins on some other part of the abdomen, and often on the genital organs, probably owing to the irritation produced by the con- tact of the urine. Sometimes it begins round the pustules of vaccination, and it has also been seen to arise on parts unexposed to any local irritation, such as the face, from whence it extends rapidly over the neck, chest, and arms. It not unfrequently assumes the erratic character and almost always the asthenic and typhoid form. Dr. Baron, Physician to the Hospice des Enfants Trouves, assures us that in almost all fatal cases, the disease was found to be complicated with peritonitis 3 ; its march is extremely rapid. Durces mentions a case in which in twenty-four hours a leg and thigh, an arm, the face and the body were invaded by the disease. It rarely terminates by reso- lution, and w'hen the disease is extensive death generally ensues, even before gangrene and suppuration have set in. These are however the usual terminations, and they are effected with a frightful rapidity. It is probably ow'ing to this circumstance that Underwood, as Billard has observed, confounded this affec- tion with primitive gangrenous inflammation, which is also not uncommon at this period of life4. Erysipelas of old age.—Senile erysipelas generally attacks the legs and feet, especially in deteriorated constitutions, and in persons with whom these extremities are habitually infiltrated. It is here that Boyer’s appella- tion of erysipelatous oedema becomes appro- priate. The genital organs are often the seat of erysipelas at this age. The march of senile erysipelas is generally slow and sub- acute, and when characters of much reaction manifest themselves they are of short dura- tion, and the vital powers become seriously compromised. “ The following table gives a synoptical resume to adopt. Vauietiks. ^ Section I. Section II. Section III. Section IV. Section V. of the varieties that we have thought fit Apyretic Erysipelas. Simple Erysipelatous Fever. Inflammatory Erysipelas. Bilious Erysipelas. Adynamic Erysipelas. Ataxic Erysipelas. (Edematous Erysipelas. Phlegmonous Erysipelas. Traumatic Erysipelas. Erysipelas of the Head. Erysipelas of the Extremities. Erysipelas of the Trunk. Erratic Erysipelas. Periodic Erysipelas. Infantile Erysipelas. Senile Erysipelas.