AMPUTATION. 177 The first incision commences on the outside of the spine of’ the tihia, is carried over the fibula, and terminates on the inside of the first bone, joining the point from which it set out. (d, c, no. 2, figs. 42,43). The skin is dissected up for an inch and a half, and reflected, the fat out- wards, so as to form a bourrelet, or sleeve. The second, proceeding as the first, divides the mus- cles, front and back of the bones, at the point where the skin is reflected. The interosseous muscles, with all the parts below the level on which the soft parts were divided by the second incision, still remain, and can only be cut by carrying the catling round each bone separately. As soon as this step is com- pleted, a three-tailed linen compress is used to retract the divided muscles, &c., and the saw is applied first on the tibia, and then on the fibula, or rather on both together, and taking care to complete the section of the fibula first. Within the last thirty years, surgeons both in England and on the Conti- nent have been in the habit of removing the spine of the tibia, which from its extreme pro- minency, is sometimes liable to become denu- ded in the stump. Beclard used to direct the first strokes of the saw upon it obliquely from above, downwards, for about half an inch above the point at which he intended to saw the bone transversely; he then withdrew the saw, and commencing the section below, so as to fall in with it, cut through both the bones in the manner already described. Messrs. Guthrie and S. Cooper, recommend this practice ; but they do not insist upon it, per- haps, so much as it deserves. The difference in the degree of retraction which the muscles in this part of the limb present in consequence of their being at- tached to bones, or free from such attachment, has suggested certain modifications in the manner of dividing them. The muscles situ- ated in the hollow between the tibia and fi- bula, anteriorly retract but little : those situa- ted behind the bones retract in proportion to the length of their fibres, and their freedom from attachment to bone. Sir C. Bell, keep- ing these points in view, recommends, first, an oblique section of the gastrocnemii muscles upwards, and then the complete division of the less retractile muscles on a level with the top of fhis incision. B. Bell, with the same object, repeats, for this amputation, the same caution that he gives in regard to the thigh and arms, viz. to detach the muscles for some way up the bones before applying the saw. The arteries that will require a ligature are, the anterior tibial, which will be found in front of the interosseous ligament, associated with its nerve, and from which it must be separated before the ligature is applied; the posterior tibial artery; the peroneal; the gemelli, and sometimes the nutritious artery of the tibia. The arterial distribution here varies according to the height on the limb, at which the ampu- tation is performed. When the operation is performed as high up as the tuberosity of the VOL. i. tibia, there will be but a single trunk to tie, the popliteal, with some articular branches, and the gemelli ; in proportion as the bones are cut lower, we shall have the nutritious artery of the tibia, the posterior tibial, and the peroneal. The lips of the wound are made to cover the bones either transversely or in a line from front to back. Richerand recommends an oblique reunion in the line of the two bones, a mode which combines the advan- tages of the other two. The stump should be slightly bent, and made to rest on its outer edge on a cushion. Fig. 44. Fig. 44. Circular amputation of the left leg at the place of election; the ley is represented, supported by a rail, with the face of the stump turned forwards, in the position it is usually presented in amputation, when the bleeding vessels are about to be tied. The tibia (marked b J, and the fibula (marked a), are seen in the soft parts a little nearer to each other than natu- ral, owing to the latter's having lost its support; the knee, and upper part of the leg are but little seen, being foreshortened in order to afford a fuller view of the face of the stump. Flap method.—This method, though first applied by Lowdham to amputation of the leg, is rarely resorted to by modern surgeons, except in cases where it presents the only alternative to an amputation of the thigh. It has numerous modifications; some surgeons form two flaps ; others but one. Dupuytren used to form two flaps, the front one extend- ing three inches down the tibia, the back one of the same extent, behind the bones ; both w ere joined, according to Ravaton’s plan, by a circular incision, and the flaps were dissected up to their base. The muscles of the inter- osseous space are then cut clean, and the bones are sawed in the usual way. In Lowdham’s plan, a single flap four inches long from the point where the bones are to be sawed, is formed out of the soft parts of the calf; the skin and interosseous muscles on the front or outside of the leg are divided by a transverse incision. The inconvenience, and frequently the excessive pain arising from the sudden turn which the base of the flap must make to cover the bones, render the N