204 FISTULA, the adhesions uniting the intestine to the neck of the sac are becoming firmly organized. In this stage, the surgeon allows the process to advance without interruption. He pro- vides for the comfort of his patient by atten- tion to cleanliness, securing the frequent re- moval of the excretions, and correcting the fetor of the discharges by the application of linen wet with some antiseptic lotion (creo- sote half a drachm, distilled water one pint). Should inflammation exist in the abdomen, he combats it by its own appropriate treatment. He supports the strength of the patient by nutrient liquids ; and if the passage of feces into the lower part of the intestinal canal be not entirely interrupted, he provides for the occasional evacuation of the lower bowel by clyster. During the progress of the case, those changes which we have already noticed as conducing to the permanent restoration of the alimentary canal, and to the closure of the ex- ternal wound, gradually proceed, and more or less perfectly accomplish the cure. In aiding these processes, or in altogether superseding them, when they are ineffectual, various reme- dial measures are indicated, which we shall consider in detail, after having briefly noticed the early treatment of fecal discharges conse- quent upon penetrating wounds. It has been already shown that fecal dis- charge from wounds inflicted by sharp instru- ments or by fire-arms, in a great majority of instances, ceases spontaneously, and that such discharge often proves beneficial, by mitigating the severity of the subsequent inflammation. Bearing these facts in mind, the surgeon, in treating penetrating wounds of the abdo- men attended with fecal discharge, but unac- companied by prolapse of the bowel, regards the feculent discharge rather as a favourable occurrence, and allows it to proceed, for some time at least, without interruption. Hisgreat solicitude is to guard against the destruction of the adhesions which are in process of for- mation, and to combat, the very first outbreak of inflammation. These objects he endea- vours to attain by quietude of mind and body, by abstinence, and by the use of unirritating clysters. At the same time he avoids all irri- tating and obstructing applications to the wound, which may be lightly covered with wet linen, or a poultice of scalded bran enve- loped in a linen bag. Should inflammation occur, slight in degree, and in a subject whose constitution is feeble and exhausted, mild antiphlogistic measures, as the local abstrac- tion of blood, fomentations and bran-poultices over the whole abdomen, may be employed. When, however, the inflammatory symptoms are developed with great intensity, free, and some times repeated, venesection is required, seconded by the frequent application of leeches to the abdomen, followed by fomenta- tions and poultices. After the acute stage of inflammation is subdued, the mischief may still obscurely linger in a subacute or chronic form, requiring the occasional use of leeches, NTESTINAL. and of large blisters over the abdominal sur- face. The surgeon having thus, by active treat- ment, arrested the inflammation, nature usually accomplishes the gradual closure of the wound. In the five cases, which vta have briefly quoted in page 197, the wound was closed in periods varying from three to five weeks. When the intestine protrudes through the opening in the abdominal walls the danger is greatly aggravated ; inflammation is more lia- ble to occur; the protruded bowel may slough, from being strictured by the parietal aperture ; and the wound in the intestine, in such cases, is frequently more extensive. It now becomes the duty of the surgeon to re- duce the case as nearly as possible to the con- dition of those injuries, unattended with pro- trusion, which we have just considered. When stricture exists, it must be moderately and carefully dilated by the bistoury, so as to allow the return of the bowel. If the wound of the intestine be small, it appears to be a matter of indifference whether the bowel be returned into the abdomen with or without being closed by suture or ligature. When the intestine is returned without suture, it has been ascertained that fecal effusion into the peritoneum rarely if ever occurs ; but in some instances the wound in the intestine remains in apposition with the external opening, allow- ing of the discharge of feces, which after a time generally ceases. If the small wound be closed by ligature or suture, and the intestine afterwards replaced, effusion very rarely takes place, and the ligature, when detached, falls into the cavity of the intestine, and escapes with the feces by the natural passage. There are, as Mr. Travers1 remarks, observations which “satisfactorily establish the practica- bility of either mode of proceeding.” Rich- ter, Dionis, Garengeot, Sharp, and Sabatier, advocated the return of the intestine, when the wound was small, without uniting it by suture or ligature. Le Dran and Mr. Benja- min Bell incline to the opposite treatment. Mr. Travers adopts the ligature without hesi- tation in all such cases, observing to cut off the ends of the ligature 2, “ by which precau- tion it will pass directly by the bowel, and not impede the healing of the wound.” It may, however, be fairly questioned, whether in small wounds of the intestine attended with protrusion, the safety of the patient is in- creased by the use of the suture or ligature ; for it has been shown, that without it effu- sion is scarcely to be apprehended ; and the application of the ligature, and its presence in the abdomen, may possibly excite or aggra- vate inflammation, which is the great evil to be feared in such cases. M ben the wound in the intestine is exten- sive, there are strong reasons for the employ- ment of the suture. If large wounds of the intestine are left to be repaired by the * Inquiry, p. 1G9. 2 Ibid. p. 178.