S'5 CORNEA. 3 H 2 general, easily turned out of its nidus by means of the small silver spatula. If any part of a foreign body sticking in the cornea pro- jects, it is to be seized with a forceps, and drawn out ; but if it does not project, it is necessary to use a pointed instrument, such as a large, and rather blunt cataract needle, for its dislodgement. In doing this, great care should be taken not to cause any abrasion of the cornea, and never to scrape it, with the intention of removing, for instance, the brown speck left by the oxydation of a fragment of iron, such a speck it is well not to interfere with. When the foreign body is irregular in shape, and has penetrated the cornea obliquely, and to some extent, it may be necessary to make an incision with a cataract knife, so as to expose the body, which is then to be seized with a forceps, or turned out with the spatula. It is to be remarked, however, that when a body cannot be readily got at, attempts at ex- traction should not be continued too long, for more injury may result from this, than from the presence of the foreign body. By and by, it becomes loose, and is then more easily ex- tracted. Chemical Injuries. That the eye can bear a great deal in this way is proved by the strong stimulants fre- quently applied to it by way of treatment, and by the circumstance that melted pitch, tallow, and even lead, have fallen into the eye with- out any very bad ultimate result. In some cases, however, the effects of such injuries are both severe and destructive. When gunpowder is exploded into the eye, besides the burn w'hich may result, the grains fix in the conjunctiva, and in the cornea, and unless carefully picked out with a small spatula, or the point of a cataract needle, the membrane will close over them, so that they will remain indelible, and the cornea become opaque *. It is generally the lower part of the cornea, Dr. Mackenzie remarks, p. 348, which suffers most from the explosion of gunpowder into the eye ; but in an instance which came under his observation, as the person was in the act of stooping to the ground when the powder exploded, it was the upper half of each cornea that received the injury, and was left opaque. Lime in any state, but especially when un- slaked, getting into the eye, is very fatal to it. The cornea may be at once altogether destroyed, or, if the injury has not taken place to such an extent, the epidermic part of its conjunctival layer, at least, is immediately decomposed. It becomes white, rises in a blis- ter, and, ultimately, peels of}', leaving the pro- per substance of the cornea perfectly smooth, and presenting more or less of a blue pearly whiteness2. If the vascular stratum of the conjunctiva corneae has not been injured, and if the inflam- 1 Mackenzie, Practical Treatise, 3d ed. p. 227. 2 Mackenzie, Treatise, &c. mation which follows is moderate, the epider- mic part is slowly regenerated, and the trans- parency of the cornea may be nearly restored. But if the lime has acted more deeply, or severe inflammation has ensued, the cornea never again becomes clear. WThen sulphuric acid has been intruded into the eye, the conjunctiva appears almost scar- red, being white, soft, and swollen. It after- wards peels off, while the cornea rapidly be- comes disorganized, by infiltration of pus, ulceration and sometimes sloughing ; a raw surface is left both on the ball and on the in- side of the lids, ready to unite and close the eye, by an incurable and almost total symble- pharon. In other cases partial symblepharon is the result1. Though the immediate effects of the injury may not be to such an extent as the above, Dr. Mackenzie remarks, that dan- gerous symptoms, such as onyx and iritis, are apt to occur, in such cases, weeks from the receipt of the injury. Symblepharon, to a greater or less extent, is also a common effect of injury from the intrusion of lime into the eye2. Abrasions, Contusions, and punctured and incised Wounds of the Cornea. These may be all complicated with the injuries already described. Though the surface of the cornea may be touched without inconvenience, a sudden wipe on it, with a handkerchief, for instance, causes considerable uneasiness, lacrymation, and in- tolerance of light for a time. Abrasion of the cornea is sometimes pro- duced by a scratch of the finger-nail, by awrk- ward attempts to remove a foreign body, or it is the result of a stroke w'ith an ear of corn, an accident to which reapers are much ex- posed. Sometimes the cornea is contused by a foreign body striking it, and then flying off. The puncture or incision made in the cornea in operations generally heals soon and kindly 5 and even wounds produced by accident some- times heal beyond expectation, though they are not unfrequently followed by severe and destructive inflammation. Such a result is readily accounted for by the contusion of the whole eye attending the accident, by the irre- gularity of the wound, perhaps a bad state of health at the time, and, not unfrequently, by the neglect with which the case is apt to be treated at first. If ordinary caution had been taken in the following case, it is not unlikely that the eye would speedily have recovered, as has happened in many similar instances. A quarryman, young and healthy, was struck on the eye with a splinter of stone. The appearance I found, on examination, will, perhaps, be best described by saying, that the cornea was cracked in its vertical diameter. 1 Mackenzie, Treatise, p. 226. 2 See further on the subject, articles Eve and Ophthalmia.