645 CANCER, TREATMENT OF. to impart vigour to the frame by suitable diet and regimen.” For these purposes he recom- mends tonic infusions with liquor ammonias acetatis or with the alkaline carbonates and conium or hyoscyamus ; bichloride of mercury in the compound tincture of cinchona or com- pound decoction of sarsaparilla ; or small doses of blue pill or hydrargyrum cum creta with camphor and some one of the narcotic ex- tracts ; the phosphates of iron combined with conium, or the sulphates of quinine and zinc. The condition of the bowels must be carefully watched and due alvine action obtained by mild aperients, or laxative enemata. The internal use of opium and its preparations, especially of the salts of morphia (the bime- conate would appear to possess some particu- lar claims to notice in this disease) must be had recourse to for the relief of pain : but the longer the exhibition of anodynes can be postponed the better. The ill effects of opium on the stomach and bowels have led to a trial of the salts of morphia by the endermic method, and, as it is alleged, with excellent results. The cuticle should not, of course, be removed for the purpose in the immediate vicinity of the disease. The diet of cancerous patients should be regulated by their capabilities of digestion ; the mere cramming of food into a stomach incapable of aiding in its assimilation is as po- sitively deleterious, as the system of starvation enforced by the practitioners of the Brous- saisian school. The advantages of rigid absti- nence have, it is true, been enforced on purely practical grounds : Pouteau flattered himself he had radically cured several patients by limiting their nourishment to five or six pints of iced water daily for a period of about two months ; Pearson and Lambe in this country and Hufeland in Germany were also advo- cates for extreme restriction in diet. At the present day starvation is frequently enforced as an adjunct to the local antiphlogistic treat- ment ; but though patients are by these means rapidly reduced to a state of marasmus, their cancers flourish as before. Such treatment promotes the rapid occurrence of debility and sinking, which unfit the organism wholly for combating with the destructive influence of the disease. Suffice it to say that experienced practitioners in this country are agreed as to the appropriateness of a light, easily digestible, succulent diet, where no special circumstance exists to contraindicate it. Stimulants of all kinds are decidedly injurious. The hygeienic condition of the patient generally should be carefully attended to, cheerfulness of mind promoted as far as possible, and participa- tion in private and public amusements, so long as circumstances admit of this, en- joined. Whether change of climate possess any influence on the progress of carcinoma is an unsettled point. Unless at the very out- set of the disease, and more particularly as a prophylactic measure, little is, we fear, to be hoped from it. It might be coupled with the use of mineral waters ; those of Karlsbad, Marienbad, Ems, &c. are recommended by the German authors’. In a small number of cases referred to by writers, where the pa- tients removed at an advanced stage of the disease from a cold to a warm latitude or vice versa, no apparent amelioration resulted from the change : “ ccelum non morbum mutant qui trans mare currunt.” But no fair inference can be drawn from such cases. Ablation.— On the importance of having early recourse to ablation, we have already insisted ; it remains for us to consider the cir- cumstances which in particular cases contra- indicate the operation, and some other points connected with it. Prudent surgeons will not advise removal of carcinoma,—1, when such adhesions or local extensions of the primary disease exist, as would render it impossible to remove the mass completely either by excision or by am- putation of a limb ; 2, when the disease is manifestly spreading or in a state of active growth ; 3, when the existence of internal carcinoma is even probable ; 4, when the can- cerous cachexia is thoroughly established ; 5, when the disease has existed for a number of years in an almost stationary condition ; gives rise to no serious derangement of health, and is rather an inconvenience than a malady. To these prohibitory conditions should be added, in the majority of cases, enlargement and in- duration of the lymphatic glands in commu- cation with the diseased part; such condition, however, does not amount to an absolute con- tra-indication of the operation, though it dimi- nishes materially the chances of success ; the change in these bodies may be simply irrita- tive, and disappear after the removal of the primary disease, and they have, when really cancerous, been successfully excised. Desault, Amussat, Lisfranc, and others appear to think enlargement of the glands hardly any hinder- ance to ablation, when recent2. Extreme de- bility, provided it depend on pain and repeated haemorrhage, and do not coexist with the cache- xia, though diminishing the probability of suc- cess, does not absolutely ensure failure : it rests with the surgeon to balance the dangers of the operation against the degree of strength and vital energy of the patient, and act accord- ingly. The same consideration is applicable in cases of very advanced age, and where the manual part of the operation or its immediate consequences are attended with serious risk to life. The presence of even extensive ul- ceration did not, in several cases on record, prevent a fortunate issue to the operation ; but with respect to the cachexia, few practical surgeons will deny the general truth of the proposition above laid down, although in a few instances which may be found scattered through works from the time of Morgagni* downwards, ablation has been followed by disappearance of the general state thus desig- ' The particular water to be recommended, will of course vary in different cases. ■ Oar. Med. de Paris, 1835, p. 143. 3 Ep. 50. Art. lb'.