AMPUTATION. 115 vent the uniting of any part of the wound by first intention. It is better to tie too many than too few, especially as some which from retracting or some other cause, furnish no blood for a short period from the completion of the operation, are sometimes apt to bleed afterwards; and the fewer there are taken up, the more firm and compressive must be the dressing applied to the stump. In general, the French surgeons tie more than it is cus- tomary to secure in this country, and in my opinion, more than is absolutely requisite : it is, however, erring on the safe side. The precise number of arteries which it may be proper to tie cannot be foretold with exactness ; that must depend on their volume, number, and disposition to bleed in the part, and, in these respects, they are not often the same in the same parts. The difference is sometimes very great, and may belong to a peculiar condition of the limb, induced or not by the disease which rendered amputation ne- cessary. After an amputation performed by M. Maijolin for gangrena senilis, more than twenty arteries required ligatures ; and in the amputation of an arm which had been the seat of an aneurism, treated unsuccessfully by the ligature of the brachial artery, the operator, Professor Richerand, had scarcely divided the soft parts when streams of blood spouted from about twenty large arteries which it was found necessary to tie. Haemorrhage from the end of the bone, which very rarely occurs, is to be averted by pressure exercised for a short time with a small thick pledget of lint, or by plugging the canal containing the bleeding artery with a piece of softened wax. Where the arteries of the limb have under- gone the bony or osteo-cretaceous transfor- mation, more than ordinary precautions may be necessary to secure the larger ones. In most cases of this sort it will be proper to use in preference to the large flat ligature recom- mended by the French, a round ligature twice or thrice the thickness of that usually employed ; but if an artery has become so brittle as to give way to this, I would recom- mend tying it over some cylindrical body in- troduced into its canal, and not applied ex- ternally, as advised by Scarpa, and most of the French surgeons, for I believe it to be rather in the change of form than from any constriction exercised upon it that the vessel is apt to crack. For such arteries the French surgeons re- commend the use of a broad flat ligature, and sometimes the interposition between it and the arterial tunic of a small cylinder of linen or diachylon plaster whereon to tie the knot so as to close the artery by flattening rather than by circular constriction as advised by Scarpa. But I believe that the twisting which a flat ligature makes at the knot, and which it is apt to make elsewhere, will be found more cutting, and therefore more likely to divide the artery than any part of a round one. I am, therefore, inclined to believe that we can- VOL. I. not do better in these cases than use a round ligature twice or tlTrice the size of that usually employed. If, perchance, the tunics of an artery were found so completely ossified and brittle that they could in no way be brought together without breaking, probably the best plan would be to tie them over a small plug of linen introduced into the arterial canal. It is stated by many surgical writers, that one or more of the veins may bleed so much as to require ligatures ; and it was the practice of Dessault and of Mr. Hey after amputation of the thigh, to include the femoral vein and artery in the same ligature. We confess we have never seen such a practice necessary al- though we conceive there may be considerable venous haemorrhage where no valve is inter- posed between the junction of branches with the bleeding vein and its orifice ; and more especially after amputations performed near the trunk. It ought always to be dispensed with, if possible. The pressure of the dress- ing will generally prevent this reflux of blood, which may be always known to be venous from its colour, and which often flows from there being some slight temporary check to its return towards the heart. In those amputations where the circulation cannot be sufficiently commanded, and where a great number of vessels must be divided, especially, if in such cases the patient happens to be one who cannot afford to lose much blood, it may be desirable to tie the principal artery of the limb before it is divided. This is often done with advantage in amputations at the hip and shoulder-joints, either as a pre- liminary measure, or before the division of the soft parts is completed. Some unforeseen circumstance may also render it necessary to stop the bleeding from a large artery after its division, prior to the completion or' the am- putation. In a case of amputation of the thigh, in which, from the inadequacy of the pressure exercised on the femoral artery, a terrible stream of blood spouted from this vessel the moment it was divided, Dupuytren instantly seized the artery with his left hand, while with the right he completed the opera- tion, in his usual masterly style, as if nothing- had happened. When all the ligatures are applied, it is usual to cut off one string of each of them, near the knot, in order to diminish, as much as possible, the quantity of foreign matter to be left in the wound. It will be better for the assistant to do this for every ligature as soon as it is applied. They will thus be prevented from being entangled; the time often neces- sary to disentangle them will be spared, and there will be no risk of cutting away both parts of the same ligature. The remaining strings are to be collected, according to their proximity to one another, in one or more bun- dles, each of which is to be left out at that part of the margin of the stump, where it will least interfere with the union of the wound. Here the surgeon will feel the advantage of having employed small ligatures. In general* L