EAR, AND HEARING, DISEASES OF. 49 by their turns. The spongy appearance of the bony matter in the central space is owing to its being pervaded by numerous small canals for the transmission of the filaments of the cochlear nerve. The base of the axis corresponds to the anterior part of the inferior depression at the bottom of the internal auditory meatus, and presents the commencing orifices of the small canals just mentioned, arranged in a spiral manner, corresponding to the turns of the cochlea. The passages into which the tube of the cochlea is subdivided are called scalce, and the partition lamina spiralis. The spiral lamina is partly bony and partly membranous. The bony part of the spiral lamina is coiled round the axis or central pillar of the cochlea like the stairs in a spiral staircase. The internal or central margin of the bony spiral lamina is inserted on the axis. Its peripheral margin is free in the dry bone, so that the two scalae are not found completely separated from each other, as in the recent state, when the mem- branous extension of the spiral lamina exists. The aqueducts are two canals of very minute calibre, opening by one extremity in the laby- rinthic cavity, and by the other on the surface of the petrous bone. One, called aqueductus vestibuli communicates with the vestibule ; the other, aqueductus cochlece, with the tympanic scala of the cochlea near the fenestra rotunda. Fig. 199. Fig. 199. Labyrinthic cavity of the right side, mag- nified two diameters, a, Superior horn of the ves- tibule ; b. Posterior ami inferior horn; c. Anterior and inferior horn leading into the coeldea; d. He- mispherical depression ; e, Hemi-elliptical depres- sion ; f Pyramidal elevation between the two having a porous sieve-like appearance from being pervaded by canals for the passage of nervous filaments ; g, Su- perior vertical semicircular canal; h, Its ampullary dilatation ; i, Posterior vertical semicircular canal; k, Its ampullary dilatatioti; l, Caned common to the superior and posterior vertical semicircular canals ; in, Orifice by which the common canal opens into the vestibule; n, Horizontal semicircular canal; o. Its ampidlary dilatation; p, Vestibular orifice of the aqueduct of the vestibule; q, Osseous part of the spiral lamina, seen from the surface which corresponds to the vestibular scala ; r, r, Space which is occupied by the membraneous part of the spiral lamina; s, Ha- mulus or hook in which the bony spiral lamina ends ; t, Helicoircma ; n, Substance of the petrous bone be- tween the first turns of the cochlea ; v, Orifice of the aqueducttis cochlece. The cavities of the osseous labyrinth just described, are lined by a delicate membrane of a serous or fibro-serous nature, which must not be confounded with the membranous labyrinth. vor,. u. From the part of this membrane which lines the tympanic scala of the cochlea, the inner layer of the membrane of the fenestra rotunda is derived. The lining of the tym- panic scala and that of the vestibular scala, applying themselves against each other at the free margin of the bony portion of the spiral lamina, complete the spiral septum of the cochlea. The part of the membrane lining the vestibule, is, on the one hand, continuous with that of the vestibular scala of the cochlea, and, on the other, with that of the semicircu- lar canals, and gives an investment to the base of the stapes and the ligament which, toge- ther with it, closes the fenestra ovalis. Lastly, the same membrane lines the aqueducts. Under the osseous scale, on the surface of the petrous bone, where the aqueduct of the vestibule ends, there is a small triangular pouch produced by a separation of the dura mater into two layers. Into this pouch the lining membrane of the aqueduct enters, and ends in a cul-de-sac. The pouch is called by Cotugno the membranous cavity of the aqueduct. The aqueduct of the cochlea ends in a similar manner. A point in the anatomy of the cochlea worthy of notice is the opening, called heli- cotrema, by which alone the two scalae com- municate in the recent state, and by which the lining membrane of the tympanic scala is continuous with that of the vestibular scala : it is situated at the summit of the cochlea, and is formed by the spiral lamina ceasing at its termination to be connected with the axis. The circumference of it is formed, two-thirds by the free concave margin of the hook-like termination of the bony spiral lamina, the rest by the membranous zone of the spiral lamina. Of the two scalae of the cochlea one, scala tympani, communicates with the cavity of the tympanum through the medium of the fenes- tra rotunda and its membrane; the other scala vestibuli, opens by an oval orifice freely into the vestibule, and it is only by means of the communication that the tj'mpanic scala has, with the vestibular scala, through the helicotrema, that, in the recent state, the for- mer communicates with the rest of the laby- rinthic cavity. The cavities of the osseous labyrinth con- tain a liquid, the secretion, probably of their thin lining membrane just described. They contain no air, as was formerly supposed. The liquid called perilymph must not be con- founded with another which is contained in the interior of the membranous labyrinth, and called endolymph. The perilymph occupies, in the vestibule and semicircular canals, all the space not taken up by the membranous labyrinth. The cochlea contains nothing but it, and as all the cavities of the osseous laby- rinth communicate, it is the same humour in each. The membranous labyrinth is an extremely delicate and complicated membrano-nervons apparatus, contained in the labyrinthic cavity. It docs not extend into all the compartments E