4 S3 ASPHYXIA. air. The larynx then being held backwards and compressed laterally between the fingers and thumb of an assistant, air should be cau- tiously impelled into the lungs. Having in- troduced a moderate quantity of air in this manner, the chest and abdomen should be compressed, so as to expel it, and this opera- tion should be repeated regularly and steadily, until natural respiration begins, or until this and other measures have been persevered in for a long time. Dr. Currie recommends that these means should be continued “ at least six hours without any appearance of returning life The bellows which is represented at Fig. 115 is double valved, a the graduated arc, b c the valve which, moved in the di- rections of the dotted lines, per- mits the air ex- pelled from the lungs during ex- piration to escape from the bellows. Leroy has also in- vented an appara- tus for the purpose of warming the air before injecting it into the lungs. Fig. 116 represents a copper vessel in which the air is heated. There is a valve at d. The two stop-cocks, b and c, permit the air in the reservoir to escape Fi<r. 116. Fi°\ 117. when lt is t0° hot- ’ This air-vessel is to be heated by a spirit- lamp, (Fig. 117,) placed in the centre of a reflector, such as is represented in Fig. 118. The reflector is formed of two half circles, articulated to- gether, so as to envelope the reser- voir, as is shown in Fig. 1 19 ; openings are made in the upper part to permit the smoke to escape. In Fig. 118, which repre- Fig. 118. Fig. 119. 1 Kay on Asphyxia, op. cit. VOL. I. sents the concavity of the reflector, are eight metallic prominences d, d, d, d, intended to keep the reflector always at an equal distance from the reservoir. The experiments of Leroy and Majendie, which we have already referred to, are so de- cisive as to the necessity of using the utmost caution in introducing air into the lungs, that the following observations of Dr. Kay cannot have too wide a circulation. “ To men of great professional skill, and especially, when they are deeply imbued with a consciousness of the dangers encountered in this operation, the common double-valved bel- lows and common curved tubes may be en- trusted, when other instruments are not at hand. Such men alone can ever be permitted to inflate the lung from the nostril with com- mon kitchen bellows, as has been formerly recommended and practised ; but which ope- ration should never be performed, excepting in an extreme emergency, and then with a cau- tion and skill which few can be expected to possess. To the danger of rupturing the air- cells by violence, or by an accumulation of air in the chest, is, under these circumstances, added the risk of inflating the stomach and bowels with air, and thus compressing the lungs. The dangers accompanying this me- thod are therefore so great, that it is not described lest it should be rashly practised by improper persons.” The performance of tracheotomy, although recommended by surgeons of eminence, is now justly abandoned. All that is desired for the inflation of the lungs, can be accomplished by the introduction of a canula through the glottis, without encountering the delay which attends the operation of making an opening into the windpipe, or subjecting the patient, should our efforts be successful, to the after consequences of such a proceeding. An apparatus has been invented by Mr. Read, which possesses the advantages of being both simple and safe in its application, and of enabling the operator to withdraw from the windpipe and its ramifications, a portion of the deteriorated air before introducing a fresh uantity. It consists of a syringe or pump Fig. 120, 1.) which contains by exact measure- ment fourteen cubic inches ; a mouth-piece or Fig. 120. F r