750 CAUSTICS. is to bo brought to the desired stiffness by- trituration with the remainder of the dry in- gredients, well beat up for a few seconds, and then rolled out into cakes or wafers, of from half a line to four lines in thickness. The quantity of water must be proportionally aug- mented according to the increased amount of flour in the second and third formulae. The antimonial paste No. 4. is to be moulded into a crayon shape ; because, as it preserves al- ways the consistence of soft wax, a suitable thickness can be given to it, so as to adapt it to unequal and nodulated surfaces. The paste No. 1, four lines thick, applied during two days, is capable of producing an eschar of an inch and a half in depth. The same paste, three lines thick, applied during the same space of time, will furnish an eschar of one inch in depth ; the same compound, two lines thick, will in two days determine an eschar of about half an inch. A layer of one line in thickness will yield in twenty-four hours an eschar of three lines ; while one of half a line will produce in the same time an eschar of at least one line. These changes will manifest themselves with the above precision only in tissues endued with a considerable share of vitality, and of which the consistence is nearly normal. In the brawn-like f lardace J, almost fibro-cartilaginous structure, about one-third is to be deducted from the thickness of the eschar above men- tioned. The paste No. 2 is employed in the instance of painful cancerous affections ; and No. 3 in that of very delicate and irritable subjects. In tumours that are voluminous and pro- minent, instead of applying the caustic on the anterior segment, we may surround the base with a ring of paste two lines broad and four deep ; should the tumour again present a central depression, its destruction may be ac- complished by using the phagedenic jniste in a spiral form. As the wheaten flour prescribed in the above formulas is apt to envelop the chloride in a glutinous dough, which tends to blunt its power, or, at any rate, to confine its action to the particles on the surface of the paste, I have been in the habit of substituting an- hydrous gypsum in its stead. This, while it can exercise no chemical action upon the chloride, forms a porous medium, through which the whole particles of the deliquescent chloride may transude upon the morbid sur- face, with the effect of decomposing or de- stroying it with certainty to any definite depth'. When the integuments are sound, the epi- dermis may be removed by means of a blister, and on the following day one or other of the above preparations, corresponding to the thickness of the tissue to be destroyed, is to be applied to the cutis of the diseased part. I have generally employed, as more conve- vient for this purpose, the caustic ammonia or 1 Loudon Medical Gazette, vol. xviii. the hydrate of potash. Mons. Canquoin com- mences in the case of tumours by one, two, or three applications of the caustic of Vienna, re- newed at intervals of twelve or twenty-four hours. This mode of proceeding tends to accelerate the cure and to diminish the inten- sity of the pain. The chloride of zinc paste may be always advantageously superimposed over the last eschar formed by the other caustic. Where, on the other hand, the sur- face is ulcerated, he begins with the com- pound of quick-lime and soap formerly de- scribed ; a layer of this from five to six lines thick being laid on the part for twenty-four hours. When the operation of the paste is com- plete, it may be gently taken off, and the eschar covered with an emollient poultice, or if it be small, with folds of moist lint, sur- mounted with oil silk, until its separation ; which usually happens, as formerly stated, from the eighth to the twelfth day, according to the thickness of the layer employed. The application is to be repeated again and again till the whole morbid structure is removed ; after which the surface heals rapidly under the use of the water-dressing, followed by strapping with adhesive plaister. When fre- quent repetition is necessary, Mons. Canquoin alternates the use of the caustic of Vienna with the phagedenic paste. I adduce the two following cases to show' how completely this most powerful agent is under the control of the surgeon, both as to superficial extent and profundity. In the spring of 1838 a gentleman connected with Lloyd’s consulted me, by the advice of Dr. Porter of Portsea, for a tubercular sore, about the size of a fourpenny piece, situated upon the nose, over the junction of the cartilage with the nasal bones. He had been for four months previous to my seeing him under the care of an eminent surgeon, belonging to one of the borough hospitals, but without deriving any benefit. A single application of the gyp- sum paste sufficed to remove the morbid sur- face, leaving a healthy sore, which was cica- trized in less than three wreeks. The part has remained well ever since, and the scar is scarcely perceptible. In the month of January, 1839, a gentleman, about seventy years of age, applied to me in consequence of an indurated tubercle of a dark livid aspect, occupying the surface of the left ala nasi. It had existed for about nine months, and was the seat of occasional darting pain. As lie was desirous of having it re- moved, I applied a thin layer of the gypsum paste, in the presence of Mr. Parsons of Cnr- zon-street, Mayfair. The eschar separated in nine days; and in little more than a week after, the resulting sore was perfectly healed, the semi-malignant growth being completely eradicated. In most cases I am disposed to believe that the chloride of zinc operates, in virtue of its powerful affinity for albumen ; a fact first pointed out in a paper published by me in the