BURNS AND SCALDS. 518 Bals. Copail). Jiij. M. 1 Dr. Fricke in Casper's Wochensclirift, No. 1.1833. This new tissue, usually developed from the circumference to the centre, closes in a short time the breach of continuity, as it were, by a Hap of integument, transplanted by an operation of autoplasty from the neighbouring skin. He maintains that the cicatrix is more solid and permanent than that obtained by other me- thods. The chlorides are found to answer chiefly in the first and second degrees of burn, and are said to diminish inflammation and pain. The lotion is prepared by dissolving from four to six ounces of the chloride of lime in a pound of water. Its strength, however, ought to be such, that the heat and gentle pruritus expe- rienced on its being applied, shall not last more than ten or fifteen minutes. If they ex- ceed that period, the solution is to be diluted. The whole burned surface is to be covered with lint imbued with the solution and en- closed with a piece of lint spread with cerate and pierced with holes. It must be kept constantly moist. When there are vesicles they are to be opened and the epidermis removed. In other hands, however, it would appear that this method has not answered bet- ter than those commonly adopted. It appears to me that the cases in which these saline solutions are of utility, are those in which a fetid suppuration is emitted, whose bad quali- ties require to be corrected. Creosote has been brought forward by its discoverer, Dr. Reichenbach.as a topical stimu- lant, whose action serves to accelerate greatly the cure of burns. It is employed in solution, and may be prepared by adding two parts of creosote to 100 parts of warm water. Com- presses dipped in this are to be applied to the affected surfaces. This lotion, however, is nowise superior to those mentioned formerly. Dupuytren’s practice was to keep the burnt parts constantly covered with pledgets, mois- tened with a cold, aqueous solution of di- acetate of lead. This lotion he believed to possess a two-fold virtue, being both astrin- gent and sedative. It decolours the skin, counteracts the afflux of fluids, and alleviates pain. The following plan has been recommended to prevent disfiguration from the scars caused by burns. Having opened the vesicles and allowed the contained fluid to escape, the part is directed to be touched with a stick of lunar caustic until dry, the epidermis being, as far as possible, saved from being detached. The pain soon subsides, and when the burn is inconsiderable, a single application is said to suffice. Should suppuration, however, ensue, the part must be again touched with the caustic. The crust that is formed covers the whole injured part and falls off in a few days, leaving a new, smooth, and even skin1. We are assured the same object can be ef- fected by employing a somewhat different procedure. Cloths dipped in cold water are laid upon the burnt parts, and in the lapse of from twenty-four to forty-eight hours, when the vesicles formed have put on a gummy ap- pearance, the elevated cuticle, forming their envelope, is to be removed with a pair of scissors ; this prevents suppuration and con- sequent scarring >. In cases of injury from the deflagration of gunpowder, the grains should be carefully picked out with a needle from the rete mu- cosum in which they are lodged, to prevent inflammation, and subsequent disfigurement, especially if the face be the part concerned. A poultice is to be afterwards applied. When vesications exist, we should not be in a hurry to open them. For this practice we have the high authority of Sir B. Brodie. The fluid becomes sometimes absorbed in a few days, by time new cuticle is generated, and when the dead cuticle peels off, the part is found restored to its normal condition. If, however, the vesicles are distended almost to bursting, so that great pressure is made on the cutis, when the pain and inflammation begin to diminish, puncturing with a needle at the most dependent part, and letting out a por- tion of the fluid, and repeating this from time to time, will be proper. It is not prudent to remove the epidermis which protects the nervous papillae from the action of the air and the dressing. If some days have elapsed, after having given issue to the serosity con- tained in the phlyctenae, the surface of the cutis is found secreting pus which escapes with difficulty, then the epidermis is to be stripped away, in order to favour the desicca- tion of the pus. Its removal at this time is not attended with pain. In burns of the fourth and fifth degrees, as the sensibility of the injured parts is in a great measure impaired or annihilated, a more powerful stimulus is required than any of those hitherto noticed. Here terebinthi- nate applications will be found to be most efficacious, an excellent practice first intro- duced by Dr. Kentish. He directed the parts to be covered with rags dipped in oil ot tur- pentine. When there is much depression of the powers of life, the turpentine ought to be applied tepid. This treatment is to be continued until the eschar begins to separate at the margins, and even longer. Instead of the oil of turpentine, which from its fluidity is often unmanageable, the lini- mentum terebinthinae, or Venice turpentine mixed with various proportions of cerate, may be employed, as recommended by Dr. Perry of Glasgow. I have seen the best effects pro- duced by the last, of which the great advan- tage is, that, it forms a plastic application, the strength of which can be regulated at discre- tion. Sir B. Brodie advises a liniment con- sisting of equal parts of green digestive 2 and oil of turpentine, which is the approved appli- cation at St. George’s Hospital. By these means the pain is relieved, and 1 Dr. Tott in v. Grafc& L. Walthers, Journal dcr Cliir. und Augenheilk. ltd. xix. H. 3. 850. 2 Green digestive is prepared a9 follows: R.—Fng. Elemi, lbiij. Ung. Sambuci, Sij.