EMPHYSEMA. 85 must always be carefully sought for. We are told, that some time since it was the habit ot the prisoners at Bicetre, when desirous of gaining admission to the infirmary, to prick the inner surface of the cheek with a pin, and then, having closed the mouth and nostrils carefully, to make several strong expirations : the air soon insinuated itself into the cellular membrane of the face and neck, forming a tumour in those regions, which the malingerer announced as a result of dental irritation. The anatomical characters of the swelling make the imposture evident. Numerous other ex- amples of artificial emphysema, which may sometimes be so extensive as to require active treatment for its relief, will be found in the Dictionnaire des Sciences Medicales. It appears from the statement of M. A- chard ', that injection of air into the cellular membrane, was, in his time, methodically had recourse to in Guinea, as a cure for maras- mus, hypochondriasis, and rheumatism. This author, reminding us of the sources whence our knowledge of inoculation, and of the pro- perties of bark, was originally derived, recom- mends a serious investigation of the practice, in which he himself led the way by injecting gases of various kinds into the cellular mem- brane of animals. Haller, it is stated, became a convert to the propriety of the practice ; and more recently, Professor Breschet thought it worthy of being made the subject of expe- rimental inquiry 2. In his work on Tetanus, W. Trnka quotes a singular account from Fakkenberg, of which the following is an abridgment:—An .(Ethio- pian boy, aged about ten years, on board ship off the coast of Angola, was seized with sym- ptoms of pleurisy. He was bled twice, and otherwise treated with good effect in respect of the pleuritic attack ; but upon the third day signs of tetanus appeared. The usual means were tried for the removal of these, but in vain. On the thirteenth day the pa- tient was moribund. Fakkenberg determined, amid the derision of the ship’s company, to try the effect of a practice he had seen pur- sued by the ^Ethiopians ; namely, insufHation of the cellular tissue. He accordingly in- flated the entire body, from the cellular mem- brane of the thigh. The patient appeared to revive in an hour after the operation : on the following day he was able to separate his jaws a little ; thenceforth gradually improved, and ultimately recovered, to the great astonish- ment (at which we by no means marvel) of all the witnesses 3. 1 Nouv. Memoires dcl’Acad. Rov. de Berlin, 1783, p. 20. 2 The radical cure of hydrocele has been effected by the injection of air into the cavity of the tunica vaginalis, (Riccardi, Annotazioni Prat, sulle princip. Mallattie della Vaginale e del Tcsticolo, p. 12. Na- poli, 1836,) and of chlorine gas (Deconde, in Biit. and For. Med. Rev. vol. ii. p. 267). M. Deconde would extend this mode of using chlorine to the treat- ment of encysted tumours with fluid contents. See also Gallaudat, in Mem. dc l’Acad. de Berlin, 1772. 3 Wenc. Trnka, Comment, de Tctano, pars ii. lib. ii. cap. vii. p. 444. Vindobon. 1777. § III. Idiopathic Emphysema. The period at which putrefaction com- mences after death, varies in respect of a variety of external conditions ; such as the nature of the medium in which the body is placed, its temperature, humidity, &c. But the rapidity with which this important chemi- cal change supervenes, is perhaps more pow- erfully influenced by the state of the solids and fluids themselves, than by extrinsic agen- cies : the proof of this is, that of two bodies placed in the same media, one may remain for several days without exhibiting signs of decomposition, while the other rapidly runs into the putrefactive fermentation. Such, in- deed, is the proneness to chemical change, under certain conditions of the tissues, that putrefaction sets in before the complete ex- tinction of life in the subject; a fact placed beyond all doubt by the accurate observations of modern authors. In this way, a develop- ment of gas occasionally takes place in the subcutaneous and visceral cellular membrane, serous cavities, interior of the heart, and blood vessels. To this cause Huxham ascribed the deve- lopment of emphysema in a patient affected with putrid fever, sore throat, and non-coagu- lable condition of the blood ; and states his persuasion, that this more frequently happens in putrid malignant fevers, than is commonly imagined. Similar cases have since been ob- served ; and Dr. Copland considers the ap- pearance of emphysema about the head and upper part of the breast, as not rare in scarlet fever and analogous diseases. In all probability, the emphysema stated by Frank to have formed one of the ordinary closing phenomena in two epidemics of fever, German and Italian, as well as that occasion- ally noticed in yellow fever, is referrible to the same class. The same may be said of certain epizooties, wherein, according to the same writer and William Hunter, the animals affected became locally or generally emphy- sematous. With these examples of commencing de- composition during life, should, as it appears to us, be classed a case related by M. Bally at a meeting of the Academy of Medicine. A man, aged 25, was admitted to the Hopital Cochin, after fifteen days’ illness, with sym- ptoms of typhoid fever : the left thigh was painful, and, as well as the scrotum, consider- ably swollen. While delirious, the patient affirmed he had been bitten by a dog in the knee, but no trace of such injury could be detected. He died the day after admission, and was examined eight hours after death : the body was soiled with blood, which had transuded through the skin of the thighs and scalp ; there was universal emphysema, espe- cially marked in the left thigh, where the skin wras of a violet-brown colour, and covered with black and white phlyctenae. The Peyer- ian. mesenteric, and splenic lesions, charac- teristic of the continued fever of Paris, pre-