168 AMPUTATION. The whole bulk of this muscle is gTasped, and lifted from the side of the humerus ; a double edged catling is then passed immediately be- low the acromion under the muscle, which it detaches, at a single incision, from the bone to the required extent (b,a, fig. 27). The arm is then quickly brought from the horizontal into parallelism with the trunk. By successive rotatory movements of the head, the tendons of the muscles round the joint are made tense and divided, beginning by those on the back of the joint. The head of the bone is luxated, the assistant pinches up the lower flap, and the limb is detached, as in Lafaye’s method, by cutting the attachments of the pectoralis major, and latissimus dorsi, (b, c, fig. 27). This plan is more simple and expedi- tious than that of Lafaye, while its result is the same. Fig. 28. Fig. 28. Doubleflap, a superior and inferior one, for amputating the arm at the shoulder-joint: the large vessels and nerves are exposed on the surface of the inferior flap; the glenoid cavity of the scapula is seen in the midst of the soft parts, a little below the line of junction of the flaps. The method of forming the deltoid flap may also be reversed. Mr. Cline used to cut the deltoid from its attachment up to the articulation, through which he passed the knife with amazing rapidity, and finished the incision by forming the under flap. In his operation, the whole seemed to be effected in one stroke. He made compression of the artery on the first rib. To do it well requires great habit; but it will be found more expe- ditious even than Dupuytren’s. Lisfranc's plan.—The patient is seated on a chair ; one assistant stands behind him ready to compress the artery in the inferior flap, another at his side to reflect the deltoid flap. The limb is drawn slightly towards the trunk, or allowed to hang down. The surgeon, stand- ing in front or at the side, passes the point of his narrow double-edged knife into the trian- gular space existing between the coracoid process and the anterior and outer edge of the clavicle, in a direction somewhat oblique from above downwards, passing under the acro- mion ; before it reaches the axilla, the handle is raised as much as possible, so as to make the point come out very low down, and within the posterior border of the axilla. He then lays firm hold of the arm and draws it downwards, in order to separate the articular surfaces ; the edge of the knife near the han- dle is next disengaged from the point of the acromion process by depressing it, cutting towards the coracoid process, and then direct- ing the edge of the knife downwards on the out- side of the arm, he forms a flap about three or four inches long (e, d, fig. 27), which is immedi- ately reflected back by the assistant. In this first incision the articulation has been laid open; the head of the humerus is now raised, and the knife is passed through the joint to the inner side; the other assistant seizes the lower flap above the edge of the knife, makes a sign to the surgeon that he commands the artery, who then cuts on the inside of the humerus to form the lower flap (e,f, fig. 27). This plan belongs exclusively to Lisfranc. It has also been reversed both by Champesme and Lisfranc himself. When the operation is performed according to this plan, the point of the knife is made to enter within the bor- der of the axilla, the blade ascending obliquely, so as to form an angle of from 30° to 35° with the axis of the shoulder, the edge turned a little in front, and coming out in the coraco-clavicular space, in front of the acromion. The arm is then pulled downwards, and the point of the knife is pressed towards the coracoid process, so as to free it from the anterior point of the acromion; the flap is then formed as before. The first mode will be most easily followed in amputating the right arm ; the second may be employed for the amputation of the left. This operation is performed with great ra- pidity, and the disarticulation is easily effected, owing to the division, by the first incision of the tendons that cover the back of the joint. With three flaps.—Larrey has performed amputation frequently in the shoulder-joint by the following method :—The arm being carried a little away from the trunk, the sur- geon commences a longitudinal incision at the point of the acromion, prolonging it down- wards in the middle of the deltoid, for three or four inches, and dividing this muscle into two equal parts, (a, b, fig. 27) ; the arm is then put in the horizontal position ; and the knife is passed from the first incision, first behind the humerus, (a, c), then, in front (a,d), till the point, in both instances, shows' itself within the correspond- ing border of the axilla; and two small flaps are thus cut, which the assistants immediately raise and reflect. The articulation thus laid bare above is opened, and the knife carried on the axillary side of the humerus ; time being given for the assistant to command the artery, the inferior flap is formed in the usual way. In forming the first two flaps, the circum- flex artery may be divided ; in that case, the assistant, who has charge of the flap, must stop the haemorrhage by compressing it with his fin- gers, so that the surgeon shall not be diverted