113 EMPYEMA. A notion of the probable result of the operation may be had from the condition of the functions in general; if the conservative functions, digestion and nutrition especially, be only moderately impaired, the chances of the patient’s recovery are much stronger than under the contrary circumstances. The opera- tion has been much more successful in young persons than in those of mature years. The determination of the period of the disease most favourable for operating, is a point of very serious importance. Experience proves, as might have been anticipated, that when performed at an advanced period, para- centesis is rarely successful: the local changes which have then had time to arise in the pleura, pernicious as these are, are even less subversive of success than the deep constitu- tional distress entailed by the disease. And yet, to this period, puncture of the chest is often, we might almost say commonly, post- poned ; it can hardly be matter of surprise, that in some such cases it has appeared to do little more than hasten death. There can be no question that the fitting time for operation has come, when a tendency, insuperable by medical means, exists either to increase or to non-absorption of the fluid. The practical difficulty is to determine the precise period at which such tendency may be considered to be developed. On the one hand, perseverance in a given mode of treatment has sometimes proved successful, when everything seemed to foretell its probable inefficacy ; and on the other, valuable time may be frittered away, and the period at which paracentesis affords real chance of permanent relief but too easily suffered to pass by from the procrastination caused by a very natural anxiety to give more gentle measures a full trial. A thorough con- sideration of the whole history of the case, as also of the existing local and constitutional states, is required to enable the practitioner to seize the propitious moment for surgical interference. This difficulty is unfortunately not confined to the operation for empyema. Let us suppose the operation to be deter- mined on ; the next point of inquiry is the manner of performing it. As a measure of precaution, especially if any doubt exist as to the precise nature of the case, a grooved needle may, as suggested by the late Dr. T. Davies, be introduced into the pleura : if the expected fluid appear, the operation may be continued with a trochar or a bistoury. The trochar is the more advi able instrument, if the intention be to evacuate the fluid by degrees,—an intention which we be- lieve Laennec to have been right in commend- ing, when, 1. the patient is so debilitated as to justify an apprehension that the complete discharge of the fluid might be followed by dangerous syncope ; 2. when paracentesis is merely performed as a palliative in advanced tuberculous cases. Under ordinary circum- stances, the integuments and pleura should be incised with a bistoury. The first point to be ascertained in select- VOL. II. ing the place for the performance of the ope- ration, is the adherence or non-adherence of the lung to the chest, and, in the former case, the precise limits of the adhesions. It is scarcely necessary to say, that the site of these must be carefully eschewed. When the entire side is free from adhesion, the common advice of surgical writers has been, that the opening be made at the most dependent point of the antero-lateral part of the chest. But undiscriminating attention to this advice, given with the sole view of securing free egress for the pleural fluid, has occasionally led to per- foration of the diaphragm and abdominal vis- cera ; even the kidney has been extensively wounded by operators whose practice is to adhere too scrupulously to such injunctions. Laennec recommended the space between the fifth and sixth ribs, a little in front of the digitations of the serratus magnus muscle, as the fittest site for puncture : ani to this ad- vice no objection can be offered in respect of ordinary cases. But as the liver, when en- larged in an upward direction especially, fre- quently reaches as high as the fifth rib, it would perhaps be better on the right side to incise the fourth intercostal space, unless the upper surface of the liver be satisfactorilj ascertained to be below the fifth. The im- portance of opening the fifth instead of the seventh space, has been justly insisted on by Drs. Townsend and Stokes, who draw a fair analogical argument in favour of high punc- ture from the elevated position in which the discharge commonly occurs, when sponta- neous or preceded by the formation of abs- cess. Drs. Stokes and Houston have seen a case of the latter kind, where the tumour formed under the clavicle, and the result was favourable. The opening has sometimes taken place even above that bone. If the ribs cannot be clearly distinguished on account of the presence of marked oedema, some difficulty may arise in fixing upon the spot for incision. Certain rules have been given for discovering the inferior angle of the scapula, and regulating by the relations of this to certain points on the anterior surface the spot for incision; but as these are very likely to prove deceptive, we refrain from detailing them '. Steady and continued pressure with the pulps of the fingers will sometimes enable the operator to discover the edges of the bones, in cases where this would on first view have appeared altogether impossible. The place for operation having been duly determined on, an incision of about two inches in length is to be made through the integuments, and the intercostal muscles carefully divided to the same extent. The cutting instrument should not be carried too close to the borders of the ribs, lest the cor- responding branches of the intercostal artery be wounded; this statement applies especially to the lower border of the upper of each pair of ribs, along which the superior, and of the 1 Vide article Empyeme, Diet, tie Medecine, 2emc edition, t. xi. p. 431.