412 ARTICULATIONS. broad base, which gradually becomes narrower, until it is reduced to a slender peduncle, after which the connexion is speedily broken and the body becomes loose in the joint. This process has been traced through all its stages. Sir B. Brodie has seen them covered by the synovial membrane. Begin1 states that he has met with them sometimes lying beneath the capsule, and scarcely projecting into the joint, at other times hanging by a long and slender peduncle. In the Museum at Guy’s Hospital, is a preparation which shows four of these bodies in the elbow ; two appear to have been lying loose, but the other two are attached to the synovial membrane by slender filaments. In Cruveilhier’s ninth Livraison, a very beautiful plate is given in which these bodies are figured in the knee-joint. Two small ones are lying beneath the synovial membrane without producing much protru- sion ; a third is more prominent, and pushes forwards the membrane distinctly; while a fourth, just ready to be detached, is hanging into the cavity by a long and delicate pedicle. The subject of loose cartilages may, therefore, in consistence with the guidance of a sound pathology, be considered along with the dis- eases of synovial membrane. From the synovial membrane, I proceed to the only tissue which yet remains to be con- sidered. 5. Cartilage.—Articular cartilage presents itself in two forms, either synarthrodial, such as is met with between the sutures of the cra- nium, or diarthrodial, as it occurs in the more complex articulations. In this latter form, it is found to be a dense, very elastic substance, intimately connected by one surface to the head of the bone, and on the other lined by a synovial membrane. After long maceration, it is found to consist of straight and parallel fibres, arising, says Dr. Hunter2, from the bone like the pile of velvet. Its organization is probably inferior to that of any other tissue. Nerves have not been traced into its struc- ture, nor in the healthy state red vessels. “ The cartilages,” says Meckel3, “ do not re- ceive vessels which convey red blood, although in cutting them we frequently perceive dis- tinct vessels in their substance.” From some observations recorded by two careful anato- mists, W. and T. Arnold, in the Physiological Journal of Tiedemann and Treviranus, it appears that in the foetus of the fourth, fifth, and seventh months, the articular and perma- nent cartilages consist of numerous granules. The temporary cartilages exhibit the same structure, but in particular points arc more closely approximated. These points are more distinct as ossification advances. In adults, they state that cartilage appears to be a white mass composed of granules irregularly heaped together. These masses contain interspaces 1 Dictionnairc de Medecine ct Chirurgie Pratique, Art. Corps Etrangcrs. 2 Hunter on the Structure and Diseases of Articu- lar Cartilage. Phil. Trans, vol. xlii. 3 Meckel’s General and Descriptive Anatomy. which are for the most part four, five, or sex- angular, but irregular, and sometimes more of a rounded, ova), or other form. I have been more particular than I should otherwise have been in describing the gene- ral anatomy of cartilage, because Messrs. Velpeau and Cruveilhier, the one the most learned surgeon, the other the most eminent pathologist in France1, have adopted the opinion that the articular cartilage is a mere epidermic crust, endowed with no organic life, and hence insusceptible of disease. These novel opinions are supported by some plausible arguments, and as the influence which they are calculated to exert on our pathological views is of great consequence, it will be necessary to enter into an examination of them. The doctrine was first, I believe, propounded by Cruveilhier, in a paper read before the Philomathie Society, in the latter part of the year 1823, and published in the Archives Generales for February, 1824. The arguments which he adduces are to the follow- ing effect:— 1. Lay bare an articulation : treat the car- tilage violently by pulling, pinching, cutting, or tearing it; and it will evince no signs of inflammation, nor will there be the smallest pain produced. 2. If the spongy extremity of a bone be perforated by a piercing instrument, or a heated iron, and the cartilage bruised or sim- ply touched, without the application of any force to destroy its texture, still the result is the same ; nothing ensues but elimination or absorption. 3. Where necrosis takes place, though fre- quently a very thin lamina of living bone separates the dead bone from the cartilage, the cartilage remains sound. 4. Cartilages laid bare in disarticulations, either fall off or do not become attached to the soft parts. 5. Cartilage, when broken or divided in its continuity, does not offer any token of repara- tive effort. 6. In reading the accounts of the dissections of diseased joints, we generally find the strik- ing clearness and healthy appearance of the cartilage contrasted with the extent of the surrounding lesions. 7. In ankylosis, the cartilage is invariably removed. These arguments are in the main repeated by M. Velpeau, in his Anatomie Chirurgicale. The cartilage, he says, being only an incrus- tation without organic web, cellular tissue, vessels, nerves, or marrow, the whole thick- ness of the cartilage enjoys no sensibility. Hence, it cannot be the primitive seat of any malady. It never inflames nor suppurates. The cellular patches which we sometimes ob- serve over the whole surface of the cartilage are foreign to it. They spring from the 1 The views of these gentlemen may be found in the Archives Generales de Medecine, vol. iv. 1824. Dictionnairc de Medecine et Chirurgie Pratique, art. Articulations. Anatomie Chirurgicale, par Velpeau.