AMAUROSIS. 95 which do not correspond, or rather which have not been previously associated, and a double impression results. Most frequently the strabismus affects one eye only; but I have seen partial and com- plete paralysis of some of the muscles apper- taining to each. The direction of the squint, or the direction of the axis of vision of the affected globe, of course depends upon the seat and extent of the muscular paralysis. I have frequently observed the degree of strabismus to be so slight that it would pro- bably escape ordinary observation, especially under a lateral or oblique view of the eyes ; but it is more commonly so obvious that it must attract the attention of the medical attendant on a superficial inspection. It may be proper to observe that strabismus is frequent from other causes ; when it usually precedes the amaurosis, (imperfection of vision being the result of the strabismus,) and affects only the eye which has its movements impeded or irregularly performed. 3. Of the nerves w'hich supply the muscles of the globe, &c., the third and sixth are most frequently influenced by cerebral disease. I have not been able to detect paralysis of the fourth, and believe that the position of its origin and its course in the cranium render it little liable to be implicated in the most fre- quent cerebral disorders. The third nerve is the one w'hich most fre- quently suffers, and the muscles to which it is distributed have their powrer diminished or destroyed; and according to the degree in which the paralysis exists the following symp- toms are more or less developed. The superior lid drops, the globe is ab- ducted and slightly depressed, so that the axis of vision has a direction outwards and slightly downwards, from the action of the abductor and superior oblique muscles, which alone retain their ordinary power ; the pupil is somewhat dilated, and the iris moves very sluggishly or is fixed, and the vision is imper- fect ; and if the patient has sufficient power of vision to distinguish objects of moderate size with the affected eye, such objects appear double when regarded with both eyes, except when in such a position that the axis of the sound eye is necessarily rendered parallel to that which is nearly fixed in the direction I have mentioned ; it is generally necessary to rai e the superior eyelid to expose the globe and ascertain many of the appearances de- scribed ; and if the patient endeavours to move about when the lid is supported by the finger he is not only confused by the double vision but suffers from giddiness. In consequence of the falling of the superior palpebra, the disease has been named Ptosis, (from irtirrw, to fall). The pupil being invariably dilated in these cases proves, I think, that the branch of the third nerve which joins the lenticular gan- glion is distributed to the iris, and has a ma- terial influence on its motions ; and further, the position of the globe with the axis of vision directed outwards and a little down- wards proves that the action of the superior oblique muscle aids in directing the eye down- wards and outwards. Paralysis of the sixth nerve is much less frequent, and causes the axis of vision to be inclined inwards towards the nose ; and w'hen combined with amaurosis the pupil is not al- ways dilated, but most frequently of natural size, and obeys the influence of light ; the iris is however rarely so active as is natural. 4. There may be amaurosis with a fixed and protruding eyeball, and at the same time dropping of the superior lid, and dilated and fixed pupil; this results from paralysis of all the ocular muscles, and the globe having lost the support of the recti muscles, either falls forwards or is in a degree projected by the elastic cellular structure w’hich exists at the back of the orbit. These various modifications of amaurosis are caused by some cerebral pressure, as thickening of membrane or bone, effusions of fibrin, pus, or serum, as extravasation of blood, as the growth of various tumours ; or they may be produced by the morbid change which has been termed raviollisevicut. There are usually some general circum- stances connected with the cerebral mischief which may aid materially in the diagnosis when the case, as regards the amaurotic disease, is otherwise obscure. Thus the at- tack may have been preceded by mental irri- tability and disinclination to employ the mind, and there may be sensible loss of muscular pow'er, with the commencement and progress of the amaurosis. The pulse is usually slow and laboured, but compressible ; the extremities are cold and the surface pallid, and the patient frequently has cramps when recumbent, and snores much during sleep. There is, in fact, general evi- dence of diminished nervous susceptibility, in the want of activity in the principal functions, in most cases, and in the majority some symp- toms which may, under patient investigation, enable the medical man to form a correct diagnosis ; the importance of which will be made evident shortly. Syphilis and scrofula dispose to organic disease of bone and membrane, which may oc- casion cerebral pressure and amaurosis, and the latter predisposes to the formation of tumours in the substance of the brain, • or in connexion with its tunics. Causes.—Injuries to the head, the effects of which are often very remote ; fevers, with cerebral determination; coup de soleil; in- temperance, gluttony, violent anger, excess of mental labour, and excitement, are the more immediate causes of cerebral mischief: whilst the sudden arrest of any material, natural, or habitual secretion or discharge, or the sup- pression of any long-standing or extensive disease, or anything which produces a sudden tension of the vascular system, predisposes to similar disease, and favours the occurrence of 15