ECTOPIA. 57 organ, whereby the fundus is carried to the right, and the os tincae slightly but propor- tionally to the opposite side, is very frequent during utero-gestation *. Anterior obliquity, when strongly marked, is a morbid state of importance, as the fundus is then thrown so much forwards as occasionally to interfere very materially with the progress of parturi- tion. Oblique inclination of the axis of the injured limb is among the occasional or neces- sary results of luxation and fracture. Devia- tions of the axes of the teeth further illus- trate this displacement1 2. 2. Version. Strictly speaking, version is nothing more than extreme obliquity. It is of three kinds : 8. anteversion. f. retroversion. ?. lateriversion. In all these displacements, when complete, the vertical is rendered the horizontal plane of the implicated part: they differ only in re- gard of the relative positions of the superior and inferior portion of the part displaced; the superior portion being in the first thrown for- wards, in the second backwards, in the third to the right or left, while the inferior portion in each instance assumes the converse posi- tion. The uterus furnishes examples of all three varieties. In anteversion, the fundus of the organ is thrown forwards towards the pubis, and the os tincae raised proportionally upwards towards the promontory of the sacrum : the new relations of the part are shown in fig. 202. Fig. 202. Fig. 202. Anteversion of the uterus in the early period of pregnancy; Vertical section of the pelvis (after 1 Under the head of each variety of ectopia we pro- pose giving a sufficient number of examples to render its nature intelligible : to enumerate all the displace- ments rcferrible to each category would be almost an endless, and certainly a useless task. 2 Professor Velpeau has recently made the devia- tions of the dens sapiential the subject of a valuable lecture, published in the Provincial Med. and Surg. Journal, vol. li. No. 32. May, 1841. Boivin and Dages.) a, Right pubis; o. Bladder driven forwards ; d, Orifice of the urethra ; f Sec- tion of the left Fallopian tube and ovarian ligament; g, Body of the uterus; h. Triangular portion of the lateral surface of the uterus uncovered with perito- naeum ; i, Os uteri; k. Vagina. The converse of this state exists in retro- version : the fundus falls backwards and down- wards into the hollow of the sacrum, while the os tincae rises to the level of, or higher than, the os pubis. Fig. 203. Fig. 203. Retroversion of the uterus in the first periods of pregnancy (after Boivin and Dvges.) a. Right pubis; b, Os uteri; c, Orifice of urethra ; d. Vagina; e, Body of the uterus; f Bladder enormously dis- tended ; g, Rectum ; i, Section of the left Fallopian tube and ovarian ligament. In lateriversion the antero-posterior verti- cal plane becomes horizontal ; and the organ occupies a more or less perfectly transverse position, its superior termination being thrown either to the right or left. This is an exceed- ingly rare displacement of the uterus ; a case described by Ruvsch, however, seems to show the possibility of its occurrence *. The heart furnishes a better illustration of it; the ver- tical is occasionally rendered the transverse axis of this organ by the pressure of abdo- minal tumours 2. b. Deviation of the antero-posterior or trans- verse axis of a part is best exemplified by the abnormal attitudes assumed by the eye. These are comprehended under the general term j]. Luscitas 3. There are two principal varieties of this displacement, arising from abnormal rotation ' Ruysch, Anat. Chir. Centuria, Obs. xxiv. p. 31. Amst. 4to. 1691. 2 Vide a case of ovarian tumour, in which this dis- placement existed, related by Kelch, Hufeland’s Journ. Bd. xxv. St. ii. 8. 194. 1806. 3 Luscitas differs from strabismus. The eye affected with the former is fixed, more or less, immovably in one direction, and cannot, under any circumstances.