CANCER, TREATMENT OF. 0.5 4' lent bronchocele Joes or does not contain some portions of scirrhus or encephaloid ; but the absence of these diseased formations from other organs is a presumption against their existence in the thyroid gland. The operations which may be undertaken for the extirpation of a cancerous thyroid gland are described in the article Goitre. (c.) Thymus.—The language of some of the older writers would lead us to suppose that carcinoma of the thymus is far from uncom- mon. Halier' affirms that this organ “ fre- quently becomes enlarged and affected with scirrhus, along with the conglobate glands ,” that it “ passes into a state of scirrhus, as he and others have seen2.” Haugsted3 justly concludes, that where no description is given of the affected parts, the accuracy of such phrases may be questioned : it is more than probable, indeed, that Haller simply meant to describe induration in using the term. Lieu- taud4 is sometimes more precise in his descrip- tion of the “ scirrhous thymus,” and in these instances the affection appears to have been of tuberculous character. The characters of cancer of this organ—for though beyond doubt it can rarely, judging from the poverty of modern observations on the subject, be the seat of the disease, yet there is no reason to suppose it exempt from it—remain to be investigated. 2. Secreting, (a.) Mamma.— Carcinoma of the breast either occurs as a tumour not intimately involving the tissue of the gland in its early stage, superimposed, as it were, on the surface of the organ and seated among the adipose matter investing it; in which case the adjoining cellular membrane often furnishes a very distinct pseudo-cyst : or the carcinomatous matter is infiltrated in the substance of the organ. When occurring in the first and much the more common form, the disease commences by a small induration, rounded, circumscribed, rolling under the fingers, perhaps most fre- quently seated in the axillary portion of the gland, giving rise to no p^in, and productive of no real inconvenience. As it advances in growth, the surface becomes irregular and knotted, the tumour loses its mobility from the spread of the disease to the tissue of the gland, the occurrence of engorgement in the cellular membrane, or the contraction of ad- hesions with the skin. At this period the characters of this form of the affection re- semble those belonging to the infiltrated variety from its earliest development, as far as the substance of the mamma is concerned. In the infiltrated form the carcinomatous matter affects the glandular structure from the first, increases the weight, density, and ' Opusc. Pathol. Ohs. 45. 2 El. Physiol, t. iii.p. 119. a Thymi in Homine ac per seriem Animalium, De- script. Anat. Pathol, et Physiol. Icon. 34, illustrat. Hufnhe, 1832. 4 Hist. Anat. Med. t. ii. pp. 118, 851, p. 90. Obs. 761, 763. size of the organ, and never constitutes a distinctly superadded tumour. The morbid mass, which was at first sunk in the general adipose and cellular substance of the breast, gradually becomes prominent; the adhering skin, having first grown more shining and white than natural, acquires a reddish or livid colour, generally mottled ; the veins of the surface become enlarged and varicose; the nipple loses its prominence, and ends by sinking more or less deeply below the level of the surrounding skin, which is distinctly furrowed or puckered. The mechanism of this subsidence of the nipple differs in various cases : it may either depend on irregular adhesion of the mamma to the skin ; on the traction exercised on the part by the obliterated and contracted galactophorous tubes; on atrophy of the proper structure of the gland ; on thickening of the skin surrounding the nipple (here it is only apparent) ; or on carcinomatous infiltra- tion of the latter part itself. In a variable point of the mass, sometimes before, but generally after certain evidences of internal softening in the tumour have occurred, the skin corresponding to the most elevated part undergoes the series of changes elsewhere described, and at last gives way. A serous fluid is at first discharged through the result- ing fissure ; the latter exhibits the character- istic progressive changes, ulceration spreads, soft or hard vegetations form on the ulcer, haemorrhage and the usual phenomena of can- cerous destruction succeed with greater or less regularity and frequency. The affection of the lymphatic system follows here its usual course ; the glands of the axillary and supra- clavicular regions suffer most considerably, and the obstruction to the circulation of the contents of the lymphatic vessels leads to extensive swelling of the hand, fore, and upper arm. This osdema may in advanced cases become of the hard kind with promi- nence of the cutaneous papillae,- and simulate a state of elephantiasis. It is sometimes complicated with frequent attabks of erysipe- las, each of which permanently increases the size and hardness of the limb. This condition may form the chief source of suffering, and exercise all the endurance of the patient and ingenuity of the medical attendant. In these extreme cases M. Cruveilhier has discovered complete obliteration of the superficial and deep seated veins of the axilla. The oedema may extend to the trunk and lower extremity. The local symptoms present here no par- ticular characters : yet the suffering is perhaps more than usually severe in this organ. The period of the first occurrence of pain is very variable ; the patient is said to feel worse before each catamenial period, but this is far from being of uniform occurrence. The discharge of a small quantity of blood or sero- sanguineous fluid by the nipple is sometimes, as already noted, a symptom of early occur- rence, and may be useful in a diagnostic point of view.