DIPLOPIA. 877 No. 9. line of the right retina, on which one of the coinciding strong lines, viz. the vertical one, falls, appears in a different place. The place this faint line apparently occupies is the in- tersection of that plane of visual direction of the left eye in which it is situated, with the plane of visual direction of the right eye, which contains the strong vertical line.” “ This experiment,” continues Mr. Wheat- stone, “ affords another proof that there is no necessary physiological connexion between the corresponding points of the two retinae— a doctrine which has been maintained by so many authors.” So far from agreeing with Mr. Wheatstone, I am of opinion that the phenomena observed in this and similar ex- periments described by him will be found quite consistent with the theory of corre- sponding points of the retinae, extended in the manner I have had occasion to suggest in this article. For instance, all that the expe- riment just described shows is, that, as the two strong lines fall upon parts of the two retinae within each other’s influence, the mind, as usual, does not perceive them separately. The resultant single line appears in a mean position and in relief. The strong vertical line of the right hand figure being thus drawn out of its position as it were by the attraction of the strong oblique line of the left hand figure, exerts no influence on the faint ver- tical line, which is seen unchanged, just as it falls on the left retina. The strong vertical line which falls on the right retina, if uninflu- enced by the presence of the strong oblique line falling on the left retina, would predomi- nate over and exclude the faint vertical line in the left eye. Nay, a careful contemplation shows that it does so in some degree, for after the faint vertical line is added, as in No. 9, the appearance of relief of the single line re- sulting from the coalition of the two strong ones, as seen in No. 6, is very much spoiled by the tendency of the strong vertical line to separate from the oblique line at one extremity, and cover or exclude the corresponding ex- tremity of the faint line. When from any cause there is a loss of the natural correspondence of the optic axes, the parts of the two retinae on which the images of the same object are simultaneously pro- jected are not corresponding parts ; therefore, in accordance with what has been above said, the sensations arising from the two impres- sions are separately perceived by the mind, and the consequence is double vision. Double vision with two eyes is thus in itself not a dis- ease, but, from the organization of the eyes, a natural result of derangement of those con- ditions on which single vision depends. The proximate cause of the derangement alluded to is most frequently irregular or impeded action of the muscles of the eyeball; but it may be an organic contraction of parts, some morbid production in the orbit, or the like, displacing the eyeball. The two images in diplopia, are often dis- tinguished into true and false—or real and imaginary ; but such a distinction is improper, as the one image, although it may be less dis- tinct, is not more false or imaginary than the other, both being equally the result of sensation produced by the impression of rays of light on the retinae. That one of the two images is more distinct than the other, is owing to the circumstance that in one eye the impres- sion is made on the central part of the retina, which is more sensible than any other; while in the other eye, the impression falls on a part of the retina, which according to the degree of deviation, is more or less distant from the centre. The adjustment of that eye, more- over, which receives the impression on the centre of its retina, corresponds more with the distance of the object looked at: the rela- tive position of the two images depends upon the direction of the deviation of the eyes. As sometimes the deviation of the axes of the eyes exists only when the person looks in particular directions, and at certain distances, so does the double vision in such cases take place only when the patient looks in those directions, and at those distances. The deviation of the optic axes giving rise to double vision may exist in various degrees, from an evident squint to a scarcely perceptible cast. It is in this latter case that the double vision is most marked, as the two retinal sensations are about equal in force, in consequence of the images of the object being projected on or near the centres of the retinae, and on parts of it not far from being corresponding. When the deviation of the optic axes is still slighter, the two retinal images contend as it were to attract the mind’s attention, and the object appears as if oscillating with velocity before the eyes, the consequence of which is confusion of perception when the two eyes are employed, and sometimes vertigo. As the person in this