EPISTAXIS. 141 commonly employed by Larrey, consisted in introducing into the nares, and pushing to- wards the pharynx, a piece of linen made into the form of the finger of a glove, which is then gradually filled with charpie. M. Lar- rey states that this method is very successful; but it is far from easy to fill the linen bag so completely as to close the posterior nares, and if this were done, it is plain that there would be considerable difficulty in removing it. The reiterated introduction of charpie also is painful, and there is danger from the direct pressure on the mucous membrane against a bony resistance. Mr. Bell was in the habit of introducing part of the intestine of a pig as far as possible into the nares, which he then filled with a cold fluid and secured by ligature. It is dif- ficult, however, to fill the gut completely, and retain it in the desired position, nor is it im- permeable to the liquid it contains. Any method which would prevent the dis- charge of blood by the pressure of the co- agulum, rather than by any foreign substance, would be an evident improvement; and with this view, the practice has been adopted of plugging both the anterior and posterior open- ings of the nares, so as to confine the blood within the nasal fossae, which then coagulates and mechanically stops the bleeding. A bougie or piece of catgut, to the end of which a piece of thread has been tied, is to be passed along the floor of the nares until the thread falls into the pharynx. The thread is then seized with a pair of common forceps, and drawn out of the mouth, when a piece of sponge or pledget of lint is fixed to it, and the bougie being withdrawn, the plug is drawn upwards and closes the posterior nares, and another plug being applied ante- riorly, the nostrils are effectually plugged, as shown in the following sketch. Pig. 246. The well known catheter of Bellocq, so strongly recommended by Dupuytren, mate- rially facilitates the method just described. This instrument consists of a silver tube of the size and curve of a female catheter, fur- nished at the extremity w’ith a mobile button of silver, through which a hole is drilled, and this button is attached to the extremity of a long stylet, formed of very flexible elastic steel resembling watch spring. Two plugs are prepared, one of which is surrounded by a double thread ; the patient is then placed opposite to a strong light, his head being held steadily against the chest of an assistant. The surgeon passes the catheter along the floor of the nares, until its extremity reaches the pharynx; he then pushes on the stylet, and thus causes the moveable end to appear be- neath the velum palati, as shown in the annexed cut. Fig. 247. One of the threads of the plug is then passed through the eye and tied, and the plug is drawn to the posterior nares by withdrawing the stylet and catheter. The thread is then drawn forcibly forwards, so as to press the plug strongly against the posterior opening of the nares ; and another plug being tied on anteriorly, the nasal fossae are closed, as shown in fig. 246. One of the threads of the plug is left in the mouth, for the purpose of removing the posterior plug. In putting this plan into practice, we have always found it better to thread the catheter before passing it along the nostrils; as no- thing more is then necessary, when the spring is in the mouth, than to affix the plug, whereas the threading the eye of the catheter while within the mouth is the most troublesome part of the operation. Neither is it neces- sary to leave a thread in the mouth to remove the posterior plug ; indeed, this frequently excites so much irritation, that it cannot be borne. When the plugs have remained a sufficient time, the anterior is removed by cutting the thread, and the posterior falls into the pharynx, and is rejected by a spasmodic effort of the pharyngeal and pala- tine muscles, or may be removed by a pair of curved forceps. The spring stylet is usually made with the edges much too sharp. Whale- bone might probably be substituted with ad- vantage ; but if the instrument usually met with in the shops be used, the spring should always be surrounded with a strip of adhesive plaster before introduction.