CALCULUS. O O 2 H63 the contrary, states that 1 part is soluble in 1,720 parts of water at 60c Fahrenheit, a dis- crepancy which Dr. T. Thomson 1 very hap- pily explains by supposing Dr. Henry’s state- ment to express the quantity of lithic acid which water will hold in solution, the attrac- tion of aggregation of the substance being destroyed ; Dr. Prout’s the power which water possesses to destroy the attraction of aggrega- tion. Chemists have in various ways at- tempted to account for the circumstance of a substance so insoluble as lithic acid being held dissolved in such quantity, as it fre- quently occurs in the urine. Proust2 was the first who maintained that the lithic acid of the urine existed in combination with ammo- nia, and was made soluble in the fluid from this circumstance. This explanation has been adopted by Dr. Prout, by whom the existence of free lithic acid in the urine is denied in toto. The ratio, indeed, in which lithic acid and water are commonly enough present in urine, namely, that of 1 to 1000, makes it impossible that solution should take place, even allowing the highest estimate of the solubility of lithic acid to be correct. According to Dr. Prout, it is always present in combination with ammonia, and occurs as a super-lithate of this base. But the simple fact that lithic acid in combination only with a little colouring matter, is constantly depo- sited from the urine, seems of itself a sufficient answer to this view ; and farther it happens, unfortunately for its stability, that the addi- tion of a solution of caustic ammonia to urine, is followed, in the first place, by the precipi- tation of the phosphates, and after the lapse of a few hours by that of the lithic acid also so completely, that an acid subsequently dropped into the filtered fluid causes no fur- ther deposit of this substance3. Wetzlar, who particularly insisted on the above facts, in order to get over the difficulty presented by the insolubility of the lithic acid, himself maintained, that it existed in the urine in combination with soda. But lithate of soda is itself so extremely insoluble a salt, that the matter is not much mended by the supposi- tion ; besides, later researches in chemistry will not suffer it to be entertained, although it is interesting to know that a solution of lithate of soda will bear a considerable dose of lactic acid, the free acid of healthy urine according to the analysis of Berzelius, without under- going decomposition4. By others, the lithic acid has been held to be rendered more solu- ble by the presence of the saline bodies which occur along with it as constituents of the urine. But direct experiment is against this notion. Dr. Duvernoy 5, of Stuttgardt, appears, how- 1 Art. Calculus, Cycl. of Pr. Med. s Annales <lc Chimic, tom. xxxvi. 3 Wetzlar, Beitr. 7.ur Kcnntniss des niensch. Hams, ftc. Frankft. a. M. 1821. 4 Wetzlar, 1. c. ' Chemisch-medicinisclie I'ntersuchungdcs mcnsch- lichcn Urins. 8vo. Stuttg. 1835. ever, to have solved this difficult question at last. He has shown, in a very satis- factory manner, that it is upon the pre- sence of the peculiar odoriferous and co- louring principle of the urine that the solubility of the lithic acid, and even of the superlithate of ammonia, mainly depends. .He dissolved two grains of lithate of soda in between two and three ounces of hot dis- tilled water. The addition of a few drops of an acid of more powerful affinity instantly caused the precipitation of the lithic acid in small crystalline plates. But on dissolving the same quantity of the salt in a like measure of fresh urine, Dr. Duvernoy found that he could add the stronger acid till the mixture reacted powerfully on litmus paper, &c., without the slightest immediate precipitation of the lithic acid taking place. It was only after the lapse of several hours that the fluid began to grow turbid, and the lithic acid to be deposited in the shape of crystals and impalpable powder. Again, he found that if to a saturated solution of lithic acid in boiling water so much of the proper colouring matter of the urine be added as will give to the fluid the hue of somewhat concentrated urine, the acid, instead of being precipitated as the mixture cools, will con- tinue in solution long after it has become quite cold. Neither does the addition of a stronger acid to this compound fluid, even when cold, cause any immediate deposit of lithic acid; this only takes place after an interval of many hours1. It rarely happens that the lithic acid is de- posited from the urine in the crystalline form alone. The acid, still in state of comparative freedom from foreign admixture, often appears, in the shape of an amorphous sediment of a tawny, reddish-brown or brick-dust colour. Very commonly too, the lithate of ammonia, and occasionally the amorphous deposit which occurs simultaneously with the precipitation of crystalline lithic acid, or follows this shortly afterwards, consists almost entirely of the lithate of ammonia, a salt which in some cases is deposited from the urine in extraordinary abundance. The sediment here is generally more or less of a cream or very pale tawny colour ; sometimes it has a red or pink hue of various shades of intensity, an appearance that is owing to the presence of a new principle, the nature of which seems to vary, Occasionally the lithic acid combined with soda forms the matter of the sediment, which is then, for the most part, all but colourless. This last depo- sit has been most frequently observed in the urine of gouty subjects, a class of persons in which depositions of the same substance in the tendinous thecae of the hands and feet are familiarly known to occur very commonly. The deposits which occur in lithic states of the urine may be arranged according to their colour and state of aggregation, so as to be 1 Op. cit. p. 16.