226 ANEURISM. between the sac, and the ligature being filled with concreted fibrine, and impervious (fig. 66). Fig. 66. All these changes in an aneurismal artery, on which a ligature has been placed on the capillary side of the aneurism, are explained in this figure. From the arch of the aorta (a) is seen coming off the left caro- tid artery (h), the innominata laid open (d), a por- tion of the right subclavian (e), and above it the an- eurismal sac(f) of the carotid is laid open, in which there is a mass af firm coagulum, filling up completely the cardiac orifice of the sac (g), and the parietes of the sac itself are much thichened with concreted fibrine : ( j ) and (h) are two orifices of the artery formed by the ulceration of the ligature ; the cardiac orifice (h) being filled with a coagulum, whilst the capillary orifice' (j) remained quite pervious. The ligature, therefore, in this mode of ope- rating for a carotid, or any other aneurism, where no branch comes off between the sac and point of ligation, has a double office to perform, viz. to prevent the escape of blood, both from the cardiac and capillary orifices of the artery, and it is evident that the risk of haemorrhage from the cardiac orifice, which is so considerable in Hunter’s operation, is by no means so great in that of Brasdor’s. But independently of this, the fact itself, that haemorrhage may take place from the capillary orifice in the vessel, whether the ligature be applied on the cardiac or on the distal side of the aneurism, illustrates the change produced in the state of the circula- tion of the blood when an arterial canal is obstructed, and it also points out that there is a retrograde motion of the blood in the por- tion of artery on the capillary side of a liga- ture, the branches of the obstructed trunk acquiring a power to transmit blood in a direc- tion opposite to its natural current,—the re- trograde motion of the blood being somewhat analogous to the anti-peristaltic motion of the alimentary canal. Indeed, the circumstance that there sometimes is a retrograde motion of the blood in an artery on the capillary side of a ligature deserves consideration in deter- mining the mode of applying ligatures, there being often greater danger of secondary hae- morrhage from the capillary than from the cardiac orifice of the artery at the point of ligation. Nature employs the same process to pre- vent haemorrhage from both orifices, and therefore it is requisite that a sufficient portion of the vessel should intervene between the ligature and first ramification of the artery to permit the formation of an internal clot on both sides of the ligature. The author’s mode of operating.—When speaking generally of the different operations which are employed for the cure of aneurism, I mentioned that besides the two modes of ope- rating, those of Hunter and Brasdor, there was a third, which was suggested and executed by myself in 1827 ; a mode which is more par- ticularly applicable to the treatment of aneur- isms so situated that neither the operation of Hunter nor that of Brasdor can be performed The operation, as has been briefly stated, consists in placing a ligature on one of the branches of the diseased artery instead of on the trunk of the vessel itself. I shall here explain the principle of this operation, as well as the circumstance which led me to propose it,—giving likewise an account of the cases in which it has been performed. Though it had been satisfactorily shown, both from certain symptoms which existed during- life as well as by an examination of the diseased parts after death, that a popliteal aneurism could be cured even when subse- quently to the operation of tying the super- ficial femoral artery a stream of blood con- tinued to flow through the sac, still a know- ledge of that circumstance did not lead to any practical result, or any alteration in the Hun- terian mode of operating. The fact of the subsidence of an aneurismal swelling, and in some instances even of its ultimate consolida- tion, were sufficient to warrant the general adoption of Hunter’s plan. The process of a “spontaneous cure,” or the means which the economy employs to prevent the bursting of an aneurism, might have, indeed, afforded sufficient proof that coagulable lymph, or the fibrine of the blood, can be deposited within the sac of an aneur- ism without any very great languor in the circulation, or diminution in the momentum of the blood. Unless, perhaps, in some very small aneurisms, wherein the internal and middle coats of the arterv remain entire, in no case do we ever find the sac of an aneur- ism without a concretion of laminated fibrine. The circumstance that an aneurism could 1 On Aneurism, with an Account of a new Opera- tion for its Cure, by James Wardrop, 1828.