33 ABSCESS. with the palm of the left hand, or the ends of the fingers united; slight shocks should then be communicated to the opposite side, with the fingers of the right hand. Under the impul- sion the fluid of the abscess is agitated, and the left hand reposing upon the tumour, perceives clearly the movement of the fluid displaced by the impetus. The left hand should be kept in perfect repose, for if the fingers, covering different parts of the tumour, are made to press on it alternately, the sensation will be much less defined; and in a case of obscure or deep seated abscess, such a mode of inves- tigating would be of no value, as the sensation would not differ sensibly from the vibration ob- tained from parts in a state of simple engorge- ment. But though recognizing fluctuation as one of the principal physical signs of abscess, it is right we should be on our guard against some of the illusions of touch. The inflam- matory swelling of the cellular tissue, when it is loose, free, and highly extensible, commu- nicates an elastic feel, which simulates fluctua- tion ; this is particularly the case on the back of the hand, and in the vicinity of the articula- tions : the infiltration of serum may simulate the undulation of pus in the same manner. The dartos, when the testicle is inflamed, is thus infiltrated without there being a hydro- cele; and rheumatism, produces effusion in the neighbourhood ofjoints, which may also impose upon the practitioner. The physical signs, however, form but a part of the groundwork of the diagnostic of abscess. In addition to these, there are others no less remarkable and important, some of a local and some of a constitutional nature. The change from inflammatory engorgement to the maturation of pus has its peculiar signs, which are developed with the progress of the malady in the part itself: the intensity of the inflammation somewhat abates, the heat, redness, and symptomatic fever diminish ; the character of the pain is altered from a quick, burning, pungent throbbing, to one in which a sense of fulness and weight predominates; the tumour becomes larger; and, softer, and finally, the epiderm is separated from the derm. At some period while these changes were taking place, most commonly towards the end, consti- tutional symptoms have arisen, manifesting themselves in the larger and softer pulse, and in short irregular rigors, which are felt over the back, dowrn the loins and inferior extremi- ties, &c. The rapidity with which these phenomena succeed each other, as well as their intensity, depends on the violence of the preceding in- flammation, and the extent of the suppuration. If the irritation be slight, and the pus formed in small quantity, the constitutional disturb- ance will be slight also, and sometimes imper- ceptible ; when, on the other hand, they are considerable, the symptoms attain their maxi- mum of intensity. If the ulcerative process be suspended be- fore the collection reaches the skin, a perma- nent centre of irritation succeeds to the violent inflammation, through which the suppuration VOL. i. was first established ; the abscess remains un- opened, its walls thicken and become the seat of latent or chronic inflammation, the signs characterizing which, are soon shown: the pulse is small and frequent, the appetite fasti- dious or null, the hands and feet are hot and dry, irregular or nightly sweats break out, and the strength, consumed in the struggle of hectic fever, fails more or less rapidly, in proportion to the extent and situation of the abscess, the sound or deteriorated habit of the patient, &c. When the physical signs are fully manifested, and they coincide with the remission of the inflammatory symptoms, with a sense of weight in the part, and irregular rigors, there can be no doubt of the formation of an abscess ; but pus is often formed without any remarkable manifestation of local or constitutional pheno- mena, or at least they may be so obscure and latent, as to require the nicest discrimination to detect them. Pus maybe formed in the liver, kidneys, mediastinum, mesentery, ovaries, and other internal organs, without any more frank indication of their existence, than that of some vague and indefinite sense of weight, or pain in the part. The obscurity, or even total ab- sence of such indication, is the subject of com- mon remark with every pathologist, as con- nected with the development of those purulent collections which take place in the liver, lungs, pleura, brain, &c. after amputation, the extir- pation of tumours, falls, &c. (See Purulent Depot.) In such cases, that is, w'hen the internal organs are the seat of inflammation and the depot of pus, if the local phenomena are ob- scure or entirely wanting, we must help the diagnostic by investigating the general state of the patient, and the changes or perversion of the functions of the suspected organ. Un- der such circumstances, we should take ac- count of the frequency of the pulse, the heat and dryness of the skin, the intensity of the thirst, and examine, according to the case, the manner in which the brain, lungs, the digestive and urinary organs, &c. perform their func- tions. In spite, howrever, of every precaution and care in these cases, as well as in those of abscess even of the cellular tissue, at a dis- tance from the surface, or masked by thick and inextensible parts, it will be often impossi- ble to discover the purulent collection. Take, for example, the case of an abscess formed in the deep intermuscular cellular tissue of the thigh ; the pain preceding the formation of the pus may be too inconsiderable to attract attention; the swelling, extensive and unde- fined, tends rather to obscure than elucidate the nature of the case; the skin remains unal- tered : the abscess is formed before there is any ground even to suspect its existence. The obscurity is not removed till the quan- tity of the fluid becomes considerable, and even then it does not furnish the physical signs of its presence with anything like the same clearness, as in the extensive superficial collection. Pressing the swollen mass at dif- ferent points with the fingers, or embracing it more amply with the whole hands, will not ob-