79 EMPHYSEMA. | spasmodic cough, &c., may be to a certain extent explained by supposing vesicular em- physema to have pre-existed in the subjects in whom the former disorder has appeared in the manner described : for, though experience proves that atrophous destruction of the walls of the celk seldom, if ever, of itself leads to general emphysema ; yet it seems incontest- able, that attenuation of those walls must faci- litate their sudden rupture from extraneous causes. This view is countenanced by a case related by M. Ollivier. The subject of this I case, remarkable in many of its particulars, dropped down dead after a violent effort to suppress a rising fit of choler. On the judi- cial investigation into the cause of death, M. Ollivier was unable to detect the least trace of lesion in any organ, except the lungs ; these were affected with interlobular emphy- sema to such a degree as to cause protrusion of the intercostal muscles. Unfortunately the anatomical characters of vesicular emphysema were not sought for ; but, as the patient was habitually short-winded from his youth, and subject to asthmatic paroxysms, and as the heart was healthy, it is highly probable, if not certain, that he was affected with that form of pulmonary disease. M. Ollivier gave it as his opinion, that death was caused by the sudden effusion of air into the lungs ; and of its correctness no doubt can be fairly raised. In a case of cyanosis, dependant upon transpo- sition of the aorta and pulmonary artery, the subject of which had, as is usual, suffered under constantly-recurring paroxysms of dys- pnoea, we discovered marked vesicular and in- cipient interlobular emphysema : the former affecting both lungs; the latter, one lung only. The female referred to by M. De- vergie had, on the other hand, never suffered from dyspnoea. (3. Perforation of the pleura pulmonalis is not an exceedingly uncommon occurrence in phthisis. Its immediate consequence is effu- sion of air into the cavity of the pleura, with or without pus, muco-pus, or tuberculous matter. The irritation of these foreign sub- stances excites pleuritic effusion in its turn ; and the triple lesion pneumo-hydrothorax with broncho-pleural fistula, is established. Com- plicated as this lesion is, however, it manifestly cannot cause any escape of air into the gene- ral cellular membrane, unless an aperture in the mediastinal or costal pleura co-exist there- with. This is a very rare combination. A remarkable example of it, however, has been recorded by Halliday. A tuberculous sub- ject was seized with rigors, violent headache, and cough, causing pain at the upper part of the sternum. Two days after, he complained of intense dyspnoea ; the lips had grown livid, the face swollen, and the neck and breast emitted a crackling sound on pressure. In the course of an hour, the emphysema spread to every part of the body, with the exception of the palms of the hands and soles of the feet. The patient was now moribund. It was proposed to relieve the symptoms by puncturing the left side of the thorax,—an operation which the patient scarcely survived a quarter of an hour; death consequently occurred in about forty-eight hours after the time at which, in all probability, perforation of the lung took place. On inspection, the left side of the chest, that on which paracen- tesis had been performed, was found to be free from disease. The immediate effect of the operation had, therefore, been to cause collapse of the patient’s serviceable lung ; and the rapid termination of the case in death was a natural consequence of the error committed. There was a cavity about three inches in cir- cumference in the anterior surface of the upper lobe of the right lung,—hence the seat of the pain about the upper part of the sternum,— communicating by a small opening with the cavity of the pleura, into which about four ounces of puriform fluid had been effused. An aperture was also detected in the costal pleura, between the sixth and eighth ribs, and about three inches from the vertebrae ; through this the pleura and cellular membrane were- easily inflated l. To this head is probably to be referred a case related, somewhat imperfectly, by MM. Desmee and Gendron. A patient, in an ad- vanced stage of phthisis, was seized with vio- lent pain in the right side of the chest, for which six leeches were applied. In the even- ing, an emphysematous swelling made its ap- pearance in the situation of the bites, rapidly spread to the other side, and finally reached the abdomen and limbs. The emphysema disappeared after scarification, &c., on the eighth day. The patient died, nevertheless, on the seventeenth. There were cavities in the right lung, and the two laminae of the pleura had coalesced. Strange to say, no search was made for a perforation in the lung: yet the effusion of air seems only intelligible on the supposition of such lesion having ex- isted, together w'ith an opening in the agglu- tinated pleurae. It must not be supposed, however, that, in all instances where an union of the lesions described exists, emphysema will necessarily follow. Dr. Stokes, one of the most accurate of modern observers, reports two cases which will be found to justify this statement. In one of these there was bronchial fistula, with gangrenous destruction of the costal pleura and periosteum. In the other, gangrene of the lung, pneumo-thorax, and sloughing and per- foration of the intercostal muscles. In neither instance is emphysema stated to have oc- curred 2. Professor Williams has “ seen an ulceration extend from a tuberculous cavern across the two layers of the pleura, thickened and adherent, and completely through the walls of the chest ; so that when the patient coughed, air bubbled out of two or three fis- tulous openings in the front of the chest: but here was no pneumo-thorax3.” The absence 1 Opusc. citand. p. 64. 2 On Diseases of the Chest. Dublin, 1837. 3 Lectures on Diseases of the Chest, p. 102.