G8 ECTROPIUM. The Author's Operation.—The following operation I have performed with considerable success in eversion and shortening of the upper eyelid, from contraction of the skin consequent to burns. The peculiarity of my plan consists in the following particulars :— The eyelid is set free by incisions made in such a way, that when the eyelid is brought back into its natural position, the gap which is left may be closed by bringing its edges together by suture, and thus obtaining imme- diate union. Unlike the Celsian operation, the narrower the cicatrice the more secure the result. The flap of skin embraced by the incisions is not separated from the subjacent bone ; but advantage being taken of the looseness of the cellular tissue between the skin and the bone, the flap is pressed down- wards, and thus the eyelid is set free. The success of the operation depends very much on the looseness of the cellular tissue. For some days before the operation, therefore, the skin should be moved up and down over the frontal bone, to render the cellular tissue more yielding. A description of the operation is compre- hended in the following case. A woman, aged twenty-four, had her face much scarred. Both eyeballs were quite ex- posed on account of shortening and eversion of the upper eyelids. On the left side the eversion of the upper eyelid was not so great as on the right. On this side the ciliary mar- gin of the tarsal cartilage corresponded to the edge of the orbit, and the opposite margin of the cartilage occupied the usual position of the tarsal margin ; so that when an attempt was made to close the right eye, it was the orbital margin of the tarsal cartilage which was press- ed down. There was some degree of shorten- ing and eversion of the left lower eyelid. The patient saw very well with the right eye ; but with the left, on account of some opacity of the cornea, she did not see well enough to recognise a person. At the age of one year and three months she fell into the fire, and had her face severely burned, which was the cause of the state above described. Two years before coming under my care, she had an operation performed on the left eye, and derived advantage from it. It is pro- bable, however, that the eversion only had been lessened by the operation, for the short- ening of the upper eyelid was still very great. On the 22d of February, 1836, I operated on the left upper eyelid. Two converging incisions were made through the skin, from over the angles of the eye upwards to a point where they met, somewhat more than an inch from the adherent ciliary margin of the eye- lid. By pressing down the triangular flap thus made, and cutting all opposing bridles of cellular tissue, but without separating the flap from the subjacent parts, I was able to bring down the eyelid nearly into its natural situa- tion, by the mere stretching of the subjacent cellular tissue. A piece of the everted con- junctiva was snipped off. The edges of the gap left by the drawing down of the flap, were now brought together by suture, and the eye- lid was retained in its proper place by plan- ters, compress, and bandage. During the healing of the wound, a small piece of the apex of the flap, which had been too much separated from the subjacent parts, sloughed. By the 1st of April the parts were healed, and the eversion completely cured. The cicatrice where the part had sloughed was pretty broad. When the bandages were first left off, the eyelid was so much elon- gated, that if the lower eyelid had not also been shortened, the eye would have been entirely covered. After leaving off the band- ages some shortening took place, not from contraction of the cicatrice, but of the skin. Being no longer on the stretch, the skin assumed, as it contracted, more of its natural appearance. About the middle of March, the right upper eyelid was operated upon. The inci- sions were made in a similar way, (a a, Fig. 216,) except that they did not meet in a point, a space being left between their extre- mities to the extent of about one-sixth of an inch, which was divided by a transverse cut (b, Fig. 216.) Fig. 216. 6 By the stretching of the subjacent cellular tissue, I succeeded in drawing down the flap, and thus elongated the eyelid so much that it covered the eye entirely ; but in conse- quence of the long continued displacement of the tarsal cartilage, the ciliary margin of it did not come into contact with the eyeball. I did not interfere with this state of parts, by attempting any transverse shortening of the lid, but a piece of the everted conjunctiva was removed, and with it a bit of the tarsal carti- lage. From the surface of this wound there sprang out a small soft fungus, which was cut