180 ENCEPHALOCELE. 2 Ibid. p. 344. 2 Loc. cit. 1 Ibid. p. 343. in the treatment of spina bifida, has been ex- tended to encephalocele ; and the first, as far as I know, in which this practice has been attended with success1.” In this case puncture was performed seven times with a needle, and once with a lancet; and on this occasion alone did the operation itself seem to be followed with any fever or unusual restlessness in the infant. Pressure was once applied by means of plaster and bandage ; but convulsions came on, and the pressure was never repeated. After repeated punctures, the quantity of fluid became so trifling- that the operation was no longer necessary; but the solid part of the tumour, formed of the brain itself, was not diminished. The treatment “ kept the disease from progressing until the child arrived at that state of development when the brain and its membranes became less disposed to watery secretions, and the powers of the constitution enabled the infant to provide a stronger skin, capable of sustaining the weight of the hernia 2.” He refers to another case in which he saw puncture employed, and the child died nine days afterwards; but this operation was performed under unfavourable circumstances. The following cut is a repre- sentation of this tumour :— Fig. 241. We have, then, six cases illustrating the effects of puncture, and of these four died ; in one the result was not ascertained ; and Mr. Adams’s single case is the only instance of cure—and this, it will be seen, was imperfect. It would appear, therefore, that though punc- ture may be less dangerous than incision, it is by no means free from risk ; for it is extremely probable that many of the patients whose cases have just been detailed, would have lived much longer if the disease had been left to nature. The only circumstances under which our present experience can lead us to expect benefit from puncture, are probably when the sac is so much distended that its rupture or ulceration is almost certain. This occurrence is proved to have been fatal in so many in- stances, that it would be far better to antici- pate it by puncture ; thereby evacuating the fluid more gradually, and rendering the heal- ing of the opening in the sac far more proba- ble. This result is facilitated by making the punctures in those parts of the sac least af- fected by the effects of distention. 4. Treatment by Compression. This method, under proper and obvious pre- cautions, is the least dangerous, and is stated by most writers to be the most efficacious ; but we are aware of only two cases in which its success has been proved. The first is the case of M. Salleneuve1, which wras related to the French Royal Academy of Surgery. The patient w-as a child, who was born with a tu- mour on the posterior and lateral part of the head,—soft; disappearing on compression ; oc- cupying the situation where the parietal, occi- pital, and temporal bones approximate each other ; passing through an opening an inch and a half in diameter ; and regularly pulsat- ing. A piece of sheet-lead, pierced with holes, by which it could be fastened to the cap, was applied so as to make a moderate degree of permanent compression upon the tumour. It gradually diminished in volume, ossification proceeded, and the lambdoid suture was even- tually perfectly closed. A case w-as also treated in a similar manner by Callisen 2. He does not give the details, but refers to it in the fol- lowing terms : “ Sic parvas hernias cerebri curari, ac hiatum osseum denique occludi posse, aliorum et propria experientia evicit.” But he agrees, that when of a larger size, scarcely anything can be done beyond applying some contrivance to shield the protruded parts from injury. We may conclude, then, that when an cn- cephalocele is not very large, and is reducible w'ithout producing evidence of cerebral com- pression, the displaced parts should be re- turned, and pressure applied by means of a plate of ivory, silver, or lead, maintained by a bandage. Ivory is preferable to a metallic support, as it is not so good a conductor of caloric, and therefore less capable of trans- mitting variations of temperature to the brain. If reduction be impossible,—and pressure causes no pain or dulness,—compression may be still applicable to prevent further en- largement. Lastly, if the tumour cannot be returned, nor pressure supported, all we can do is to adopt some mechanical contrivance, varied according to the form and situation of the tumour, to protect the brain from external injury, and from cold. It may be advisable to combine puncture with compression under the circumstances before stated. Bibliography.—Many writers on Encephalocele are referred to in the above article, and their works given in the foot-notes. See also Major, De Cranii Sutura Sagittali ad Nasum excurrente ; and De Breg- niate Infantibus Clauso : Miscell. Acad. Nat. Cur. Dec. 11, an. 8, 1877. Sommer, De Usu Suturarum Cranii: ibid. Dec. 11, an. 10, 1691. Maucharl, Anat. Hydroceph. ibid, 1696. Himauld, Recherchcs surlcs 1 De Hernia Cerebri. Strasburg, 1781.