414 GASTRO-HYSTEROTOMIA. dren1. Some interesting particulars of these cases will be found in his “ Observations Pra- tiques de Chirurgie et d’Obstetricie.” Other cases might be added to the above list, if it were necessary ; but those selected will, no doubt, be considered amply sufficient to show, that on the continent at least, and particularly in Germany, the Caesarean ope- ration is not unfrequently successful. Ac- cording to the calculations of Dr. Charlton, the number of Caesarean sections which oc- curred during the first thirty-three years of the present century, was one hundred and ten, of which forty-eight were successful for the mother, and sixty-two unsuccessful. Of the children, sixty-seven were born alive, and twenty-nine dead. When we consider, how- ever, that many unsuccessful cases have pro- bably not been recorded, we can scarcely rely upon the comparative statements of either Dr. Hull or Dr. Charlton, as affording a fair esti- mate of the average result of this operation. In Great Britain, the operation has been singularly unsuccessful; the case of Sarah Bate, which occurred in my own practice, in the month of May, 1835, being, as far as I can discover, the only instance in which a woman has recovered in this country after the ex- traction of the foetus by incision through the parietes of the abdomen and uterus. The case of Mr. Barlow2 is no longer considered to be of this description ; upon which Mr. S. Cooper, in the 7th edition of his Surgical Dictionary, makes the following remarks : “ My friend, the late Dr. Gooch, having ob- ligingly communicated to me his doubts, and those of Dr. Hull, respecting the reality of incision having been made in this instance into the uterus, I am glad to have the oppor- tunity of expressing my perfect conviction of the more correct view of the case, taken by these physicians.” “ I suspected from the first,” says Dr. Hull, “ that Mr. Barlow was deceived in this case, from the account he gave of the remarkable thinness of the uterus : and I had formed an opinion that the child had escaped through a laceration of the uterus into the abdomen, enveloped in the secundines, and that he had merely divided the mem- branes, when he had fancied that he had divided the uterus.” “ Dr. Hull then pro- ceeds,” says Mr. Cooper, “ to explain the con- firmation of his own sentiments by those of Mr. Howarden, a very intelligent practitioner at Blackrod, who assisted at the operation. In fact, the particulars stated by this gentle- man, leave no doubt, that the foetus had escaped through a laceration of the uterus into the cavity of the abdomen 3. The case also referred to by Mr. D. Stewart4, where ' According to more recent accounts it appears that Dr. Hoebeke has now performed the operation sixteen times; eleven of which have been perfectly successful. 2 Vide Medical Records and Researches, p. 154, 1798; and Essays on Surgery and Midwifery, by James Barlow. 3 Vide “ A Defence of the Caesarean operation,” by John Hull, M.D. of Manchester, 1799. * Vide Edinb. Med. Essays, and Ohs. vol. v. p. 360. the labour had endured twelve days, and the life of the mother was saved, after the dead foetus had been extracted by a midwife, was also, probably, of the same nature : at all events, the want of authentic particulars, and the circumstance of the operation having been done by a woman, leave the true nature of the case questionable.” According to Dr. Ryan, in the third edition of his Manual of Midwifery, p. 577, published in 1831, the operation, up to that period, had been per- formed in the British dominions nearly forty times: to which, if we add the cases which have occurred from that time to the present day, they will probably amount to nearly fifty. The most recent case that has come to my knowledge, is that of Mr. Evans, jun. of Belper, who performed the operation in April, 1841. The woman died on the sixth day5. Of all these operations, the case of Sarah Bate 0 appears to present the only instance in which the lives of both the mother and the child have been saved by its performance. Mr. Crosse, of Norwich, in the retrospective address delivered by him at the fourth anni- versary of the Provincial Medical and Surgical Association7, thus alludes to the subject : “ It is a striking proof,” says he, “ of the richness of our medical records, that, within the scope of my inquiries for the present occasion, there are met with, instances of the Caesarean ope- ration having been performed in a majority of the conditions which may demand it: for narrowed pelvis, extra-uterine conception, rupture of the uterus, and sudden death from apoplexy or other causes. The operation has also been performed, and with success, in the leading countries of the world. In England we have a single and most critical example of its success, by Mr. Knowles, of Birmingham ; and, in America, Professor Gibson has been the first to save the life of both parent and child by this intrepid proceeding8. The most frequent examples are met with in the publi- 5 Since this article went to the press my attention has been drawn to a case of Ctesarean section per- formed in August, 1840, by Mr. Whitehead, of Man- chester. The case resembles in many points that of Sarah Bate. It is a highly interesting and instructive case, and is well worthy an attentive perusal. The patient lived 32 days and 10 hours after the operation. Vide Med. Gaz. vol. ii. New Series. 1841. Another case, not adverted to above, may be found briefly re- corded in the 1st vol. of the Provincial Medical and Surgical Journal. It occurs among some notes taken from one of the late Sir Astley Cooper’s early case- books. 6 This case is reported in the Trans, of the Prov. Med. and Surg. Assoc, vol. iv. 7 Vide Trans, of the Prov. Med. and Surg. Assoc, vol. v. p. 96. 8 I have since been favoured by Professor Gibson of Philadelphia, with notes of his two interesting cases of Caesarean operation. They were both equally suc- cessful, and were performed by that distinguished sur- eon upon the same woman. The first was in March, 835, when a healthy living girl was extracted, and the second in November, 1837, by which a fine boy was ushered into the world. It appears, according to Dr. Gibson’s account, that these were her third and fourth labours, and that in her two previous labours she had been delivered with great difficulty, after the destruction of the child by cephalotomy. 5 ’