CANCER. G87 then rapidly dissected it out. Four small ar- terial branches only required to be tried ; the wound was brought together with five stitches of interrupted suture. Five months after, there had been no return of the disease. XT.— Urinary Organs and Passages. (a.) Kidneys.—Cancer of the kidney may be either primary or secondary ; in the for- mer instance solitary, or accompanied with scirrhus of the renal lymphatic glands and vessels, or with consecutive carcinoma in dis- tant organs, especially the lungs. According to Rayer, the disease sometimes originates under the influence of, without continuity with, cancer of a neighbouring part, espe- cially of the liver and of the descending colon. Encephaloid is the species by far the most frequently observed in the kidney, and ex- hibits here its different varieties. The organ is sometimes divided into a number of com- partments filled with cancerous detritus, blood, and pus arising from suppuration of their walls; these compartments may be without opening or communicate with the cal ices. Of renal scirrhus Mr. Wilson has related a striking example: the tissue of the kidney was converted into “ a substance nearly as solid as, and feeling like, softened cartilage, of brownish hue, and intersected by thin white membranous septa.” Konig describes a simi- lar case, and refers to another in the Epheme- rides. M. Rayer has also met scirrhus thus situated, “ with the same appearance as in mammary cancer,” and surrounded with ence- phaloid pulp or in the neighbourhood of fibri- nous deposits. Encephaloid matter is found cither infil- trated through the renal tissue or accumulated in masses ; and, as it is affirmed, almost inva- riably appears first in the cortical substance, which may be totally destroyed before the tubular has suffered at all. The part of the kidney in which the morbid formation com- mences is subject to much variety. The masses may protrude into the pelvis, or push the mem- branous walls of that sac before them, and eventually perforate it: collections of the can- cerous matter are frequently found in the renal veins and cavae, either pure or combined with coagulated fibrine. In the early stages the size of the kidney is little affected ; in propor- tion as the morbid matter accumulates, the gland undergoes corresponding enlargement. In the tuberiform species the intervening renal substance may be healthy, hyperhaemic, in- flamed, infiltrated with or containing collec- tions of pus. Both organs are very rarely affected ; and we know of no instance in which both were extensively so. The healthy kid- ney is almost always hypertrophous ; the non- cancerous parts of the diseased one are often in a similar condition. The calices are sometimes obliterated, di- lated and filled with serous fluid, as show'n by Cruveilhier1; a state commonly resulting from pressure of the enlarged lymphatic glands of the hilus. The pelvis, in a case ob- served by Dr. Bright, was dilated into a huge cyst “ containing two pints of a brownish fluid, like coagulated blood of long standing.” The fibrous capsule may be exceedingly thick- ened ; the hypertrophy bearing perhaps more particularly on the sub-fibrous cellular mem- brane described by Rayer2. This observer has never seen tuberculous associated with cancerous matter in the kidney; Cruveil- hier’s statements on this point have already been adverted to. The disease may coexist with renal calculi; in the case just mentioned of Dr. Bright, the pelvis contained a mulberry calculus. In some instances heavy dull pain confined to the renal region is complained of, or this may be lancinating and shoot in the direction of the ureters or the bladder ; in others the pain is rather referred to the anterior part of the abdomen, and none may be felt through the entire course of the disease. Various alterations in the conditions of the urine may be naturally supposed to attend its progress, but these have as yet been scarcely attended to. Haematuria, albuminuria, and purulent discharge with the urine have, however, been observed. The former is a symptom of al- most invariable occurrence; in fact, we have not met with a single case recorded by wri- ters, in which its absence is established ; it may appear as the very first symptom, or su- pervene at an advanced period only, occur rarely, or be almost always present in abun- dance or in small quantity. Albuminuria may arise from the passage of encephaloid matter into the excretory passages3. When suppura- tion arises in the substance of the kidney and extends to the calices, or when there is dis- tinct pyelitis (inflammation of the pelvis and calices; Rayer) pus finds its way into the blad- der, and may be detected in the urine by the usual re-agents ; this is, however, a mere epi- phenomenon in the disease, and one more likely to mislead the practitioner than to as- sist him in its diagnosis. If the morbid de- position have materially enlarged the size of the organ, the resulting tumour may be de- tected by inspection, palpation, and percus- sion. Diarrhoea is a very ordinary attendant on the affection, and probably depends upon the irritation produced by the close proximity of the morbid formation to the ascending or descending colon. CEdema of the lower ex- tremities is occasionally observed; when the vena cava is obstructed with cancerous matter, this is an invariable result. Death sometimes appears to be the result of repeated haemorrhage ; in other instances it may follow rupture of the tumour from a blow, 1 Tuvrais. i. 2 Malad. des Reins, t. i. p. 23. 1839. 3 Christison, Granular Degeneration of the Kidneys, p. 40.