CANCER, 667 the result of a curious case related by Louis (the benefit derived really depending on the reduction of the tumour), is justly rejected wholly by modern practitioners. The destruction of the tumour has been at- tempted in many instances by opening it with caustic. Five out of six cases treated in this way, and collected by Ebermaier, terminated fatally, almost immediately : in the case with successful issue, related by Eck, doubts are thrown out by Velpeau, whether the disease was really cancerous. Ficker describes an example of apparently successful ligature ; Velpeau questions the carcinomatous nature of the disease in this instance also. In other cases constriction with a ligature has been followed by convulsions ; Mr. S. Cooper mentions his having observed the fatal effects of this mode of operation exemplified at St. Bartholomew’s. In order to place, in the very strongest light, the disastrous consequences to be ex- pected from merely incising these tumours, or from a partial attempt at their removal, we subjoin the results of a number of instances in which such measures were had recourse to. REFERENCE. OPERATION. Amatus Lusj- Incision. TAN US. (Centur. 5. Obs. 8.) Camerarius. Ambroise Pare. (Louis, p. 10.) Petit. (Louis, p. 13.) Sivert. (Louis, p. 14.) Rey. (Louis, p. 21.) Legrand. (Louis, p. 23.) Choppart. (Louis, p. 31.) Saltzmann. (Louis, p. 34.) Volprecht. (Louis, p. 3G.) Philippe. (Louis, p. 43.) Hrister. (In Kaufmann.) Opening with caustic. Opened for an abscess by a barber. Partial removal of tumour. Incision of skin & pericranium; one-third of the boriy circle, but none of the mor- bid growth re- moved. Tumour incised. Opened with caustic. RESULT. Death in convul- sions, 2 days after. Death on 3rd day. Death on 2nd day. sions or pain. (Infant, let. 2.) Death on 11th day. Lingering death, with cerebral symptoms. Death a few (6 or 8) hours after; slight delirium and convulsions. Haemorrhage, — convulsions, — death in about 24 hours. Opening with caustic potass. Incision. Tumour incised crucially. Caustic applied. Central incision. Death a few days after. Draining haemor- rhage, death on 2nd day. Stupor after ope- ration, continu- ing until death, on 5th day. Convulsions and death on 8th day. Death in less than 24 hours, withouteonvul- REFERENCE. OPERATION. RESULT. V. Walther. SlEBOLD. SlEBOLD. Astley Cooper. Klein. Schnieber. Graff. Wish art. Travers. Chelius. Case 4. (vide fig. 169.) Amussat. (Cruveilhier’s case of cranial colloid.) Jobert. Orioli. Incision of base, haemorrhage, & ligature of 10 arteries; 2 lbs. of blood lost. Attempted re- moval. Incision from one end to the other of the tumour. Tumour partial- ly removed. Tumour punc- tured with a trocar, and 4 ounces of blood drawn off; then incised in its en- tire length. New-born in- fant : tumour removed by the father with a razor,as close as ossihle to the ase. Again removed to the level of the bone; the patient aetat. 5. Removal to level of skull. Crucial opening made. Tumour incised for an abscess. On first incision, tremendoushae- morrhage; a large part ex- cised ; obstinate bleeding (April 1826). Partial extirpa- tion. Removal to level of skull; actual cautery applied to the bone. Imperfect remo- val. Cicatrization; pa- tient alive two years after; the tumour only slightly enlarg- ed. Death under knife, from hae- morrhage and convulsions. Death on the 4th day. Fever; coma on the 4th, death on the 6th day. Death on the 4th day. Gradually reap- peared without affecting the child’s health. The fungus reap- peared, and was as large as be- fore on the 11th day: death on the 15th. Patient lived 6.J months, when the tumour had re-acquired its original size. Fungous growth sprouted out in 3 days; death on the 14th. Free haemor- rhage ; “ death quickly follow- ed.” Wound almost closed 6 weeks after; but tu- mour then larger than be- fore operation; pulsatile, pain- ful, and the seat of frequent hemorrhage. — Death Decem- ber, 1827. Reproduction;— death in one year. Disease returned in a month. (Case afterwards operated on by Berard, jun.) Rest removed by gangrene: re- covery. There can be little question in the mind of any one, after a perusal of these columns, as