tique, vol. v. 1 Traite de l’Art des Accouchcmcns, vol. ii. p. 483. 7G4 CEPHALOTOMY. Kinder, in Med. Jahrb. des K. K. Oesterr. Staates, Bd. xiii.; or, Analekten liber Kinderkranldieiten. Heft. viii. P. 30. 1830. ■/. A. Darchard, De Tumore Cranii rccens natorura Sanguin. Symbola;. 4to. Vra- tislavke, 1837. Fortin, Cephalann. sous-pericranien, l’rcsse Medicale, No. 9. 1837. Guussail, Note sur un Cephalasmatome sous-pericr. qne a disparu apres une hemorrhagic nasale; Presse Medicale, No. 54. 1837. VaUeix, Clinique des Maladies des Enfans nouveaux- nes, p. 494. Paris, 1838. ( Walter Hayle Walshe.') CEPHALOMA. See Cancer. CEPHALOMETER. An instrument no longer in use, which had been proposed for measuring the head of the foetus during labour. CEPHALOTOMY.—(From Kt<f>a\t), the head, and ri/ivuv, to cut.) Syn. Cephalotomia, Lat.; Cepkalatomie, Fr.; Craniotomy. A term used in midwifery to express the removal of the brain—excerebration ? of the head of a child impacted in the pelvis. Any of the following conditions would, ac- cording to M. Velpeau, indicate the necessity of having recourse to this operation. 1st, When the foetus is dead, and the passages are too narrow to admit of its being removed either by means of the forceps, or by turning ; 2nd, when it is very probable that the infant has ceased to live, or is upon the point of death, and that, in order to remove it entire, it would be ne- cessary to have recourse to the operation of hysteriotomy ; 3rd, when the head alone re- mains in the pelvis, and the hand, the forceps, •and the crotchets, have failed to extract it. It would be useless, dangerous, and should not be attempted, even when the fetus is dead, if the small diameter of the pelvis is less than from eighteen to twenty lines *. A variety of instruments have been recommended by different obstetric writers for performing the operation of cephalotomy. Avicenna and Mauriceau employed and recommended a cut- ting tire-tete, somewhat similar in shape to the common crotchets. Levret, Dionis, Fried, and Ould, employed sheathed perforators. Simson has extolled the annular scalpel. The scissors of De la Motte, as improved by Den- man and Smellie, has also been much recom- mended. The double crotchet of M. Baude- locque, cutting by its concave edge, and the cephalotomy scissors of Duges have not, how- ever, been much approved of by obstetric ope- rators. The steps of this operation arc simple : the patient should be placed in the position required for the application of the forceps, and the rectum, but, especially the bladder, being properly emptied, the fore-finger of one hand is to be placed on the head of the child, and with the other hand the perforator should be conveyed to the spot on which the finger rests. The instrument must be carried cau- tiously along the finger as a director, in order that the vagina and os uteri may not be injured. To make sure of not wounding the soft parts in the passage to the fetal head, M. Velpeau recommends that the instrument should be sheathed with linen to within a few lines of its point, and the latter may be covered with a little ball of wax, as recommended by M. Baudelocque. When the vertex presents, a fontanelle or a suture may be chosen for the insertion of the perforator. Coutouly has, however, strongly insisted, that the center of that portion of the skull which presents is the proper place for the application of the per- forator, and adds that a more solid point than the fontanelles should be chosen for that pur- pose ; but this practice is not generally fol- lowed. If the os uteri is placed obliquely, as sometimes happens in cases of extreme defor- mity—it must,previously tohaving recourse to the instrument, be gently brought into the most favourable position. The perforator being placed on the head, the scalp is then to be pierced, and the point of the instrument rests on the bone through which it is to be pushed, either by a steady thrust or a boring motion. It is to be carried on till checked by the stops. The blades are then to be opened, so as to tear up the cranium; and in order to enlarge the opening, they may be closed and turned at right angles to their former position, and again opened so as to make a crucial aperture. Some have employed a trephine in place of a perforator. If the face presents, the perforator should enter the forehead just above the nose. If the child has been turned, the instrument must be introduced behind the ear, and the bones freely opened laterally and upwards. The crotchet is then to be intro- duced, and obtains a good fixture on the base of the occipital bone and foramen magnum Duges recommends the cerebral debris, re- maining after the operation, to be removed by injections of warm-water, conveyed into the cranium by means of a canula2: but Burns, on the other hand, thinks it hardly necessary to break down the brain, and states, that “ if part of the cranium have entered the pelvis, some of the brain may come out with a squirt whenever the bones are opened, and at all times there is more or less haemorrhage from the cerebral vessels.” This author questions the propriety of allowing a considerable time to elapse, especially when the labour has been long protracted, after opening the head, before we apply the crotchet, as advised by many writers on obstetric surgery. Neither does he admit, with Dr. Osborn, that the specific number of thirty hours is sufficient to produce such a degree of putrefaction as materially to facilitate the operation. The chief benefit of delay is to bring as much of the cranium as possible into the pelvis. But in obtaining this desideratum we should not lose sight of the exhaustion, and even collapse, likely to happen to the mother from so long a con- tinuance of the pains. When the deformity is 1 Sec Burns’s Midwifery, ninth edition. 2 Dictionnairc de Medecinc et de Cliirurgie Pra-