EAR, AND HEARING, DISEASES OF. 16 occasions relapses, or aggravates an already existing disease. The acute form of inflammation of the membrana tympani is much less frequent than the chronic form. In the former, one ear only in general is attacked; the latter more fre- quently occurs in both ears. Acute inflammation of the membrana tym- pani is distinguished from otitis interna, not only by its greater mildness, but principally by morbid appearances in the membrana tym- pani presenting themselves from the very commencement. In otitis interna, morbid changes in the membrana tympani occur only when it is threatened with bursting by the matter accumulated in the cavity of the tym- panum, and has also become involved in the inflammatory action. As chronic inflammation may not have been preceded by acute inflam- mation, and as dulness of hearing to a greater or less extent is the only subjective symptom inseparable from chronic inflammation of the membrana tympani, this may be confounded with other causes of deafness. Careful phy- sical investigation is therefore necessary. It is to be remembered, however, that chronic inflammation is very frequently complicated with other morbid changes—polypous excres- cences, for instance. Buzzing in the ear does not necessarily attend this disease. If resolution of the acute inflammation take place, the fever and violent pain remit, and in their stead the patient experiences a feeling of heaviness and fulness in the ear ; the noises diminish, although the dulness of hearing is oftentimes augmented in consequence of effu- sion between the layers of the membrana tym- pani, increasing on the remission of the inflam- mation. The vessels retract, and the redness of the membrana tympani disappears; theswel- ilng and unevenness of the surface subside ; the membrane desquamates in large yellow transparent scales, but remains still opaque. The natural transparency returns but slowly, or not at all—both thickening and opacity re- maining, and permanently impairing hearing. With the cessation of the pains, the secretion of ear-wax, which had been suppressed, re- appears. In chronic inflammation of the membrana tympani the prognosis is in general unfavour- able. The disease is not disposed to a spon- taneous cure, and it is only when taken at the commencement, that there is room to hope that its progress may be arrested. Should the membrane be already perforated, the prognosis is still more unfavourable, as there is an increased liability to relapse and to far- ther destruction, together with a tendency in the cavity of the tympanum as well as the auditory passage to be implicated. Treatment.—In reference to this, it is im- portant to attend to the age of the patient. If young, the inflammation is probably of a scro- fulous character ; if adult, catarrho-rheumatic; if old, gouty. In acute inflammation of the membrana tympani, if the patient be an adult, and there is much pain in the ear, with gene- ral fever, a bleeding from the arm, or abstrac- tion of blood by leeches around the ear, ought to be premised, followed up by calomel and Dover’s powder at bed-time, and a saline pur- gative in the morning. No application but warm fomentations should be made to the ear, and a few drops of warm almond oil. If under this treatment the pain does not subside, the abstraction of blood may be repeated, and smaller doses of calomel and opium given two or three times a day, until the gums are slightly affected. When the activity of the inflammation has been subdued, counter-irritation by means of blisters or tartar-emetic ointment, not on the mastoid process, but behind and below it, may be had recourse to. If the patient is young and scrofulous, or old and gouty, the treat- ment must be modified accordingly. In chronic inflammation it may be advisable still to apply leeches, and besides the employ- ment of counter-irritation as above directed, the ear is to be frequently cleansed from ac- cumulated secretion by syringing with luke- warm water, and a solution of the acetate of lead used for pouring in. The strength of the acetate of lead solution may be from one to ten grains to the ounce of water. When the membrana tympani is perforated, the patient must wear cotton or wool in the ear, to pro- tect the cavity of the tympanum. An occasional forcible expiration with the nose and mouth closed, will, by displacing any accumulated matter in the cavity of the tym- panum, frequently for the time improve the hearing. - Tonic and alterative remedies will in many cases be found indicated. Perforation of the membrana tympani by ope- ration.—In what diseased states of the ear is this indicated? According to Sir Astley Cooper, who first introduced the operation, they are, closure of the Eustachian tube, and extravasation of blood in the cavity of the tympanum. To these have been added accu- mulation of other matters besides blood, and especially a thickened, insensible, and har- dened state of the membrana tympani. Closure of the Eustachian tube has been looked upon as “ vera et fortasse unica hujus operationis indicatio1.” This opinion is founded on the common notion that simple ■obstruction of the Eustachian tube is sufficient of itself to cause a great degree of deafness ; I have, however, found the power of hearing a watch at the distance of fifteen feet compa- tible with obstructed Eustachian tubes. I have also found, in a case of habitual deafness, that the duller ear was that in which the Eus- tachian tube proved to be pervious, whilst the removal of the obstruction in the other was followed by little or no change. In simple obstruction, moreover, the access of air to the cavity of the tympanum can be restored in a simpler and more natural way than punctur- 1 Himly, Comment, de Perf. Tympani. In Com- ment. Soc. Reg. Scicnt. Gutting, vol. xvi. p. 117.