220 FISTULA, INTESTINAL. an obstinate attack of constipation, attended with frequent vomiting. After three days of severe suffering and imminent danger, copious liquid evacuations occurred, and he speedily recovered. In October, 1833, a similar attack of obstruction proved fatal in two days. On examination after death, a narrow band of stricture was found exactly seven inches above the anus. The coats of the intestine were a little thickened at the part. Above the stric- ture, the bowel was much distended ; and, below, the rectum appeared perfectly natural. In 1840, Mr. William Hey, Surgeon to the Leeds Infirmary, was consulted by a gentle- man on account of difficulty in evacuating the bowels, attended with pain in the abdomen and a discharge of bloody mucus. Stricture was suspected, but examination by the finger failed to detect such a state. An instrument could not be passed more than five or six inches. After three months, the difficulty of evacuating the bowels had increased, and the attempts were accompanied by violent strain- ing and discharge of bloody mucus. No feces had been passed for some time, except in a liquid state. At length, complete obstruction occurred, and, after it had continued several days, Mr. W. Hey’s attendance was again re- quested. He found the patient suffering from frequent vomiting ; his countenance anxious, and the intestines enormously distended, their convolutions being visible externally. On passing the finger into the rectum, a stricture at the upper portion of this intestine was dis- tinctly felt, from the part being forced down by the great distension of the bowels above it. 1 he intestinal coats, at the strictured part, were firm and thickened, and a small central aperture, of a circular form, could be readily distinguished. With great difficulty, a gum- elastic catheter was passed through the open- ing, and a copious discharge of air and liquid feces followed, which was further promoted by injections of warm water. The relief, how- ever, was only temporary, death occurring on the third day following. No examination of the body was obtained. The large intestine is sometimes observed, in certain parts of its course, to be reduced in calibre much below its natural size, without presenting any appreciable alteration of struc- ture. The following case, lately observed by the author of this paper, may serve as an ex- ample of this affection. A lady, aged 62, subject to habitual constipation, was seized, after imprudence in diet, with violent vomit- ing. Undigested food was at first ejected, and afterwards watery secretions from the stomach more or less tinged with bile. Neither distension of the abdomen, tenderness on pres- sure, nor any symptoms indicative of inflam- mation existed. Clysters returned immedi- ately after being injected, and could not be introduced to a greater amount than half a pint. By the aid off the finger, the lower part of the rectum was ascertained to be re- markably capacious ; and within it could be felt a corrugated mass consisting of the upper part of the rectum, which had fallen down into the capacious lower portion. By disen- tangling the folds of which the prolapsed mass was composed, the tip of the finger could be made to enter a narrow canal. An ivory ball, attached to a silver stem, guided by the fore- finger in the rectum, was introduced into the contracted part, and after traversing it for about an inch was firmly arrested. All at- tempts to procure evacuations by the natural passage proved unsuccessful ; large quantities of bright green fluid were ejected by vomiting at short intervals ; and the unfortunate suf- ferer sunk exhausted on the th:rd day. On examination after death the lower part of the rectum was found to be unusually large, but the upper portion, at the distance of six inches from the anus, was suddenly dimi- nished in size, so as to embrace tightly the forefinger, which could only be passed along the contracted part a little more than an inch ; above this the intestine was reduced to the size of a goose-quill, and presented the same diminution of calibre throughout the whole sigmoid flexure, above which it snp- denly assumed its natural capacity. Through- out the whole contracted part, the intestinal coats appeared perfectly healthy, being free from induration, thickening, or unnatural degree of opacity. No traces of inflamma- tion were detected in the abdomen ; the in- testines were collapsed, and contained nothing but a small quantity of their secretions, ex- cept a large gall-stone, which was lying loose in the jejunum, having escaped through an ulcerated opening in the coats of the gall- bladder and duodenum. Another gall-stone was seen, partially protruding through a se- cond ulcer of smaller size. This case is ad- duced for the purpose of illustrating an unna- tural condition of the intestine, which might be productive of such obstruction as would be relieved by the formation of an artificial anus ; but, to this particular case, the opera- tion could not have been considered applica- ble, as there never existed any distension of the bowel above the contracted part. It is probable that the presence of the gall-stone in the intestines exerted considerable influence in the production of the symptoms. M. Dupuytren 1 adduces as examples of such diseases as might occasionally be relieved by the formation of an artificial anus, the case re- ported by Lafaye, of an officer, in whom, after death, the rectum, at its junction with the colon, was found to be so small, as scarcely to admit the tip of the little finger ; and another observed by Charve, in which the upper part of the rectum was contracted to the size of a quill. M. Dupuytren remarks that these cases forcibly reminded him of that of Talma. The instances now adduced, as well as nu- merous others, scattered throughout the records of pathology, are sufficient to expose the fallacy of an opinion maintained by some surgeons, even in the present day, that stric- 1 Diet, de Med. ct de Cllir. Frat. t. iii. p. 125.