147 AMPUTATION. however, the French more especially, have adhered to the older mode. We have thus two general inodes of dressing ; viz. by first intention, in which the lips of the wound are at once brought into close contact, and so maintained till the parts have grown firmly together; or by second intention, in which contact is prevented by the interposition of dressings of various kinds, and the union when it takes place is consecutive to suppuration. At no very distant period, the propriety of attempting union by first intention, in cases of amputation, was warmly debated, and while M. Roux charged British surgeons with an indiscriminate partiality for this plan, M. Larrey was of opinion that it ought to be pro- scribed altogether in these cases, in order to remove or lessen the chance of tetanus. The adoption of this mode, however, has continued to extend, and even now many of the French surgeons of eminence employ it in the great majority of cases ; and those who still oppose it, have so far altered their opinions in regard to it, as to direct their attention chiefly to distinguish the cases in which the immediate or the consecutive mode respectively, is en- titled to the preference. Some of the French surgeons still cling to the opinion, that when the secondary union is had recourse to, the prolonged suppuration prepares the constitution of the patient better for those changes which must take place in the organism after the removal of a large limb; that when a disease of long standing has transformed a limb into an abundant source of secretion, there may be danger in drying up the morbid discharge too suddenly, and that in such case, secondary union is by far the safest; that where the tissues in which the operation has been performed are in an unsound condition, it is highly improper to confront the surfaces with a view to immediate union. These cases, however, even if we ad- mitted the reasoning to be correct, would only form exceptions. But the circumstances here assumed as objectionable to the imme- diate union, are not only not proved, but they are, by English surgeons, regarded as abso- lutely hypothetical. The entire body of English and American, with a majority of the best German surgeons, agree in considering that the advantages in favour of union by first intention far outweigh the drawbacks which, in some rare cases, are attributed to it, while it is indisputable that the adoption of the secondary mode of union in all cases would be much less successful than the modern plan. How many there are* in whom, by the prompt reunion of the divided parts, a degree of constitutional reaction, and protracted suppuration is prevented, which had they been allowed to take place, would, in all probability, have destroyed or greatly perilled life! Could it be affirmed that the secondary union, though a slower, was always the safer process, the case would doubtless be a strong one ; but the very reverse of this is the fact: in secondary union the soft parts, which, at the time the operation was per- formed, were ample enough to form a good covering for the bone, are often so wasted by the long-continued suppuration, the pain and hectic fever produced by keeping the consti- tution under this drain, that when union is at last attempted, the covering for the bone is scanty, and the stump is conical. The incon- veniences of the old mode are frequently very great, and, in too many instances, persons of good constitution, who would have recovered in a few weeks had a different plan been adopted, have fallen victims to an exhausting suppuration, or to the constitutional disturb- ance arising from a gleety and irritable stump. Velpeau contrasts the two modes of dress- ing in a very striking manner, by comparing the results of Baron Percy’s practice at the head of the military surgery of France, who adopted immediate union, with that of Pelle- tan, his contemporary, at the head of the civil hospitals of Paris, who was strongly pre- judiced in favour of the mode of union by granulation. Out of ninety-two soldiers thus treated by Percy, on the field of battle, eighty- six were cured in twenty-six days. By the same mode, Lucas lost only five out of seventy- five. Out of six operated on by Pelletan, where secondary union was preferred, five died! The opponents of immediate union cast upon it the reproach of preventing the free flow outwards of the blood, pus, &c., that may ooze from the surface of the divided parts. The morbid products thus pent up, they say, macerate the stump, and excite irritation, which extends up the limb, giving rise to fuses of pus, between the muscles and tendons, phlebitis, secondary abscesses in the internal organs &c. But this manner of putting the question is scarcely fair towards the advocates of immediate union, every one of whom acknow- ledges the necessity, when such accumulations occur, of giving them a free exit. In many cases, however, the quantity of pus collected is so small, that it finds a sufficient vent along the ligatures. The remarkable success that has attended amputations in this country since the adop- tion of the treatment by immediate union, is a strong reason for the preference it universally obtains. But it cannot be denied, that it now and then fails, even under favourable circum- stances. What, however, is the result ? The patient is in no worse condition, than if secondary union had been preferred at first. Nothing has been lost in the attempt, but the chance which the surgeon thought it his duty to give him of primary union. The question, however, remains, whether primary union should be attempted in all cases ? We think not. Parts in a sloughy state, or which have been severely contused, will not unite in this way, and an attempt to effect it, would be worse than useless. Parts when not exactly in the healthy state, how- ever, will very often unite in the most favour- L 2