726 CATARACT. in general a dissolved vitreous humour, and also in cases of capsular cataract, the same re- marks as those just made are applicable. By a small incision of the cornea, and a hook, the cataract might be extracted, but its removal with the needle would be more proper and safe. In cases of capsulo-lenticular cataract, the removal of the capsule being required as well as of the lens, this should be attempted in ac- complishing the extraction. It may be done cither before or after the removal of the lens. After dividing the cornea, a pointed curette may be introduced, and the capsule divided by it, in a circular direction, as near to the circumference of the pupil as can be accom- plished w-ithout injuring the iris. This circu- lar portion will sometimes be extracted upon the point of the instrument, or may be ex- tracted by small forceps,—after which the lens is to be pressed out in the usual way. When the opaque capsule is to be removed subse- quently to the lens, it may be effected by means of small forceps pulling it away in de- tached portions ; or it may be left to contract and be removed at a subsequent period by means of a needle introduced into the eye, if it occupies the axis of vision. When the poste- rior part of the capsule is opaque, its removal should be accomplished by a subsequent ope- ration by the needle. $ 16. Accidents from the Operation of Extraction. The operation for the extraction through an incision of the cornea is one of the most perfect and beautiful operations in surgery ; and when successfully accomplished is followed by the most satisfactory results. But it can- not be denied, that it is also one of the most delicate and difficult, and that it is attended with several dangers from accidents which may happen in its accomplishment even in the hands of the most dexterous and experi- enced operators. These, we shall now enume- rate. a. The Premature Evacuation of the Aqueous Humour. When this takes place before the knife has effected the counter-punctuation of the cornea, the eyeball becomes somewhat flaccid, and the iris is pressed forwards, and a portion of it gets under the edge of the knife. When the iris thus gets entangled with the edge of the knife, a portion will be divided, if the operator continues the incision with- out pressing back the iris by applying the point of his forefinger to the cornea. If the iris can thus be made to retire, the knife may be carried quickly across the anterior chamber so as to transfix the eye without the iris being injured. When this has been accomplished, there is no danger of the iris being wounded. If the iris cannot be made to recede, so as to be disengaged from the edge of the knife, several different modes of proceeding have been recommended. The knife may be with- drawn from the eye, and the operation de- ferred till some future day ; or, the puncture of the cornea maj’ be enlarged to a sufficient size by means ot small scissors ; or, a blunt- pointed knife may be introduced, by which the incision may be enlarged. But it is, per- haps, upon the whole, preferable to continue the incision as first intended, and rather cut off a portion of the iris than follow out any of these other methods: for, by none of them can the operation be so well accomplished as we could desire, and by that recommended, the eyeball will suffer less from manipulation ; and the only inconvenience which arises from it is a slight enlargement of the pupil,—a cir- cumstance which can do but little harm where there is some danger of the natural pupil be- coming contracted. The enlargement of the pupil so made does not injure the sight or give rise to any unfavourable symptoms. The premature escape of the aqueous hu- mour takes place from tardiness in passing the knife across the eye, together with too much pressure upon the eyeball. It is a circum- stance, therefore, which by care and attention may be avoided. Indeed, it may almost be said that the successful performance of this operation depends chiefly on every precaution being taken to avoid this accident, and being successful in preventing it from it happening. b. Difficulty in effecting the Counter-puncture of the Cornea. When the operator, as occasionally happens, finds that he cannot accomplish the projection of the point of the knife through the opposite side of the cornea, he may derive assistance from pressing his finger-nail upon the cornea. If the point of the knife bends to one side, or its point is broken off, he may find it impos- sible to accomplish the counter-punctuation in the ordinary way. Under such circum- stances this part of the cornea may be punc- tured with the point of another knife, and then that which is already across the anterior chamber may be pushed through the puncture, and the section completed as at first intended. c. Incision of Cornea too small. When the section of the cornea is less than a semicircle, its size requires to be increased to prevent the occurrence of serious injury to the vitreous humour, iris, and other parts of the eye, from attempting to force out a cata- ract through an inadequate opening. The incision may be enlarged either by meaDS of scissors or a small blunt-pointed bistoury for the purpose. d. The non-exit of the Cataract. After the operation has been so far accom- lished, that the operator proceeds to what as been described as the fourth period of the operation, it occasionally happens that the lens does not start from its situation on the application of pressure to the eyeball. This