AMPUTATION. 157 by cutting from the joint to the commissure, the knife grazing the bone of the extirpated finger on its passage from within, outwards. This is an improvement, by Lisfranc, upon the plan of Petit and Ledran. Sharpe em- ployed the circular method, which has since been unnecessarily revived by M. Cornuau. The object of prolonging the incision be- yond the joint, both on the palmar and dorsal surfaces, is that it enables the operator to di- vide all the fibrous tissues around the joint, without wounding the lips of the wound, and give a cleaner surface to the incisions ; and he may save himself any embarrassment arising from the necessity of seeking for the joint, by drawing the finger firmly in the manner di- rected. Some surgeons think it better to make the incisions fall, not exactly on the centre of the interdigital commissure, but a few lines beyond ; but unless the soft parts be very scanty, this rule need not be attended to: when these are abundant, the excess of skin would be liable to pucker, and impede the cicatrization by becoming turned upon itself. When the soft parts are cut close to the bone, the digital arteries alone will have been divided, the trunk remaining untouched. If the haemorrhage should not cease by the coaptation and compression of the flaps, these two vessels may be twisted or tied. Dupuytren, supposing that the anterior end of the metacarpal bone would, from its size, produce deformity and inconvenience, recom- mended the removal of the finger by sawing the bone above the joint. But the idea is an erroneous one, and has not been adopted. Petit’s plan was to make both the incisions from without, inwards, or from the commissures to the joint, the joint being cut through by a transverse incision. The flaps by this method were more regular, but the modern method is by far more prompt. Oval -method.—The preliminary arrange- ments are the same as in the preceding mode. The surgeon commences his incision as before, three lines beyond the dorsal surface of the articulation, carrying it to the centre of the commissure, on dividing which the edge of the knife is carried along the transverse pal- mar line, that marks the junction of the finger with the palm of the hand, to the opposite side of the finger, from which point it is again carried up obliquely to the back of the metacarpus, till it joins the commencement of the first incision. He now draws the finger towards himself, and thus widening the lips of the wound as much possible, he cuts the extensor tendon, lateral, and palmar ligaments; then bending the finger still more, he forms the flap by termina- ting his incision at the palmar line, over which the knife had already passed. In the flap method, the lateral flaps cover the bone in its large diameter, which is antero- posterior (fig. 10). In the oval method, the flap is taken entirely from the palmar surface of the extirpated finger, and when not cut too long or too broad, fits the exposed surface easily and well. But it does seem as if carrying the incision along the palmar line of the finger in the first instance was altogether superfluous, seeing that when the head of the phalanx is disarticulated, the incision which completes the operation, by forming the flap, must ter- minate there. Another point in its favour is, that it does not require, as the former mode, to have any incision carried into the palm of the hand. It is, however, not so easily per- formed, and should not be attempted without that familiarity with the parts which frequent trials on the dead subject can alone give. This plan is also applicable where more than one, or even all the fingers are to be am- putated. AMPUTATION OF THE FOUR FINGERS TOGETHER. This amputation, which had been mentioned in some of the old works on military surgery, was first methodically described by Lisfranc, to whom we are indebted for finally establish- ing it as an advantageous operation. It is but an application to all the fingers of the hand, of the process described above, for a single fin- ger. The hand being placed in pronation, the surgeon takes hold of the fingers in his left hand, his thumb and index finger holding the little finger close to the joint if it be the right hand, the index finger if it be the left. An assistant retracts the skin, and the surgeon commences his incision about three lines lower than the joint, with a convexity towards the fingers, carrying it across the back of the articulations, from one side of the hand to the other (g, l, or g, m, fig. 12). By this incision, the extensor tendons are laid bare; the assist- ant opens the wound by the retraction, and the flap is dissected a little, till the joints are exposed; the tendons are then cut on a level with the joints, and the lateral and palmar ligaments of each are divided in succession with the point of the knife. He now passes the blade in front of each phalanx, which he raises, one after the other, and forms his flap by following the palmar fold which separates the fingers from the palm of the hand. When any of the fingers can be spared, care should be taken to protect them from being wounded by the bistouri. This object may be facilitated, by cutting on the palmar lines, in the first instance, to form the thick flap, then dissecting the dorsal one, and, lastly, opening the joints in succession from left to right. Before the age of fifteen or sixteen, the ossification of the heads of the metacarpal bones being incomplete, they maybe easily cut with the knife. This disposition will allow of the removal of the heads of the bones them- selves, without any disarticulation of the fin- gers, and besides, give a larger flap. The circular method, recommended by M. Cornuau for a single finger, is also employed by him and others for the removal of the en- tire. He first forms the palmar flap along the directing line into the articulations ; he then forms the dorsal flap across the back of