ERYSIPELAS. 148 * Op. cit. 1 Rayer, Op. cit. weight or pain in the epigastrium, inodorous regurgitions, and nausea or spontaneous vomit- ings of a ropy acidulated mucus. It is of great therapeutical importance, as we shall hereafter see, to distinguish this state from gastritis, which is not an unfrequent complica- tion of erysipelas. This functional derange- ment of the stomach, not unfrequently con- stitutes the principal precursory phenomena of erysipelas, and there are persons subject to the disease, who are thus forwarned of its ap- proach '. The bilious state, etat bilicux of the French, characterized by a yellowish saffron colour of the skin, especially at its junction with the mucous surfaces, of the conjunctiva, of the tongue and its coatings, and of the vari- ous excretions, accompany erysipelas so fie- quently, that it has attached its name to one of the varieties of the disease, bilious erysi- pelas. When the erysipelas attacks any of the natural orifices, various consecutive symp- toms, resulting from their partial or total ob- literation, ensue ; such as deafness, difficulty or even impossibility of articulation, dyspha- gia, &c. March or progression.—The type is almost invariably continuous, attended, however, not unfrequently with exacerbations. In certain epidemics it has been found remittent1 2; but it is questionable if it has ever been essentially intermittent. Dr. Piorri has published a case of erysipelas of the face, that returned, every fortnight, on a subject that had several cari- ous teeth including the two upper canines 3. Messrs. Roche and Sanson say that erysipe- las often appears in the paroxysms of gastro- enteritis, and is thus sometimes regularly in- termittent 4. Dr. Rayer has seen intermit- tent erysipelas of the face, but it was always preceded by attacks of neuralgia. In all these cases a sufficient cause exists for the develop- ment of an erysipelatous fluxion ; but they are not proofs that it is per se intermittent. Between real intermittence, as in ague, and periodicity there is a large interval, in which erysipelas may occupy a place, thus reappear- ing at certain epochs, each spring or each equinox, as Larry4 saw it, or monthly as Frank4 mentions having seen instances of. But these returns are not the reapparitions of a disease that is lulled to rest to reawaken, but successions of distinct diseases, though belonging to the same species. Erysipelas, considered in the part actually affected, is always an acute disease, and gene- rally goes through its periods in seven or eight days, and frequently in much less time. But as it rarely appears simultaneously on all the surface it is to occupy, the total duration is sometimes much longer, and may exceed a month or six weeks, by the successive exten- sion of the eruption. In regular legitimate erysipelas, the local symptoms increase pro- gressively during the two or three first days, 1 Lepelle.ier, Op. cit. 5 Lepelleticr, Op. cit. 3 Tractatus dc Morbis Cutancis. De Erysipelate. after which, the redness and swelling subside. Sometimes a number of small vesicles, ana- logous to those of eczema, appear on the in- flamed surface, f eczematous erysipelas), or larger they form bullae, (ph/yctenoid erysipelas') or even blisters like the vesication produced by cantharides or scalds. Towards the fourth or fifth day, the erysipelas becomes paler and of a yellowish hue, and at the same time the surface loses its tense smooth appearance, and becomes rough and corrugated, in conse- quence of the diminution of the tumefaction. The epiderm severed from its adhesions soon falls off in small farinaceous scales, or in strips varying in size according to the extent of vesication. George Wilson exhibited during several years a patient at the Medical Lyceum subject to annual erysipelas, after which the epiderm of the hands used to be detached in one piece so as to resemble a glove, and that of the feet formed a kind of bag *. A similar case is recorded in the fifteenth volume of the Philosophical Transactions. The con- crete serum that may have been formed into scales generally falls off more tardily. The same succession of phenomena takes place in the several parts subsequently affected, so that if there should be five or six days’ interval between a prior and a subsequent eruption, the latter may not have attained its height when the other will have achieved its course. However, if there be but twenty or thirty hours between the eruptions, desquamation frequently takes place on the whole eruption at once, and when erysipelas successively in- vades a considerable surface, it generally goes through its periods in two or three days in the parts last affected. Sometimes erysipelas limited to a small portion gets through its course also in the same short space of time. The general symptoms usually follow the progression of the local ones, increasing and subsiding with them. Sometimes, however, the fever diminishes, or may subside on the appearance of the eruption : sometimes they appear simultaneously to cease together, or finally the fever may persist after the dispa- rition of the local symptoms. I have thus seen typhus fever outlive the antecedent ery- sipelas. Termination.—It most frequently takes place by resolution, denoted by a remission of all the symptoms followed by desquamation. The redness, tenderness, and some tumefac- tion generally continue some time, and several days and even weeks may elapse before the skin regains its wonted colour and supple- ness, and a frequent succession of erysipelas on the same part leaves after it a thickening and lividity of the integuments, that may per- sist indefinitely and permanently disfigure. The resolution of erysipelas frequently coin- cides with the appearance of various pheno- mena, called ciitical; such as slight haemor- rhage, profuse perspiration, copious alvino evacuations, turbid urine, &c.