G16 CANCER, PHYSIOLOGY OF. contended that an erectile tumour may soften into encephaloid, and that both are identical, yet the latter is frequently found in the for- mer. Further, Muller has, as we have al- ready stated, seen a mass of alveolar colloid in scirrhus, and has often observed colloid cancer contrariwise complicated with scirrhus. Is it reasonable to suppose that these two tissues are capable of hardening and softening into each other ? In fact, the thing is impossible, for their elementary microscopical constitution and mode of growth are different. The only example we have met with in periodical or other works of intimate asso- ciation of cancerous structure and hydatids, is described by Wedemeyer. This observer discovered in the anterior lobe of one hemi- sphere of the brain, in a subject who had died with cerebral symptoms, a mass of scirrhous hardness and fibro-cartilaginous consistence “surrounded with a grey puriform semifluid matter containing some hydatid vesicles Unfortunately it does not appear whether this semifluid matter was softened cancer, or cere- bral substance, gelatinized or infiltrated with pus. (c.) Decay. Such are the more important phenomena occurring in these morbid growths, having no direct influence on their destruction and removal. But sooner or later their inhe- rent tendency to destruction breaks into ac- tion and elimination commences. These pro- cesses are, in general terms, effected by the reduction of the tumour, partially or generally, into a pulpy matter, and the formation of an opening in the investing natural tissues. The mode in which this conversion into pulpy de- tritus is effected, is not, we apprehend, satis- factorily established ; at least, no demonstra- tion has been given of any of the theories adduced to explain it. Of Laennec’s notion we have already disposed ; Recamier, and a variety of writers, attribute the change to in- flammation of the substance of the tumour— inflammation which is purely imaginatory ; Lobstein to an “ effort of nature to perfect the organization of the part,”—a fanciful hypo- thesis. Drs. Hodgkin and Carswell regard the change as the result of gangrene, itself produced in a variety of ways. In encepha- loid, for example, extreme venous congestion sometimes ends in complete stagnation and local suspension of nutrition; if this state be persistent, mortification ensues. A similar re- sult follows occasionally from the obliteration of a large venous trunk through pressure, and still more commonly from total obstruction of the veins with carcinoma. The cause of this venous stagnation may also be, according to these authors, very distinctly traced to the unequal growth of some of the minor tumours of which it is composed. The rapid enlarge- ment of one of these interferes by lateral pres- sure with the circulation in another ; an occur- rence promoted by the pedunculated form. This form is again conducive to gangrene, 1 Rust’s Magaz. b. six. s. ‘229, 1825. where tumours, in the manner already referred to, pierce the cutaneous or aponeurotic struc- tures ; the edges of the unyielding tissue, which has undergone perforation, exercise forcible constriction on the pedicle of the tu- mour and interrupt its circulation *. But this theory involves some postulates not easily re- concileable with ascertained facts. Pulpy en- cephaloid is a dead-white or pink-coloured opaque matter of creamy consistence, without much viscosity, presenting no gangrenous odour, and never giving rise to the symptoms of mortification. How comes it to be thus distinguished from other animal matter in a state of sphacelus ? If it be urged that in softening of the brain, the cerebral substance presents similarly exceptional characters, and yet is gangrenous, we reply that this too is hypothetical. And the objection seems to acquire further weight from the fact, that, in some instances, the destruction of cancer is accompanied with the ordinary appearances and symptoms of gangrene: this, we are aware, may be said to depend on implication of some of the natural tissues. Again, vessels are at no period more abundantly manifest in ence- phaloid than when softening has actually set in, a fact forming the chief groundwork of Lobstein’s notion just referred to. Dr. Hodg- kin endeavours to reconcile this fact with his own views by the hypothesis, that the observ- ed vascularity is the result of “ irritation which the softened part excites in the neighbouring parts, which still retain their life and organiza- tion.” On the whole, the mode of softening of encephaloid (exclusive of that produced by haemorrhage) seems to require further investi- gation. The appearance of softened scirrhus is cha- racteristic ; it is that of a yellowish-brown semi-transparent gelatinous pulp, not unlike apple-juice, lodged in irregular cavities, the walls of which, free from membranous lining, present all the characters of firm scirrhus. The colour of the matter is liable to vary, from impregnation with blood. The gelatinous contents of colloid cells ap- pear to possess the same degree of softness at every period of their existence. The attempt made by Velpeau, to show that tissue of napi- form, or solanoid aspect, forms the primary condition of colloid, is by no means successful. The softening and destruction of the mass must, therefore, depend simply upon the oc- currence of these changes in the containing septa, the consequent rupture of the loculi, and escape of their contents. Opinions differ respecting the mechanism of this rupture. G’ruveilhier conceives that the process re- sembles a gradual wearing out (usure), layer 1 According to Dr. Hodgkin, when the supply of nourishment is not promptly cut off by the operation of this natural ligature, the parts under the influence of such imperfect nutrition, instead of becoming gan- grenous, gradually acquire an increase of density and ultimately become penetrated with “ bony matter.” It is not stated in what manner this observation was made.