51 ADHESION. of organic exaltation in the internal surfaces,— whether adhesions be morbid, or reparative, the result is uniform ; it becomes of the same nature as cellular tissue, from which, after a lapse of time, it can no longer be distinguished: it is, in fact, cellular tissue. This, to use the expression of Cruveilhier, is the organizing, as well as the disorganizing, element. No re- parative process can take place in the muscu- lar, tendinous, osseous, or nervous fibres of themselves ; and if they were not abundantly supplied with cellular tissue, both within and around them, their lesions would be irreparable. Muscle contracts, nerve feels, and glands se- crete ; but to these purposes their functions are absolutely limited : their diseases are con- fined to their cellular tissue, and through it alone they receive the principles of nutrition or decay ; and this is so strictly the property of the cellular element, and so active is this power where it abounds, that we often find, in treating surgical diseases, where it is desirable to prevent adhesion, how very difficult it is to control this tendency. Every surgeon knows what care and attention are necessary when it becomes an object to maintain a fistulous open- ing as a substitute for an obliterated natural one ; as, for instance, the urethra obliterated by strictures and extensive extravasations, Steno’s duct, the nasal duct, &c. Let us now trace the changes which take place in the effused fluid until it becomes fully organized. It is certainly a most remarkable property in blood, that the moment it comes in contact with an inflamed tissue it coagulates; this is one of the earliest effects of inflamma- tion in an artery or vein : the inflammation of cellular tissue produces the same effect on the effused lymph, a fact which did not escape the observation of John Hunter, and which, by the way, might not have been destitute of weight with him when he connected adhesion with a particular stage of inflammation. After it has been effused twenty-four hours the coagulated lymph is white, areolar, and membraniform ; in forty-eight hours, often earlier, it is vascu- larized, and furnishes blood from numerous points if any attempt be made to break it up ; in three days its organization, though not per- fect, is still more advanced ; and in eight or ten, it is so solid that it resists any attempt at laceration as powerfully as the surrounding parts ; finally, it is fibrous and cellular. We have been hitherto contemplating the subject of adhesion, as between the two sur- faces of an external wound. Let us now sup- pose a lesion in which the surface of the body covering the wounded parts remains entire, and there is consequently no access afforded to the external air, and no opening through which the injured parts can be relieved of the presence of the extravasated blood. The question has been much agitated amongst pathologists, as to the mode by which the effused fluid establishes the continuity of the separated parts—Do the two ends of a divided vessel in a clean wound inosculate directly, when brought into contact or close proximity ? Or do new vessels arise in the concrete mass of lymph, and by extending branches towards the surrounding parts, es- tablish a new order of anastomoses ? In reference to the first question, Hunter observes, in a note, “ I never could get an opportunity of observing it, in all my experi- ments and observations on inflammation, ex- cept in the coats of the eye. In many in- flammations of that organ, we find an artery, or arteries, passing from the tunica conjunc- tiva to the cornea, and ramifying on that part. These have been cut across to prevent the influx of blood ; the two ends are seen to shrink, but, in a little time, they are again perceived to unite, and the circulation is car- ried on as before. In this there can be no deception.” There is another experiment by Duhamel, which bears upon the same point. He broke the legs of six chickens: after the bones had united, he cut across about a third of the soft parts covering the callus ; as soon as the wound had cicatrized, he cut across another third down to the bone ; and when the se- cond division had cicatrized also, he cut the remaining third. When the whole was healed, the injection from the upper part of the thigh penetrated to the extremity of the claws. “ I cannot,” says Duhamel, “ affirm, whether the large vessels injected were dilated capil- laries, or the large vessel of the leg itself re- established, but this experiment proves irre- fragably the inosculation of blood vessels.” In this conclusion Duhamel however deceives himself; the experiment merely proves the possibility of re-establishing the circulation after all the large vessels surrounding the limb had been successively divided, but not the direct inosculation of the divided vessels themselves. In regard to the second question, whether the new vessels are the product of spontaneous generation, the evidence seems more direct and conclusive. “ In a vast number of in- stances,” says Hunter, “ I have observed that, in the substance of the extravasation, there were a great number of spots of red blood, so that it looked mottled. The same appear- ance was very observable on the surface of the separation, between the old substance and the new, a good deal like petechial spots. Was this blood extravasated along with the coagulating lymph ? In this case I should rather have supposed it would have been more diflused. I have therefore suspected parts have the power of making vessels and red blood, independent of the circulation.” An ingenious explanation has been pre- sented of the mode in which the new vessels are mechanically hollowed out, but which is not however ottered to the exclusion of the vital influences which direct their formation. It is well known, from the experiments of Dr. Clanny and others, that the blood contains carbonic acid gas in considerable quantity. Brande estimates it at a cubic inch for every ounce of blood. I saw Dr. Clanny procure it from the blood of a patient whom he had just ordered to be E 2