660 CANCER. subject we beg to refer the reader to the dif- ferent productions quoted in the following pages, but especially to the elaborate volumes of the Wenzels, Ebermaier, and Chelius ; and shall content ourselves with laying before him a brief abstract of the present state of know- ledge respecting it. The errors of the older observers testify strongly to the encep/ialoid character of fungi of the dura mater : these tumours were in fact by early surgeons' in numerous instances mistaken, from the appearance of their consti- tuent materials, for hernias of the brain. The fact, however, now rests upon surer founda- tion : that perforating fungous tumours of the meninges are in the majority of cases com- posed of this tissue is now fully established by the combined testimony of the elder Sie- bold, Ebermaier, Graff, Schnieber, Otto, Wishart, Abercrombie, Schindler, Chelius, Cruveilhier, Velpeau, &c. But true scirrhous tumours also spring from the meninges and destroy the investing bony substance, as ap- pears from M. Velpeau’s Cas remarquable; here a tumour of this description made its way partly through the occipital bone : M. Cruveilhier’s plates exhibit some examples of meningeal cancer belonging to this species, and others have been described by German investigators. Areolar pultaceous cancer has been found in the cranial bones. Seat 1. Dura mater: (a.) External lamina, or surface.—Such is still believed by the gene- rality of surgeons to be the sole seat of fun- gous growths exhibiting themselves in the form of a tumour on the exterior of the cra- nium. This opinion, originating with Louis, received the support of the Wenzels2, but was strenuously combated by Walther and others on the evidence of some cases observed by themselves, in which the morbid matter distinctly sprang from other sources. Inde- pendently of those referred to or related by Louis and the Wenzels, there are several others on record proving that the external surface of the dura mater may be the nidus of these growths. Klein, for example, states that, in a case which he had an opportunity of treating, the tumour was detached without the least difficulty from the perforated bone, from which it appeared to be separated by a particular membrane, and was in organized connexion with the external surface of the dura mater alone. Wedcmeyer observed a tumour growing from precisely the same seat, in respect of tissue, and protruding through the frontal bone. In the case of M. A. Be- rard the deep surface of the dura miter was perfectly healthy, and the tumour, unconnect- witli these, we have thought it advisable to consider them in the same place. Here might also be included cnccphaloid growths originating between the skin and the fascia of the scalp. 1 A. Pare, Pauw, &c. 2 The Wenzels, however, admitted on the evidence of Sandifort’s case and of another observed by them- selves, that the disease may he developed in the cra- nial bones. cd with the osseous tissue, extended laterally on each side of the perforation, separating the former from the latter. Mr. Travers and Mr. Mackenzie relate equally convincing cases. Richerand goes so far as to affirm that it is rare to open an old subject without find- ing heterologous tumours on the external sur- face of the dura mater : Boyer, with less in- clination to exaggerate, contents himself with commenting on their frequency. In their incipient stage they form small grayish vege- tations, are exceedingly firm, and of “ larda- ceous ” aspect. (b.) Internal lamina or surface.—The pre- cise locality of cancerous growths developed in this situation is in all probability the cellu- lar tissue connecting the dura mater and pari- etal arachnoid ; and they are certainly of more common occurrence here than on the cranial surface of the former membrane. Why they should not so frequently come under the no- tice of the surgeon as the class just noticed will presently appear. Carcinomatous tumours of the serous surface of the dura mater have been observed by Gondanges, Baillie, He- breard, Meckel, Otto, Wishart, Ebermaier, Cruveilhier, and Velpeau. Chelius refers to six specimens of the disease contained in the Strasburg museum ; and in one of his plates represents cancerous tumours co-originating on both surfaces of the fibrous membrane. Dr. Bright has also figured specimens of the disease in this situation, and shown, with Eber- maier and others, that the so-called glands of Pacchioni may give origin to it. The ordi- nary tendency of cancers developed in this situation is, as remarked by Otto and Cruveil- hier, to grow inwards and depress the brain ; under these circumstances they strictly belong to the department of medical pathology But in comparatively rare instances they manifest an opposite disposition in respect of their growth, press on the skull, determine absorp- tive destruction of its substance, and protrude externally. In one case described by Cru- veilhier, protrusion had actually occurred ; in another perforation was in progress : one of the internal meningeal tumours discovered in the subject of Velpeau’s Cas remarquable had partially perforated the occipital bone. 2. Pia mater.—A specimen of cancerous growth, originating either in the pia mater itself or in the cellular tissue uniting it to the arachnoid, is figured by Cruveilhier1: although there was no perforation here, there can be no doubt that such effect might arise from the presence of a tumour in this situation, as some- times happens when they are still more deeply seated. Dr. D. Munro2 long since described a tumour, evidently encephaloid, growing “ on the brain,” and which had perforated the frontal bone : J. Hunter refers to a perfora- ting growth originating, as he believed, from the pia mater3: Mr. Mackenzie4 is of opinion 1 Livr. cit. PI. 3, Pig. 3. 2 Med. Trans, vol. ii. p. 333; Lend. 1772. 3 On the Wood, vol. ii. p. 337; 1312. 1 On Diseases of the Eve.