EAR, AND HEARING, DISEASES OF. tube remaining collapsed, and even being rurgio und Augenhcilkundc, Bd. vii. p. 297—299, sage leading from the carotid canal into the tympanum, to the promontory. The veins corresponding to the above arte- ries open into the external veins of the head and back of the neck, the inferior petrosal sinus and maxillary veins. (6) Physiology of the middle ear. The air contained in the cavity of the tym- panum may be considered an important phy- siological part of the apparatus of hearing. By means of it an equilibrium of pressure is kept up on either side of the membrana tym- pani, which is thus maintained in a state fa- vourable for vibration, whilst free scope is at the same time afforded to the play of the small bones upon each other. Besides this, the air in the tympanum is itself a medium of transmission for the sonorous undulations. The Eustachian tube admits the air, pre- viously raised in its course along the respira- tory passages to the temperature of the body, from the posterior nostrils, into the cavity of the tympanum, and again gives vent to some portion of it, as when, by contraction of the tensor tympani muscle, the membrane is drawn inwards and the capacity of the cavity dimi- nished. It is to be remarked, that the Eusta- chian tube is not habitually wide open, so that the air can flow freely in and out, but that, on the contrary, in the state of rest, its walls lie collapsed. By this arrangement, which gives to the Eustachian tube the properties of a sort of weak valve opening either way, the too ready course of the air is opposed. Besides being a passage for the air to and from the tympanum, the Eustachian tube serves for the escape of the secretions of the tympanic cavity, the expulsion of which ap- pears to be promoted by the action of the vibratile cilia on the surface of the mucous membrane of the tube. From the connexion which the membrana tympani has with one end of the chain of os- sicles, the tension of it is capable of being va- ried by the action of the muscles of these ossicles. The quantity of air in the tympa- num also influences the tension of the mem- brana tympani. By a forced expiration with the nose and mouth closed, the tympanum is distended, and the membrana tympani being the only yielding part, is forced outwards and rendered more tense than natural. On the other hand, by making a forced inspiration, the nose and mouth also closed, the tympa- num is in part exhausted, and, by the conse- quent pressure of the air in the external audi- tory passage, the membrana tympani is forced inwards, the effect of which is likewise in- creased tension. The Eustachian tube being dilated during the inflation of the tympanum, the air flows back, and the distended state of the tympanum ceases as the effort at a forced expiration is desisted from ; but the exhausted state of the tympanum may continue for a short space of time after the forced inspiration, in consequence of the walls of the Eustachian pressed closer together, by the air tending to get into the exhausted tympanum. It is to be remarked, that increased tension of the tympanum cannot take place without influencing the state of tension of the mem- branes of the fenestrse. The membrane of the fenestra ovalis being connected with the end of the chain of ossicles opposite to that which is connected with the membrana tym- pani, the state of tension of the one must in- fluence that of the other. Moreover, the tension of the membrane of the fenestra ovalis cannot be altered without indirectly influencing that of the membrane of the fenestra rotunda, which must also be affected by the varying pressure of the air in the tympanum. Hence there must be some relation between the state of tension of the parts within the labyrinth, and that of the membrana tympani, conse- quently the impaired hearing, especially for grave sounds, which takes place during a state of increased tension of the membrana tympani, cannot be owing solely to this cause. Mode of propagation of sound from the mem- brana tympani to the labyrinth. Some physio- logists assert that the sonorous undulations are communicated from the membrana tympani to the ossicles, and through them conducted to the vestibular fenestra. Others suppose the undulations to be propagated merely through the air in the cavity of the tympanum to the membrane of the fenestra rotunda; the ossi- cles and their muscles serving the purpose merely of regulating the tension of the mem- brana tympani, the membrane of the vestibu- lar fenestra, and indirectly that of the fenes- tra rotunda, together with the membranous labyrinth. A combination of the two views is what is most generally received. How well founded soever the view may be that sound is propagated through the chain of small bones, the circumstance that some degree of hearing may persist along with loss, partial or com- plete, of the membrana tympani, and of the malleus and incus, is a conclusive proof that sound may be conveyed through the fenestrae to the labyrinth by the vibrations of the air in the tympanum alone. It would appear also that the integrity of one fenestra may suffice for the exercise of hearing. Thus Dr. Pap- penheim 1 relates two cases in which some de- gree of hearing was still retained, although in the one the base of the stapes was anchylosed in the fenestra ovalis, and in the other the membrane of the fenestra rotunda was ossified. The reason that the loss of the stapes is so destructive of hearing, is not that it is essen- tial for the transmission of sound to the laby- rinth, but that as its base forms part of the wall of the osseous labyrinth, the loss of it usually involves the evacuation of the peri- lymph, and the consequent disorganization of the whole labyrinth. I say usually, because cases are recorded2, in which, though the ' Die speciellc Gewebclehre dcs Gebororgans, &c. pp. 148—151. s Dr. Wolf, Graefe und Waltlier’s Journal fur Clii-