588 CAMPHOR. tain almost everything known respecting the uses of calomel in modern surgical practice. Bibliography.—Lysons, Daniel, On Calomel and Oampliire. Loud. 1771. Additional Observations on the same. Lond. 1777. Clare, On Abscesses, and on a new method of introducing Calomel into the circu- lation. Lond. 1779. Hamilton, On Calomel in inflam- mation, in Duncan's Medical Commentaries, vol. ix. Edinburgh, 1785. Travers, B. (and Cooper's) Surgical Essays. Lond. 1818. Farre, Letter in same work. Armstrong, Lectures in Lancet, vol. iii. Annesley,On Diseases of India. Lond. 1825. Brettonneau, Des Inflammations speciales du Tissu Muqueux. Paris, 1826. Babington, On Sloughing Sores. Lond. Med. Journ. vol. lvi. p. 204. and vol. lviii. p. 288. Lond. 1827. Lawrence, On Diseases of the Eve, and on Venereal Diseases of the Eye. Lond. 1830. Trousseau; Rev. Med. 1830. iii, 433. (on diptherite). Burdock, in Rev. Med. 1831, i. 119. Alerat and Delens, Diet. Univers. de Mat. Med. Paris, 1832; art. Mercnre. Flliotson, Lectures in Med. Gaz. vol. viii. Biett, ibid, p. 540, quoted from Gazette des Hopitaux. Friclce, Med. Gaz. vol. xxii. p. 397. Adam, in Glasgow Med. Journ. August, 1830, and Colics, in Dub. Hosp. Rep. vol. iii. and iv. On Calomel in the disease arisingfrom dissection wounds. Copland, Diet, of Pract. Med. art. Erysipelas. Cazenave, in Diet, de Med. art. Calomel. Paris, 1834. Cullerier and Ratier, in Diet, de Med. et Chir. Paris, 1834. art. Mcrcure (a most unphilosophical production, full of bad a priori reason- ing, denying the efficacy of calomel, and styling it “ innocent par impuissance"). Pereira, Lectures on Mat. Med. Med. Gaz. vol.xviii. Ure, Practical Com- pendium of Materia Medica, adapted to diseases of Children. Lond. 1838. Colies, On Venereal Disease. Lond. 1837. Ricord, Traite des Maladies veneriennes. Paris, 1838. Geddings, On Pseudo-membranous In- flammation of the Throat. Amer. Journ. Med. Sc. No. xlviii. May 1839. Ferguson, Essays on Diseases of Women. Lond. 1839. The use of Calomel in In- flammation fully considered. (Robert Druitt.') CAMPHOR. Caiifur, Arab. ; Kampfer, Ger. ; Camphora, Lat. This well-known sub- stance is the product of many members of the vegetable kingdom. It is contained in the sas- safras, zedoary, peppermint, and all that class of aromatic plants, whose pungency is suc- ceeded by a sense of coolness on the tongue. But it is from the Laurus camphora, a native of Sumatra, that it is obtained in quantities sufficient for the purposes of commerce and medicine. After its importation it is purified by re- peated sublimations ; and when it reaches the apothecary in its finished state, is in the form of hemispherical cakes, white and translucent, crystalline in texture, and of a peculiarly fragrant smell and taste. We need scarcely say that it is exceedingly volatile ; that it is very sparingly soluble in water, but that it dissolves very readily in alcohol, ether, the fixed and volatile oils, and the strong acids; from which, however, it is immediately pre- cipitated by the addition of water. More- over, when distilled with strong nitric acid, it is converted into a peculiar acid called the camphoric ; and when distilled with argillaceous earth it is converted into a peculiar oil, called oil of camphor *. But the terms camphoric 1 Bouillon-Lagrange. Manuel d’un Coins tic G’lii- mic. Paris, 1812. tom.'ii. p. 210. Sec also, An. de Cb. vol. iv., p. 180. acid and oil of camphor have both been im- properly applied to a mere solution of camphor in nitric acid ; a combination which has cer- tain surgical uses, which we shall mention presently. The effects of camphor on the animal economy differ very much according to the quantity administered, and the state of the recipient. Sometimes it increases vascular and nervous excitement, and sometimes di- minishes them ; and some doses will often produce during health the very same symp- toms which other doses will remove in dis- ease. Small doses, such as five grains, produce scarcely any effect on healthy persons. Larger doses, such as fifteen or twenty grains, have been found by repeated experiments to cause fulness and rapidity of the pulse, flush- ing of the countenance, brilliancy of the eyes, and mental excitement resembling intoxica- tion ; the urine was passed frequently, and with a sensation of heat, and during sleep there were frequent erectiones cum emissione'. In larger doses still, such as two-scruples, it has been known to cause giddiness, chilliness, languor, and confusion of intellect, gradually passing into total unconsciousness, and fol- lowed by convulsive fits and maniacal frenzy'2. When judiciously administered in disease, we find it capable of allaying pain and spasm ; but its principal use is that of combating delirium, convulsions, and excitement of the genitals, the very symptoms, which, as we have just shown, it is most liable to create in healthy persons. If therefore its action re- quires to be named, we must call it, not merely stimulant or sedative, but rather a perturbative or alterant of the general state of the nervous system3. And in this respect it resembles the oil of turpentine, which is very nearly allied to it in chemical composition. For this latter substance, although a powerful stimulant, is yet capable of acting as a very valuablesedative, when properly administered. When camphor is taken internally, it is ab- sorbed into the blood, its odour permeates all the tissues, and is exhaled from the lungs, and it frequently causes profuse perspiration. Camphor appears to be administered with most benefit when nervous derangement ac- companies a depressed state of vascular action. In tne delirium which often succeeds severe injuries, in typhoid fever attending gangrene, in the disease arising from dissection wounds, and in severe cases of carbuncle and phlegmo- nous erysipelas, the surgeon may often employ it with benefit. A very good form is the strong camjtkor mixture of Dr. Hooper, made by triturating half a drachm of it with a little magnesia or almond confection, and adding six fluid ounces of water. The dose is one 1 Lucas Scudery, M.D. Arch. Gen. de Med. vol. xxi., p. 131. 1 Alexander, Phil. Trans. 1767, and Experimental Essays, Lond. 1768. 3 Ratier, Diet, de Med. et de Chir. Prat. Paris, 11530, Art. Camphre-