76 ALVINE CONCRETION. final canal. It is obvious that the former of these methods is applicable only when the concretion is lodged within the rectum, and a few inches above the sphincter ani. This method of operating was practised successfully by Monro primus. In one case, after the ex- traction of a large concretion, the patient passed two others. The same operation has been performed with success by Mr. R. Mar- shall, Mr. Mein, of Dunn, and by Mr. Good- ser, of Largs. Operation for the extraction of concretions in the alimentary canal by incision.—There has been some difference of opinion as to the most fit place for making an opening into the intes- tinal tube. The mode directed by my father, who was the first to recommend this opera- tion, will be found in the following extract:— “ If the concretions shall, by increasing, or by change of place, obstruct and stop the pas- sage entirely, it is, I apprehend possible to save life by taking them out by an operation ; for, as the colon is, on its back part, not covered by the peritoneum, but connected by cellular substance only to the muscles, if an incision be made on the posterior part of it, between the twelfth rib and upper part of the ilium, or immediately above the ilium, the colon may be opened, without opening into the cavity of the belly; and the wound, I have little doubt, could be cured without much danger, especially as, in the course of last year, I have seen it in one case wounded by a pistol ball, and in another eroded at this very place; and yet in both the openings were healed soon. “ Tlie operation may be performed in the following manner : “ Let an incision be made from the twelfth rib, at the distance of two inches from its point, directly downwards to the top of the os ilium. Then cut slowly, and with great caution, inwards and forwards, till the back of the colon is laid bare for a little way. Then, with one hand, press on the fore part of the tumour, and, with a finger of the other hand, try whether you feel the tumours within the colon. If you think you do, make a very small hole in the colon, and introduce a probe ; and, by that means, make it certain that the balls are there by touching them with it. Then, with the greatest caution, enlarge the incision as much as is necessary for introduc- ing a pair of forceps, such as are used in li- thotomy, for laying hold of and extracting them. After they are extracted, and the faeces that may be collected there are pressed out at the wound, let the sides of the incision be pressed together, and let the external part of the incision be stitched, by sutures passed through the skin, at the distance of a finger- breadth from each other. Cover the stitches and incision with straps of adhesive plaster, and with thick pledgets spread with ceratum simplex, and with a compress and bandage, so as to exclude the air.” The proposal of making an artificial open- ing into the sigmoid flexure of the colon, in order to remove the extraneous body lodged within that bowel, is grounded on the results of the experiments of Mr. Pring, who, in dif- ferent instances of disease affecting the rec- tum and obstructing it, has recommended the making an artificial anus in the groin '. A third mode of operating by incision has been recommended by Mr. Tortel, viz. the cutting immediately down upon the intestinal concretion, on the supposition that the risk of exposing the peritoneum and intestinal tube has been much exaggerated. But though experiments upon animals—and especially many experiments wrhich were made last winter by my assistant, Mr. Fyfe, have proved —that exposing the bowels, and even remov- ing a portion of them, does not invariably prove fatal, still I apprehend that the method of operating proposed by my father is not fraught with the same extent of danger, as the cutting down immediately upon the con- cretion lodged within a part of the intestinal tube. The preceding observations appear to me to have established the following propositions : —1st, That the greater number of concretions found in the human stomach or intestines con- sist chiefly of fibres of the beard of the oat, which are intimately matted together, and which probably have accumulated round a central nucleus.—2ndly, That they occasion a derangement of the functions of the aliment- ary canal, and create griping, obstinate and long-continued colicky pains, which are gene- rally limited to that part of the intestinal canal which contains the concretion, and which are occasionally more severe upon the patient taking acids, or food of difficult digestion.— 3rdly, That they may be generally felt within the intestines ; and when two or more of these are lodged within the intestines, they may be made to strike against each other.— 4thly, That they frequently change their situ- ation, and pass down into the rectum, which is thereby much extended, and, when so situ- ated, occasion acute pain and sense of weight in the back part of the pelvis, with a constant desire to go to stool, which the patient cannot gratify ; and they may, by the finger, or by an instrument passed into the rectum, be felt with- in it.—5thly, That they are, in some cases, discharged by vomiting, or along with the faeces. —6thly, That an intestinal concretion, after a certain time, cannot be moved from one por- tion of the alimentary canal to another, ow- ing to its increase in bulk, to the expansion of the coats of that part which contains the con- cretion into a sac, and to the unnatural con- striction immediately below it.—7thly, That they offer a mechanical obstruction to the pas- sage of the aliment through the intestines ; and if proper means be not taken to remove the cause of the obstruction, inflammation of the intestines follows, which proves fatal.— 8thly, That, in the earlier stages of the dis- ease, while the concretion may be moved from one part of the intestines to another, all that can be done is, to operate on the bowels, partly through the medium of mechanical action, 1 Med. Intel. No. 28, p. 61. Feb. 1822.