CANCER, TREATMENT OF. 655 5 The cachexia commonly exhibits itself in an intense degree, and the patient, who has usually suffered from thoracic symptoms, such as cough, oppression,and dyspnoea, sinks at last, death being not uncommonly accelerated by in- flammatory effusion into the pleura, or simple hydrothorax, accompanied with more or less pulmonary oedema, and with or without cancer- ous patches under the pleura1. Aged subjects, who die from causes independent of their cancer, frequently go off in an attack of senile pneumonia; the latent character of inflam- matory affections in old persons points to the necessity of ascertaining the physical state of the chest in such cancerous subjects, when the least suspicion of pectoral disease arises. According to Bayle, leucorrhcea of fetid character is a very uniform attendant on the closing stage, and does not necessarily depend on structural disease of the uterus; this is also true of the pain in the loins occa- sionally observed in the course of mammary cancer. Severe suffering is sometimes expe- rienced in the back between the shoulders ; this has been found by Sir A. Cooper to depend on carcinoma of the vertebrae. In a case of scirrhus of the breast observed by Sir B. Brodie sudden paralysis of the inferior extremities occurred two months before death. On post-mortem examination several of the dorsal vertebrae were found to have been converted into cancerous matter, and the lower portion of the theca vertebralis was filled with a serous fluid. The state of the spinal medulla however, is not mentioned2. In the majority of cases death occurs before the total destruction of the mamma; in others the ulcer extends from the axilla to the lower border of the pectoralis, while its basis is formed of the thickened pleura and ribs. These bones are sometimes cancerous, though the intervening muscles continue sound. Scirrhus is incomparably the most frequent species of primary cancer in the breast. Encephaloid, however, sometimes occurs, either of the solanoid or true cerebriform va- rieties, or of both combined, the former form- ing the basis from which the latter springs ; or the morbid growth originates in the wall of a simple or multilocular cyst with fluid con- tents, and assumes a phylloid, pedunculated, or irregularly tuberiform shape. The latter is regarded by Mr. Travers “ as the primitive form of medullary cancer, when it appears in the region of the mammabut this opinion is at variance with the experience of others. Colloid is occasionally witnessed in this situa- tion ; in the majority of instances forming part of a composite tumour. Deposition of scirrhus in the infiltrated form may commence in either of the com- ponent tissues of the gland. M. Velpeau 1 In a singular case, related by Cruveilhier, the oc- currence of pleurisy, acting like a counter-irritant, appears to have retarded the progress of the cancer, though it proved itself, eventually, the cause of death. Vide Livr. xxxi. a On Pis. of Joints, Ed. 3. p. 233. establishes three varieties of the disease, ac- cording to the tissue primarily affected. In the ramose variety the morbid action ori- ginates in the cellular laminae dividing the lobes of the gland ; an unequal, hard, ill cir- cumscribed tumour, which terminates insen- sensibly in radiating indurated bands among the adjoining cellular membrane, is the result. In these cases it is almost impossible to assign accurate limits to the disease, as the bands in question extend sometimes even to the axilla or twist under the border of the pectoralis major; the importance of tracing them to their apparent termination in extirpating the disease has justly been insisted on by a num- - ber of writers. The true glandular variety (the granulated scirrhus of Mr. Travers?) commences by the lobules of the gland. Here the tumour is knotted, wrinkled on the surface, moveable, tolerably well circum- scribed, and firm. The form referred to by Mr. Travers is stated to occur most fre- quently at the axillary border of the organ, and may attain a large size, mainly because most commonly developed in full-breasted women. In the third variety, the lactiferous ducts are the chief seat of the disease. In four or five cases of this kind examined by M. Velpeau the tumour was flattened from before backwards, not very painful, half as large as an ostrich’s egg, slightly tuberculated, and non-adherent. On section it was found to consist of ordinary scirrhus, speckled with small spots like granite, and presenting a number of minute open orifices, filled with caseous matter. This appears to be Mr. Travers’ spiculated scirrhus, which is seated “ chiefly among the tubes and towards the nipple.” It is hardly necessary to add, that with the progress of the disease these dis- tinctions, founded on the tissue affected, are lost, as the entire structure becomes involved. Mr. Travers well remarks, that as such characters are not dependent on the nature of the disease, but the anatomical con- stitution of the organ, they may exist in other species of growth. In some cases the course of the dis- ease in respect of the skin is not such as we have represented it. This membrane ap- pears occasionally to undergo the cancerous transformation coevally with, and as it were independently of, the subjacent tissues ; or, as Mr. Travers, Begin, Cruveilhier, and others have observed, the disease in rare instances actually commences with the skin. The natural suppleness, elasticity, and colour of this tissue are lost, it acquires a dusky brownish hue and coriaceous hardness, be- comes at a variable period studded with miliary pisiform scirrhous excrescences (most com- monly of the leucoid and mollusciform va- ricties according to Rayer) which successively undergo superficial abrasion; these minute ulcerations extend, become continuous, and form a single wide-spread ulcer. This variety may commence in the nipple. The atrophous and hypertrophous forms