363 ARM, BEND OF. basilic, which is also joined to the cephalic by a large vein, which from its position was formerly named the median vein ot the ai m , it is now known by the name of “ median ba- silic.” The largest and most regular, and most superficial vein, is the median basilic ; M. Cruveilhier1 nevertheless assures us, that the median cephalic is larger. M Gerdy* has compared the most regular distribution ot these veins to the form of the letter M, the two upper extremities of which would give off the cephalic and basilic veins, the three lower extremities would receive the radial, the common median, and cubital veins ; the two middle strokes of this letter represent the median cephalic and median basilic; this comparison may facilitate the recollection ot the most regular distribution of these veins, although, according to M. Lebaudy3, this “ regular disposition ” of the veins of the arm will be sought for in vain. In describing these veins, authors have not paid sufficient attention to one called the “ communicating vein,” which we consider a very important vessel, and seldom wanting. M. Velpeau4, in speaking of this vessel, says, “ the median vein divides into three branches, the first is very short, and called by M. A. Berard5 the perforating vein : it empties itself directly into the deep seated veins, in the same way that the saphena vein does into the cruial vein.” This comparison is not quite just; the saphena vein throws its blood into the crural vein, whence it cannot return, owing to the existence of valves which prevent this retro- grade motion ; in their diseased „state, these valves may become “ insufficient” and hence those fatal hemorrhages from bursting of the saphena varicose vein. Instead of consider- ing this vein a superficial vessel, it is more coi - rcct to view it as a deep-seated vessel, which unites these two order of veins ; the blood also flows from the deep into the superficial veins of the arm ; and here again the analogy with the saphena vein fails. We prefer call- ing this vessel the “vena communicans,” a name used by all the best writers and more correct than the one lately proposed by M. A. Berard. In our dissections we have always found this vein existing, and always in the same situation, at the outer side of the tendon of the biceps muscle, in that ridge formed be- tween the pronator R. teres 0 and supinator 1 Anatomic Descript., tome iii. p. 299. 3 Anatomic dcs Formes, &c. p. 183. 3 Anatomic Medicate et Chirurg., p. 95, dans Jour- nal des Con. Mcdico-Cliirurg. Paris, 1833. * Anatomie Chirurgicale, tome ii. p. 421. 5 Diction, dc Medccine, 2nd edit., tome ix. p. -1/. 6 Peter Camper has not delineated this vein in his beautiful engraving of the arm. M. Lebaudy, in Ins sixth plate, has given a correct representation of this vessel. My learned friend M. Velpeau has omitted this view in his fourteenth plate, which is badly exe- cuted, all the parts being pulled out ot their natural position. Dr. Jones Quain, in his 36th plate, fig. 1, (Series of Anatomical Plates,) represents the vein on the inside of the biceps tendon, uniting itselt to the median. cephalic and basilic, there being no median superficial vein, which, as iu M. Velpeau s case, docs R. longus muscles, where an opening in the aponeurotic fascia allows it passage, and which is probably somewhat enlarged during the contraction of the biceps muscle, as M. Be- rard justly remarks, owing to the peculiar ar- rangement of the “ fascia tendinosa bicipitis. I have seen this vein when the median vein was absent; in other cases when the cephalic was wanting. I have never observed it on the inner side of the arm, although I have made repeated dissections of this vein ; in fact it appears much more regular than the other veins of this region. When closely examined, this communicating vein will appear to be formed by the trunk of the deep-seated radical vein, which passing through the apo- neurotic opening, throws itself principally in- to the median basilic vein. This seems to be the case in M. Lebaudy’s plate, in which it is well delineated ; sometimes, on the contrary, it empties itself mostly into the median ce- phalic vein : it often contributes greatly in increasing the size of both these veins, as may also be observed in Dr. Quain’s plate. The great purpose of this vein is to form a com- munication between the superficial and deep veins on the outside of the biceps tendon, an empty space existing between the muscles, which allows the blood to pass uninterruptedly from the large and deep to the superficial veins, by means of this communicating vessel: this vein is also provided with valves which pre- vent the blood returning from the superficial to the deep veins, which is another reason for not comparing the saphena with the communi- cating vein. The saphena might with more propriety be compared to the basilic vein, which perforates the aponeurosis of the arm, and discharges its contents into the deep vein. It is a common practice during the flow of blood from the vein of the arm, to order the patient to work his fingers, when at each mo- tion the blood will generally jerk out with new vigour, and in a larger stream ; in moving the fingers, the flexor muscles contract and propel the blood from the deep-seated veins into the communicating branch. Many persons account for the increase of the stream of blood by ad- mitting numerous anastomosing branches be- tween the superficial and deep veins of the fore arm ; but where are these branches found ? Besides, the superficial veins are supposed to send their blood into the deep veins ; to say nothing of their being little influenced not ao-ree with the description of these vessels found in their own books. M. Blandin, in his plate, has also riven a poor and imperfect delineation of this vein, plates xvi., figs. 1 and 2. M. Bourgery, in plato 61 of his great work on anatomy, has given a very confused drawing of this vein, which he calls “ the anastomosing branch of the confluence of the super- ficial and deep-seated veins.” M. Malgaigne, like MM. Blandin, Berard, and Velpeau, considers this a super- ficial branch, which springs from the “ two median cephalic and basilic veins, and empties itself into the humeral artery.” Our author seems to have written this work in great haste, which accounts for his not correcting this singular mistake of artery instead of vein. See Op. cit., p. 444, tome ii.