305 FURUNCULUS. heeled shoe was then used for the purpose of keeping the tendo Achillis in its most complete state of relaxation, but ligamentous union only could be effected.” Some writers recommend active measures to depress the detached fragment, but it must be apparent that pressure at its upper edge will be most effectual in driving it towards the ankle joint. The most complete relaxation and entire rest of the gastrocnemii for about a fortnight will facilitate the first adhesions ; and subsequently the most gentle and gradu- ally increased tension will best convert those adhesions into a short and massive ligament. A moderate acquaintance with the contents of this article will hardly fail to make the student au fait in the management of the frac- tures of the remaining bones of the foot, which are few, and little varied. Bibliography.—Concerning Fractures in general. Duverney, Traite dcs Maladies des Os. Paris, 1754. Petit, J. L., Traite des Maladies des Os. Paris, 1758. Pott, Remarks on Fractures and Dislocations. Bond. 1770. Ditto, translated by P. Cassus. Paris, 1788. A it ken, Essays on Important Subjects in Surgery, etc., 1771. Boettcher, Abnandlung von den Krankheiten dcr Knochen. Berlin, 1796. Boyer, Leqons sur les Maladies dcs Os, publiecs par Richerand. Paris, 1803. Traite des Maladies Chirurgicales, tom. iii. Paris. Sue, Remarques et Reflexions sur quelques Maladies des Os. Paris, 1803. Dupuytren, Memoire sur quelques cas particuliers de Fractures. Bulletin de la Faculte, 1811. Sauter, Anvveisung der Bein- briiche der Gliedmasscn. Wint. 1812. Cooper, A., A Treatise on Dislocations, and on Fractures of the Joints. Lond. 1823. Campaigner, Des Fractures lneompletes, et des Fractures Longitudinales. Paris, 1830. Bernstein, Ueber die Verenkungen und Bein- bruche. Jena, 1819. Richter, Theoretiscli-praktischcr Handbuch der Lehre von den Briichen. Berlin, 1828. Sanson, Diet, de Med. et de Chirurg. pratiques, tom. viii. art. Fractures, 1832. Lonsdale, A Practical Treatise on Fractures, illustrated with woodcuts. Lond. 1838. For the Bibliography of Particular Fractures, see Traite de Chirurgie, par M. J. Chelius, traduit par J. P. Pigne. Paris, 1839. (T. Wilkinson King.') FRICTION, (frictio, Lat.) an important remedial agent, whether considered, simply, as a means of exciting increased activity of the functions of the skin, or as assisting the absorption into the constitution of various medicines when applied externally, as of mer- cury, &c. If employed with violence, Friction may give rise to a mechanical removal of the epi- dermis, or deeper structures : or moderately applied, but long-continued, may cause that indurated, almost horny, condition of the integuments which is so commonly observable in those parts of the skin exposed to its influ- ence, as on the hands of rowers, and which is closely allied in its nature to corns.—See Abrasion and Corns. The ancients paid great attention to Fric- tion both in their preventive and curative treatment;—they even classified it under vari- ous heads,—in respect to the degree of force with which it was to be applied; to the direc- tion in which it was to be made ; the time of its application ; the means by which it was employed ; its state, whether moist or dry, &c. ; and enumerated peculiar qualities or benefits attached to each of these several divi- sions. Such an arrangement has, however, long fallen into disuse. The particular application of friction, as used at the present day in the treatment of surgical disease, will be noticed in the respec- tive articles of this work, comprehending the cases in which it is employed. FUNGUS HiEMATODES. See Can- cer. FURUNCULUS, (Lat. dim. of fur; SoOn'jv, Gr. ; furoncle, clou, Fr. ; blutheulc, blutschwur, Ger.) ; a hard, circumscribed, in- flamed, acutely painful, conical tumor, the apex of which projects above the level of the surrounding skin, while its base is situated beneath it, in the dermic cellular tissue. It terminates in part in sphacelus, partly in sup- puration. From the throbbing and heat with which it is usually attended in its progress to maturity, it has vulgarly acquired in this country the name of a Boil. Furuncles are chiefly confined to the pe- riods of childhood and adult age, and, like most other cutaneous eruptions, occur to the greatest extent during the spring and summer months. They make their appearance on all parts of the body, but are chiefly found in those situations in which the dermic cellular tissue exists to the greatest extent, as in the nates, verge of the anus, perinseum, nape of the neck, arm-pits, &c. They frequently occur as very small cones on the edges of the eyelids, and are then commonly known by the name of Styes. (See Hordeolum.) The origin of these tumors is seldom, if ever, to be traced to an absolutely local cause. They not unfrequently accompany a deranged condition of some portion of the alimentary canal, or appear shortly after the occurrence of such derangement ; but this is by no means always to be observed, for they are sometimes met with in subjects, in whom no such means of accounting for their appearance can be detected. They are not peculiar to any one temperament, or state of constitution ; being equally found to exist in persons of a sanguine appearance and full habits, as in those of a leucophlegmatic con- dition, who live in ill-ventilated, damp habita- tions, and are subjected to a spare diet. Occa- sionally they seem to be developed under the influence of causes which are epidemic. It is the fact of the indeterminate nature of the circumstances giving rise to this affec- tion, which has produced such discrepancy in the accounts of authors respecting it; it being laid down in one place as a distinct rule, that the causes of furuncles are never local, while in another we see it defined as being, for the most part, an entirely local disorder. Furuncles show themselves of every size, from that of a pin’s point to that of a hen’s egg, and occasionally are met with even larger. They are rarely solitary : on the contrary, they are usually accompanied by