698 CANCRUM ORIS. which it bears any similarity. At an early stage it may resemble aphthae; but the latter occur chiefly in infants at the breast; they are accompanied by general symptoms, dif- ferent from those of gangrena oris: when eschars form, they are generally superficial, confined to the mucous tissue, and of a brown rather than black colour; the lesions, dis- covered after death from the two diseases, are also quite different. Malignant pustule com- mences on the skin of the cheek, and proceeds from without inwards: finally, common in- flammatory tumefaction of the cheek, occa- sioned by a carious tooth, may present, at first, some similarity to the early stage of gangrene, but is soon distinguished from it in its progress. Prognosis. — Almost all writers on this disease agree in thinking that it is extremely dangerous, and generally terminates in death, on the fifth to the fourteenth day after the development of the disease. We are not able to point out with much certainty the circum- stances which render gangrena oris more or less destructive or fatal: a few points, how- ever, seem to be determined by experience. In very young children the disease is more fatal than when it attacks those of from four to seven years of age ; for the former are, commonly speaking, weaker, more subject to the development of thoracic affections, and in them the dry form prevails over the ulcera- tive or pseudo-membranous. The strength of the little patient, his constitution, previous mode of life, locality of habitation, &c. must also influence the gravity and progress of the complaint, although it be difficult to ascertain the precise effect of each predisposing agent. The form which the gangrene may assume is the most important element; the dry form, especially its spontaneous variety, is extremely fatal; indeed, almost always terminates in death. Thirty-six cases observed by Mr. Taupin were all fatal. I possess myself twenty observations of this form ; all the children who were attacked perished : the pseudo-membranous form, on the other hand, is a mild disease, and the ulcerative very frequently admits of a cure. The cases ob- served by Dr. Webb, at the Children’s Asylum, Philadelphia, seem to have been of this kind ; for of twenty-three, nineteen recovered, and four only proved fatal. It is probable that the cases treated by Dr. Willis, at the Royal Infirmary for Children, also belonged to the ulcerative form of gangrena oris, although the example depicted in his excellent work on cutaneous diseases is one of dry or sphacelating gangrene. Dr. Willis saw only one fatal case in more than twenty, but says that if the gangrenous affection ex- tend to the cheek, nineteen out of twenty patients will perish. Complications.—The two first forms of gan- grena oris being comparatively mild, are sel- dom complicated by any serious lesion of the internal organs; but with the dry form, whether it occurs spontaneously or super- venes on the other two, we very frequently find acute disease of the thoracic viscera. Many years ago I pointed out the remarkable coincidence which exists between gangrene of the mouth and inflammation of the lungs ; M. Taupin has more recently drawn attention to the same fact. In thirty-six fatal cases M. Taupin assures us that he has found marks of acute disease, always confined to one side of the chest; viz. inflammation of the lung in twenty-eight cases (in seventeen of these, corresponding sides of the face and chest were affected), pleurisy in four cases, and in four gangrene of the lung. In four cases, together with pneumonia, he observed a gangrenous destruction of the mucous membrane, which lines the pharynx, oesophagus, and a portion of the stomach ; and in three cases, an in- flammatory softening of the large intestines. My own experience fully supports the cor- rectness of M. Taupin’s observation, with this slight exception, that 1 have not in- variably found inflammation of the lung in fatal cases of the dry form of gangrena oris. In two cases it was represented by tubercular excavations, without hepatization ; in one by effusion of serum, but I always found that one side of the chest only (in a majority of cases corresponding with the affected side of the face) was inflamed. Here an interesting question presents itself for inquiry : what connexion is there between the thoracic disease and the gangrene of the mouth ? does the former depend on the latter, or is the gangrene rather dependent on or influenced by the inflammatory affection of the chest ? I have paid considerable attention to these important points, but must confess myself unable to solve them at present. The following analysis often cases, eight of which arc published in a weekly journal, may serve in the mean time to throw some light on the question. In the first case symptoms of pneumonia manifested themselves seven days before the appearance of gangrene of the mouth ; the constitutional effects were severe, the pulse ranging from 140 to 156, and the respiration continuing above 70 ; the child survived ten days ; after death extensive gan- grene of the mouth was found to exist with hepatization of a small portion of the right lung. In the second case, also, pneumonia preceded the gangrena oris, by three or four days : the child lived for eleven days after the first appearance of gangrene ; here the de- struction of the mouth was greater than in the former case, but only a few nodules of lobular pneumonia were found in the left lung. In the third case the circulation and respiration were not much disturbed; the patient sunk on the twelfth day, and nothing was found in the chest except extensive adhesion of one lung to the sides of the chest. The fourth child was brought to the hospital in the last stage, and it was impossible to ascertain how long the inflammation of the chest had existed ; it occupied, however, a greater portion of the lung than in any former case, although the gangrene of the mouth was not very extensive. J