CATARACT. 725 of the knife, and then the attempts to redress the knife cause the opening in the cornea already made to gape, and thus allow the aqueous humour to escape, and the iris to fall against the edge of the knife ; and besides all this, undue and irregular pressure is exerted on the contents of the eye, so that the com- pletion of the section of the cornea is perhaps followed by the bursting forth of a quantity of vitreous humour with or without the lens. To illustrate the increasing deviation of the edge of the knife when improperly entered, we would mention a circumstance which every one must know. In cutting a slice of bread, if the knife be broad, and the edge not pro- perly directed at first, the knife either cuts out before making a complete slice, or it sinks deep in the loaf; and if allowed to go on, would cut a slice of very unequal thickness. Third stage or period.—The eye having been allowed to rest for about a minute or two, is now to be gently opened by the operator, and a 6mall pointed hook or needle, called a curette (see fig. 19, a), is to be carefully in- troduced through the incision of the cornea by raising the flap. The convex part of this instrument is to be directed foremost. After it has passed through the pupil its point is to be directed to the anterior part of the capsule of the lens, and this part is to be lacerated by cutting it with the point of the needle in dif- ferent directions. The needle or curette is then to be withdrawn in the same manner in which it was made to enter the eye, and all injury to the iris is to be carefully avoided. This being accomplished the patient is to be requested again to close his eyelids gently, and rest for a little. In the accomplishment of this stage of the operation no pressure must be made on the eyeball. Fourth stage or period.—This stage of the ope- ration consists in the removal of the cataract from the eye. To accomplish this last stage of the operation, the operator raises gently the upper lid with the point of his middle finger, and depresses the lower lid with the fore- finger of his left hand, by then making gentle pressure upon the eyeball by means of a cu- rette or scoop (fig. 19, b) placed on the scle- rotica at a small distance from the middle of the incision, the lens becomes displaced. Its lower edge rises up, and is tilted forwards into the pupil; by gently continuing the pres- sure the pupillary opening is expanded by the lens, and its exit through the pupil will be successfully accomplished. (See figs. 25, 26.) As the lens advances through the pupil it pushes forwards the flap of the cornea formed by the incision, as in fig. 26, and thus makes its exit from the eye. In some cases the marginal part of the lens is of softer consist- ence than the rest, and parts of it are broken off in its passage through the pupil. These, however, though they be left in the eye, are soon removed by absorption, and do not im- pede the success of the operation. Should the lens appear to be arrested in its progress outwards, between the lips of the incision, its exit may be assisted by the point of the curette, small hook, or barbed needle. If the lens appears to be falling to pieces, the removal of them from the eye is rather to be assisted by the curette or scoop, than by pres- sure upon the eyeball, which may force out a portion of the vitreous humour. After the removal of the lens from the eye, the divided portions of its anterior capsule contract by their elasticity towards the circumference, and thus leave the centre of the pupil free and open. The operation being now completed, it is desirable that the eyelids be gently closed as during sleep, without being forcibly pressed together : but, in order to satisfy the anxiety of the patient as to the resto- ration of his sight, it is necessary to turn his back to the light, to open his eye gently, and then desire him to look at some large object. This experiment had better be dis- pensed with; it has but one advantage, namely, that having been once made, it may prevent him afterwards from making trials by himself which might prove hurtful. Before proceeding to speak of the after- treatment we shall detail the modifications of extraction which may be required on account of particular states either of the cataract or of the eye. We shall then mention the chief ac- cidents which are liable to happen in perform- ing this operation, and the manner in which they may be averted or obviated. The operation for extraction, which has been described, is the mode of performing it on the left eye, making the incision of the cornea dowmwards. But when the right eye is operated on, the incision is in general made upwards, when the operator uses his right hand. Some operators, however, prefer making the incision or flap upwards in all cases, more particularly when the eyeball is very promi- nent, to prevent the closing of the lower eye- lid from raising the flap and preventing its union by the first intention. Other operators prefer making the incision diagonally across the eye by introducing the knife at the upper and temporal part of the cornea, and bringing it through at the lower part of the nasal side when the left eye is operated on, or vice versa, if upon the right. In making the flap of the cornea upwards upon the left eye, the ope- rator directs the edge of the knife upwards, and introduces its point through the cornea somew'hat below, rather than above its trans- verse diameter. In cases of cataract where the cornea is remarkably flat, and the iris projects forward in a convex form towards the cornea, so as very much to lessen the size of the anterior chamber, the case is certainly one very unfavourable for extraction. Yet this operation might be accomplished by dividing only one-third of the cornea with the knife, without attempting to carry it across the eye, and then enlarging the opening by means of scissors. But cases of this description should be considered unsuitable for extraction. In cases of floating cataract, where there is