389 FRACTURE. of the viscera without injury to the health ; on the other hand, the puncture of a lancet may cause erysipelas, suppurative phlebitis, or a peritonitis which is rapidly fatal; and before the muscles of the body are rigid in death, its fluids are fetid with decomposition. We should seek to anticipate the influence of dia- thesis, clearly and boldly, and, above all, with attention to points which are called “ small.” Many surgeons seem to think that a recent injury, or a wasting open fracture, precludes the possibility of the sufferers taking cold ; yet, the one is carried off by pneumonia, and the other by phrenitis. FRACTURES OF THE BONES OF THE LEG. These, as a set, are among the most com- mon of all fractures, although from the second table, at page 243, it wrould appear, that the femur is almost as frequently the subject of fracture as the tibia. The same table seems to prove that the tibia and fibula are equally liable to fracture. Mr. Lonsdale, how'ever, whose cases are more numerous, and taken more indiscriminately, supplies the following data:— In 1901 fractures, there were 41 of the tibia, 51 of the fibula, and 197 of the two bones ; or 289 in all. The tibia is the main support of the leg, and is more exposed to direct violence, (the sole cause of fracture in its upper half,) as well as to the irregular action of the super- incumbent weight, at a time when, perhaps, its inferior part is inextricably fixed. Fractures of this bone singly, usually assume rather a transverse direction. They occur in any part of its length ; but, excepting those caused by projectiles, they are found more frequent as the part is lower. The fragments are but little displaced laterally, and there is very little shortening. There seems to be less displace- ment of fragments as the division is effected nearer to the upper end; and the detection may be thus proportionately difficult. The patient may be able to walk. Pain, sensible inequality in the broken surfaces, and mostly crepitus, indicate these injuries. The fibula remaining entire renders the treatment of these cases easy. If there be displacement, a slight extension, with flexion of the knee, and slight extension of the ankle- joint, with simple means to secure the limb from accidents, will suffice to ensure good consolidation. I venture here to illustrate, a little farther, an opinion which has more than once been hinted at; and which, I conceive, may admit of more extensive application than it has hitherto been permitted to do. If I were the subject of a severe injury of the ankle, I should scarcely be willing to allow of pro- tracted or repeated manipulation to explore the precise nature of the accident. Even a sprain coidd only be aggravated by such prac- tice ; the mischief in severer cases would be increased materially; and the repair propor- tionately painful and dilatory. Gentle attempts to restore the form of the joint, if necessary; a good position, main- tained as mildly as possible; and the most cautious tentative endeavours to discover if the part may be employed, should, I think, in many such cases, comprise the main part of the diagnosis and treatment. Of course a violent and foolish patient is not a proper subject for great lenity. Fracture of the fibula may be produced at any part by a blow, but violent torsion alone of the foot, whether inwards or outw'ards fre- quently causes it to give way near its low’er extremity. This particular accident seems to have been very common in the experience of Dupuytren, who has stated its proportion, relative to all other fractures of the leg, to be as one to three. It is evident at a glance, that when the foot is fixed, and the tibia presses inwards or outw'ards, the connexions of the malleolus are strained, the shaft of the fibula next suffers, and this being the weakest part, yields. The precise site of the fracture is partly dependent on the direction of the violence. Fractures of the fibula, within three inches of the lower end, may occur from in- direct violence; but all above this limit are necessarily the effects of direct injury. Ac- cording to Dupuytren,—of about 200 exam- ples of broken fibula, six-tenths arose by the rolling inwards of the foot; three-tenths from its turning outw’ards ; and one-tenth from di- rect blow's. The last cases are probably more common in the more commercial cities. Fracture of the body of the fibula presents no shortening, and scarcely any perceptible inequality. The first indication of it may be effusion ; and crepitus may not be discover- able without unreasonable violence. Some- times the fragments incline towards the tibia. Inferiorly the lesion is more manifest to the touch ; above it is least so. Crepitus may be rendered more evident by turning the toes, or the sole inwards and outwards. It is a little remarkable, if the tibia and fibula be liable to fracture in nearly equal proportions, that the strength of each and their general susceptibilities are so different; but it is to be remembered, that very fre- quently the fibula does not give way until the yielding of the tibia has left the fibula alone, to resist the undue violence. Fractures at the middle of the fibula are very rare, for the reason, that direct force only can produce them ; and because the elasticity of the bone allows it to yield until it is even supported by the body of the tibia. * Dupuytren draw’s an interesting practical parallel, between fractures of the middle of the ulna and similar injuries of the fibula. The cause of each is direct violence. Their respective signs are slight ; whether displace- ment, loss of power, or crepitus; and the dia- gnosis depends much on the account of the accident, the pain and tumefaction, and the undue mobility of the fragments. Their treat- ment is by rest, avoiding bandages that de- press the broken ends. The same great authority states, that the most common site of fracture of the fibula is