319 FRACTURE. muscles are directly acting ; to this portion the surgeon directs his attention, and confines his attempts at reduction ; while the lower, which is really in fault, retaining its straight line, is regarded as the cause of the limb being shortened, but not as the protruder of the upper fragment. This process of displace- ment of the upper by the lower fragment, in simple or compound (open) fracture, if dis- placement exist, may be demonstrated on the dead body, or on the amputated limb. “ If such be, as I believe it is, the cause of displacement of the upper segment of a broken femur, humerus, or tibia; it clearly follows, that the direction which the displaced bone takes must be wholly dependent upon the line of fracture, and independent of the action of distant flexors, abductors, &c. Thus, viewing the femur anteriorly, if the fracture is seen traversing the bone downwards, from the in- ner to the outer aspect, the upper portion will be thrust outwards, as the line of fracture renders it impossible for it to take any other direction. Or if, on the contrary, the bone be broken in the opposite direction, the upper fragment will seem to be in a state of adduc- tion, that is, it will be thrust inwards’; and the same correspondence will be found to obtain between other lines of fracture, and the seve- ral other directions given to the upper part of the bone. “ Hence the treatment of fractures should be considered mainly with reference to the lower portion of bone; which, pressing upwards, forces the upper part out of the straight line; and this can easily be remedied by extension. If this pressure be removed by extending the limb, and drawing down the lower portion, the upper will fall, or be drawn into its place, as the obstacle to its re-adjustment becomes removed by absorption of the effused fluids. It is not intended to exclude the advantage which position affords; this must ever be attended to, by seeking for such a position as will relax the muscles of the limb, and give as much ease to the patient as is consistent with the security of the broken bone. “ In the instance of a fractured humerus, the weight of the limb is usually sufficient to pre- serve the bone in a straight line; and in such cases, the custom (a sound one in practice) pre- vails, of allowing the patients to walk about; in order that the limb may have the advan- tage of gravitation, which in the recumbent position would be lost. “ The tibia, when broken, requires a different application of force to preserve the ends of the broken bone in due apposition. Manual extension may enable the surgeon to replace them soon after the accident; and a well- chosen position may be all that is necessary to retain them. But in cases of oblique fracture with great displacement, continued extension is not unfrequently found requisite, both to effect a reduction of the broken ends of the bone, and to retain them in apposition. The simple contrivance of a weight and pul- ley effects this desirable end in the most effi- cient manner, and with the least suffering to the patient; who rarely complains of force employed in this way. It acts gradually but continuously ; and wearying the muscles, im- perceptibly draws the lower portion of bone into its proper line, and there retains it; while a modification of the starch apparatus, leads to a speedy union of the broken surfaces. “ In fractures of the femur, the same principle of gradual extension is necessary, in order to effect a good line of union, and prevent short- ening of the limb. The best mode of accom- plishing this, I have found to be by means of a double-inclined plane, the leg-piece of which can be raised or depressed, independently of the thigh-piece ; thus enabling the surgeon to extend the lower portion of the femur at plea- sure. From the third to the tenth day, ab- sorption of the effused fluids proceeds with more or less rapidity; and the degree of ex- tension employed can with exactness be pro- portioned to the progress of absorption, and to the capability of the surrounding muscular and other tissues to bear elongation. This principle I have for some time used in my treatment of fractured thighs at Guy’s Hos- pital. “ The aid which this principle of extension affords to the efficacy of the starch bandage, and the great advantages of M. Suetin’s mode of applying that valuable form of apparatus, in the treat ment of fractures generally, are matters of great interest and usefulness ; but the due consideration of these and other points, as, for example, the proper time and most conve- nient method of applying this bandage, would compel me to enlarge my communication be- yond the usual limits of a letter, to which I originally intended to confine myself. I shall therefore subscribe myself, my dear sir, “ Your faithful friend, “ C. Aston Key.” FRACTURES OF THE PATELLA. The patella may be fractured either by a blow, or fall upon the part, or by the action of the extensor muscles. The ligament of the patella is occasionally ruptured by the force of the extensor mus- cles, and sometimes the broad tendon of the extensors gives way, but less frequently than the ligament. The fractures produced by the violent ac- tion of the extensors of the leg are always more or less transverse. Longitudinal or ver- tical fractures are only produced by peculiar blows upon the bone ; but transverse frac- tures are by far the most common accidents. That muscular contraction alone will occa- sion the fracture, is made evident by the oc- currence of cases, in which the patients suc- ceed in preventing themselves from falling or striking the knee ; and the fall is also some- times, very evidently, subsequent to, and the immediate effect of, the fracture. The centre of gravity of the body being at the time, from some cause or another, inclined backwards,—