DIPLOPIA. 87G No. 7. “ Were the theory of corresponding point true,” Mr. Wheatstone remarks, p. 392, “ the appearance should be that of the superposition of the two drawings, to which however it has not the slightest similitude.” In answer to this, I would refer to what has been already said, from which it appears that there are compartments of the two retinae, having cer- tain limits, of which any one point or papilla of the one, corresponds with any one point of the other, so far that affections of them are not perceived separately. This, together with the fact that the more striking of two dis- similar retinal pictures, or the more striking parts of either retinal picture affecting cor- responding parts, exclude from the mind’s per- ception the less striking, and that even to some extent beyond their own outline,—is still, I conceive, applicable to the explanation of the phenomenon under consideration. What appears to be a principal condition for the perception of relief, or of intaglio, in consequence of two dissimilar perspectives of the object impressed on parts of the retinae within each other’s influence, is the oscillation of infinite velocity of the mind between the two resulting affections, when a mean, as it were, results. Another is, when parts of one image are excluded by the predominance of parts of the other, an influence on what is seen by what is not seen. In order that dissimilar perspectives of an object of three dimensions be received by the retinae, the optic axes must converge ; hence the part of the retina of either eye, on which the images are projected, is that where we find the foramen, yellow spot, and fold of Soemmerring. This together with the fact, that besides in man, the central fold of the retina has been found among the mammifera in the quadru- mana, the only other animals in w'hich the optic axes converge, has led me to conjecture that we have in the central folds of the retinas, a provision calculated to assist the coalition of very dissimilar perspectives on the two retina, and to render perfect our perception of relief or of intaglio, as presented by the object pro- jecting the dissimilar perspectives. Various considerations appear to me to favour this conjecture, but I refrain from en- tering further into the subject at present. It is to be remarked that we do not see every object single : and why ? for the reason that the more projecting an object is, the more dissimilar are its perspectives to the two eyes. Now, when the pictures on the two retinae are very dissimilar, the parts which ought to coalesce, occupy places far beyond the limits at which papillae of the two retinae are in- fluenced by each other; and therefore, an object, such as a needle for instance, looked at with one end directly towards us, is seen bifurcated or double. Before concluding these preliminary re- marks on single vision with two eyes, I think it necessary to allude to an experiment of Mr. Wheatstone, which he introduces with the following remark, p. 384 :— “ I have given ample proof that objects whose pictures do not fall on corresponding points of the two retinae may appear single. I will now adduce an experiment, which proves that similar pictures falling on corresponding points of the two retinae, may appear double, and in different places.” The experiment is to look at the figures, No. 6, in the stereoscope, when the observer will perceive a line, the extremities of which appear at different distances before the eyes. Looking now at the figures, after the faint vertical line has been added to the left hand one, as in No. 9, “ the two strong lines,” says Mr. Wheatstone, “ each seen by a different eye, will coincide, and the resultant perspective line will appear to occupy the same place as before; but the faint line which now falls on a line of the left retina, which corresponds with the