ABORTION. 21 anormal rigidity; the second, third, or fourth, would expand the organ more and more, or completely overcome its resistance, and at length natural parturition would be effected. Treatment.—The indications of treatment are to prevent abortion; and when that can- not be accomplished, to combat the unfavour- able symptoms which accompany it, and to obviate the accidents that may succeed it. The preventive treatment embraces the fol- lowing indications:—to remove the predis- posing causes; to repress morbid action ; and to avert the occasional causes. The principal predisposing causes are errors relative to the rules of hygiene ; the influence of temperament; plethora; disposition to hae- morrhage, and excessive menstruation ; here- ditary disposition; organic diseases of the uterus; and implantation of the placenta over the neck of the organ, which cannot be pre- vented by any plan of treatment; to which may be added, the diseases of the ovum and its appendages. When there is excess of rigidity of the ute- rine fibres, or of contractility or sensibility of the whole organ, refrigerant drinks, vene- section, warm baths, and emollient vaginal injections, with anodynes, are required. In the opposite conditions of the uterus, when there is feebleness and laxity of the fibres of its neck, and atony of the organ ; tonics, nutri- tive aliment, cold bathing, either simple or saline, and astringent vaginal injections are indicated. The best time for treating both states of the uterus is during the intervals between the pregnancies. When abortion is threatened in conse- quence of uterine congestion, tranquillity of mind and quietude of body ought also to be strictly enjoined. The apartment should be large, cheerful, and airy; the bed clothes light; bed curtains and fire should be removed in warm weather ; the diet ought to be light, nutritious, and digestible, consisting of the vegetable jellies, such as arrow root, sago, &c. ; the drink should be cool, as lemonade, barley water, imperial, toast water, &c. This plan ought to be persevered in by those who have had former abortions, for several days, as the slightest deviation from it will induce the disease with which they are threatened. There is much diversity of opinion as to the use of aperients in threatened abortion. Denman, Croft, and others, preferred allow- ing the bowels to be confined for two or three days; they considered that laxatives, by exciting them, would also irritate the uterus, and increase the danger of abortion. I have long followed this rule in practice. I have first tranquillized the uterine pains with sedatives ; and when they had ceased, admi- nistered castor oil with fifteen or twenty drops of the sedative or common tincture of opium. Indeed, the lancet or opium employed as soon as possible, with rest, and the remedies al- ready enumerated, will in most cases prevent abortion. I have generally found the opium succeed; and I should not defer giving it until bed-time, as recommended by a late writer. When the contractions of the uterus are spasmodic or convulsive ; antispasmodics, seda- tives, warm baths, and fomentations, generally afford relief. The treatment of abortion may be divided into preventive, palliative, and active. The preventive treatment must vary ac- cording to the exciting causes, which are to be combated or removed. In full habits, blood-letting, in small and repeated quantities, is one of the best means of preventing abortion ; Dionis advised it to be performed eight days before the second menstrual period1. It was the principal re- medy employed during the epidemic abor- tions which prevailed at Vienna in 1778-92. But it would be wrong to conclude with the vulgar, that venesection is necessary in all cases of pregnancy, and in all abortions. Ob- stetric writers advise it in threatened abor- tions, when women are robust and plethoric, but all condemn it when the constitution is enfeebled or delicate. In the latter cases, nutritious aliment and tonic medicines, such as cinchona, quinine, rhatany, &c. with a liberal use of wine, especially claret, and cold bathing, are recommended by Dr. Denman and others. Plethoric women often abort several successive times, between the second and third month of pregnancy ; but they may be conducted to the full term of gestation by repeated venesection at the recurrence of the menstrual periods, absolute rest, opiates, cold hip bath, or sponging the lower part of the abdomen, hips, and thighs, with vinegar, and cold water, and cold vaginal injections are sometimes beneficial. In most cases of threatened abortion, absolute repose on a mattrass or couch, and the exhibition of a full dose of morphia, or the sedative solution of opium, to allay uterine action, will prevent it. But when there is no hope of prevention, the degree of pain indicating the degree of action of the uterus, and such action favouring and producing the contractile power of the blood- vessels, the employment of opiates is contra- indicated, as it would tend to continue the htemorrhage. It is scarcely necessary to ob- serve, that the erect position, standing or walking, &c. cause the descent of the uterus in the pelvis, excite its action, and provoke abortion or premature labour. Opiates are also proper at the recurrence of the menstrual periods in irritable, nervous women, and when there is disorder or irritation in the bladder or rectum. Mr. Ingleby relates some instructive cases, in which he prevented abor- tion by the use of opiate suppositories. In one case the patient had aborted eight succes- sive times ; and in another, where premature labour was threatened, at the sixth month, he employed a scruple of opium in grain doses, and succeeded in conducting the pregnancy 1 Traite des Accouchemens. * Stull. Rut. Med.