FRACTURE. 394 nects the thigh splint to the rest of the appa- ratus. These slides are fastened by a screw, which turns against each of them. The foot- piece, e, has a foot-board connected with it, which allows of the angle being altered at pleasure by means of a slide in which it moves. The principle of the apparatus is precisely that of the common inclined plane ; and the limb is adapted to it in the same manner. The peculiar points gained by it are the following : —if the knee part of the leg be wanted to be placed at a different level to the rest, the Apparatusfor the treatment of certain fractures of the leg, described by Mr. Lonsdale. Of course the inter- rupted splint before de- scribed admits of being almost infinitely varied ; and the plan of Mr. Lonsdale’s machine may, I think, afford the basis of many less intricate but important adjuncts in practice. FRACTURES OF THE BONES OF THE FOOT. To these apply, mutatis mutandis, the obser- vations made on fractures of the hand. Par- tial or general crushes often leave only the choice of how much is to be saved or removed. The mass of bones being naturally impacted, renders them inaccessible to almost all parti- cular measures of coaptation and retention. The astragalus may be broken singly, in consequence of the violent descent of the tibia. Mr. Lonsdale relates such a case. There were no symptoms to indicate the nature of the injury decidedly; the joint was generally swollen; the patient was treated as for a severe sprain. Much inflammation and constitutional disturbance supervened, and the man died on the twelfth day from that of the accident. The astragalus was found to be split in two or three directions. Fractures of the os calcis, as of the bones of the foot generally, may arise from penetrating, gun-shot, or crushing injuries, (see Luxations, Amputations, &c.) ; but a specific injury of the os calcis deserves men- tion both on its own account and on that of its analogies. The following are related by Sir A. Cooper: “ Case.—Miss N., a lady about forty years of age, was walking in a field on the 6th of De- cember last, towards the close of the day, when she stumbled and fell to the ground, and for some time was unable to rise. By good fortune, some men were returning home from work, and finding she could not walk, carried her to a neighbouring house. I was sent for to examine the accident, and she informing me that she felt something strike the back part of the leg, I immediately supposed she had ruptured the tendo Achillis of that leg, and I instantly commenced examining that part, when I was surprised to feel something un- part, a, may be moved ; if the central part, b may be raised or depressed ; and if the foot part, c is to be moved so as to bring the heel up or down, as may be required. It will be seen by these three moveable pieces, that any prominence that may exist in one part of the leg more than another, can be remedied, as the pressure can be increased or diminished opposite to any part, according to the situa- tion and degree of the displacement of the ends of the bone.” Fig. 341. commonly sharp and hard, not like the feel of a ruptured tendon; I found it to be the os calcis which was fractured, and which was drawn up by the action of the gastrocnemii to three inches from its situation. I immedi- ately informed the lady of the accident she had sustained, and the necessary treatment; but, unfortunately, she was extremely deaf, and of a very obstinate temper, so that I could scarcely prevail upon her to go to bed. Though she had violent pain, she would con- tinue to irritate the part by bending and extending the foot with her hands, thinking it was only a sprain, and would soon be better ; the consequence of which was, that most violent inflammation ensued, and I was afraid she would lose her leg. By evaporat- ing lotions and poultices, however, in a week the inflammation and swelling was reduced, and I applied a bandage similar to the one described by Dr. Monro ; but was unable to bring the bones in apposition, nor could I prevail upon her to wear the bandage more than a week; therefore, I ordered her to wear a high-heeled shoe, which she has done ever since, and is now able to walk very well by the aid of a stick, and can bend and extend the foot at pleasure, the bone remain- ing in the situation before mentioned, and the interspace being filled up by ligamentous substance.” “ Case.—My friend, Mr. J. H. Green, related to me, some years ago, the case of a lady, who, going up stairs in the dark, and believing there to be another stair, when she had really ascended the whole flight, fractured this bone by the violent action into which the muscles of the leg were thrown in consequence of the efforts she made to preserve herself from falling. The patient was placed in bed, with the knee flexed and the foot extended until the inflammation was subdued. A high-