CALCULUS. i amined it. The calculus, or rather the three- fourths of it which still remained, were at once, on a request to that effect, placed by Pro- fessor Langenbeck at the disposal of the emi- I nent chemists named. They found its che- mical history to correspond in every particular with the account given by Marcet, and by a j very beautiful elementary analysis showed, • I that the constitution of the xanthic oxide was : the same as that of lithic acid minus one atom | of oxygen; that these two substances were in [ tact two oxides of the same radical, the for- i mula of lithic acid being Cs N4 H4 O3, that | of the xanthic oxide, which they of course de- i signate with the greatest propriety lithic or uric oxide, being C5 N4 H4 O2. We are not aware that the uric or lithic i oxide has ever been distinguished either in I solution or as a deposit from the urine ; but if we have concretions of this substance formed in the kidney, undoubtedly we shall also, with | due attention, detect it in the shape of a sedi- i ment in the urine; and the subject is men- tioned here in order that attention may be I drawn to the point. The lithic oxide may be expected to occur associated with deposits of the lithic acid. We j have, in fact, but to suppose the kidney to fall i somewhat short of its acidifying powers, to j have the lithic oxide instead of the lithic acid i (the oxide instead of the acid of urea) pro- ! duced. Elaboration of Urine which contains Cystine ( cystic oxide ) in solution or as a deposit.—The peculiar substance discovered and described by Dr. Wollaston as occasionally constituting urinary concretions, under the name of Cystic Oxide, has been several times discovered in urine, in a state both of solution and mechan- I ical suspension. Dr. Prout found the urine, in a case in which the formation of a cystic oxide calculus was going on to be secreted rather copiously, to have a specific gravity of l from 1.020 to 1.022, and to exhibit a yellow- i ish-green colour. It was faintly acid, and con- tained very little lithic acid and urea. Its surface by standing became covered with a greasy-looking film, which was cystic oxide. A copious pale precipitate was thrown down by the bicarbonate of ammonia, consisting of cys- tine and the ammoniaco-magnesian phosphate. In a case met with by Dr. Venables', in which renal calculi of cystic oxide had been passed, the urine, voided in medium quantity, was of a greenish-yellow colour, and had a slightly saline taste. Its smell was very peculiar, like that of the sweet-briar mingled with a fetid urinous odour. It slightly reddened litmus. Its specific gravity was 1.022. It had an oily ' consistency, and was slightly turbid from hold- ing an impalpable powder in suspension. The writer, also, detected this substance in a case in which there never had been any renal con- cretion passed, nor was there reason to suspect that any existed. His attention was arrested 1 Journal of Science and the Arts, vol. xxix. Jan. 1830. by the greenish-yellow colour of the urine, its peculiar smell, and its somewhat oily appear- ance when passed. It. reddened litmus paper very slightly, if at all; was of sp. gravity 1.030 ; did not coagulate by heat or nitric acid, and by standing became opalescent after thirty-six hours, from the presence of a fine pulverulent matter, part of which was depo- sited. Acetic acid threw down a pretty co- pious brown precipitate, which, collected on a filter, was found to possess all the properties of cystine. This urine held a considerable quantity of the phosphatic salts in solution, which seems common ; it showed no traces of lithic acid ; but was not deficient in urea ; al- though the three writers who have given any account of a urine in which cystine was con- tained, are agreed that the specimens they examined were deficient both in urea and lithic acid The best re-agents for discovering cys- tine in combination with alkalis are the acetic, citric, or tartaric acid ; in each of which it is insoluble. The bicarbonate of ammonia im- mediately throws it down from its soluble combinations with potash and soda. Elaboration of Urine, which contains the pur- puric acid and its salts.—When nitric acid, di- luted with five or six times its weight of water, is poured upon a quantity of pure lithic acid, and heat is applied, the lithic acid is dissolved with effervescence, and if it be in excess, nearly the whole of the nitric acid is decom- posed, with the evolution of equal volumes of carbonic acid and azotic gas. The solution when examined is found to contain a new acid, described by Brugnatelli2 under the name of erythric acid,and by Prout3, who investigated its qualities particularly, and determined its elementary composition, under that of pur- puric acid, from the fine purple colour which its alkaline and some of its earthly salts possess. The processes which take place in our labo- ratories appear occasionally to occur in the kidney. This, at least, was Dr. Prout’s opi- nion ; for he detected nitric acid in the urine, in certain febrile states, and he ascribed the red colour of the sediments of febrile urine, and the pink hue of the sediment of hectic and dyspeptic urine, principally to the pre- sence of a purpurate, generally the purpurate of ammonia, occasionally the purpurate of soda. The accuracy of this view of Prout was some time back called in question by Vogel, then by Frommherz and Gugert, and finally by Berzelius, who concluded from his experiments, that the red and pink colours of urinary sediments were not caused by the in- termixture of a purpurate of any base, but by the presence either of the ordinary colouring matter of the urine, or of a peculiar animal matter, which dyed the deposits in the man- 1 Vide Stromeyer in Ann. of Philos. N. S. vol. viii. p. 146 ; Prout, Inquiry, p. 166 ; Venables’ Journal of Science and Art, Jan. 1830. 2 Giornalc di Fisica, &c. tom. xi. p. 177. 3 Philos. Trans. 1818, p. 420, and Med. Chir. Trans, vol. ix.