864- DELIVERANCE. medicated substances were introduced into the vagina, and antispasmodic medicines given, yet manual assistance is not advised. Celsus, however, recommends that, immediately after the birth of the child, the secundines and any coagula are to be brought away by the hand : “ Medicus deinde sinistra tnanu leniter tra- here umbilicum ita ne abrumpat, dextraque eum sequi usque ad eas quas secundas vo- cant, quod velamentum infantis intusfuit; his- que ultimis apprehensis,venulas membranasque omnes eadem ratione manu diducere a vulva, totumque illud extrahere, et si quid intus praeterea concreti sanguinis remanet1.” We have given this quotation because some writers entertain doubts whether Celsus ad- vised this practice in all cases, or only after the birth of a dead child, or protracted labour. These opposite methods have been both extensively followed ; and, though it appears that the practice recommended by Celsus was pretty generally adopted in the middle ages, yet several writers taught that the secundines were to be left to the unassisted power of nature. Paulus jEgineta, Morgagni, Van Swieten, Delius, Zanetti, and others, posi- tively affirm that they may remain a consider- able time without danger to the female. AStius and Philumenus recommend the re- moval of the retained placenta by the hand ; but if the os uteri has contracted so as to ren- der this difficult, various relaxing means are advised. Manual efforts are only to be con- tinued during the first or second day, as the placenta, if left, will come away in a putrid state. They recommend also the use of pow- erful emmenagogues. Pare, in the fifteenth century, was the first to point out the errors in both extremes; for, while he deprecates the practice of leaving the placenta, he enforces most strongly the necessity of extreme cau- tion in our endeavours to remove it. Still hasty, incautious, and violent proceedings were much practised ; the funis was frequently torn away; or traction being made on the pla- centa before the uterus had time to contract, this organ was so easily inverted, that Ruysch, who wrote very strongly in the sixteenth cen- tury in favour of the plan of leaving the pla- centa entirely to nature in all cases, states that he was sent for, twice in one day, to cases of inversion of the uterus. Manual assistance continued to be very generally practised in this country, and was taught in London by Chapman, Manningham, and Smellie. In the middle of the eighteenth century, however, Dr. William Hunter, observing the evils, and relying greatly on the powers of nature, de- termined to try the result of leaving the deli- very of the placenta to those powers. This method was successful for some time ; the secundines being regularly expelled without accident, generally in an hour or two, some- times in twelve or twenty-four hours, and in some cases being retained for days without accident. But at length one of Dr. Hunter’s 1 Do Re Medica, lib. vii. cap. 29. private patients died soon after he left her room from a violent haemorrhage ; and in the practice of one of his pupils the placenta, after being retained thirteen days, was expelled a mass of putridity, and the patient died the same day. In another case a female died on the eleventh day, the placenta being still re- tained. Dr. Hunter, therefore, in his later years, adopted a modified practice, rendering assistance when the powers of nature were insufficient to complete her office, or any dan- gerous circumstances rendered it necessary. The separation and expulsion of the pla- centa is greatly influenced by the conduct of the attendant in the last stage of labour. If after the birth of the head, the expulsion of the shoulder and body of the child be left en- tirely to nature, the uterus gradually contracts and separates the placenta, which is found in the vagina in ten, twenty, or thirty minutes after the birth of the child. But it the deli- very of the child be accelerated by some officious person pulling the shoulder and body through the os externum immediately after the passage of the head, more or less retention will almost certainly follow. The uterus sud- denly loses its stimulus to contract, and it re- mains flaccid, or irregularly constricted. So impressed was Denman with this opinion, that rapid expulsion of the child prevented the full contraction of the uterus on the placenta, and thereby became a cause of its retention, that he advises us rather to retard the final expul- sion of the child, than to use any hurry or force in extracting it. But it appears that while he was thus warning us from one error, he was leading to another. The uterine con- tractions are, like all muscular efforts, fatigued by any exertion which is too violent or too long continued, and their remaining powers proportionably diminished. Now if, by arti- ficially retarding the birth of the child, we excite the uterus to unnatural efforts, a pro- tracted relaxation necessarily follows, which either leads to retention of the placenta, or, if this have been previously separated, to dan- gerous haemorrhage. Again, we are recom- mended by Drs. Clarke and Collins, and the practice is understood to be generally followed in Dublin, never to allow the uterus to relax after the birth of the child, “ pursuing, with a band on the abdomen, the fundus uteri in its contractions until the foetus be entirely ex- pelled, and afterwards continuing for some time this pressure to keep it, if possible, in a contracted state1.” The same objection applies to this as to the recommendation of Denman. The contrac- tions of the uterus are unnaturally prolonged, and unnatural relaxation follows as a matter of course. The writer, impressed by the high character of Drs. Clarke and Collins, followed this practice in about twenty cases, but the patients complained a good deal of the pres- sure ; and it is remarkable that the only severe cases of haemorrhage, after the expulsion of 1 Collins’ Practical Treatise on Midwifery, p. 21.