73 ELEPHANTIASIS. accumulation of blood in the protruded con- junctiva, increase the eversion. The farther consideration of this form of eversion belongs rather to the article on purulent ophthalmia than to this on ectro- pium. Ectropium from tumours. When eversion of the eyelid is owing to a tumour, the nature and treatment of the tu- mour comes to be the principal consideration in the case. (T. Wharton Jones.) ECZEMA, a non-contagious vesicular erup- tion. The vesicles are small and crowded to- gether, and their bases are but little inflamed. It is usually the effect of derangement in the digestive organs, or of local irritation to the skin. The treatment consists in attention to the state of the general health, avoiding every cause of irritation, the use of simple poultices, and washing the part with thin warm gruel, giving also some mineral acid with cinchona or sarsaparilla. EILOIDES, (from aXw, to coil.) A name suggested by Dr. Warren for a rare affection of the skin, which appears to consist mainly in hypertrophy of the cutis : the word con- veys'a correct idea of a curious physical pecu- liarity of the diseased structure—its tendency to assume a coiled shape. We say appears, because neither in the case observed by this eminent surgeon, nor in the still more extra- ordinary one depicted in John Bell’s “ Princi- ples of Surgery',” (referred to by Dr.Warren as probably of the same description as his own,) were the anatomical characters of the diseased formation ascertained. Not only, therefore, is the nature of the malady un- established, but the question whether the coiled shape be an essential effect of that nature, or a mere accidental consequence of the relations and properties of the tissue engaged, is still open to inquiry. The subject of the sketch, (fig. 228,) re- duced from Dr. Warren’s drawing, was a young negress. The disease seems to have originated in the form (Fig. 228) of an elevation of the skin, “ like that resulting from a burn this increased in size without causing pain or be- coming the seat of change ot colour, heat, or ulceration. When first observed by Dr. War- ren, the patient was about fifteen years old : the diseased mass then hung from the side of the neck by a narrow base, and looked “ like a triple coil of inflated intestine, each roll being four inches long.” The patient s health was not notably deranged. Dr. Warren re- moved the tumour, and with it a certain width of sound skin all round. The edges of the wound were in great measure capable of being brought together at once ; the re- ’ Vol. iii. pt. i. p. 32. The tumour observed by Bell, was, according to this author, the result of “ mere increased nutrition, the skin being unchanged in form or texture.” This opinion was, however, founded on external examination solely. Fig. 228. mainder closed by granulation, the surface being frequently acted upon with caustics : in four weeks the wound was perfectly healed and smooth. The disease, however, returned; and eighteen months after the first operation, the mass, attached by a broader base than be- fore, had re-attained its former dimensions. Dr. Warren having refused to operate, another practitioner removed the growth : soon after it re-appeared, and grew' rapidly; the patient’s health failed, and she died dropsical. The liver is stated to have been diseased, and the lymphatic glands enlarged ; the cellular tissue and serous cavities to have contained water. ,/. C. Warren, Surgical Observations on Tumours, with Cases and Operations. Boston, U. S. and Loud. 1839. ( Walter Hayle Walshe.) ELATERIUM, an extract procured from a species of momordica, the activity of w'hich depends on the quantity of a principle called elatin, which it contains. It is a powerful hydragogue cathartic in doses from a sixth of a grain to two grains, and is much used in cases of dropsy ; but its employment is con- tra-indicated where the exhaustion which fol- lows its operation is likely to prove injurious. ELECTUARY. A combination of dif- ferent ingredients mixed together into the consistence of honey. ELEPHANTIASIS, (from i\e<pac, an elephant) ; a disease so named because the legs of persons attacked by it become large, rough, and scaly, like those of an elephant. This was the leprosy of the Arabians. It is placed by Cullen in the class Cachexise, and order Impetigines.