BONE, DISEASES OF. 51)0 vessels in delicate cellular tissue. This mem- brane sends off numerous prolongations form- ing cells, which contain a soft reddish fatty matter, the medulla ; or rather support minute vesicles containing it, as described by Havers. This membrane also exerts considerable influ- ence in maintaining the vitality of bone ; for if it be extensively injured, the bone perishes. Bone is organized by a supply of arteries, veins, nerves, and lymphatics. Arteries enter bone, after ramifying in the periosteum, through minute holes in the surface. One or two large vessels also pass through distinct foramina, and ramify on the medullary mem- brane. Both series freely anastomose, and keep up a tolerably active circulation. The medullary arteries have accompanying veins ; other veins also pass out of the bone through distinct foramina, and empty themselves into the veins of the surrounding soft parts. They are said to be furnished with valves, and to have but one coat, the internal. Bones are insensible when healthy ; under disease, however, they become very sensitive. This would be sufficient to prove that they are supplied by nerves, even if Mr. Swan had not demonstrated the fact. The existence of lymphatics is inferred from the processes of ulceration and absorption which go on in bone. The bones, then, are organized structures, and, as such, are subject to the same laws as the softer tissues, not only in a state of health, but also when under the influence of disease. Their organization, however, though the same in kind, differs materially in degree, and from the large proportion of earthy and saline mat- ter contained in them, they may be said to hold an intermediate place between organic and inorganic bodies. We find the bones of children far more liable to acute diseases, than those of adults, and this results from the larger quantity of organized matter the former con- tain. A wound of the soft parts is healed in a few days, while it requires weeks and months to effect the perfect reparation of a fracture. Here again our argument holds good, reunion of fractures occurring most rapidly in the young. The same reasoning also applies to the diseases of the different parts of a bone ; for the denser the texture, the less is its supply of blood, and the lower its organization : on this ground the outer or compact tissue of bone having less vital power is more prone to die from disease or injury, while the cancellous structure approaches the softer tissues more nearly in the nature of its diseases, as it does in the character of its organization. As the processes of assimilation and growth are much less actively carried on in bone than in the soft parts, so the progress of disease is much less speedy. The effects, however, are more permanent, and by no means so amenable to treatment, a long continuance in the use of remedies being neceSsary before evident be- nefit results. The sympathetic relations of bones also under disease, strictly accord with the low state of their vital endowments : for although they certainly occasionally partici- pate in some general disorders of the system, scurvy, mercurial cachexia, &c. still we fre- quently see cases of extensive osseous disease, the constitution of the patient being un- affected, or merely suffering from the effects of severe or long-continued pain. On the other hand, bones remain quite intact, while the rest of the system is agitated by acute diseases. This could not occur in the soft parts, the different organs being mutually de- pendent on each other, and the whole being intimately connected by nervous communica- tions. After taking these points into consideration, the following appears to be a natural arrange-- ment of the diseases of bones. I. Functional affections, or lesions of in- nervation. II. Abnormal changes, the result of defect or excess in the nutritive or assimilative powers. III. Simple and specific inflammation of bone, and its membranes, with the conse- quence of such inflammation. IV. Morbid growths, deposits, or forma- tions. V. Malignant diseases. I. Bones being merely passive agents, it may at first sight appear somewhat paradoxical to assert that they suffer from functional dis- order, independent of structural changes. It would appear, however, that their nervous sensibility may be so much exalted, as to render them incapable of affording support or resistance without pain, and this sometimes to so great a degree, as to render the least motion insupportable, there still being no trace of vascular hyperhaemia. I am convinced these observations will apply to the perios- teum. There can be few practised ausculta- tors who have not occasionally observed such an exquisite tenderness of the thoracic parietes of their patient, as to render the application of the stethoscope or the employment of percus- sion extremely painful. This will frequently arise from morbid sensibility in the sentient extremities of the cutaneous nerves, the result of spinal irritation, or uterine derangement. In such cases the slightest touch gives pain, but on continuing the pressure for a few seconds, pretty considerable force may be exerted without producing suffering, and there is often tenderness on pressing the spinous processes of corresponding vertebrae. I have, however, seen two cases which I am led to believe are examples of an extensive class, where this morbid irritability was not seated superficially, but in the periosteum covering the ribs and cartilages (perichondrium). Both were young men who had fallen into phthisis after syphilis, and the free use of mercury. Great pain was caused by percus- sion, but there was no spinal tenderness ; the integuments might be pinched up between the fingers without causing pain, nor did it result