701' CATARACT. after the separation of the ligature. I ex- amined the body myself. The iliac artery, though not wounded, had been tied securely enough, but the vessels of the cord, the source of the haemorrhage, had been neglected. When the cord is fully exposed, a tenaculum or a needle and ligature may be passed through it; it may be then divided. By lifting up the cord on the tenaculum, the spermatic artery will be seen bleeding ; it should be drawn forwards and secured with a fine ligature. If the cord be then turned upwards towards the abdomen, the artery of the vas deferens may be secured in the same way. The latter vessel is sometimes not tied at all, and this is a neglect which the surgeon will now and then have reason to regret, as it furnishes a most teazing and continued bleed- ing. Haemorrhage is, in fact, more frequent from the deferential, than from the spermatic artery. I recommend the cord to be divided before the diseased tumour is removed, as I think there can be no doubt as to the impro- priety of dissecting around the testis before this step is completed, as it obviously prolongs the time of the operation, and adds considera- bly to the sufferings of the patient. On the other hand, when the cord is first divided, the testis is easily drawn forth from the scrotum, by means of the cord itself, and the adhesions that may exist are cut or broken down with greater facility and rapidity, than by any other mode. If the tumour be a small one, it may be rolled out, and as it were unkernelled from its scrotal envelopes ; but on the other hand, if it be of considerable size, it will be neces- sary to adopt some precautions to avoid wounding the urethra; the corpora cavernosa, and the testis of the opposite side. The bleeding too may be very troublesome in consequence of enlargement of the scrotal vessels. J. L. Petit mentions an instance in which the dressings had to be removed no less than three times to arrest a haemorrhage, which was at last discovered to proceed from the artery which passes through the septum of the scrotum. Indeed there is much more risk of bleeding after castration from the vessels of the scrotum than from those of the cord. Bichat before dividing the spermatic cord, directs the vas deferens, which may be dis- tinguished from the blood-vessel by its hard- ness, to be laid hold of, the rest of the cord is then cut, and the arteries secured, before the vas deferens is cut. Roux has attained the same object by making small successive cuts, tying each vessel as soon as it furnished blood until the section was completed. Some of the French writers have of late supposed that the danger of exciting inflammation along tlm cord, and of tetanus from the application of a ligature on the cord en masse was more imaginary than real. I am by no means of this opinion ; on the contrary, 1 cannot too strongly reprehend the barbarous practice of surgeons of former times of tying the whole of the cord to secure its vessels, a practice which is not only horribly painful, but some- times dangerous. Mr. Chandler, in com- pliance with the custom, removed in 1807, the testis of a man in St. Thomas’s Hospital, and tied the whole cord in a single ligature, the man at the time complaining dreadfully. The ligature came away in eight days, tetanus set in on the following day, and terminated fatally in forty-eight hours. The vessels of the scrotum are next to be secured, and when all the bleeding is arrested, the skin should be brought together by two points of suture at least, so as to prevent its edges from turning inwards. The confronta- tion of the edges of the wound would not here be sufficient to prevent this occurrence, on account of the great extensibility and re- tractility of the tissues themselves. The patient is then to be carried to bed in a horizontal pos- ture, without any dressings being made to the wound ; and when all apprehension of bleed- ing has ceased, then and not till then, should lint and adhesive plaster be applied, and the T bandage be secured. The ligatures of the cord are to be brought out together at the upper angle of the wound, where they may be protected by a small piece of linen. He must be kept cool, being covered only by a sheet to prevent relaxation of the scrotum ; and in summer, cold water and spirits of wine should be applied. The sutures should he removed on the eighth day, the wound heals generally in three weeks. After the patient is removed to bed he must be carefully watched, and any symptoms of inflammation, as indicated by severe pains in the loins, or over the abdomen, should be at once com- bated by copious bleeding. Disease of the testicle requiring extirpa- tion, may be complicated with hernia. I once removed a diseased testis under such circumstances. I first returned the hernia, and then dissected the cord from behind the sac. In another case, where there was an omental hernia adhering, I secured the arte- ries of the cord separately in small ligatures, and the patient had no bad symptoms. Sir C. Bell mentions an instance, where the dis- eased gland acted as a truss, preventing the descent of the intestine. After the removal of the tumour, the patient had a fit of coughing, followed by the protrusion of the bowels. For Bibliography, see Testicle, Diseases of. (Ast/ey Cooper.') CATAPLASM. See Poultice. CATARACT. Cataracta has been derived from the Greek Karapdaoio, to disturb, de- stroy, or abolish. It seems to have been first used by the Arabians. The earlier Latins called this disease suffusio oculi, gutta obsenra, gut/a opaca, hypochyma, Cataracta; Caiaracte, Fr. ; Graucr Staar, Ger. ; Cataract, Eng.