99 EMPHYSEMA. Similar simple means will suffice in cases of partial artificial emphysema. But where the effusion of air is produced by an injury of the lungs or trachea, our mea- sures must be of a more active kind. From the description given of the manner in which emphysema is induced in these cases, and of the influence exercised by the character of the external wound, when such exists, on the confinement of the air in the cellular mem- brane, it follows that our practice roust be directed to prevent the further accumulation of air, and to facilitate the escape of that already effused. The mode of fulfilling the first of these indications will vary with the situation and exact nature of the injury ; but, generally speaking, consists in converting oblique and sinuous wounds into straight and wide ones by incision, thereby securing a free passage outwards for the air discharged from the lung, and preventing its diffusion through the cellular membrane. The true object of, and benefit gained by, cutting down on the seat of the injury in cases of emphysema following fracture of the ribs, is clearly put by J. Bell ; and his observations are applicable, mutatis mutandis, in cases of narrow penetrating wounds. “ When the crackling tumour be- gins to form over a fractured rib, small punc- tures should be made with the point of a lancet, as in bleeding ; and if the point be struck deep enough, the air will rush out audibly. But, as (supposing the lung is not adherent to the inside of the chest) this air was in the thorax before it came into the cel- lular substance, it is plain that the thorax is still full, and that the lung of that side is already collapsed and useless, and must con- tinue so. The purpose, therefore, of making these scarifications, and especially of making them so near the fractured part, is not to re- lieve the lungs, but merely to prevent the air spreading more widely beneath the skin If the case be one of penetrating wound, instead of making a puncture or punctures, we enlarge the wound. By either of these trifling opera- tions, the further effusion of air into the cel- lular membrane is, in favourable cases, pre- vented : the collapsed lung inflames in the vicinity of the injury ; no more air escapes into the pleura ; that already accumulated is gradually absorbed ; as the outer wound closes, the lung expands; and all returns to the nor- mal state. But if, in spite of this treatment, air conti- nue to be abundantly effused into the cellular membrane, we must fulfil the second indica- tion by scarifying the integuments freely, especially about the thorax. These scarifica- tions should be made about an inch long, and the escape of the confined air through them promoted by gentle pressure of the surround- ing parts. Their number must be regulated by the intensity of the symptoms, and the freedom with which the air is removed : their extent, if they be made of the size just recom- mended, need excite no apprehension ; even extensive incisions are reduced comparatively to mere scratches, when the tumefaction dis- appears. The application of cupping-glasses to the incisions will aid in effecting a rapid removal of the air; a fact of which Larrey has furnished a good illustration. In the case referred to, the emphysema arose from a penetrating lance-wound, with lesion of the lung. The lance had entered obliquely under the lower angle of the scapula; and though the external and internal orifices of the wound in the wall of the thorax were not parallel, the surgeon, who first saw the case, had closed it with adhesive plaster: most extensive in- flation of the entire body followed. Larrey immediately removed the dressings, and with a bistoury made the openings in the skin and costal pleura parallel; cupping-glasses were then applied over the wound, and quickly filled with air and blood ; after which the lips of the wound were brought together, and kept so with a suitable bandage. Cupping-glasses and scarificators were applied to various parts of the body, and in other places incisions prac- tised. The patient recovered. With respect to the situation in which the scarifications should be made, the following remark of J. Bell is worth attention : “ If the air should have spread to very remote parts of the body, as to the scrotum and down the thighs, it will be easier to make small punctures in those parts, to let out the air directly', than to press it along the whole body, till it is brought up to the punctures made on the chest, over the wound- ed part b” The relief afforded by free scarification is, in some instances, most decided, and scarcely inferior to that procured by tracheotomy in cases of obstruction of the air-passages: the respiration becomes comparatively easy, the patient is enabled to resume the recumbent posture, and all the accompanying symptoms are proportionably' relieved ; of this, William Hunter’s case, among many others, furnishes convincing proof. Nevertheless, the utility of scarification has its limits; and it is pro- bable that, if the air have spread to internal organs, little permanent advantage is to be expected from its employment. Dupuytren, in describing a case of this kind, states that he scarified more from deference to surgical precept, than from any hope of benefitting his patient; and the general impression derived from his Lecture on the subject is, that he was decidedly averse to the practice, when the internal organs had become affected. It may, notwithstanding, be argued, that as the opera- tion is a very slight one, and as the more serious the internal disorders, the more in- juriously will the external collection of air act on the chances of recovery, the patient should at least be allowed the temporary relief scarification is, even under the most On Wounds, p. 278. 1 Loc. cit.