(556 CANCER, TREATMENT OF. of scirrhus are both observed in the mamma. The former is most common in subjects of advanced age ; its progress is usually slow. M. Cruveilhier relates a case showing the extreme degree to which the atrophy may advance; here the skin, cellular tissue, mamma, and a stratum of the pectoralis were converted into a stony mass only half an inch thick. Cancer is very commonly confined to one breast, the left being somewhat the more fre- quent sufferer ; in cases where both organs are affected, the disease attacks one consecutively to the other ; we do not recollect to have seen or read of an instance of the disease commencing in both simultaneously. Some- times the two breasts are connected by in- durated absorbents, or a chain of small cuta- neous scirrhi. The question of the causes of mammary cancer merges in that of the etiology of the disease in general. It is said to be more frequent in women who have not borne chil- dren, whether married or single, than in mothers, and its evolution connected w'ith the disappearance of the catamenia : the for- mer proposition requires stronger proof than has yet been given, before it becomes entitled to general confidence ; of the latter we have already spoken. Cancer of this organ is almost peculiar to the female sex; occasionally, however, it occurs in males, and appears in them to follow the same course as in women. It originates either in the nipple or its immediate vicinity. Mr. Travers relates the case of a w'aggoner, aged 58, in whom the disease, first perceived as a lump the size of a marble in the left breast, acquired in the course of three years the dimensions of a pullet’s egg, and proved fatal ("there was similar deposi- tion in the lungs) in the course of forty months. Cruveilhier refers to a mammary tumour successfully removed from the breast of a carter aged 70. We have no statistical documents to de- cide with precision the period of greatest frequency of the disease or the influence of age on its production. Although Mr. Carmichael has seen scirrhus of both mamma? in a child aged 12, and Everard Home relates an instance in which it commenced at the age of 15, its occurrence before thirty is ex- tremely uncommon ; persons of the most advanced age are not exempt from the chance of its development. Sir A. Cooper has seen it in an individual aged 86, and Cru- veilhicr maintains that such facts are of al- most too frequent occurrence to be looked on as exceptional. Mammary encephaloid of the most acute character has been witnessed at the age of 82. Scirrhus of the breast is, according to Sir A. Cooper, from two to three years in growth, and from six months to two years in destroying life after it has reached its acme. When occurring in advanced age its progress is ordinarily slower: and to the 12 remarkable exceptions sometimes met with we have already' adverted. Mr. Travers aud others affirm that the advance of the disease is retarded by utero-gestation. Velpeau es- timates the mean duration of encephaloid of this organ at from six to twelve months. Although no single character suffices to distinguish a scirrhous tumour from certain other diseases to which the mamma is liable, yet a combination of the signs we have de- scribed will usually ensure tolerable certainty of diagnosis. If a hard, moveable, indolent tumour, of small size, insensible under imme- diate pressure, but becoming painful a short while after manipulation, has existed in the breast of a female, aged thirty or upwards, for a certain period—say from six months to a year—the probability is strongly' in favour of its being cancerous : this probability will amount to positive certainty, if either pre- viously to, or at the end of, this period, lancinating pains alternating with perfect freedom from suffering supervene, and the disease resist local antiphlogistic and discu- tient measures. The state of the constitu- tion will in general facilitate the diagnosis ; but too much stress may very easily' be laid on the absence of general disturbance. We have seen tumours, of which the truly scirrhous character was anatomically demon- strated, removed from women whose general health was excellent; and it has been remarked by a close observer, Bayle, that women some- times become apparently even healthier than before during the incipient stage of mammary cancer. The signs of encephaloid growth in the breast, if combined in any number, can rarely mislead. The diseases with which the two species of cancer are here most likely to be confounded, are local or general hyper- trophy or fibrous tumour in the case of scirrhus, and multilocular encysted forma- tions in that of encephaloid. The whole subject of the differential diagnosis of mam- mary affections will be found treated of in the article Mamma. The general principles we have laid down respecting the prognosis and treatment of cancer, the propriety of and period fittest for operating, are strictly applicable to the dis- ease in the breast. Enlargement of the axillary glands forms, according to Sir A. Cooper, Velpeau, and others, a positive contra-indication to the use of the knife: the fact of such enlargement diminishes seriously the chances of ultimate success, but general experience proves that what we have already said on this point applies to the mamma. The existence of retraction of the nipple diminishes still further the proba- ble utility of extirpation ; and the operation is inadmissible if there be active disease of the pleura or lungs. It is almost unnecessary to add, that the ramose variety is less fa- vourable than the tuberiform or glandular for operation. Sir A. Cooper thinks that scir- rhus does not return in one fourth of the cases of removal; Mr. Warren that one case