857 CYSTITIS. commonly caused by injuries arising from accident, or from surgical operations, by poi- soning by means of cantharides, by the me- tastasis of severe gonorrhoea, by the pressure of the head of the child in protracted labour, &c. Symptoms of cystitis occur secondarily in connexion with affections of parts more or less distant, as the kidneys, ureters, urethra, uterus, rectum, &c., and finally from the pre- sence of foreign bodies. This affection, in its acute state, is charac- terized by more or less exaggeration of the sensibility and contractility of the bladder; there is pain in the bladder, extending towards the urethra, the ureters, the rectum, which is greatly augmented by pressure ; and if the in- flammation occupies the muscular tunic exten- sively, its contractility is so impaired, that urine accumulates in the bladder, and causes intolerable anguish. The patient is tormented whether there be any water in the bladder or not to void it, and he wearies himself, and ag- gravates the symptoms with incessant efforts for that purpose. But a few drops of turbid, thick, and reddish urine are thus expelled, ac- companied with a sensation of scalding or burning along the urethra. The straining oc- casionally extends to the rectum, and small portions of faeces are voided, and the end of the gut itself is prolapsed. When the urine accumulates in the bladder, the feeling of tenesmus has no intermission, and a hard tu- mour is felt rising in the hypogastrium, which cannot be pressed without producing intense agony. The fever runs high, the pulse is full, frequent, and hard ; the tongue and fauces furred and dry ; and sometimes there is nausea and even vomiting. When these symptoms go on unchecked, the inflammation is propagated to the ureters, kidneys, and peritoneum ; and after an interval, which varies from two to six or eight days, accord- ing to the violence of the attack, hiccup finally comes on, the pulse becomes small and thready, the muscles are agitated with sub- sultus, clammy sweats break out, and the patient sinks into a comatose state and dies. When successfully combated, the symptoms gradually decline in severity, the fever is sub- dued, the pain diminishes in violence and frequency, the intervals of voiding the water are lengthened, the urine itself is less dis- coloured and mucose, and is secreted in greater quantity. Sometimes, however, the disease, though abated in some degree, continues under the form of a muco-purulent secretion from the mucous lining of the bladder, which secretion, after persisting for some time, may be ulti- mately cured. More rarely still, the irritation is kept up in some portion of the vesical walls, and matter is formed either in these walls, or in the cellular tissue which unites the bladder to the neighbouring organs. When this is the case, there will be generally slight rigors, with fever, a sense of weight and pain in the pelvis, and of difficulty in voiding the urine. If these symptoms yield, and the patient ex- periences great relief, after a quantity of pus has been suddenly voided with the water, the nature of the case is clear. Here, too, the recovery may be not only prompt, but com- plete. If, however, the matter becomes dif- fused in the cellular tissue of the pelvis, and points in the rectum, perineum, groin, or neighbourhood of the pelvis, the case is really serious, and the patient is but seldom fortunate enough to be able to bear up against the pain and exhaustion he has to undergo. Ulceration of the mucous lining of the bladder itself to any extent is extremely rare. It does, how- ever, occur now and then, under peculiar cir- cumstances, and occasions the utmost distress, especially when it becomes necessary to em- ploy instruments to evacuate the contents of the bladder. Cystitis, when carried to a high degree of intensity, may terminate in gangrene, not only of a portion of the bladder itself, but of such other parts as the inflammation may have ex- tended to. The author of this paper had once an opportunity of observing a case of gangrene of the bladder and ureters, with Sir A. Cooper. The invasion of the disease was extremely sudden, and its progress rapid. Several hours before the patient’s dissolution, all pain had ceased, but the gangrenous odour was very strong. The pulse continued to sink, the body was covered with a clammy offensive sweat, and the urine voided was in- supportably fetid ; the intellectual faculties remained unclouded to the last. From the preceding description, which em- braces the condition of the bladder, attacked extensively and simultaneously in the several structures of which it is composed, it will be easy to form an idea of the modifications w'hich the symptoms will undergo, when the inflamma- tion is limited to a particular region, or tissue of the viscus. When the peritoneal region is the seat of phlogosis, the pain on pressing the hypogastrium is extremely severe, and there is danger of its being propagated to the serous membrane ; but the vesical tenesmus, and con- stant straining are by no means so severe as when the neck or bafond of the bladder is the seat of the inflammation. In the latter case, the symptoms enumerated in the general de- scription are present, with pain, and a sense of swelling and tension in the perineum, reten- tion of urine, burning heat in the urethra, and frequent erections. The urine is hot and bloody, and the introduction of the catheter is extremely painful. The anus, too, is ex- tremely sensitive, and the faeces are retained from the fear of pain, and the difficulty of their excretion, owing to the tumefied state of the parts. If the inflammation occurs in the region of the ureters, pain is felt extending along their course to the kidneys, and it is said that the occlusion of these conduits, and the accumulation of the urine in them, may be the consequence. Sir B. Brodie observes correctly, that the ureters are more or less dilated, after inflammation of the bladder. Acute cystitis however may occur in each separate region of the bladder, without in- volving any but the mucous membrane. In