813 CONDYLOMA. Psoriasis Discreta.—This closely resembles the common psoriasis guttata, save that it is rather more dingy in hue, and more disposed to give rise to a coppery stain. It consists of small, separate deposits in the cutis. They approach in size to split pease, are occasion- ally confluent, are flat, and desquamate upon the surface. Lepra.—This has all the characters of the lepra venerea, so well described and so accu- rately figured by Bateman. It is unnecessary, at present, to describe it further. Desquamating Tubercle.—This is a rounder and more bulky deposit than forms the pso- riasis guttata. It feels like a flattened pea in the cutis, and forms an elevation on it. Its tint is more florid than that of psoriasis, and approximates to what painters call the “ In- dian red.” It desquamates upon the surface1 * * * *. The analog}7 between these four forms of eruption is evident from two circumstances : first, from their frequent co-existence, the same patient displaying two, or even all at the same time; secondly, from their succes- sion, one very commonly following another. All, too, are characterized by a tendency to desquamation, rather than to the formation of vesicles, pustules, or crusts ; and by depo- sition rather than by ulceration. A feature, this, of much significance, indicative of an affinity between the primary and secondary morbid actions ; and, what is more essential, and, perhaps, more certain, indicative also of a state of constitution not materially depraved. Treatment.—This is naturally divisible into that of the ulcerated condyloma, and that of the secondary symptoms. For the former, a course of mercury is generally necessary. I would not be under- stood to affirm, that such a course is always in- dispensable. The condylomata may certainly be cured without it. But, in the majority of cases, it is both the most successful and most speedy plan, and, in careful hands, no mischief can ensue from it. The principles which should regulate the exhibition of mercury will be considered at a future time. It is only necessary to observe, at present, that, prior to commencing it, the general health should be attended to. If the tongue is foul, or the bowels are not in order, aperients must be given ; indeed, at the onset, they may almost always be prescribed with benefit. Pyrexia, if it exists, should be re- moved by diaphoretics and salines. As soon as the secretions are improved, and the gene- ral functions set in order, a mild course of mercury may be commenced. The blue pill or the mercurial ointment are the preferable forms ; five grains of the former twice daily, or inunction of half a drachm of the latter, at night, are the usual dose. Mercury should never, in this nor in any other venereal disor- 1 This notice is not intended as a description of the eruptions it refers to—that will be found under the head of Syphilis. The present allusion to them is merely for the purpose of rendering the account of condyloma more complete. der, be continued for any length of time, with- out the combination of tonics. Of these, sar- saparilla, good diet, and a moderate allowance of the stimulus to which the patient is accus- tomed, appear to be, in general, the best. The local applications and management are simple. If the parts are inflamed, tepid bathing and bread poultices may be employed. When irritation is subdued, the black wash, on lint, or in bread poultices, is the best application to the sores ; and, when these are healed, the bichloride lotion or ointment may be had re- course to. The strictest cleanliness, frequent general or hip-baths, and appropriate injections, if urethral or vaginal discharges exist, are as re- quisite in this as in the other forms of condy- loma. It would forestal details more appropriate in another place, to discuss the treatment of the secondary eruptions. Suffice it to say, that they indicate and will yield to a judicious course of mercury. This requires to be backed by sarsaparilla, or by other tonics, as circumstances may demand; and the iodide of potassium is an useful adjuvant. The white ulceration of the tonsils and the palate should be touched twice or thrice weekly with the nitrate of silver, in substance, or in strong solution, and a gargle of the bichloride of mercury may be very usefully added. The formula for the latter is : one grain of the bichloride to twelve ounces of water. The reddish or white patches on the tongue may be treated in the same manner as the ulceration of the throat. Caustic is even more necessary forthem than forthelatter. The mild course of mercury usually agrees with both. But the swollen and fissured tongue, with yellowish or sloughy-looking ulcerations in it, rarely, if ever, supports the mercurial action. I have seen very bad effects, indeed, from that, and a state of tongue induced of a highly unpleasant and intractable description. The same affection is, undoubtedly, in some in- stances the product of mercury itself. Of this I have seen sufficient proof to carry convic- tion to my mind, and to make me shun that medicine in such cases. Light aperients, tonics, including pure air, &c., sarsaparilla, the iodide of potassium, are the remedies from w'hich most benefit will be derived. And these may be assisted by the use of caustic, or the lini- mentum aeruginis, the mel boracis, or such other stimulating substances as will suggest themselves to the mind of the practical sur- geon. An apology, perhaps, is due for this account of condyloma. It is, probably, short enough for many omissions, and long enough for many errors. Such as it is, I present it, with the hope that it may lead to a more complete in- vestigation of the subject, and may induce other surgeons to publish the results of their experience. If it leads to a careful study of the malady, and an accurate discri- mination of its various forms, it will have