208 FISTULA, INTESTINAL. according to circumstances from one to four inches. An assistant now supports this branch, whilst the surgeon introduces in the same manner the second branch into the other portion of bowel to the same depth. The two branches are now united, like those of forceps used in midwifery, care being taken that the button at the end of the male is re- ceived into the cavity of the female branch. The approximation of the blades is now effect- ed by means of the screw, to such a degree as to destroy the vitality of the included part. Every second day the pressure must be in- creased, lest from the shrinking of the in- cluded tissues, the circulation in these struc- tures should not have been perfectly arrested. During the time the enterotome is applied, it is necessary to employ a diluent diet, per- fect rest, emollient fomentations, and muci- laginous clysters frequently repeated. Slight pain, or moderate increase in the heat of the skin, or frequency of the pulse, need not ex- cite alarm; but if inflammatory symptoms of considerable intensity occur, attended with nausea, hiccough, and vomiting, local and general evacuations of blood, repeated accord- ing to circumstances, the most rigid diet, and the occasional use of sedatives are required '. According to Dupuytren, the employment of the enterotome does not usually give rise to pain, colic, vomiting, intestinal obstruction, or constitutional irritation. On the contrary, he states that such symptoms only occurred in a small proportion of the cases in which he operated, and that the inflammation was limit- ed to the parts embraced by the instrument. When first applied, the enterotome is fixed ; after a few days it becomes loose, its mobility increasing until it drops out about the eighth day, carrying with it the included portion of the intestinal coats, in a dry state, resembling parchment. By this loss of substance, the obstruction produced by the projecting valve and intervening partition is removed, and a direct communication between the upper and lower portions of intestine is established. The fecal matters frequently begin to resume their natural course even before the instrument is detached. For a few days the evacuations are generally liquid, frequent, and attended with griping ; by degrees they become more solid and less frequent, and at length assume a natural character. After the separation of the enterotome, the external wound, for some time, rapidly diminishes in size ; but it is generally slow in completely cicatrizing, sometimes requiring the assiduous efforts of the surgeon to be exerted during many weeks or months before its closure is completed 1 2. An opportunity was afforded to professor Lallemand of examining the body of a patient seven years after he had been successfully treated by the enterotome for abnormal anus following gangrenous hernia. “ On examining the body after death, there was found in the 1 See Diet. <le Cliir. et de Med. Pr. p. 157. 2 Diet, de Med et de Cliir. Prat. t. iii. p. 156. left inguinal region an oblique fistulous open- ing of the size of a crown leading into the canal. Around this, to the extent of five or six lines, was a thin shining cicatrix, in which wrinkled folds of the skin terminated. A portion of ileum, not differing from the usual appear- ance of the intestine, was adherent to trie left inguinal region by two slender columns. One of these, four lines long by two in width, con- tained the canal of communication between the fistula and the cavity of the intestine. This canal passed through the inguinal ring which was short and nearly direct. The other, was an ordinary slender fibrous adhesion.” “ As soon as the fistulous communication had passed the ring it began to enlarge and assume the funnel shape, and was quickly lost in the cavity of the intestine. When the latter, which presented the usual circular figure, was laid open, a slight prominence marked the situation which had been occupied by the ridge ; the mucous membrane was just the same here as elsewhere. In short, the intes- tine, which had not only been retracted within the abdomen, but carried to some distance, so as to be quite free from the inguinal canal, except at the adhesion already mentioned, had recovered its natural curve within the belly, and presented very little appearance, either on the exterior or interior, of the loss of sub- stance which it had undergone, and of the operation, by which the natural course of its contents had been restored M. Dupuytren2 gives the following state- ment of the result of forty-one operations, by means of the enterotome, performed by him- self, M. Lallemand, and others. The abnor- mal opening in three fourths of these cases resulted from gangrenous hernia ; in the re- maining fourth from wounds of the abdomen with more or less loss of substance of the in- testine. Three of the patients died, one from feculent effusion, a second from “indigestion,” and a third from acute peritonitis. Of the remaing thirty-eight, the greater part experi- enced no unfavourable symptoms ; colic, nau- sea, and vomiting, however, occurred in some, but yielded to aerated draughts, leeches ap- plied near the anus, fomentations, and absti- nence. Recovery was not equally perfect in all: nine had fistula remaining, which required the use of a compressing bandage, to prevent the escape of air, mucus, bile, and even feculent matters. The remaining twenty- nine were permanently and completely cured in a period varying from two to six months. From the observations of M. Jobert3, it appears that the operation with the entero- tome has not proved so mild in its effects when practised by other surgeons as in the cases treated by M. Dupuytren. He found 1 Thi9 case is quoted at length by Mr. Lawrence in his Treatise on Ruptures, fifth editiou, p. 408, from the Repert. General d’Anat. et de Phys. Path, t. vii. p. 133. 2 Diet, de Med. et de Cliir. Pr. t. iii. p. 161. 3 Traite des Mai. Chir. du Canal Intestinal, tom. ii., p. 125.