272 ANEURISM. that he would perish from loss of blood before the opening of the artery could be found, and even though the vessels were secured they were still apprehensive that the obstruction to the circulation would be followed by mor- tification of the limb. Indeed so convinced wrere they of the desperateness of his condi- tion, that they had the sacrament adminis- tered to him before the operation was at- tempted. After the ligature was placed and tied firmly, the additional precaution was taken of keeping constant pressure on the vessel by a succession of assistants for twenty- four hours. The patient had quite recovered in six weeks, and subsequently went through several campaigns. Severinus was equally successful in another case in which he ap- plied a ligature to the femoral artery, for a wound of that vessel caused by a musket- ball : he tied it both above and below the wound. In spite of these examples, however, and of the success attending the application of the ligature on the brachial artery, the same apprehensions as regards the mortification of the limb continued to prevail. The powers of the collateral branches to furnish a suffi- cient circulation continued to be overlooked, until Winslow and Haller produced their illus- trations of the numberless anastomoses where- by the circulation may be continued between the upper and lower parts of the limb, after the obstruction of the main trunk. In popli- teal aneurism, Haller asserted that if the course of the blood were intercepted in the popliteal artery between the origins of the upper and lower articular arteries, these arte- ries through their communications would be sufficient to carry on the circulation in the leg. Heister w'as so convinced of the sound- ness of the conclusion drawn from the fore- going facts and observations, that he proposed in 1744, the ligature for aneurism of the popli- teal artery, to be applied in the same manner, as previously to that time it had been em- ployed on the brachial artery. In Haller’s Disp. Chir. Guenaud, adopting the same view's, loudly condemns the practice of amputating for popliteal aneurism. Before this period, however, it w'ould appear from a letter written by Testa to Cotugno, that Keysler, a German surgeon, had in many cases employed the liga- ture. Lochman, a French surgeon, operated in this way successfully at Florence in 1752, as did Birchall at the Manchester infirmary in 1757 ; and from this period it began to be practised in Italy under the auspices of Guat- tani and Magotti. The latter placed a liga- ture both above and below the tumour, and emptied it of its contents. It was in this W'ay that the operation was subsequently prac- tised in France by Chopart in 1781, unsuc- cessfully, and afterwards in two cases by Pel- letan successfully. It would appear, from the works of Pott, Wilmer, Kirkland, and others, that this method had been employed on many occasions in this country prior to this period. From the severity of the operation itself, however, and the unsatisfactory nature of its results, it had gradually fallen into disuse. The precepts and practice of Hunter, open- ed a new era in this department of surgery ; and the timidity which had so generally pre- vailed amongst the surgeons of the preceding age, was now' completely dispelled. As the share w'hich Hunter had in this memorable change has been claimed for others, a few observations on this point may not be unac- ceptable. It has been affirmed by some French wrri- ters, that the merit attaching to the introduc- tion of the Hunterian operation, belongs to Anel. Lisfranc, w'ho, in his Treatise on the Different Methods of producing the Oblitera- tion of Arteries, has taken some pains to clear up this point, shows that the first known me- thod for the treatment of aneurism has been entirely overlooked by every writer on the history of this affection. This method be- longs to Rufus, and is thus described by JE- tius : Si vas unde emanat sanguis profundum fueiit . . . , ubi situm ejus et magnitudinem di/i- genter perspexeris, noverisque numquid vena sit an artcria, vas immissa volsella extende- MUS, ET moderate circdmflectemds. Ac ubi ne sic quidern cessaverit vinculo constringe- mus; nonnunquam et post vinculi nexum oblique vas incidere cogimur.' This quotation proves, that not only w'as the idea of employing the simple ligature then known, but even that the torsion of the vessel which has been of late years described as an invention of modern surgery, wras then recommended. Astius himself describes another method, which he put in practice for an aneurism at the bend of the arm. He discovered the ar- tery at four fingers’ breadth below the axilla, and applying two ligatures, he then cut the vessel across between them ; he next emptied the aneurismal sdc completely, and tied the artery at this point sicut priorem, an expres- sion which, according to the interpretation of M. Dezeimiris, seems to say that he also ap- plied two ligatures upon the artery below the tumour. Paul of Egina’s method of treating sponta- neous aneurism, si ex arteria dilatata tumor ob- venerit, wras to expose the vessel by a longitu- dinal incision, and by means of a needle, pass a double ligature under it, previously plunging a bistouri into the tumour. Though the text is somewhat obscure, it may very naturally be supposed that the ligatures w'ere placed above and below the tumour, and that the sac was opened between them. Here then, observes Lisfranc, is a proof that the method chiefly followed during the 18th century, may be traced back to Paul of Egina. Avicenna mentions the simple ligature for the wounds of arteries, judiciously recom- mending that it should be applied between the wound and the heart; and adds, that if the blood should issue from the inferior por- tion of the wounded vessel, that a second ligature should be applied. 1 TEtius, lib. xiv. cap. 52.