8.16 CORNEA. At the place of the crack there was a slight tendency to project. There was no appear- ance of contusion, and no injection. So little inconvenience did this state produce, that the man could not be prevailed upon to intermit his work. The consequence was, that, in a day or two after, the projection of the cornea increased, the aqueous humour drained away, the iris fell forward against the cornea, and inflammation and pain set in. The immediate effect, in most cases of penetrating wounds of the cornea, is escape of the aqueous humour, and, sometimes, espe- cially if the wound is of any extent, and situ- ated near the edge of the cornea, protrusion of the iris. It is this latter circumstance, when it occurs, which constitutes the principal difficulty of the case, for the mere wound of the cornea may heal, and the aqueous humour he renewed in from thirty-six to forty-eight hours. Even when the accident is quite re- cent, it is seldom we succeed in returning the iris to its natural position—never, if but a few hours have elapsed. If the iris be but slightly engaged in the wound of the cornea, and if this be towards the circumference, the first thing to be tried is rubbing the upper eyelid over the cornea, and then suddenly opening the eye to a bright light. The tendency of the pupil to contract being thus excited, disengagement of the iris from the wound of the cornea is expected to follow. This proceeding may be repeated along with attempts to push the iris back into its place with a blunt probe. But, of course, all of this would be useless if the iris were at all strangulated in the wound of the cornea.. If the wound of the cornea be nearer the centre, and if it be the pupillary portion of the iris which is prolapsed, dilatation of the pupil by belladonna, prejudicial in the former case, may be tried in this, along with rubbing the eyelid over the cornea. In regard to exciting the pupil to contract or dilate, it is to be remarked, that though the contractile power of the iris appears very considerable wdiile supported by the aqueous humour, it becomes almost null when this is removed, in consequence of the resistance of its own weight, and the pressure of adjacent parts, to say nothing of its engagement in a wound of the cornea. If protrusion of the iris be evidently kept up by the aqueous humour pressing it forward, this should be evacuated by puncture. If the attempts to return the iris have failed, and if the case be still recent, the protruding iris should be snipt off with scissors, espe- cially if it be the pupillary edge, and then friction employed as before. By this proceed- ing we may preserve the cornea entire, though with a pupil large and irregular. By leaving the protruded iris, synechia anterior and con- tracted pupil with opacity of the cornea to a greater or less extent, if not partial staphy- loma, inevitably result. If some time has already elapsed since the accident, the case falls into the category of ophthalmia, attended by penetrating ulceration of the cornea and protrusion of the iris. When a wound of the cornea is healing, its edges are gray; but if, by an}' accident, union by the first intention should not take place, “ the edges of the wound swell, and are sepa- rated from one another to a considerable dis- tance by a tough yellow matter, resembling albumen, which sometimes hangs down from the wound in the form of flakes. As the healing process goes on, the quantity of this matter diminishes, and the edges gradually approach each other, until a firm and complete cicatrix is formed It sometimes happens that in oid and en- feebled persons, the incision made in the cor- nea for extracting a cataract does not unite, for want of sufficient reaction in the part: the consequence of this may be, that the aqueous humour drains away, the cornea becomes flaccid, dim, and gradually opaque, and even- tually destruction of the eye follows. Some- times the w'ound of the cornea does heal, after a considerable interval, and the eye is saved. In such cases nourishing diet and tonics should be given, and the eye itself touched with some stimulant, such as the nitrate of silver2. A penetrating wound of the cornea, close to its margin, sometimes closes by the con- junctiva alone healing over it while the pro- per substance of the cornea remains ununited. The consequence is, the aqueous humour ele- vates the conjunctiva in the form of a vesicle. This state of parts is called fistula cornea?, and must be distinguished from hernia cornetE and partial staphyloma. After snipping off the elevated conjunctiva, the orifice in the proper substance of the cornea, leading into the anterior chamber, is to be touched freely with the lunar caustic pencil3. DISEASES OF THE CORNEA. Inflammation of the Cornea, Corneitis or Keratitis. As around the margin of the cornea, the blood-vessels of the conjunctiva, sclerotica, and iris communicate, and as from this vascular confluence the cornea receives its supply, it is not surprising that it should become involved in the inflammatory diseases of those parts, nor, on the other hand, that they should par- ticipate in inflammations primarily affecting it. But as the conjunctival layer of the cornea receives its vascular ramifications more parti- cularly from the blood-vessels of the sclero- tic conjunctiva, and the proper substance of the cornea, and membrane of Descemet, from the anterior ciliary arteries, which equally supply the sclerotica and iris, so each of the three component structures of the cornea may be separately affected by extension of inflam- mation from that part with which it has the 1 Wardrop, Morbid Anatomy of the Human Eye, vol. i. p. 65, 2nd ed. s Mackenzie, Treatise, p. 695; and Raleigh, Trans, of Med. and Rhys. Soc. of Calcutta, vol. iv. p. 650. * Mackenzie, Treatise, p. 335.