ANEURISM. 205 the arterial system. Thus, besides the true and the false, there are the varicose and anas- tomosing aneurisms, the aneurismal varix, and the arterial varix. The true or encysted aneurism, properly so called, (dneurisma verum sacciforme,) is a tumour formed by the dilatation of a portion of an arterial tube, and the aneurismal sac may be formed by the dilatation of the whole of the tunics of an artery, the two external tunics may give way, or one or both of the in- ternal tunics may be ruptured, the cellular coat of the vessel alone forming the parietes of the tumour, and preventing the effusion of blood amongst the surrounding parts. Some pathologists, and particularly Scarpa, conceived that an aneurism was always formed in consequence of a rupture of some of the tunics of an artery; but it has been clearly proved by numerous dissections, that an aneurismal swelling may be formed without the rupture of any of the coats, and merely by the dilatation of all the tunics of the vessel. When an aneurism is of recent formation, and of a small size, the dissection of the tumour often exhibits a simple dilatation of all the arterial coats; but when the aneurism is large, the internal and fibrous coats of the vessel, or the fibrous coat alone, are lacerated. The different modes by which an aneurism is formed, or the different conditions of the coats of the artery in an aneurismal sac, are illustrated in the annexed diagrams. Fig. 1, represents an aneurism wherein each of the three coats of an artery (a, b, c,) are equally dis- tended, and form the parietes of the sac (d ). In fig. 2, the parietes of the aneurismal sac (d) consist of the. internal coat (e), and external coat (a), the middle coat (A) having been ruptured. In the third, the aneurismal sac (d ) is formed merely by the external or cellular coat (a); the two internal tunics having been ruptured. In the fourth, the sac (d) is formed by a distention or hernia of the internal tunic (c), the e.rtemal coat (a), and middle coat (A), having been both ruptured. An aneurism, when situated near the sur- face of the body, or an external aneurism, makes its appearance at first as a small cir- cumscribed pulsative and colourless tumour, of a globular form, compressible and elastic, attended neither with pain nor inconvenience, disappearing on the application of pressure, and reappearing on its removal. The pulsa- tions of the tumour are synchronous with those of the heart, and if the vessel be com- pressed between the tumour and the heart, the pulsation of the aneurism ceases, but is again renewed when the pressure is removed. On the other hand, if pressure be applied on the artery on the capillary or distal side of the aneurism, the force of the pulsations of the tumour is increased. As the tumour enlarges, the pulsations be- come less and less distinct, and ultimately but a slight thrill is communicated to the hand; and when the tumour has existed for a very long time, and has attained a great size, all pulsation may disappear. Neither can the swelling be now made to subside on the appli- cation of pressure, a change which is caused by the coagulation of the blood and the effusion of fibrine within the aneurismal sac. As the disease advances, the skin covering the sac, stretched and attenuated, turns livid, inflames, and sometimes presents gangrenous spots ; the subcutaneous veins become varicose, and if the aneurism be situated in one of the limbs, the whole member becomes cold and cede- matous. In this advanced state, the parietes of the sac, becoming so attenuated as to be unable to resist the impetus of the blood, soon give way, and an opening is formed in the gangre- nous portion of the skin, which involves the cyst of the aneurism. Should the aneurism extend into a mucous canal, the termination will take place in the same way as on the cutaneous surface ; and if it approaches a serous cavity, the sac will either crack or ulcerate. However, in the greater number of instances, an aneurismal tumour advances towards, and ultimately appears at the cuta- neous surface. When a rupture of the tumour has taken place, the coagulated blood contained within it prevents the profuse outpouring of the fluid blood, so that the stream is not con- tinuous, but is discharged at intervals, each jet becoming more profuse and alarming; a fatal haemorrhage does not immediately take place unless the opening in the sac be large, and the clots of blood are quickly dis- placed, so that there will be no obstruction to the escape of the fluid blood. Sometimes the blood from the aneurismal sac, in place of bursting through the skin, or into a mucous canal, or serous cavity, escapes amongst the surrounding soft parts, thus constituting the diffused or false aneurism. When the parietes of an aneurismal sac have thus given way, sometimes the tumefied parts become of a livid colour, the skin sloughs, and blood, partly fluid, and partly