CALCULUS. 574 the articles which experience has shown to possess a kind of specific influence in allaying irritability of the urinary organs, particularly the uva ursi, pareira brava, alehemilla arvensis. An extract of the uva ursi, combined with ex- tract of hyoscyamus or opium, according to circumstances, has been strongly recommended on high authority. The ferrum sesquichlori- dum, of the last London Pharmacopoeia, or its tincture, is an excellent chalybeate ; and when the phosphatic diathesis can be obviously re- ferred to affections of the urethra, prostate, or bladder, the ferrum ammonio-chloridum, or its tincture, may be substituted, and will be found an invaluable medicine. As a means of securing all the benefit to be derived from medicinal treatment of any kind, the patient should, as speedily as possible, escape from the atmosphere of a populous city, and the depressing influence of confinement in the midst of a town. Removal to the country has often of itself the happiest in- fluence in restoring vigour to the shattered frame. Gentle exercise should also be at- tempted at as early a period as is consistent with prudence. Among the many interesting discoveries due to the continual advances of modern che- mistry, is the fact, that by peculiar treatment many long series of organic elements may be converted one into another. The first step has even been made in forming some of these by the direct combination of their constituent or ultimate elements. Urea, for instance, the highly azotized and distinguishing proximate principle of the urine, has actually been formed synthetically by the celebrated German che- mist Woehler. If we set out from this peculiar organic principle, the ultimate composition of which appears to be 46,65 nitrogen, 19,97 carbon, 6,65 hydrogen, and 26,65 oxygen, (N2 C2 H4 O2,) and suppose the proportions of nitrogen and hydrogen to be lessened, whilst those of carbon and oxygen are increased, we shall have lithic or uric acid produced (N4 C5 H4 O3). Again, if we suppose the nitrogen, carbon, and hydrogen, to remain as in lithic acid, but the quantity of oxygen to be diminished to the extent of one atom, we shall have the lithic or uric oxide (xanthic oxide Marcet, produced —(N4 C5 H4 O2). Farther, if the nitrogen and carbon fall short, whilst the hydrogen and oxygen increase in relative quantity, we have another element of morbid urine formed, namely, cystine, or cystic oxide, of Wollaston, (N2 C3 tl6 O4.) Another very remarkable quaternary compound, occasionally met with in morbid urine, is carbonate of ammonia, for the presence of which we should, without the lights afforded us by chemistry, be greatly at a loss to account. But when we know that the elementary composition of urea is identical with that of the cyanate of ammonia; that if one atom of this substance and one atom of water come to decompose each other, which readily happens, and that the product is ex- actly one atom of carbonate of ammonia, we have no difficulty whatever in explaining the occurrence in the urine of the volatile alkali combined with carbonic acid. Occasionally, again, two of the elements of urea part company, as it were, with the other two, and enter into certain binary combina- tions that are also now and then detected in the urine, either alone, or accidentally con- joined with bases which they have encountered in the fluid. Thus the nitrogen and carbon uniting and separating themselves from the hydrogen and oxygen, give rise to cyanogen or bicarburet of nitrogen ; and it is no less re- markable than indisputable that compounds of the cyanic acid, other than the cyanate of am- monia already mentioned, such as the ferro- cyanate of potash, and even hydrocyanic acid in a free state, are sometimes met with in the urine. It farther happens not uncommonly, especially in certain febrile states of the system, that the nitrogen and oxygen select each other peculiarly, leaving out of the question the carbon and hydrogen, and form nitric acid, which, acting on the lithic acid, has been held the source of the compounds that are described under the titles of the erythric and purpuric acids. Finally, if the nitrogen and hydrogen part company with the carbon and oxygen, and leave these last to unite very nearly in the proportions in which the former occurs in lithic acid, the latter in cystine, we have oxalic acid produced,—39,99 carbon, 53,33 oxygen,— an occasional and very formidable constituent of the urine in certain morbid states. Under other circumstances, the kidney seems to fall short of the acidifying property it pos- sesses as part of its distinguishing function, and then the radicals of the acids which the urine contains present themselves in an uncombined state. It is in this way, probably, that phos- phorus now and then appears in solution in the urine, so that the fluid is seen to be lumi- nous when emitted in the dark. A certain number only of these combina- tions interest us in connection with the subject of calculus, and these we shall now proceed to discuss in succession. Elaboration of Urine, containing the Lithic Oxide.—The existence of the calculus de- scribed by Dr. Marcet, under the name of the xanthic oxide calculus, was, in some sort, called in question by Berzelius ■, who insinuates that in all probability it was nothing more than uric acid modified by accidental admixture. The accuracy of our late distinguished coun- tryman, and his discrimination in separating from other calculi the one he described as consisting of xanthic oxide, have, however, been fully confirmed by some very recent re- searches of Liebig and Woehler2. It was known that Professor Langenbeck, of Goet- tingen, had extracted a stone of this substance, the chemical nature of which had been either investigated imperfectly, or else had not been made known by Stromeyer, who had also ex- 1 Chimie, par Esslinger, tom. vii. p. 427. 2 Poigendorff's Annalen. Bd. 41, 1(136.