BLOOD-LETTING. 491 When the approach of a paralytic attack is foreseen, or even the symptoms slightly com- menced, it is astonishing to what an extent blood-letting must sometimes be carried, in order to check the progress of the malady1. There are cases of plethora or congestion in the brain, producing a sudden loss of the intellectual powers, and convulsions, in which too much blood can scarcely be removed to save life; but in such cases the pulse is stronger, and acquires vigour whilst the blood is flowing from the vein. A general officer, of a full plethoric habit, and who had suffered occasionally from gout, had, in consequence of a slight pain in the great-toe, taken a brisk purgative, and whilst walking on the following day, which happened to be unusually cold, he felt a chill, suddenly became giddy, and fell down in the street, senseless and motionless, and his pulse, though strong, was little changed. I immediately opened a vein in the arm, and the blood flowed freely through a large orifice ; at first the pulse gradually acquired strength, and in- creased in frequency, but was not subdued until upwards of forty ounces of blood were abstracted, and then he immediately became sensible to things around him. In a few hours the vigour of the heart and arteries re- vived, accompanied by uneasy feelings in the head, when the same quantity of blood was taken away as on the former occasion. These depletions, along with an antiphlogistic regi- men, were the means of producing permanent relief. There are also cases of apoplexy, in which there is congestion of blood in the brain, aris- ing from diminished power of the heart to pro- pel the blood. If in such cases, instead of stimulants, blood-letting be employed, the powers of life are so reduced that death soon follows. When there is an organic change in the brain’s structure, and when the sudden apo- 1 A patient complained of a numbness in the muscles of the light arm, and a tingling sensation in the fingers, which symptoms he had first perceived on shaving him- self that morning. His pulse did not appear much changed, but it was not easily compressed. The action of the heart was un naturally vigorous ; his countenance had a tumid appearance and a leaden colour, but he had no uneasy feeliugs in his head, though he had walked a considerable distance to my house. I advised him to return home in a coach, and to be immediately bled in the horizontal posture, and forty-four ounces of blood were abstracted before syncope came on. The pulse soon began again to rise, and lie was largely bled a second time twelve hours after the first bleeding, and also until he fainted. In forty-eight hours after the first bleeding, the action of the heart and arteries had greatly increased, accompanied with feelings of stupor and giddiness, notwithstanding his bowels had been very freely evacuated; he was therefore again bled at the arm till syncope came on, having lost in the three bleedings no less than a hundred and six ounces of blood ! A few doses of calomel, which had been given along with strong purgatives, in a few days affected his gums, and created a good deal of mercurial fever, but his strength rapidly recovered after this went off, and in a few weeks all numbness left his arm, and its motions were so completely restored, that he could use a pen as well as before his illness. plectic attack is caused by some vessel of the diseased part of the brain giving way and pouring out blood, blood-letting is of no avail, and if had recourse to when the pulse is feeble, and the vital powers already much diminished, it never fails to hasten the patient’s death. In particular Inflammatory cases. — There are individuals in whom the loss even of a very small quantity of blood produces such exhaustion that it is impossible to carry de- pletion to the ordinary extent, even when they are labouring under inflammatory dis- eases. But these are constitutional peculia- rities, of which we can only be aware by pre- vious observation on the patient1. A nice point to determine in the employ- ment of blood-letting, occurs in those cases of inflammation where the powers of life are already so much exhausted from the duration of the disease, that though there may be a probability of the inflammation being subdued by bleeding, yet the exhaustion produced by any further depletion would of itself destroy life. Under such circumstances, recourse should be had to other means for controlling the action of the heart and arteries, such as large and frequent doses of the tartrate of antimony, mercury combined with opiates, colchicum, &c. In irregular Distributions of Blood.—Blood- letting will be found more or less injurious when had recourse to, where there is merely an irregular distribution of the blood, or undue quantity in a particular part, without any in- crease in the general circulation. Such cases are quite different in their pathological char- acters, both from those of congestion and of inflammation, and these three different condi- tions ought to be accurately distinguished. In congestion, the quantity of the sanguine- ous fluid is increased, or the vessels of an organ are in a state of plethora. In an inflamed part, a change of structure is going on, so that if an organ in a state of congestion be compared with one which is inflamed, and macerated each in water, the blood of the congested is washed away, leaving the natural structure unchanged, whilst in the inflamed organ, besides an increased quantity of blood, there is a change in the structure of the organ, par- ticularly an effusion of a sero-albuminous or puriform fluid, into the cellular membrane. 1 Case.—A lady about the middle period of life, who had suffered much from bad health, was suddenly attacked by the usual symptoms of peritoneal inflam- mation ; suffering with a fixed pain in the abdomen, great tenderness to the touch, a very rapid pulse. I opened a vein in the arm, and before she had lost five ounces of blood, the pulse sank and she fainted. Two hours afterwards, she had recovered from the state of syncope, and her pulse was revived, but very rapid and easily compressed. The local pain not having abated, the bandage was replaced on the arm, and scarcely had a couple of ounces of blood been lost when the pulse sank, and she again became faint. The pain in the abdomen not being relieved, after having recovered from the state of syncope produced by the second bleeding, a grain of opium with five of calomel were given every few hours, by which treatment the pain and all other symptoms were rapidly subdued. 3