475 BLISTER. “ Sulphuric ether a sufficient quantity. “ Make an etherial tincture ofcantharides by lixiviation in a movable apparatus ; distil this tincture to drive off the ether ; and a green, thick, and very vesicant oil will be thus obtained. “ Blisters thus prepared are very active ; but M. Trousseau prefers the following to them : “Blisters of M. Trousseau.—A piece of blot- ting-paper is cut of the form and size of the blister that is desired ; it is applied upon a sheet of diachylon ; and it imbibes some drops of the extract of cantharides by ether, and it is fixed upon the skin by means of the diachylon. “ M. Trousseau has tried comparatively the action of different blisters ; he has found that that which is prepared with the etherial ex- tract of cantharides was the most energetic ; the blisters of Bretonneau came next before the ordinary blister, and even the English one. “ Another advantage which M. Trousseau found in his blister, is that of being very port- able. ‘ Indeed,’ says he, ‘ I have lightly im- bibed with the etherial extract of cantharides a sheet of blotting-paper, which I have kept in the dressing apparatus of the hospital in the open air for fifteen days. The time having expired, I examined it ; on its surface were seen small silky needles of cantharadine ; I applied a blister cut from this sheet; it took effect at the end of eight hours. You will easily agree, that for our brethren who prac- tise in this country, and who are obliged to carry medicaments with them, it will be espe- cially convenient to have in a pocket-book, and under cover, a large sheet of canthara- dised blotting-paper, from which will be cut blisters as large as may be desired.’ “ These blisters have acted in the space of from six to nine hours upon two women, and from seven to twelve hours upon ten men. The mean has been from eight to nine hours.” Boiling water has been occasionally em- ployed as a means of inducing rapid and ex- tensive vesication. A sponge or cloth dipped in the liquid, is placed upon a surface of the skin, equivalent to the extent of vesication we wish to obtain, and immediately removed to prevent the risk of producing an eschar. Sir A. Carlisle has proposed the momentary appli- cation of a spatula heated by immersion in boil- ing water ; a modification which may be reck- oned more eligible and no less efficient. When an epispastic remains for a certain time in contact with the skin, it gives rise to a feeling of pricking and burning, the part be- comes red, tense, and tumid, and a quantity of serum being effused by the capillaries, the cuti- cle is elevated in the form of a vesicle. The effect induced is termed “ revulsion,” “ anti- spasis,” or “ derivation and it is said by Con- radi (llandbuch der allgemeinen Therapie, 8. 91.) to be exerted “ when a topical conges- tion, or stimulation, or other affection of a part, leaves that part, and is drawn towards another, and usually less important part.” To suppose that blisters act solely by the discharge they create is erroneous. It is the counter-irrita- tion which is the great sanative principle, and this may be obtained without vesication. Begin observes that the effect of blisters is to elevate the organic actions in parts to which they are applied, or towards which their action is di- rected, and that are more or less remote from the inflamed organs. So that independently of their revulsive agency, blisters excite the affected capillaries, and act in the same sa- lutary manner as internal tonics and stimu- lants. The immediate result of their action is in- flammation generally terminating in effusion, which varies in degree according to the inten- sity of the agent on the one hand, and the ir- ritability of the subject, on the other. If too feeble, we have rubefaction only ; if too power- ful, high inflammation and suppuration. It is a singular fact that vesication may be established without the existence of animal sensibility. The author of the article, “ Vesi- catoire,” in the Dictionnaire de Medecine et de Chirurgie Pratiques, instances a case where he has seen it completely produced, and fol- lowed by suppuration on the thigh of a para- phlegic subject labouring under compression and ramollissement of the spinal marrow. The inferior half of the body was entirely de- prived of sensation and motion ; the patient did not feel the blister, nevertheless an incon- tinence of urine, with which he was affected, was replaced by a retention of urine, which lasted several days. Blistering has been resorted to in the treat- ment of the following surgical diseases. 1. In acute inflammation, but is inadmissible before antiphlogistic means, capable of modify- ing the inflammation, or reducing the general febrile state have been employed. a. In inflammatory affections of the eye, and palpebral glands. In almost all cases will it be found useful in the second stage, but more particularly in the rheumatismal form of ophthalmia. In strumous ophthalmia, espe- cially when the corneal surface is affected, and the sensibility is from this cause painfully aug- mented, after previous evacuations, counter- irritation, by blistering alternately behind the ear and the nape is useful. Blistering the nape is likewise advantageous in purulent ophthalmia, after depletion ; as also in catarrhal ophthalmia, ophthalmia tarsi, retinitis, and in abscess of the cornea. In iritis, Mr. Lawrence is of opinion, that blistering often adds to the excitement, instead of lessening it; particularly if applied near the affected organ. As a general rule, in active inflammation, blisters should never be placed nearer to the eye than the nape of the neck, or the mastoid region. When they are applied to the forehead, temple, or side of the cheek, observes Mr. Lawrence, the inflamed organ may be included within the sphere of their irritation, with aggravation of the local symptoms, and prove decidedly injurious1. b. In inflammation of the external ear, when 1 A Treatise on Diseases of the Eye, p. 112.