131 AMPUTATION. If, then, it be true, that this local inconveni- ence is not unfrequent after amputations at the joints; that they sometimes produce a shock on the system which may of itself be fatal; that they almost always excite a more severe sympathetic derangement in the whole body, and kindle a more intense and more malignant fever than those performed in the continuity of the limbs, ought they not to be limited to such cases as admit of no other resource ? Where, from the extent of disease, the sec- tion of the limb must be made either at a joint, or beyond it on the side of the trunk, and where the inconvenience of going beyond it would more than counterbalance that of an articular amputation, the latter must be per- formed. The same may be said of those cases, in which a limb is so shattered or dis- eased that it must be removed at the joint immediately connecting it with the body. One of the most recent attempts to defend articular amputations is that of our respected colleague, Mons. Blandin. He even goes so far as to maintain that they are preferable to those performed in the continuity of the limb. In addition to the preceding observations, a slight examination of his reasons for this pre- ference will be sufficient to show they are not well founded. The advantages he supposes to belong to these amputations may be sum- med up as follows. He states that they admit of the operation being performed at a greater distance from the trunk ; that the parts to be divided are tendinous and not fleshy ; that the bone presents on the end of the stump a large surface, the union of which with the soft parts is facilitated by its great vascularity, by the absorption of its cartilage, and by the state of integrity in which it is left; whilst a bone that is sawn through has its vessels in- jured by the section, and therefore becomes less suited to form part of the cicatrix, and its veins more exposed to inflammation. We will not deny that joints do sometimes admit of the operation being performed at a greater distance from the trunk ; and we have already mentioned that this consideration must be taken into the account. In particu- lar instances, this may render them advanta- geous ; but, as a general rule or abstract prin- ciple, the preservation of a few inches of the limb is but a poor compensation for the many disadvantages that beset this species of ampu- tation. To overthrow the other arguments, we can appeal either to pathological principles or to tne results of experience. First, as to experience. It is an un- doubted fact that the great majority of prac- titioners reject these operations, and operate in the continuity of the limb, because, upon trial, they have found them decidedly disad- vantageous. Secondly, as to pathological principles, we repeat, tendons and ligaments are incomparably less suited than muscles to cover and protect the end of a bone in a stump and to enter into the composition of a cicatrix : the vital phenomena of the tissues composing an articulation are more slow and occult and less under our control. These tis- sues are hard, and of a form and texture the least adapted to constitute a cushion such as the limb requires; and their wounds are unde- niably more serious than those of the muscles. To have a large mass of bone at the end of the stump might be advantageous, if a large and unyielding surface were required there ; but everybody knows that the pressure which the stump has to bear should be distributed, to as great an extent as possible, on the sides of the limb. No artificial limb is constructed so as to press on the end of the bone ; and if it were, the skin squeezed between the bone and artificial member would soon ulcerate. M. Blandin truly states that the articular ends of bones are their more vascular parts ; and if very active vital phenomena were re- quired in the stump, they would be the best suited to form it. But the contrary is the fact. The stump should be, as much as possible, an inert, elastic cushion, not a highly vascular bony extremity. From being more vascular, these ends are more susceptible than other parts of morbid action and more exposed to its being excited in them, under the new circumstances in which bone is placed after an amputation. We are quite at a loss to know how our author, after remarking on their vascularity, can go on to say, that any other part of the bone is more liable than they to have its veins become the seat of inflammation, because it is cut through with the saw. Inflammation in the veins of a bone, arising merely from the latter having been cut through, in its dense, unvascular, compact substance, is a thing quite unheard of. On the one hand, then, great vascularity in the bone is not required for the formation and uses of a good stump, or to cause it to heal quickly ; and on the other, it tends to make it more susceptible of morbid action. M. Blandin remarks that the cicatrization of the stump is facilitated by the absorption of the cartilage. But does he not hereby imply that the presence of this cartilage is an obstacle to it. If the process of absorption be necessary, and necessary it is, before cica- trization can take place, the latter must be thereby proportionately retarded. We are told, in the same breath, that these amputa- tions are desirable, inasmuch as the vascula- rity of the articular end of the bone causes the wound to heal speedily, and yet, that be- fore the wound can heal the cartilage must be absorbed. That the greater vascularity of the bone does not at all compensate for the time required for the absorption of the carti- lage, (which is a long process) no one can doubt. If, therefore, he wishes for a prompt cicatrization of the wound the argument tells against him. We maintain, and it is the doctrine both of sound pathology and of experience, that the end of a bone sawed off, in its compact tissue, is advantageous in the stump, precisely be- K 2