104 EMPYEMA. PHYSICAL SIGNS. r. DRY PERIOD. II. PERIOD OF PLASTIC EX- UDATION. III. PERIOD OF a. Laminar Effusion. b. Gravitating Effusion. Inspection. Still unchanged. | Much diminished. Motions: partial of expansion of elevation ( Slightly less free \ than on healthy ( side. Diminished. Ditto. Ditto. C Usually dimin- J ished; but in rare 1 instances freer Ithan before. Palpation. Friction phenomena Tussive} vibration Peripheric fluctuation Occasionally to be felt. Slightly dimin- ished ? Tf existed before, cease now to be felt. Further dimin- ished. Imperceptible. (Abolished at the infe-| t rior part of the chest. / Producible. Percussion. Sound Not perceptibly changed. Slightly dimin- ished ; if notably so, the pseudo- membranous mat- ter is thick. None. Restores clear sound. Not sensibly dif- fering from health. Dullish, and ge- nerally and equably so; no distinct boun- dary to dull sound- ing part. None. Restores clear sound somewhat. Somewhat great- er than in health. Upper part of chest reco- vers, in some degree, its natural sound, the lower becomes perfectly dull; the dividing line is distinctly marked. The limits of the dull sound commonly change with the position of the patient. None. Extreme at lower part of the chest. tion, on: inspiration, on : Resistance of part per- cussed. Auscultation. Inspiration. Expiration. Rhonchi. Friction phenomena. Voice. intensity and du- ration slightly di- minished. Intensity and du- ration slightly di minished. None. A slight grazing sound. Intensity and du- ration slightly di- minished. Intensity and du- ration slightly di- minished. None. A rubbing, or even grating sound, chiefly marked in inspiration. Intensity and du- ration further dimi- nished. Intensity and du- ration further di- minished. None. Cease to be audi- ble commonly. Resounds more loudly than natural, and sometimes has an aegophonic cha- racter. Totally absent where effu- sion most abundant; dimi- nished where less of this; superiorly may be almost natural. Totally absent where in- spiration absent; diminish- ed higher up; superiorly may be natural, or more fre- quently prolonged, hard and bronchial. None. Inaudible. jEgophony frequently about the upper border of the effusion, especially at the angle of the scapula: sometimes absent or re- placed by bronchophony. Succussion. Mensuration. General. Partial. Horizon- (From nipple to tal ... \ median line. ' From nipple to sterno-clavic ar- ticulation. Vertical i From niPPle to vertical < antero-superior spine of ileum. From that spine .to 12th rib. / 1 )- \ ) i / Situation op surround- ing Organs and Parts.