171 EXFOLIATION OF BONE. ble lymph, and the absorption of the earthy particles. “ The saline part, or phosphate of lime, is absorbed first : in proof of this, it will be found, that before any mark of separation is seen upon the surface, the living bone sur- rounding the dead, for the extent of a mere line, has become as soft as if it had been steeped in acid At the same time that the granulations are in process of formation, the absorbents are engaged in removing the animal matter in contact with the dead bone, and in this manner the complete separation of the dead from the living part is accom- plished. The portion of bone thus detached is called the “ sequestrum.” That absorption of a considerable portion of both earthy and animal matter takes place on the living sur- face, from whence the sequestrum has been separated, may sometimes be seen in the in- stance of trephining or amputation, where, should exfoliation take place on the surface which has been sawed through, the dead bone comes away in the form of a complete ring : on applying this ring to the spot from which it has exfoliated, there will be found to be the space of at least a line between the living and the dead bone. It will be seen, that the pro- cess above described is precisely similar to that which takes place in the separation of a slough in the soft parts, inflammation at first excited, and leading on to ulceration and granulation, with a secretion of pus—“ the progressive absorption with suppuration” of Hunter. The effects of the inflammatory action set up in the osseous substance, are not confined to the surface immediately in contact with the dead bone; for if the exfoliation happens in one of the long bones, there will be found to be an increased deposit of ossific matter, in that portion of the shaft of the bone between the spot where exfoliation is going on and the medullary canal; and generally a diminution of the size of the canal is observed at this point, from the encroachment of more solid osseous deposit. In this manner the acces- sion of inflammatory action becomes not only the means of throwing off the dead bone, but also the agent whereby additional strength is furnished to the bone during the process of exfoliation. The mark of separation between the living and dead bone is soonest apparent on the ex- ternal surface, and proceeds from this towards the centre. The colour of the sequestrum varies in the different kinds of bone : in the hard bones, it is generally of a whitish hue, but in those of a softer texture, it is of a reddish yellow, ap- proaching in some instances to black ; in all, the bone after it is completely detached loses its natural polished smooth surface. When once the dead bone has become completely separated, the rising granulations, and the secretion of pus from the granulating surface, force the sequestrum away from its former abode, and it is then carried towards the surface in a way analogous to that in which other extraneous substances are ex- pelled from living matter ; suppuration takes place in the neighbouring soft parts, the abs- cess thus formed opens itpelf externally, and through this opening the dead bone is sooner or later carried off by this natural process of repair. We have already considered the absorption of living bone in contact with the dead ; but it is also the opinion of many persons, that a positive absorption of some portion of the sequestrum may also be effected. Wilson states, that although in general the absorp- tion takes place in the living bone, it still appears, that under peculiar circumstances, the absorbing vessels have the power of act- ing on, and removing the substance of dead bone. This happens after the dead part has been separated from the living, and when, from the shape and the form of the surround- ing living bone, it is prevented from obtain- ing a passage to the surface of the body, as in exfoliations of the cranium, when the inner table of the exfoliated part is broader and wider than the outer table, the absorbents of the living parts then make an effort to re- move it, and this produces the appearance which has been likened to worm-eaten canals. Russell1 attributes the change in the seques- trum to dissolution as well as absorption: “ The dissolution of the sequestrum is more or less complete. In young subjects it is more quickly and more completely dissolved. In those of more mature age, the dissolution of it is more tedious and uncertain. And in some cases a small portion remains unchanged, and resists all the power of the system. As to the causes which effect the destruction of the sequestra, it is plain that only a small por- tion of it can be destroyed while it remains in its natural place, united at both extremities with the permanent portions of the original bone ; and that, after its separation, it is re- moved from the ordinary sphere of action of the living parts of the system, so that it must then decay from some other cause. The in- ternal and softer parts disappear first, and probably owe their decay to the spontaneous decomposition which all parts of the body naturally undergo when they are deprived of life and detached from the system. The gradual operation of these unseen causes is perhaps sufficient to accomplish the destruc- tion of the sequestra in most cases. At the same time, their action is doubtless very much promoted, and the process of dissolu- tion very greatly accelerated, by the solvent power of the purulent matter which sur- rounds the sequestra. For this constant maceration facilitates the spontaneous decom- position of the detached bone ; and by re- ducing it to a fluid state, prepares it to be removed by absorption, or to be washed out along with the discharging of matter.” This 1 Wilson, p. 281. Russell on Necrosis, pp. 67, 68.