77 EMPHYSEMA. tissue of new formation ; and a case related long since by Ambroise Pare proves the wisdom of such delay : an individual received a wound in the trachea, no emphysema ap- peared, until the surgeon in attendance had brought the lips of the opening together. Rupture of the larynx or trachea,from a con- tusion, without external wound, is well adapted to produce the condition in question, inasmuch as the air effused through the opening in those tubes finds no channel for escaping outwards. Schreger describes a case of emphysema su- pervening on fracture of the thyroid carti- lage ; and Dr. L. O’Brien another, where a kick in the neck severed the thyroid and cri- coid cartilages and upper ring of the trachea, and led to very extensive diffusion of air. M. Canin has seen fracture of the upper ring of the trachea, without cutaneous wound (a gun- shot injury,) similarly attended. Openings in the larynx or windpipe, in consequence of organic disease, rarely lead to emphysema. We remember, however, to have seen it fol- low a perforation of the kind, immediately below the cricoid cartilage, in a female in the last stage of phthisis. Mr. Porter relates a case of chronic disease of the larynx, attended with sloughing of the arytaenoid cartilages and the establishment of a communication between the larynx and aesophagus. Here the opera- tion of tracheotomy, become absolutely neces- sary for the preservation of the patient’s life, was materially impeded by an emphysematous tumour, raising the skin more than an inch and a half from the trachea. To us it seems pro- bable, that the emphysema in Allan Burns’ remarkable case 1 also depended on perfora- tion of the trachea. Gooch, too, describes a case of hydatid [compound cystoid] tumour oc- curring in the antero-inferior part of the neck, accompanied with perforation of the trachea and local emphysema2.—A girl, suffering un- derchronic laryngeal disease, became suddenly affected with emphysema, spreading from the neighbourhood of the larynx, over the neck and face. The whole of the body, except the lower extremities, eventually became infil- trated with air ; and in spite of scarifications performed by M. Boddaut on three different occasions, the patient expired in forty-eight hours from the time of attack. The right ventricle of the larynx was the seat of a small round ulcer. M. Begin states, that, in subjects constantly employed in playing on wind-instruments, and in military men whose duty it is to give the word of command to troops, the walls of the trachea occasionally give way ; the consequent passage of air into the thyroid gland gives rise to the tumour described under the name of evtphysematous bronchocele. 6. We are not acquainted with any exam- ple of mechanical injury of the bronchi having induced emphysema ; but such an effect may be reasonably anticipated, when a communi- 1 Surg. Anat. of the Head and Neck, p. 51. 3 Cases in Surgery, vol. ii. p. 99. cation is thereby opened with the cellular tissue of the mediastinum. Perforations of those tubes from chronic disease are rarely followed by the symptom under consideration. M. Meniere, however, has observed rupture of a bronchus followed by interlobular emphy- sema of the lung ; and this, in its turn, by diffusion of air through the subcutaneous tis- sues of the neck. 7. A solution of continuity in the pulmo- nary vesicles, produced either by organic dis- ease or by mechanical injuries, especially by the latter, is the most frequent cause of emphy- sema. a. Organic Lesions. 1. Advancing from within outwards, a.—Per- foration of the air-cells maybe effected either by the extreme dilatation and atrophous de- struction of their walls, characteristic of the morbid state termed vesicular emphysema (chronic rupture), or by sudden laceration from unusually violent distension (acute rup- ture). Effusion of air into the cellular mem- brane is, however, a very rare consequence of an opening effected in the vesicles by the slow process of atrophy and distension. This rarity is probably referable to the following circumstances. In the majority of instances, perforation of the cells, as we have had fre- quent opportunities of ascertaining, open, not into the investing cellular tissue, but into the adjoining vesicles, the walls of which coalesce with their own. Secondly, the parietes of some vesicles are hypertrophous, and hence, by obstructing the surrounding interstices, contribute, with the natural density of the cellular membrane, to impede the circulation of any bubble of air that may escape from the cells ; while freedom of circulation is the more necessary for the production of subcu- taneous emphysema, because vesicular emphy- sema is commonly most highly developed at a considerable distance from the root of the lung,—namely, at its anterior border. On the contrary, when the rupture of a number of air-cells is suddenly effected, the passage of air into the interlobular cellular tissue, and thence into that of the body gene- rally, is not a very uncommon occurrence. Such is the mechanism of its production, when emphysema suddenly appears during intense struggles for breath, paroxysmal cough, or after violent efforts of any kind ; for the pro- duction of which, as is w'ell known, air is abruptly introduced in unusually large quan- tities into the lungs, and forcibly retained there by the closure of the glottis. Nume- rous examples of its development during the muscular efforts of parturition are to be found in authors. In this manner was, no doubt, produced the general emphysema observed by Wilmer, in a case of protracted labour, though that surgeon himself ascribed it to the absorption of putrid fluids from the uterus. A manifest case of the kind has been trans- ferred into the 17th volume of the Archives de Medecine from a Spanish journal. M.