352 AQUEOUS HUMOUR. The characters of the aqueous humour be- come changed during the progress of various diseases, and many anomalous examples are recorded, in which the chambers of the eye have suddenly assumed a milky or a florid appearance, which has continued for a short period, and then disappeared with marvellous rapidity. In these cases, the individuals have generally suffered from periodical amaurosis, or some form of intermittent blindness1 *. A sudden effusion of blood into the cham- bers of the eye may result from local injury, from excessive exertion, coughing, vomiting, straining, a severe fall or blow, great plethora, or any undue excitement, and is indicated, when existing as the only appreciable defect of the eye, by pain, tension of the globe, im- paired or lost vision, and, probably, also by great uneasiness in the head. In all such cases, the means of cure involve the adoption of the necessary measures for the prevention of local inflammation, or for its suppression, if it be present; with a due attention to the removal of general vascular fulness, if it exist. If the effusion of blood be considerable, the whole of the anterior chamber will have a dark red appearance, and the iris will not be visible ; but it more commonly happens that a small quantity only is effused, which sinks to the bottom of the anterior chamber,—its upper margin being of a pale, and its lower border of a deep red colour, and of consider- able consistence. This is not suddenly, but gradually absorbed. Walther and others re- fer to examples of this nature, in which the effused blood was small in quantity and disap- peared almost instantaneously, so that I am induced to suppose it ceased to be visible by passing behind the iris, and was absorbed in that situation. Effusion of blood into the chambers of the eye has been said to occur periodically in a few instances, and to be vicarious of menstruation. No case precisely of this description has fallen under my obser- vation ; but I have met with two instances in which the aqueous humour has gradually assumed a faint pink appearance, without any distinguishable inflammation of the eye. In both these cases (which occurred in young women suffering from a temporary suspension of the catamenial discharge.) the part became clear and healthy under the use of simple local applications, and the disease has not re- curred. Fungoid growths and abscesses of the iris sometimes occasion a sudden effusion of blood into the anterior chamber, but, in all such instances, the source of the haemorrhage is sufficiently manifest. When a sudden and considerable effusion of blood takes place into the chambers of the eye, in a plethoric per- 1 I am now attending a young lady suffering from periodical amaurosis (dependent on derangement of the uterine system), in the anterior chamber of whose left eye a considerable number of minute whitish par- ticles are occasionally to be seen. They are visible only when the dimness of vision is very great, and are not associated with any uneasiness or manifest signs of inflammation. son, independently of any clearly ascertained cause, as respects the organ of vision, it is advisable to recommend the patient to be freely bled, and to go through a course of proper depleting treatment. When the effused blood exists in considerable quantity, —when a dense clot has sunk to the bot- tom of the anterior chamber, when the ab- sorbent process proceeds very slowly, the cornea becoming prominent and discoloured, and the patient suffering severe pain,—it may be necessary to puncture the cornea, which, although it will not perhaps admit the transit of the clot, will, by permitting the escape of the more fluid aqueous humour, relieve pain, and lessen the risk of that extensive degree of staphyloma which will almost certainly follow the pressure of the irritating body against the diseased and probably semi-gangrenous cornea. By adopting this practice, I have, on several occasions, succeeded in restoring a certain degree of vision, and have also prevented the occurrence of any disfiguring alteration in the form of the eye-ball. A turbid state of the aqueous humour is commonly noticed in very advanced life, and, in a still greater degree, in connexion with inflammation of its secreting membrane, or of the iris, or anterior hemisphere of the crystal- line capsule. In old age, the aqueous humour sometimes becomes whitish, and a milky fluid has been said to be effused into the chambers of the eye when the mammary secretion has been suddenly suppressed (Rosas', Clemens*). The rapid healing of ulcers of the legs has been succeeded, according to the opinion of Clemens3, by an effusion of puriform matter into the chambers of the eye, which, however, have assumed their customary clearness on making an artificial ulcer in the site of the original disease. This has occurred under my own observation only in connexion with some form of inflammation of the eye, arising from the rapid healing of a sore, with the in- fluence of which the constitution had been long familiar. Two cases are recorded, in which an hydatid formed in the chambers of the eye4, i have related an instance in which a small and somewhat globular body was found in the chambers of the eye, which ap- peared to me to be a dislocated lens preserv- ing its transparency5; but several surgeons who saw the case, considered that I was mis- taken, and that, in fact, it pretty closely re- sembled that condition of hydatid disease de- 1 Handbuch, vol. ii. p. 671. 2 Scriptores Ophthalmologici Minores, vol. i. p. 142. 3 Opus citatum. 4 An account of the first case, originally related by Soemmering, may be found in Lawrence’s Treatise, p. 669, and in Schmalz’s Tabula Analomiam Ento- znorum Illustrantes. For a description of the second, the reader may consult the twelfth volume of the London Medical Gazette, and also a pamphlet pub- lished by Mr. Logan, under the title of “Animalcules in the Eye.” 5 A Treatise on the Diseases of the Eye, &c., vol. ii. p. 49.