FISTULA, INTESTINAL. 1.91 FISTULA, INTESTINAL. Under the designation of Intestinal Fistula may be in- cluded all preternatural apertures whereby a communication is established between the in- terior of the intestines and the surface of the body. The term thus embraces the various maladies and abnormal conditions which have been named fecal fistula, artificial anus, acci- dental anus, and anal fistula. If the latter affection, which has already been separately considered, be excluded, intestinal fistula then becomes equivalent to “ abnormal anus,” of Dupuytren : and in this sense the term will be employed in the present article. This affection may result from accidental injuries and diseases of the intestines, and from surgical operation. To all its varieties, the term artificial anus has, in this country, been indiscriminately extended, although it is strictly applicable to such fecal fistulae only as are designedly established by the surgeon. We propose to treat the different branches of the subject in the following order :— I. —Intestinal Fistula consequent upon Gangrenous Hernia. Spontaneous cure. Failure of spontaneous cure. II. —Intestinal Fistula from Abscess. III. —Intestinal Fistula from Pene- trating Wounds. i. Incised wounds. a. Without protrusion of the bowel. b. With protrusion. ii. Gunshot wounds. IV. —Anatomical Characters of Intes- tinal Fistula. V. —Effects of Intestinal Fistula. VI. —Complications of Intestinal Fis- tula. i. With prolapse. ii. With hernia. VII. —Accidents liable to occur after Recovery. VIII. —Treatment of Intestinal Fis- tula. IX. —Intestinal F'istula established by Surgical Operation. i. Perineal artificial anus. ii. Iliac artificial anus. iii. Lumbar artificial anus. I.—Intestinal Fistula consequent upon Gangrenous Hernia. W hen a strangulated hernia is abandoned entirely to the resources of nature, a powerful and occasionally successful effort is made to relieve the obstruction of the intestines. The protruded part mortifies; and, if the powers of the constitution are equal to the task, the skin and the other investments ul- cerate, the dead portion of intestine is cast off, and the feces escape. That nature unassisted is sometimes capable of accomplishing this pro- cess, the following case, admitted into Guy’s Hospital!, sufficiently proves. A female, aged sixty, for many years had been subject to femoral hernia, which became strangulated; pain in the abdomen, sickness, and vomiting, continued for two or three days, and then ceased ; the tumour inflamed, and gradually increased in size until the ninth day, when, the integuments having ulcerated, the feces began to escape from the groin ; in this con- dition she was admitted into the hospital. The experience of many surgeons can supply similar evidence. It is, nevertheless, rare to find the natural efforts capable of completing the process ; and more frequently the patient sinks exhausted, unless relief is obtained from surgical interference. When, however, the intestinal contents have been evacuated, either spontaneously or by art, through an abnormal opening in the abdominal walls, the natural powers are also fre- quently capable of restoring the continuity of the alimentary canal, and of ultimately closing the external opening. The various means which thus conduce to the spontaneous relief of the serious conse- quences of obstruction and stricture in stran- gulated hernia, require now to be separately- considered. Spontaneous cure.—Highly important in the restorative operations of nature, is the provi- sion whereby the separation of a gangrenous part of the body is generally preceded and accompanied by the adhesive process. This principle is beautifully exemplified in the sub- ject now under consideration. When a her- nial portion of intestine loses its vitality from strangulation, the living parts of the tube bordering upon the gangrenous portion, con- tract adhesions with the neck of the sac and neighbouring peritoneum. The edges of the opening in the intestine are thus united through the medium of the neck of thd sac, to the aperture in the abdominal walls, and a barrier is thereby opposed to the effusion of the intestinal contents into the abdomen. Thus the sac, opened by ulceration or the knife, forms a canal, continuous with the in- terior of the intestine, which allows the tran- sit of feculent and alimentary matters from the latter to the surface of the body. In process of time, these newly adherent parts become, as it were, cicatrized ; and the serous membrane of the sac appears continu- ous, on the one hand with the skin, and on the other with the lining membrane of the intestine, assuming, in function at least, some of the characters of a mucous membrane. Hence, in the treatment of gangrenous hernia, it is of the utmost importance to avoid disturbing the adhesions which are in process of formation, and which tend so 1 Sir Astley Cooper, on the Anat. and Surg. Treat- ment of Abdominal Hernia. 2nd Edit, part ii. p. 18.