26 ABSCESS. in inflammation, in some shape or degree. The opinion maintained by Dehaen, and his followers, that pus was perfectly formed in the blood, and circulating with it, could be deposited in our organs, without previous inflammation, is now no longer adhered to, by any physiolo- gist. Modern researches have led to a more correct view, and explanation of the circum- stances, which our predecessors alleged in favour, of abscess by metastasis ; for let it be granted to the fullest extent, that an abscess, fully formed, may suddenly disappear, and that another may as suddenly be formed in a differ- ent part of the body, we still have other means more in accordance with the laws of physiology, to account clearly for the phenomena. It is not necessary to suppose a veritable migration of the pus for such a purpose, when the dis- placement of the irritation affords a more ra- tional explanation of them. Inflammation being the only cause of abscess, the pus is ab- sorbed, and disappears under the agency, of the eliminating powers, and new pus is formed, where the new inflammation has manifested itself. There is, however, a class of purulent formations which have been brought under closer observation of late years, and which have been treated under the head of “ Metastatic abscesses,” to which we shall advert in another place. (See Purulent Depots.) The origin of all abscesses, in inflammation of some kind or degree, may therefore be taken, as a gene- ral or common character; in almost every other respect their differences are infinite. Thus they differ in the shades of inflamma- tion, which precede their formation, in the parts in which they are formed, in their pro- gress, in their extent, number, and position with respect to the internal or external sur- faces of the body, and to the qualities of the fluids they contain. Pathological writers have availed themselves of some of these leading differences, to estab- lish divisions, for the methodical consideration of the entire subject. Thus, from the condi- tions in which the inflammation has arisen, from its degrees of intensity or moderateness, from the greater or lesser rapidity of its march, has been established, the well known division into acute or hot inflammatory abscess, and cold or chronic abscess. The more modern, and more severe pathologists reject this division, as improper, and inapplicable to tumours, differing in their nature, and depending on different vital lesions. They regard all purulent tumours, as having the same origin ; namely, inflammation, and think, that the chief object of the practical surgeon should be, to study the modifications they present, according to the intensity of the inflammation that produces them, the nature of the organs in which they are developed, or according as the accumulation of the pus takes place in the tissue in which it was first formed, or as it may, by making way through the cel- lular membrane, present itself in a depending and distant situation. Having admitted inflammation to be the in- variable origin of abscess, the different pheno- mena which succeed each other, from the inva- sion of the inflammation, to the perfect forma- tion of the pus, should now be passed in review. The afflux of blood in the inflamed parts in- creases in the ratio of the violence of the irritation, of which they are the seat. The distension proceeds gradually, till some of the vessels give way, and the blood is shed around into the substance of the organs, which thus be- coming more compact and heavy, lose their elas- ticity. When this state of engorgement is al- lowed to go on unchecked, the parts lose their natural power of resistance, and are broken down easily; they become disorganized, and together with the blood; with which they are loaded, are softened into a pulpy mass, which gradually dissolves into a sanio-purulent fluid. This fluid, however, is not formed solely from the blood, which in the progress of the inflamma- tion had distended and ruptured its vessels ; it consists also of the debris, or destroyed portions of the solid tissues, with which it combined. These elements are still distinctly discernible in the fluid, which flows from abscesses, that are opened, before they are allowed to maturate, as in furunculus, and even in some abscesses that have come to full maturity; as for in- stance, in suppuration of the liver, the matter is almost invariably of a reddish brown colour, and often contains portions of the disorganized viscus, which give it a grumulous appearance, like the lees of wine, or coffee grounds. The pus, however, in the early stage of the suppu- ration, is not collected into one general cavity; before this occurs, many small focuses, previ- ously formed, and perfectly distinct, must be broken up, by the gradual disruption of the cellular, or organic walls, within which they were primitively confined ; many of these separations, however, even in very large ab- scesses, after undergoing attenuation to a con- siderable extent, remain as bands and threads, which exist unbroken, in the abnormal cavity. They are broken down successively, as the suppurative action is extended, and disappear entirely, when the cavity becomes very large ; but as long as they exist, they tend to check the extension of the suppurative action, and when it is terminated, they help to draw the sides of the cavity together, and to form the foundation, for healthy adhesions of its walls. Blood-vessels of a certain size, and nerves, w'hen they happen to be placed, in the midst of the focus, resist this breaking down, and preserve their normal communications in the bosom of the abscess, between the parts which the pus has separated; while the walls of the cavity are being thus extended, by successive addit ions of small isolated neighbouring focuses of pus, the pus itself becomes more and more perfectly elaborated; the last traces of the colouring matter of the blood disappear, the broken down organic debris fall to its sides and adhere to them, the pus becomes more homogeneous, and finally forms a fluid, sui generis, endowed with properties differing from those, of all other animal fluids. But it must not be inferred from this de- scription, that the accidental isolating mem- brane of an abscess, is nothing more, than con-