EAR, AND HEARING, DISEASES OF. 50 of the osseous labyrinth, but occupies only the vestibule and semicircular canals. The coch- lea, which belongs exclusively to the system of the osseous labyrinth, contains nothing of the membranous labyrinth. The lining vas- cular membrane of the cochlea is the same as the lining pellicle of the rest of the laby- rinthic cavity, but has nothing in common with the membranous labyrinth. Much smaller than the cavities which con- tain it, the membranous labyrinth is suspend- ed as it were in the perilymph. It does not appear to adhere to the walls of the laby- rinthic cavity, except at the points where it receives nervous filaments and blood-vessels. The component parts of the membranous labyrinth are, 1, the common sinus and sac- cule ; 2, the membranous ampullae and semi- circular tubes. All these constitute but one apparatus, which is the counterpart of the vestibule, ampullary sinuses, and semicircular canals of the osseous labyrinth ; the semicir- cular tubes opening into the ampullae and com- mon sinus in the same way that the semicir- cular canals open into the ampullary sinuses and the vestibule. Towards the outer wall of the vestibule, the membranous labyrinth is nowhere in con- tact with the base of the stapes, the perilymph intervening. This circumstance shows that it is by the intermedium of the perilymph only, that the movement of the stapes can have any impression on the membranous labyrinth. Fig. 200. Fig. 200. A magnified representation of the left osseous labyrinth laid open, to show the membranous laby- rinth in its situation.—(From Breschet.) a. Mem- branous ampulla of the ampullary sinus of the anterior semicircular canal; b, Membranous am- pulla of the ampullary sinus of the external semicir- cular canal; c, Membranous ampulla of the ampul- lary sinus of the posterior semicircular canal; d. Anterior membranous semicircular tube; e, External membranous semicircular tube; f Posterior mem- branous semicircular tube ; g, Common membranous tube resulting from the junction of the tubes d and f; h, The place where tlte external membranous semi- circular tube opens into the common sinus; i i, Com- mon sinus filling a great part of the vestibule ; k, A small mass of calcareous powder shining through its walls ; 11, Saccule, also containing, m, another mass of calcareous powder; n, A nervous fasciculus, fur- nishing ; o, a branch to the anterior membranous ampulla; p. Another to the ampulla of the external tube, and </, a third to the common sinus; r. Nerve to the saccule : another, not lettered, is seen going to the ampulla of the posterior membranous semicircular tube ; ss. Spiral lamina; s, The hook-like termination of the spiral lamina or hamulus; t, Commencement of the scala tympani near the fenestra rotunda, which is here no longer seen ; u, Commencement of the scala vcstilmli; x. Extremity of the axis around which the termination of the spiral lamina turns ; yy, A bristle engaged in the helicotrema; z. Place where the sum- mit of the axis is continued into the wall of the osseous labyrinth; w w w. Membranous portion of the spiral lamina, particularly broad in the last turn (lettered u u u, in the figure, instead of w w w) ; ***** Spaces between the walls of the labyrinthic cavity and membranous labyrinth, occupied by the perilymph. The membranous labyrinth is composed of a firm transparent membranous coat, within which is a nervous expansion, and outside which is a cellulo-vascular layer, in some places, especially on the ampullae, tinged of a brown colour. The membranous labyrinth contains a limpid humour, the endolymph ; and besides this there is in the common sinus and saccule, small masses of calcareous powder in contact with the nervous expansion. These calcareous masses, called otoconies, are analo- gous to the so-called bones in the ears of osseous fishes. Auditory or acoustic nerve.—From its origin to about where it enters the internal auditory meatus, this nerve presents most distinctly,' the delicate-walled tubular structure of brain substance. Within the meatus it assumes more the structure of cerebro-spinal nerves. The auditory nerve divides into two branches, an anterior or cochlear, and a posterior or vestibular branch, which externally remain bound together as far as the bottom of the meatus. The cochlear nerve. Dr. Pappenheim re- marks, is completely covered above by a broad reddish grey layer, consisting of ganglionic globules. The vestibular presents, especially posteriorly and externally a reddish substance which is ganglionic. The anterior branch or cochlear nerve is something like aflat tape rolled on itself long- ways. It proceeds forwards to the depression at the bottom of the internal auditory meatus, corresponding to the base of the axis. Here it resolves itself into a number of fine fila- ments, which enter the apertures in the spiral tract of holes. Traversing the small bony canals leading from these apertures into the substance of the axis, they enter the bony spiral lamina according as their turn comes, by bending nearly at a right angle, and spread out upon it. The first filaments given off are