244 ANEURISM. patient’s diet and keep his mind tranquil. The limb should be kept moderately warm, and whilst all cold applications ought to be avoid- ed, it is equally proper to guard against too much heat and the application of stimulants to the limb. Unless interrupted in its efforts, the economy is active in restoring the colla- teral circulation; so that if from the application of heat or stimulants the vascular system be too much excited, inflammation of the wound or congestion of the limb may take place. The diet should be mild, and merely sufficient to allay the sensation of hunger, and the bowels ought to be regulated by mild laxa- tives or enemata. With whatever facility the operation may have been performed, and, however favour- able the circumstances may have appeared to be when it was undertaken, yet it is some- times followed by a train of severe symptoms, either in the parts on which the operation has been performed, on the aneurismal tumour itself, or on the system generally. In some individuals the ligature of a large artery is succeeded by a greater or less degree of ex- citement of the whole system,—the pulse be- comes full and hard, there is an increased heat of the skin, and perhaps, too, uneasy sen- sations are excited in the wound, in the tu- mour, or in some internal organ. In this state, the chief means to be relied on, are the ab- straction of blood, sudorifics, laxatives, and such medicines as tranquillize the action of the heart. The quantity of blood to be taken can only be determined by the changes in the pulse which take place during the flow of the blood from a vein, and the blood should be allowed to flow until the pulse be subdued, the impulse of the heart diminished, or until a state of approaching syncope is produced. Should the large intestines not have been duly evacuated, an enema should be exhibited. One grain of calomel, taken singly or com- bined with three grains of James’s powder, may be given every four, six, or eight hours alternately with a small dose of saline medi- cine, or the common saline draught, according to the violence and duration of the febrile symptoms. As in cases where any consider- able degree of excitement has supervened after the operation, one bleeding is seldom sufficient to subdue permanently the febrile symptoms, the impulse of the heart and the pulse ought to be carefully watched, and when they rise again above their natural standard, or should there be any degree of local pain, whether in the tumour, or in the wound itself, under any of these circumstances the bandage ought to be replaced on the arm, and the blood allowed to flow until the increased ac- tion of the heart be again subdued. After the febrile state of the system has been com- bated, as far as can be effected by depletion, any immoderate action of the vascular system which remains may be allayed by the exhi- bition of the tartrate of antimony, opium, or colchicum. This depletive system may in- deed be pursued with the greatest confidence, recollecting the important fact I have for- merly mentioned, that a languid state of the circulation, caused by the abstraction of blood, instead of preventing, essentially contributes to the rapid deposition of fibrine within the canal of a divided artery, or within an aneu- rismal sac. Hence a patient, on whom an operation for the cure of aneurism has been performed, cannot, to ensure its success, be too much depleted, as far at least as regards the obliteration of the artery at the point of ligation, and strengthening the walls of the sac by the formation of concreted fibrine. Sometimes a limb becomes cold after a liga- ture has been placed on its main trunk. This seldom continues more than a few hours, and nothing is requisite but to keep it covered with some cotton or silk, taking care that it is so supported and covered, that no consider- able degree of pressure be allowed to bear on any particular part. But if the coldness of the limb continues for a lengthened period, further means must be employed to restore its natural temperature, such as placing bottles of hot water, or flannel bags filled with heated salt, in the vicinity, but not too near the limb. Sometimes a cold state of the limb is suc- ceeded by an increase of temperature above the natural standard ; and even with such a degree of congestion as to render it necessary to apply leeches, or even to take some blood from the arm. It sometimes happens, after either of the different methods of operating for aneurism has been employed, that sooner or later, even in a very few days, the aneurism regains its former size and again pulsates ; a circumstance which may occur from a collateral branch arising from the artery between the point of ligation and the sac, carrying on the circulation through the tumour ; or some branch communicating with the aneurismal artery on the capillary side of the sac, may, in like manner, cause a stream of blood to flow through the tumour. But whatever be the cause of the circulation being maintained in an aneurismal sac, it has been already pointed out, that a complete stoppage of the blood’s current is not neces- sary to secure the success of the operation. It is only requisite to procure the formation of fibrinous laminae within the sac sufficient in thickness to secure its walls against the impetus of the blood—an effect, which, in the cases alluded to, is produced by the very lan- guid state of the circulation, which continues in an aneurism after a ligature has been placed on the trunk of the diseased vessel, rendering much resistance of the parietes of the sac un- necessary, and by the same languor of the circulation likewise promoting the effusion of fibrine within the cavity of the tumour. A moderate degree of compression upon the tumour, will, in most cases, suffice to procure the cessation of this languid flow of blood through it. An aneurism may not only continue to pul- sate but to increase in size after the operation. In such cases, inflammation, suppuration, and