AMPUTATION. from pursuing the remaining steps of the ope- ration. / / Fig. 29. Larrey's triple flap for amputation at the shoulder-joint. No. 2 shows the lines of the incisions ; No. 1, a, b,c,b, the wounds cicatrized. Oval method.—Mr.Guthrie has recommended this method of operating at the shoulder-joint. The operation is performed in the following manner :—As the two incisions (i, h,y, fig. 27) to form the V unite at the acromion, they are both begun from this point. The surgeon, placing himself outside the patient, carries the arm a little away from the trunk. He makes the first incision, at the back of the joint, directing the knife obliquely from the acro- mion, and carrying out the point within the corresponding border of the axilla, at its lower part. He then makes another from the an- terior border of the axilla, to the point of the acromion. These flaps are both turned and held back, and the articular capsule is exposed at its upper and back part. It is then laid open and the head of the bone luxated. The knife is carried to its axillary side, and the assistant holding the artery compressed in his fingers, the separation of the limb is completed by cutting downwards ; the basis of the V being thus the last part on w'hich the knife is made to act. Fig. 30, Mr. Guthrie's method, of amputating at the shoulder-joint, modified by Velpeau. The head of the humerus is seen disarticulated, and the knife, car- ried to the inside, is ready to separate the limb from the trunk. The assistant's thumb, inserted deep into the wound, is compressing the artery, by grasping the flap between his thumb and fingers. Mr. Guthrie’s method is also practised by making the incisions from the surface to the ar- ticulation ; first, dividing the integument only, retracting it, and then cutting the muscles. When the shoulder is very full, this plan will afford additional facility. Velpeau alludes to a difficulty which is encountered in opening the capsular ligament, which, unless thrown on the stretch, yields before the edge of the knife, and remains undivided. It will be ob- viated in the manner already described, either by pulling the arm downwards, or by rotating the head of the bone, and tightening the cap- sule and tendons upon it. The oval method differs but little from the triple flap method of Larrey. If the circumflex artery is opened in the first incision, the assistant, in holding back the flap, must command it, as in Larrey’s plan. Circular method.—Alanson’s plan for per- forming this operation is, an incision, which divides the integuments only, encircling the arm, between three and four inches below the acromion. An assistant retracts the skin ; the deltoid is then cut obliquely from below upwards, until the articulation is reached; another incision opens the capsule, and cuts the tendon of the biceps. Arrived at this stage of the operation, modern surgeons cause the artery to be compressed before the soft parts in which it lies imbedded are cut. The capital fault of the circular method, as prac- tised by Alanson and Garengeot, was that they previously resorted to the ligature en masse. This operation by circular incision is difficult; but the result, as regards a good stump, is perhaps the best that can be ob- tained. The amputation at the shoulder-joint is not an operation of so modern a date as has been supposed. Laroque relates a case in which it was performed, in 1686, for gangrene of the limb :—“ The surgeon had taken a small saw to amputate the humerus, but perceiving that it was loose in its articulation with the shoul- der, he drew on it with some force, and the bone came out of its socket; after which, the boy recovered quickly.” But though the idea of it might have frequently occurred, it was not put in execution till the time of Ledran. The simple method of commanding the axil- lary artery, by compressing it in the flap, has, doubtless, had a share in obtaining for it much of the favour which it enjoys at the present day. It cannot now be ascertained to whom we are indebted for this improvement; but it is mentioned by Pojet in 1759, and by Ber- trandi in 1763. From the great number of modifications of the different methods applicable to this am- putation, it may be inferred, that although there is none which deserves an exclusive preference, yet, that each may possess advan- tages according to the nature of the case, which will render it more eligible than any other. With the general descriptions given above, the selection of the method, or the combination of different modifications best suited to the particular case, may be safely entrusted to the practitioner’s own judgment.