ABORTION. 24 the case may be, is inevitable. In such cases it has been proposed to rupture the mem- branes with the finger, a probe, a stilet, a piece of wire, &c. for the purpose of allowing the amniotic fluid to escape, which will excite the uterus to expel its contents. This opera- tion is successful in many cases ; but the ergot of rye ought to be exhibited after its perform- ance. It is maintained by many celebrated obstetricians, that rupturing the membranes is bad practice before the sixth month of uterine gestation, as threatened abortions be- fore this period are generally prevented by the means already described, and the haemor- rhage is more alarming than dangerous. The last part of this statement is true in general, but it is liable to exceptions. Most practical obstetricians, I apprehend, have met with fatal cases of haemorrhage caused by abortion or premature labour. It is a popular and erro- neous opinion, .among women of all classes, that abortion is a trifling occurrence, unwor- thy of notice, or of medical treatment, and rarely, if ever, fatal. The universal expe- rience of medical practitioners attests the contrary. It rarely happens that the ovum is entirely expelled during the first three months of pregnancy ; the uterus appears to be most reluctant in parting with its contents, as nature has not intended that it should, and though the embryo or foetus may be ex- pelled, the placenta and membranes are gene- rally retained, and give rise to haemorrhage, which may continue for an indefinite time, until the cause is removed. In such cases we ought to administer the ergot of rye, and, should this fail, to plug the vagina, and use injections in the manner before mentioned. The strength of the woman ought to be sup- ported at the same time, by tonics and nutri- tious aliment. When the placenta and mem- branes are retained, the obstetrician ought to examine the os uteri, when he removes the plug, and if he feels the placenta or mem- branes, to hook them down with the finger, if possible. When this cannot be effected, Levret,, Leroux, Burton, Dewees, Blundell, and others, recommend the introduction of a small wire forceps, a practice justly censured in strong terms by Puzos, and now generally discarded. It would be feasible when the placenta wras detached, and lodged in the neck of the womb, or tangible by the finger, but when it is recollected that this organ may be attached to any part of the uterine surface, it is obvious, that the random introduction of a forceps to seize it, without the possibility of knowing its situation, would be highly dan- gerous, as the operator might, much more readily, lay hold of the uterus than the pla- centa, and lacerate it. I entirely agree with Professor Burns, that w'hen the pregnancy has not advanced beyond the fourth, I should say the sixth, month, it would be better to trust to smart clysters and the plug. A pair of dressing forceps, as long, but more slender, than those used in lithotomy, will often enable us to extract the placenta or membranes, when lodged in the orifice of the womb, but I should hesitate to introduce it into the cavity of the uterus, for the reason already assigned. Dr. Dewees advises a small crotchet, P) which consists of a piece of steel, as thick as a small quill, fixed in a handle, and with a curved extremity. (See ac- companying figure, which represents the instrument one-third the natural size.) He passes this into the uterus when the placenta or involucra are felt with the finger but cannot be extracted ; and also in those cases in which a portion of the membranes remains in the cervix or os uteri, which prevents the contraction ne- cessary to stop farther bleeding. When introduced into the uterus, he twists the extremity of the instrument so as to entangle it in the placenta or membranes. In every case in which he has used it, the discharge has instantly ceased *. I It has been proposed to introduce the hand into the uterus, before the sixth month of pregnancy, for the purpose of extracting the placenta and membranes ; but every one who has observed the size of the uterus at this period, must con- clude, that the passage of the hand through its orifice, would, in almost all cases, be a most dangerous, if practica- ble, operation, and w'ould most probably lacerate the organ, and excite fatal inflamma- tion. It is certainly within the range of possibility that the uterus may be sufficiently developed at the sixth month of pregnancy to admit the introduction of a small hand; but granting such a case, it would only be an exception to the general condition of the organ. The pro- ceeding is, however, now the less necessary, as the ergot of rye will, in most cases, effect the desired object. Dr. Denman has ex- pressed himself clearly upon this point: “ The ovum has sometimes been retained in the uterus for many months after the symptoms of abortion had appeared, and when it had lost the principle of increasing. But it is not now thought necessary or proper in abortions to use any means for bringing away the ovum, or any portion of it, with instruments or manual assistance When abortion cannot be prevented at tho sixth or between that period and the seventh month, it is to be treated as natural parturi- tion. In such cases there is rupture of the membranes, discharge of the amniotic fluid, expulsion of the foetus and of the placenta, which occur in regular succession. The pla- centa and membranes are rarely retained after the birth of the foetus ; but should it be so, the administration of the ergot of rye will seldom fail to excite uterine action sufficient, to cause their expulsion. It is an error to suppose that this medicine cannot act on the uterus before parturition has commenced; I 1 American Cyclopaedia of Practical Medicine and Surgery. 12