410 GASfRO-HYSTEROTOMIA. undergo any considerable degree of pressure, the child is not unfrequently still-born : under such circumstances, the induction of prema- ture labour may be resorted to with great ad- vantage ; the child may probably be saved, and the mother spared much suffering A Where a greater degree of deformity exists, the difficulties which present themselves to the practitioner are often of the most per- plexing and formidable nature ; inasmuch as it may become a question whether the foetus shall be destroyed and extracted per vaginam, by the crotchet; or whether it shall be taken out by incision through the parietes of the abdomen and uterus : in other words, whe- ther we shall endeavour to save the mother, by the destruction of the child, or whether we shall attempt the salvation of both by the Caesarean operation. These are anxious and painful considera- tions, and have formerly given rise to grave theological discussions. In the year 1648, the question, whether it be lawful to destroy one life to save the other, was submitted to the doctors of theology at Paris, who decided,— “that if the infant cannot be extracted without killing it, it cannot be extracted without com- mitting a mortal sin ; in which case it is ne- cessary to have regard to the maxim of St. Ambrose, viz. if it be impossible to assist the one ivithout injury to the other, it is better to assist neither.” And such is said to be the doctrine of the Roman Catholic church at the present time2. Accordingly, in France, it is not usual to have recourse to embryotomy, until there be reason to believe that the child is dead ; the sacrifice of a living infant being regarded as murder, and altogether unjusti- fiable. Upon this point, Velpeau expressly says, that when the foetus exhibits signs of life and vigour, we ought, instead of sacrificing it, as is the practice in Great Britain, to extract it by the Caesarean section ; an operation, which, although truly formidable in itself, does not necessarily compromise the life of the child, and is not always fatal to the mother. Fie is, at the same time, of opinion, that when there are good reasons for believing that the child will not be born alive, w’e ought to prefer embryotomy 3. In this country, where the judgment of the practitioner is not necessarily influenced by any religious injunctions, it has been usual in cases where there is not sufficient space to admit of delivery, even with the aid of the forceps, to have recourse to the operation of embryotomy rather than to gastro-hystero- tomy, whether the child be living or dead4. The same doctrine has been supported by ' Vide Velpeau, tome ii. p. 808. 2 Vide Ryan’s Manual, p. 577. 3 Velpeau, tome ii. p. 859. 4 Under such circumstances the division of the symphysis pubis was formerly practised in France, hut is rarely resorted to in the present day. In this coun- try it has been practised but once; the very limited advantage which it offers, being more than counter- balanced bv the dangerous, and even fatal consequences attending it. Vide Symphysiotomy. some writers in Germany. This practice has, very properly, obtained, under the idea that the life of the mother is more valuable than that of the child, a consideration w hich, most assuredly, wre should never permit ourselves to overlook : for, as Velpeau very justly ob- serves, a thousand social relations will induce us, if possible, to save the mother. It may be regarded, therefore, as a general rule, that where there is sufficient space to admit of delivery by the crotchet, and w’ith a reason- able prospect of safety to the mother, we should not hesitate to have recourse to em- bryotomy in preference to gastro-hysterotomy, even though the child be living. “ To per- form the Caesarean operation,” says the editor of the Medico-Chirurgical Review, “ in pre- ference to embryotomy (where the latter is practicable), is most unwarrantable, and evinces a lamentable, not to say a culpable w'ant of judgment, as to the proper estimate of the value of human life.” • At the game time it must be confessed, that in cases of extreme deformity, the ope- ration of embryotomy, although performed with the utmost address, and with every pos- sible care, is scarcely less fatal to the mother than gastro-hysterotomy ; the injury done to the vagina, bladder, and other soft parts with- in the pelvis, by the unavoidable pressure of instruments, being frequently followed by in- flammation, gangrene, and other lamentable consequences. Baudelocque, indeed, does not hesitate to assert, that if practitioners had recorded all those cases in which they have delivered, or attempted to deliver, by the use of the crotchet, as has been done with regard to those who have undergone the Caesarean section, it would not be difficult to prove that many more women have died from the use of the crotchet, than from the Caesarean opera- tion. It would appear, therefore, that in such cases, w’e have only a choice of difficulties ; in deciding between w'hich we must be guided chiefly by the degree of deformity. F'or the purpose of ascertaining the degree of pelvic deformity, various plans have been recom- mended by obstetric writers. Coutouli in- vented an instrument which he called a pelvi- meter, and which has been employed by some practitioners in France and other parts of the continent, although its use, according to Sa- batier, is attended with some difficulty as well as pain. It has been rarely used by British practitioners, the finger being generally con- sidered to afford the means of taking the ad- measurement, not only with sufficient accu- racy, but with much more convenience. Burns considers the best pelvimeter to be the hand, which must in all cases, where an accurate knowledge is necessary, be introduced within the vagina5. It will be unnecessary to particularize the general dimensions of a well-formed pelvis : it will be sufficient for our present purpose, 5 Burns’ Principles of Midwifery.