551 BURNS AND SCALDS. restore the natural harmonies of the system. For this purpose, cordial drinks, wine, brandy, ammonia, ether, and camphor, may be exhi- bited together with gently stimulating enemas, and artificial warmth to the pit of the stomach; the extremities may be excited by sinapisms, and the uninjured portion of the surface by stimulant embrocations. No nourishment must be put into the stomach, as it will not bear it. The patient should trust for a time to his own solids. I have known the best effects wrought by the administration of brandy as recommended by Mr. Travers 1, given in gruel, in the proportion of one part of the former to two of the latter, in doses of a table spoonful or two, at short intervals, until a sufficient distinctness and fulness of the pulse is obtained, with a corresponding improvement of the com- plexion and superficial temperature. This treatment may be continued for days, occa- sionally intermitting it, and always gradually withdrawing it. The bowels are to be re- lieved by an enema, and if much stupor with previous costiveness exist, some gentle ape- rient, as a spoonful of castor oil, should be given. The stimulants may be gradually with- drawn on signs of approaching reaction; especially if the pulse become bounding, and the countenance flushed. The patient should be kept in a state of the utmost quietude, in a well-aired apartment. Where the pain is very great, opium, according to Dr. Dzondi, of Halle, is productive of the best effects. Mr. Travers, on the other hand, maintains that its use ought to be abandoned, as being in small doses ineffica- cious, in large, injurious. For my own part, I have never seen it do good. It is to the topical treatment we must look for relief. When the system cannot be roused by stimulants, it may be presumed that there exists an accumulation of blood in some in- ternal organ, suspending and paralyzing the central organ of circulation, characterized by the sluggish and imperfect action of the heart, the feeble thready pulse, and the diminished temperature ; for this, prompt ab- straction of blood is the only remedy. In such cases a difference will be found between the cardiac and radial pulse. Dr. Macfarlane states, that during the stage of collapse from a severe burn, after employ- ing stimulants without effect for four hours, fourteen ounces of blood were taken away from the arm, after which a renewal of the stimuli proved more successful, for in less than an hour the heat was restored to the skin, and the pulse became full and bounding2. On the recovery from prostration again, if there be strong vascular reaction mani- festing itself about the third or fourth day from the receipt of the injury, recourse must be had to general and local blood- letting. In a number of cases, the swelling of the surface in those parts where vene- 1 Essay on Constitutional Irritation. 5 Lib. cit. section is commonly performed may prevent the operation from being successful in ab- stracting blood, but there are few cases in which leeches or cupping will not afford a suffi- cient quantity. Nor does the removal of the cuticle, as Dr. Cummin has shown, prove any obstacle to the leeches taking. In some cases it will be prudent to resort to the employ- ment of antiphlogistic measures, even before any febrile movement is manifested. I have seen much good obtained by frequently re- peated small doses of sulphate of magnesia with tartar emetic. This combination acts gently on the bowels and the skin, tends to equalize the circulation and repress inordi- nate action. Where there is determination to the brain and the patient is vigorous, vene- section must be performed : if coma be pre- sent, leeches and cold should be applied to the temples. The lancet, however, is not to be hastily or indiscriminately used : it is to be remembered that the patient has a long debi- litating process to go through, we are there- fore called upon to husband those powers on which existence depends. An excellent rule to observe in such cases, is neither to over stimulate on the one hand, nor to lower too much on the other. Excess on either side is alike prejudicial. When suppuration is established, and the fever has ceased, or nearly so, the patient is to be supported with light, nutritious food. Too generous a diet is apt to retard the pro- cess of cicatrization, to render the granula- tions luxuriant, and predispose the patients to internal inflammation or apoplexy. An oc- casional purgative, as recommended by Dr. Kentish, is useful in favouring the formation of new skin. With this view calomel, with extract of colocynth, or calomel followed by a senna draught in the morning, may be exhibited occasionally. Where the ulceration is extensive, and the suppuration excessive, when the subject is of a constitution naturally weak, or impaired by the inroads of previous disease, the bodily powers, being insufficient to weather the reparative process, sink under it. Probably the patient may be going on favourably for a time, after which he begins to loathe his food—vomiting and diarrhoea supervene, the pulse becomes quick and feeble. In such cases, when the symptoms are grave, medicine generally proves quite incapable of enabling the sys- tem to sustain the exhausting process going on, and the patient generally dies hectic and emaciated. The surgeon, however, may some- times succeed in averting the impending evil. Let the patient have the lightest, and, at the same time, the most nourishing diet, given frequently and in small quantities, along with sulphate of quina and sesqui-carbonate of ammonia. Various astringent medicines may be administered to stop the diarrhoea. Dupuytren’s favourite prescription was two grains of sulphate of zinc with one of the watery extract of opium every four hours. Opiate enemas and suppositories will be found