l2 ABDOMEN. and the motionless. The moveable external walls, if detached all around from the edges of the bony frame, upon which they are spread out and supported, and if they are extended upon a plane surface, will represent the figure of a Maltese cross, the perpendicular limb, corresponding to the linea alba, from the xiphoid cartilage to the pubis ; the transverse, to a line curved in proportion to the size of the abdomen, drawn from the transverse pro- cesses of the lumbar vertebrae, on one side, to the same points on the other. The float- ing external wall being thus detached, the frame of the abdomen will represent a deep architectural niche, vaulted above by the diaphragm, (the remaining portion of the moveable walls) and excavated below, to form the well or pelvis ; the direction of the niche is somewhat oblique, being bent back at both ends. Fig. 1. The cavity of the abdomen, the anterior move- able walls, and viscera removed. The frame itself is extremely solid, and con- tributes mainly to the sustainment and proper position of the organs which it shelters ; with- out this disposition, the erect posture would be impossible, and the viscera would crush each other. A space of unvarying dimen- sions being thus provided, the abdominal ca- vity is completed bv parietes consisting en- tirely of soft parts. The unyielding protection of bone is now sacrificed to the necessities of function; mobility and protection must be combined in the texture of the parietes ; in a word, the ever-varying bulk of the contained viscera requires extensibility in the walls to meet the condition of distension ; elasticity to restrain its excess, and to spring back in pro- portion as the distension diminishes; and con- tractility to assist in the due performance of the functions of those organs. The struc- tures endowed with these properties, are muscles, fasciae, tendinous expansions, cellular tissue, &c. of which the moveable walls of the abdomen are exclusively formed. It is not our purpose in this article to enter into a detailed description of each of these parts. These details are minutely and lucidly exposed in a more appropriate place,—the Cyclopaedia of Anatomy and Physiology, Art. Abdomen, to which we beg to refer the reader. Our chief object being to give a rapid sketch of the surgical questions connected with this region, we shall enter no further into its anatomy than will be necessary to illustrate the various points under consideration,—to guide diagnosis,—or to form a ground-work for surgical precepts. Osseous Parietes.—These are formed above, anteriorly by the ensiform cartilage of the sternum ; laterally by the lower ribs ; poste- riorly by the lumbar vertebrae, sacrum, and coccyx ; and inferiorly by the ilia. Although, we refrain purposely from minute osteological details, it yet appears proper to point out the leading distinctive characters between the H bones of the pelvis, and the ribs and sternum, if with regard to the kind and degree of mo- jj! tion they derive from the action of the J muscles. The latter, under the influence of muscular action are so moved, as to alter directly the position of the subjacent viscera; so that we must here consider the bony walls of the abdomen as actively engaged in modi- fying the dimensions of the ventral cavity ; while the bony walls of the pelvis, on the contrary, remain during the action of the abdominal muscles unmoved, offering at the same time, however, a firm point of resistance, and thus permitting, through the medium of muscular contraction, pressure on the pelvic organs, and facilitating the propulsion ol their contents. The internal surfaces of these bony walls are chiefly padded with muscles; for the description of which we must refer the reader to the elementary works on Anatomy, and pass on to the consideration of the floating walls themselves. Soft Parietes of the Abdomen.—These are formed for the most part of the flat or broad muscles, which derive their names from their position, form, or the direction of their fibres; they consist of five pairs placed symmetrically with regard to the median line. Viewed externally the abdomen represents an oval, convex in front, its long axis being vertical, broader below than above, particu- larly in females, from the naturally greater expansion of the pelvis after puberty in that sex ; the reverse of this obtains in the foetus. Owing to the alternating contraction and di- latation of the walls of the thorax and dia- phragm, the convexity of its outline varies incessantly during life ; in emaciated subjects it is not convex but flat, particularly after death.