ARTHRITIS, TRAUMATIC. 398 way to the surface by fistulous tracks. Even under these circumstances, the lesion may still be confined to the synovial membranes, but in the immense majority of cases, the adja- cent tissues share in the derangement. The ligaments become enlarged by a de- posit of lymph in their articular tissue ; lose their natural glistening appearance ; and are gradually removed by ulceration. The carti- lage is softened, and slightly tumid,—presents small fossae on portions of its surface, extend- ing to the bone ; in other parts exhibits fi- brous brush-like projections, which hang into the cavity of the joint, and, in the end, is en- tirely removed. This ulceration commonly commences at the circumference of the carti- lage,—a phenomenon which is readily ac- counted for if the lesion be propagated as in many other cases by contiguity, since the por- tion of cartilage nearest to the inflamed syno- vial membrane must necessarily, in that case, be first affected. The bone becomes inflamed, and presents a softened highly vascular sur- face. In some cases, the inflammation is very much confined to the surface, and ends in the development of vascular granulations which ultimately prove the medium of ankylosis ; but in other cases, the disease acquires a deeper seat and advances to a confirmed and obstinate caries. Occasionally, small spicula of bone are detached; and a cure may be effected by the removal, in this way, of the articular surfaces, but most commonly, ampu- tation, or excision, are the only remedies. Around the joint are disposed masses of densely infiltrated cellular tissue, burrowing abscesses lined with granular lymph, and winding sinuses, the consequences of long- continued and deep-seated mischief. The morbid appearances of a wounded joint in the advanced stage of ulceration, correspond pre- cisely to those produced by idiopathic disease. “ Many of the phenomena,” says Hennen, “ presented by joints affected with white swelling are to be observed in some of the more protracted cases of gunshot injuries, and particularly a great diminution of their specific gravity.” The treatment of wounds of the synovial membrane will of course vary according to the period at which the surgeon is summoned after the infliction of the injury, and the vary- ing phenomena which the progress of the case may present. The first indication after the reception of a wound is to procure imme- diate reunion. A meddlesome surgery is bad in these cases not less than in many others, and the surgeon ought not to be curious to ascertain the exact extent of the wound or the ease with which a probe can be passed into the articular cavity. If, however, there be a strong probability of the presence of a foreign body within the joint, a careful exami- nation with the view of removing it is justifi- able. In the majority of cases, however, this complication is not to be apprehended, and the wound may be treated as a simple incised wound, by the application of straps of adhesive plaster or of lint dipped in the blood flowing from the wound, and maintained in its posi- tion in the ordinary way. The next indica- tion is to preserve perfect repose, and for this purpose it is advisable to apply a splint with bandages above and below the joint, as the patient, not at first suffering much from pain, almost unconsciously makes use of the limb. In addition to these means it is usual to em- ploy warm or cold applications, but with more than doubtful utility, since the fluid must tend to prevent the close adhesion of the dressings, and can scarcely be otherwise than prejudicial to the raw surface of the wound. If the con- stitution of the patient be such as to threaten the access of inflammation, antiphlogistic mea- sures may be adopted with the view of pre- vention. In all cases, the diet ought to ba low, the skin to be kept open, and the bowels in good order, though not purged. No error is more common than that of ad- ministering drastic and irritating purgatives, even when there is no reason to suppose that the intestines are much loaded. Of course, there should be regular evacuations, but the necessity of frequently relieving the bowels creates an unavoidable motion of the joint, than which nothing can be more prejudicial to its restoration. If these simple measures be adopted, it not unfrequently happens that no alarming symptoms are developed, even when the articular cavity has been very widely ex- posed, and the patient is restored, without ac- cident, to the perfect use of the limb. Sir Astley Cooper* relates cases in which com- pound dislocations of the ankle being thus treated were healed with extraordinary rapid- ity. Hey2 relates the history of several wounds of joints in which the articulation was so exposed that he could pass his finger into it, which nevertheless recovered without accident; and Boyer3, from whom we have already cited a similar narration, furnishes other examples. “ Many cases of wounds of the knee-joint,” says Guthrie4, “ in which the capsular liga- ment is wounded, and the articulation opened without injury to the bones, do as well as simple incised wounds made with a clean-cutting in- strument suddenly withdrawn after inflicting the wound.” If, however, this desirable result should not follow, and inflammation commence, our measures ought to be taken early and with vigour. Blood-letting to a considerable amount ought to be made use of both generally and locally, the tartarized an- timony should be administered in nauseating doses, or should be combined with calomel and opium, and every measure taken to moderate the fever that must ensue. As to diet, and the preservation of rest, precisely the same rules ought to be observed as before the accession of the inflammatory symptoms, 1 Sir A. Cooper on Dislocations and Fractures. 2 Practical Observations in Surgery. Edition 3rd. London, 1814. 3 Traite des Maladies Chirurgicales. 4 Guthrie on Gun-shot Wounds. 12