FISTULA, SALIVARY. 223 salivary glands. They are generally caused by wounds, ulcers, or abscesses, in which these ducts, or their radicles, are involved. In some rare instances, they have been known to originate in the development of a calcu- lus in some part of the excretory passage. A salivary fistula is readily recognized by the issue from its orifice, particularly during mas- tication, or the act of speaking, of a viscid, transparent fluid, the saliva. The orifice is generally small, and sunk; sometimes its edges are callous. Under ordinary circum- stances the affection is rather a source of in- convenience than of danger ; but when the quantity of saliva is very great, the appetite and digestion are much impaired, and wasting of the body follows. The facility and success of the treatment depends much on w hether the orifice is of recent or ancient formation : whether the skin is sound or callous : whether the natural canal beyond the orifice of the fistula still exists, or not; or whether it is situated anterior or posterior to the masseter muscle. The treatment itself varies accord- ing as the fistula arises from the body of the gland, or from the excretory duct. For the present we shall confine ourselves to the fis- tula of the parotid gland, and Steno’s duct, reserving our observations on fistulae of the other salivary glands for the article Ranula. When the fistula interests Steno’s duct, the indications of cure are,—the re-establish- ment of the course of the saliva, either by the dilatation of the obstructed passage, or by the formation of a new one, if it should be already obliterated, and the cicatrization of the orifice of the fistula. Various means have been em- ployed for this purpose, such as silken cord, gut, lead wire, &c. to effect the dilatation, and caustic or suture to heal the fistulous opening. When the fistula is of recent date, the re- sult of a wound, and the rest of the canal is in its natural state, cauterization by means of the nitrate of silver will often be sufficient to effect a cure. The eschar should be suffi- ciently large and firm to prevent the flow of the saliva, and should be protected by compresses of lint, and a bandage. In about twelve or fifteen days the cicatrization will be complete, during which time the patient should abstain from solid food, and speak little. If the fistu- lous opening has been established by a wound recently inflicted, and where there is no alte- ration of the skin, it will be better to have recourse to the twisted suture at once. One needle will be quite sufficient, and it should be placed in a vertical direction, if possible. The cure has sometimes been attempted bjr making compression on Steno’s duct, between the gland and the fistulous aperture. This is a painful, and at the same time an unsurgical proceeding, as the inflammation it produces, and the abolition of the function of the gland, is a heavy penalty for the cure. The natural canal between the fistulous and the buccal opening, in old cases, is often nar- rowed to such a degree, that it is only pos- sible to pass a very delicate probe. Under such circumstances, dilatation must be had recourse to, before any attempt is made to close the anormal orifice. For this purpose Anel’s stilet, armed with a silk cord, should be passed through the duct, and brought out at the opening in the cheek. This is done by turning the inside of the cheek out, when the buccal orifice is easily discerned. The silk cord is then drawn into the duct, and its ends secured in a knot on the cheek. The number of the silk cords drawn through the duct is gradually increased until the passage recovers its natural calibre. The meche should then be cut on a level with the fistulous aperture, and drawn a little way within it, where it should be allowed to remain until the cica- trization is effected, either spontaneously or otherwise. Fig. 265. When, however, the natural passage is wholly obliterated, the cure of the external fistula can only be effected through the esta- blishment of an internal one. For this pur- pose various methods were formerly in use, such as perforation with a red hot wire, or with a thin blade, for the purpose of intro- ducing a canula, on the same plan as a similar instrument is used in the operation for fistula lachrymalis. Monro preferred the simpler plan of making the new passage with a shoe- maker’s awl, of a proper size. At the present day this plan has yielded to another, which attests the progress of improvement in the manufacture of surgical instruments. The awl has been replaced by a delicate canula- trocar. The perforation is made as nearly as possible in the direction of the natural duct, that is obliquely forwards and inwards. A piece of cork, or the finger, should be placed inside the cheek, so as to guard the tongue from being wounded. The trocar is withdrawn, and the silk cord or gut is passed through the canula into the mouth. In Du- phenix’s process, of which this is a modifica- tion, the canula was shaped like the mouth- piece of a lute, so that when drawn sufficiently within the fistulous orifice, it might rest the more comrnodiously in the flesh of the cheek.