asphyxia. 424- in the structure of the lungs. The pulmonary veins then discharge their last meagre supply through the left auricle into the left ventricle, which propels its last and feeblest tide into the arteries, in which the circulation has, every moment, become more scanty, until the pulsa- tion has gradually been extinguished.” Tn support of his views Dr. Kay adduces one of Bichat’s own experiments. “ If a stop-cock be adapted to the trachea exposed and di- vided, and afterwards be shut, the blood be- comes darker, and springs for some time with its usual force” from a divided artery ; “ but at length the jet becomes feebler ; re-admit the air, the blood becomes almost immediately red, and its saltus rapidly increases.” “ In this experiment,” observes Dr. Kay, “ the ex- clusion of air is not continued so long as to produce a perfect abstraction of the oxygen remaining in the air-cells, when the stop-cock is closed ; nor to extinguish the respiratory powers, the manifestation of which is resumed as soon as the stop-cock is re-opened. The blood, changed in colour, but not yet so much impaired in its qualities as to be unable to traverse the lungs, still circulates, and air is admitted at a moment when the danger of the occurrence of asphyxia is imminent; but when the respiratory powers and the organic func- tions are still supported by a blood partially oxygenated.” But in addition to the experiment of Bichat referred to, Dr. Kay performed others in fur- ther corroboration of his theory. He asphyx- iated animals (rabbits and hares) by tying the trachea, and then opened a large artery, as the external iliac artery or the aorta. At the end of the second minute from the commence- ment of the experiment, when the external iliac artery was divided, a considerable quan- tity of dark blood flowed ; but at the third minute it had almost ceased to escape. The heart continued to contract vigorously, and very small quantities of dark blood were ob- served to collect slowly every twenty seconds at the extremity of the artery ; and although at the end of five minutes all flow of blood entirely ceased, the left heart continued to contract spontaneously for a very considerable period longer. When the aorta was divided no blood flowed from it after three minutes and a half, but the heart continued vigorous the usual period. From these experiments Dr. Kay concludes that when the conversion of venous into arte- rial blood is prevented by excluding the at- mospheric air, the blood gradually ceases to circulate in the capillary vessels of the lungs, in consequence of its being so changed as to fail in exciting the action of the vessels of ar- terial blood ; the cavities of the left heart con- sequently receive a smaller quantity of blood, which is expelled for a time vigorously into the arteries. The ventricle, meanwhile, di- minishes in size as the quantity of blood sup- plied becomes less, until, at length, although spontaneous contractions still occur in its fibres, no blood issues from a divided artery, and the ventricle, by contraction, has oblite- rated its cavity. After this, blood slowly ac- cumulates in the auricle from the large vessels of the lungs, and its contractility continues for a very considerable period. In opposition, then, to the theory of Bichat and of Good- wyn, Kay argues with Harvey and Haller, in supposing the circulation in asphyxia to be primarily arrested in the lungs ; but he does not suppose, with them, that this occurs from a mere collapse of the air-cells, or from a re- flection of the vessels of the lungs on them- selves offering a mechanical impediment to its transmission, but in consequence of the de- generated venous blood being insufficient to excite those pulmonary capillary vessels, whose natural stimulant is arterial blood. In our account of Bichat’s theory we have seen that he considered the presence of “ black or venous blood in the organs to be incompatible with the performance of their respective functions, and that especially the irritability of the brain and muscles soon perished under its poisonous influence.” Dr. Kay, however, conceives that dark blood from the left heart has no positively noxious influ- ence on the muscles, but that its presence supports their contractile power for a consi- derable period. To prove this he secured three rabbits, and opened the abdomen of each ; he tied the aorta of one above the renal arteries, and also the left common iliac close to the aorta. In eight minutes he opened the vena cava of the second, and the blood which immediately flowed he injected into the aorta of the first, and found the contractility of both extremities to be equally vigorous. At the fourteenth minute the degree of contrac- tility having been ascertained by the insertion of needles attached to the wires of a galvanic battery, he injected another quantity of blood, and he found no difference in the contractility of the muscles in the two extremities. He then injected, in the course of thirty minutes, venous blood obtained from the cava of the third rabbit, and at each interval between the injections the wires were equally applied to the muscles of both extremities, and their contractility gradually and equally declined in each, as in experiments in which the artery is simply tied. Anxious, however, to compare the effect in the muscles, and with the biood of the same animal, cceteris paribus, he per- formed the following experiment :—The tra- chea of a rabbit was laid bare, a ligature was passed beneath it, and one also beneath the abdominal aorta, above the superior mesente- ric artery. The aorta and trachea were tied nearly at the same moment; the muscles con- tinued equally vigorous for some time on the application of the wires of the battery ; they then equally and gradually decreased in strength, and in one hour ceased, contracting to the stimulus at the same time; the muscle of the upper extremity appearing, towards the close of the experiment, to be somewhat stronger. From these and other experiments Dr. Kay infers, that dark blood from the left