172 EXFOLIATION OF BONE. solvent power of pus is a point that all are not disposed to allow in the present day; and reference is made to what appears to be a more philosophical and rational view of the changes effected in the sequestrum. Dr. Hodgkin, whose high authority we shall here quote, considers the changes produced before the connexion of the dead bone with the ori- ginal and with the newly formed bone ceases, so that it is an action of the absorbents of the bone itself, before its vitality has entirely left it. “ If the old and new bone have remained for some time united before the separating process takes place, opportunity will be afforded for interstitial absorption, the neces- sary attendant on nutrition, to modify the surface of the old bone before its death oc- curred ; hence the parts which continued the longest to live, will present an altered surface, whilst those which were the first to die will more nearly retain their original character.” We shall more fully allude to the connexion of the old and new bone above referred to, when considering the reproduction of bone. The rapidity with which exfoliation takes place, depends on the structure of the bone affected ; in those of close and firm texture, it takes place much more quickly than when the structure is loose and cellular. “ Those bones which are soft, and possess more animal matter, support a state of disease longer than those which are harder and more compact: from their greater vascularity, they are enabled for a time to resist death ; while the harder bones soon yield to its influence, from not being able to carry on diseased actions, and those actions which are to support life at the same time.” The manner in which this new bone is produced, and the parts which are concerned in the necessary action, is a subject of great interest, and one that has given rise to no small degree of controversy *. Various opi- nions have been broached by different authors; some contending that the periosteum is nearly the sole agent concerned in producing the new bone, others supposing that the old bone is alone engaged in this process ; whilst others again give the power to the united action of the periosteum and bone, and some contend that not only these last two, but also that all the surrounding soft parts are capable of assisting in effecting this purpose. One ob- ject on the present occasion is simply to consider the mode of supplying the deficiency left by the exfoliation of a dead portion of bone ; now it must be admitted, that if we 1 That the vessels of living bone must be considered as almost exclusively the proper sources from which new osseous matter is supplied, and the agents by which organization of the new deposit is effected no one can be inclined to doubt; but a question has arisen as to the assistance which periosteum affords in the process of repair, either directly by throwing out from its vessels the nidus for bone which those vessels sub- sequently organize and convert into perfect bone, or indirectly bv any other less important exercise of its functions in assisting with other soft parts in per- fecting reproduction. find the restoring action in any one or more living parts sufficient to make good this loss of bone arising from causes different to those under consideration, we may surely assign the same power to these parts on eveiy occasion in which their function may be called into operation. It would indeed be somewhat unphilosophical to suppose that, though new bone were capable of being produced by the combined action of the periosteum and its subjacent healthy bone, in the case of frac- ture, yet that in the case of exfoliation, we should consider them insufficient, and look for an extension of this power to other surround- ing soft parts. This extension of function would indeed appear a superfluity, unless it be proved that a necessity for this extra power were created for a special purpose ; as an auxiliary, but not as a primary and principal agent. Those who are of opinion that the perios- teum is the sole agent concerned in the pro- duction of new bone state, that that membrane becomes vascular, thickened, soft and spongy, and more loosely attached to the bone ; that a similar change takes place in the cellular tissue immediately in contact with the peri- osteum ; and that between the layers of this altered periosteum, the ossific matter becomes deposited. Russell1 very fully con- troverts this doctrine ; he says, that “ if the bony matter is deposited between the layers of the periosteum, the new osseous shell should derive a complete covering from the original periosteum which is not the fact.” “It is then evident, that ossific granulations arise both from the internal and external sur- face of the new osseous shell, but on neither of the surfaces does the smallest vestige of a covering derived from the original periosteum make its appearance.” After instancing the case of overlapping fractures, where the whole of the fractured bone is included in an osseous shell, and in which some portion at least could not be produced by the old periosteum, and also comminuted fractures, wffiere the de- tached bone must be covered by a detached portion of periosteum also, “ it seems quite preposterous to ascribe any share in-the re- production, to the action of a detached and probably lifeless portion of periosteum.” After stating these instances, together with some others, he leaves the question as to what part produces the new bone in doubt, and ends by the following statement; “after a due consideration of every circumstance, it ap- pears that the pulpy mass which extends from one portion of the bone to the other, and is itself at last converted into bone, is entirely a new creation, and has no dependence upon the original bone, or its periosteum. Yet, from whatever part it derives its origin, it serves the purpose of a bed for the ossific gran- ulations to shoot from In the paper of Dr. Hodgkin before alluded to, he considers the 1 Russell on Necrosis, t. 13. ct scq. 2 British Annals of Medicine, vol. i. p. 66.