ANKYLOSIS. 319 suppuration and caries in several situations around the articulation, had subsided two years ago, leaving the tibia partially dislocated out- wards and backwards, the knee bent to the fullest extent, the patella almost immoveably fixed upon the external condyle of the femur, and the toes rotated outwards ; her favourite method of supporting the limb during the pro- gress of the disease, having been the placing the outer side of the leg and ankle upon the opposite thigh close to the inguinal region, where she in fact had pertinaciously held it to guard it against jars, shocks, &c. The most appropriate mechanical means, aided by frictions, baths, manipulations, &c. had been i resorted to by the gentlemen who had at- tended the case, and with considerable dimi- nution of the contracted state of the knee- joint, as when I was first introduced to the patient the leg could be extended almost to a | right angle with the thigh, at which point its further extension was arrested by the rigidly contracted flexors of the knee ; in which state the limb had obstinately remained for the last twelve months. The ankle joint was also fixed, the foot being in a straight line with the leg, owing to the more powerful posterior muscles of the leg (gastrocnemii, tibialis posti- 1 cus, flexor longus pollicis, and flexor longus digitorum) having obtained the ascendancy during the long inaction of the limb, over their weaker antagonists. The muscles of the ! thigh were smaller than those of the opposite side, but the most notable disproportion both of hard and soft parts had occurred in the leg and foot, the tibia and fibula being shorter to the extent of between two and three inches, and the circumference of the leg being less by nearly one half, than that of the sound side. Before resorting to any other than purely mechanical means for the straightening of this limb, many important circumstances suggested themselves for consideration, embodied in the following queries entertained by me at the > time. What is the precise condition of the parts composing the joint ? Is there any alteration in the articular sur- | faces and ligaments which can impede the bending of the joint ? What share have the evidently contracted gastrocnemii in maintaining the ankylosis of the knee. Is there no danger of reproducing the dis- ease of the articulation, by performing any i operation in its immediate vicinity, and by a I comparatively rapid extension of the limb, dis- turbing the present quiet state of the liga- ments ? And if the operation prove successful and the knee be straightened, will the patient have a limb (shortened and wasted as are the | bones and muscles of the leg,) sufficiently use- ful to repay her for the pain and risk of the proceeding ? The condyles of the femur were evidently enlarged and the tibia was articulated chiefly with the under and posterior part of the ex- ternal condyle ; vet as by a careful examination, the leg being held for the purpose as much extended as the ankylosis would admit, it was satisfactorily ascertained that the patella was not adherent by osseous union to the femur, as a slight motion upon its transverse axis could be communicated to it, and the joint could be freely flexed still more, so as to bring the heel almost in contact with the nates ; it was highly probable that no difficulty to a greater exten- sion of the limb was offered by the bones and ligaments, for if the latter were so lax as to admit the joint to be easily flexed to the full natural extent, they would, supposing that other existing obstacles were removed, for the same reason allow extension to be performed. The only ligaments about which there could be any doubt, were the lig.-post. of Winslow, and posterior crucial; but as these must have undergone some disorganization, or even elon- gation in order to have admitted a partial luxation of the tibia backwards, they there- fore, instead of being rendered tense, and thus opposing extension of the limb, would be relaxed by the curative efforts and rather facilitate its reduction. When a quick effort was made with the hand to straighten the limb, there was felt, it is true, a sudden stop to the extension, almost as if there were an osseous hitch somewhere in the joint, and I at first thought it was the patella, which by its firm connexion to the outer condyle offered the obstacle. But agreeing with the diagnostic sign laid down p. 312, the forcible attempt to straighten the limb produced pain along those muscles on the back of the thigh, which re- sisted motion in the direction intended ; they were called into exercise and became rigid, but when tired out, in a few seconds their or- ganic contractibility yielded gradually to the application of the superior power of the hands up to a certain point, beyond which they were incapable of elongation. It was evident to me therefore that the shortened state of the flexor muscles constituted the chief impedi- ment in this case, although the fasciae and other soft parts surrounding the joint contributed their share to the contracture. To be satis- fied however that the state of rest, of from only four to five years, could produce such a permanent shortening of those muscles as to render the bending of the joint impossible, whereas after adult age it is known that by perseverance similar contractions of many years’ standing, inducing ankylosis, may be overcome, thus leading us to a conclusion the reverse of which we usually infer from our knowledge of the greater laxity and extensi- bility of the tissues in youth, we must review and compare the circumstances attendant upon the progress of such cases as respects the mus- cles, at different ages. Physiologists have as- signed various intervals during which the various parts of the animal machine undergo a total change of their component parts; some are of opinion that within seven years, every integrant particle of the body is removed and its place supplied by others ; this again as regards the harder and particularly the osseous