346 ANUS. Abundant injections of marsh-mallows water were now thrown up, to wash out the intes- tines as quickly as possible. The first phalanx of the index finger reached to the bottom of the wound, which was dressed with a thick mesh of charpie smeared with ointment. This mode of dressing was kept up for fifteen days ; after this period, granulations began to sprout from the edges of the wound, impeding the progress of the fecal matter, producing colic pains, and giving rise to ano- ther remarkable phenomenon. As soon as the anal opening began to be obstructed, the stools became less frequent, and more difficult, and the urine which was voided, pure and limpid, was followed by a small quantity of excrementitial matter. The wound having been enlarged towards the coccyx, the bowels were again easily relieved, and for some days the urine alone was voided by the urethra. But again the granulations springing up, and obstructing the anus, the fiscal matter was observed to be passed, though in small quantity, after the urine. These were checked by the application of nitrate of silver, and the artificial anus having been kept open by the introduction of large- sized bougies, till its cicatrization with suffi- cient dimensions was completed, faecal matter was no longer observed to come by the ure- thra. The border of the anus itself, after a little time assumed the plicated appearance of the natural outlet. M. Roux blames the mode adopted by other surgeons in treating those cases, by puncture with a bistoury, lancet, or trochar,as hazardous ; whilst, on the other hand, by a slow and me- thodical dissection of the muscles of the peri- neum and anus in the median line, the surgeon readily ascertains his chances of success, for as soon as he has passed the elliptical muscles of the sphincter, and the levatores ani, he enters upon the cellular tissue, in which the finger will enable him to detect the intestine. There can be no doubt that the finger is by far a better exploring instrument than a probe or sound. It is possible, however, (although the case must be extremely rare,) that the rectum may be entirely wanting, and, in such a case, the only chance of saving life would be, to cut into the sigmoid flexure of the colon, as successfully performed by Duret of Brest, thus establishing an artificial anus above the iliac region. M. Roux’ theory as to the formation of the rectum, is the same as that of M. M. Serres and Geoffroy St. Hilaire, who account, for the atrophy or absence of the organs ge- nerally, by the deviation or absence of their nutrient arteries. The arteries of the rectum are derived from the inferior mesenteric, the hypogastric and the pudic ; collectively they are called hcemorrhoidal, being distinguished into the superior, middle, and inferior ; but their origin being different, they are very rarely all absent in the same individual, and hence a well-grounded hope may be enter- tained, when the inferior extremity of the gut is wanting, that it will be found higher up, in front of the sacrum. In M. Roux’ case, the imperforation, as in most of those cases, was attributable to the deviation, or diminution in calibre of the branch of the pudic, which is, in reality, the formative artery of the inferior ex- tremity of the rectum ; and hence it happens that imperforations of the anus are often ac- companied by malformation of the sexual organs. The passage of faecal matter, which, it will be remembered, was voided by the ure- thra, when the artificial anus was obstructed by granulations, is explained by M. Roux, by supposing that a sort of urachus, provided to remedy the obliteration of the natural outlet, and formed by the deviation of the inferior htemorrhoidal artery, a branch of the pudic which supplies the penis, was prolonged ante- riorly from the blind extremity of the rectum into the urethra. From this deviation or ab- sence of the arterial branches, where the rec- tum is wanting, he also accounts for the little blood shed in the operation, not amounting to a tea-spoonful. M. Roux thinks that the elliptic muscles of the sphincter and levatores ani, which receive their nutrient arteries from the ischiatic, are never wanting; and hence, that their utility in the act of defecation, should not only be calculated upon, but secured, by conducting the dissection in such a manner as to free their internal border : the artificial anus being thus established in the line, by which they are naturally separated, their liberty of action is preserved. Fig. 106. Fig. 106 represents an imaginary section of the pelvis to explain the imperforations of the anus and urethra as they were supposed to exist in M. Roux dr. BrignolWs case: a a, the interior of the bladder; bb, section of the prostate; c, the vcsicula seminales; d, the vas deferens ; e e, the interior of the rectum ; f supposed termination of the rectum in front of the neck of the bladder; g, the penis ; h, the opening of the meatus; i, bulb of the urethra ; k, root of the right corpus ca- vernosum ; l, section of the pubis; m, space between the pubis and bladder; n, the urachus ; o, tint muscles of the abdomen; p, the skin; q, r, the peritoneum lining the cainty of the abdomen ; s s, sacrum; t t, the incision in the perineum; n, the bistoury, its point in the rectum. This operation, performed 15th May, 1833, 12