ERYSIPELAS. 143 In some rare cases the irritability of the parts is so great, that plugging in no form can be borne. Under such circumstances, we must trust to general remedies and cold affu- sion. Dr. Darwin relates a case in which the latter means was successful, where it was im- possible to plug. Cases, however, in which the instrument of M. Martin cannot be used, must be excessively rare. The after treatment will consist in the em- ployment of means calculated to remove the causes on which the bleeding depended ; pur- gatives, abstinence, and regular exercise, in the one form ; generous diet, cheerful occu- pation, iron, acids, and aromatic bitters, in the other. When it is symptomatic of other dis- eases, the great object is to remove the disease on which the discharge depends. (Thomas Spencer Wells.') EPISTHOTONOS. See Tetanus. EPULIS, from nri upon, and ovXov the gum. Syn. Odontia excrescens sarcoma epulis, Lat.; Zahnfieischschwamm, Ger. This word has been applied to almost every kind of tumour upon the gum, from whatever cause it may originate, and whatever charac- ter it may assume. Hence, in the definitions which are given of it by writers, we are told by one that it is sometimes attached by a small pedicle, and by another that it some- times becomes cancerous. The fact appears to be, that sufficient discrimination has not been employed respecting the various appear- ances of tumours on the gums ; and the term Epulis, especially, as it does not convey any definite idea, had better be dispensed with. The tumours which have been thus con- founded together, probably all arise from diseased teeth, and differ from each other according to the existing state of the consti- tution, and other accidental circumstances. There is, however, no doubt that a certain character of tumour is more frequently seen upon the gum than any other, and its charac- ter is that of a reddened but simple excres- cence, often smaller at the base, and having a thickened bulbous body. This, perhaps, comes nearer to the idea of the disease to which the name refers, but even this is the result, in probably all instances, of irritation produced by diseased teeth, or by dead roots of teeth existing in the alveoli; they will, therefore, be more particularly described when speaking of the diseases of the gums as connected with the teeth. When again it is said that epulis occasion- ally becomes cancerous, the observation is lia- ble to the same objection of vagueness ; for in particular states of the constitution, and with an original tendency to that disease, an ex- citing cause alone is required to set up the specific action in any part; and in the gums, as every surgeon has observed, the irritation occasioned by diseased or dead teeth may produce this or any other form of malignant disease. (Thomas Bell.) ERINE. Erigne, Fr.; uncus, Lat. A hook. The instrument known to surgeons under this name consists of two blades, with crook or crotchet extremities. It i3 used in extirpating parts which could not be held firmly by the fingers, such as the enlarged tonsils. (See Tenaculum.) ERRHINE. — A substance which, when applied to the mucous membrane of the nose, excites sneezing, and an increased secretion of mucus. ERYSIPELAS, epvtnrrtXag, from epvw, rrtXag, indicating its tendency to extend to the adjoining cuticle, or, according to others, from ipvQpog, expressive of one of its princi- pal characters, redness. To this affection are referable the diseases obscurely described under various denominations, ignis sacer, ignis sancti Antonii, rosa, aposthema maxime ig- neum, fyc. Definition.—Erysipelas is an irregularly cir- cumscribed yet diffused acute affection of the skin, presenting the four constituent charac- ters of inflammation, heat, redness, pain, and tumefaction, and generally accompanied with fever. Seat.—There is no portion of the surface of the body exempt from its attacks ; but the parts most subject to it are those that are habitually uncovered. It was perhaps on this account that the Romans, as Celsus informs us, were more frequently affected in the legs *. According to Dr. Hutchinson, the lower extremities are the parts generally at- tacked by this disease, among seamen, which he attributes to the frequent immersion of their legs in salt water, and the subsequent irritation produced by the friction of their course net trowsers 2. Joseph Frank justly signalizes the frequency of erysipelas in old age and in broken down constitutions 3. At the present day, as well as in the time of Syden- ham 4, the head is the most common seat of the disease, and Chomel says that it is twenty times more frequent on the head than on all the rest of the body 5. Erysipelas of the face is more frequent than that of the scalp ; and, according to Louis, it is more frequent on the right that on the left side. Erysipelas rarely remains limited to the seat it first occupies, in which case it is termed stationary, but extends gradually on one or more sides to the contiguous cuticle under the name of vague or progressive erysipelas. It may thus extend over the entire peri- phery 6. Lamotte mentions the case of a child attacked with erysipelas of the scalp, 1 De Medicina, lib v. cap. xxviii. 2 Medico-chirurg. Transact, of London, vol. v. p. 279. 3 Prax. Med. universa Prsecepta. F,dit. 2d. vol. iii. cap. vi. ■> Op. universa, sect. vi. cap. vi. 3 Dictionnaire de Med. 2e edit. Article Erysipele. 3 Rennes, Archives Generales de Med. Tome xiv. p. 533.