CATARACT. 710 and it is most visible when the lens or its cap- sule has become opaque. Cataracts have sotnetimes been classified according to their physical properties, viz. their consistence, size, and colour ; circum- stances which it is highly important to attend to in the diagnosis and treatment of this dis- ease. Upon these we have already expatiated at sufficient length. (h) Congenital Cataract.—The term con- genital cataract is used to denote simply the date of the disease. The nature and appear- ances of such cataracts being similar to others which may have arisen from injuries or come on spontaneously. $ 3. Duration and Development of Cataract. The development of cataract is sometimes sudden, but it is more commonly slow and gradual. According to the imperfect or com- plete degree of the opacity, cataracts have been called ripe or unripe, mature or immature, for operation. Those being denominated un- ripe in w'hich the opacity is not complete, and some degree of useful vision still remains. Those on the other hand have been called ripe when the opacity has become so complete that it is not susceptible of becoming greater, and has deprived the patient of useful vision. After cataract has lormed, it may continue to exist, and remain stationary in the eye for a long series of years, whether the opacity is partial or complete, and whatever may be the degree of the opacity. More commonly, how- ever, cataract does not become stationary till the opacity has attained its most complete form, gradually becoming more and more opaque. “ Cataract is usually developed slowly, re- quiring some weeks, months, or years, for its complete formation ; it may, however, come on quickly within a few hours. It seldom destroys sight completely, even in its perfect development. In many forms of cataract, a considerable degree of vision remains, and in the worst cases the patients can distinguish light from darkness if the retina be sound1.” Cataract from an injury generally takes place very soon after the infliction. § 4. Causes of Cataract. Cataract is a disease which takes place from injuries of the crystalline lens or capsule. It is sometimes a congenital affection, but the most common form of it is that which takes place spontaneously. When it arises from an injury, it is usually confined to the eye in- jured ; but, in the other cases, both eyes are commonly affected. Injuries of the eye occasion cataract by the lens being either wounded, and acted upon by the aqueous humour, or by being detached from its vascular connexions, by which it loses its vitality 2; and this may happen either from penetrating wrounds or blows. 1 Lawrence, p. 397- a See Watson’s Compendium, 3rd ed. p. 310 ; also Med. Surg. Journ. vol. xxvi. In most cases of spontaneous cataract, there are no symptoms indicating either unusual determination of blood to the eye, or of in- flammation of the organ. In some cases, how- ever, signs of plethora, both general and local, do exist during the formation of cataract; but whether the cataract is the consequence of inflammation, or merely happens as an acci- dental conjunction, it is not easy to say. We see so many instances of cataract without any signs of inflammatory action, that although it may be increased by this state, the cataract certainly does not depend upon it. “ In many cases of cataract the direct cause of that par- ticular change in the lens is unknown ; neither do we know that any peculiar state of consti- tution is favourable to its development1.” Several predisposing circumstances have been observed to occur in cases of cataract. These, however, apply to the spontaneous cataracts of advanced life. 1. Old age. In which the lens always assumes an amber co- lour, which gives it a slight cataractous appear- ance. 2. Hereditary tendency. Cataract, like many other diseases of the eye, sometimes takes place in different members of the same family, and descends to their posterity, who become affected about the same period of life. 3. Exposure of the eyes to strong heat. Indivi- duals who work much over strong fires, such as cooks, glass-blow'ers, blacksmiths, &c., are certainly more subject to this disease than others. 4. Great exertion of the eyes by candle, gas, or lamp light has appeared to me to predispose to cataract. $ 5. State of the Iris and Pupil in Cataract. In the early and imperfect stages of cata- ract, the iris and pupil continue in their natu- ral state. They contract and dilate according to the degrees of light to which the eye is exposed. But when the cataract becomes more dense and more complete, less light being admitted into the retina, the pupil ap- pears to be more dilated than that of a person whose eye is in a sound state ; but in some cases it is more contracted. Its motions, how- ever, continue unimpaired, provided the iris is not pressed upon by the cataract, and the other parts of the eye are in a sound state. A black ring or shadow is also generally ob- served around the margin of the pupil. In many cases this black ring is owing to the margin of the iris being of a dark colour, in addition to the space between the iris and lens. The size and form of the pupil, together with the motions of the iris, are so much altered and affected in cases of cataract, com- plicated with other diseases of the eye, that they afford important indications as to the sound or unsound state of the organ. When the pupil is much dilated, either by the obscurity of the light to which the eye is ’ Lawrence, p. 411.