ABORTION. JO expelled covered with the membranes, but the placenta remains behind and gives rise to tedious and sometimes fatal haemorrhage. In some of these cases, transfusion alone can pre- serve life. I may here remark, that the great difficulty in treating abortions during the first six months of pregnancy arises from the im- practicability of any manual operation, for the removal of the placenta. In such cases, the secale cornutum will often excite the uterus and cause it to expel the placenta. If this medicine fail, the vagina ought to be plugged tightly, and by this means the haemorrhage will be arrested. When there is great pro- stration of the vital powers, nutritious aliment and cordials will be necessary. Mr. Ingleby relates three cases of abortion at the second month, and one at the fourth month, in which the haemorrhage proved fatal. In one of the three, the patient died before any part of the ovum was expelled from the uterus. Another died from haemorrhage at the seventh day after the expulsion of the ovum. In the case at the fourth month, the foetus was expelled, but the placenta did not separate. He cor- rectly remarks, that such fatal results are un- usual at those early periods. (Treatise on Ute- rine Hcemorrhage, 1832.) A lady of title died lately of haemorrhage in the early months. Prognosis of Abortion.— Hippocrates observed that abortion, or premature labour, was more dangerous than natural parturition. The first is a disease, the second the performance of a natural function. It does not, however, always follow, that abortions are dangerous. Much will depend upon the period at which they occur, on the causes which produce them, and on the symptoms and diseases which accom- pany them. As a general proposition, it may be stated, that the earlier the abortion, the greater the danger to the woman, more espe- cially between the second and fifth month of pregnancy, the hemorrhage is more abundant, and the foetus and its appendages are expelled with more difficulty than from the fifth to the end of the ninth month. In the former cases, the uterus is not sufficiently developed to ad- mit the introduction of the hand to extract the placenta. Nevertheless, there are some eminent obstetricians who maintain, that the danger is greatest in proportion as the preg- nancy is more advanced. (Desormeau, Diet, de Med., Art. Avortement. Velpeau, Traite Complet d’Acch. Copland, Dictionary of Prac- tical Medicine, It is also a received opinion, that abortion produced by accidental causes, is more dangerous than when it is effected by predisposing causes, and especially when the cause acts with violence and sudden- ness on a woman who is not predisposed. Again, abortion is most dangerous when pro- voked by medicines or mechanical means. In such cases, the woman is generally destroyed by haemorrhage, metritis, enteritis, or perito- nitis. When abortion occurs spontaneously, and without any evident cause, or from diseases of the ovum, it is accomplished with little pain or difficulty, and may not be fol- lowed by any unfavourable symptoms ; but it is very liable to recur; and frequent recurrences are succeeded by numerous diseases, such as deranged menstruation, chronic metritis, or- ganic diseases of the uterus, leucorrhcea, hys- teria, dyspepsia, cachexia, phthisis, and lesions of organs already predisposed to disease. The chief sources of danger, however, in connex- ion with abortion, are the haemorrhage that accompanies it, the prostration of strength which follows it, and the diseases which are excited in predisposed organs. When abor- tion is accompanied by convulsions, or when it occurs during the progress of fever, small- pox, scarlatina, measles, erysipelas, or visceral inflammation, the prognosis is very unfavour- able; and the woman frequently dies. When it is excited by mechanical means, it may be suc- ceeded by inflammation of the uterus, which will endanger the life of the woman, or cause adhesions between the parietes of the uterus and the fimbriated extremities of the uterine tubes, and thus induce incurable sterility; or gan- grene may ensue, and cause death. A few years since, a healthy young woman, in the third month of pregnancy, had a tumour removed from her breast in St. Bartholomew’s Hospi- tal. She aborted immediately after the ope- ration, and died on the following day of peri- tonitis. It has long been received as an axiom in obstetrics, that surgical operations ought not to be performed during pregnancy or lac- tation, unless for some disease which threatens the immediate destruction of life. When the neck of the uterus is soft and relaxed, while the rest of the organ preserves its normal density, abortion takes place more readily, and with less danger than in the con- trary condition of the parts. If it is produced by a well-marked moUmen, and without any morbid complications, it may terminate as favourably as natural parturition; but it is to be remembered that this haemorrhagic effort is often the first stage of inflammation, and when attended with fever, we have to fear metritis or peritonitis: if they should arise, the prognosis, as already stated, is very un- favourable. Some authors (James and Mauriceau) con- sider abortion beneficial to health, by esta- blishing the regularity of menstruation, and inducing fecundity. Hippocrates himself was of opinion, that if it occurred sixty days after conception in a woman whose menstruation had been usually deranged, the evacuation would become regular. Mauriceau stated, that women who had been sterile for many years, in consequence of suppressed menstrua- tion, became fecund after abortion. But the occurrence of abortion in such a case was posi- tive proof that the woman was not sterile. There is, perhaps, but one case in which abortion is favourable to reproduction; and that is, when the cavity of the uterus is too small, and the tissue of the organ too dense, to allow sufficient dilatation of the former, for the developement of the ovum. In such a case, the first abortion would diminish the