181 AMPUTATION. HIP-JOINT. If the danger attending an amputation, be cceteris paribus in proportion to the volume of the parts through which the section is made, then is the amputation of the thigh at the hip-joint the most formidable that can be per- formed, buried as that joint is to a considera- ble depth, and surrounded on all sides by such a large mass of soft parts. These considera- tions very naturally deterred surgeons from attempting such an extensive mutilation, and it was only as the art made progress, and the principles on which success mainly depends became better understood, that the proposal for amputating at the hip-joint began to be entertained as a rational undertaking. Mo- rand, it would appear, was the first who ven- tured to express an opinion on the possibility of its success ; an opinion which was brought formally under the notice of the Academy of Surgery by two of his pupils, Wolher, a sur- geon in the guards of the king of Denmark, and Pacthod of Nyon in Switzerland, in the year 1739. The Academy in the following year received a favourable report on the Memoir of these surgeons, drawn up by Ledran and Guerin. Encouraged by the dis- cussion, Ravaton was on the point of putting the proposed plan in execution, in a case of fracture of the great trochanter and neck of the femur from a gun-shot, and was only driven from his determination, by the adverse opinions of the surgeons with whom he con- sulted on the occasion. Lalowette made it the subject of a thesis, which was defended by Vallum in 1748. The subject seeming to several of the members of the Academy to be entitled to further investigation, it was made a prize question at the instance of Morand in 1756, and again in 1759. None of the essays on the first occasion were found worthy of the prize, which, on the second, was awarded to Barbet, who forcibly advocated the pro- priety of the operation, and pointed out the cases to which he considered it rationally ap- plicable. The question was propounded by the Aca- demy in the following terms“ In the case in which amputation at the hip-joint should appear to be the only resource for saving the patient’s life, to determine whether this operation ought to be practised, and what would be the best mode of performing it." Thirty-four essays were presented, including Barbet’s, almost all of which, besides several ether dissertations on the same subject, by Goursault, Moublet, and others, maintained the practicability of the ope- ration, from experiments on the dead sub- ject, or on dogs. Notwithstanding the great encouragement thus held out, no one was bold enough to un- dertake the operation for a considerable time afterwards. True it is, however, that some cases had occurred in which gangrene having first made extensive ravages round the joint, the disarticulation of the thigh bone had been artificially effected ; but this process, though it might be regarded as an encouragement, could not be taken in any sense as the equiva- lent of the amputation at the hip-joint, strictly so called. Familiar as the discussions of the Academy must have made the minds of the French sur- geons with the subject, it seems not a little curious that the first case in which it was per- formed is recorded of an English surgeon, Mr. H. Thomson, surgeon to the London Hospi- tal. Pott was strongly opposed to the ope- ration, and censures, in the following pas- sage, its performance in the case which he had himself witnessed :—“ That the amputa- tion in the joint of the hip is not an imprac- ticable operation (although it be a dreadful one) I very well know. I cannot say that I have ever done it, but I have seen it done, and am now very sure I shall never do it, unless it be on a dead body. The parallel which is drawn between this operation and that in the shoulder will not hold. In the latter, it some- times happens, that the caries is confined to the head of the os humeri, and that the sca- pula is perfectly sound. In the case of a carious hip-joint this is never the fact ; the acetabulum and parts about are always, more or less, in the same state, or at least in a dis- tempered one, and so indeed most frequently are the parts within the pelvis.” Mention of the second instance, in which it was put in execution in this country, occurs in the sixth volume of Duncan’s Medical Commentaries, published in 1779. The operation was per- formed by Kerr, of Northampton, on a girl between eleven and twelve years of age. It would appear from Pott’s censure on the first case, and from the description of Kerr’s case, that in both these instances, the operation was resorted to for disease of the joint. The re- sult in both cases was of course unfortunate, as the removal of the limb could have no effect in arresting the progress of the disease. In Kerr’s case, the acetabulum and surround- ing part of the os innominatum were carious, and there was extensive tuberculization of the lungs. It was soon perceived that the analogy between amputating for scrofulous disease of the knee-joint in the continuity of the thigh, and disarticulating the head of the femur from a diseased acetabulum did not hold good. In most of the subsequent attempts, therefore, the operation was restricted to the cases in which Barbet had described it to be applica- ble, viz.: Where by sudden violence, as from gun-shot wounds, or crushing by machinery, a healthy bone is extensively injured at its head, neck, or upper part; where the limb is carried away by a cannon-shot close to the trunk; or where gangrene has so far extended, or threatens to extend, its ravages, as to ren- der it impossible to obtain a sufficient cover- ing for the stump by any other means. To these, as the principal cases in which this amputation is likely to be attended with a