581 CALCULUS, may almost choose his residence where he pleases, provided it be but airy and healthful. I Nay, immense benefit is often derived from a ] course of pure water, or at least of water the saline impregnation of which is very trifling, and cannot have any chemical influence upon the matter of which calculous concretions are formed. Instead of the alkalis, the alkaline earths, as they used to be designated, lime and magnesia, arc sometimes advantageously prescribed in gravelly complaints. Occasionally these sub- stances have even seemed to prove more bene- ficial than the bicarbonates ot potash and soda. But the efficacy of lime, especially in many j cases of gravel, may, we feel persuaded, be j generally ascribed to the state of great dilution in which it is necessarily taken. Equal parts 1 of lime-water and rennet whey form an excel- lent diluent in these cases. A very elegant mode of administering magnesia, is to pre- scribe it held in solution in water by an excess of carbonic acid. The same means is applicable to lime also. Two, three, or four i pints of this super-carbonated magnesian or lime-water may be taken in the course ot the ! day with excellent effect. IV.—To attempt the expulsion and disin- tegration or solution of the grit or concretions of lithic acid already formed.—This is an all-im- portant indication. Whoever, with his urine habitually depositing a sediment, experiences a certain amount of uneasiness in the region of the kidneys, especially if he observes a few gritty particles voided from his bladder, should immediately take alarm, and by all means make sure that no crystal remains behind to serve as a nucleus for future deposition. The use of mild diluents, which may be made the vehicles of the alkaline carbonates, is here of the first necessity ; and this, with attention to the state of the functions generally, to the regulation of the diet, &c., will often be suffi- cient. But if pain in the lumbar region con- tinue unabated,and febrile symptoms be lighted up, it may be necessary to abstract blood from the arm, or by cupping-glasses from the seat of the pain, to make use of the warm bath, and especially of the hot air bath, and to purge the bowels freely with calomel, and the senna draught with crystals of tartar. There are certain medicines, too, which seem occasion- ally to have a kind of specific effect in expel- ling gravel with the urine ; these are the balsams and turpentines. A full dose of the Dutch drops, i. e., essential oil of turpentine, has often been followed by a kind of explosion of gravel from the kidneys, and complete relief of the pain and uneasiness that had for some time been endured. This popular remedy may be tried with advantage in some cases. Should the symptoms indicate that a con- cretion is engaged in the ureter, these means will all be proper. In case the pain is not very severe, or when it has been mitigated by general remedies, and there is no longer any tinge of blood in the urine, we may sometimes venture to prescribe an emetic of ipecacuanha, so as to produce full vomiting; or to recom- mend motion on foot, or in a carriage on a rough pavement. The powerful action of the abdominal muscles induced by the one, and the succussions encountered in the other, have occasionally been found efficient in promoting the onward progress of the concretion ; some persons, indeed, have lived in ignorance that they were affected with renal calculus, until a rough shake from an accident has dislodged it, and procured its expulsion. These mea- sures, however, are to be recommended and resorted to with great caution. The passage of a calculus along the ureter is generally a very painful process, and one that is always accompanied with a certain degree of hazard ; the concretion may become impacted in the ureter, completely close up its canal, and so interfere directly and by sympathy with the function of the kidney, an event of all others the most to be deprecated. It is better to wait the tardy processes of nature, assisting her by means of low diet, the local abstraction of blood, topical fomentations, the warm and hot air bath, saline aperients, and the free use of diluents. In the majority of cases, after the lapse of twenty-four, thirty-six, or forty-eight hours, the febrile symptoms abate, the urine flows freely, and brings away either a quantity of gritty particles or one or more concretions of larger size, to the complete relief of the patient. But granting a concretion formed, it does not necessarily remain lodged in the urinary passages, merely because we have not had ocular demonstration of its expulsion. We do unquestionably sometimes succeed, whatever may have been said to the contrary, in anni- hilating them in their seat, a fact in support of which several cases might be adduced. Renal Calculi of the Oxalate of Lime.— Should we have evidence that the oxalic dia- thesis is the one which is present along with symptoms of renal calculus, should we at any time detect an amorphous sediment of oxalate of lime among pulverulent sediments of lithic acid, and especially should the attack of ne- phritic colic supervene unexpectedly and with- out any precursory evidences of a deranged state of the urinary secretion, the urine never having been remarked as otherwise than clear, and to all outward appearance healthy, there will be strong reasons for concluding that the oxalate of lime is the matter deposited in the pelvis of the kidney. Under these circumstances the treatment need not vary from that recommended under the existence of the lithic acid diathesis. There is always something of the same hypersthenic condition of the system, though probably this is less marked than in the lithic state. Until the fit of gravel has occurred, too, there is generally less of febrile excitement under the oxalic than under the lithic diathesis. The constitutional treatment then may be of the kind just recommended. The antiphlogistic regimen must be enforced ; the bowels freely purged ; saline medicines prescribed, the warm