9 EAR, AND HEARING, DISEASES OF. time he wrote, he believed the patient re- mained sound. Among other diseases, some- times mistaken for cancer, Mr. Travers men- tions crustaceous herpes, and an affection re- sembling elephantiasis. Such a mistake has been made by Kramer 1 in describing “ scir- rhous degeneration of the auricle.” Hypertrophy of the auricle.—Boyer2 saw the lobe of the ear in a young man so large that it reached to the cheek. He cut the superabundant part away, the wound healed, and the deformity was removed. Dr. Graves mentions a case 3 of gradual elongation of the ears. The subject of it, a young gentleman, died dropsical. On dissection, the liver was found in a state of fatty degeneration, and the hypertrophy of the lobes of the ears owing to an increased deposition of fat4. Mr. Campbell5 6 tells us that in the district of Nepaul in India, the auricle is frequently the seat of firm fleshy enlargements, and that this state generally co-exists with goitre. Ncevus viaternus and aneurism by anastomoses of the auricle.—The auricle, especially the lobe of it, is occasionally observed to be the seat of that form of naevus called mole, in which a circumscribed part of the skin is thickened, of a brown colour, and covered with hair. A case of aneurism by anastomoses of the auri- cle occurred to Dupuytren °. The subject was a young man twenty years old. The dis- ease had developed itself from two small red congenital spots in the exterior fold of the right auricle. The development had com- menced about his twelfth year, and had been increasing since. Hemorrhage had occurred at different times, and some of the arteries leading into the diseased part had been tied before Dupuytren saw him. The surrounding skin of the head was involved. On his en- trance into the Hotel-Dieu, the ear was much larger than that of the opposite side, and of a deep red violet colour. Pulsation could be felt in it at several points. Dupuytren tied the common carotid artery, but with little success. It would be out of place here to mention the various methods of treating naevus or aneurism by anastomoses, which have been 1 Die Erkenntniss und Heilung der Ohrcnkrank- lieitcn, p. 107. Berlin, 1830; or Dr. Bennett’s trans- lation, London, 1838. 2 Traite des Maladies Chirurgicales, tome vi. p. 3. Paris, 1822. 3 Lond. Med. Gaz. vol. xx. p. 210. 4 In tlie same clinical lecture, Dr. Graves mentions tlic case of a gentleman, the lobe of whose ear is some- times attacked suddenly by gouty congestion accom- panied by agonising pain, but which never lasts more than a few hours. 5 Transactions of the Medical and Physical Society of Calcutta, vol. xi- Calcutta, 1833. 6 Observation sur une ligature de l’Arterc Carotide primitive, dans un cas de dilatation anevrismatique des artcres de l’orcille, de la tempo, de l’oceiput, ct de production de tissu erectile. Read first at the Institute, June 6th, 1825, and published in Breschet’s Reper- toire General d’Anatomio et de Physiologic, patho- logique, et de clinique chirurgicale, tome vi. p. 231, plate iii. Paris, 1828. adopted ; it is sufficient to remark, in regard to the case above related, how easily the two small red congenital spots on the auricle might, if taken in time, have been obliterated or re- moved by any of the more simple methods. Tumours in the auricle.—The sebaceous fol- licles frequently' inflame and become enlarged from accumulated secretion. Considerable irritation attends such a state, which, however, gradually subsides after evacuation of the ac- cumulated matter. Small encysted and stea- tomatous tumours form under the skin. Dr. Lincke 1 mentions that he saw, in a man in whom the auricles on both sides were much thickened and deformed from the small pox, an encysted tumour the size of a hazel nut, in the upper part of the navicular fossa. Injuries and diseases of the auditory passage. Closure of the auditory passage.—Congenital imperforation of the auditory passage may be complete throughout or only partial. Henkel 2 in attempting to pierce an imperforate audi- tory passage found it quite solid. Partial clo- sure may be by an extension of the skin over the mouth of the passage, or, according to the testimony of authors, by a membranous sep- tum at a greater or less depth, before the mem- brana tympani. In a case in which occlusion of the mouth of the auditory passage existed at birth, a very small aperture appeared, at the age of three months, in the spot where the entrance of the passage should have been on the right side, and in two months after on the left. The apertures gradually enlarged, until the mouth of the auditory passages as- sumed the natural size 3. Sometimes, but rarely, obliteration of the auditory passage takes place from disease. Thus in caries of the osseous part of the pas- sage, exfoliation having perhaps taken place, the ulcerated parts begin to heal; but as in such cases elsewhere, distortion, contraction, and unnatural adhesion of the soft parts su- pervene ; and this may be so great as to pro- duce obliteration of the passage to a greater or less extent. The opening up of a new passage in cases of complete congenital imperforation or ac- quired obliteration, supposing the mere ope- ration itself to be successful, is not likely to be followed by much improvement in hearing; in the former case, other parts of the organ are, in all probability, imperfectly formed, and in the latter, the disease which produced the obliteration has not left other parts of the ear intact. Still, supposing a new passage success- fully formed, it will be very far from possessing the various attributes of the natural auditory passage, so necessary for the conveyance of sound. But experience has shown, that though a new passage may be opened up by operation in some cases, there is a constant tendency in the parts to grow together again. 1 Das Geliororgan, &c. Leipzig, 1837, p. 620. 2 Neue medicinische und chirurgische Anmerkun- gen. Berlin, 1719. Samml. i. p. 11. 3 Dr. C. Lowdcn, quoted from Glasgow Journal in Lond. Med. Gaz. vol. iii. p. 781.