AMAUROSIS. 87 to a black or very dark ground ; as to a black paling, a black or dark dress, &c. On making an effort to fix them on a light ground, they sometimes enlarge, or fresh ones appear; but the previous state is resumed as soon as the effort ceases. I often regret that I have not preserved the numerous diagrams of these appearances which have been brought to me at different times by patients. They would have formed a curious collection; and demon- strated the infinite varieties of figure assumed by these ophthalmic muscse. Again, the function of the retina is very often disturbed in the following manner :— After the eyes have been engaged for some time on minute objects, the patient experiences a degree of confusion,—the objects becoming partly or wholly obscured by a network, or mist; but, after resting the eyes for a few moments, and rubbing or pressing them slightly, the vision again becomes distinct; this occurs again and again ; the disturbance is excited more readily and more rapidly the more the vision is exerted, and a longer period of rest is required for the subsidence of the effect. After some time any attempt to view minute objects reinduces the obscurity, and, eventu- ally, the vision remains cloudy or dull, as if a piece of gauze, or a thick veil intervened be- tween the eye and the objects regarded. This disturbance is frequently preceded or accompanied by muscae, and is usually at- tended by a sense of fulness in the organs, and a weight or uneasiness about the forehead. Whilst the sight remains good for all ordi- nary purposes, requiring but little exertion of the eyes, the term impaired vision is em- ployed to denote this affection, at the London Ophthalmic Hospital, to distinguish it from the condition of constant imperfection in the more confirmed amaurotic disease. Usually some degree or form of the func- tional disturbances which I have described precedes organic change in the choroid, al- though sometimes to a very trivial extent. The commencement of organic change is indicated by some of the above-described symptoms becoming permanent,—as perma- nent and fixed muscae, or a continual appear- ance of network or cloud which obscures vision. This network or cloud does not, however, always occupy the entire field of vision, but is often spread over only a small portion or portions of the space. Most fre- quently it is as a piece of gauze,—less fre- quently as a cloud or mist; and some few patients have described the imperfection to me, as if produced from an irregular spot or spots, made by smearing the object regarded with Indian ink or sepia. Whenever these spots are of such magni- tude as to occupy an eighth, or tenth, or more of the field of vision, the entire field is usually somewhat obscure, or soon becomes so. Any of the above-described symptoms may exist for weeks, months, or years, with little augmentation ; though, in most instances, a gradual increase takes place ; but frequently a sudden acute attack supervenes, and the vision is perfectly obscured in a few minutes. The symptoms are aggravated by sudden emotion, anxiety, bad condition of stomach, or whatever tends to disturb the circulation. Aj>pearances.—When the simple functional derangement exists in the form of muscae volitantes, or in that of impaired vision, there is rarely any marked change in the characters of the different textures of the eye or eyes ; under the last-named affection the pupil is sometimes unusually contracted, and the iris inactive; but as soon as the vision is per- manently affected by a network or web, the pupil becomes sometimes rather dilated, but subsequently again contracts, when inflamma- tory action is set up. When organic change has commenced, the iris becomes dull, altered in colour,.—its pupil- lary margin thick, irregular, and partially ad- herent to the anterior capsule of the lens, whilst a few large and tortuous vessels appear in the conjunctiva. When the disease has been very slow in progress, the vessels of the sclerotic do not appear injected with red blood even when the amaurosis is complete,— but most frequently its vessels become ap- parent, close upon the margin of the cornea, occupying a part or the entire of its circum- ference ; they are of a dirty brick-dust colour. Eventually, the changes which I have de- scribed as consequent upon the acute disease, take place, and capsular cataract, with syne- chia, or staphyloma sclerotic® may exist. Be- fore the sclerotic coat gives way, it has a bluish appearance, and the globe feels hard and inelastic. Occasionally the disease extends to the deeper seated tunic and humours, absorption takes place, and the globe becomes soft and flaccid. Within a few months just subsequent to the universally-lamented death of Her Royal Highness the Princess Charlotte, I had ample opportunity of witnessing and tracing the effects of choroidal congestion and inflamma- tion. At the period above-mentioned, all persons were anxious to evince their feelings of sor- row' and respect, by assuming as early as pos- sible the conventional garb of grief; and con- sequently, an unusual quantity of work de- volved on all those engaged in dress-making. It would answer no good purpose to detail here the excessive cruelty which mercenary considerations induced many of the dress- makers, &c., to exercise over their dependents and apprentices, and which led to imper- fection of vision in many, and entire loss of the blessed function of sight in several of those poor and tender beings. Of the great number of patients who came under my observation at the Eye Infirmary, and elsewhere, in consequence of disturbance or loss of vision from the cause above men- tioned, the majority were affected with muscae in various degrees, or impaired vision; in