188 FISTULA. been indurated and altered by the continued irritation. The method by incision is now the only one resorted to, if we except now and then an instance, where, from dread of the knife, the patient demands the treatment by ligature. Previously to undergoing the operation, the patient should be prepared by proper regimen for a sufficient time beforehand. An aperient should be administered the night before, and an hour or two before the opera- tion, the intestine should be washed out with an enema of tepid water. The instruments required are a bistoury, a flexible silver director, forceps, a wooden gorget, tenaculum, ligatures, meches of lint, compresses, bandage, &c. Much fancy and ingenuity has been displayed in the shape of the bistoury employed for the division of a fistula in the anus. Pott’s knife, which is a curved probe-pointed knife with a narrow blade, and Savigny’s modification of the same knife, which consisted in the adjustment to one of its sides of a thin pointed blade, capa- ble of being projected or withdrawn at will, have enjoyed much favour. Dorsey’s cone- pointed knife has been also much used. Some have preferred a thin-bladed bistoury cache. Larrey makes use of a long straight knife, terminated by a long flexible probe, which is passed into the fistulous track until the cut- ting point of the knife reaches the intestine, when the probe portion is bent, and the fistula is laid open to the gut at a single stroke. In Charriere’s bistoury, the back is grooved like a director, but a small bridge of steel is left across the groove, a little way below the point. The probe being passed through the fistula until its blunt point reaches the cavity of the intestine, its outer end is passed under the bridge on the back of the bistoury, and its edge is thus guided until it reaches the wooden gorget placed in the anus; the opera- tion is then terminated by dividing the parts included between the edge of the knife and the gorget. The common straight bistoury is now, however, very generally preferred. The patient is placed on the edge of a bed or table, before a good light, reclining on the side on which the fistula is situated, with the leg of that side stretched, the other mode- rately bent on the trunk. The head is kept low, and the pelvis bent towards it. Assist- ants preserve this position. The gorget being now oiled, and introduced into the rectum with its cavity towards the fistula, it is con- fided to an assistant, and the director is passed into the fistulous track, until its point comes into contact with the gorget. These steps may be taken inversely to the order just de- scribed, the director being introduced first, and the gorget afterwards. Some surgeons do not use the gorget at all, and it may be well dispensed with, especially in cases where the internal orifice can be easily brought into view by a little bearing down on the part of the patient. When the syringotome, or any similar knife with long probe point and cut- ting edge to follow, is employed, both the director and gorget may be dispensed with, as the operator in this case uses his finger as a gorget, to bend the probe end of the knife down to the anus, and then withdrawing both knife and finger in cutting outwards. This plan is also pursued with the common straight bistoury. If a probe should be employed first, as soon as its head is felt within the intestine, it is withdrawn, and the director is then intro- duced. Sometimes, however, the probe and director are combined in the same instru- ment. The finger meeting its end in the rectum, bends it down until it comes out, or at least is seen by the anu3, while the right hand is at the same time advancing it. The knife is then directed along the groove of the director, and the fistula is thus laid open to the gut from end to end. Any other tracks that may exist are treated in the same way. When the internal orifice is situated high up, there will be such difficulty in bending the director downwards, that recourse must be had to the wooden gorget. This instru- ment is provided at its upper end with holes, or a piece of cork-wood, in which the point of the bistoury finds a steady rest, after pass- ing through the fistula. When it has attained this point, the surgeon takes the gorget, and fixing it steadily, he presses the edge of the knife against it, and withdrawing the knife at the same time, divides the whole mass be- tween its edge and the gorget. The director and gorget are then withdrawn, their contact being steadily maintained all the time, to show that the division of the parts is com- plete. Some surgeons never use the wooden gorget at all, even where the internal aper- ture is placed high up, the finger answering every purpose for which the gorget is intend- ed, besides having the advantage over the latter of being a sensitive guide. Formerly great importance was attached to effect the division in the walls of the rectum, up to the highest point at which they might happen to be denuded. Experience has fully shown that this is not at all necessary. The important point is, that no burrow or resting- place shall be left for faecal matter, &c. to lodge, and that during cicatrization the parts shall be kept at rest. Free division effects the first object. The second can only be secured by the division of the sphincter muscle ; and if, therefore, the whole of its fibres lie between the fistula and the rectum, the whole must be divided. In ordinary cases, when the fistulous track passes through the sphincter itself, the division of the portion lying between it and the rectum will suffice. It will be best, however, in old cases of wide extent, with great induration, and numerous sinuses, to divide the whole sphincter. This practice is strongly recommended by Sir B. Brodie, who affirms that it interferes but little with the power of retaining the faeces, unless they should be liquid ; and this inconvenience, which after all is but temporary, is amply