281 ANEURISM. 5th July 1829, after having previously on the 2d June, attempted to effect the obliteration of the external iliac artery, by placing a liga- ture on the capillary side of the tumour. The patient survived the operation but a few hours. On examining after death, the iliac artery was found to be divided into two trunks, so that Brasdor’s plan was not fol- lowed as Mr. James had imagined; it had, however, produced a temporary diminution in the force of the pulsations ; and had this anomalous distribution been suspected, a se- cond ligature might perhaps have led to a different result. The aorta at various points of its course has been found obliterated. M. A. Severin speaks of a person in whom he found the aorta completely plugged up by a solid con- cretion, just below the emulgent arteries. Dr. Graham of Glasgow published in Med.- Chir. Transactions, an account of a case in which the aorta was found completely ob- structed just below the canalis arteriosus. Dr. Monro mentions an instance in which the aorta was obliterated by the remains of an old aneurism, just above the common iliacs. In the case already mentioned, as having been observed by Dr. Goodisson, the obliteration had extended from the aorta to the iliacs. Other examples of this obliteration have been observed by Mr. Crampton, Sir A. Cooper, Larrey, Mr. Key, &c. These obliterations having occurred without affecting the nourish- ment of the lower extremities, furnish an additional proof of the power of the anasto- moses to supply a sufficient circulation in place of that which had been obstructed. The spontaneous cure of aneurism of the abdo- minal aorta may therefore be accomplished, and should in all cases of this nature, be at- tempted by internal means, such as the exhi- bition of antimony, digitalis, low diet, general bleeding, &c., as well as by external applica- tions, such as cold, sanguisuction, compression, rest, &c. Bibliography.—Silvaticus, Tractatus de Aneu- rysmate. Vicence, 1595. Bartholin, Anatoniica An- enrysmatis Dissecti Historia. Palermo, 1644. Alberti, De Aneurysmate. Halle, 1725. Lancisi, De Mortibus Subitaneis; 1707: et de Motu Cordis et Aneurysmati- bus. Rome, 1728. Nichols, Observations on Aneur- isms in general. In Pbilos. Trans 1728. Monro, On the Coats of the Arteries, their Diseases, and particu- larly on the formation of Aneurism. Petit, Obs. Anat. et Path, au sujet de la Tumeur qu’on nomme Anevrysme : Acad, des Sciences. 1736. Thierry, Quscstio, &c. An tutior, faciborque vulgari detur Aneurysmatis Chirurgica Curatio ? Paris, 1749. Pe- tiat, De Aneurysmate. Montp. 1749. Arnaud, Some useful Observations on Aneurisms. London, 1750. Hunter, Wm. History of an Aneurism of the Aorta, with some Remarks on Aneurisms in general. In Med. Obs. London, 1755. Lambert, Account of a new Method of treating an Aneurism. Ibid. 1764. Else, Of Tumours formed by ruptured Veins, sometimes mistaken for Aneurisms Ibid. 1766. Guattani, His- toria; dues Aneurysmatum, quorum alterum in Brachio per Chirurgicam Operationcm sanatum, in Femore al- terum paucos intra dies lethale fuit. Rome, 1745. De Extends Aneurysmatibus manu chirurgi methodiee pertractandis. Ibid. 1772. Foubert, Memoire sur dif- ferentes especes d’Anevrysme faux: Mem. de l’Acad. White, Two Letters on the Varicose Aneurism, to W. Hunter. Med. Obs. 1771. Monro, D. Cases of An- eurism, with Remarks in Phys. Essays, 1771. He- raud, De Aneurysmatibus Extends. Montpellier, 1775. Penchienati, Recherches Anat. Path, sur les Anevrysmes des Arteres Crurale et Poplitee : Mem. de 1 Acad, de Turin. 1784. Idem. Sur les Ane- vrysmes des divisions et ramifications des Arteres de 1 Epaule et du Bras. Ibid. These Memoirs contain useful information respecting Anastomoses, and their power to supply the circulation, when it has been cut off in the main trunks.—Lauth, Scriptorum Latino- rum de Aneurysmatibus Collectio ; Lancisius, Guat- tani, Mai an i, Verbrugge, Weltinus, Murray, Trew, Asman, cum xv iconibus. Strasbourg, 1785. Testa, De Extemis Aneurysmatibus Epistolai. Flujanus, Nuovo Metode de Medicare alcune Malittie spettanti alia Chirurgia, &c. Roma, 1786. Brambilla, Disser- tatio de Aneurysmate venoso. Vienne, 1788. Home, An Account of Hunter’s Method of performing the Operation for the Cure of the Popliteal Aneurism, in Trans, of Med. Soc. 1793. Additional Cases to illustrate Hunter’s Method. Ibid; London, 1800. Desckamps, Observations sur la Ligature des princi- pals Arteres des Extremites, a la suite de leurs blessures, et dans les Anevrysmes. Paris, 1793. Bi- chat, Remarques et Obs. sur l’Operation de l’Ane- vrysme, in (Euvres Chir. de Dessault. Guerin, Me- moire sur 1’Anevrysme: Journal de Soc. Med. de Lyon. Rapport sur ce Memoire : Recueil Period, de Soc. de Sante de Paris. An. V. Sarrazin, Conside- rations sur les Causes generales de T Anevrysme, et de la Rupture spontanee des Vaisseaux sanguins arteriels. Desckamps and Maunoir, Reports, Letters, and Me- moirs in the Rec. Period. Desgranges and Deschamps, Examples of Popliteal Aneurism cured by Compres- sion. Ibid. Ayrer, Uber die Pulsadergeschwiilste und ihre Chirurgische Behandlung. Gotting. 1800. Piet, Essai sur l’emploi de la Compression consideree comme moven preparatoire a l’Operation de l’Anevrysme: Theses de Paris, An. IX. Maunoir, Diss. sur la Section de l’Artere entre deux Ligatures, dans l’Ope- ration de l’Anevrysme. Paris, An. XIII. Memoires Physiol, et Prat, sur 1’Anevrysme et la Ligature des Arteres. Geneve, 1802. Briot, Essai sur les Tumeurs formees par le Sang arteriel. Paris, 1802. Scarpa, Sull’ Aneurisma, Rifflessioni et Osservazioni, Anat. Cliirurgiche. Pavie, 1804. Translated into English by Wishart. Edin. 1808. Physiclc, Case of Aneurismal Varix. Philad. Med. Mus.‘l805. Freer, Obs. on An- eurism, and some Diseases of the Arterial System. Bir- mingham, 1807. Graefe, Angiectasie ein Beitrag zur rationellen Cur und Erkenntniss der Gefassausdeh- nungen. Leipzig, 1808. Abernethy, Surgical Obser- vations on the constitutional Origin and Treatment of Local Diseases, and on Aneurisms. London, 1809. Burns, Surg. Anat. of the Head and Neck. Edinb. 1809. Luca, J. C. Qusedam Observat. Anat. circa Nervos Arterias adeuntes, et comitantes. Francof. 1810. Ramsden, Cases of Aneurism, with Remarks. London, 1811. Cooper, A. Dissection of a Limb, on which the Operation of Popliteal Aneurism had been performed, in Med.-Chir. Trans, vol. ii. Pelletan, Memoires sur les Anevrysmes. Clinique Chir. Paris, 1810. Roux, Nouveaux Elemeus de Medecine Ope- ratoire. Paris, 1813. Extrait d’un Rapport fait par Bedard sur des Observations relatives a des Opera- tions d’Anevrysme, communiquees par Mirault d’An- gers. Bullet, de la Fac. de Med. Paris, 1813. Tra- vers, Observations upon the Ligature of Arteries, &c. with a Suggestion of a new Method of employing the Ligature in Cases of Aneurism: in Med.-Chirurg. Trans, iv. London, 1813. Two Cases of Aneurism in which the temporary Ligature was employed. Ibid, ix. London, 1818. Lawrence, A new Method of tying the Arteries in Aneurism, Amputation, &c. Ibid, 1814. Further Observations. Ibid, 1817. Hodg- son, A Treatise on the Diseases of Arteries and Veins, containing the Pathology and Treatment of Aneu- risms and wounded Arteries. London, 1815. Cramp- ton, An Account of a new Method of operating for