ARM, BEND OF. 364 by muscular contraction, which evidently takes place beneath them ; the blood sometimes does not jerk out by working the fingers; how is this explained ? Simply because the lancet has opened some vein which does not receive blood from the communicating vein. When the veins of the arm are small, and the surgeon finds difficulty in feeling them, we strongly recommend him to order his patient to “ work” his fingers forcibly ; this will dis- tend the veins with blood, and allow them to be better opened by the lancet. There are several interesting points regard- ing the situation of the veins of the arm worthy of the surgeon’s attention, and which are ge- nerally neglected. These large veins always pass over the front of this region ; are more or less concealed by fat, and lie under a superfi- cial fascia of cellular substance which some- times is pretty thick and always loosely con- nected to the aponeurotic membrane en- veloping the fore-part of the limb ; for this reason they are not strictly subcutaneous : M. Cruveilhier', however, conceives that the median basilic vein frequently forms an ex- ception to this rule, and that it “ lies in a great many subjects" immediately under the skin. There are likewise many precautions necessary in the operation of blood-letting, which are nearly connected with the relative anatomy of the veins. Among the most common accidents which follow blood-letting, we may safely place first, inflammation of the vein and the tissues around it ; this inflammation is frequently phlegmonous, and extends some distance above and below the elbow, and may end in suppur- ation. These accidents cannot often be traced to any negligence on the part of the surgeon ; too much care cannot, however, be observed, in closing the opening of the vein with fine linen or sticking plaister, so as to prevent any irritating friction upon the edges of the wound. Thrombus and ecchymosis are still of more fre- quent occurrence, but they scarcely merit notice. Surgeons formerly supposed that there was much danger to be apprehended from wound- ing the aponeurotic fascia of the arm and the tendon of the biceps muscle. They attributed many symptoms to such injuries which patho- logists now ascribe to the pricking or the di- viding of the nerves. It is therefore of im- portance to inquire whether there be any means of preventing those accidents. The nerves most liable to be punctured or divided in bleeding at the arm, are, the musculo-cuta- neus internus. the small twigs of Wrisberg’s intercostal nerve, which follows the basilic vein and loses itself in the integuments, the musculo-cutaneus externus, the median nerve, and the radial nerve. I have made repeated dissections of the nerves with a view of com- paring their relative situations with respect to the veins ; the result of these investigations is, that the internal musculo-cutaneous nerve is as irregular in its divisions as in its situation ; it sometimes passes in front, sometimes behind the veins, sometimes on their inside, some- times on their outside ; sometimes its branches run towards the middle or even to the outside of the arm, when it generally anastomoses with the external cutaneous nerves; sometimes no anastomoses take place between these two nerves until they reach the fore-arm >. Cam- per has given a very correct delineation of these nerves, which he does not make ana- stomose at the bend of the arm, and I am in- clined to consider this the most common dis- tribution. Neither does M. Lebaudy, in his plates, show any anastomoses between these nerves, which are about twice too large, al- though that author call his drawings “ de gran- deur naturelie." M. Velpeau2 represents no anastomosing branches, and places the cuta- neous nerve on the outside of the basilic vein; in his book, however, (page 420,) this nerve is described “ as being enclosed in the same sheath with the basilic vein, and almost always on its inside.” M. Gerdy3 says that “ the cu- taneous nerves are always liable to be injured by the lancet, owing to the anastomoses be- tween the internal and external cutaneous nerves ; this accident produces instantaneous and acute pain, which extends to the fingers.” We cannot agree with M. Gerdy, who seems to consider the anastomosing nerves as being generally wounded ; nor does it appear neces- sary that acute pain should follow immediately their injury, a point which further observa- tions will explain. The same distinguished writer likewise maintains that there is greater danger of puncturing the nerves, the nearer the lancet approaches the sides of the arm; an opinion which our dissections do not cor- roborate. We think it may be established as a general principle, that there is less risk of wounding the internal cutaneous nerve, the nearer the lancet punctures the centre of the basilic, median basilic, and cubital veins, in a parallel direction with those vessels. This will appear evident by casting a glance over the little sketch of these veins and nerves which we have given, and w here the ordinary course of the nerves may be observed running mostly alongside and in the same direction as in the veins. The external musculo-cutaneous nerve is very regular in its situation, and al- most always lies on the outside of the biceps tendon, behind the cephalic vein, or perhaps more frequently on its inner side; however, as it proceeds towards the “ vena communi- cans,” where it divides into several branches, it mostly passes on the inside of this vein. M. A. Berard, on the contrary, says it passes on the outside of the vena communicans. See ]). 214, Diet, de Med. cit. I have also found this nerve on the outside of the vein ; I have never seen it pass in front ofthe median cephalic vein ; and as it is deep-seated and regular in its course, the best way to avoid cutting it, in bleeding that vein, is to open 1 Sec Fig. 108. 3 See Fig. cit. 3 Anatomic ties Formes, p. 186'. 1 Page 300, tome iii. Anatom. Descript.