AMPUTATION. 148 able manner, and in such cases immediate union ought to be attempted. Not long since, one of the writers of this article saw Mr. Wickham, of Winchester, perform a partial amputation of the foot, in^a case in which not only the bones, but the soft parts, were considerably altered ; the bones so much so, that there was no necessity of following the articulations, as the knife went through the bones themselves with the greatest ease, and yet the flap and bones united rapidly and kindly, with very little suppuration. To dress the stump properly requires great nicety and care, and it will not be too much to say, that upon these the success of imme- diate union must often depend. The section of the soft parts ought to be as even as pos- sible, and made in such a manner as to allow of their covering the bone so amply, that no effort shall be required to make them do so. The bone itself should not start beyond the surface of the deep-seated muscles, but be the centre and deepest point of the hollow cone, which they ought to form. Taking for granted that this state of the parts exists after a due performance of the operation, the surgeon now proceeds to tie the vessels, one by one. The large vessels are sought for in their situations, and being se- cured, the tourniquet, if one has been em- ployed, may be relaxed, in order the better to enable him to detect the smaller vessels, by seeing the blood spirting from their mouths. These he may tie or twist. When he has rendered himself master of the bleeding, he carefully and gently applies a soft sponge squeezed out of warm water, with which he cleanses the surface of the wound and sur- rounding parts from blood, foreign bodies, &c., wiping them with a piece of soft dry linen. This done, he disposes the ligatures in such a manner, as to keep them free from entangle- ment, cutting one of the ends off at the knot, and carrying each of them out at the point of the wound to which it is nearest. If the threads are numerous, they should not be collected together, as such an arrangement might prevent adhesion between the deep surfaces of the flaps ; but if only a few vessels have been tied, the ends of the ligatures may be all brought out together at the inferior angle of the wound. The next step is to bring the divided sur- faces into close contact with each other. In the double flap or oval amputations, the line of union corresponds, of course, with that of the incisions themselves ; but in the circular method, they may be brought together, either in a vertical, or horizontal line; that in which the bone will be best covered, and the stump best shaped, ought to be preferred. The object in confronting the divided sur- faces is to obtain and maintain contact be- tween them at all points. It will not be enough to have the lips alone in coaptation— contact must also exist in the depth of the wound. The loose soft parts, therefore, are drawn gently down over the extremity of the bone, and the wound is evenly closed from the bottom, the edges of the skin forming a straight line, corresponding to the small diameter of the limb. An assistant maintains the apposition, by pressing with the palms of both hands, while the surgeon, with both hands, takes a warm adhesive strap, and after applying one end of it to one side till it sticks firmly, carries it over the closed lips of the wound, and causes it to adhere in the same manner on the opposite side of the stump. In general, the first strap is applied over the centre of the wound, more especially when the line of union is extensive. Other straps are applied in succession, until the coaptation of the entire line is completed. When the straps are cut of equal width, small spaces should be left between them, more especially at the lower part, to admit of the escape of pus, or other matter from the wound. Some surgeons provide for this by making the ad- hesive straps somewhat narrower at the point that crosses the line of union than any other. Moderate compression will be required to effect complete coaptation at the bottom of the wound, and for this purpose, two linen compresses should be applied at each side of the base of the stump, which may be secured in the roller. The advantage of this will be, that as the roller prevents the retraction of the muscles, and gives the tissues that degree of support that protects them from the fusing of pus, so will the compresses prevent the formation of a large cavity at the bottom of the wound, which, even though the lips re- mained well closed, would result from the separation of the flaps at a greater depth from the surface, and in which an extensive sup- puration might take place, and destroy the chance of speedy union and cure. The adhesive straps may be lightly covered with a piece of lint or fenestrated linen, spread over with simple ointment; one or two lengths of soft linen, or lint folded as compresses, will complete the dressing. The best authorities in this country recom- mend the application of the roller, not only to give support to the dressings, but to pre- vent retraction of the muscles, and the co- nicity of the stump. The mode in which it is recommended to be applied by Alanson, Louis, Richerand, and Sir A. Cooper, is to make the first turns on the trunk, thence car- rying it down the limb in circular turns. In the circular amputations, few surgeons in this country at the present day ever em- ploy sutures to keep the edges together; with ordinary care, the roller and adhesive plaster being found sufficient for that purpose. Care after amputations. — As soon as the stump is dressed, the patient should be car- ried to bed, and if he feel faint, a little wine should be given. He should be made to take an easy position in bed, and the stump should be protected by means of an iron or wooden semi-circle, which will at the same time sus- pend the bed clothes. The stump itself should rest on a pillow or cushion in a horizontal