552 BURNS AND SCALDS. valuable auxiliaries ; and opium given by the mouth, in repeated small doses, will prove of great benefit when the patient can bear it. It allays irritation, and thus prevents the system from being worn out. Great atten- tion must be paid to the comfort of the patient; hence if he suffers from moving about on a common bed, he should be laid on a water bed. Much good is often done in this way. Above all, the chamber should be freely ventilated, and his body and bed-clothes frequently changed. While the cicatrix is forming, care must be taken that it be, as nearly as possible, of the same size as the original skin it is destined to replace. Burns of the first and second degrees seldom leave behind any trace of their existence, unless the error has been committed of removing too early the epidermis elevated by serum, the result of which may be troublesome ulcera- tion. It is, however, quite different in respect to burns of the third, fourth, and fifth degrees. There the destroyed portions cannot be replaced ; all we can attempt is to prevent the cicatrix from becoming adherent to the muscles, tendons, and other parts which have been exposed. When the eyelids are burnt, it is not alone sufficient to obviate the cohesion of their free margins by means of tents, a suitable position must also be given to them to avoid a puckered scar, which might occasion a dis- agreeable dragging down, eversion of the lower lid on the cheek, or the inversion of the cilise towards the globe. When we find the margin of a natural aper- ture deeply burned or scalded, its oblitera- tion or contraction is to be counteracted by maintaining it dilated by means of tents, bougies, canulae, &c. Tents of charpie are well suited for preventing coarctation of the vulva and anus, and metallic tubes or gum elastic catheters, for preserving the natural dimensions of the nostrils, and re-union of the alee nasi with the septum; they possess the far- ther advantage of allowing the patient to breath freely. In burns of the fingers, toes, and other contiguous parts, care must be taken to keep them constantly apart, by extending them on pallett splints, fitted to the hand, in the case of the fingers, and by interposing lint spread with cerate betw’ecn the toes. When the bum has invaded the whole cir- cumference of an articulation, we are to con- sider the position in which the member will be subsequently best apt to fulfil its functions ; for the articulation of the knee, the leg is to 1)C extended on the thigh ; this position being most favourable for progression and standing ; for that of the elbow the fore-arm is to be kept in extension. The cicatrix will form slowly in the sense of flexion, but the movements will be preserved. This should always be kept in mind, when it is likely the patient will be ex- posed to an abundant and tedious suppura- tive process. For the tibio-tarsal articulation, the foot must be maintained in a position, neither ex- tended nor flexed ; the same rule applies to the radio-carpal joint. It is unnecessary to state that when the bum affects one side only of a joint, the limb ought to be kept to the oppo- site. If the neck be burnt all round, the head must be supported in its natural vertical direction ; while, if the burn occupy but one side, the head should be kept slightly inclined to the opposite. To obtain a smooth and equable cicatrix, the granulations, when too salient, are to be repressed with caustic ; and, if necessary, with compression effected by a leaden plate. This latter practice however requires both skill and consideration, since undue pressure on the surface of the sore, whether caused by tight bandaging or improper position, is likely to induce a stasis of the blood in the capillaries of the part, the rupture of some of these vessels, and the extravasation of a greater or less quantity of sanguineous fluid. However small the hmmorrhage may be, it directly enfeebles the patient; the effused blood moreover irritates and inflames the sore, and if allowed to remain and get de- composed on the surface, tends to augment and vitiate its secretion. Sometimes the ulcer is so narrow, that the contraction of the cicatrix takes place alto- gether from one side; in certain cases, by allow- ing the contraction to take place in one way, and by forcing it in another, a great deal of deformity may be prevented. Much discretion, however, is required; for if the surgeon attempts to overdo the thing, the ulcer does not heal at all. The point is, for him to see howr much skin is left in other parts, and to manage ac- cordingly ; for should the new skin be strained, it is apt to crack and ulcerate afresh, and the patient has to undergo the whole process anew. We are sometimes enabled, by means of oily embrocations, baths, douches, together with passive motion, to soften, extend, and even to obliterate the irregularities left by the cicatrization of burns. The surgical treat- ment of these, however, will be considered at full length in the article Cicatrice. Bibliography.—Clowes (If7.), A profitable ami necessary Book of Observation for all those that are burned with the flame of gunpowder, &c. 4to. Lon- don, 1596. Fahricius Hudanus, De ambustionibus, quae oleo et aqua fervida, ferro candentc, pulverc tor- mentario, fulmine et quavis alia materia ignita sunt, 8vo. Basil, 1607. Cleghorn, Account of a particular method of curing Burns and Scalds. In Med. Facts, 1792, vol. ii. p. 120. Kentish, An Essay on Burns, 8vo. London, 1797. Parkinson, On the Application of Spirit of Wine to Burns and Scalds. In Memoirs of Medical Society of London, 1799, vol. v. p. 62. Earle, Sir •/., An Essay on the means of lessening the effects of Fire on the Human Body, 8vo. London, 1799. Kentish, A second Essay on Burns, 8vo. Newcastle, 1800. Hedin, Diss. sistens Observationcs circa Vul- nera e Combustione, 4to. Upsal, 1804. Deljmch, Precis elem. des Maladies reputees chirurgicales. Palis, 1816. Dickinson, Remarks on Burns and 1 Diet, dc Mcdccine, art. cit.