322 ANKYLOSIS. bent to an angle more acute than a right angle, or to an amputation, which had been more than once proposed as the ultimatum. If the limb were straightened, and the knee was immovable in its newly acquired state, there would be no difficulty in bending it by the same mechanical means which had straighten- ed it, if that were thought desirable. And again, if before the limb became thoroughly straightened, much inconvenience and pain, or any other disagreeable symptoms were to occur, so as to require the discontinuance of the extension, the question arose, whether, considering the partial luxation of the head of the tibia backwards, the patient would not walk with greater comfort and less apparent lameness, with the knee slightly bent, than with it absolutely straight. The operation was rapidly completed in the following manner, observing the same precau- tions as in dividing tendons for the cure of con- genital or acquired contraction of the ankle, called club-foot, &c., namely, to divide the ten- dons, with no more disturbance of contiguous parts or breach of surface, than may be abso- lutely necessary to procure immediate union of the wound, if possible, and not to exert any extension of the joint until adhesion have taken place ; as, by following an opposite course, through an useless anxiety of seeing whether the limb can be straightened, inflammation and suppuration might be induced and en- danger success. The propriety of making extension immediately after an operation is negatived by the results derived from expe- rience, viz. that divided tendons, like frac- tured bones, do not unite firmly until a consi- derable time has elapsed ; by obtaining an immediate union of the skin, (which has fol- lowed without one exception, in more than sixty cases in which I have treated contrac- tions of the ankle by division of the tendo Achillis, &c.,) the divided tendon is reduced to the state of a simple rupture, which, com- pared with a suppurating wound of tendon, is analogous to the difference between simple and compound fracture of a bone. The patient was placed upon her face and abdomen upon a sofa, the point of the knee resting upon a pillow ; one assistant supported the thigh, whilst another, with his hand upon the back of an ankle, used the leg as a long lever to act upon the knee-joint, by which the tendons were kept perfectly tense. The knife used by me for the division of the three flexor tendons of the thigh, in the case I am relating, was a very narrow convex- edged scalpel, the point of which I introduced through the integument at the back of the articulation, to the outside of the tendons of the semi-membranosus and semi-tendinosus muscles, with one of its flat surfaces directed towards those tendons. The point of the knife was carefully glided beneath them, its cutting edge turned towards, and pressed against them, by which they were imme- diately severed, owing to their being held well upon the stretch. The knife being with- drawn, the integument was stretched by the fingers of my left hand, a little outwards, so that the puncture by which the semi-mem- branosus and semi-tendinosus tendons had been divided, was brought directly above or somewhat to the outside of the biceps tendon, which was now felt to be the only tendon un- divided, whilst with my right hand, I intro- duced beneath the biceps, through the same puncture of the skin, a small curved bistoury, having a concave cutting edge, by which the tendon was instantly divided. A small quan- tity of arterial blood flowed, which ceased by slight compression with lint. Adhesive plan- ter and bandage were applied. The patient was made comfortable, and left quiet upon the sofa; she complained of pain in the divided part, and some numbness of the skin behind the joint, as if some filament from the sciatic had been injured. She ceased to complain of these a quarter of an hour after taking ten minims tr. opii. She had no fever or constitutional disturbance ; the wound united perfectly by adhesion ; so that on the third day after the operation, the apparatus for gradually extend- ing the joint was applied. I had the satisfac- tion of seeing the limb rendered daily more and more straight, without any pain or sense of resistance being felt in the divided part, or in the back of the thigh ; her chief com- plaints having been that of irksomeness, from having the limb constantly more or less com- pressed by the straps of the apparatus, and occasionally pain in the front of the articula- tion, whenever the extending screws of the apparatus were turned. At the expiration of two months the knee was becoming nearly straight, and I considered the time arrived for attending to the ankle, the extension of which in a patient of less excitable disposi- tion would have been carried on simulta- neously with that of the knee. The con- trivance for effecting that, was set into opera- tion ; but my patient’s health not being im- proved by the necessity of keeping her so long within doors, owing to the severity of the late winter, and neuralgic pains in the face to which she had been subject coming on, induced me not to subject her delicate frame to daily trial, but rather to advance with the extension by the most insensible de- grees. This determination was arrived at by me the more willingly, as an elder sister had died of tubercular phthisis, and argument might not stem the prejudices of affection, should any serious deterioration of her health have ensued ; for in such a case, the opera- tion would be impugned as a cause of that or perhaps of any subsequent misfortune, where- as, in truth, the cure of a patient’s limb, by restoring the individual to hilarity, air, and exercise, would be one of the most certain impediments to a strumous or consumptive tendency. Not a single unpleasant event, however, has occurred during the treatment, beyond two slight abrasions of the cuticle; the ankle is restored to its natural state, the knee is very nearly straight, and the patient