386 ARTERIES, ALTERATIONS OF. patch itself appears to be slightly elevated, but there is neither redness nor injected ves- sels in its vicinity. In the second stage, the patches are elevated, like pustules of an irregular or rounded shape, on the surface of the aorta to the height of a line or two. The internal membrane is still thin, transparent, and unaltered. On pressing these eminences gently, the finger perceives the movement of a semi-fluid matter. If the pressure be increased, the lining membrane gives way, and a yellow matter escapes, which resembles healthy pus ; sometimes this matter is either moist or dry, and as it were farina- ceous, or the mass seems as if it consisted of a quantity of minute, thin, shining spangles, some of them of a silvery, some of a golden hue. The matter being evacuated, the pustule dis- appears, and the internal membrane is de- pressed in the place it occupied. On removing this membrane, the internal surface of the middle tunic is found ulcerated, softened, and reduced to a firm, moist, yellowish detritus ; several of the laminae of this tunic are thus altered, but the healthy structure still exists towards its most external layers. In the third stage, the pustules having emptied themselves spontaneously, small ir- regular depressions, with edges slightly ele- vated, are observed. The surface of these depressions is smooth, but exhibits here and there fissures or cracks. On removing this internal membrane, the softened matter and the alteration of the middle tunic just described will be found. In some instances, the internal membrane has disappeared, and the blood is in contact with the middle tunic. If we now compare these several lesions together, we must at once perceive that they are nothing more than degrees of one and the same alteration, which originated in the small point which was first observed between the internal and middle tunics, and which at a later period becoming fixed to the latter, passed through the stages above described. M. Andral has described these pustules as small abscesses, but although the matter they contain has some resemblance to pus, it differs totally from it in the mode of its formation, and has a much greater analogy to that of softened tubercle. The succession of these changes proves to demonstration that the alterations described "under the various names of spots, pustules, abscesses, atheromatous, and steatomatous productions, &c. have one common origin, to wit, the almost imperceptible spot, developed without any trace of inflammation between the innermost and middle tunics of the arterial tube. Morgagni and Haller had already remarked this series of transformations, but they had included in it, the cartilaginous patches, the origin of which, as has been shown, is totally different. They fell into the same error, as regards the osseous pro- ductions ; and this is easily accounted for, as very frequently both the atheromatous matter, and the osseous productions, are abundantly developed beneath the primitive cartilagi- nous patches. It may be here remarked, that out of the great number of ulcerations of the middle tunic, observed by M. Bizot, he only met with one, in which there was a com- mencement of aneurism ; in all the others, there was always a layer, in some cases, no thicker than a leaf of paper, of the middle tunic remaining; in the case in which this membrane had entirely disappeared, there were partial dilatations on the arch of the aorta, corresponding to the points where the middle tunic was wanting. Writers have described steatomatous productions of the arteries. It is, however, unnecessary to re- peat their statements on this subject, as these tumours are now considered by Mr. Hodgson and most modern authorities, as nothing more than aneurismal sacs, that have undergone spontaneous cure by the deposition of coagu- lable lymph. Osseous Transformation :—The transforma- tions of the primitive patches do not always follow in the order above described. Some- times a hard semi-transparent point, of the same colour as the patch itself, forms in its centre, and increases slowly, more in extent than thickness, till it alters the structure of the middle tunic, as has been already de- scribed. The surface in contact with the lining membrane increases less rapidly, and a long period elapses, even when the osseous disk is of some size, before any remarkable change can be observed in this membrane. In some cases, however, it seems to be slightly thickened by a layer of albumen spread over the concretion. Ultimately, even this mem- brane is destroyed by the progress of the ossification, which then is in immediate contact ; with the blood. The yellow soft matter always surrounds the concretion, but no fibres can be discovered where they are in contact, the fibrous structure of the middle coat can only be detected by proceeding from the cir- cumference of the concretion towards the sound portion of the artery. It is in the advanced period of life that these concretions are most commonly formed. But they have also been discovered in subjects of tender age. Mr. Hodgson mentions a case observed by Mr. Young, in which the temporal artery of a child only fifteen months old was found ossified, and Wilson met an instance of ossifi- cation in the aorta of a child only three years old. Bichat supposed that ossification never occurred in vessels through which black blood only circulated, and consequently that these concretions were not observed in the pul- monary artery. This, however, is erroneous. The instances, it is true, are very rare, hut they have been observed, nevertheless, by several pathologists. These concretions sometimes occupy the entire circumference of the vessel, but they do not form prominences on the surface of the arterial tube; they are often found sur- rounding the origins of the smaller arte- ries, and in such cases, they have the ap-