18,3 FARCY. may be, under which multiple abscesses may be developed, it will be possible in most cases to determine whether they are farcinous or not, by a careful investigation of their cause ; by taking into account the patient’s occupation, constitution, antecedent diseases, but above all, the effects of the inoculation upon a soli- dipedous animal of the pus of these abscesses. However, as the inoculation hy means of pus from horses affected with chronic farcy often fails, it might happen that pus taken from a man labouring under chronic farcy would not give rise to the development of farcy, or glanders, in a horse, and the uncertainty in regard to the point would remain. This ex- periment is decisive only when followed by farcinous or glanderous infection. The results of therapeutic experiments on animals affected with chronic farcy, are un- fortunately entitled to little confidence, and form but a feeble resource for the medical practitioner. I have seen a good number of cures of farcy, but few of them had proved permanent. Some cures of chronic farcy in the human subject have also been spoken of; but it is difficult to say to which of the remedies, suc- cessively employed, the cure was to be ascribed. However, it appears to be well established, that it is advantageous to open the abscesses with the cutting instrument as soon as they appear, and to cauterize the cavity, when it is not large, with the iron 6om- ton, heated to redness ; when the cavity is large, chloruretted or ioduretted injections, or of the honied vinous water, should be employed. The farcinous ulcers should be caute- rized several times, either by fire, or by the acid nitrate of mercury. Finally, it should not be forgotten that the cure of the farcinous engorgements, abscesses, and ulcers, in man, as well as in the solidipedes, is singularly pro- moted by proper hygeienic measures, and especially by nourishing food. Farcinous ulcers, that had long remained fistulous, have been healed by a course of natural or artificial sulphurous baths ; others have closed spon- taneously while a favourable change was brought about in the constitution, under the influence of more wholesome food, country air, and moderate exercise, &c. The human subject, the same as the solidi- pedous, may, after an apparent cure from farcy, of several months’ standing, exhibit again the symptoms of farcinous infection. In our ignorance of any specific, hygeienic care is still our chief resource to guard against these deplorable relapses, and the ulterior development, unfortunately too frequent, of acute glanders. 1 shall conclude this sketch of farcy in the soliilipedous and human subject, by pointing out some special researches, which the reader may consult, with a view to extend his know- ledge of this disease. Vegea expresses him- self thus as to the derivation of the words “ morbus farciminosus,” the name under which he designates it. “ Fareiminosus autem mor- bus a similitudine farciminis appellatus est, quia velut per fistulas quasdam inter cutem et carnem corruptus humor emanat, et per totum corpus collectiones plurimas facit, et aliis velut minuentibns, aliae rursum nascun- tur.” (Vegetii Artis Veterinarias.) The deno- minations of farcin and farcy, employed by French and English authors, have evidently the same derivatives, As to the term Warm, employed by the Germans, it is derived pro- bably from the resemblance of the farcinous cords to worms. The term scabbia, employed by the Italians, is doubtless allusive to the farcinous eruption and crusts. Spanish vete- rinarians have taken account chiefly of the farcinous tumour of the ganglions, as is obvi- ous from their using the term, “ lamparoncs del cavallo” (scrofula of the horse). Bibliography.—For the Farcy of the solidipedes, the reader may consult Bouley, Farcin et Morve, Re- cueil de Med. Vet. Paris, 1833. Collaine, Experiences Therap. sur la Morve et le Farcin, Rec. Periodique de Sedillot, t. xl. Dronard, Emploi de l’arsenic con- tre le Farcin, Rec. de Med. Yet. 1834. Ecole Vet. de Lyons (C'omptes rendus annuels de 1825 a 1838). Gerard, De l’identite de la Morve et du Farcin. Rec. de Med. Vet. 1827. Goliier, Mem. et Observat. sur la Chir. et la Med. Vet. Paris, 1813. Hamon et Pruner, Mem. sur la Lepre boutonniere de l’homme et le Farcin du cheval, regardes comme maladies iden- tiques. Rec. de Med. Vet. 1836. Hurel, Diss. sur le Farcin. Paris, 1764. Hutrel el'Arboval, Art. Farcin in Diet, de Med. etdeChir. etHyg. Vet. Paris, 1833. Hazard, Rapport a FAdministration des Postcs sur le Farcin. Rec. de Sedillot, p. 168. Jalouset, Obs. sur l’analogie du Farcin des chevaux avec laVet'oledes homines. Hist. Soc. Royale de Med. 1776. Leblanc, Des divers especes de Morve et de Farcin, considerees comme des formes d’une meme affection generate contagieuse. Paris, 1839. Recherches experimentales et comparatives sur les effets de l’Inoculation au cheval et a Pane du Pus et du Mucus Morveux, &c. Paris, 1839. Renault, De la resorption du pus considere comme cause immediate du Farcin. Rec. de Med. Vet. 1834. Ibid. 1835. Tessier, De la Morve et du Farcin considere sous le point de vue de la nouvelle doctrine medicate, la Diathese purnlente. Rec. de Med. Vet. 1839. Youalt's Lectures, art. Farcy in the Veterinarian, May, 1832. Ivart et Renault, Rap- port sur l’etat san’itaire des chevaux de la garnison de Paris. Rec. de Med. Vet. 1832. For a similar disease, known under the name of the Farcy of horned cattle, the reader may consult Gelle, Patbologie Bovine, art. Farcin. Paris, 1840. Mousses, Mem. sur le Farcin des betes a grosses cornes. Rec. Med. Vet. 1837. Sorillot, Exemples du Farcin dans le boeuf. Ibid. And in regard to its transmissibility to the human subject, consult Alexander, De la Diathese purnlente, de la Morve aigue communiquee a l’homme, Archiv. Gen. deMed. 1836. Anonymous, Matter of Farcy and Glanders identical, contagious, and producing similar contagious matter in the human subject by inoculation. Edinb. Med. and Surg. Journal, vol. xix. Duplay, De quelques Faits interessans, &c. Archiv. Gen. de Med. t. xxxi. Eck, Observat. sur P influence nuisible du poison de la Morve cliez les homines. Medici- nische Zeitung. Berlin, 1837. Graves, Glanders and Button Farcy in the human subject. London, Med. Gaz. vol. xix. Hertwiff, On the transmission of the contagious animal matter ot Glanders and Farcy to man.°Gaz. Med. of Prussia, 1834. Lorin, Observa- tions sur la communication du Farcin des chevaux aux homines. Journ. de Med. Chir. et Pharm. 1812. Payer, De la Morve et du Farcin, cliez l’lioinme. Paris, 1837. Rennes, Abces nombreux dans les