ARTERITIS. 385 ileum, there was slight emphysema, but its consistence and thickness were natural; the glands of Peyer were bluish, dotted with grey, but not prominent ; in the lower part of the intestine, numerous isolated follicles of the size of millet-seed lay scattered. The mesenteric ganglions were soft. There was some sub- mucous emphysema in the ctecum ; its lining membrane was greyish, thin, and soft, tearing in shreds half an inch long. In the rest of the intestine, the mucous membrane was also greyish, but there was neither injection nor emphysema; on tearing, it gave shreds an inch long, the mucous follicles were visible throughout. The bladder contained a little brownish fluid ; its mucous membrane was pale. The cortical substance of the kidneys of a greenish hue was emphysematous, and on peeling off the fibrous envelope tore with it ; the tubular substance was firm and of a violet colour. Under the peritoneum, covering the liver, were several emphysematous elevations; the organ itself was bulky, somewhat soft, and contained a saneous fluid, rather than blood ; its parenchyma was of a pale green, and exhaled a strong odour ; the gall bladder was full of bile of a golden yellow. The spleen was four inches long, slightly emphysematous, very soft, and of a deep brown colour. The head was not examined; but this does not affect the value of the case, as there were no cerebral symp- toms observed during the disease, and, there- fore, excepting the traces of pericarditis, which evidently had occurred on the 29th, there were no other lesions of importance but those observed in the arterial system, so that if we had nothing else but the description of the or- gans to enable us to form an opinion as to the cause of death, we should be compelled to as- cribe it to an affection of the aorta.” All the circumstances of this case, it will be observed, had been closely watched, and even the existence of the false membrane had been indicated before death by M. Bizot to the other physicians who were in attendance with him. Tl lie diagnosis might have appeared a bold one, but he felt authorized to offer it, from his having previously, and in the course of his researches on this interesting subject, observed two other cases marked by the same peculiar symptoms, sudden acute oedema, with high febrile action, without any disturbance of the heart, or of the other important organs. To this assemblage of symptoms, therefore, taken in connexion with the existence of a false membrane covering the internal surface of the aorta, notwithstanding the smallness of the cases in support of his opinion, M. Bizot does not hesitate to apply the name of acute aortitis. The exudation of acute character may vary, however, from the description given above, being, in some instances, more intimately ad- herent to the lining membrane, more firm, and of a milky white. Sometimes these patches resemble the hard boiled white of egg, and present the hardness of cartilage ; in the latter case, the lining membrane can no longer VOL. i. be found. That they severally commence in albuminous effusion cannot, however, be doubted, for if, while in the soft state, they be subjected to ebullition, the most transparent of these exudations become firm, opaque, and white. Some authors have described them as being developed between the internal and middle tunics, but this is erroneous, as may be shown, by peeling off the latter with great care : the shred stops or breaks off suddenly on arriving at the edge of the cartilaginous patches, and cannot be continued over its sur- face. In regard to these cartilaginous patches, another error is prevalent, viz. that they ulti- mately become osseous. Now if such trans- formation ever occurred, the stages of the transi- tion must surely be detected; but this is not the case. The source of this error will be pointed out hereafter. The last peculiarity of these exudations which requires to be noticed is, that they occur most commonly before or about the middle period of life, contrasting in this respect with other alterations of structure of the arteries, to be described hereafter. We have now to notice another form of alteration, occurring in the arterial tunics, w'hich, though presenting itself in specks and patches of variable extent, differs from the species above described, not only in its origin, but in its mode of development, and ultimate consequences. The alterations now under consideration, may be observed even in sub- jects under puberty, presenting themselves singly or in groups, as small specks or dots of the size of a grain of sand, and of a whitish yellow' colour, round or near the orifices of the coronary, innominate, carotid, subclavian, and intercostal arteries. They are not elevated upon the surface of the internal tunic, but are seen through it, as neither the transparency, nor the consistence of this membrane is in the slightest degree affected by their presence, at least, while in this, which may be considered, their rudimentary state. If a shred of the mem- brane be detached and torn towards these yellow spots, the spots peel off with it, being slightly adherent to its external surface ; but if the same attempt be made, after the spots have become confluent, and formed a patch of some extent, the yellow substance then ad- heres partly to the outer side of the shred, and partly to the middle tunic ; hence it is obvious, that these yellow spots are developed neither on the internal, nor on the middle tunic, but between both. When they attain a certain size, as they frequently do in old age, they undergo various transformations, of which, ulcerous, or rather atheromatous soft- ening and ossification are the principal. The process of softening presents various stages. In the first, the internal membrane covering the patch is still unaffected, but the internal fibres of the middle coat, on which it rests, are more or less altered according to the degree of advancement which the pro- cess has attained ; these fibres are softened, and differ in colour, being of a brighter yellow than the sound parts of the same coat. The C c