97 AMAUROSIS. flammation ; so much so, that I have for years abandoned it. The local abstraction of blood by leeches or the cupping-glass is extremely serviceable in very many of these cages, either in addition to general blood-letting or singly. It should be resorted to in similar cases to those in which I have advised the general loss of blood, but in which the symptoms are not so urgent or marked. I prefer the use of the cupping-glass, and believe that the best spot for its application is behind and below the mastoid process : the removal of six or eight ounces of blood is sufficient in most instances at a time, and frequently, perhaps most fre- quently, a less quantity suffices in the com- mencement of treatment and before the in- fluence of medicine can be established ; cup- ping may be repeated with advantage under any augmentation of cerebral disturbance. Both general and local bleeding may be, and often are, carried to an injurious extent, by lessening power too much. In children, delicate females, and very feeble persons, leeches would perhaps be pre- ferable to cupping. 2. The observance of bodily and mental quietude is too obvious to need comment. Diet must be proportioned to the strength of the patient, and urgency of the case ; gene- rally a moderate mild nutritious form is the best; extreme abstinence is rarely required, and sometimes during medical treatment even the use of stimuli, as beer, wine, or spirit may be essential. Cases which are slow in their development and progress, such as result remotely from in- jury to the head, or are consequent upon fever, excess of mental labour, or are produced very gradually by suppressed secretion, discharge, or habitual disorder, seldom require loss of blood, but are better treated locally by counter-irri- tants, as blisters, tartar emetic, issues, or setons ; the two former modes of irritating are applicable to the cases resulting from in- jury to the head, fever, or mental anxiety or labour, and the more severe forms of issue and seton will be found most serviceable in such cases as have followed suppressed secre- tion or morbid action. As a general rule, the medical man should endeavour to restore or promote the secretion or morbid action when it has been arrested, as the best means of subduing the cerebral disease. 3. The most powerful agent we possess of promoting or exciting absorbent action is mercury ; and this is the remedy most to be depended upon in effecting the desired pur- pose in the cases we are now considering ; the same caution and rules apply to its exhi- bition in these instances that I have detailed as requisite in the treatment of choroiditis. Of the influence of iodine I cannot speak with so much confidence, but I consider it a very useful auxiliary in some cases. I shall briefly recapitulate respecting treat- voi. i. ment and the application of its particular forms to particular cases. In those which result from injury to the head, from apoplexy, from intemperance, from gluttony, from excess of anger, or from sud- den suppression of secretion, or morbid action, when urgent symptoms are present and the disease has been sudden in development: 1. General bleeding ; abstinence ; purga- tives ; perhaps cold to the head. 2. Local bleeding; counter-irritation ; mode- rate diet; mercury, rather freely; perfect quietude. When the disease is more slowly developed, and cerebral symptoms less marked, as re- motely after injury to the head, or from excess in food, from mental anxiety, as after fever, or from suppressed secretion or morbid action: 1. Local bleeding, by cupping. 2. Counter-irritation ; moderate diet; mer- cury more slowly; quietude. In the most insidious cases, where the symptoms of cerebral disease are very slight, and the progress of the disease extremely slow, as from many of the above causes, or from syphilis or scrofula : 1. Counter-irritation, and attention to se- cretions, with moderate diet. 2. Counter-irritation; mercury or iodine, separately or together. When there is marked syphilitic taint, or decided strumous diathesis, the power should be maintained by good nutritious diet, and mercury be administered cautiously ; and in many of these cases I believe that iodine will effect more than mercury, or that it will ma- terially aid the latter remedy. I have seen so many cases deemed hope- less recover under steady and continued means, such as I have described, that I re- commend them with confidence : it frequently happens, however, that little immediate good results, especially in the more slowly deve- loped and insidious disease ; but I have found that a steady perseverance has accomplished that which a moderate trial of the remedies had given little hopes of. I have gone on with a careful alterative course for months to- gether, when the power of the patient has al- lowed of it, and have occasionally succeeded when hope had almost disappeared. There are three consequences of cerebral disease found with amaurosis, which are not much under the control of the remedies I have described, or indeed of any others that we are acquainted with ; they are the serous effusion constituting hydrocephalus, purulent effusion or abscess, and some forms of tumours. The first is perhaps most readily distinguished, and may be frequently combated with success in the early stage, but after a certain progress our remedies are of little avail. Counter- irritants and mercurials are, I believe, the most efficacious means. In cerebral abscess, the symptoms are often verv obscure ; and I believe that if it could be H