FRACTURE. 381 the tumefaction of the joint, which quickly follows from extravasation of blood, and se- cretion of synovia, are diagnostic of the seat of injury ; time only will be requisite to deter- mine whether the tendon, the bone, or the ligament be divided, in cases of longitudinal fracture, the diagnosis must depend on the tact of the finger ; since, except from the effects of pain, there is no impediment to motion. The want of bony union, so often observable in transverse fractures of the patella, is prin- cipally owing to want of due contact of the fragments during the process of reparation. A second cause of non-union is found in the circumstance of the articular surface being devoid of active periosteum1 ; and a third cause which I would refer to, is the cancella- ted nature of the bone, or rather the thinness of its shell, and consequent inactivity of its periosteum. Sir Charles Bell justly considers, that the sudden division of the bone by the muscles, compared with the contusion and effu- sion which direct violence create, is little conducive to, or rather obstructive of, ossific inflammation at the precise points where it might be available. He regards bony union as most likely to follow a simple blow. I do not think the supposition, that the pa- tella is of itself indisposed to fresh ossifica- tions, is at all well founded. When its carti- lage has been removed by ulceration, it very readily becomes ankylosed with the femur ; when its anterior face is pressed upon by tu- mors, it speedily becomes the seat of exos- tosis ; and after fracture, the broken surfaces generally become well covered in by bony shell. In the museum of Hunter is the patella of a large animal, with a considerable exostosis on its anterior and inferior part; and one, of a man, covered with spicular exostoses, from periostitis. There is a similar specimen in Guy’s museum. There is an interesting spe- cimen of reparation of the patella in the mu- seum of King’s College. The bone is com- minuted, with but little displacement of the fragments and the fissures are partially filled with little masses of new spongy ossification. I may also revert to the case related at page 261 of this volume; but the bony reunion of longitudinal fractures, and occasionally of transverse fractures, sufficiently establish the fact, that there is no especial defect of ossific inflammation. It will ultimately appear why the callus is scanty or partial. After longitudinal fractures of the patella, bony union most frequently takes place ; but when, as occasionally happens, a small part is separated laterally from the rest of the muscle, a ligamentous union occurs. Sir A. Cooper relates, that in a case of transverse fracture, in which the lower fragment was also split longitudinally, the transverse division was re- paired by ligament, and the latter by bone. 1 In the case of a fungoid tumour, (described at page 261 of this volume) in the patella, the formation of new bone beneath the cartilage was not totally arrested. Notwithstanding tho prevalent idea of the rarity of osseous union of a fractured patella, there are still occasional expressions con- cerning the inconveniences of superabundant callus projecting into the joint, especially if the parts of the fractured bone be kept toge- ther. We have shown, wdien speaking of callus, that the cartilage, precluding as it does the existence of periosteum, renders this fear imaginary ; and a case has never been ad- duced to render it more reasonable, or to make the event seem possible. (See p. 320.) The disadvantages of an interspace between the two connected fragments,—such as the difficulty of walking over unequal ground, or up steep ascents, seem generally proportion- ate to the length of the ligamentous substance found between them, to the loss of the pulley or leverage, and to the consequent imperfect adaptation of the extensors. This again is likely to be great in proportion as the subject of the injury may have passed the period of development. The principal indications in the treatment of transverse fractures are to relax the ex- tensor muscles, and to maintain the fractured surfaces as closely as possible together. These chiefly depend on the judicious position of the limb, aided by some mechanical assistance. According to the generality of w'riters, exten- sion of the leg, flexion of the thigh upon the pelvis, and a w'ell adjusted compression of the extensors of the knee, by a roller, seem best to fulfil the first indication. The com- monly received notion, that a careful applica- tion of rollers subdues the action of muscles should not be disregarded, although it would certainly seem to be a very secondary, or even a doubtful resource. The object of the flexion of the hip is to relax the rectus femoris muscle. It is also considered essential that the body should be so raised, that the trunk may form nearly a right angle w’ith the thigh, by which means the rectus may become completely relaxed. A right position of limb very much favours approximation of the fragments, but the second indication, that of maintaining them in the closest possible apposition, is only to be effected by pressing the upper portion of the bone towards the lowrer, and so securing it, by the continued pressure of a bandage or other ap- paratus. Care should of course be taken not to pinch or confine the skin between the por- tions of bone in fixing such apparatus. There are no objections to the softest bed; and, provided the hip be kept well flexed, the change of posture which may be obtained by alternately raising the leg and the shoulders still more, will afford very welcome relief. It will require very little contrivance to adapt an inclined plane to the back, and another to the extended limb, which shall move toge- ther as one piece for this purpose. The whole leg is to rest on a straight excavated and well-padded splint, and the heel is to be raised very high. Before, however, applying any bandage to