729 CATARACT. an opening made in the sclerotic coat. Some of these1 have recommended the opening to be made parallel to the margin of the cornea ; others2, in a direction perpendicular to it. The opening is to be made at the upper part of the eye with a lancet-shaped knife. After this opening has been made, the cataract is to be laid hold of with a hook or forceps, and ex- tracted without making any pressure on the eyeball. The late Sir James Earle invented an in- strument for the purpose, consisting of “ a small spear-pointed lancet, of a proper breadth, which introduces a pair of fine forceps into the globe of the eye, and when sufficiently inserted, the sharp or spear point, by means of a spring, is withdrawn, leaving the forceps behind ; with these the cataract may be gently seized, made to quit its connexions, and be brought away through the opening : and thus is completed the whole operation.” Sir James used the instrument for extracting an opaque lens or capsule, and he tells us that, “ capable of acting in a double capacity, the instrument becomes the best of all possible couching needles 3.” This mode of performing the extraction of cataracts has never been generally practised, and we are not aware that it has been attended with a sufficient degree of success to recom- mend its adoption. $ 18. Treatment of the Patient after Operations for Cataract. The great danger to be apprehended from the supervention of inflammation, after opera- tions for cataract (which constitutes the chief cause of their failure), renders it always a matter of solicitude on the part of the surgeon to employ every means in order to prevent inflammation from ensuing. Hence the anti- phlogistic regimen requires to be strictly enforced. When the operation for cataract has been completed, the patient should move himself as little as possible in being conveyed to bed. The room should be well aired, of a comfort- able temperature, but not too warm ; and the light admitted into it should be lessened, but not altogether excluded. The patient ought to be cautioned to make as little muscular exertion as possible, and to keep his eyes closed as in sleep, without forcibly compressing them. He should lie for the most part on his back, with his head and shoulders well raised. The eye operated on is to be kept cool with an evaporating lotion, consisting of a solution of acetate of lead. For this purpose two or three folds of linen are applied over the eye, and kept constantly wet with this lotion. If the patient is full and stout, blood, to the ex- ‘ B. Bell. 2 Earle. Mackenzie. 3 An Account of a new mode of operation for the Removal of the Opacity in the eye called Cataract, bv Sir James Earle, F.R.S. London, 1810. Mr. Mid- dlemens, of Birmingham, has recently invented a similar instrument, which he calls a “needle-forceps.” tent of iii lbs. should be taken from his arm immediately upon the occurrence of pain in the eye. In fact, the case requires to be treated as that of a wound of the eyeball. And inasmuch as the wound in the operation of extraction is much greater than that in any of the other operations, the inflammation is generally greater, and requires more prompt and vigorous measures both to prevent and to subdue it. After extraction, the patient is therefore generally bled from the arm a few hours after the operation, as a preventive of inflammation. In some cases repeated general and local bleedings, warm fomentations and blisters are required, according to the degree of inflam- mation, as indicated by the appearance of the eye, the degree of pain, and increased fre- quency and strength of pulse. The exhibition of purgatives, and after these, antimonial, nauseating, and diaphoretic medicines, and warm bathing of the feet, are often useful auxiliaries. < After operations with the needle the eye may be examined by opening it on the day after the operation, and every day subse- quently ; but after extraction, it has been found best not to open the eye for three or four days. The eye may then be looked at. If the case has gone on well, the incision of the cornea will be healed. In eight or ten days the patient may be allowed to rise from his bed, after which he will gradually recover. Inflammation of the eye is sometimes pro- tracted, after extraction, by the protrusion of a portion of the hyaloid membrane of the vitreous humour, or of the iris, from the wound of the cornea. Each of these may require the application of scissors and nitrate of silver for their removal. When there is a disposition to rheumatic or gouty inflammation in the system, the in- flammation following operations upon the eye, often assumes the same character. The case then requires to be treated on general prin- ciples. When violent inflammation of the iris takes place, the exhibition of mercury, and the application of belladonna, in addition to the other remedies, are generally highly bene- ficial. $ 19. Choice of an Operation for the Removal of Cataract. Each of the different modes of operating which have been described, has the same ob- ject in view,—the removal of the cataract. These operations, how'ever, are not equally suited to each kind of cataract; thus, the operation by absorption is the best for the removal of fluid or soft cataract, and depression or extraction are inadmissible ; while that by extraction, when successfully performed, is the best for the removal of hard cataracts. Yet these operations have each had their advocates and opponents, who have canvassed their merits in order to show the superiority of one over another, as if each of them was equally applicable to all cases. Of late years, how-