391 ARTERIES, ANOMALIES OF. tebne, had been perforated by the foreign body. In some cases, which the continental ana- tomists describe as not being of very rare occurrence, the left carotid artery is a branch of the innominata, and crosses immediately in front of the trachea, below the thyroid body to the left side of the neck. In one example which we met in the dissecting-room of Trinity College, Dublin, all the great vessels arose from the left side of the arch. The right carotid was the first branch, and crossed the lower part of the trachea, giving off the right vertebral artery as it passed. The left carotid and subclavian arteries were detached, nearly from the same point, to the left of the right carotid, while the right subclavian was given off from the descending arch, and passed to the right side behind the oesophagus and trachea. Finally, we may observe that in a very few rare cases the subclavian artery passes in front of the scalenus anticus muscle, the vein behind it; the relative positions of the two vessels being thus reversed ', and that after it has emerged from beneath the scalenus muscle, the subclavian is sometimes completely enveloped by the axillary plexus of nerves, a circumstance which would greatly increase the difficulty of tying the vessel. The vertebral artery (particularly the left) may arise from the arch of the aorta and ascend along the neck for a considerable way before it enters the foramina of the cervical vertebrae. We have seen it enter as high upas the fourth, and we have Scemmerring’s autho- rity for stating that it may enter the second cervical vertebra. In such a case the verte- bral artery might be mistaken for the primary carotid, or included in the same ligature with the latter vessel. Such disposition would, also, increase the danger of all incised wounds of the neck, &c. Burns has related an instruc- tive case of this kind. The left vertebral artery arose from the arch; the right was given off by the subclavian, and ascended im- mediately behind the carotid artery and on the rectus anticus muscle, as far as the foramen of the third cervical vertebra, through which it entered. Sometimes the trunk of the ver- tebral artery is formed by the union of two branches from the subclavian, or from the subclavian and arch, or we may have three distinct branches uniting to form the verte- bral, an example of which is related in Meckel’s Archives. The disposition of the vertebral artery to which allusion has just been made, and its course along the neck, only separated from the common carotid by a thin slip of fascia, might, as A. Burns remarks, render it a mat- ter of some difficulty to distinguish an aneur- ism of the vertebral from one of the primary carotid artery, but the surgeon, acquainted 1 M. Blandin lias given the particulars of a case in which the subclavian vein passed with the artery behind the scalenus anticus muscle. Here the surgeon might have included both vessels in the same liga- ture. with the varieties of the arterial system, would immediately detect the source of error by alternately compressing either vessel, and ob- serving the effect produced on the aneurismal tumour. The arteries of the upper extremity pre- sent a great variety of anomalies, which are interesting to the surgeon. Passing over those of the circumflex arteries, and arriving immediately at the brachial, we find that this vessel, instead of dividing into two branches at the bend of the elbow, may bifurcate at any point between the elbow and the axilla. This high bifurcation of the brachial artery occurs very frequently, and is much more common than any other anomaly to which the vessel is subject. It may, take place just above the bend of the elbow, in the middle of the arm, or so high up in the axilla as to furnish, from the radial branch, the long thoracic artery. The manner in which the division into two branches takes place, also, varies much. Sometimes both are of equal size, run down close to each other along the inner edge of the biceps, and separate near the elbow-joint to become radial and ulnar arteries. In many other cases, the branches are of very unequal size ; one is nearly as large as the brachial in its ordinary state, and follows the usual course of that vessel; the other, which proves to be radial, is small, is detached from the side or front of the main trunk, and usually runs for some way along its inner side, before it passes over to the radial side of the arm. In other cases, the radial arises from the inner side of the brachial near the upper third of the humerus, and immediately winds over the trunk to gain the other side. In the cases now described, of all of which the writer has seen numerous examples, the radial artery is usually covered by the tendinous fascia of the upper arm, but in a very few in- stances it pierces the brachial aponeurosis and becomes superficial. In high bifurcations of the brachial artery, the radial is sometimes joined to the ulnar at the bend of the arm, by a transverse branch of considerable magnitude, which furnishes the radial recurrent. Two very remarkable examples of this distribution are represented in the writer’s work on the varieties of arteries. Tiedemann has also represented this anomaly. In one subject which we saw at Clamar, in 1834, the transverse communicating branch joined the ulnar and radial arteries at the lower third of the fore-arm. It may be remarked, that the transverse communication just described, which exists as the normal distribution between the arteries of the corpus callosum, has been found between the vertebrals, just before they form the basilar ; between the primary iliacs, near the bifurcation of the aorta, and between the posterior tibial and fibular arteries, at the lower third of the leg. Near the lower third of the fore-arm the radial artery sometimes turns round the radius, descending along the posterior surface of the boue to the interval between the first and second