170 EXFOLIATION OF BONE. guished by its dark colour, and its different consistence from the surrounding parts. These become inflamed, and secrete pus, until the dead substance is thrown off. ESCHAROTICS. See Caustics. EUSTACHIAN TUBE. See Ear. EVENTRATION, eventratio, from e out of and venter the belly. Strictly speaking, every protrusion of any of the contents of the abdominal cavity ; but the term in its conventional sense implies the passage of a very large portion of the abdominal viscera through an abnormal opening in the parietes, the result of congenital malformation, or ex- tensive mechanical injury. Some authors apply the term to a ventral or umbilical hernia which has attained a very large size. EVISCERATION. — An operation which consists in the removal of the viscera from the body of the foetus during parturi- tion, in order to diminish its bulk, and there- by facilitate delivery. This operation is called for in certain cases of transverse presentations, when the child has become so firmly wedged within the cavity of the pelvis that it is im- possible to introduce the hand for the pur- pose of turning, and it has become evident that the powers of nature, or the resources of art, are insufficient to secure a safe delivery to the mother, without lessening the size of the child. The mode of performance is very simple : a perforator, or a pair of Smellie’s scissors, being carefully carried through one of the intercostal spaces, and an opening cautiously made of sufficient size to admit of the extraction of the thoracic, and if neces- sary of the abdominal viscera. If the powers of the uterus be incapable of completing the expulsion of the child, this will be readily effected by the assistance of the blunt hook. EXCISION (from excidere, to cut off; iKTOfiri, Gr. ; Ausschneidung, Ger.). The re- moval, by cutting instruments, of any part of the body. See Resection. EXCORIATION (ecorchure, Fr. ; Wund- seyne, Ger.). The mechanical removal either of the epidermis or true skin. EXERESIS (from out of; and aipew, I take away). This is a generic term, express- ing the abstraction or removal of any portion of the body, or of any extraneous substance. It includes the various processes of extrac- tion, avulsion, ablation, evacuation, excision, and amputation. EXFOLIATION OF BONE (from t? and e, scjaama'). Syn. Desquamatio, Latin ; Abbldtterung, German. Accidental injurv, and diseased action of various kinds, are followed by disorganization of bone, and the subsequent removal of the dead portion. This separation of a dead portion from the living bone is termed exfoliation. An enume- ration of all its causes will be unnecessary; it will be sufficient to describe only the con- sequences and treatment; and first as regards the pathological anatomy of the osseous system as connected with this subject. Every bone is surrounded by its own proper invest- ing membrane or periosteum, upon which its external layers are partly dependent for their vitality. In explaining the subject of exfoliation, it will be necessary to consider particularly the pathological connexion of this structure with bone. We have not now to consider whether the periosteum be a secreting membrane, or merely a medium through which the blood-vessels are convey- ed, that are concerned in the formation of bone, as well as in maintaining its subsequent vigour. Suffice it for our present purpose to know, that whatever interrupts the connexion of the periosteum with the bony surface to any considerable extent, and for any length of time, occasions the death of the external layers of that bone to the extent of separa- tion, and consequently leads to the detach- ment and throwing off of this dead portion. It does not, however, follow, that in all cases where the periosteum is detached from the bone by external violence, exfoliation must ne- cessarily take place ; for we sometimes see, in severe wounds on the scalp, where the peri- cranium is torn off over even a considerable extent of surface, that if this be quickly replaced, and the parts kept in apposition, union takes place, and no subsequent effect of injury to the bone shows itself afterwards. The immediate re-adjustment of parts, and consequent union by adhesion, appear, how- ever, to be necessary ; as continued separa- tion, the consequence of effusion, or arising from local causes, occasions the death of the subjacent surface of the bone, and its conse- quent removal from surrounding and living parts. This disturbance of the connection of the periosteum with the bone may depend on external injury, or on inflammation of the membrane itself, leading to effusion between it and the bone ; but for a more extensive view of the various causes of the death of bone, the reader is referred to the different articles—Ostitis, Periostitis, Necrosis,&c. As soon as the supply of nourishment to the bone is cut off, the portion that is thus deprived of its vitality becomes a source of irritation to the remaining living bone, and immediately excites inflammation in the sur- rounding bony texture ; and the increased vascular action thus established, is the means by which the separation takes place, and also the source through which the deficiency is supplied. As a result of this altered vascular action, the living bone becomes softened throughout the whole surface in contact with the dead portion, and from this surface granu- lations are produced. The softening that takes place immediately beneath the dead bone is occasioned by the effusion of coagula-