SERIES XIV. THE.^ LONDON t HORACE COX, “QUEEN" OFFICE, BREAM’S BUILDINGS, E.C. Frioe One Shilling.The University Library Leeds ItfEBtfl lAVGEfENrl RiTVRl-l*nl LEEDS UNIVERSITY LIBRARY Classmark: A M 0106 04 6140t -I • . . ■ I ' . ■J-, ♦The Most Delicious Sauce in the World The popularity of this famous sauce results as much from its rich, pungent flavour and the zest it gives to such things as chops, steaks, cutlets, kidneys, fish, and the like, as from the numberless uses to which it can be put in cookery. Don’t take Substitutes. Sole Proprietors: QOODALL, BACKHOUSE, & CO., Leeds.THE “ QUEEN ” COOKERY BOOKS.LIST OF PREVIOUS PARTS, No. 1. Soups. „ 2. Ices. „ 3. Pickles and Peeserves. 4. Entrees. „ 5. Meat and Game. 6. Sweets (Part 1). „ 7. „ (Part 2). 8. Breakfast and Lunch Dishes. „ 9. Salads, Sandwiches, and Savouries. „ 10. Vegetables. „ 11. Oakes and Biscuits. 12. Fish (Part 1). 13. „ (Part 2) (Cold Fish) •91THE “QUEEN” COOKERY BOOKS ft No. 14. HOUSEHOLD HINTS. COLLECTED AND DESCRIBED BT S. BEATY-POWNALL, Departmental Editor “ Housewife and Cuisine,” Queen Newspaper, and Author of “ A Book of Sauces.” LONDON: HOEACE COX, “QUEEN” OFFICE, WINDSOK HOUSE, BREAM’S BUILDINGS, E.C. 1904.Advertisement: BENSON’S SPOONS and FORKS IN IMPERIAL PLATE. Cabinets and Canteens of Plate for the Household at Makers’ Cash Prices, or on “ ®lje system of Monthly Pay- ments, wthout extra charge. See Catalogue Gratis. es & e-i, I.XJDGATE HIEIi, E.C.PEEFACE. Little, if any, originality is claimed for the following recipes, most of which have appeared in the Cookery columns of the Queen during the last eight or nine years, from whence they have been collected at the request of many readers of the Queen, to save reference to back numbers not always within reach. Additional recipes have, how- ever, been given, to bring this little work as much up to date as possible; but all these, like the previous ones, have been carefully tested, and are all (as I know from practical experience) well within the capacity of any ordinary “ good plain cook,” gifted with fair intelligence and a little goodwill. I desire also to take this opportunity of acknow- ledging my indebtedness to the various authors of standard foreign cookery books, and also to offer my grateful thanks to Mrs. A. B. Marshall, and seyeral other well-known chefs, whose kindness has so materially helped and rendered possible my work in these last years. S. Beaty-Pownall. January, 1904.Advertisementn. JWILS9NS SUCCESSORS. UP For a Century at 159, BOND STREET, and now at REGENT STREET, earned a great reputation for ARTISTIC DAMASKS, From Designs by Walter Crane, Lewis Day, Anning Bell. Fine IRISH SHEETING; Excellent HOUSE LINENS and BLANKETS; TASTEFUL CURTAINS; Daintiest of HANDKERCHIEFS. QUALITY AND DESIGN ARE UNAPPROACHED. PBICES WOXDERFULLY 3IODEBATE. ILLUSTRATED CATALOGUE FREE. Or a visit, if only of inspection, will be esteemed.COOTENTS. CHAPTER I. »■*«« Setting up House ... ... ••• 1 CHAPTER II. Servants—Engagement, Duties, &c. ... .. ... 18 CHAPTER III. The Store Room, Larder, &c. ... ... .. 33 CHAPTER IV. The Linen Cupboard... ... ... ... ... ... 46 CHAPTER V. Parlour and House Maids’ Work ... ... ... ... 55 CHAPTER VI. The Offices ... ... ... ... ... ... ••• 80 CHAPTER VII. Various Recipes, &c.... ... ... ... 90Advertisements. D. a F. mustard.. See that Colmaa’s name is oa the Tin.. CORN FLOUR. For Blanc Manges, Custards, &c. ■ Self-Risinff ■ Roup. For Bread, Pastry, Cakes, Puddings, Scones, &c. io8, CANNON STREET, LONDON, and CARROW WORKS, NORWICH.HOUSEHOLD HINTS. CHAPTER I. SETTING UP HOUSE. It is wonderful on first “setting up liouse,” as it is called, how much more difficult one finds the process than it e.ppeared when surveyed impersonally from the outside. That food had to be provided, servants super- intended (and frequently taught from the beginning— though this does not dawn on one till one is within the toils), and the general machinery of the household kept going ill steady, methodical fashion, one knew, of course ; such things are necessities, and, as such, carried out almost automatically by whoever is in charge; and though in our youthful wisdom we may decide that the process as carried out by our elders is capable of improve- ment by the application of modern methods and ways of thought, the idea that a certain apprenticeship will have to be served before the domestic machinery works as smoothly in our hands as even under the guidance of the despised seniors, is about the last thing that strikes us. When, however, we take up the reins our- selves in sad earnest—well, we probably arrive at a closer sympathy with the sensations of Phaeton as he began to realise what driving his father Apollo’s team meant, than we ever expected the tale of the young demi-god’s folly would evoke'! “ A fellow feeling makes B2 HOUSEHOLD HINTS. one wondrous kind,” quoth the old saw, and, if one’s doine.stio attdage lacks the romance attaching to the nery steeds of the sun, we are not long in discovering tiiat for worry and distress, not to say danger, there IS mighty little to< choose between them! Questions arise for which we neither know nor can discover the answer; and the bland official who stands before us professedly “to take our orders,” is not in the least likely to help us to a solution of our diffi- culties. Moreover, as a matter of fairness, how is she competent to do so, being in her way fully as untrained ^ oupelves. It may be added that, if by any chance Jier knowledge and experience are greater it is extremely doubtful if our position is thereby improved, there are exceptions to every rule, we grant, but as a general rnle (and allowing a percentage for such excep- tmns). fully-trained and trustworthy servants seldom if ever, care to take service in a young household They know (no one better!) that in such a case the Herrschaft IS far too ignorant and inexperienced to appreciate properly the trained one’s perfect service. If things go straight and all works well, it naturally proves how correct was young madam’s idea that housekeeping was no intricate problem, but mere child’s play to the train^ mind brought up on the higher education; and the elfacient domestic gets neither kudos nor even intelli- gent appieciation; so off she flits, to become the joy and treasure of some 'more discriminating housewife. For be it said in passing, trained, good, and trustworthy servants are by no means extinct, only the demand exceeds the supply; there are not enough to go round and so the servants can pick and choose, and naturally do choose situations where their services are reckoned at their just value, and fairly recompensed. The efficient one having departed, young madam’s fun (? ) begins. Say it is the cook who has left. Unpunctuality replaces the former clockwork regularity, and mnnsicur begins to wax wrathful over delayed breakfast, late dinner &c. a further sting being added to his feelings by the fact that, when the belated food does turn up, it is either law or _a cinder, or, if it escapes these extremes, is unappetising from careless or imperfect cookery. More- over, the same argument appliesi to everj' other servant, whatever their class. In larger houses, where men are kept, monsieur is pretty sure in the long run to hear rumours of war and strife below stairs, and as he, likeSETTING UP HOUSE. :i his better lialf, is blissfully unconscious that house- keeping is not necessarily bora witli every woman, but is an art to be acquired, be is first puzzled, then worried, and, lastly, cross. Believe it who will, it is nevertb^ less a solemn fact that more domestic happiness is wrecked yearly over housekeeping than over any other rock, be it what it may, in life’s ocean. Before setting up house, it is as well to set down one’s expenses. There are certain averages concerning these expenses, did one but know it, though it must be at once admitted that in the present day these ideals are impossible to car^ out perfectly; still, the nearer we can aiTive at the ideal condition, the more gracious will be our estate. To begin with, rent should, roughly speaking, be covered by a tenth of the actual income. Formerly this sum was supposed to clear all expenses connected with the liouse, such as rates, taxes, &c. Now, alas! it is barely, if even nearly, suflBcient to cover the payment for the house alone, and a further sum, delusively reckoned as a third of the net rent (this seldom, if ever, is enough in towns), has to be set aside for these necessary evils. Servants’ wages, again, are reckoned at about a twelfth of the net income. Food will take quite a third, this, however, including laundry. Light and fuel juay be reckoned at one-thirtieth of the total income. Let us work this out on the basis of an income of £1200 a year. Kent, at one-tenth £120 Hates and taxes, one-third ot rent 40 Wages, one-twelfth of income 100 Food and laundry, one-third ot income 400 Dress, <Sc., one-twelfth for each, say 200 Light and fuel, one-thirtieth 40 Total £900 Thus leaving one fourth, i.e., £300, for doctor, wine, subscriptions, travelling, &c. This is the ideal dis- tribution of the income, but, as said above, it is very seldom possible to work it out exactly. Circumstances alter cases. For instance, the above is taken on the basis of a couple, with four servants, living thoroughly comfortably, though not extravagantly; but naturally the sums given will have to be manipulated as the family grows, and little feet have to be shod, little mouths filled, and schooling has to be considered. Still, with intelli- gent good-will, the above estimate allows a fair margin for extras, and, if the income affords no prospect ofHOUSEHOLD HINTS. 4 increase as time goes on, such extras must be taken into account from tlie first, and, as far as possible, pro- vided for. For instance, the food and laundry allow- ance given above would allow a young couple to enter- tain in a comfortable, if modest fashion, and demand no very .stringent domestic economy, so that, as madam’s housewifely experience grew, she would find it quite possible to manage on the same sum and yet feed more mouths. Of course, the entertaining would have to be diminished, and a .somewliat stricter supervision exer- cised on the various items of tlio domestic budget. Moreover, the matter of w^es would iiave to be looked into rather closer. Still, it is being done pretty generally, and need involve no verj-^ appalling amount of trouble on the housekeeper, who must, however, be prepared to take up the position of practical head of the household in the house, and not to depute her duties to any servants, however skilful and confidential. As in everything else, perfection is no more attain- able in the liou.se than outside it, and it is frankly admitted froin the fii-st that the above are counsels of perfection; still, the nearer the housewife can fit her means to these figures the more comfortable will her life be, and the more restful and satisfactory the home over which she presides. The one subject of more perennial interest to the housekeeper than another is, presumably, that of the household allowances. Who. does not know the despair- ing cry: “ What should my weekly books amount to ? What is a fair consumption of such and such stores for a week, a month, &c. ?” Unfortunately, though easy enough to ask, such queries are by no means ca,sy to answer. Cii'cumstances alter cases, and tastes and habits vary, not only with evei’y family, but, indeed, with every individual unit of that family, and each variation, however slight, affects the total. The best one can do is to give a rough average, compiled by collating the best authorities, at the same time warning the inquirer that such averages must admit of a certain elasticity; for hard and fast rules can only be ensured in very large establishments and institutions, where the inmates must be taken, so to speak, in the lump, and they fitted to circumstances—not circumstances bent to suit their idiosyncrasies, as should be the case in small families. Now, to take the average comfortable family in aSETTING UP HOUSE. 5 good position, tlio scale of living runs somewhat on these lines. Upstairs: lircahfast, tea or coffee, or both, bread, hot rolls, one or two hot dishes, and one, at least, cold on tlie sideboard; lunch (where there are children), the kitchen joint, vegetables, and pudding, with cheese, butter, and perhaps a cake or some cheap fruit: five o’clock tea, tea, hot cakes or toast, sandwiches, bread and butter, cake, and little fancy cakes; dmaer, soup or fish, or both, one or two entrees, poultry, joint, or game, a salad or some vegetable entremet, a sweet or a savoury, or both. For this scale the downstair meals would be broad and butter, tea or cocoa, and either bacon (fried or cold), eggs, dried or fresh fish, or sausages, for breakfast; a joint and pudding, or fish and meat, or soup and meat, with, at least, one vegetable, for dinner; tea, bread and butter or jam, dripping cake or toast, or, in summer, some green food, such as mustard and cress, watercress, &c., for tea; and for supper, bread and butter, cheese, or jam, cocoa, and any little dainty left over from upstairs; this is if there are women only; if there are men, cold meat, or some- thing of that sort, will have to be provided for the last meal. (It may be observed that in some households a plain bread and butter, jam, and watercress breakfast is provided, the “relish” otherudse given being trans- ferred to the last meal, supper. But this depends on individual tast-es, and often on the cook.) Besides these four regular meals, servants are very fond of introducing a fifth, at 11 or 11.30 a.m. Now, where the breakfast is early, say, at 7.30, and where the meal leads neither to undue waste of time nor of food material, the mistress is wdse who passes this arrangement over unnoticed. As long as the supplies last out fairly well, and it is not a recegnised, sit-down meal like breakfast or dinner, well and good. It is well to allow good servants some law in the management of their own affairs; it takes off the machine-made monotony of existence below stairs, which is one of the great complaints brought by servants against domestic service, and truly, in not a few houses, the complaint is a fairly just one. Another complaint is the lack of personal freedom. Life is, by some mistresses, mapped out to the uttermost minute, so that there is no encouragement to a clever servant to get through her work ; for, as soon as one task is done, another rises before her, with a vista of peaks behind like a panorama of the Alps, so that she gets hope-6 HOUSEHOLD HINTS. less and just grinds along, getting through the minimum in the slackest way, and losing all spring and energy. If mistresses would but realise that they have made a compact with their servants for so much work of a certain kind, and not a bargain that gives them a claim on every scrap of the woman’s time (even after the thorough fulfilment of the prescribed work), they would oe far better and more obeerfully served. This, how- ever, is by the way. To return to the food question. The style of living given overleaf may be comfortably managed on sums varying from 12s. Gd. to 21s. a head weekly upstairs, according to sex, and from 8s. to 14s. a head downstairs, weekly. A careful, clever manager will do' it on the lesser sum, a less careful one on Sie larger one; and tlure will very likely be but little apparent difference between the style of living in the respective households, though a close inspection may reveal the fact that somewhat more attention is bestowed on the housekeeping by the mistress expending the lesser sum, and that dishes are possibly fitted-in more carefully than in the other case. But practically the balance of comfort will be about the same, perhaps even inclining a trifle in favour of the lady who does her own housekeeping and takes a pride in the daintiness of her menage. The ordinary food allowances run pretty much as follows: Tea, coffee, or cocoa, 4oz. a head weekly. It must be remembered that this, however, supposes that ingredients of really good quality (not necessarily extravagant price) are given; cheap stuff will neither be as pleasant to the consumer, nor as thrifty; cheap tea, cocoa, &c., will nob go nearly as far, and is in these days rather a disgrace, when for good quality, especially if bought in bulk (the best way of buying tea), the cost is relatively so small. Cocoa is best bought in tins (air-tight) containing sufficient for a week’s consumption. If bought in bulk coffee should be in the berry (unroasted); it is but little trouble to roast, and grind as wanted. If, however, it is bought ready in small quantities it should be, like the cocoa, kept in air- tight canisters, containing at the utmost a week’s con- sumption for stale coffee is, beyond all things, flat and unprofitable. It is, in great measure, to its freshness than the superiority of coffee abroad is due, for, as far as the actual quality goes, there is really little to choose. Butter, ilb. a head weekly, with ^Ib. to lib. extra for7 SETTING UP HOUSE. cooking purposes, is, especially where the family is fairly large, a good working average, though, if butter- soaked scones, or toast, are allowed for tea, either upiitairs or down, or butter is used for basting or frying, these facts will have to be taken into consideration; the same remark applies tO' occasions when entertaining on a large scale is going on, for one cannot make the ricliest sauces, such as supreme, &c., without butter, and that of nrst-rate quality, moreover. Still, a good deal may be done, as Jeanie Deans o>bseiwed, by “timing ain's turns,” i.e., if you have to be extravagant, or, rather, extra liberal in one way, balance this by economy in some other direction, so as, at all events, to keep the average fairly equal. Now, it must be understood that all these allowances are reckoned for a household where the mistress takes an intelligent interest in her house- keeping, and will neither permit nor afford extravagance or waste. It must be plainly stated that economy is inpossible in an establishment where the mistress does not look into things herself, with knowledge and atten- tion; unless, of course, her housekeeping is on so large a scale as tO' be practically a business concern, and, as such, run on business lines. This is the case in some large households, and a very clever upper middle-class housekeeper once roundly asserted that she “never got such a good cook as she did by engaging a kitchenmaid from a certain ducal household.” Her explanation was that the housekeeper (professional, of course), being I'esponsible for the due average of the expenses, took very good care that all under her charge should know exactly what the allowances were, and keep within them ! With a clear head and a finu hand of this kind at the head of affairs, it is wonderful how well the domestic machine will work. Of Sugar, the allowance runs from ilb. to 11b. a head weekly, and this (the latter especially) is comfortably ample for everything. Of course, this includes loaf, caster, and Demerara sugar, but does not, as a rule, include icing sugar. Bread is a very difficult thing to apportion, as tastes differ so much, some people almost living on it, whilst others again hardly touch it. The old rule was Id. a day a head, and for actual bread this works out satis- factorily, though some housekeepers prefer to reckon it at lib. a day a head for women and 21b. for men. For Milk, one-third of a pint has long been the usualHOUSEHOLD HINTS. 8 allowance, though, as a matter of fact^ a quart a week a head for adults is generally found sufnoient. But hero again varying habits must be taken into cojisideration. This quantity of milk was reckoned in the days when beer, or its equivalent, was invariably given, and adults only drank milk with their tea or coffee. Nowadays in many houses where “No beer or beer money” is the rule, a larger proportion of milk is permitted; at the same time, the fact that milk (especially new or unskinmed milk) is a food far more than a drink should be bcrne in mind, both in the kitchen and the nursery. Far more childish ailments than mothers wot of are due to children, past the milk diet stage, being allowed to drink pure milk freely as an accompaniment to a generous diet of meat, vegetables, and puddings, with the natural consequence—upset digestions. Where however, children are, from age or ill-health, dependent on a milk diet, a quart of pure milk a day a head is no extravagant average. An unstinted supply of pure, wholesome milk is the secret of health in later years, but it must be given as what it is, the staple food, not as an extra to an already generous diet. In the country skimmed cr buttermilk is an excellent beverage for children past the milk food age, and, indeed, for adults also. Remember also that, if “glasses of milk,” very milky puddings, or cafe au lait, &c., are the rule upstairs, these must be allowed for extra in the milk bill; also the fact that the dining-room sets the fashion for the servants’ hall, which must all be taken into consideration. Bacon, if the principal addition allowed at breakfast, should be calculated at 11b. a head weekly. The average slice is generally reckoned at from loz. to l^oz. So the 11b. a head is a fair allowance. Sausages, again, run six to the lib., and even for a man Ub. for break- fast is generally more than ample, and few women would take as much. Of course, the bacon need not be always fried or broiled. Needless, presumably, to add that in these, as in all allowances, a hard and fast line should not be drawn ; you cannot, and need not, measure the slices of bacon or count the sausages, but one must have some sort of guide by which to reckon up the needful quantities and to check the expenditure. Meat.—For this, the allowance of from Hh. to Jib. a head daily sounds rather a small one, but it will be found at the week’s end, in a well-kept house (of not9 SETTING UP HOUSE. less than four or five persons), , where the family consists of women and children only, quite sufficient for comfort; wliilst with men the larger amount will be equally ample. This, however, must depend a good deal on the style of living. If for dietetic or otlier reasons only fresh- cooked meat is allowed, your butcher’s bill will be appre- ciablj' larger than when rechauffes and little dishes are liked; moreover, please remember that, in the average household, if fresh meat is ch rigueur upstairs, it will also be a sine qua non below. Another factor to be taken into consideration is poultry, game, &c., in its season, and these must always be taken into account when reckoning up the butcher’s bill. Small birds, game, &c., which contain a larger proportion of bone than flesh, and fish (which also must be reckoned for) are, weight for weight, below butcher’s meat in nutri- tive value, though large, solid birds such as turkeys, &c., will, after drawing, rank with tne same weight of beef or mutton. A good plan, where it is necessary to keep one’s house- keeping as much as possible within fixed limits, is to parcel out the butcher’s book according to the amount of meat you wish to have for the week balancing the more expensive joints by others, equal in quality if properly treated, but lower in price, though cut from the same animal. Say, for instance, you are two in family and four in the kitchen; this, by the lower estimate, would mean 3Jlb. a head weekly, or 211b. for the entire household (of course, at the higher estimate, you must allow 5Jlb. a head, or a total of Sljlb., or say, roughly, 321b. weekly, but the principle would be the same). On Monday order a leg of mutton, weighing, say, 81b., and a good piece of the “leg of mutton piece,” or the round of beef, as you please, from 61b. to 71b. in weight, which is allowed to hang, and can be cut from as required; whilst, towards the middle or end of the week, you would probably order a shoulder of mutton of 51b., and 21b. of fillet of veal. Tlie piece of beef will supply a good beefsteak pudding, some beef olives, and a good pie for Sunday. Next week you might have a whole neck of mutton, Gib. in weight (using the cutlets for dinner, and making the rest, with the cutlet trim- mings, into haricot or Irish stew), a loin, or a Iboiled leg, of pork, of 71b., with 61b. or 71b. of sirloin, and a fowl or some birds, to make up the allowance of meat. These arrangements, of course, presuppose nicely-made hashes.HOUSEHOLD HINTS. 10 meat au gratin, curries, and such like, and, granted these, will be found ample. Naturally, however, where sucili smaller dishes are not permissible, even with women only, you must reckon on requiring tne larger average. Where re-cooked meat is forbidden, and plain roast, boiled, or broiled meat is insisted on, it is best not to get too large joints, as cold meat becomes a weariness. 1 do not for one minute mean that these items are to be religiously followed out, week after week, but they are simply intended to explain the parcelling out of your butcher's book, with due regard to. economy. If you have a large proportion of men, especially if there are menservants, and a good deal of coming and going in the house, you may lay your account to an average of 11b. a head a day; but remember, in all these cases, there should be a fair amount of dripping, and where economy is necessary, the use of this must be insisted on. (I may have a few words to say later on the subject of perquisites, of which dripping is a chief one.) It cannot be too finnly impressed on your cook’s mind that there is no better frying material, for fish especially, than good, clarified dripping; indeed, so eminent a chef as M. Jules Gouffe directs that even the fat skimmed off the surface of stock, when in process of making, should always be set aside for use, as being, with drip- ping, one of the best forms of friture; and what so eminent a chef lays down as a rule for such aristocratic cuisines as he presided over, is surely worth attending to in ordinary hfe. Dripping is also useful for household pastry, cakes, &o., and is, when home-made and well clarified, infinitely to be prefei-red to the “cooking butter” and lard (in other words, rendered-down pigs’ fat), so dear tO' the self-styled “high-class” cook. If any taste betrays its origin, the blame lies with_ the cook’s ignorance or carelessness. I have dilated on this subject, as the butcher’s bill is usually the great crux in housekeeping, but a word or two must be added on the vexed question of foreign meat. It may be admitted at once that nothing comes up to prime home (and carefully) fed beef and mutton, but, unfortunately, this is daily growing rarer and more expensive, for the supply is not actually equal to the demand, conse- quently, one must look round to supply the deficiency. Many housewives, and most servants, have a rooted anti- pathy to foreign meat of any kind. This is chiefly the result of ignorance, and of the feeling, instinctive in so11 SETTING UP HOUSE. many of us, that “cheap” necessarily implies “nasty.” “Foreign meat is cheaper than the home-grown, e?!70 it is inferior,” is their argument. But tiiey fail to remember that cattle and sheep abroad, whioh cam be fed on admirable pasture (chietly m the open, owing to the difference of climate), and require only a small proportion of the care and expense necessarily involved in these days in the breeding of cattle, &c., at home, are therefore, to start with, infinitely cheaper than our own; moreover, such animals are nowadays fully as care- fully bred, the best strains being lavishly imported; whilst the science and study bestowed on the methods of transport allow of the meat being brought to our doors with practically little deterioration. In most cases, when the animals do not come over alive, the cold- storage principle is applied—a vei-y different method from the original system of freezing, used when meat was first imported years ago. One point that illus- trates rather luridly the importance of the foreign meat ti'ade is provided by statistics published some little time since. An exact return was given of the foreign meat imported, and of the actual liome-bred beef and mutton supplied to the wholesale markets, together with a retuni of the total amount of both, overtly, sold retail. Unfortunately, on collating these figures, it was evident that the quantity of meat openly sold in retail estab- lishments as foreign was wonderfully below the amount known to have been imported wholesale, whilst the quantities of the retail home-grown were largely in excess of any amount sent to the wholesale market. 1 leave the natural inference to the intelligence of my readers. Vegetables, again, are not easy to apportion. The con- sumption of potatoes varies as much as the demand for bread in a household, and is therefore impossible to give exactly. Roughly speaking, however, 3^1b. a head weekly is a fair working average, remembering that this implies good-sized ones, which run about three to the pound. But, as said before, this can never be reckoned on closely, for one person will eat (fairly and without waste) quite twice as much as another. It will, however, be found, in the long run, that this is balanced either by a corresponding decrease in other things, or by the lesser consumption of other members of the household. With regard to other vegetables, it is difficult to give definite advice. We all know that the Britisher con- sumes a large amount of butcher’s meat when he or sheHOUSEHOLD HINTS. 12 gets a chance—far more, in fact, than his or her health requires—and would b© much healthier were the’pro- portion of vegetables eaten enlarged at the expense of beef and mutton; but, though you may get housewives to acknowledge this fact, and though the dining-room may be supplied with green vegetables nightly, most ladies consider potatoes amply sufficient for the needs of kitchen and nursery. This, of course, is often due to the necessity of keeping down the weekly bills—a serious matter with most of us—but, in truth, the expense is not nearly so large as is imagined. Even in towns, about a halfpenny a head daily would give a vegetable course to children and maids, to the manifest advantage of their health and well-being. Of course, this does not imply asparagus or green peas at the beginning of the season: but, if the greengrocer is made to bring round a list of the daily supply of vegetables and their prices when he comes for orders, it is easy enough to see what green food will come within the prescribed limits. Whilst, if there is a garden, there should never be any lack of such additions to the daily bill of fare, as soon as you have made the cook understand that you insist on it, and enforce the fact by having the same vegetable for the kitchen as for lunch and nursery dinner. But I must say, in the course of long experi- ence, I have seldom had trouble in this matter. Cheese.—For this the usual allowance is Uh. a head weekly, though where butcher’s meat is not allowed for supper, this amount is often doubled. Soap.—Half a pound weekly for each servant is a rough estimate, and covers both working and personal use, on condition that it is kept for some time before use, for new soap wastes fearfully. It should be bought in quantities, and cut up as soon as brought home, being then stowed away, so that the air can get all round to dry it. Moreover, strict orders must be given, and as strictly enforced, that the pieces are not left lying in pails, tubs, sinks, &c., as this is a patent source of waste, and is, moreover, on© of the most common causes for stoppages in pipes, drains, &c. Candles, Light, Oil, cbc.—-Concerning these, it is diffi- cult to give any very definite advice. It may be observed, however, that, if of good quality, the ordinary bedroom candle (eight to the pound) burns about four and a half hours. Oil is another article best and most economically bought in bulk, if you have safe and con-SETTING UP HOUSE. 13 venient storag© for th© 40-gallon cask in which it is usually sent. This should be stored away from the house, the amount needed for daily consumption being drawn off and brought into the house in the morning. (Never allow any cleaning or filling of lamps to take place, save in daylight!) It is easy to measure the consump- tion, granted a little trouble, by filling each lamp, and then seeing how long it will burn. Of course, the amount must be measured before refilling the lamp. TFood.—Of this, twenty-eight bundles usually go to the shilling, or more if bought by tlie 100 bundles, and a bundle of wood should certainly light two fires, whilst I have known a careful housemaid make one do for three. Coals.—The consumption of these is a vexed question, and one, moreover, that it is very difficult to settle. In two houses of the same size, and burning the same number of fires, the consumption in one may be exactly double that of the other, and with no appaa-ent dis- honesty or waste. It is a question mostly of ranges and grates. I know, from personal experience, that in my own house a change of range, from an old, badly-planned one to a modern and well-designed one, produced a difference of exactly half, i.e., the old one burnt over Icwt. a day whilst with the new one, under the same regime and the same conditions, the consumption sank to exactly half; and, I may add, with much increased com- fort, both to the cook and the housekeeper. Two other factors in the consumption of coal are dirty flues and the neglect of cinders. Soot is a non-conductor, and dirty, i.e., sooty, flues involve much larger fires both for heat- ing the oven and the boiler. When difficulties arise with regard to the bath water (a constant source of domestic friction), before sending for workmen, or blaming the range, see for yourself that the damper leading to the bath-pipes is open, and that the flues are free from caked soot. If, after this, the water still refuses to heat, then (but then only) send for the workmen and have the range looked to, for in that case the hath-pipes them- selves may he chokeel from some cause, and, if neglected, trouble is pretty certain to follow. With regard to the cinders mentioned above, please remember, and also make your maids undei'stand, that cindei-s are not the .same as a.dtes. Ashes are of use in many ways, such as for scouring pots and pans, &c., but they are useless in the range or grate. Cinders, on the contrary, are admirable both for lighting a fire, in the first instance,14 HOUSEHOLD HINTS. and for producing a clear, steady fire for broiling or stewing in the kitchen, and also as fuel in sitting and bedrooms. For this rea.son, a cinder-sifter sliould form part of the working outfit of both cook and house- maid. This utensil—a wooden box on rockers, with a tight-fitting lid, and a wire riddle or sieve inside—should always be at hand when range or grate is cleaned, as the eontents of the grate are put straight into it, the lid fitted on, and then, without dust or trouble, the cinders are separated from the ashes, and the former can be utilised at onoe in laying the fire. Where this is acted upon, ^cwt. will be found ample (for a kitchen-range cooking for ten to twelve people, with late dinner) for a day’s consumption. This I know from personal experi- ence with a good cook, who, however, used her cinaers, and always kept a small fire when there was no cooking going on. As an average, one may reckon four large tkitchen) or six ordinary bedroom scuttles to_ the hundredweight of coal. Where there is no late dinner or hot supper the consumption of coal should be fully one-thii'd less. A good, medium-sized, slow-combustion stove will in a sitting-room, in ordinary weather, use a scuttle of coals a day, which, at six scuttles to the hundredweight, would mean a quarter of a ton a month ; but in cold weather this would be doubled This is for the whole day; the bedroom consumption must depend on how long fires are required, but may be reckoned on the same scale. Old-fashioned or large grates would, of course, use more. It may, perhaps, be well just to repeat the average allowances, shortly: Tea, Coffee, or Cocoa: 4oz. a head weekly. Sugar: ^Ib. to 11b. a head weekly. Milk: One-third of a pint daily for adults, froin one pint to one quart a head for children, exclusive of cooking, if milky puddings or indiscriminate “tumblers of milk,” &c., are in vogue. Butter: ilb. a head weekly, inelusive of cooking in a large family; in a small one allow from ^Ib. to 11b. extra weekly. Cheese: From Ub. to lib. a head weekly, according to whether you allow meat suppers or not. Bacon : 11b. a head weekly (for breakfasts). Bread: About Hb. 2oz. daily, or 81b. weekly, for women, double for men. Meat: From 3ilb. to 5ilb. weekly a head; anythingSETTING UP HOUSE. 15 over 7Ib. a head weekly generally indicates waste, mis- management, or dishonesty. Potatoes: Prom 3ilb. to ojlb. a head weekly. Wood: One bundle for two' fires. Coal: From iowt. to fcwt. daily for kitchen, unless for a very large house; four large or six small scuttles to the hundredweight. Beer, when given, is reckoned at a gallon a head weekly for women, and one quart a day for men a head. For groceries it is difficult to decide. An old, and very fair, rule was that Id. a day a head should cover the bread bill (needless to say, this does not include flour for cakes, sauces, &o.), and Is. 6d. a head weekly the grocer’s bill for tea, sugar, and the ordinary groceries, such as rice, semolina, tapiooa, cruet sauces, barley, spice, &c., and, in the long rim, this works out very fairly, but does not, of course, cover such extras as olives, pate de foie gras, &c. For washing the usual allowance is Is. to Is. 6d. a week for women, and 2s. to 2s. 6d. weekly a head for men. A nurse wearing white clothes would rank as a man. If the washing is done at home, the general allow- ance a head is, for women, a complete change of under- clothing, three collars, twoi pairs of cuffs, two caps, two aprons, and one print dress weekly. Of course, this must he somewhat elastic. For instance, a parlour- maid might need more muslin aprons, collars, cuffs, and caps, whilst a cook might be allowed three prints in the fortnight. But this is matter for individual arrange- ment. The allowance for men is the same, with the addition of two to three white shirts weekl,y, and for the footman (when worn), a washing suit a week. Given the above averages, it is fairly easy to make out a list of the weekly requirements, modifying them as your experience increases to suit the special tastes cf your family, for it cannot be too strongly impressed on the novice that a hard and fast line is impossible to draw up, at all events, by anyone unacquainted with the ms and outs of the menage. Circumstances alter cases, but so long as you can reckon up your weekly bills by the above averages, and find the totals keep pretty well correct, you may feel things are going on correctly, even though you may discover that your bread bill is lower and your greengrocer (perhaps) higher than it should be. I have been told that, as a rule, housekeep-16 HOUSEHOLD HINTS. ing works out on the following lines: Butcher, one-third; grocer, one-fifth; dairy, one-fifth; baker, one-ninth; greengrocer and fishmonger, each, one-fourteenth of the total sum allowed for the housekeeping. From experi- ence, I can say that this really does come out about right, though items vary; for instance, in my case the baker and fishmonger usually exchange places. But, of course, a very little practice enables one to, so to speak, average one’s averages. To show how this works out. say you have a household of five servants, master and mistress, two half-grown sons, and a grown-up daughter, with occasional visitors, and an allowance of £7 weekly, you would reckon £6 for the weekly food bills, and appor- tion thus: Butcher. £2; grocer, £1 4s.; milk, cream, eggs. &c., £1 4s. ; baker, cakes, &c., 14s.; greengrocer, 9s.; fishmonger, 9s.; total, £6. This would allow of comfort, and no stint, though, of course, as I say, the family tastes might change round some of the minor expenses, according to whether fish, vegetables, or bread were most favoured. Lastly, there is the vexed question of payment; ready money or credit. It may be at once admitted that the first is the ideal method; but one lives in a real and not an ideal world, and must, as the immortal Mrs. Gamp says, “Take the consequences of the sitivation, my dear!” In short, one must arrive at a compromise. Of course, the much-quoted French mhiagere is a strictly ready-money customer, but her way of life must be taken into consideration. If one could manage with an early tea and roll meal, the clwta hazri of the Anglo-Indian, it would be practical enough, but our daily life is arranged on different lines, and nothing short of a social revolution would render such housekeeping possible. Under these circumstances, weekly books, strictly adhered to, appear to produce the best results all round. Money coming in regularly every week is practically ready money to the tradesman, and he will do a good deal to content such a customer, especially if the latter shows herself thoroughly sure of what she wants, and determined (even at the cost of a little personal dis- comfort) to secure it. A price-list should be obtained from the butcher, baker, and laundry, whilst it will be found that, for determined customers, fishmongers and greengrocers possess daily lists, which will enable one to see which things are most plentiful, and consequently cheapest, that day. It is well resolutely to insist that17 SETTING UP HOUSE. when a certain weight is oi'dered it should be adhered to. A common trick is either to send a joint largely in excess of that ordered, though probably, from excess of bone, fat, &c., less thrifty than a smaller joint; or, with a somewhat lighter joint, to send a “makeweight,” piece of bone, or stock meat, which may (or may not!) come in for soup or gravy, but is, all the same, charged at the price of the prime cut ordered. Moreover, where the housekeeper is not wide awake, even this is ignored, and, if complaint is made, the messenger is blamed, who promptly exculpates himself on the plea that “it got loose from the ticket, and he did not know whose it was!” A careful housewife seldom gets makeweights, or, if she does, the mistake is not repeated, and is amply atoned for; the careless or ignorant one suffers from this mistake (F) on all sides, in fish, flesh, or fowl, to say nothing of vegetables! cnot have so long to wait for it, either.” I can testify CHAPTEli II. SEEVANTS—ENGAGEMENT, DUTIES, &c. It is impossible in a manual of this kind to do more than give a sketch of the reciprocal duties of employers and servants, but, so far as they go, these hints will be found trustworthy. To begin with the engagement of servants. A mistress cannot be too particular in her inquiries as to the antecedents of the person she pro- poses taking intO' her household; and, unlikely as it may seem to her, this particularity will do her no harm in the eyes of respectable domestics. No class is quicker in summing up the characteristics of the ladies and gentle- men they come in contact with, or in appreciating the merits of gentle birth and breeding. Strange as it may seem to many mistresses, smart clotlies and extra indul- genoes are by no means sueh factors in servants’ decisions as many ladies imagine. They appraise the eagerness to get a servant, tel qioel, which leads to seanty investiga- tions, roseate views of the place in prospect, &c., pretty sharply and correctly. A well-known and most respected registry office keeper once said to me: “ Never show jmurseif too eager to secure a maid, ma’am; and, above all, never be slack in the matter of a personal character. Maids at once put that down to your need for a servant, and discount everything you say o-n that account. The lady who is most particular, in reason, inquires most carefully into the maid’s former service, and explains most clearly wliat she wants and intends to have, show- ing, at the same time, that a respectable servant is of more importance to her than the prompt filling up of her vacancy, is pretty sure to get what she wants, and19 SERVANTS—ENGAGEMENT, &c. from llio experience of over a quarter of a century’s housekeeping to the wisdom of licr words. Before starting to look for a servant make out a list of the duties you want her to fulfil, and another of the habits and customs of your family, the outings, holidays, visitors, &c., together with the wages, allowances, wearing of caps, &c. Insist on a personal character. AVritten testimonials can never be relied o^n; moreover, even if a written character is necessary, from the mis- tress having gone abroad or from death, there will always be some friend or connection of the last mistress who will testify to the genuineness of the character given. It is a liard thing to say, but the addresses and individualities of such references should always be strictly inquired into. The police can tell weird tales of “personal characters” given by smartly-dressed women in unexceptionable houses, who have proved to be friends of the servant in question masquerading, during the real mistress’s absence, in the clotlies and personality of the latter. I knew of a case where a character was offered from a lady of position, living in an unexceptionable neighbourhood; evei-ything seemed eii regie,, and my friend knew from mntual acquaintance that the lady was all that was claimed for her, and actually in town. So she thought nothing of it when, in reply to her letter asking for an interview, the lady proffered a call, to save time for “the poor girl, in whom she was so interested.” On the day specified a well- turned-out carriage drove up, a well-dressed, well- mannered gentlewoman came in, and answered all ques- tions in the frankest manner, giving a good (but not too good) character, explaining her reasons for parting with the girl in question, &c., with the result that the girl was engaged. As she was dismissed summarily, for dis- honesty and other grave faults, my friend visited the late mistress to tell her her experience. 'The lady was an absolute stranger, and had never even heard of the girl! Of course, the police were called in, and it pi'oved that the soi-disant lady was Lady ^’s maid, who had used her carriage, by the help of her brother-ru-law the coachman, to secure a place for a friend, whose character was too notorious to allow of her getting a reference by fair means! Moreover, seeing the house from which the g'rl comes (together with the appearance and manners of the late mistress) acts as a valuable ground for forming an c 220 HOUSEHOLD HINTS. opinion of the maid’s training, &c., whilst, naturally, ladies will give far more information orally than they will by letter. By the way, if it is necessary for any reason to write to the late mistress, be careful to make out a regular list of questions, each requiring a cate- gorical answer, and keep a copy, so that you may see exactly wliich aro answered definitely and which are shirked. Many ladies are terribly afraid of writing characters, having the law of libel before their eyes; so it is well to state clearly that a “character” is a privileged communicalion,, and no action will lie, unless the sem'ant can prove malice or bad faith on the part of her late employer. In fact, so careful is the law in this matter, that, even should the character be absolutely untrue, there can be no action if the employer gave it through ignorance, and in perfect good faith. Of course, the employer has also the power to refuse a character altogether, and cannot by any means be com- pelled to give one. Needless to say, this is a power that should only be used in the direst need, for it practicaOy ruins the servant. It must be remembered also that the giving of a false character, no matter for what charitable (?) reason, lays the giver open to an action on the part of the next exployer if the servant should rob or otherwise injure that employer; wliilst any individual personating an employer, or using such employer’s authority without leave, to give a fraudulent character, lays him or herself open to a criminal prosecution. It cannot be too strictly impressed on ladies that their duty is to give a true and exact character, both for the sake of the servant and of the prospective mistress. Unfortunately, a good many ladies act on the spirit (if they do not actually use the words) of caveat emptor! and see no great harm in giving an unduly charitable (? ) view of the outgoing domestic’s character as a quiet and easy method of getting rid of an undesirable hanger-on. If engaged in the ordinary way, the servant may, if unsatisfactory, be got rid of either by a month’s notice dating from the day on which the notice is given, or by payment of a montli’s wage (phts the sum due since the last payment of wages). Tliis dismissal with a month’s wages does not, however, give the servant any claim for board wages. This may seem strange, for, if a month’s notice be given, the ser\'ant gets board as well os wages; the legal fact, however, is as stated. Hlness, and consequent inability to fulfil the requisiteSERVANTS—ENGAGEMENT, &c. 21 work, is not a legal justification for th© discharge of a servant, unless the illness is of such a kind as to render such servant entirely and permanently unfit for duty, or is the definite result of the immorality or bad conduct of that sei’vant. As long as there is a reasonable chance of the person being able to return and adequately fulfil his or her duties, even if the illness renders a holiday necessary, the employer is not justified in discharging such servant. It must, however, be borne in mind that, though entitled to wages at the yearly rate during absence on account of illness, such servant cannot legally claim hoard wages for the period of such absence; nor is the employer bound to provide either medicine or medical attendance for a servant, unless there is a special agreement to do so at the time of engage- ment. Of course, if the employer requests a doctor to attend his servant, or pays the chemist for medicine, &c., supplied to such servant at any time, the doctor or chemist would be justified in considering the owner liable for such expenses. It must be remembered, at the same time, that the above rules as to illness in no way interfere with the employer’s right to give a month’s warning, or wage.?, at any time. One more point deserves consideration, and this is the liability of employers for orders given by their servants to tradesmen. In cases of urgency requiring instant attention, such as the burst- ing of water pipes, &c., orders for repairs given by servants, or, indeed, for tliat matter by even a stranger, would be held to be given by the employer’s authority. If, again, servants have been allowed to give ordere for repairs, materials, stores, &c., and the employer has paid th© expenses involved by such orders from time to time without remark, the tradespeople are justified in assuming the liability of the employer. A serious point to he considered is perquisites. Many employers appear to consider these a kind of vested interest, which may not legally be interfered with. This is a mistake. One of the chief of these is the “ com- mission” many servants consider themselves justified in demanding from the tradesmen with whom their employers deal. Now, this is neither more nor less than bribery and dishonesty. The higher the tradesman’s hill the higher is th© servant’s commission, and in con.se- quence the greater the temptation to overlook care- lessness and mistakes on the part of the tradesman, and to encourage unnecessary ancj extravagant consumptionHOUSEHOLD HINTS. 22 of household material. This sliould be at once checked on discovery by the dismissal of the servant and the leaving of the tradesman. Next to “commission” come perquisites, and these are far more general than mis- tresses are aware of. Cook refuses to use dripping for pastJ'y, frying, &c., or bones for .soup, affirming (utterly falsely) that neither substance can bo used in a soigne kitciicn. Where this assertion docs not proceed from ignorance (as it sometimes, if rarely, does), it is sheer dishonesty. The bones and the dripping have a distinct mai’ketable value, as the cook well knows, which she pockets, whilst her refusal to use the dripping, &c., involves the use of more butter, lard, &c., from the buttennan and stock meat from the butcher, and the consequent increase of her percentage on both bills. You pay for the meat, &c., so why should you put a further sum into the already sufficiently well-lined pockets of your dome.stic tyrant, the cook? But your objection to this vicarious generosity must be made perfectly clear at the time of engagement, and “No perquisites” must be plainly stated from the very first. It must be added that the perquisite question affects cvci’y class of servant, male and female, and, if unchecked, leads to most unpleasant and unexpected developments. It is, moreover, in process of becoming a “vested interest,” like tips, and, unless firmly stamped out. will become equally obnoxious and in-attackable. You should state firmly and decidedly when engaging a cook that you allow nothing to be sold, and do not pennit anything, however small, to be given away, with- out your expx'ess permission. Servants generally have rather large views as to the use or uselessness of materials, and, knowing no stint, or considering that there is no need for it, they give generously of “that Avhich is left over” to kinsfolk and acquaintance, and even to the beggar at the door. Now, putting aside this vicarious generosity with goods that might be used for your own benefit, promiscuous giving in this fashion very soon develops into distinct dishonesty, whilst the encouragement of beggars at the back door is also an encouragement to the “area sneak.” Teach your ser- vants to refuse utterly this promiscuous giving to unknown objects (such giving, practised, unfortunately, by all classes of womeji, is the direct origin of the painful scones and much cruelty to children, only too often met with in our streete). If your serwant is kindly, and23 SERVANTS—ENGAGEMENT, &c. anxious to relieve want, show her how to utilise scraps not needed for tlie house by making them up into savoui-y soups, puddings, &c., and let her have the plea- sure of dispensing tliis dole herself to persons whose needs are acknowledged ; she has taken the trouble to make tlie things, she therefore deserves the pleasui-e of distributing them, and learns to realise that it is not stinginess, but justifiable caution, which leads her mistress to forbid promiscuous giving. Holidays are another point which often leads to fric- tion between mistress and maid, and is one that should be very definitely settled.at the time of engaging. There is no absolute rule for this, but the general practice is a fortnight’s absence in the year, and an afternoon or evening weekly, besides the outing for religious service on Sunday. This, of course, can be modified, and, in fact, must be, by the requirements of the household, bub in any case, must be settled. Lastly, there is the vexed question of “followers.” Now, this is a point on which housekeepers entertain very dilfereiit views. Some forbid them altogether; others, again, allow female friends, but draw the line rigidly at male followers; whilst the third allow the occasional appearance of well-known and authentic male relations. Prom considerable experience, the best plan seems to me to say decidedly that you only allow any visitors on condition of being told of, and leave asked for, their presence, on the strict understanding that no male relatives are allowed, unless with the knowledge and full consent of the girl’s relations. It is always better to allow these visits openly, as the opinion of their fellow seiwants will go a great way in influencing a girl’s acquaintance. Whereas, if all followers are indis- criminately refused, this is more than likely to lead to deception and disreputable secrecy. With regard to .servants’ duties, these can, as with every other part of household an-angement, only be arrived at by averages, for each household must be in details a law unto itself. The Houselteeper.—This person is responsible for the efficiency of the whole female domestic staff, and per- forms all the duties which would be carried out in a smaller establishment by the mistress herself. She is responsible for the performance of their duties by the cook and her maids, and the housemaids, and tlie Jaimdrymaids, &o. She orders and gives out all theHOUSEHOLD HINTS. 24 store.s, keeps the accounts, engages and dismisses all the under servants, and generally pays the wages. She is responsible in every way for the comfort, behaviour, work, and holiday.s of the servants under her; and sees to the proper care and maintenance of the furniture and appurtenances of the house in every respect, seeing her mistress at stated intervals to show her accounts, and also to report on the condition of the house gener- ally. She has her own sitting-room, in which all her meals, save dinner, are generally served. In large families, where an extensive staff is kept up, and there are many visitors, all the household generally dine in hall, the housekeeper and head manservant, ladies’ maids, visiting valets and maids, &c., retiring to the housekeeper’s room for the second course, the cook and senior footman replacing the housekeeper and butler after the depar- ture of the latter. Remember, the housekeeper’s authority is strictly confined to the interior of the house. She has nothing to do with the cellar, and very often it is a question to be settled whether .she or the butler orders the coals. Cook-Housekeeper.—This is a person, who, besides attending to her own culinar5' duties, is responsible for a great deal of the duties otherwise belongfing to the housekeeper. She keeps the accounts, and, if required, pays them, bringing the receipts to her mistress; orders the stores required in the house, and is responsible for the efficiency of the store room ; she sees to the cleaning of chimneys, windows, and the proper condition of all outside premises, .save those for which the butler or .stablemen are responsible. She presides at, and is responsible for, the proper serving of the servants’ meals; she does herself all the more important parts of the cooking for the dining-room, directing and super- intending the preparation of all the remaining food by her kitchen and scullery maids. Where a cook-house- keeper is kept, the supervision of the housemaids and of the front of the house is either carried out by the mistress herself or by her maid-housekeeper, the latter being responsible for the proper condition of the sitting and bedrooms (save those belonging to the cool^ and her assistants), and the hou.se linen. Of course, the maid- liousekeeper has nothing to do with the butler, the men under him, or his preni’ses. The Cook.—Of these functionaries there is a largo variety of types. For instance, besides the cook-house-SERVANTS—ENGAGEMENT, &c. 25 keeper, there are the “professed cook,” the “cook,” the “plain” oook, and tho “cook-general.” The professed cook requires a staff of kitchen and scullei-y maids, and various privileges, aud is, therefore, only suited to a large establishment. The cook simple usually requires a kitchenmaid, though she may be contented (if better may not be) by the assistance of a “ tweeny ” maid from lunch time onwards. The "plain cook” generally is contented with a charwoman once or twice a week for the heavy cleaning, and looks upon a “tweeny” maid with great satisfaction. She is entirely responsible for tlie keeping in condition of all her kitchen offices, culinary utensils, and basement generally. The cook- (jcncral has no assistant, save on very extreme occasions, and is expected, besides her cooking and the basement, to take the charge of steps, front hall, and the sweeping and gi-ate of dining-room. She also cleans knives and tlie gentlemen’s boots. The Kitchenmaid comes next. She is responsible for all the cooking the professed cook does not undertake. She prepai'es the servants’ meals, also those for the nursery and schoolroom, and assists the cook in every way, being responsible, where there is no scullerymaid, for the cleaning of all the kitchen offices and utensils. I'he Scullerymaid wa.shes and prepares vegetables, washes all kitchen floors, &o., and does all the sci-ubbing, cleaning, and heavy work genei-ally. She usually assi.sts the kitchenmaid in cleaning the range, tins, and utensils generally. It is well here to warn the mistress of a large house that some attention should be paid to the treat- ment meted out to these under servants by their com- panions. for the upper ones are very apt to be extremely inconsiderate, to put it mildly, with regard to the juniors. Where men are not kept, the Farlourmaid is next in importance. To her falls the waiting at table, the charge of the table linen, and the condition of the cushion covers, cloths, ifec., used in the sitting-rooms. She ha.s charge of the plate, the table glass, the china used at breakfast and five o’clock tea. the lamps, and the answering of all bells, save the bedroom ones. She serves and arranges the five o’clock tea, and is re.spon- sible for the bread and butter, and the toast when used, thougli the cook and she often arrange this point to suit their niutual conyenicnce, Tlie parlourmaid valets her3G HOUSEHOLD HINTS. niastor, anti is rosponsiblo for tlic hrusliing of his clotlies and tlio monding of liis linen ; if .single-handed, slio has the charge of tho sitting and smoking rooms, with the dusting and care of tho dining-room, though frequently the gi-ates are done for In'r hy the housemaid, wliom in her turn she assists in the making of the double beds. In large households, where, as is frequently the case nowa- days, menseiwants have been replaced by women, two parlourmaids are kept, the duties being divided pretty much as they would he between butler and footman. In smaller houses very often, besides the housemaid, a second one is kept, who is called a house-parlourmaid— that is, she does housework in the morning, belonging to the parlourmaid from lunch-time onwards; of course, she must be dressed for lunch. By the way. when a second paidourmaid or this under parlourmaid is kept, the latter answere and opens tho front door, the parlour- maid proper acting as butler, and ushering in and announcing visitors into the drawing-room. The Housemaid.—Of this class of servant in a large household there are generally two to four, “the first” housemaid being in authority and responsible for tho others; she dora all the lighter dusting and arrange- ment of the various rooms, the under maids doing all the heavy and dirty parts. Where there are more than two housemaids, the .iunior one does not come into the front part of the house at all, her work being confined to the housewoi’k of the nurseries, servants’ room, back stair- case, &c. Where there is no housekeeper the head housemaid is responsible for the condition and comfort of the bedrooms, sitting-rooms, &c., and has entire charge of the bed linen, curtains, chintzes, &c., doing all the mending required with her assistants. Where only one housemaid is kept she is. roughly speaking, responsible for all bedrooms, stairs, &c., and has charge of the bed linen. The “Tweeny” Maid, sometimes also known as the “up and down girl,” is a young girl, who divides her time between the cook and the housemaid, working with the housemaid all the morning, and belonging to the cook from lunch time onwards. She does all the stray ,iobs for which no definite person can be found, and also waits on the schoolroom and the governes.s, if there is no nurseiymaid kept. She would do doorsteps, brasses, boots, find kitchen knives, and very probably will haveSERVANTS—ENGAGEMENT, &c. 27 to cjirry all tho coals. This maid is ono who requires particular attention, as slio is very apt to be overworked in every dii'ection. The Nurse—Of tliis servant there are almost as many kinds as there are cooks, and it is as well when engaging one to find out what her views with regard to assistance may be. The superior upper nurse, even if she have only one infant in arms, requires a nurserymaid to fetch and carry for her, light fires, and wait upon her generally. If this functionary is not available, granting that she condescends to come, she will require almost the entire time of the housemaid, and for this reason, far more than the wages she asks, she is unpopular in the ordinary household where three to four servants are kept. As a general rule, however, a good nurse will do her own bedmaking, dusting, and general charge of the nurseries, the grates and heavy cleaning being done, and the coals and meals carried up for her. She would do some washing for the baby, and, of course, the necessary needlework; how much of this latter she would be able to do would naturally depend a good deal on how she brings up the baby, some nurses having an evil habit of perpetually nursing the child, which gets it into bad ways, and utterly prevents the nurse doing anything else. Now, this is not the least necessai-y for the infant’s comfort, and a child allowed to amuse itself on a soft rug on the floor is qnite as happy and healthy, if not more so, than the much-coddled babj'. Where there is only one baby, and that past its toeth-cutting and two or three years old, the nurse vei-y often does light jobs for her mistress, acting to some degree as her maid. One point deserves attention with regard to nurses; the mistress should always .so arrange it that the single- handed nurse should have her dinner downstairs with the other servants (unless the children are old enough for a regular nursery dinner), as tin’s freshens her np, and gives her a much-needed rest. This, of course, is independent of taking the child for an hour or so in the morning to allow the nurse to get through her house- work. It is well when engaging your nurse and your housemaid to make arrangements to tliis effect. The Nurserymaid waits upon the nurse, fetching and carrying for her, lighting fires, doing out nurseries, cleaning perambulator, children’s boots and shoes, carry- ing coals, meals, &c., and helping in every way with the elder children, for where there is quite a youpg baby,28 HOUSEHOLD HINTS. especially if the latter be delicate, the nurse’s time will have te be censiderahly devoted to the infant. Occa- sionally in small establishments the nurserymaid is com- bined with the housemaid, and consequently does more housework and less nursery work, whilst the nurse- housemaid is a housemaid who acts as nurserymaid to the mistress, the latter undertaking personally the duties of a head nurse. The Lady’s Maid is entirely devoted to her mistress’s .service, and has entire charge of her wardrobe, .iewellery, &c. She does her mistress’s errand.? if required, packs and unpacks for her, and waits on her in every way if unwell. In largo households she does absolutely no housework of any kind, though in smaller ones she will dust and keep tidy her own and her mistress’s room; sho expects a bedroom and work-room, or a combination of the two, ranks amongst the upper servants, and wears neither a print dress nor a cap. Young Ladies’ Maids differ only in degree from the lady’s maid proper, under- taking to help the housemaid in the bedmaking and the dusting, and keeping their own rooms clean and tidy, but doing no grates or heavy work. The Zhseful Maid is usually a confidential servant, who very often combines with waiting on her mistress some, at least, of the duties of a housekeeper. Her work differs in almost every house, consequently what is required of her should be explained very clearly at the time of engagement. First-class hair dressing and dre.ss- making is not usually demanded of her. though she would make or mend simple things. Amongst the duties carried out by this class of servant are the charge of the house linen, the arrangement of the flowers in the house, the dusting and bedmaking of her mistress’s and the young lady’s room, and the dusting of the drawing-room; she also occasionally answers the door or brings in tea during the parlourmaid’s absence, .and sometimes helps to wait at table. Of course, all these duties are not expected from one and the same maid. The Schoolroom Maid is a combination of housemaid and young lady’s maid ; in fact, she is usually in training for the latter position. She does out the schoolroom, waits on the schoolroom party, carries up such meals as are taken in the schoolroom, and washes up the tea and breakfast things belonging to it. She waits on the governess, helps in doing out the children’s and gover- ness’s rooms, mends and looks after the children’s things,SERVANTS—ENGAGEMENT, &c. 29 helps the ohildreii with their toilet, iuid goes out with tliem when necessai-y. The Sutler.—To this functiouary belongs the care ot the wine and the plate. He is responsible for the work, behaviour, and appearance of the men tmder him; he carves, superintends the waiting at table, and is respon- sible for the condition of the billiard, dining, and smoking rooins, and their addenda, also the condition of the carriage rugs, lamps, brasses, &c., and, where no valet is kept, lie usually waits on his master. Where only one footman is kept the butler is also expected to help in the plate cleaning, to answer the door, and to attend to the sitting-room fires when the footman is out. The butler generally expects to go out every day, either in the morning before lunch, or before dinner in the afternoon, as may be most convenient to his employers. He also ai'ranges the going out of the footmen. The butler, even when he does not arrange the flowers, is responsible for the condition of the flower vases, and other table decorations; and in the country is respon- sible for everything connected with the shooting lunches, flasks, &c. The Footmen simply do the work under the super- vision of the butler. They attend to the plate cleaning, the lamps, the dining-room table knives, the glass, and panti-y work generally; wait, answer the door, attend to the sitting-room fires, answer the bells, valet the young gentlemen and the masculine visitors, carry up luggage, call cabs, &c. Of course, where there are two, the upper footman takes the responsibility, the under one doing all the drudgery. In some houses the polish- ing of the dining-room and smoking-room furniture and floors form part of the footmen’s work; whilst, if no odd man is kept, the under footman should clean the windows, boots, and knives, and fill the coal scuttles. But these points should be made vei'y clear indeed at the time of engagement, or they will certaiaily lead to ructions later on. Where two or more footmen are kept, if one is required to go out with the carriage, either one is kept for this service, or it is taken by each alternately. N.B.—Where menserv^ants are kept, no women servants should ever be seen in the front of the house after breakfast time; before and during which the housemaids are, of course, responsible for the cleaning of the rooms. A Single-Handed Manservant is a combination of30 HOUSEHOLD HINTS. butlor ami footman, and usually does a good deal more than these two comhined, as, in addition to the plate, glass, and pantry-work, and lamps, tlio waiting at table, opening doors, attending to sitting-room fires, and valeting his master, he very often cleans the knives, boots, and (with the assistance of the housemaid) the windows, the dusting and polishing of the dining-room and smoking-room furniture also often falling to his share. His outing.s, which should bo daily, must be arranged tO' suit the ways of the household, the house- maid undertaking his duties in his ab.sonce. The Valet is simply a masculine lady’s maid, though he often acts as loader for his master when out shooting, and helps wait at table at dinner, when he wears evening clothes like the butler. The Hall Boy is practically a male “tweeny” maid, who intends to develop into a footman, and probably a butler. He waits at the sei'vants’ hall meals, helps in and scrubs out the pantry, cleans and trims the lamps for the kitchen and other back premises, cleans boots and knives, fills coal scuttles, and very often has to carry them to their proper place. Like the “tweeny” maid, he requires attention, for, being only half-grown, the work may easily be unduly severe, and a great deal be put on his shoulders, that should be done by other people. Mistresses should always see for themselves what each servant has to do, and should be careful to have the work fairly distributed. Another point, which helps greatly towards the peace and comfort of everyone, is attention to the servants’ quarters. Of course, where possible each servant should have a separate room; failing this, see that each has a separate bed, washstand, chest of drawers, looking glass, and chair. These items are very inexpensive nowadays, and well repay their original cost anyway. Servants’ rooms should be inspected at stated intervals, exactly like any of the other bedrooms, and any deficiencies should be noted and made good, and any negligence in their upkeep should be at once and shai-ply censured. Comfortable beds and plenty of air should be sine qua nons. 'The following is a list of the average wages of the present day: Housekeeper, £45-£60 and upwards; cook- housekeeper, £35-£76; professed cook, £30-£60; good plain cook, £25-£35; cook-general, £18-£30; parlour- maid (head), £30-£35; thorough good parlourmaid31 SERVANTS—ENGAGEMENT, &c. (siiigle-lmncled), £20-£30 ; house parlourmaid, £lG-£25 ; housemaid (thorough first), £25-£35; housemaid (under), £15-£20; “tweeny” maid, £12-£18; schoolroom maid, £1-J;-£18; kitchonmaid, £14-£30; scullerymaid, £10-£16; nurse (superior), £25-£50 ; nurse, £20-£30 ; nurserymaid, £14-£20; lady’s maid, £25-£60; useful maid, £20-£30; young lady’s maid, £18-£25 ; butler, £50-£10C); footman (upper), £30-£50; footman (under), £20-£30 ; man out of livery, £35-£60; valet, £35-£60; page or hall boy, £8- £10. For temporary servants the following is the general rule: Cooks, 12s. 6d. to £1. 10s. weekly; parlour- maids, 10s. to £1 weekly; housemaids, 10s. to 15s. weekly (in all three cases with beer, food, and washing extra). Char and work women, from 2s. 6d. to 3s. 6d. a day (with food, beer, and, in most cases, travelling expenses extra). Boy for cleaning boots in the morning before school, 2s. 6d. to 5s. weekly, with breakfast; waitei's, 7s. 6d. to 10s. 6cl., and waitress, 5s. 6d. to 7s. 6d. each time ; caretaliers, 10s. to 15s. 6cl. weekly, with coals and light. Board wages, from 8s. to 14s. weekly for women; from 12s. to 16s. weekly for men, besides fire and light. It is impossible to give moi-e than an approximate idea of board wages, as these differ in different parts of the country. With regard to dress, there are certain points to be considered. Lady’s maids wear neither caps nor print dresses; whilst aprons are a matter for their own per- sonal decision. When in attendance on their mistress a black or dark skirt and blouse, and quiet-looking head- gear and cloak or jacket are indispensable; but it must be remembered that in large country houses senmnts dress for dinner, just as their masters and mistresses do, slipping on a blouse or overall when attending on their mistresses. House and parlourmaids usually wear tidy print dresses, aprons, and caps in the morning; in the after- noon plain black dresses, with muslin aprons and caps, turned-down linen collars and cuffs. These they are supposed to provide for themselves. Where, however, mistresses insist on a uniform being worn in the after- noon, this must be provided, remaining the mistress’s property on the seiwant’s departure, as a man’s livery does. .4 professed or superior cook weai's a cap or not, as she pleases, but always a print dress and long sleeves.32 HOUSEHOLD HINTS. Of course, in a small house, wliere the cook takes the parlourmaid’s work when the latter is out, she must dress in tlie same style as the latter. Scullery and kitchenmaids wear print dresses, caps, and aprons. Upper nurses seldom wear caps, but under nurses should do so. In summer nurses, as a rule, wear white or grey print dr^es; and in winter, and for outdoor wear with the children, plain grey dresses, jackets, and bonnets. This, however, should be definitely settled on engagement. A butler or single-handed manservant wears a tail coat and dark ti’ousers, with white shirt and collar and black bow tie, all day till the evening. For dinner, the regulation black dress suit and white tie. Footmen wear livery in the daytime, and usually in the evening also. This consists of a livery coat and waistcoat, and dark cloth trousers to match. Whilst in the morning, for plate cleaning, &c., a drill or linen coat is generally provided. Livery is always provided, but the butler, or out-of-livery servant, provides his own clothes. The page or hall boy (when the latter wears livery) should wear clothes the colour of the family livery— trousers, and short Eton coat fastened down the front with small, thickly-set buttons. Like the footman, he wears a striped linen jacket and waistcoat in the morn- ing whilst plate cleaning, &c. It should be added that the wages given above are calculated on the English and London scale, but they vary according to locality, being lower in Ireland and Scotland, and also in small provincial towns; but it is difficult to give any precise average for wages, as these vary both according to time and season. A point that must be remembered by the mistress of a large house is that the scale of servants’ precedence is as sharplj"^ defined (if not more so) as is that in the dining- room ; and servants are even more tenacious on this point than their masters and mistresses; many a good and valuable ser\mnt has been lost to a household by inattention to this point.CHAPTER III. THE STORE ROOM, LARDER, &c. The store room occupies a very important position, in country houses especially: it should be cool, airy, and, above all, dry. Where the space can be spared, it is best to use a fairly large room for this purpose^ and have it fitted up specially. The first thing should be to look the room well over, and have all the cracks and crannies well stopped with plaster of Paris to check the entrance of mice and other pests; then have it generously fitted up with shelves all round. These are best graduated, the larger and lower ones for the heavier and bulkier articles, the narrower and lighter ones on top. Besides this, there should be a strong, finn table, if possible with one or more drawers of generous size, and in one corner, if it can be managed, there should be a small lock-up cupboard for medical comforts, and also for bleaching liquids, and such household requisites as may not be li^tly trusted in servants’ hands. In one of the drawers of the table should be kept a supply of brown and white paper, string, tape, and some adhesive labels; in the other two or three spoons of various sorts and sizes, a sharp knife, a strong pair of scissors, a corkscre\w a ball of string, a cheese-cutter, and a soap- cutter. These last are practically the same as far as make goes, but should, naturally, be kept very strictly for their separate uses. To make these, take two pieces of wood (strong firewood will do), point these at both ends, scraping and sand-papering the wood to get it perfectly smooth (these sticks should be of the same size and shape as “tipcats”), attach a length of wire to each, either through a hole in the centre, made with a red-hot skewer, or by fastening the wire securely D;h HOUSEHOLD HINTS. round the middle of each stick. To use this instrument, slip the wire round tho stuff to be cut. and, holding both handles in one hand, draw it steadily through tho material till the latter is divided. Thc.se may be seen in operation any day in a cheesemonger’s, and are in- finitely better for cutting cheese or soap than a knife. A good set of scales should also form part of the store room outfit, together with a slate, with pencil attached, and a book slung to the same hook, in which should be inscribed the dates of purchase and giving out of the various stores. If possible, it is weU to keep in tho store room a small tool chest, as there are many littlo things about a house which a handy woman can repair (and thus save the expense of a workman) if she has the necessary tools at hand. Please, however, see that the tools are strictly returned to the storeroom when done with, as nothing is, apparently, easier to mislay than a hammer, a screwclriver, or a pair of pliers. In the emergency or medical cupboard it is well to keep a few remedies for instant application; amongst these I should mention a Ub. tin of Coleman’s mustard, a tin of mustard leaves, a box of old linen and cotton rags, a length of new flannel, a roll of bandage, a paper or box of safety pins of different sizes, a packet of court-plaister. a roll of diaculum plaister, some gutta percha tissue or oiled silk, Avadding, a tin of lin- seed meal (see this is kept airtight), a bottle each of sal volatile, castor oil, essence of ginger and of hazerme. a good bottle of carron oil (equal parts lime Avater and linseed oil, Avell shaken together, and applied Avith an old rag. and changed occasionally, for burns), lime Avater (un.slaked lime steeped in Avater, a piece of unslaked lime the size of a large Avalnut being ir.fused in a Avine bottle of cold Avater) for bilious sickness, a bath thermo- meter if possible, a large bottle of Calvert’s carbolic, ditto of Condy’s fluid, 3oz. or 4oz. of permanganate of potash (Avith any other disinfectant you please), a large bottle of embrocation (ElHman’s or otherAvise), a bottle of liquorice powder, a bottle of best brandy (to be kept strictly for medical use), a bottle of chlorodyne, a small bottle of ipecacuanha Avine. and any other medicines and medical comforts you may find suitable for family use, together with a medicine measuring-glass and a feeding-cup. By the Avay, it is a good plan, Avhen winter is over, to empty the india- rubber hot-Avater bottles thoroughly, then-fill them withTHE STORE ROOM, LARDER, &c. 35 air by means of a bellows or a bicycle pump, and store them in the storeroom ; this will be found tO' prolong the lives of these useful articles. As said above, a generous allowance of shelves should be provided, each shelf being kept for its separate and special use, so that in a little time you may be able to tell blindfold in which direction to go for any stores required. Hooks should also bo affixed to the ceiling or beams for the string bags, or rather, miniature ham- mocks. used for storing lemons, smoked hams, tongues, sides of bacon, herbs, &c., in their brown paper bags (carefully pricked all over with a fine needle to let in the air without admitting the dust), &c. All stores should be kept in their own special receptacles, each being carefully labelled to show their contents. This is especially needed where things requiring air-tight re- tainers are used, as it obviates the necessity of opening the tin to discover the contents. Formerly, old- fashioned housewives used always to mark or label their .jams, pickles, Ac., on the bladder or paper covering the top, stacking each kind in a separate corner, and trusting to their memories to localise the various stores. But. with all submission to these worthy ladies, it is far more practical to affix labels with the names, dates, and other facts desired, at the side of the jar, where it can be seen at once, even when stacked. Adhesive labels will answer for this in many cases, but as all glues will not fix paper on tin, it may be added tliat a aluc for tins made with loz. powdered alum dissolved in one pint of boiling water, and then boiled with 2oz. of gum shellac till the latter is dissolved, will clear away this difficulty. Tliis glue must be kept tightly corked. Either tightly-closing tins or large earthenware crocks should be used for cereals, currants, raisins, &c., but see that the lids really do fit, and be careful they are kept tightly closed, as insects are very destructive, to cereals especially. Shallots, garlic, and such like strongly-smelling articles should be kept in tight-fitting tins, and as far away as possible from anything likel.y to be affected by the odour. Soap, for the same reason, should be kept at a respectful distance from provisions. All things in common use, such as tea, sugar, Ac., should be bought in bulk.. Coffee is not much good if long roasted, or not freshly ground, so if it is to bo bought in bulk, buy the unroasted berries and roast and grind them yourself. You will be more than repaid D 2rtj HOUSEHOLD HINTS. hy tlie iiicl'cased aroma and flavour thus obtained. Have a shelf for sauces, calourings, essences, and such like, and always keep a spare packet of best leaf gela- tine, a bag or two of freezing salt, two or three bottles of liqueur syrups for flavouring. &c., wherewith to re- plenish cook’s store cupboard, for allowing that lady the run of the store room, however trustworthy she may be, does not (emphatically) make for economy. A spare supply of leathers, Selvyts. rubbers, brushes, <fec., should also be kept in store. Keep your record of stores sharply, always putting the date when each kind was got in (this enables you to keep a check on their use), and, above all. be very particular to have stores renewed before they really give out. For instance, do not send for fresh supplies directly you give out the last speci- men to cook for her cupboard, but send the order directly your private store runs low. Cook should re- ceive a definite supply of groceries, &c., on a fixed day at a fixed time weekly; you should have a fixed time, say, monthly or quarterly, for looking through your store room and seeing what is required, and send your li.st of necessaries to the tradesman you employ sufficiently early to allow of the fresh stores arriving before the last supply is entirely exhausted. Whether you get your goods from a local tradesman or from some quasi-whole- sale firm is a matter for your own judgment. Very often in fairly large county towns tradesmen are glad to supply groceries, &c., in bulk at so little over store prices (^ter adding in the carriage, package, &c.) as to make it worth while to employ them, and. personally, where it can be done without upsetting one’s domestic budget, it always seems to me only fair to spend one’s money in one’s own country and among Avhat (by a stretch) may be called one’s own people. But remember, to ensure success in this matter, you must treat the local man as you would .your stores, i.e., give clearly made-out lists, and send payment with, or on the fulfilment of, the order. It is fairly easy to reckon up what groceries. &c.. will be needed. Of tea. coffee, or cocoa, the weekly allow- ance a head is usually 4oz. (the coffee, however, can hardly be gauged accurately, as tastes differ so as to its strength; still, the above is the ordinary housewife’s average); sugar varies from ^Ib. to 11b. a head weekly; the latter average should cover all purposes comfortabb' in a fairly large family. In a family of nine or ten, 81b. of sugar of all kinds, loaf, caster, and Demerara, willTHE STORE ROOM, LARDER, &c. 37 cov'er everytliiug as a rule, though if five o’clock teas are rife an extra pound of loaf sugar may be needed now and again. But (and this is a sine qua non) this (juantity implies cane, not foreign, beet-made stuff. Where preserves are to he made it is well to reckon from 12oz. to 16oz. of sugar to evei'y 11b. of fruit. Cane preserving sugar should certainly be bought in bulk. For milk puddings for the nursery, such as rice, barley, *fec., you reckon loz. of cereal for each pint of milk used, though if liked a little stiffer, IJ oz. to 2oz. may be used to the pint, but this average should never be overstepped, and in any case the pudding must be cooked very slowly. Three hours is none too much to give a pudding made with 3oz. to 4oz. of rice, tapioca, barley. »fcc., and three pints of milk. Remember, this plan of slow cooking is an economy, as it obviates the use of eggs, which in this case are not needed. Ground or powdered cereals require a trifle more milk and less time; it may also be observed that most patent cereal foods are improved by somewhat longer cooking than is given in the accompanying directions. Having settled your own store cupboard, do not forget your cook’s, which should be replenished weekly or monthly, as you prefer (the shorter time is usually the best), making her understand that you hold her respon- sible for the stores given out, and that you expect them to last, under ordinary circumstances, for the time speci- fied. For a family of ten to twelve people, living in the usual style with late dinners, savouries, dainty cookery, &c., a bottle each of Lazenby’s Harvey, and Lea and Perrin’s Worcester sauce (the large size) will last about a fortnight (possibly rather more), a large bottle of Burgess’s essence of anchovies will probably last a week or ten days longer, an average tin of Edmund’s Empress curry powder will last about a month, on the basis of two dishes of curry a week. These figures are naturally only approximate, but they are taken from the actual consumption of a family of four to five in the kitchen, and six or seven in the dining-room, the servants being all women. So this may give a certain basis to go on. In towns where space is restricted, it is seldom possible to give up a room for store purposes, so it is best to make an arrange- ment with some firm to have “a standing orderj” as it is called, for so much grocery, Ac., to be sent in once a week, as this, to a certain extent, allowances theHOUSEHOLD HINTS. 38 servants, and keeps more check on expense than can be maintained if daily orders of a small amount are per- mitted. Some mistresses actually allowance their ser- vants, but this I have seldom found successful, and know from experience that if, after telling the cook plainly what you consider sufficient, this quantity is to any noticeable degree overstepped, an explanation quietly but firmly demanded has seldom to be repeated; only take trouble to see that your supplies are ample in the first place. Lastly, to ensure comfort, a corner of the store room should be devoted to household stores of various kinds, such as writing, blotting, packing, brown, and other kinds of paper, spare ink; a ball each of fine and coarse string; a glue pot and a bottle of either Diamond cement or Lepage’s invaluable fish glue; and last, but by no means least, a small medicine chest, for, where there are children especially, one never knows when a ques- tion of minutes may not make the difference between life and death. The items given above are naturally only approxi- mate, and must vary in every household, but they may serve as some sort of guide. A properly stocked and managed store room, whatever its size, is always a great addition to one’s comfort, and in these days of pre- served foods, of all sorts and kinds, enables one to bear with equanimity, even if not with actual enjoyment, the incursion of unforeseen guests, or the domestic mis- haps and times of stress that come to all households, however well managed. A few more hints may help in the preservation of stores. For instance, store jams, pickles, chutnees, <$;c., on the lower shelves, for hot air ascends, so the higher shelves will be found to promote fermentation. Flour may, if the store room be a dry one, be bought in large quantities, but see the container is airtight, as flour absorbs damp very readily, and then becomes musty. If the floor of the store room is stone, stand the flour bin on a wooden box, or wooden rests, to keep it off the floor. All cereals and grains should be stored in tightly- covered earthenware jars, duly labelled, but do not buy very large quantities, as they are liable to suffer from insects. Split peas, the piselli verdi (or dried green Italian peas so useful for purees, sou^s, &c.); haricot and flageolet beans; lentils, both Egyptian (orangeTHE STORE ROOM, LARDER, Ac. 39 coloured, and popular abroad as “lentilles a la reine”) and German (a brownish green and not so delicate as the Egyptian), and such like should not be bought in bulk, as they are apt to suffer from weevil. Almonds, spice of all kinds, starch, socla^ coffee, and tea should be kept in tightly-closed and airtight tins. Sitgar is best kept in closely-covered earthenware jars, and too large a supply should not be bought, as it also is apt to suffer from insects. Candles, like soap, should be bought in large quan- tities, as they need hardening before use. When white wax candles become discoloured they may be improved by wiping them with a cloth dipped in spirits of wine. Honey, which, to avoid adulteration, should be bought in the comb, may be stored for months in an earthen- ware jar, covered with a clean cloth under the tightly- fitting lid to ensure the perfect exclusion of air. Dried fruits should be bought in large quantities only in the beginning of winter, when the new fruits come in; say the end of October or beginning of November. Figs, dried, should never be bought till after the first frosts, pour caxise! Lastly, always remember when buying canned goods of any kinds to examine them closely, rejecting all whose tins are in the least damaged, no matter to how small an extent, and always buy them at a sufficiently large shop to ensure the freshness of the stock, and the responsibility of the tradesman. Be sure to have the store room aired at regular in- tervals, and insist on the most rigid cleanliness, dry- ness, and tidiness. Untidiness, moisture, and the dropping about of stores are all direct encouragements to insect pests of all kinds. The store room is dis- tinctly the mistress’s province, and it is well, therefore, if possible, to keep a corner where you can store the spare supplies of household linen, spare glass, &c., for if more than is actually required for the needs (on a liberal scale) of the house is given out, it is wonderful how things disappear and get broken! and it is rather annoying to have some friends coming to dinner and to be told suddenly that. “We shall want some more tumblers, ma’am!” or “If you please, ma’am, we have only enough sherry glasses for yourselves! ” When you know for a fact that at the last count over of the pantry stores there was a full set of everything for twelve, and your daily number is never over" six I ButHOUSEHOLD HINTS. 4U Buck accidents will occur, so give out what is wanted and store the rest for emergencies. After all, the pantry is very likely small, and in a confined space acci- dents will happen. Another part of the hou.se, though perhaps, more strictly speaking, belonging to the kitchen, is the larder. But, after all, this is the cook’s store room, so it may be included m this chapter. If anyway pos- sible, the larder should have a northerly aspect, to ensure coolness, and must be dry, light, well ventilated, and scrupulously clean. The ceiling and walls (if not tiled) should be well limewashed at least once a year. The shelves should, if possible, be of slate; failing this, tViey must be well scrubbed weekly, choosing a dry day for the purpose. The windows, if not of perforated zinc gauze (w’hich is best) should be opened constantly, a sheet of fine muslin being stretched taut, across the window, to keep out flies, &c. If possible, the door should also have the upper panels of the perforated zinc, to ensure a draught. The hooks for hanging meat, &c.. should be arranged on the ceiling in the fine of this draught. If possible, the floor should be of stone, but in any case there must be a slab of slate for the fish, and one for the milk, which must be kept well away from anything likely to taint it. In the country, of course, the butter, ■cieam. and milk would be kept in the dairy. All this will sound a counsel of the veriest perfection to the luckless town housewife, whose larder is probably a dark cupboard, agreeably disposed between the main drain and the dustnole ; still, careful cleanliness and attention will do a good deal with even this unpromising hole. It is possible in most houses to find a passage leading from the kitchen to the area and the back premises, which can be utilised. For this affix hooks in the ceiling for meat, game, &c., and insert wire gauze in the upper panels of the doors at ends, and you will be astonished to find what a satisfactory deputy-laider this makes. Only, when you have to contrive in this way to remedy a small larder, be generous in the supply of wire fly- covers, cane and muslin cages (procurable for a few pence at the’nearest ironmonger) for the joints; hooks, single and double; and last, but not least, a large quantity of larder crockery. Meat, when it comes off the table, should be at once shifted on to a clean “larder” plate or dish, and put away in the larder, but never allow the dinner service to be used for this purpose, for this41 THE STORE ROOM, LARDER, &c. is a fruitful cause of accidents. Where a dainty cuisine is expected, economy is impossible if the most is not made of the materials at hand, and the tiniest scraps of fish, meat, vegetable, or sauce can be worked up by a skilful cook, on condition that they are neaHy stored. The shelves should be wiped down daily with a dOjinp cloth to remove all dust, &c., and thoroughly scrubbed or washed down once a week with either carbolic s^p or a solution of carbolic. Choose a dry day for this work, and lift out everything from the larder before beginning to scrub. If possiole, always keep butt^, cream, milk, and eggs away from other food, and be extremely careful to place the dairy produce in a clean, untainted place, as nothing catches germs, &c., so quickly as milk in any shape. . Having given these directions, it may be convenient here to add a few words concerning measures and measurements. Measure of Capacity. 1 Minim 1 Drop 1 Dracbra 1 Teaspoonful 2 Drachms ... 1 Dessertspoonful 4 Drachms ... 1 Tablespoonful (iO Minims 1 Drachm 8 Drachms ... 1 Ounce 20 Ounces 1 Pint 4 Gills 1 Pint 2 Pints 1 Quart 2 Quarts 1 Pottle 4 Quarts 1 Gallon 2 Gallons 1 Peck 4 Pecks 1 Bushel 2 Bushels 1 Strike 3 Bushels 1 Sack 4 Bushels 1 Coomb 8 Bushels 1 Quarter 12 Sacks 1 Chaldron 5 Quarters ... 1 Wey or Load 10 Quarters ... 1 Last. half a pint is often called a In the north of England gill, and the true gill a “noggin. Avoirdupois Weight. 16 Drams 16 Ounces 14 Pounds 28 Pounds 112 Pounds 20 Hundredweights 1 Ounce 1 Pound 1 Stone 1 Quarter 1 Hundredweight 1 Ton Troy Weight. 4 Grains 1 Carat 24 Grains 1 Pennyweight 20 Pennyweights.. 1 Ounce 12 Ounces 1 Pound Apothecaries Weight. 20 Grains 1 Scruple 3 .Scruples 1 Drachm 8 Drachms 1 Ounce 12 Ounces 1 Pound42 HOUSEHOLD HINTS. LiquiH Imperial Measure. 4 Gills 2 Pints 4 Quarts 0 Gallons 18 Gallons 30 Gallons 64 Gallons 72 Gallons 108 Gallons (2 Hogshijads; 216 Gallons (2 Butts) 1 Gallon of wine i Cask Octave 1 Hogshead of Beer 1 Hogshead of Brandy ... 1 Hogshead of Wine 1 Hogshead of Bum 1 Hogsl ead of Sugar 1 Pint 1 Quart 1 Galion 1 Firkin 1 Kilderkin 1 B irrel or “Tierce” 1 Hogshead 1 Puncheon 1 Butt 1 Tun 0 “ reputed ” Quart Bottles Abouc. 13 Dozen "reputed” Quart Bottles About Dozen “reputed" Quart Bottles 64 Gallons 60 Gallons 43-46 Gallons 46-.60 Gallons 13-16 Hundredweights It is best on all occasions to weigh (and weigh accu- rately) the ingredients used for any recipe, for though an experienced chef or cook may he able almost by instinct to measure correctly by rule of thumb, the average cook, whether amateur or professional, most certainly is not, and failure, or, at best, uncertainty, is the inevitable result. So a pair of scales and a graduated liquid mea.sure should be found in every kitchen. However, failing these, there are fairly accu- rate makeshift weights, much used by cooks, to the con- fusion of their employers, who are ignoi'ant of the proper equivalents. Here is a pretty accurate list of these substitutes: One drop equals 1 minim. Thirty drops equal one saltspoonful or i a drachm. Sixty drops equal one teaspoonful or 1 drachm. Two teaspoonfuls equal one dessertspoonful. Two dessertspoonfuls equal one tablespoonful. or loz. dry and ioz. liquid measure. . Two tablespoonfuls equal one gravy spoonful or one fluid ounce. Four tablespoonfuls equal one port glass or half a gill. Eight tablespooiifiils equal one gill, two port or three sherry glasses, or a “ quartern,” or one teacupful. Two gills or two teacupfuls equal half a pint, or a breakfastcupful, or a tumbler. . « ■. Half a pint equals two breakfast cups or twenty fluid ounces. Twenty fluid ounces equal one fluid pound, and correspond to tne 16oz. avoirdupois pound. These measures, it rnust be remembered, are for water, wiue, vinegar, fruit juice, and such like; syrups, oil,THE STORE ROOM, LARDER, &c. -13 and cream weigh a trifle more, and spirits a trifle less tlian water. It is well, if possible, to correct these makeshift measures by comparing them with recognised standard weights and measures. For instance, a gradu- ated minim glass will help you accurately to the small measures up to the gill. Again, it must be borne in mind that measures of capacity naturally differ according to the density of the article weighed. Judgment must, therefore, be used in such matters, but the following will give some idea of the variation: breakfastcupful of breadcrumbs, well pressed down, equals about 4oz. .'V breakfastcupful of butter, lard, or dripping, pressed down or melted, equals 7oz. A breakfastcupful of currants or sultanas, beaped, equals 6oz. A breakfastcupful of flour, arrowroot, cornflour, &c., level, equals 4oz. -V breakfastcupful of flour, arrowroot, cornflour, &c., heaped, equals 6oz. .V breakfastcupful of raisins, stoned and pressed down, equals 8oz. A breakfastcupful of rice, beaped. equals 7oz. breakfastcupful of sago, semolina, tapioca, &c., heaped, equals 4oz. A breakfastcupful of suet, finely minced and heaped, equals 4oz. A breakfastcupful of sugar, caster or moist, heaped, equals 8oz. A handful of flour is about 3oz. to 4oz. Cayenne pepper, a “ pinch ” of, equals a quarter to half a salt- spoonful. I’cpper, a “dash” of. equals a quarter of a saltspoon. N'utmeg, a " grate” of. equals a bare quarter of a saltspoon. It is well to remember, when measuring by spoonfuls and cupfuls, that there is a considerable difference be- tween a “level” or a “heaping” spoonful; the latter contains almost as much above as it does in the bowl of the spoon. To ensure a level spoonful, fill the spoon, then, with the back of a clean knife, sweep off its contents, whatever they are, level with the edges of the spoon. To obtain a level half-spoonful, after this pro- cess. slip the knife through the centre of the spoon lengthwise, removing all the ingredients on one side; if you divide the remainder crosswise, you obtain the quarter-.spoonful. The following will give .some general averages for ordi- nary kitehen ingredients: AppUf average five or six io the pound; 161b. make a peck. Ventif. broad, go 91b. to the peck. Kidney beans go lOib. to the peck.u HOUSEHOLD HINTS. 7i«««r iho size of a nut,” Joz.; “the size of a walnut.” loz.; the siz.e ol an ckk,” 2oz. 561b. of butter go to a firkin: 2241b. or four firkins, go to a barrel of butter. 6arrot« old, three or tour to the pound; new, fifteen or twenty to the pdund. coaZo, half a sack, or 1121b., equals Icwt.; one sack equals 2cwt.; ten sacks equal 1 ton. Coke, one sack equals lour bushels; twelve sacks equal a chaldron. k-m. eight large, ten small, in the shell, equal lib.; twenty-five yolks or twenty whites equal 11b. (whites weigh more than the yolks, and, also, there is more white in an egg than yolk). Always weigh eggs when the weight is mentioned in the recipe. Fish, a box of. equals 901b. Fish is always weighed uncleansed, hence the difference in weight when it reaches the kitchvn. Hour, 3Jlb. equal one quartern, and makes a quartern, or 41b. loaf ; 7tb. equal one gallon; 141h. equal a stone or peck; Mlb.. or four pecks equal a bushel; 1961b. makes a barrel; and 2801b., or five bushels, equal a sack. Gooseberries go 161b. to the peck. flay, old, 561b. to the truss; thirty-six trusses go to the load. In new hay 601b. go to the truss, and thirty-six trusses to the load. Meat, 8lb. to the stone (the legal stone is 141b.). Onions, six to eight to the pound; 161b. to the peck. Fens, green, 81b. go to the peck. Plums and other stone fruits go 181b. to the peck. Potatoes, four to six go to the pound, if old; 201b. go to the peck; 561b. to the bushel: 1681b. or three bushels, go to the sack. Raisins, 561b. make a box; 1121b. or two boxes, one barrel. Sieve.—This measure, much used for fruits and nuts, varies locally. Strictly speaking, it should mean fourteen dry quarts. Straw, 361b. eqiiaJs one truss, thirty-six trusses one load. Wine.—This is sold in “reputed” pints and quarts, the latter being somewhere between one and a half and one and three- quarter pints, tout brandy must always contain twenty-six fluid ounces to the quart bottle. In working by foreign recipes some diflSculty is often experienced in reducing foreign weights and measures to our ordinary .standard, so the following list, which will be found fairly (or, at least, workably) correct, may be useful; 1 Millilitre 16i Drops or Minims, or J Teaspoonful 1 Centilitre 2 Drachms 49 Minims, or a Dessertspoonful 1 Decilitre 3 Ounces, 4 Drachms 10 Minims, or a good Wineglassful 1 Litre 13 Pints 4i Litres 1 English Gallon 9 Litres 1 Peck 36 Litres 1 Bushel 1 Decalitre 10 Litres, or 2i Gallons 1 Hectolitre 100 Litres, or 22 English Gallons, or 23 Bushels 1 Decigramme 1-lOth Gramme, roughly speaking IJ Grains 1 Gramme 15J Grains 1 Decagramme 10 Grammes, or J OunceTHE STORE ROOM, LARDER, &c. •i.‘> 1 Hcctogrammo 1 Kilogramme i Ounce Eng i Ounce Eng 3 Ounce Eng 1 Ounce 2 Ounces 3 Ounces 4 Ounces 8 Ounces 12 Ounces 16 Ounces, or lib. ..... 1 Quarter Eng 1 Cwt 1 Ton 100 Grammes, or, roughly speaking, 3i Ounces (avoirdupois) 1000 Grammes, about 10 per cent, more than 21b. nib. English go to 5 kilos. 7 Grammes 14 Grammes 21 Grammes 28i Grammes 57 Grammes 85 Grammes 113 (Jrammes 227 Grammes 340 Grammes 454 Grammes 12 7 Kilos 50-7 Kilos 1015 Kilos Tliese figures are roughly quoted, omitting some tiny fractions, but work out well practically, and are obtained by collating the information given in the second edition of J. Bellows’s and other dictionaries.CHAPTER IV. THE LINEN CUPBOAKD. A GOOD supply of household linen is an indispensable adjunct to every well-kept and comfortable house. Con- sequently, in starting housekeeping, an effort should be inade to ensui-e a fairly generous quantity at first, as if it is fully stocked to begin with, even if only on the basis of master, mistress, the domestic staff employed at first, and one spare room, a little management, and a relatively small expense yearly, will suffice to keep the finen cupboard in working order, without an undue strain on the family finances. Now, first as to the linen cupboard itself. Of course, if available, a small room set apart for this purpose is most satisfactory, as you can then conveniently store away blankets, curtains, table covers, chintz covers, &c., which, if you follow the wise plan of having a different set of curtains, covers, &c., for summer use, have always to be provided for somewhere. If kept in the linen room in this wa.y, they are easily reached, and can be overhauled from time to time with little trouble. Moreover, a frequent look- ing over of this kind in many cases saves destimction by moth, &c. However as few people can afford to set apart a room for the linen, tfec., the next best substitute is a cupboard. This should be as large and roomy ^ can be managed, for linen is always better if each kind is kept separately and not huddled together. The cup- board should be in an airy, dry, and light part, as this tends to prevent mildew; but it should not be against an outside wall; if it can be so contrived that the hot- water pipes run through it, so much the better, as this47 THE LINEiST CUPBOARD. will lielp to air the linen. (Apropos of this, it may bo mentioned that in a house with a hot and cold water supply, a small hot closet can frequently be fitted up in the cistern room at a relatively trifling expense, and is both economical and convenient.) h ailing a satis- factory cupboai’d, the best thing is a linen press, fitted with drawers and trays for the various kinds of linen in use, and for town houses thesei are bad to beat. One of the nicest is the “ Whyte-Walton linen press, ” which is most practically fitted up, and can, I believe, be had in various sizes. If you have a suitable wall cupboard, there is one precaution that amply repays the small amount of cost and trouble it involves. This is to fit a slender wire rod close under each shelf; make some curtains of glazed calico, or, preferably, of thin glazed holland, long enough to come down and cover the shelf completely, and to fold over its contents, thus preserv- ing the linen from dust, Ac.; these are then slipped on to the rod by means of a caser, and the linen laid on the shelf inside this curtain. These curtains, of course, must from time to time be washed. The great thing in arranging either a linen press or cupboard is to have everything close at hand and easy to reach; for, to insure fair wear, each article should, when brought back from the wash, be placed at the bottom of its particular pile, the clean things being given out from the top. Regular wear is the best pre- ventive of mildew, whilst linen lasts much better if not used continuously. In large households a linen book is kept, in which every item is marked down, with its price and date of purchase, space being left after each entry to record any alteration in number, condition. &c. Be- sides this, a list of all the articles actually contained in the linen press or cupboard should be written out clearly (but without the notes, &c.), and nailed to the door of the press for constant reference, the linen and this list being checked at special intervals by compari- son with the previously mentio'iied book. Of course, in smaller households this arrangement can be modified to suit individual requirements, but it cannot be too strongly insisted upon, that the more housekeeping, in all its branches, is put on a strictly methodical and business footing, the better it is for all concerned. It may be here observed that in some very large estab- lishments the linen belonging to each separate bedroom is often kept in a drawer, or small chest, in the roomHOUSEHOLD HINTS. 48 itself, the linen being marked with the name of its special destination, and a list being fixed to the chest, «fec., containing it, as mentioned above for the linen press. Now, with regard to the quantity of linen required. The usual allowances are three pairs of sheets to each bed (where economy has to be considered, five pairs may be made to do for every two beds of the same size). As to the use of sheets, housekeepers entertain different opinions; .wine make their sheets up into pairs, others, again, divide them into upper and under sheets, their arrangement being to allow one under .sheet for each bed, either weekly or fortnightly, and two upper sheets for the same period, as they consider this greatly lessens the washing bill. Of course, this involves a larger number of upper than of under sheets. Another practice, where economy is concerned, is to have a clean sheet every week, the top sheet of one week becoming the under one of the following week - this, however, is a question that each housewife must decide for herself. From three to four pillowcases for each pillow, and the same number of bolster cases, if the latter are used. From six to nine chamber towels for each member of the family. Three hath towels for each person. Servants are usually allowed from three to four face towels, and two to three bath toivels, a head. These numbers allow, in the first case, from two to three face towels (one being changed in the course of the week) and one bath towel weekly; in the second, one face towel iveekly and one bath towel fortnightly. Two toilet covers for each toilet table (or three between two of a size), if in constant use. Two sets of short window screens for each window. where these are used. One white quilt for each bed, and one or two extra for each size, so as to allow for an occasional change for each bed. Three to four large tableclothes for dinner, and the same number for luncheon and breakfast, is the very smallest number available. The number of these, in point of fact, must, of course, vai-y with the amount of enter- taining, in which case six or twelve of each kind will be none too large. Twelve napkins to each tablecloth is the usual allow- ance, and for ordinary purposes is a fair one j but this,THE LINEN CUPBOARD. 49 again, depends a great deal on the amount of enter- taining. Where economy has to be considered, and a large supply of napkins is not possible, sets of napkins are a mistake; for if. on any occasion, you require an extra supply, the napkins, if in sets, will not match, which never looks well. So by far the best plan is to buy one’s napkins (whether for lunch or dinner) of a convenient medium size, and all of the same pattern and quality. Twelve dessert d’oyleys, according to necessity. A dozen, however, is the least. Four to six traycloths; four to six afternoon teacloths. Four to six fish nar>kins, if used. These are no longer so general. Three to four sideboard cloths. Four kitchen tablecloths; two or more dishing-un cloths. Three roller towels each, for scullery, pantry, and house- maid’s pantry, if there be one. Six to nine teacloths for kitchen and pantry, respec- tively. Six to nine glasscloths for the pantry and the housemaid. Six to nine kitchencloths for the pantry, kitchen, and housemaid’s closet respectively. Six to nine dusters for kitchen, pantry, and housemaid’s closet respectively. Six to nine coarse kitchencloths, and Six knifecloths, for kitchen use. One under and two to three upper blankets to each bed. One eiderdown, or thick flannel quilt, and one coloured summer quilt for each bed. The summer quilts are prac- tically merely decorative, and, like the pillow and sheet shams, so much affected by many housewives, are re- moved when preparing the bed for sleeping at night. From four to six yards of hosise flannel should always be kept at hand in the linen cupboard or store room for giving out as required, and there should always be a supply of dusting sheets for use during cleaning. These may be old sheets, pa.st use in their proper capa- city, or they may be made of lengths of unbleached calico or holland for the purpose. Another item which adds greatly to the cleanliness and appearance of bed- rooms is the mattress case. Abroad, where housewives are much more particular than they are in this country, each mattress has a case, which is slipped over thosid^s and ends, to protect it from any chance of dust, &c., in bedmaking, which cases are removed and washed at EHOUSEHOLD HINTS. 50 intervals, tlius adding greatly to the freshness and clean- liness of the beds. These cases may be made eitlier of the well-known blue-check cotton, or, preferably, of glazed holland. The above quantities are, of course, not a hard and fast list, but an approximate idea of the amount required for comfort in a household, consisting of master and mistress, three servants, and occasional visitors. With regard to the weekly allowance of linen, much variety of ideas prevails. The usual run is a change of sheets weekly (or, as said before, one sheet changed every week where economy has to be considered); but in large households two to three changes of bed linen weekly are not out of the way. Pillow cases are changed weekly, or one clean one is allowed extra in the middle of the week. Or else the top pillows are covered with more or less ornamental cases, known as “pillow shams,” which are removed at night. In some households, also, a strip of linen, the width of the sheet and about 1 yard deep, more or less decorated, and known as a “ sheet sham, ” is slipped in and turned over the regular sheets and eiderdown, for day use, which, of course, protects the real sheets from dust, &c., whilst adding to the appearance of the bed. It is a melancholy fact that, where economy must be considered, embroidered and frilled sheets and pillow slips add both to the linen and the washing bill; more- over, unless one possesses really first-rate servants, or has the time to look after things oneself, sets of bed linen, trimmed to correspond, are very apt to be mis- matched and worn unevenly. Face towels are changed weekly, either one thick and one thin one, or two thick and one thin one being allowed a head, but this again varies, from a bi-weekly to a daily change. Bath towels are changed from once to twice a week. Two napkins a week is, properly speaking, the mini- mum, one for luncheon and breakfast and one for dinner, but in many houses two a week each are given, and in some cases they are changed daily. Servants’ sheets are usually changed fortnightly, or the upper sheet of one week oecomes the under sheet of the next. For servants’ towels, one face towel a week and one bath towel a fortnight is the general allowance. Now with regard to the material; for bed linen, pure51 THE LINEN CUPBOARD. linen is undoubtedly the nicest, but is, equally certainly, the most expensive to start with, so that many house mistresses prefer to buy cotton sheets, which, being cheaper, they can afford to wear out and throw aside fas dusting sheets, &c.), whereas the cost of linen neces- sitates a good deal of mending and repairing, which, in these days, when servants are by no means clever at, or fond of, darning and mending, would in small house- holds almost inevitably fall on the mistress. Jjinen sheets and pillow cases are usually provided for the beet bedrooms; cotton sheets for nursery use, with heavier or twilled cotton for the servants’ beds. But even for these, in most households, linen pillow cases are pre- ferred, both for comfort and durability. It should be remembered that for invalids or rheumatic people cotton sheets are better than linen, which is apt to strike cold. For table linen, nothing comes up to double damask, and though the first cost of this is undoubtedly high, it is weil worth the extra expense, as it both wears and washes better than inferior or single damask, neither of which keep their beauty in the wash, and, moreover, soil much quicker. It may be observed, for the benefit of the economical, that patterns vary a good deal in price, though the actual quality of the damask may be the same. Spots and small all-over designs are usually less expensive than large central patterns, whilst, naturally, the newer the design, the higher will be the price. It is well to remember that twics a year most of the large household linen manufacturers sell off their old stocks at such a reduction that it is well worth the housekeeper’s while to look out for these times, as they enable her, if not absolutely bent on the very latest fads and fancies, to keep up her linen cupboard both cheaply and satisfactorily. Remember that, to look well, a tablecloth should hang quite 12 inches over the sides of the table, and fully 18 inches at the ends; so the cloth should always be a yard longer and fully three- quarters of a yard (at least) wider than the dining-table it is to cover. (Whilst on the subject of the tablecloth, it is well to bear in mind that no table will look well, however fine the napery, if the latter is laid directly on the table. There should always be a thick under- cover of baize, felt, or Canton flannel, even under the ordinary table-cover in use when the qloth is not on. This makes the linen lie smooth and look thick and glossy.) E 2HOUSEHOLD HINTS. 1 KO For napkins, as said before, it is always best to adhere to one size, pattern, and quality as then they work in well together. Of course, this hint is only for small households. Napkins are mostly made in three sizes, '22, 27, and 31 inches st^uare, but the most practical size is the middle one. as this does for both lunch and dinner. There is in some houses a fancy for the German fashion of plain or self-coloured linen cloths, trimmed with lace, for lunch, and also for sideboard cloths, and very well the plain, creamy, or self-coloured, lace-trimmed cloths look for the sideboard and carving-table; but in most houses small doubled tablecloths (perhaps too old to spread well) are used for this purpose. As a matter of fact, any woman clever wdth her needle can add to the beauty of her linen cupboard at very small money cost, by working or making tray, tea, or sideboard cloths, ■with embroidery, Ru.ssian and drawn work, lace, (fee., as she pleases. For kitchen tablecloths, buy the strong unbleached linen cloths sold for the purpose. With regard to the “cloths,” it is well to buy those w'hich have their nature wo•^'■en in the border, such as “kitchen,” “glass,” “tea.” &c., and, as you value your peace of mind, choose different sorts for each maid, or you will always be a victim to the carelessness or laziness of the other maid. Thus, have the variou,s cloths sacred to the kitchen all red; say, the parlourmaid’s correspond- ing articles, blue; whilst the housemaid has a check all over. In this way you can at once hold each responsible for her supply, and avoid disturbances, because of one having taken the other’s cloths unnoticed. How cloths and dusters of all kinds disappear, none but the experi- enced housekeeper knows, and that much-tried ■woman has even yet not evolved a plan for preventing the flight of such articles, and is still wondering whether it is best to buy cheap cloths, make each maid wash her own (sending a proportion each week to the laundry to preserve their colour), and pass over their non-appear- ance; or to buy better articles, and insist on the return of every cloth given out one week before the next supply of clean ones is given out. But unless the mistress her- .self sees to the making out of the laundry list, and personally superintends the giving out of the weekly allowance, this latter plan is seldom successful. When a nursery has to he provided for, anotber “separate” set of cloths must be gi^ven out, or disturb- ances will be inevitable. Indeed, it is always best, when53 THE LINEN CUPBOARD. possible, to set up the nursery entirely, allowing a separate outfit of cloths, dusters, crockery, cutlery, pails and brushes, as this tends to alleviate in some measure the feud that always appears to rage between the nur- sery maid and the housemaid. One of the troubles that beset a young housewife is the question of the cloths to be given out weekly to the various servants. Roughly speaking, for a household of eight or ten altogether it will be found that one table- cloth, one dishing-up cloth, one roller towel, three or four kitchen cloths, two knife cloths, a teacloth, and two or three dusters will be sufficient for the cook. For the parlourmaid, two teacloths, two glass cloths, two or three dusters, one knife cloth, and a roller towel will be ample for the same time; whilst the housemaid will need two or three dusters, two kitchen cloths (dif- ferent from the cook’s), a chamber cloth, a slop cloth, one roller towel, a glass cloth, and one or twO' teacloths. In the nurssry, one glass cloth, two teacloths, one slop cloth, and two dusters will be sufficient. Care should be taken in making out the washing book, and it should be rigidly kept up, both in sending out and when coming home. The washing list should be kept in a strongly-bound book, as nothing is more dis- conc3rting than to find loose leaves, and on no account should the receipts be added to the washing-book. A small book should be kept separately for these, or the bills should be carefully endorsed and added to the mistress’s^ hill file. It is well to examine the linen closely when it comes home from a new laundress for sevei'al weeks; though, when you and she have settled in, this examination need only occur at intervmls. The reason for this inspection is to ascertain the treatment your linen is undergoing. It is easy enough to distin- guish bad or careless washing. Starched clothes sent home like bricks, argue, at least, an unskilful laundress ; streaky or over-blued linen indicates either careless washing or an undue amount of blue having been used to hide bad work; white clothes, clammy to the touch (though not damp) and with an unpleasant smell, betray insufficient rinsing, for unless the soap is well and thoroughly rinsed out, the linen will always have a disagreeable odour. Hard, shrunken flannel or woollen goods proves the presence of washing soda in the water they were put into, over-hot water, or, lastly, too quick drying in front of a fire or in a hot room. Grimy,HOUSEHOLD HINTS. 54 ill-washed linen should always make one suspect “bleachers,” wliich, in the hands of bad or careless workers', spell ruin to the clothes. It is easy to tell when lime (the chief foundation of most so-callecl ex- tractors) has been used, as, instead of the thinness wearing into a re^jular hole which comes from wear and tear, the linen will be found perforated with a riddle of tiny pinholes as if a moth had been working at it. It IS well to remember that linen begins to want attention within a very short time of being taken into wear. Buttons and tapes disappear mysteriously, the corners come unhemmed, the hem itself gets torn (show- ing where a careless washerwoman has pinned, instead of pegging, it to the drying rope), frills come unsewn, &c.. and. unless attended to at once, will lead to a great deal of unnecessary work. In large houses a linen maid is kept, whose duty it is to see to these things; in smaller houses the housemaids do the mending, or, where men servants are not kept, the housemaids do the bed linen and the mistress’s mending, the parlour- maid seeing to her master’s mending and the table linen, whilst in other families the useful maid, or the mistress, sees to the household mending. One more point de- serves consideration with regard to linen, and that is the marking. All linen should be plainly and clearly marked, and with house linen, even where embroidered monograms, &c.. are used, a corner on the w’rong side of the hem, or some other inconspicuous place, should be marked plainl.v with marking ink. In ordinary cloths, &c., the mark is placed in the top left-hand corner, as this shows plainly when folded for ironing. The scheme of marking is a matter of personal taste, but it is as well to have, beside the name or initials of the owner, the date of the purchase, the number of the set to which the article belongs, with its own individual number; 4 Smith 12, 1903, would show that the napkin thus marked was No. 4 of a dozen bought by Mrs tsmith in 1903; whilst, if liked, “lunch” or “dinner” placed under the name would show that the napkin in question belonged to the dinner or lunch set.CHAPTER V. PARLOUK AND HOUSE MAIDS’ WORK. The parlourmaid’s work depends a good deal on the household. In some she is practically a feminine butler; she has charge of the wine, plate, valets her master, rnd has one or more parlourmaids under her, for the perfection of whose work she is responsible. The only difference between her and the butler being that she and the maids under her are responsible for the proper mending of the table linen and of the master’s clothes. In such cases the sweeping and dusting of the dining, and smoking or billiard room, belong to the parlour- maids, the upper one being responsible for the proper condition of these rooms and also of the drawing-room, though the actual dusting, sweeping, and grate cleaning, of this room belong to the housemaid’s work. In other families the parlourmaid has no one under her, the housemaid having her own separate share of work, thougli, on occasion, such as the parlourmaid’s outing, or a large dinner party, she would help the parlourmaid with the waitingj &c. , The parlourmaid also has charge of the plate, glass, lamps, and the brasses and mirrors in the various public rooms. To the housemaid belongs the charge of the bedrooms, stairs, hall, bathrooms, &c.. together with the grate cleaning and the charge of the drawing-room, and boudoir, if there be one. Where the parlourmaid is single-handed, and the housemaid is also single-handed, she works in a good deal with the parlourmaid, the parlourmaid assisting the housemaid in the making of the double beds, &c., and the turning-out of the drawing-5G HOUSEHOLD HINTS. room at special cleaning times, also doing some portion of her work when the housemaid is out; whilst the latter must be prepared to wait when necessary, and also to do the parlourmaid’s work when the latter is out. Thus it will be seen that, the smaller the household, the more “give and take” there must be between these two maids, and it is on the proper division of this interchange that the comfort of the household must, in great measure, depend. For this reason it behoves the mistress to arrange the work according to the ways and habits of her family, and so to come to a clear understanding with each servant at the time of engaging her. Roughly speaking, the work of the public rooms belong to the parlourmaid, whilst the housemaid has charge of all the so-to-say private rooms, stairs, &c., and in most cases lifts the larger proportion of actual hou.sework off die shoulders of the parlourmaid. Where no lady’s maid is kept, the housemaid “maids” the mistress. One point may be noted here, and that is the question of knocking at doors. No well-trained maid ever knocks at the door of a public-room unless she knows the doctor to be in the room with either her master or mistress; but, equally, no well-trained servant would dream of entering either bed or dressing room without knocking to a.scertain if her entrance is con- venient. The following pages will give some idea of the work belonging to the parlourmaid and housemaid, but, as said before, the mistress mu.st adapt these general rules to her own individual requirements. The Care of Lamps and Lamp Stoves. Few things give more trouble in the household than the care of lamps and lamp stoves, and, where there is not a competent parlourmaid to attend to them, it would be well if the British housewife would emulate her cousin outremer, and take the charge of them into her own hands. Of course, the first outcry will be: “ Oh, it is such dirty work!” But this is an utter mistake. Lamp tendance is only dirty work in the hands of a slatternly worker; a tidy woman can do it perfectly without soiling her fingers verj' much (nothing like so much as photography would do) or causing any smell. To begin with, no lamp should be cleaned, trimmed, or filled at any time save in the morning, for after dark there is always a certain risk in handling petroleum.PARLOUR AND HOUSE MAIDS’ AYORK. 57 kerosine, or whatever kind of mineral oil you choose. The lamp-container should bo perfectly clean. To ensure this, wash it out at regular intervals in soapsuds, to wliich you have added a spoonful or so of Scrubb s cloudy ammonia, rinse it well, and leave it to drain till thoroughly dry and clean. A lamp should be filled up daily till nearly, but not quite, full; if overfilled, the lamp will soil everything that touches it, will give out a horrible, greasy smell, and in many cases becomes actually dangerous. If not filled sufficiently, or if lighted with only a little oil at the bottom of the con- tainer, it generates an explosive gas, ■which may at any time become a source of danger. When a lamp is to be left unlighted for more than twenty-four hours the wick should be removed and the oil poured away, for soaking in the oil, the wick w''ill corrode and will spoil the oif and the container should always, if possible, be washed’ out as described above, after being left unused for any time. The container should be regularly emptied out ovei*y ten days or so and cleansed as above, as this keeps the lamp and the oil in good condition. Everj- good lampmaker will tell you that in 99 cases out of 100 accidents or “explosions” are due either to sheer dirt, to bad oil, or misfitting wicks. “Cheap” oil is never really satisfactory. It means one of two things (and very often both), either the oil is insufficiently purified, in which case it smokes and gives out a most horrible smell, while the light is far from satisfactory; or else the “flash” point is a dangerously low one. A great deal has been said concerning this same flash point, and it has been discussed in trade committees, and also in inquiries in the House of Commons, without evolving much more than that a low flash point is a distinct danger. This “flash” pioint, put plainly, simply means the degree of heat at wh'ch mineral oil gives off a vapour, which may be, and very often is, little short of deadly. This flash point in foreign, cheap oils stands mostly at a dangerously low figure; in this country, however, most of the petroleum sold has its flash point at 73 deg. Fahr., i.e., rather above the Government standard, which in itself is all right. The danger, however, is this—should the temperature of the room be Go dfeg. to 68 deg. Fahr. (no uncommon heat for a living room, especially with a fire), the oil in the lamp, after lighting and burning for two or three or more hours, heats in proportion, and ris- ing, as it will do, to 6 deg. or 8 deg. above the surrounding58 HOUSEHOLD HINTS. atmosphere, passes the flash point, gives off vapour, and becomes dangerous, an explosion becoming merely a question of time. This is, in point of fact, tne cause of half the “explosions” of which one hears. If oil with a flash point of 100 deg. were insisted on. this risk would, in this country at all events, be absolutely obviated. Of course, this increases the price of the oil sornewhat; still, only to a very insignificant degree, whilst, besides being safer, such oil gives an incom- parably better light. This question of the safety of a high flash point in oil was thrashed out some eight or nine years ago before the Petroleum Committee of the House of Commons, at which a w’itness, chosen by the London Chamber of Commerce, asserted from his own experience that safety would not be attained till the 100 deg. Fahr. “flash” point (close test) was made obligatory. Having secured a clean lamp and good oil. the next point to consider is the wick. This must fit the burner exactly! This cannot be too strongly in.sisted on. It should just fill the burner, not loosely, but only just tight enough to ensure its working evenly when turned up or down. It should be cut just long enough to reach the bottom of the container and no more. If left soaking 2 or more inches in the oil, as some maids will have it, beyond what is needed to reach the bottom, the wick will become clogged and hard, and will never burn satisfactorily. Some people say the wick should always be soaked for some little time in vinegar, then well dried, before use. This is said to prevent smoking; it is certainly a good plan for cleansing a clogged wick. With regard to the trimming of the wick, opinions differ as to the use of scissors, or the cutters sold by many lampmakers for the purpose. .Again, some say neither should ever be used at all, the wick being simply rubbed with a soft piece of paper till all the charred part is removed. The latter is a very good plan, if the cleaner can be depended on to remove all the burnt part evenly. A very good thing is, if scissors mu.st be used, to trim the lamp with them, then burn it for twenty or thirty minutes, after which turn it out, and rub off the charred part with the paper. An ill or unevenly trimmed lamp never burns well, and almost always smokes. In lights ing a lamp wise people say that the match sliould never be applied directly to the wick, but held as near as you can over the wick, without actually to\iching it, till thePARLOUR AND HOUSE MAIDS’ WORK. 6y latter catches fire. In ligliting a lamp have the wick turned down as low as you can, actually to light it, and let it burn thus for a few minutes, not turning it up till the chimney is well warmed, as this saves smoke and the flying of the lamp chimney. Always keep the wick turned down low when the lamp is not in use. If this is neglected, the oil oozes up between the collar and the container of the lamp, whici) results in dirt and unpleasant smell. After the wick, the burner requires consideration. Probably it may be news to many people to hear that the burner requires a thorough cleansing every month or so. Yet if this is not done regularly and carefully, the wick holder fouls, the air (on which the safety of the lamp depends) is intercepted through the clogging of the airholes, the oil reaches “flash” point (always a low one in the cheaper foreign oils), the container, whether metal, china, or glass, bursts, and in a minute or two the place is in flames. This is the history of nine out cf ten of the so-called explosions, and though, of course, in a cheap lamp the danger is considerably greater than in a well-made, sub- stantial one, yet dirty burners are by no means confined to poor people’s lamps! Some time since I was con- sulting a well-known lamp maker on this subject, and he told me: “ I always now look at the burner the very first thing when a lamp is brought to me for repair, and in nine cases out of ten I find it the cause of the trouble. Look at this,” taking a burner from a drawer as he spoke. It evidently belonged to a large and costly lamp, but anything so filthy I never expect to see again I It was clogged with dirty, corroded oil, charred wick, even dead flies, and, of course, the gauze protector was hope- lessly closed up. “Well, that beauty came out of a very expensive lamp I sold to a customer rather over six months ago, and he brought me back the lamp the other day, in a towering rage at ‘ the utterly worthless kind of lamp’ I had recommended. I promised to see to it, and asked him to call back in a day or so. This is the burner! I cleaned the lamp container, which had very evidently never been emptied out since it left my shop, and fitted on a fre.sh burner, and, when the customer returned, I lit it. It burned admirably. He asked me what I had done, so I told him, but had very hard work to convince him that this really was his burner. How- ever. he took the lamp back, and has since written to say it is burning admirably, and gives no trouble. In short.()0 HOUSEHOLD HINTS. it is being kept clean! I kept tlio old burner as a horrid example.” Another risk with inferior lamps is that they have no safety attachments, as pretty well all well-made lamps have now, so that, if they are upset, the oil runs out. the lamp does not go out, and the whole place is in a blaze, and this takes rank as an “ explosion,” though in truth it is nothing but the outcome of dirt, carelessness, and false economy. Even, however, if it does not possess a safety attachment, an upset lamp need not entail an accident, if the lamp is caught up at once before the oil has time to heat and then catch alight. If it does, the only thing is to smother the flame with a heavy rug or curtain. The only other thing that will put out petro- leum is sand; so a large vase may be kept in some corner full of this in case of accidents if people are nervous. To clean the burner, unscrew it from the collar, and, if pretty dirty, take it to pieces (this is fairly easy with a little care and attention, so as to enable you to replace it properly); then place these pieces in a pan kept for the purpose, with a knob of soda about the size of a walnut, pour on to this sufficient cold water to cover it all, bring this well to the boil, and let it continue to boil for a few minutes till the pieces appear clean; then lift them out^ rinse first in clean, hot water, and then in cold, dry lightly with a cloth, and put them in some warm place till perfectly dry, after which replace them in order, tit on the burner, and the lamp is ready for use. It is always well to make this monthlj' cleaning of the burner coincide with the putting in of a fresh wick, and a thorough cleaning out of the container, when the whole thing will start fresh and in good order. By the way, a piece of camphor, about the size of a hazel- nut. or a saltspoonful of salt, added to the oil in the container improves the brilliancy of the light wonder- fully. Always remember to wipe the neck of the lamp carefully after lighting it, for when a lamp is no longer quite new the oil oozes into the cement round the collar, and, if any of this is left moist, directly the lamp becomes heated it gives off a most offensive smell. This is generally the reason for the prejudice against lamp stoves, which are usually worse treated, in the matter of cleanliness, than lamps, which is saying a good deal. It must be remembered that everything said of lamp trimming applies equally forcibly to the trimming, clean- sing, &c., of lamp stoves.PARLOUR AND HOUSE MAIDS’ WORK. 61 There has been some discussion with regard to the material of lamp containers, but, if of good quality, there is really very little difference m the safety of metal, china, or glass; indeed, more than one good lamp- maker has asserted that the latter i.s even to be preferred to metal, as being cooler, and its transparency tending to ensure the cleanliness of the oil, on which the light so much depends. Very cheap lamps of inferior quality are never .safe, though, with care, cleanliness, and good oil they can be made to work very satisfactorily; but the least neglect of any of these points will meet with sharp punishment. Unfortunately, the people who burn cheap lamps all but invariably use cheap, unrefined oil with a very low flash point, and seldom, if ever, realise <-he necessity of cleaning either burner or container, with results only too frequently chronicled in the daily papers. It is quite possible to get inexpensive, but abso- lutely safe, lamps by going to respectable makers, but, of course, these will not compete in price or decora- tion (?) with the flashy, so-callod artistic, lamps sent from abroad, and costing but a few pence each. The difference is, the one is made to burn, the other to sell. One word>as to lamp chimneys. These should, if pos- sible, never be washed at all, but cleansed with a proper lamp chimney cleaner or brush. If in a very bad condition and smoke stained, cleanse with a thick paste of whiting mixed with methylated spirits, or else use dry salt, and polish with an 9H soft newspaper (good housewives say that something in the printers’ ink always gives brilliancy to glass, and for that reason use it to polish windows, juirrors, &c., as well as lamp glasses). If it is absolutely necessary to wash the chimney, wash, and rinse well, then put it aside, and do not use it till bone dry. Some people put the lamp glasses on before use, in cold water, brin^ this slowly to the boil, let it continue to boil for a minute or two hard, then lift the pan off gently, and do not touch the glass till the water round it is perfectly cold. This is said to harden the glass. With regard to the amount of oil used, an ordinary small lamp holds a full pint of oil, whilst the ordinary large duplex takes nearly a quart, and in winter will nearly burn that out in one evening. It is, therefore, fairly easy to reckon for oneself the amount needed for one’s household. If there is storage, it is always more satisfactory to buy oil in bulk, drawing off the required62 HOUSEHOLD HINTS. quantity every morning early, and only keeping in the house just what is needed to fill up the lamps. The Care of Vlate. Nowadays, when necessity obliges us to curtail our household staff as closely as may be, fashion at the same time requires us to use as much silver or plate as wo can anyway compass for our dinner, dressing, and last, but not least, drawing-room curio tables. Now, the keeping of silver in good condition entails a great deal of care, and not a little work, .so that, when the neces- sary hands are few, it behoves us to try and find the best method of preserving its brilliance and cleanliness. After this statement, it may seem a contradiction in terms to declare that in nine households out of ten, where silver is cared for at all, it is cleaned far too often. Yet the solid, steady “clean,” which some par- lourmaids, and mistresses too, consider indispensable for the well-being of their cherished plate, at weekly, or at most, fortnightly intervals, is not only very weari- some to the operator, but, in spite of the brilliancy it gives, distinctly not to the benefit of the plate itself. To begin with, much rubbing, it stands to reason, destroys and blurs the pattern of delicately engraved or chased silver; whilst, moreover, many of the plate powders,, used with the best intentions, are apt to spoil the surface of the plate; especially is this the case with electro-plate, as these powders very often contain mer- cury, which causes the silvering to beaome brittle and worn. The best thing to do for silver is to wash it, whenever u.sed, in boiling soapsuds, to which you may add a little ammonia if you like, as this certainly increases the brightness of the metal. Till the soapsuds are sufficiently cool to let you put your hand in them, .stir the silver in the water very gently with a clean, old wooden spoon; then, as soon as they are washed, rinse the articles in some more clean, hot water; when thoroughly rinsed, dry them as quickly as possible, for, if left about wet, the surface will be disfigured by water marks. They should be leathered vigorously as soon as they are dry, and whilst still hot; and should, as much as possible, be kept from the action of the atmo- sphere, the changes in which are responsible for a great deal of tarnish. Large articles should have special ^en baize bags made to fit them, and should be stored eitherPARLOUR AND HOUSE MAIDS’ WORK. 63 ill a plate chest or a dry drawer, lined, if possible, with green baize. Pieces of pure camphor stored with the silver are said to preserve its brilliancy wonderfully. Forks and spoons in daily use should be placed in a proper baize-lined plate basket, containing divisions for the difiFerent kinds and classes of plate. This basket, by the way, should be cleaned out weekly, turned upside down, patted gently, and then the baize thoroughly brushed, to remove any risk of dust or grit, for it can- not be too strongly insisted on that all chances of scratching (which with so soft a metal are, unfortunately, but too common) must be scrupulously avoided. If silver is treated in this way whenever used, once a month will be generally found quite often enough for the regular “clean.” When cleaning silver, however, it should be carefully examined for stains, indentations, or other in.iuries. The stains may usually be treated by oneself, but the bruises, &c., should be seen to at once by a good silversmith. At the same time, warn your servants that silver is veir easily damaged, and insist on their being careful with it. In old days the best silver was invariably washed and cleaned by the ladies of the household, who could afford the time and trouble (and had a personal interest in the thing.s) to do them properly, and thus to minimise the risks. Now this, in many cases, the parlourmaid is not able to do, and often, not having any personal interest in the matter, does not pay much attention to the subject. Before describing the regular clean, it may be as well to give some hints with regard to the ordinary washing of plate. Never lean forks or spoons against the table to clean them, as, if you do so, you will almost inevitably bend or twist them, for, unconsciously, you press too heavily on them in your attempt to secure a good polish. A very good little machine, or utensil, has been intro- duced for cleaning forks especially; the leather-covered surface is divided so as to cleanse between the prongs of the forks (a very necessary precaution, which, when no such utensil is at hand, must be effected by drawing the leather backwards and forwards between the prongs to produce the polLsh); but, even so, there is a risk of over-pressure, and it will be found better to hold forks and spoons in the hand whilst cleaning them; good plate cleaners say that no rubber is so effectual as the ball of the operator’s thumb, but this, of course, involve.s hard work.64 HOUSEHOLD HINTS. Spooas are specially liable to stain, and should be looked over for that purpose. Eggspoons, for instance, are very easily tarnished by the sulphur of the egg yolk, and when this is the case, should be washed in the ordinary manner, then rubbed up with a little fine, dry salt, and again washed. Salt and mustard spoons should never be left from day to day in the salt cellars or mustard pots, for, if they are, they will inevitably be tarnished. Fruit and other acid stains should be attended to as quickly as possible, as the longer they are left on the harder they are to remove. Salt cellars, again, unless they have glass linings, should be emptied and wiped out daily, or they will very soon be disfigured by black or green stains. The same remark applies to cake baskets, if the rich, rather buttery cakes, now so fashionable, are left in them, as the grease will soak through and turn the metal green. Teapots, especially, require a good deal more care than they usually get; they should be rinsed out daily with boiling water directly after use, and then weU dried, both inside and out. Never by any chance allow a teapot, however, to be left steeping in the tub; this is not necessary to remove any stains, and will inevitably loosen and discolour the wooden or ivory bands on the handles, &c. After washing, the teapot lid should always be left open, or else the pot will acquire a musty, disagreeable odour, which will be more than likely to flavour the next brew of tea. If such an accident has happened, fill the teapot over-night with boiling water, put in a lump of soda the size of a nut, close the hd, and let it stand till the next day, when it must be emptied out, thoroughly washed in boiling water, and scnibbed T^dth a small brush kept for the purpose; then rinsed, and well dried as before. The process should be carried out at regular intervals, if the teapot is in constant use, as accidents will happen, and the teapot may get forgotten. Sheffield plate, so much valued nowadays, is cleaned precisely in the same way as ordinai'y silver; but where, as with decanter-stands and such like, wood is mixed with the silver, the former must be carefully cleansed with a cloth wrung out of warm water, then rinsed with another cloth, similarly wrung out of cold, clean water, thoroughly dried, and covered with a sheet of paper, or something of the kind, cut to fit, whilst the silver isPARLOUR AND HOUSE MAIDS’ WORK. G5 being cleaned, as plate powder is pretty sure to spoil the surface and polish of the wood. Frosted silver should be washed in very hot, soapy water, dried with a soft cloth in front of the fire, and then well leathered; it should be carefully brushed, with * a brush kept for its use only, to ensure the removal of any dust, &c., in the crevices. When this kind of silver is cleaned at the regular plate cleaning, the plate powder used should be most thoroughly brushed out, the article again washed in boiling soapsuds, rinsed also in hot water, dried, and leathered. It is well to keep frosted silver in good condition by constant small attentions, as too frequent, serious cleanings will injure the surface of the metal. Oxidised silver, again, should be washed in hot soap and water as quickly as possible, rinsed in hot water, dried, and leathered. If, however, it is very much dis- coloured, you will find it necessary to make a solution by dissolving loz. of sulphate of soda in a pint of boiling water, then rubbing the discoloured parts with a flannel dipped in this solution; rinse, and finish off as before. Though the actual cleaning of the silver is given later, a word must be said regarding the daily washing. To keep plate in good condition you require absolutely boiling water, plenty of soapsuds (if the maid will take the trouble, she will find soap jelly infinitely better than the use of plain soap), plenty of rinsing water, and absolutely clean clotlis and leathers, for the least touch of damp or gi'ease on hither of these will utterly prevent any chance of getting the plate into good condition. This cleanliness is easy enough to secure with regard to the cloths, but the chamois leathers are a different matter. There is a kind of superstition extant that this leather is, if not impossible, at all events extremely difficult to wash successfully. As a matter of fact, granted a little care, nothing is much easier. To wash chamois leather, wash and rinse it exactly like flannel, in wai-m, but not hot, water, never rubbing with soap in the washing, but washing it with soap jelly or suds; then rinse it in clean water, of the same temperature as the first, until every trace of soap is removed, when it should be carefully pressed between the hands to get rid of as much of the water as possible; then well shaken, pulled into good shape, and hung up at once to dry, either outside in a good wind and not too hot a sun, or in a warm room where it wiU dry F6fi HOUSEHOLD HINTS. qmckly. But leatliers must never be put near an open fire, or into so hot a temperature as to cause them to steam, or they will harden and shrink at once. Bull out and rub well constantly whilst the leather is drying, and, if you like, smooth out last of all with a cool iron. If treated in this way, they will be perfectly soft and like new when you have done. Soap Jelly.—Shred down some soap (or use any odds and ends you may have saved for the purpose) with a knife, which should be kept for this use only; put this soap into a pan, just cover it with hot or cold water, and melt it very slowly over the fire until clear and absolutely smooth. This jelly will keep for several days, but, if used constantly, should be made weekly, at the outside. If preferred, the soap shreds should be placed in a jar, and melted in the oven. Any scraps of soap will do, but remember that the pan or jar, the knife, and the board, ased in its preparation must be kept for this purpose only, for they will flavour strongly and most unpleasantly anything they touch. When making this jelly do not overfill the pan, as the soap is very apt to boil over. Plate, if kept as described above, will not require nearly as frequent cleaning; indeed, once in three or four weeks will be found quite ample, unless in very foggy weather, in which case an hour or two is suffi- cient to taniish irremediably the best cleaned silver. When a regular clean is needed, arrange so as to ensure a good portion of uninterrupted time. You cannot hurry plate cleaning without scamping your work or damaging the plate, so lay your plans accordingly. Collect your cloths, leathers, brushes, &c., and see that they are perfectly clean and free from grease, then look up the silver, and sort out all that is badly stained in any way, and put that aside. Now, with regard to plate powder. There are many very good kinds on the market, but, at tbe same time, there are many consider- ably mixed with quicksilver or mercury, which is injurious to the plate. Silversmiths constantly recom- mend rouge—the non-mercurial kind, of course—and this, like the plate powders (also non-mercurial), sold by good silversmiths, such as the amalgamated firm of Messrs Mappin, Messrs Spink. &«., answer excellently. Still, personal experience leads me to prefer ordinaij plain whiting, especially if precipitated, as then it is absolutely free from any danger of grit, &c. To precipi-PARLOUR AND HOUSE MAIDS’ WORK. 67 fate whiting, tie up a sufficient quantity loosely in a piece of fine old muslin, fasten this to the handle of a jug, letting the bag hang over inside; pour over it sufficient cold water to cover the whiting completely, and let.it stand till the next day, when all the whiting should have passed through. Now pour off the clear water, and put the sediment, which is really the whiting, on to plates, or a dish, on the rack over the hot plate, or in some warm corner, till it is perfectly dry, when you should pack it in small tins, out of the dust. If you like, yon can colour this with a little jewellers’ rouge, which can be easily and cheaply bought. But though some people prefer this colour, the plain whiting is perfectly satisfactory. For use, moisten the powder required with sufficient spirit to get it to the consistency of single cream. Any spirit may be used for this mixing, methylated spirit being about the cheapest; but, when handy, unsweetened giu is considered to give the best effect. (If polishing diamonds or delicate jewellery, Eau de Cologne is the best for mixing the powder.) Having washed the silver to free it from any dust or greasiness (it will not polish properly if the least greasy), dry it, and apply the paste pretty thickly with a soft rag. Now put the article to be cleansed in some warm place, to dry it, and, when quite dry, rub it well with a clean, soft cloth, using a perfectly clean brush to remove any trace of the polishing powder from the embossing or chasing; then rub it well up with an absolutely clean soft leather, and put it away at once. Never handle well-cleaned plate more than you can help, for the heat of the hand is sufficient to tarnish it. For this reason, many experienced menservants and parlourmaids always keep a leather glove at hand when laying their tables, so as to avoid touching the plate with their bare hands. At any rate, when laying a table, a clean leather should always be handy, to give a final polish to the silver at the very last. (The same attention should also be paid to the glass on the table.) Kept in this way, there should be little difl5culty in having the silver in nice condition. For large ornamental pieces of plate, which are prac- tically never exposed to actual use, it is far better, in this climate, to have them lacquered by the process brought out by the Gold and Silver Plating Company, 166. Queen’s-road, Bayswater, as this enables the metal to withstand the effects of the atmosphere, and evenHOUSEHOLD HINTS. 68 whoa tarnished is easily rubbed up with a clean, soft leather. But remember, where plate is thus lacquered, it needs no cleaning in the ordinary way, and, at the very worst, only most gentle and careful washing in warm soap and water, using non-soda soap, rinsing well and quickly^ and drying at once. But, as a rule, careful leathering is all that it needs. Where the silver is much discoloured, old housewives give many remedies. One is to mix a little prepared chalk to a smooth paste with sweet oil, rubbing this well on to the stained parts, and finishing off in the usual way. Another method is to make a paste of hartshorn powder (procurable from the chemist) with spirits of wine, applying this in the same way. Many persons skilled in plate cleaning say that this paste is most excellent for producing a brilliant polish on an emergency, and, indeed, even prefer it to whiting for general use. Whiting, as is well known, is simply finely-ground chalk. Another very excellent thing for plate cleaning, which may be used in the daily wash, is a kind of silver soap, which may be prepared thus: Put into a pan 4oz. each of washing soda, yellow soap, and whiting, with one pint of cold water; boil all together till perfectly dis- solved, keeping it well stirred, then pour it into a jar to set; when set it may be turned out and cut into cakes. Some people run this into a dish, and then cut it up when set into bars or cakes. Another useful item in cleaning silver is the so-called silver cloth, which may be bought ready; but they are easy enough to prepare at home. Choose nice soft, clean, old rags of a convenient size, and boil them in one pint of new milk, tO' which you have added loz. of hartshorn powder. After boiling them for five minutes, wring them out, and dry before the fire, when they will be ready for use. The following is also an excellent method of cleaning blackened and neglected silver. Make a saturated solu- tion of hyposulphite of soda (a pound of which can be got for a penny or two, dissolving this in as much, but no more, water than it can thoroughly absorb), and with a soft rag or sponge moisten every part of the dirty silver with this saturated solution. In a few minutes all the black should come off; then wash the piece in warm soap and water, rinse it thoroughly clean with warm water, and dry it. To complete the work make some fine sifted whiting into a creamy paste with loz. eachPA.RLOUR AND HORSE MAIDS’ WORK. 69 of spirits of turpentine and spirits of wine. Now with a clean sponge give the silver a coat of this mixture until you have it all over the piece like whitewash, allow it to di’y completely, then, with a soft pla.te brush, brush the powder all off, and finally polish it with a soft wash- leather. Plate not actually used for eating purposes should be carefully and regularly attended to, silver or plated candlesticks especially requiring attention. Any wax spilt on these should always be removed with a cloth or flannel, wrung out of very hot, soapy water, to dis- solve the grease. Many servants have a trick of wiping this wax off with papei-, or even, worse still, scraping it with a Icnife, but this is certain to scratch and spoil the silver, and silver once scratched will never take a proper Eolish again till it has been sent to the silversmiths to e treated. Silver inkstands and other writing-table implements constantly get stained with ink, which, if treated at once, is easy enough to remove. If, however, it has been allowed to harden on, try washing it in hot borax and water; and, if this is ineffectual, rub the stains with a solution of chloride of lime, rinse them well, dry, and leather. For the lime solution, mix 4oz. chloride or lime to a smooth paste with a little cold water, and, when this is smooth and thoroughly blended, add sufficient water to bring the quantity of water used up to one and a half pints, stir it well together, cover closely, and let it stand for twentj'-four hours, stirring it occasionally. Now let it settle, then skim off any particles floating on the surface, and carefully bottle off the clear liquid, corking it down Avell. If kept tightly corked, this preserves its strength indefinitely. Plated entree dishes, dish covers tunless lacquered), and suoh like are the better for being put into a copper of boiling water in which you have dissolved a small handful of hartshoni powder, and boiled for a few minutes, as nothing else will remove the grease and freshen the plate so well. Of course, the things must be thoroughly rinsed, di-ied, and leathered subse- quently. This need only be done twice, or at most thrice, a year. With fish and dessert knives and forks, be careful never to leave them in boiling water, as this loosens the band of silver that keeps the blades and handles together, and, even if the latter do not come off, they loosen, from the dissolving of the cement, and get10 HOUSEHOLD HINTS. unsightly. Properly, such things should be washed like table knives—in a jug, so that the water never reaches the handles at all. These hints may seem very commonplace and ordinary, hut in plate cleaning, as, indeed, with many things, the work is simple enough of itself if done conscientiously, and with regard to the old saying that “ a stitch in time saves nine.” But if scamped, or done in the wrong way, it must be admitted that few things in the house- hold are more disappointing and unsatisfactory; so it is well worth the while of the person in charge to study the right methods, and to carry them out intelligently. Few cooks know how to reheat small entrees properly when to be served in the silver dish they were originally served in. This may be done perfectly safely if a sheet of blotting or kitchen paper is laid double into a baking- tin, the silver dish set on this, and boiling water poured all round the latter in the baking-tin. It can now be set in the oven, and as long as there is water in the outer pan the silver dish will come to no harm. Another hint refers to mayonnaises. These are often served in silver entree dishes, and these, when emptied out, are then found to be stained from the vinegar in the salad dressing, a stain, by the bye, which is decidedly troublesome to remove. To avoid this, pour a thin layer of aspic, or, preferably, savoury jelly, into the dish to be used, and let this get perfectly hard and set, when the mayonnaise may be put in it with perfect impunity. For this purpose the jelly should be verj' stiff. _ Failing aspic or other jelly, dissolve ^oz. of leaf gelatine in a tumbler of water, and use this just as it is setting. If the servant charged with the care of plate will follow the above directions carefully and conscientiously, she will find it easy enough, and by no means a fatiguing process, to keep her plate in first-rate condition; hut she must always remember that nothing will give a good polish to a greasy and badly-washed piece of silver, and that however careful she is in the matter of hot water, cfec., unless her cloths, leathers, and brushes are, all alike, free from damp, dirt, and grease, she will be dis- appointed with the result. To the parlourmaid belongs also the care of the glass used in the dining-room and also the breakfast and tea sets, and it is well for ber to realise that there is a right and a wrong way of caring for both of these. To begin with washing china: Wash this in thoroughly hotPARLOUR AND HOUSU MAIDS’ WORK. 7i soapy water, but if there is the least gilding on the china, never use any soda, as this almost always destroys the brilliancy, and, indeed, the actual existence of the gilding; rinse thoroughly, and dry with a soft teacloth. Soda, as a matter of fact, is seldom, if ever, needed for delicate china, as a flannel and hot water easily remove any grease there may be; also- remember that hard rubbing destroys the colour on painted china. Teacups or teapots stained with tea should be rubbed with dry salt, which will completely remove the mark. Never place any delicate china into boiling water, or in a hot oven, or it will almost inevitably crack. Of glass there are many kinds, each requiring care in the washing if the best effect is to be produced. Tliere is moulded glass, which is made by pouring molten glass into steel moulds. This is the cheapest form of glass, but, if kept clean and bright, looks very well for ordinary purposes. The well-known cut glass, the most expensive form, has every facet cut separately on the surface of very clear, thick glass, and then has to be most care- fully polished after cutting. The cut glass made in England is said to be a specialite of that country, unrivalled by any other form made abroad. To keep this clean it must be thoroughly well brushed out before washing, to prevent any dust clogging the cuttings. Engraved glass requires no special treatment. Frosted glass, which, if good, is also expensive, requires to be kept most scrupulously clean if to be seen to advantage. All glass, especially drinking glass, is improved by being willed in ammoniated soapy water, which should be fairly hot. but not boiling, then thoroughly rinsed in clean, cold water, and left upside down to drain on a tray or rack; dry with a clean, soft glass cloth, and polish with a leather. Tvvo or three times a week a little vinegar may be added to the rinsing water, as this brightens the gl^ greatly. The rinsing water should always be cold; if it is hot, the glass will look smeary and cloudy. Wineglasses are washed in the same way, but care must be taken in drying them, for, if not care- fully held, nothing is easier than to screw off the bowl from the stem. If tumblers have been used for milk, or wineglasses for gravy for a child, cold water should be at once poured into them to rinse off the grease and prevent its sinking into the glass, arferwards cleaning it as above. Decanters would seldom, if ever, get into the state72 HOUSEHOLD HINTS. they often do, to the annoyance of housewives, were it made a practice of pouring a little cold water iuto them directly the wine they contained is finished; this is especially the case with port. To cleanse them in the ordinary way, put a small handful of tea leaves, with a gill each of vinegar and water, and a knob of salt the size of a walnut, into the bottle, and let it stand for an hour or two, shaking it occasionally; then rinse out well in cold water dry with a soft glass cloth, polish with a chamois leather, and leave it, neck downwards, to drain. If cleaning decanters in this way, be careful never to put the stopper in again till the decanter is perfectly dry. Eggshells crushed up in a little salt and mixed with warm water; or sliced raw potato in warm water; or pieces of well-soaked brown paper rolled up and added to warm water, are all i-ecommended for the cleansing of stained decanters, which in either case should be well shaken with warm water, then thoroughly rinsed out with cold. Silver sand is good for brightening glass, but, unle.ss very carefully rinsed out, is apt to adhere to the glass, whilst small shot or “ sparrow hail,” much beloved by meuservants for glass cleaning, is apt to scratch the glass, and so endanger its future brilliancy. Lamp globes, should be washed, like tumblers, at fre- quent intervals, being careful to dust them well before putting them into the water. They should not be dried with a cloth, but stood on a rack, and left to dr3' gradually; never use again till perfectly dry. Always use a wooden tub, or a papier mache bowl for glass and china, as it is less likely to cause accidents. Knives-—These require far more attention than they usually receive. To begin with, a knife .should never be placed in a tub or basin, for, if immersed in water, especially hot water, it will soften the cement which fixes the handle; this will loosen, and the knife will, in a very short time, look untidy and shabby. As, how- ever, knives must be washed, the best plan is to keep a special jug for the purpose, just long enough to take the knife blades without allowing the water to reach the handles; pour hot water into this, with a little soda or ammonia, and leave them in it for a little, after which wipe well, and then rub up the handles; they may then be polished. Now, with regard to polishing knives there is a good deal of difference of opinion. Knife machines, especially good ones, are undoubtedlyPARLOUR AND HOUSE MAIDS’ WORK. 73 great labour savers, but equally certainly, unless care- fully handled, they work destruction to the knives; one cause of trouble is that untrained servants put unwashed, greasy knives in the machine, and so spoil and clog the brushes, and certainly, uidess very care- fully managed, these machines have a tendency to wear down the knife blades, and, in the hands of a careless girl, to break them. But this, of course, arises from the abuse, and not the use, of the knife machine. Undoubtedly one of the most satisfactory methods of cleaning (for the knife owner) is an ordinary knife- board, sprinkled with knife powder, or vei*y finely- powdered bath brick, on which the knife is lightly rubbed backwards and forwards, leaning very lightly on the blade as you do so. If too heavy pressure is applied, it will turn the blade and wear away the point; for this reason some mistresses prefer the knife to be laid on the knife board, and the knife rubbed up with a cork dipped in the powder. Stains may be removed from the blades, either by stabbing them into the earth or rubbing them well with a cut potato. (N.B.—Either of these methods remove the taint of onion.) Always dust knives thoroughly after cleaning them. Should the ivory knife handles become stained, cleanse them with fine salt moistened with lemon juice on a flannel rag. There is a powder called Zampo, which is most excellent for cleaning ivory. Flower vases, especially those used for dining-room decoration, should be most carefully kept, being well washed and rinsed to prevent staining. In many houses the parlourmaid has the charge of the floral decorations, in some the misti-ess undertakes it; but. in any case, there is one strict rule, dirty or stained flower vases and half-wilted flowers are the mai-ks of a slattern. Tho water should be changed daily, the flower vases being well rinsed out befoi'e fresh water is put in, the dead flowers carefully picked out, and a tiny bit of the stems snipped off the rest if they seem faded. A fact that servants are very slow to recognise is that all foliage should be stripped off the parts of the stems that go into the water, as othenvise these decay and foul the water, killing the flowei’s, and producing a most offensive smell. Brasses, &c. Another point to be impressed on par- lourmaids ^yho have charge of brasses, copper, &c., is that no polish should ever, on any excuse, be applied to lacquered articles. If once applied, the metal polish74 HOUSEHOLD HINTS. will spoil the surface of the lacquer and with the best kind will produce a cloudiness which will require to be rubbed off and cleaned up daily if the article is to be kept in good condition. Should the article be of a less gO(^ quality, it will be probably found that the metal polish and the rubbing it involves will not only remove the lacquer, but also the coating of brass, copper, &c., with which the inferior foundation metal is, so to speak, plated. Lacquered goods should be rubbed up with a leather, and, if dirty, washed with a little good soap and tepid water (no soda), and well dried; in extreme cases a paste of whiting and water being carefully applied and then rubbed ofl- Recipes are given in the last chapter for the treatment of various kinds of metals. Mirrors should be well dusted and the frames lightly wiped with a clean cloth. The best thing to rub up the glass is a pad of old, soft newspaper. If the glass has been neglected and smeared, the best thing is to moisten a rag with methylated spirits, dip this in fine, precipi- tated whiting, and rub the glass well over with this (being careful not to let it touch the frame or to come between the lacquering and the glass, as it is then difficult to remove), after which dry with a duster and polish well with a chamois leather. Fly marks can be removed by dusting them with fine, powdered blue, tied up in a soft piece of muslin, after which rub up the spots with an bid silk handkerchief. For the frames, if of good English gilt, they need only wiping gently with a damp leather, and then drying with an old silk handkerchief—of course, after thoroughly dusting the frame. Many frame makers advise a coating of clear parchment size over the gilding (especially if not of the first quality), as this prevents the dirt darkening and discolouring the gold, and allows of the surface being damped with a clean, wet sponge, this being allowed to dry without wiping. Onion water applied with an old, soft rag is not pnly excellent for reviving gilding, but also keeps off flies. It should be applied two or three times during the spring and summer. To make onion water: Boil one large or two small onions in a pint of water till they are quite tender and all the goodness is extracted, then strain and lea,ve till tepid, when it may be used. One of the great duties of a housemaid is the care of the beds, and concerning these a few words may well be spoken. The amount ofPARLOUR AND HOUSE MAIDS’ WORK. 75 bed linen required has been given in the chapter on the linen cupboard, so need not be referred to here; but the actual bedmaking requires a little notice. The inmate of the room, or his or her attendant presumably opens the window, and throws back the bed clothes before leaving the room; in any case, the moment the house- maid comes in she should open the windows top and bottom, then strip off the clothes one by one, and place them on chairs at the foot of the bed,beating and shaking out the pillows and bolster, setting these to air near the window if possible; the lower clothes should be removed in the same way, the mattress being raised at the two ends so as to form an arch through which the air can pass, and the door should be left open, if possible, to ensure a thorough draught through the room. The next bedroom in use should then be taken and similarly treated, until all the beds are stripped. Beds require at least an hour’s airing before making, or the room will never be free of a close, stuffy smell, and the sleep of the inmate will be disturbed and uncomfortable. The fresher the bed the pleasanter the sleep. When making the bed turn the mattress from side to side and top to bottom on alternate days to make it wear evenly, and be sure the bedclothes are laid straight and well tucked in, free from wrinkles. If a bolster case is not used, the end of the lower sheet must be rolled smoothly round it, then put on the top sheet wrong side out, leaving the most “margin at the top; the blankets should next be placed on, the deeper margin then tucked in at the foot, after which fold the extra length of sheet at the top over the blankets, being careful to have the narrow hem of the sheets and the marking of the blanket, &c., at the foot of the bed; lastly, lay on the quilt evenly and smoothly, covering it wifn the eiderdown or the embroidered “bedspread,” as the case may be. Now fold over the sheet and blanket evenly on the top of the eiderdown, and place the pillows in position hems down- Avards, and, in a double bed, with the fastening sides towards the centre. When pillow and bed shams are used, the upper pillows should be dropped into an embroidered cover and returned to their place, whilst the sheet sham is slipped in under the bed clothes and folded over so as to entirely cover the real sheet, its embroidered or lace edge resting on the eiderdown or bedspread. Directions for making the bed have been given with the airing of the bed, but, properly speaking.7« HOUSEHOLD HINTS. this process is nob carried out till after the washstands, toilet tables, &c., have been properly cleared and attended to, as this gives more time for the airing, beginning at the room which was aired first and going on in rotation to the others, after which return and make the beds in similar rotation, finally dusting and removing any scraps, &c. A good housemaid folds and puts away any clothes, &c., left out by the inmate before beginning to tidy the room. In the evening, when she takes up the dressing water, she will, if the owner of the room has no maid, lay out dressing gown, slippers, &c. Now with regard to the care of beds and bedding. The iron bedstead has advantages over the older wooden one; but both can be kept in perfect order with a minimum amount of attention, provided this be given regularly. The former harbour dust more than one realises, as can easily be seen by lifting the laths where they cross one another; these little nests, and every corner, should be dusted with a brush at intervals, and not unless this precaution be taken can any one boast of cleanliness. The main enemies are dust, damp, and moth. Brushing must be extended to the mattresses, which harbour dirt all along the edges, and especially wherever a button is fixed. A very good plan is to tie a thick piece of hessian all over the laths, under the mattress. This serves a double purpose; it helps to keep the bedding clean and saves much wear, as the sharp irons out into the mattress and often cause ironmould. A loose holland cover over the mattress, made to button tidily at one end, also goes a long way towards keeping it clean. This can be washed and changed as often as need be without much trouble or expense. Wherever there is any danger of moth, Keating’s powder can be freely u.sed between the ticking and the cover. Send the mattresses to a good upholsterer if any signs of moth appear, as the horsehair will need thorough baking, and the tick will want washing, before the evil can be cured. Again, in cases of infection the articles should be sent to some well-known public disinfecting establishment, where everything is baked in large ovens arranged expressly. If the mattress, pillow, or feather bed only need freshening, and space is not too limited, the operation can be performed at home, thus: Unpick the ticking, remove the flock or feathers, pick them all over thoroughly, and expose them for twenty-four hoursPARLOUR AND HOUSE MAIDS’ WORK. 77 at least to the sun and the air. If this process should be necessary during the cold weather, light a large fire in a dry, airy room (which fire, by the way, must be carefully screened, as the least draught might cause the feathers to fly about, and accidents happen only too quickly). The contents of pillows can easily be baked in a large oven, but where feather beds are concerned this would be an endless matter. It is very important to air all the bedding thoroughly —that is to say, to turn it out bodily into the open air. If this is impossible, everything can be put on chairs before the open window, if possible on a sunny day; this apparently trifling point is too much overlooked, and cannot be too highly recommended. If this process is regularly carried out at settled intervals, the care of bedding will not really imply more trouble than the dusting of a room, with an occasional “turn out.” Blankets are a difiSculty to many people, mostly because they cannot make up their minds as to how often they should be washed, nor how they should be treated. In many houses they are only washed once a year, at the inevitable spring cleaning; but somehow that does seem rather too rare a proceeding. On the other hand, it is really not necessary to have them washed more than twice a year; but they must have proper care in the interval in the shape of airing, shaking, &c. If washed at home, they can be got up to perfection, whereas by sending them out there is always the risk of shrinking. A washing machine is very good for this purpose, especially as they should never be rubbed by the hand; in fact, when there is no machine, and housewives care for the well-being of their goods, they are always treated with what is commonly called a “dolly.” This is a well-known contrivance, by means of which the blanket is well shaken and worked about in the tub, so that it is thoroughly cleansed without being rubbed with the hands. The water should only be luke-warm, and no soda must be used—a little washing powder or Sunlight soap well lathered in the water is all that will be required. Wring the blankets very dry through a wringer, shake them out, and wash again in the same way, wringing each time until they are quite clean. Do not rinse them, but pull them into shape and hang them out in the sun, which is a great help in preserving a good colour. New blankets especi- ally should be treated exactly according to these instruc-HOUSEHOLD HINTS. 78 tious; when the material is older there is no longer so much danger of shrinking. Obviously, all curtains, hangings, valances, &c., harbour dust. Of course, wash- ing materials aro more to be advocated than serges, woollen stuffs, &o., that will not wash for the dust that clings to such materials must inevitably take away from the perfect wholesoineness of the room. The neatest way to put up valances is to run them on to a narrow wooden lath fixed, or merely laid, on the bedstead itself under the paillasse. The old-fashioned heavy counter- panes, which seemed essential to every householder’s happiness, are going out of use, chiefly perhaps because they ai'o so difficult to keep clean, troublesome to wash at home (unless there is a great deal of space), and very soon ruined by the average laundress; the thinner honey- comb pattern is preferable, or a pretty bedspread to match the appointments of the room always looks dainty and pleasant. Finally, one of the best preparations for cleaning the ironwork of bedsteads is benzine collas; it never cor- rodes, and the smell evaporates very quickly; it is also the best preventive against insects, which sometimes appear' in the most unexpected manner. If any such unwelcouie visitors make their appearance in wooden frames, they are more difficult to treat, on account of the chinks in the wood; nitric acid, however, soon disposes, of the most obstinate cases. It is, perhaps, almost superfluous to give these remedies, and it is to be hoped that they may rarely have to bo called into requisition. Benzine collas is a splendid cleansing substance for iron, which is the principal thing to bear in mind. When, however, this is considered too expensive, pure paraffin is a most efficient substitute, though it requires a good deal of airing to obviate its unpleasant smell, which is the great objection to itsi general use. As no one can work properly without a sufficient supply of necessary tools, it may be well to give a list of the articles required by the two maids treated of respectively. Parlourmaid-—One washing-up tub, one tub (or pre- ferably a papier-mache or “pulp” ware bowl) for glass, &o., one lamp scissors, one lamp leather, one lamp brush or rubber, two plate brushes, two or three leathers, one Selvyt, one plate basket, two knife trays (one for clean and one for dirty), one sink basket and brush, one scrub- bing brush, one carpet broom, one dustpan and doublePARLOUR AND HOUSE MAIDS’ WORK. 79 brush, OU0 pail, on© housemaid’s box (if she has any grates) with blacklead and polishing brushes, one leather for window cleaning, one hand bowl, one roller and towel, and, if possible, a lamp filler. The list of cloths, Ac., was given in the chapter on the linen cupboard. She will also require some spare basins, a jug for knife cleaning, and either a knife machine or a kiufe board. Hmisemaid.—One sweeping broom, one hard carpet broom, one scrubbing brush, one dustpan and double brush, one housemaid’s box with blacklead and polishing brushes, one leather for brass ware, one leather for window cleaning, one Selvyt cloth, on© zinc pail, one enamelled or china toilet pail, one clothes horse, two or more hot water cans, one or more cold water cans, one cinder sifter, one large piece of sacking to cover the carpet when doing the grate. The cloths, cfec., she will require have been given in the cliapter on the linen cupboard.CHAP TEE VI. THE OFFICES. It may as well be stated, to start with, that on the relations existing between the house mistress and her cook will depend, in great measure, the comfort of the entire household. Now, unless the condition and com- fort of the kitchen and its appurtenances (in house agent’s parlance, the “offices”) are well seen to, the necessary entente cordiale is by no means likely to be niaintained. Roughly speaking, the offices consist of kitchen, scullery, larder, pantry (a place, however, sacred tO' the parlourmaid), and, if any way possible, a room to be used as a servants’ hall, or parlour, where the servants can sit, eat. and rest. Of course, in small houses, this last is an unattainable luxury, but where it is in any way possible, it is well worth contrivance, as it adds so much to the domestic comfort, and, con- sequently, the contentment of the household. This parlour should be plainly, but conveniently, fur- nished. and if the linen, extra glass, and store cupboards be installed there, perhaps so much the better. Be- sides the indispensable table and chairs, there should be a couple of armchairs (the ordinary Windsor armchair, with a cushion, is most comfortablOj and so is the ordi- nary hammock chair), and if there is anywhere an old- fashioned sofa still whole, though no longer “drawing- room company, ” as the children say, this will be an immense boon, especially where there are young maids, who are as disposed to outgrow their strength as any other girls. A few shelves for books, writing desk, &c., is another comfort which costs but little, though adding enormously to the home-like feeling, without which it is well nigh impossible to keep (even supposing one gets)THE OFFICES. 81 steady, respectable servants. I know from experience that it is not easy to tempt servants away from such a “ family, ” even for the chance of higher wages. If, how- ever, this parlour is impossible, the kitchen must be arranged accordingly. The kitchen should be light, bright, and, above all, well ventilated. The exigencies of town life may render the first of these conditions difficult to obtain, but the other two are sine qua non! If, as only too frequently happens, the kitchen looks out on an area (with probably an interesting vista of the dusthole and coal cellar), the walls of this area must be kept regularly limewashed, as this is not only sanitary, but increases the light in the room. If the kitchen must, perforce, also be the ser- vants’ hall, have the windows nca.tly curtained with muslin, allowing a sufficient supply of this to' ensure the cleanliness of these curtains; and encourage the servants to keep trim window-boxes. Where, however, the kitcljen can bo kept entirely for its proper use, keep to strictly utilitarian furniture. A large, steady table, another smaller one for dishing up (both should be of deal and spotlessly kept), a good dresser, with two drawers, two cupboards, one for kitchen stores, the other for spare plates and dishes, moulds, &c., a good clock, a couple of boards nailed to the wall to hold the dish covers, a modern, well-chosen range, and, if it may_bo, a small gas stove. Apropos of this, it is well to establish that never (save at times of unusual stress and hurry) should the range and the gas stove be kept in use at the same time. If this rule is not rigidly enforced, there will be trouble over the coal, or the gas bill, and possibly both, at the end of the quarter. Care must be taken re the range, for unless in good working order, ana of a good make, both labour and expense will be nearly doubled, lliero are so many good ranges going, it is almost invidious to specify any particular make, though the experience of many years leads me, personally, to favour the Eagle range, both for its use and its economy. It is so arranged that a very small fire (when no cooking is about) will keep the boiler hot, and the fire can be incre^ed or decreased in a minute without trouble or exertion. Whilst on the subject of the range, let me remark that the strictest cleanliness is indispensable in this matter. The range must be thoroughly cleaned out daily, all cinders, ashes, &c., being cleared from the range with a cinder shovel, sweeping out the flues with GHOUSEHOLD HIN-r'S. 82 the proper flue bi'ush as far as you can reacli con-^ veniently. If this is done regularly, the range will only need a thorough cleaning once in ten days or a fortniglit, according to the amount of use it gets. The proper way to clean it is this: Having removed all the ash, <fcc., from the ashpan, firebox, ana hearth draw out ail the dampers, lift out the highest soot-door of the hues, and sweep through this opening with the hue brush as high as you can possibly reach; next sweep each hue in turn, only uncovering each as you sweep it. to save soot from flying about. Take away the soot from the lowest door with a shovel, and also brush all soot carefully away from the top of the stove, of the oven, of the boiler, and the back of the fireplace, sweeping out every ledge and corner in which it can have lodged, as well as the oven itself. If very greasy (which it should not be if properly kept), wash it either with hot soda and w’ater, or rub it well all over with a cloth dipped in turpentine before blackleading it. Wash the tiles with hot soapsuds, drying them well, and whitening the hearth as you would stone steps. Some cooks prefer cleaning their stoves after the cooking is over, in which case they may be recommended to try “ enameline, ” as, unlike blacklead (which must be put on when the stove is cool), this can be applied quite well to hot metal. The oven should be dusted out daily, being well rubbed over at the weekly or fortnightly clean with a cloth wrung out of hot water. The oven shelves also should be at this time well washed in strong, hot soda and water to remove all grease. N.B.—All grease dropped on the hot-plate or the gas stove should be at once washed off with a cloth wrung out of hot water. It is to neglect of this rule that we owe a good half of the “odious kitchen savours” which are put down to the range, but are, in truth, due to the cook’s carelessness and untidi- ness. Another cause of smell is the cooking of vege- tables, such as cabbage, cauliflowers &c. A simple remedy for this, given me by a well-known chef, is to put a piece of charcoal, or a piece of deeply-toasted bread, in the water with the vegetable. (If the water in which these vegetables are cooked is not wanted for a foundation for vegetable puree, for which, by the way, it is very useful—if soda has not been put with it—it should never be poured down the sink, but straight into the drain, or, failing this, on to the garden mould.) Vinegar, if sprinkled on the stove, will alsoTHE OFEICES. 83 destroy the sickening smell of burnt milk, sauce, &c., and a cup of it stood on the stove removes the odour of cooking onions. But the two points for keeping the atmosphere of a kitchen sweet are cleanliness and thorough ventilation. A cook should always remember tliat smell ascends, therefore, she should keep her kitchen door closed whilst airing her kitchen, or the cold air coming in through the window. &c., will drive all the kitchen odours right through tue house. (It is for this reason so many people advocate the kitchen being on the top floor of the house.) By the way, if fat catches in the pan, as sometimes happens, put some raw potato or sliced onion in the fat, and sprinkle the stove with vinegar; this neutralises the smell. To clean a gas stove, remove the bars from the top, wash them in very hot soda and water, then blacklead both them and the gas rings. Cleanse and brush up all the brass and steel work, burnishing the latter, and well cleanse the oven shelves with hot water and soda, rubbing up the enamelled pai'ts with a flannel dipped in salt. It is a wise plan for the mistress, if she does not herself know how the range and gas stove should be cleansed, to get a workman in from the maker’s, and get him to teach the cook thoroughly how they are to be cleaned. Remember that one frequent cause for the coldness of the bath water, such a constant source of friction, is the sooty condition of the flues. So when trouble of this kind arises, see for yourself that the damper has been really pulled out properly, and, next, that tne flues are perfectly clean, and then (but not till then) send for the workman to investigate the trouble, which, in that case, may be due to the choking of the pipes from the hardness, or chalkiness, of the water, and would be a source of actual danger. Another point is the boiler, and this needs attention, for any acident to this mostly moans a bad accident, or, at the least, a great deal of inconvenience. It should be cleaned out at regular intervals, the supply of water should be attended to, and, if by any cause this is cut off, the kitchen fire must be at once put out until the trouble has been rectified. Failing this, there will pretty certainly be an explosion, as the boiler will burst. The Eagle Range Company have brought out a small vent, which can be affixed to the boiler, which, on the least strain from extra steam, flies out, relieves the G 2HOUSEHOLD HINTS. boiler, and saves explosion. This should be on every boiler. It cannot be too strongly enforced on cook and kitchenmaid alike that the only method of keeping a kitchen in good order is to chan as you go along! If, when done with, the pots are at once half-filled witn hot water and a morsel of soda, they can stand till it is con- venient to rinse and clean them, and will be little or no trouble to clean then. (If milk, porridge, sweets, &c., have been cooked in the pan, fill it with cold water, to throw them off the boil, as these continue to cook after being lifted off the fire, so that the addition of hot water would make them burn. If, by any accident, anything should have burnt in the pan, fill the latter with cold water and a knob of soda, and let it boil (for an hour at the side of the stove; then scrub it out with a saucepan brush). A list of kitchen requisites will be given at the end of this chapter, so no more need be said here on the subject, save that it is very false economy to stint a cook, especially a singlohaiided one, ill the matter of tools. She is but human, and. like the rest of us, finds it far easier to serve a person who con- siders her and tries to save her all she can, than one whom she believes (however wrongl.y) to be trying to screw the uttermost farthing out of her. I speak from the experience of years, and can honestly say that, to put it on the lowest grounds, kindness and consideration pay, whilst the difference between a friendly, willing servant, and a grudging, suspicious one, hardly needs remarking. On this point a word or two may be said respecting the ordering of dinner, &c. A mistress should always have a stated time for ordering dinner, giving out stores, &c., by which time the cook and her kitchen should alike be tidy. Where the lady is her own house- keeper, the cook should be prepared with a list of any articles needed for the day’s use, and should have any remains of the previous day’s food tidily displayed, to enable the mistress to use them up in the day’s menu. It is always well to be a day or so in advance with your orders, as this saves any risk of disappointment with the tradesman. Where, however, as advised in another chapter, th'e fishmonger and greengrocer send in their daily price lists, a little margin must be allowed to finable the housekeeper to avail herself of the chances of the day’s supply. Attention to this point has a85 THE OFFICES. marked effect in reducing both these bills. A con- venient plan, and one which, moreover, saves mistress and maid alike from dropping into a culinary groove, is to have a menu book, and to write down each day the day’s meals, both in dining-room and kitchen, and, of course, nursery. Now, in ordering meals, especially in the dining-room, a mistress should always study hor intended menu carefully, not only to secure dainty and well-served dishes in their correct sequence (which, of course, require duo consideration), but also how, as far as possible to save her cook. The time each dish will require, roughly, to prepare, as well as how they are to be cooked; so many roasted, stewed, or baked; and then calculate your pots and pans and oven accommo- dation accordingly. A vei’y dainty little dinner, good enough for anyone, can be easily prepared, single-handed, by a cook, who would (and justly) complain of the trouble involved by an apparently much plainer one. For instance, boiled turbot and hollandaise sauce; roast leg of mutton; duckling and green peas; with baked apricot tart, will probably involve more grumbling than sole au gratin; casserole of chicken, broiled fillets of beef a la russe ; sardines a la diable; and an ice; because so much of the latter dinner can be prepared beforehand, and the cooking of the rest involves no interference in the use of the cooking media. The next place to consider is the scullery. This, like the kitchen, should be light and well ventilated, and, like it, should have a tiled or flagged floor, or, failing this, be covered in the same way with a strong, self- coloured linoleum, which should be wiped over daily with a damp cloth, well dried, and rubbed up witli a little furniture polish, or turpentine and beeswax, as treated thus it is easy to clean and keep in goou con- dition. There should bo a good sink, preferably of Doulton ware, as this is easiest to clean and keep in good order. If it is a leaden one, to clean it, mix to- gether a pennyworth each of fuller’s earth, soft soap, and pearlash, thoroughly, with a quart of boiling water, and bottle it. Wash down daily with a flannel dinned in this, then rinse thoroughly. For ordinary sinks, a thorough scrubbing with hot water and soda, then rins- ing, first with hot water and then with cold water, answers admii-ably. Weekly, loz. of permanganate of potash dissolved in three pints of boiling water should bo poured down everjr sink, bqth pipe, lavatory pipe, &c.,8G HOCJSEHOLD HINTS. both inside and outside the house, the drains being flushed two or three times a week besides, with hot soda water; this treatment should be daily for sinks, the first flushing being supplemented by a second of boiling water, to dissolve the soap which will form inside the pipe from a combination of the soda and grease, which, if left in, would speedily choke the pipe. It is well to observe here that the waste pipo from a sink should go through the scullei-y wall, opening into the air about 12 inches above the gully trap leading into the drain, as this prevents any chance of the smell blowing back into the house. Rut, remember, after throwing any dirty or evil-smelling water down the sink, to let the tap run for two or three minutes, full strength, toi flush it thoroughly. Besides the sink, there should be a strong, though small, table, two or three shelves, to hold crocks, extra pots, &c., and a pot stand. This last, though it should be indis- pensable in every well-found house, is not nearly so common as it should be. It consists of an iron frame- work, graduated to fit the various pots, which can be left reversed on it. exposed to the air. the lids being arranged on a shelf above. This keeps the pots in ex- cellent condition, and saves any chance of their acquiring a musty flavour, which they will do if left standing covered up. One more article most essential in a scullei'y is a galvanised nail, for the accommodation of any refuse, &c., and this pail should certainly have a lid to prevent damn, which would cause an unpleasant smell. Whilst on the subject of refuse, it is well to observe that no animal or vegetable refuse should, under any circum- stances, be placed in the ashbin or the dusthole. whether the former be the two-handled, round, galvanised bins on wheels recommended by the sanitary authorities, or the ordinary dusthole fixture, in some wall near the kitchen. The only things allowed into either of these should be the sifted ashes, hopelessly-broken glass or crockery, old tins, and such like, but. under nn circum- stances, any liquid of any kind. Tea leaves should be rinsed, used for sweeping carpets, then dried and burnt. All bones which have been used for soup, and whose goodness has been presumably extracted, should be washed .dried, and then may be thrown into the dust- bin. Vegetable strippings are the most difficult to dis- pose of, as most cooks forget to dry them, and tben tlu'ow them on to the fire in a mass at some copvepiept87 THE OFFICES. season, when they produce a horrible smell and a most disgusting mess in the range, the fire not being suf- ficiently strong to consume them entirely. The proper way is to di-y small quantities of vegetable matter at a time under the fire, ^ter which they can be burnt with impunity. (Few cooks, by the way. know how good dried potato parings and dried orange skins are for keep- ing in and reviving a fire.) A very simple way of testing the condition of drains is to pour down the pipe of the highest sink, or w.c., either two tablespoonfuls of the Siinitas soluble oil. or loz. of oil of peppermint dissolved in three gallons of hot water and if there be a leak or defect anywhere the smell will be apparent at the faulty place, and should be at once attended to. Remember that diphtheria, scarlet fever, typhoid, &c., are all, pri- marily, drain poisons. One of the great occupations of a scullerymaid is dish and pot washing. Now, though this is. admittedly, not a pleasant occupation, it need not be the dirty, me.ssy work it so frequently is. A sink basket, either plain or enamelled, should always fit over the whole of the sink opening. Next, see that you have a eood supplv of boiling water and soda, scrape all the refuse, Ac., off the plates, and put them neatly together; wa.sh such spoons, forks, and knives as have to be washed in the scullerv. first, and set them aside for cleaning ; next take the china, washing the cleanest things first in plenty of hot soapsuds and water, then rinse each separately and thoroughly in verv hot, clean water, placing each article, when rinsed, in the plate-rack till perfectly dry; if you have no plate-rack, drain thoroughly, and rub up with a dry, clean towel. If cold water and wet cloths are used, the china will never polish properl.y. Greasv plates should be wined carefuPv with paper (this being than burnt) before they are washed. Stewpans and saucepans should be carefully washed in plentv of boiling water, in which you have dissolved some soda, washing the saucepans thoroughlv inside and out. Keep a saucer wb-h a small quantity of silver sand beside the sink, and, after washing the saucepans, soap a dishcloth, dip it in the sand, and thoroughly scour the inside of the saucepan, to remove all stains; then rinse well in plenty of warm water, and dry perfectly before putting them away. Frying-pans may be cleaned in exactly the saine way, but an omelet-pan should never he topched with water. After use, the fat should be atHOUSEHOLD HINTS. 88 once poured out of it, and the pan thoroughly rubbed with paper till the paper comes away quite clean. If, by any accident, it should have been burnt or stained, put it on the fire with a little fat in it, pouring this off when dissolved, then rub it well inside with a piece of paper dipped in salt, after which nib it well with iresli pieces of paper till these come away quite clean. The best way of cleaning a stained enamel saucepan is, after well washing it, to scour it with a flannel dipped in salt and crushed eggshells. Remember that, after use. all tea, dish, or glass cloths should be scalded out, well rinsed, and dried on a small clothes-horse, in the open air if possible, or, failing this, before a good fire. As soon as they are dry, which they will be very soon, fold them up and put them away in a drawer till wanted. This takes but two or three minutes, and ensures a good supply of clean, dry cloths. Kitchen One set of scales. One large fish kettle. One smaller fish kettle and fryer. One or two gridirons. One iron boiler for hams, &c. Four to six seamless steel or planished tin stewpans. Two small tin saucepans for milk. &c. One frying basket to fit large stewpan. Three large iron saucepans, and one steamer to fit. One largo frying pan. One small frying pan. One omelet frying pan. One preserving pan. One colander. One grav.v strainer. One egg slice. One fish slice. One toaster. One large double roasting tin to fit oven. Two baking or Yorkshire pud- ding tins. Two iron spoons. One cook’s knife. One set of cutters. One set of skewers. Two larding needles. One steel. Requisites. One mincer. One bread grater. One spice box and nutmeg- grater. One hand bowl. Two zinc pails. One zinc bath or pan. One fender and fire irons. One coal scuttle. Two candlesticks. One coffee pot. One large iron kettle. One small tin kettle. One flour dredger. One pepper dredger. One sugar dredger. One funnel. One mustard-pot. IVfoulds various to taste. One pastry board and roller (a marble s'ab if possible!. Cne chopping-board and chop- per. One meat saw. One tnb. One small towel horse. One set pudding dishes. One set pic dishes. Two to four china basins, lipped. Two to four china Iwsins, plain. One bread nan. One flour tub. One knifeboard.THE OFFICES. 89 One good clock. One set- of jugs. One salt box. One pestle and mortar, marble or wedgewood. One dinner set, kitchen. One tea set, kitchen. One teapot. One or two good lamps, if no gas. One soft broom. One hard broom. One yard broom. One dust pan and brush. One sink brush and sink tidy. One set blacklead brushes. One cinder sifter. One set boot brushes. One pot stand. One plate rack. One kitchen table. One dishing-up table. Chairs as required. One refrigerator. One set of dish covers. Two trays. Of course, this is not a full li.st, and moulds have been purposely omitted. The ordinai'y idea seems to be twelve pattypans, one or two cake tins, one hot pot tin, one jelly and one Charlotte mould. To these may be added border, cutlet, dariole, and jelly moulds, ad lib., as your cook’s wants grow. (A fresh set of moulds, or some new and labour-saving device, is always a welcome and encouraging surprise to a willing cook, who fully appreciates any mark of attention on her mistress’s part.) A Dover egg-beater, fruit-stoners, apple-corers, potato- slicers, paring-knives, a tamis-pressoir (for sauces, purees, &c.), a bain-marie, pastry-racks, vegetable-cutters, a. coffee-mill, fireproof china dishes, such as coenties, souffio dishes, casseroles. &c., are all useful addenda, and mav be added gradually to suit your cook’s convenience and your own purse. A sink-tidy and sink-brush should bo a sine qua non in every sink.CHAPTEP. VII. VAEIOPS EECIPES, &c. Baths, to Clean.—Make a good lather of hot soap and water in the hath, then scour the sides well (being careful to rub only one way) with the finest emery paper. Directly the dirt is removed and the paint shows, stop rubbing the place, or you will destroy the japanning, rinse well, and dry carefully with an old, soft cloth. Bottles, to Clean.—Pour into any stained decanter, carafe, «fec., one part salt to two parts vinegar, with a little soda; shake this well round the glass till the latter is clean, then rinse it well in plenty of cold water, and turn it upside down to drain. This may he used over and over again. Brushes, to Wash.—Have ready two basins half-filled with water, acidulated with lemon juice, or white vinegar, one boiling, in which you have dissolved a small piece of soda, the other as cold as you can get it. (If the brushes are very greasy, add a spoonful of Scrubb’s Cloudy Ammonia to the boiling water.) Now immerse the bristles, and shake them in the soda and water till clean; then at once repeat the process in the cold water, after which dry, in the open if possible. Mind the backs, whatever they are. are never wetted. Dry flour or fuller’s earth rubbed thickly into the bristles, and then .thoroughly brushed out, will dry- clean the brushes well. A very little painters’ polish applied thinly and well leathered off is a great improve- ment to wooden-hacked brushes. Butter, to Preserve.—Well wash the butter, which should be quite fresh, then work thoroughly into it 2oz. of salt, and rather more than half a teaspoonful of cane loaf sugar, to e?ich pound of buftep j be careful to get tji?91 VARIOUS RECIPES, &c. salt well through it all. When the butter is cool, press it into earthenware crocks, with lids to them (those holding about 71b. are most convenient), being careful to ram the butter well home, and to leave no space.s for the air to get in down the sides, which would infallibly turn it. Now cover with a layer of the salt and_sugar as used in preserving the butter, then with a muslin wning out of well-salted water, and, lastly, the lid fixed on tightl.y: this muslin should be well wetted with salt and water, and replaced each time butter is taken (iut of the crock. This butter needs washing before use if the salt taste is objected to. Abroad, butter is_ stored in the following way for cooking purposes, and, if care- fully done, will keep in good condition for a long time. Buy, say, 301b. of good fresh butter, and put it in a kettle or pan with about four cloves, two bayleaves, and two onions, and leave it over a slack fire to simmer very gently for at least three hours, being careful it never boils. Do not skim it. Now draw it off the fire, and let it stand for an hour, after which skim off the top froth, &c., very carefully, and pour the butter slowly into large stoneware .jars or crocks, without letting ,'uiy of the sediment, which will be found at the bottom of the kettle, get into the crocks. Then place theSe jars in a cold, dark cellar, and next day, when the contents are firm, cover them down tightly with thick white paper, and place a slate or plate over the top. Keep these in the cool cellar, only taking out as much as may be wanted for the day’s cooking, for light and too much air will cau.se it to deteriorate. This is used for the most delicate cookery abroad. A simpler method is to place the butter in a large crock or pan, and stand this in a larger pan. containing boiling water, and let it all cook over a moderate fire for two hours. Remove the scum, and pour the melted butter into stone jars, as before, keeping back anv sediment. Tie the jars down, when the butter is cold and hard, with paper, as above, or with softened bladders. The rest of the butter, sediment. &c., may be mixed with a little more fresh butter, and allowed to cook very slowly and gently till it assumes a brownish tint, when it may be strained through a sieve into stone jars, and covered down as before. This is excellent for household purposes, though not. of course, for delicate white sauces. Butter melted and stored as above will keep good for a year. To keep butter fresh from day to day, when the butter bus just been made,92 HOUSEHOLD HINTS. place it in an earthenware basin, and cover it thoroughly, 1 or 2 inches deep, with fresh filtered water, and place the basin in a cold place, like'a cellar. &c. Next morn- ing pour off the water, and cut the butter up into pieces the size of a small apple: now well wash your hands in cold water, and well work each piece of butter between your hands, pressing it well every way to get out any butter-milk that may be still in it. Then make up each piece into the shape of an egg, and drop each into an earthenware pan full of cold water, covering it well down, and storing it in the coolest place you can tin I. The water must be changed every dav the butter being worked up, as above, once or twice a week. The Nor- mandy butter merchants preserve butter this way all through the winter, selling it as fresh during the dead season. Butter, to Test.—Put a piece of butter the size of a chestnut into an iron spoon, and hold it over a spirit stove, stirring it well with a wooden splinter as it melts and begins to boil; butter boils with little noise, but a groat deal of foam; margarine and “renovated” butter has little or no foam, and sputters and boils very noisilv like grease and water. This is the recognised test of the U.S.A. Department of Agriculture. Chamois Leather, to Wash.—Wash in plenty of warm, but not hot, soapsuds, then rinse in plenty of clean, w'arm water, till every atom of soap is gone; then gently wring (or run it through a wringer) till as dry as you can get it, and hang out to dry at once. Rub it well, and pull it out constantly whilst drying to keep it in shape and prevent its hardening. Then, if necessary, iron with a cool iron at the last. If properly treated, this leather w'ill be as soft as new. , . . t Eggs, to Preserve.—Make a solution of one part water- glass (silicate of soda) to sixteen parts of water, pacK the eggs, which must be perfectly fresh and uninjured in a crock, and pour this solution over them, covering them well with the solution. Preserved in this way. eggs keep well for months, and can be used for any purpose for which fresh eggs are required. It is .'=aid that, before plain boiling, eggs thus prepared should be pricked at one end first. Put 31b. of quicklime, ^Ib. of salt. and loz. of cream of tartar into a jar, and pour on to it one and a half gallons of absolutely boiling 'water; when tliis is cold lay in the eggs care-VARIOTTS RECIPES, &c. 93 fully (they should be uew laid), beiug careful to see that they are well covered. Of course, the solution car be increased as required, only keeping to these proportions. to Test.—Make a strong brine by dissolving 2oz. kitchen salt to the pint of water; immerse the eggs in this. An egg laid the same day at once sinks to the bottom; a day-old egg sinks also, but not quite to the bottom; a three-days' egg will float just under the sur- face ; an older egg floats just on or above the surface: whilst the older the egg the higher it rises in the irater. JEiderdoicns, to Wash.—These may be washed precisely like flannel or blankets. Use just tepid water, with ammonia in it, and use salted or ammoniated water for the last rinsing to bring up the colour. They must be dried in the open, in a good wind, shaking and rubbing them frequently to prevent the down clotting and felt- ing. The secret of cleansing these successfully lies in the drying. Footwarmcrs.—The following mixture, if placed in a “warmer," then immersed in boiling or very hot water till the mixture is fluid, will keep hot for ten to twelve hours, and may be used over and over again. The mix- ture is lib. of acetate of soda and 101b. of hyposulphite of soda. Use enough to fill the warmer. Frozen Meat, to Thaw.—Place the meat in a warm room over night, or lay it for a few hours in cold water, the latter plan being the best. The ice which forms on the surface as it thaws is easily removed. If cooked be- fore it is entirely thawed it will be tough. Meat once frozen should not be allowed to thaw until just before cooking. In towns, good butchers will always thaw foreign meat for their regular customers, but it must then be used at once, as it does not keep in good con- dition long after thawing. Filters. &c.—These need regular and thorough cleansing sit stated intervals, or they are almost worse than no filter at all. Charcoal filters especially need attention. When buying a filter, always insist on directions for its management, and see that these are attended to metho- dically. A rou"h and ready, but effective, filter may be made thus: Fill the hole in the bottom of a well-washed ordinary flower-pot with a perfectly clean sponge, and three parts fill the pot with alternate layers of sand, charcoal, and small, well-washed pebbles; then place it on a suitable utensil for the water to filter into.HOUSEHOLD HlH^S. 04 It is well to know, should the bath water be muddy and unfit for use, that it can be cleared by adding to itafiill spoonful of powdered alum, and letting it stand for a few hours, when the dirt. &c., will have sunk to the bottom, and the clear water can be poured off for use. A teaspoonful of alum will clear four gallons of water. A good te.st of the condition of a filter is to add a table- spoonful of “ Condy’s fluid” to about a gallon of water, and pour this into tire filter. If, after standing some time, when you draw off the water it is still tinged with pink as it was at first, the filter is useless; but if the water comes out with a yellow or brownish tinge, the filter is actually harmful in itself, and has added organic im- purity to the water. Nor is this so rare as housewives fancy! If the filter, however, is acting properly, the water will come out clear, colourless, and tasteless. Frozen Pipes, Poilers, &o.—The following domestic hints are by R. W. Boyd, author of “ The ABC of a Healthy House” (105, New Bond-street), on “How to Keep out Frost and its Troublesome Consequences'” : 1. Object.—The object of the following hints is: First, to provide against great cold; and, second, to deal wisely with the water service supposing it to be affected by frost, and thus to minimise the trouble and expense of burst pipes, and the inconvenience of having no water in the house • at such times the want of a proper water supply adds enormously to risk from fire. '2. Main Fipcs.—^The water mains leading to the house should be 3 feet under ground—tliis is usually the busi- ness of the water company. 3. Branch Jkfam.—Now comes a weak point, viz., the supply pipe, which, if in town, has sometimes to cross an area. This pipe should be affixed to a wall, and should be boxed up with a large bulk of non-conducting waterproof material at each point accessible to cold; this applies to cisterns as well as to pipes. 4. Indoor Mains.—^When inside the house the pipes should he “run” in warm positions, and must be either emptied (a very crude plan) or kept above freezing point. 5. Empty Pipes.—If emptied, care must be taken that every drop of water is really nm out. 6. Pipes Charged.—The proper way, however, is to keep the house warm enough to exclude frost, and this is far more economical than letting in the frost, with all its subsequent mischief, heavy expense for repairs and redecoration, &c.VAillOUS HECIPES, SiC. 95 7. Empty House.—An empty house is the one likely to suffer from frost. 8. Fosition of Cisterns.—Water-supply pipes and cisterns should be indoors, but if outsiue they will need special means to keep out frost. A cistern outside can be kept above freezing point by heat communicated from a gas-jet placed inside the house. In w.c.’s, and where pipes and cisterns are necessarily exposed to cold, it is well to have a jet of gas or a lamp kept burning during frost. y. Tap Left Open.—As running water seldom freezes, it is sometimes useful to leave a tap over a sink partially open, so that water continues to flow. 10. Burst Pipes.—Water in freezing expands, and often breaks the pipe; but the injury is only evident when the thaw comes and the water ^ain runs. Any pipe or cistern suspected of containing ice must_ bo watched, if possible, by an expert, else when a thaw comes a flood may follow, causing gi’eat trouble. This applies with special force to pipes at the top of the house. 11. Stop-cock.—If a leak occurs anywhere it is well at once to shut the main stop-cock, so as to prevent a flood. The position of this main cock must always be borne in mind, as also the fact that boilers in use will not be safe for long without a supply of water. 12. Boilers.—During every hard frost kitchen and other boilers burst and cause fatal accidents and other trouble, therefore these should be looked to as a first consideration. Boilers should be kept at work during hard frost, because by so doing you prevent the forma- tion of ice ill the pipes connected with them, while you also keep the cold out of adjacent parts of the house. 13. Test for Boilers.-—If water runs freely at the " hot” taps all is well, but if these taps fail to run. the only safe way is to put out the fire and call in a competent man to inspect. 14:. Hot^ater Pipes.—Never allow hot-water pipes or the pipes that feed them to be where they can “freeze.” If once the frost gets hold of the hot-water pipes they burst and become useless—perhaps for weeks, and just at the time when they should bo .specially useful. 15. Belay with Itepairs.—During and after a frost it often happens that it is simply impossible to get the pipes repaired for weeks. The household suffers accord- ingly—water has to be fetched from a distance, &c.HOUSEHOLD HINTS. OG Hence the importance of doing all that Is possible to prevent accidents, although sometimes a flexible tube or other alternative may be usefully employed. 16. liesponsibility.—Some one person should Be re- sponsible for the water services, and should know whom to call in on an emergency. Further, every October the pipes should be looked over, so as to be prepared for frost. Furniture Cream.—Shred finely loz. of Castile soap and 2oz. of beeswax into a jar with half a pint of spring water, and set this jar in a moderate oven until its contents are perfectly dissolved. When quite cold mix into it half a pint of spirits of turpentine and two table- spoonfuls of vinegar, stirring these well in. This cream should be stirred occasionally whilst in the oven. Melt together over a slow fire 2oz. of yellow soap and 11b. of beeswax, and when thoroughly dis- solved add a quart of spirits of turpentine very care- fully; then stir in one quart of boiling water very gradu- ally till the mixture is quite cold. Mix together 3oz. of beeswax, loz. of w'hite wax, loz. of curd soap, one pint of turpentine, and when the mixture is thoroughl,y dissolved and cold add a pint of soft, boiled water. Shake the bottle frequently till the wax is all dissolved, and do not use it for forty- eight hours after making. Or, boil one pennyworth of Castile soap in half a pint of soft water till reduced to half, mix one pennyworth each of beeswax and white wax in a quartern of turpentine, and then pour the boiling soap and water on to it. Bottle^ and cork closely; then shake till the mixture turns quite white, when it is ready for use. Put into a bottle half a pint of turpentine, one gill of methylated spirits, half a pint of linseed oil, and one gill of vinegar; shake these all well together till thoroughly blended, and remember always to shake it before use. This is particularly good for dark wood, especially mahogany. A version of this is the old- fashioned mixture of linseed oil and vinegar, which should be kept in a well-corked bottle and thoroughly shaken before use. It is not altogether e^y to give the exact quantities for this mixture, as different woods require rather different proportions. This, however, experience soon teaches. For general purposes equal parts answer well. The best plan is to use this latter9? VARIOUS RECIPES, Ae. frequently, applying the previous recipe at the regular cleaning times, as the methylated spirit and the vinegar remove grease and smears, and the whole preparation is a good remedy against worm-eaten furniture. Japanese, to Polish.—To one pint of linseed oil add one pint of cold, strong tea, the whites of two eggs, and 2oz. of spirits of salt; mix this all well together, and pour into a bottle, shaking this well up each time before use. Make a pad of soft linen, pour a few drops of the mixture on this, and rub the furniture well up with it, finishing the polishing with an old silk hand- kerchief. In Japan fine rice paper is used for this last polishing. Oak, to Glean.—Wash the oak carefully with warm ale, and when dry rub up with soft rags moistened with paraffi)!. Or, if thoroughly clean, any of the pre- viously-given furniture creams will do. Or, mix together one pint of methylated spirits and lOoz. of vinegar, shake these up well, then add 5oz. each of turps, and boiled linseed oil, imbblng it well in, and finally polishing with a clean, dry flannel. Old, to Itevive.—Put into a bottle half a pint each of olive oil, rectified oil of amber, spirits of turps., adding, when these ai'e well mixed ioz. each of lavender and tincture of aikanot root. Keep in a tightly-stop- pered bottlo'; this sliould bo rubbed on woll with cotton rags and then wiped dry; or, put into a pan 2oz. of yellow wax, half a pint of boiled linseed oil, and loz. of boiled alkanet root; stand this in the bain-marie till the wax is all melted and the whole is well coloured with the alkanet, then strain it, and, when cool, add a gill each of spirits of turpentine and vinegar; mix well and use. Apply on a bit of flannel, and rub sharply, always keeping to the way of the ^rain; finish with a clean flannel, and, lastly, with an old silk handkerchief. This polish is specially good for rosewood, though it is also very useful for dark mahogany or wmnut wood. One point with regard to furniture polish can- not be too strongly enforced, and that is that success in this matteii- depends far more on the work than tho furniture polish put on it. You cannot apply the latter too thinly if a good gloss is to bo obtained. The well-known “eggshell gloss” so admired on well-kept Chippondalo and otlier such like furniture, was almost entirely obtained by “elbow grease” regularly and steadily applied. If furniture HHOUSEHOLD HINTS. 98 polish is put ou thickly, it clogs, smears, and inevitably attracts the dust, therefore requiring twice as much labour, if servants but knew it. Worm-eaten.—This is somewhat troublesome to remedy at home, so, unless one is prepared to bestow a good deal of pains on the work, it is better to hand the wood affected over to an experienced cabinet-maker. Jlut, if necessary to be done at home, use a very small oilcan, such as is used for bicycles, typewriters, &c., and fill each individual hole ui> carefully with oil. The worms loathe this grease and, if sufficient is not forced in, to thoroughly flood them, they will work their way out at the other end. When this is done, wipe the surface lightly, and then paint it over with best copal or Spanish varnish, which is colourless, and, if carefiiUy done, is successful; but it requires great pains. —— Buht.—The difficulty about cleansing this is that it is not so much a case of dirt as of the perishing through lapse of time, of the transparent lacquer origin- ally applied to the brasswork, in consequence of which the latter has become oxidised by the air, damp, or, possibly, fog. Only the very tenderest treatment must be used, or some of the inlaid brasswork will get dis- lodged, and this is extremely troublesome to replace. So, if the cabinet or other piece of furnitui-e is really valuable, it is best to send it to an expert. If, how- ever. it must be cleaned at home, wash it very carefully, damping it as little as possible; dry well, and then rub ui) with a little precipitated whiting. Bitch Fine.—This, if dirty, may be well washed with Sunlight soap and water, being careful not to make it wetter than you can help, and diy it as quickly as possible; after this polish well with linseed oil and vinegar. The great secret with pitch pine furni- ture is not to allow it to get dirty, because drastic remedies are very apt to result in destroying the polish. Bruised.—li by any accident polished furni- ture has been dented or bruised, soak the damaged part well with warm water, then double a piece of brown paper five or six times, saturate this also with warm water and lay it over the bruise; then lightly pass a hot iron over it till the moisture has almost evaporated. This may require to be repeated. In very bad cases soak the bruise well with warm water and hold a hot iron directly over, but not absolutely touching, it keep- ing the spot well damped for some minutes without lifting the iron.99 VARIOUS RECIPES, &c. White Stains On.—These rather troublesome marks may be removed by holding a hot plate or hot iron over the spot, not exactly touching it, and then polishing it thoroughly with either the methylated spirit, &c., or the plain oil and vinegai' mixture given above. Liqueur, Lemonade, or Syrup Stained.— These stains, if fresh, may be removed with a little warm water and a soft cloth, afterwards polishing well with any cream to taste. If this fails, use a decoction of lukewarm coffee dregs, rubbing this well in, then drying with a little, old, soft cambric, and finishing off with some polish. Panels, &c., to Bender Fractically Incom- hiistible.—Paint these over two or three times with a strong solution of waterglass or silicate of soda. Old Oak, to Polish.—Boil two quarts of beer with loz. each of beeswax and of coarse, moist sugar until it is perfectly dissolved. Wash the furniture with warm beer till every bit of grease, dust, &c., is removed, being very careful to clean the crevices, &c. Now apply the beer, beeswax, &c., with a large soft brush and let it dry on, then rub the surface well up with a clean, soft cloth, or a leather, till it is bright . Insect and Other Pests.—Of these the best thing to say is: Never have any 1 This, however, is a counsel of perfection, though far more may be done to obviate these nuisances by systematic cleanliness and tidiness than housewives appear to be aware of. In well-kept, cleanly houses, to which air and light are freely admitted to every part, such pests, even if existent, are reduced almost to a negligible quantity. If no crumbs, scraps, or litter ai'6 over left about, for instance, mice, black beetles, ants, &c., are not attracted, in the first place, and if they do come should bo ruthlessly hunted down at once, careful search being instantly made for the origin of the hordes. With ants, earwigs, flies, and such like, there is always a nest somewliere in the neighbourhood, and this once discovered and destroyed, the plague is sensibly diminished, if not altogether cured. With mice and black beetles the great thing is to find out their point of entrance, and, having done so, to plaster up such cracks and crevices as strongly and completely as possible. The following will give some idea of the best way of dealing individually with such troubles. —This plague is undeniably one of the most H 2HOUSEHOLD HINTS. loo troublesome and difficult to combat. All sorts of reme- dies bavo from time to time been advised; about the best ono is to wash all the iilaces where they abound with a fairly strong solution of carbolic acid or strong carbolic soap. Water, in which tobacco or quassia chips have been infused, or in which bitter aloes, corrosive sublimate, or green vitriol has been dissolved: or water acidulated with sulphuric acid, are each and ail strongly I’ecommendcd. Camphor, or a sponge saturated in creosote, is also said to prevent their infesting cup- boards. Other people recommend moi.st sponges dipped in sugar or treacle strewed about in their haunts and cleared out at stated intervals, when they should be washed out in boiling water. Others suggest traps made with jam pots half filled with sw^tened beer; but the only real method of extermination is, as said before, to find out the nests, then place some quicklime on the mouth of this, and wash it in with boiling hot water. Another remedy is to dissolve camphor in spirits of wine, mix it with water, and pour this into the holes, whilst a strong infusion of tobacco is also recommended. Lord Avebury, the well-known authority on insects, is not very sanguine as to any infallible cure for these creatures, but mentions the remedies given above, together with the use of petroleum in the nests, and creosote, as he says that these insects are especially averse to strong scents of any kind. The small red ants, so annoying in many kitchens, can be destroyed in the same way, but the great point is to find out and block up the entrances. Beetles.—These, with their relation the cockroach, invade town houses in such numbers that it is often a matter of difficulty to exterminate them. The first thing is, in the early spring, to examine all the walls and skirting boards of basements, kitchens, &c., and have these carefully plastered up. The damage these crea- tures will do to plaster in the neighbourhood of ranges, &c., is little short of wonderful, as it is in such places they make their nests. Having prevented the entrance of any beetles from the outside, the next thing is to destroy those within your premises. The finst point is strict cleanliness. Crumbs, sci-aps of all kinds, &c., must be most carefully got rid of, and strict tidiness be made the rule. Each night before going to bed powdered borax, Keating’s insecticide, or equal parts of powdered borax and cocoa, should be strewed thickly101 VARIOUS RECIPES, &c. about their liauiite, these being carefully swept up next day, together with the beetles which will be found about, and burnt. Cucumber peel or fresh rhubarb leaves strewed about (smooth side down) are also effectual, and should be lifted each morning, and the insects found beneath them carefully burnt. The advantage of the above destroyers is that, though fatal to the insects, they are harmless to household pets. There are dozens of effectual beetle destroyers on the market, but the great secret with any or all of these really lies in the method of using them. Whatever insecticide you choose should be thickly scattered round the insects' haunts for a week, or until you notice a marked, if not entire, dis- appearance; then stop it for a week, after which again repeat the process twice more, with a week’s interval in between. You will find the second lot much smaller than the first, whilst the third will consist almost entirely of tiny, ju.st hatched young beetles. It is this point that is not always attended to sufficiently; beetles increase rapidly and numerously, so that you may destroy tlie parents and yet leave a large supply of young ones to hatch out and reiiopulate your premises at intervals. A change of imsecticide is to be advised, as, if one kind be persisted in, the creatures appear to become inured to it, and in some cases almost to thrive on it, in the end. This certainly is the ca.se with moth. Fleas, die.—For these the strictest cleanliness is neces- sary. In extreme cases the floors, wainscots, &c., of any room infected should be well scrubbed with water, to which chloride of lime has been added in the pro- portion of one tablespoonful of chloride of lime to a pailful of water, using with it the Chiswick Imperial soft soap. Of course, whoever uses this must not put their hands near it more than they can help. Infuse a good lump of camphor in a wine bottle of water till you obtain a strongly saturated infusion, and with this sprinkle the bedclothes, carpets, &o., which, besides being refresh- ing, is also a deterrent. In hot climates the following may also be used for this: Dissolve ioz. of emnphor in a quai-t of water, add ioz. tincture of myrrh, and shake well before use. Sponge with this, and sprinkle on bed- clothes, Ac. Needless to state, Keating’s insecticide is useful in the same way. Other and more disagreeable bedroom pests require stringent methods. Directly their presence is suspected (and they may be accidentally introduced into the ipost carefully-kept houses), greqtHOUSEHOLD HINTS. 102 attention must bo paid to tlieir extirpation, as they breed very fa.st. All the woodwork of the room should be carefully wa,shed over with paraffin (of cour.se, in daylight) the beds should be thoroughly examined and dusted, the mattresses being well brushed with a stiff brush, especially where buttoned down, while sheets of paraffin or turpcntine-steoped brown paper .should bo laid under tho matlres,ses and fastened under the uphol- stered furniture. If this is carefully carried out, aud the beds, &c., inspected and treated as above every two or three days, the plague can bo got under. It is well to remember that in new and not very well-built houses (such as are, unfortunately, only too common in these days) a great deal of the Norwegian pine used in build- ing is infested in this way, so this point should be carefully investigated. Flies.—This is of all pests one of the most exasperat- ing, though, like evei-y other kind, it yields to careful tidiness and scrupulous cleanliness. Where flies abound, the window-sills and panes should bo sponged with a strong solution of carbolic acid, applying this when the .sun is shining and the flies are most numerous. The insects die or necome unconscious in a vei^ few minutes, when they should be swept up and burnt. Oil of sassafras, or a strong infusion of quassia used in the same wa.y, will put flies to flight, though it does not actually destroy them. Where rooms become infested with flies, a good plan is to heat an old saucepan on the fire, close tho windows of the infested room, place the hot pan in it on a couple of bricks, pour a cupful of carbolic acid into the pan, and run out at once, closing the door carefully. Let this stand for an hour or more before returning to ventilate the room. This may have to be repeated, but is, in the end, an unfailing remedy. Sulphur or sulphur pastilles may be used in the same way with the same effect, but the principal remedy is to clear away all rubbish and refuse heaps or stagnant water, if any such exist anywhere near the house. Flies lay their eggs chiefly along window cords, and in any dark crevicc-s, so examine these and the backs of shut- ters, &c. (where they congregate when young), and wash all these places well, either with paraffin, oil of sassafras, turpentine, or a strong solution of carbolic acid. It is easy to make fly papers in this way: Dissolve over gentle heat 6oz. of powdered resin in 2oz. of raw linseed oil, then, whilst warm, stir in thoroughly 2oz. ofVARIOUS RECIPES, &c. 103 honey. This may be spread on grease-proof paper with a stiff brush, and placed about the kitchen &c.; whilst pieces of thick twine dipped in this sticky substance may be liung from the chandeliers, &c., and will soon become covered with flies. They should then be flung into boiling water, the string cleansed, rodipped in the mixture, and hung up again. Earwigs.—Houses covered with ivy and other creepers are often much troubled with this insect, and for this reason all the vegetation should be cai-efully fastened back from the window frames and sills, and a layer of insecticide spread on the latter thickly every evening; wliilst vitriol or coiTOsive sublimate can be brushed over the window frames in extreme cases, though the worst of this is it injures the paint. Common petro- leum applied in the same way is also useful. Earwigs dislike light and strong smells, therefore the lighter the house the less chance of earwigs; whilst pieces of sponge filled with creosote or a strong solution of cam- phor placed about the window-sills and where they get in also have a deterrent effect; but, as with ants, the best way is to hunt for the nest, and destroy it by the methods given for ants’ nests. Midges, Mosquitoes, &c.—To sportsmen, and tourists in country places, these most persisent insects, midges or small flies, are a perfect torment, attacking wayfarers in clouds, and even following them for perhaps a milo or two. A good remedy for these is tobacco smoke, or, for non-smokers, try the following: Shake well together ioz. of pure carbolic acid, l-Joz. spiidts of lavender, 1 drachm of oil of eucalyptus, and apply this freely to the collar of the coat or the tie, &c., but be careful it never touches the skin. (By the way, this mixture placed about sick rooms in small saucere will not only keep away flies, &c., but will also act as an excellent disinfectant.) Mosquitoes are, fortunately, not very common in this country, so that the mosquito curtains, so indispensable abroad, are almost unknowm here. Where they do exist, the evaporation of a small quantity of carbolic acid in the room is declared to prevent the incursions of these pests; whilst a 5 per cent, solution of carbolic acid in water, if sponged over the exposed parts of the body before going to bed, is said to protect them almost infallibly from attack. Camphorated oil, vinegar and water, or a few drops of pure ammonia applied to insect bites of any kind, is considered a great soother104. HOUSEHOLD HINTS. to the irritation they cause. To some people insect bites produce an amount of inflammation that is beyond even tliis treatment; for sucli, try tlie following fomentation: Dissolve one teaspoonful of boracio acid thoroughly in half a pint of warm water, and bring this to the boil; place a towel over a basin, lay a piece of flannel on this, and pour tlie boiling mixture over it, fold over tlie towel, wring the ends of the latter in opposite directions, then apply the flannel, when dry, but still almost boiling hot, to the place. This will give relief, but may have to be repeated. Moth.—^With moth, undoubtedly prevention is infi- nitely better than cure. To prevent the ravages of these creatures, upholstered furniture should be lavishly sprayed (in daylight) with benzine, the woodwork should be washed with paraffin or turpentine, and turpentine- steeped sheets of paper should be fastened underneath the fixrniture, whilst naphthaline, powdered bitter apple, camphor, &c., may be forced down into any crevices or corners to he found. But the great thing to remember is that articles in constant use are seldom, if ever, infected in this way, if kept well brushed, occasionally switched out, and aired regularly. The same applies also to furs, which are far better kept in wardrobes if taken out at regular intervals, thrown over the line, and gentl.y, but steadily, switched with a riding-cane or whip, and perfectly brushed, then returned to the wardrobe. If things have to be stored away, air them and clean them in this way, then sprinkle each with a few drops of spirit of turpentine, folding each article separately, and placing packets of camphor, or any favourite insecticide, amongst the folds. Spread a clean sheet on a table, place the furs, blankets, winter clothes, &c., on this, folding over the sides and ends of the sheet to cover the contents completely, and sew them up tightly. If this parcel is then wrapped in sheets of strong brown paper, carefully pasted or gummed down, so that no cracks are to be found for the moth to creep into, these can be put away in perfect safety, either in close-fitting drawers or tightly-closed boxes or chests. Before use, the articles should, at the beginning of winter, be well shaken out and aired for a day or two in a diy room, and, if possible,, a draught, after which no smell of turpentine, &c., will be apparent. Old housewives recommend the wrapping pf a tallow candle in a brown-papep cylinder amongstVARIOUS RECIPES, &c. 105 the clothes as au infallible anti-moth specific. It is well to remember that a change in the moth exterminator used is advisable, as after a time the moths seem to become immune. (I have seen moth peacefully browsing on lumps of camphor, whilst bitter apple also appears to lose its power in the ^me way.) But the moment moth is suspected in furniture, &c., it should be well examined at once, and, if the suspicion is verified, the article should be sent off to a cleaner’s to be properly baked and purified. Unless this is attended to, the mischief will spread, and a whole suite of furniture may be ruined in a vei*y short time. If carpets are attacked, raise them, lay a damp cloth under the infected spot, cover with another, then iron heavily and steadily with a really hot iron till the carpet and the cloths are quite dry. If furniture cannot be sent away to be cleansed, the only thing is to put it in one room, hermetically close the windows, and burn sulphur in the room, closing and pasting up the doors, and leaving it for a day or so before opening and airing it. Silvertails.—These queer little creaturc.s, which appear in some houses, are often troublesome to dislodge, but carbolic soap, or the chloride of lime treatment advised for fleas, will, in the end, get rid of them, especially if their point of entrance is found and blocked up. B^asp.s.—The.se, in the end of summer, often become little short of a scoui-ge. The only effectual remedies are the destructioji, in the spring, of every queen wasp met with, and the discovery and destruction of the nest, which is certain to be somewhere close by where they congregate. For their stings, the remedies, especially the boracic fomentation, recommended for insect bites, will be found a relief, as will also a raw cut onion rubbed on the stung part. The same advice applies to hornets, which are verj' plentiful some yeai's. Mice and rats are a sure sign of building defects, though in old houses the walls and flooring are so infested with them that they are almost impossible to extirpate. Examine well the places of entrance (in town houses especially), and carefully stop these with plaster of Paris, mixed to a stiff paste with water and broken glass, or ram up the holes tightly with common hard soda soap. There are a vailoty of mice poisons, but these require care in using in houses where there are cats or dogs or children. The best things are traps and a good mousing cat. Rats in drains aro in tlieirlOG HOUSEHOLD HINTS. proper place, but once they come out should he hunted down ruthlessly. It should be remembered that they are patent disease carriers. Traps are often advised, and, in a way, are very successful, but it is very doubtful if they do not bring as many rats as tliey kill; so the best thing is to call in the builder and have every possible place of enlranco securely cemented up. It is said by country people that if a rat be caught, a bell hung round his neck, and then turned loose, that he will infallibly frighten away his companions. If true I cannot say, but I knew in my childhood an old house where a rat had been so treated, and certainly tliere never seemed to be any others, save the patriarch of the bell! Slugs and Snails.—These are often a great annoyance in houses flush with a garden or backyard. If the parts they affect are well washed with the strongest brine procurable, or with a strong solution of either carbolic acid or sulphate of iron (the chemist will mix this, which is, by the way, a poison, and must be used care- fully), it is often an effectual cure. Common salt, or even bran, strewed in their haunts kills or hampers them, and so renders their destruction easier. Half a pint of strong ammonia, well mixed with three gallons of water, is also an excellent wash for slug-infested haunts. Ivory, to Clean.—If well washed with plenty of soap and water, and then exposed to the sun as you lift it straight from the suds, ivory can often be perfectly cleaned. But remember to keep the ivory well wetted with soapsuds while in the sun and as soon as it is whitened, wash and rinse it well and dry carefully. A little lemon juice in the rinsing water is a great improve- ment. A lemon dipped in fine salt and well rubbed on is also effectual for ink stains, &o. In extreme cases a solution of loz. oxalic acid (poison) in half a pint of water, if well rubbed on with a stiff brush, the ivory being then well washed, dried in a soft cloth, and left for a little near, but not actually in front of the fire, will be successful. Knife handles can be well cleaned thus. Remember ivory washed in too hot water or allowed to steep in it is sure to crack and become unsightly. Lace, Valuable, Old, to Clean.—Fold it neatly, sprink- ling it thickly with dry, powdered magnesia between each fold, and leave it for several days; then shake off the magnesia, which will carry most of the dirt with it,VARIOUS RECIPES. Ac. 107 Lace, io iP’a.s/i.—Cover a large bottle, say an imperial quart, with fine flannel, and secure it with a needle and thread. Wrap the lace carefully round, spiral fashion, fixing both ends with great care, and cover the lace with vei'y fine flannel or else with clean muslin. Make a strong lather of good, pure soap, and rub the lace and its envelope with it; rinse under a tap, and repeat till tlie lace is quite clean. Then rinse in thin rice water or clear gum water, very weak—rub down to got rid of any excess of this starcli—dip in cool water, and then dry the lace, with the muslin removed, in the sun. Filling the bottle with hot water will expedite this process. When the lace is nearly dry, iron it with a cool iron between very fine muslin, picking out the lace as required. A hot iron makes the lace hard and stiff like common curtain lace. Caro in wrapping the lace on the bottle is care well bestowed, as less picking out is required afterwards. Lace. Gold, to Clean-—The following is a good recipe; loz. of stale bread in fine cnimbs, ^oz. of magnesia, ^oz. of cream of tartar. With spirits of wine make the above into a paste, and apply to the lace with a .small brush. When dry, dust off the crumbs, and rub gently with chamois leather. This preparation will not soil ^ scarlet. Lace, Silver, and Embroidery, to Clean.—If much tar- nished, brush over with liquid ammonia, and rub well with wash leather. Sprinkle the lace with finely- powdered whiting, and bru.sh off with a fairly hard brush. But perhaps the best medium for cleaning such articles is a very dilute solution of cyanide of potassium in water. This is, however, a deadl.y chemical, and the solution is best made up by the chemist from whom it is bought. Nothing is so quickly effective, and, if applied on a sponge tied to a glass tube or rod, no danger to the hands need be apprehended. After removing the tarnish, use a clean sponge. Another nostrum is oxalic acid, also a poison, and applied in the same way. Cream of tartar made into a paste with water can be applied, and then, after some time has elapsed, brushed off with a fairly hard brush. Some people use magnesia, either dry or made into a paste with water, and brush it off when dry. Soldiers, again, use gin for their lace, while others use fuller’s earth. One of the simplest cleansing mediums for silver, either lace or plate, is hyposulphite of soda, cjissolved in watep; jt is an almost instantaneous108 HOUSEHOLD HINTS. remover of tarni.sh on silver. Strong liquor amraonise (sp. gr. '880) is also excellent, and .so, too, is sal volatile; but the ammonia affects some coloured cloths more tlian ethers. Leather, Morocco, to lienovate.—If this is the seat of a chair, this leather should, from the first, be occasion- ally rubbed over with a clean, soft cloth, and moistened with a little fresh milk, as this prevents the leather from drying and cracking. It must, of course, be well wiped off afterwards. To' cleanse and polish the leather apply egg glair not too generoiLsly with a paint brush, and polish with a clean old silk handkerchief. When leather gets worn and shows a woolly surface, the only remedy is to re-colour this Avith some dye, either plain or blended to get the right shade, applying this dye as dry as possible, for slopping or OA'-er-Avettiug leather spoils it. When this colour is quite dry and well soaked into the leather the latter may be polished as before Avith the glair. To make this, AAdiip together the Avhite of one raw fresh egg, AA’itli half a teacupful of Avater, till it is all of a froth, and the egg Avhite is perfectly dissoh'ed. TheiA let it stand for some hours till the froth has sub- sided, Avhen the clear part is poured off and used. If properly made this produces a nice Amrnish. Grease Stained.—Apply benzine very care- fully to the spots. Ink Stained.—Drop a drop or two of sweet spirits of nitre by means of a quill on to the spot and wash off with a little Avarm Avater and a silk handker- chief and rub the place well afterwards with another dry one. This will also remove inkstains from polished Avood. Marble, to Clean.—Tound two parts washing soda, one part each of pumice stone and finely poAvdered chalk, and sift them through muslin, then make into a paste with water; apply thickly, let it dry on, then wash well with soap and water, and rub it up with a soft cloth. Never use acids to marble, as they destroy its gloss. Marble should never be left Avet, or Avith wet splashes on it, as these ahvays darken the colour, and often turn into a kind of ironmould stain. Marble-topped Avashstands can be kept in perfect order with soap and water, quickly rinsed off and dried at once. If very dirty and .stained, vigorous use of Sapolio works wonders. An occasional rub over with milk improves the gloss. Another good cleanser for white marble is made thus;VARIOUS RECIPES, &c. 109 Mix Jib. of soda and 11b. of whiting with sufficieut warm water to bring it to- the consistency of cream. Stand tins in a jar in the oven overnight, to keep it warm, and in the morning it will stir into a thick paste. Well wash the mai'ble with soap and water, then spread this paste smoothly all over it half an inch thick; leave it on for twenty-four hours, then wash it off and polish it up with a soft cloth. This may have to be repeated in extreme cases, but it is an excellent and well tried cleanser. Stained.—It is important to know the origin of the stains, as different kinds require different treat- ment. For ink stains, make a thick paste of uuslaked lime and strong soap ley; spread this on thickly with a brush and leave it on for six or seven days, then w^ash it off with soft soap and w'ater, and polish. Ironmould.— Well wash the stains w’ith lemon juice, leave it on for quarter of an hour, then rub dry with a soft cloth; oxalic acid diluted wdth hot water or spirits of wine may also be used, but either must be done very quickly or it will destroy the surface. Grease may be removed ■with a thick paste of fuller’s earth and water, left on till dry, then well rubbed up. Half a pint of soap lees, a gill of turpentine, mixed with a bullock’s gall and .sufficient pipeclay to make a stiff paste, applied thickly, left on for forty-eight hours, and then rubbed off with a soft cloth, is, like the first cleanser, excellent for the mysterious and inexplicable stains that so often deface marble. If stains, however, are deep-seated, it is generally best to call in a marble mason and have the surface renewed. Alabaster.—It is always safest to keep this clean, as cleansing emphatically does not improve it. It should always be kept well dusted. Ordinary good soap and water, once in a way, will do it no harm if ritised off quickly and dried at once with soft cloths. If stained, apply a paste of whiting, or fuller’s earth and water, leave it on till dry, then brush it off and polish W’ith a silk handkei’chief. ■—; — to Re-polish.—Putty powder (oxide of tin, a poison) mixed to a pa.ste with water, thickly applied, allowed to dry on, and then well polished with a soft cloth, is often very successful; so is also the following: Dissolve IJIb. of potash in a gallon of hot water, add to it then lib. vii-gin wax, and boil for thirty-five minutes; after which let it get cold, when the wax w'illHOUSEHOLD HINTS. llu float on the top. Now put this wax in a mortar and pound it with a marble pestle to a smooth paste, adding water to get it the right thickness. Hub the marble well with this, then polish with a soft cloth. Black, to Clean.—If this is real marble, the recipes given above will answer capitally; or if stained, with grease especially, these marks may be treated with a paste of whiting and benzine, allowed to dry on; but' be very careful to do this in daylight as the benzine is very inflammable. Then polish it well with a thick paste of powdered pumice stone and sweet oil, lastly leather well with a chamois. In the present day, however, a great deal of so-called black marble is in reality enam- elled slate, the surface being obtained by japanning it with tar varnish under the application of great heat, which can, of course, not be done at home. A remedy used for this runs as follows: Apply very sparingly a coating of best Berlin black to the damaged surface, then levelling this well either with pumice stone or a steel “scraper”; finish off first with rotten stone and oil, and lastly with dry rotten stone rubbed on with the palm of the hand. Mats, Cocoamit, to Clean.—Hang the mat in a draught or by the fire till absolutely bone dry, then either hang it firmly on a line, or lay it face down and switch, or rather thrash, it well, and hang it against a flat wall or surface; repeat this beating on the other side to get all the loose dirt out. After this wash it thoroughly and rinse well (in rain or soft water) till the water that drips from it on to a white saucer is perfectly clean. Now peg it out well, to prevent any twist or curl up in the drying, beating it again well when dry to soften it and make it flexible. Straw, to Clean.—Wash these well in plenty of warm soapy water, acidulated with vinegar or prefer- ably lemon juice, scrubbing them well and carefully with an old nailbrush if very dirty; then rinse again in clean acidulated water, and put them in the sun to dry. Washed thus, these mats keep ther colour well, but if treated with soda or dried at the fire they turn yellow to a certainty. Matting, Indian, to Clean.—^W^ash well with strong salt and water, and dry at once with a soft, clean cloth. Or it may bo scrubbed with bran water, or else take up tlie matting, and scrub it w'ell with ammoniated water and either Chiswick or Sunlight soap, using aVARlOlJS RECIReS, &c. Ill moderately stiff brush. Put the matting on a table and wash it a yard or so at a tinie, rinsing it well on both sides, or, better still, drawing it through water after scrubbing it. Water will not injure this matting if of good quality, for, indeed, it wears and lasts better in slightly damp places. Stained.—If the marks are greasy, wash off with ammoniated soapy water, or apply a thick paste of fuller’s earth and water (or the French terre de saumier is stronger), leave it on till dry, and then brush the powder out of the matting very carefully. If the stain is pai'afhn, use benzine, applying this in a circle outside the stain to prevent the latter spreading. This will probably have to be repeated, but will be successful in the end. Remember benzine must never be used near a fire or by artificial light, as it is very inflammable. Metals, to Clean.—Aluminium.—W^h this well in soap and water, and leather it thoroughly, both outside and in. Remember soda must never, on any account, be used with alumi- nium, as it ruins it thoroughly. A little whiting mixed to a paste with water, and applied occasionally, keeps it in excellent order but never allow any patent polishing paste or liquid to be applied to it. Aluminium is perfectly easy to keep in condition, if regularly washed and leathered, and never allowed to stand about dirty. Strong measures invariably spoil the appearance and the surface of the aluminium. As a matter of fact, the same remark applies to all metals. Armour, etc.. Old, to Preserve.—In arinoui-ics all old armour, weapons, &c., are carefully coated with an almost invisible layer of pure vaseline, which is a splendid preservative from rust. Fenders, fireirons, knives, and all steel goods may be treated in the same way, when to be stored^, covei-ing them well with vaseline, and then rolling them up in thick flannel or brown paper. Old- fashioned housekeepers use mutton suet instead of vaseline. Brass, to Clean.—^The best cleanser for this is finely- sifted rotte'nstone, mixed to a paste with good sweet oil, finally polishing with a little dry rottenstone on a leather or the palm of the hand. None of the patent polishes can really compare with this, for though they certainly do clean far more quickly than the old- fashioned methods, things polished with them tarnish much sooner than when cleaned with rottenstone and oil.112 HOUSEHOLD HINTS. .Viiy I'opousso work can be cleaned witli the same com- pound, or with a solution of ammonia; but please re- member that, though admirable for solid metal, it is not much good with modern lacciuered ware, a great deal of which, when cheap, bciiig simply black metal coated with a layer of brass, and finally lacquered; so that any strong polish or much rubbing will infallibly remove the lacquer and the coating or brass, leaving t he dingy under-metal on view. Be careful when clean- ing brass work with any polish to remove all traces of the polish, for nothing looks worse than bits of red or brown sticking about the crevices. Having cleansed the brass thus, finish by well rubbing it up with an oiled or vaselined rag, and then polishing with a leather, but remember, to secure a good result, this rubbing should be all in one direction; cross-rubbing never polishes properly. Brass-lacquered goods should never be pclished with anything, but simply washed in good soap and water, and lastly rubbed up with a soft leather. Unlacquercd, old-fashioned, solid metal is most effectu- ally and easily cleaned (abroad) with onion peel dipped in Calais or any fine sand. Failing onion, lemon peel, after the juice lias been squeezed from it or sour beer, answers admirably for mixing the sand; this is the method employed by Dutch and Flemish housewives, whose affection for brass and copper utensils has almost passed into a proverb. Old-fashioned brass ornaments, candlesticks, or miniature frames may be beautifully cleaned thus: Put into a large pan, sufficient quite boiling water to cover them generously, and, when this is boiling hard, stir in a good lump of soda, and sufficient soap to produce a strong lather. When this is boiling hardest lay in the brass articles to be cleaned, watch the water reboil, and let the brass, &c., all boil well together for two or three minutes, stirring it with a smooth stick to get it evenly wet. Now scrub it well all over with the soapsuds and a soft brush, then lift it out as it stands into a ba.sin, and pour clean, perfectly boiling water over it. Let it steep in this for a minute or two, then lift it out, and dry carefully. It will need no subsequent rubbing or polishing. This is a lacquerePs recipe, which I liavo seen tried on some old brass minia- ture frames which had been neglected for yeai-s, and were groen with verdigris, and also on solid ormolu, with the most perfect success. Bronze, to Clean.—Few people probably know that,VARIOUS RECIPES, &c. 113 originally, bronze was of a pure buttercup gold tint, and that in most cases the olive-green shade with a blue- green patina, we all know so well, is simply the effect of age and, possibly, exposure. At any rate, pure copper, if left to itself and not regularly cleaned, develops a most beautiful olive-bronze satiny surface. For good, really old bronze, if simple dusting is insufficient, wash- ing with ammoniated water, applied carefully with a fairly stiff nailbrush, will be found a success. Wash as quickly as possible, rinse thoroughly, then dry in box- wood dust, previously heated in the oven. I^ever use acid in bronze cleaning on any account! Remove grease with heat, but never scrape with a knife. klodern bronzes, which are frequently artificially coloured, should never be washed, but simply well dusted and wiped with a silk handkerchief, a veiy little sweet oil or pure vase- line being occasionally rubbed over them with tne fingers. Britannia Metal, to Clean-—The best cleansing medium for this is rottenstone, mixed with finely- shredded primrose soap (or soft soap), and worked to a paste with a little turpentine. Apply this fairly thickly, leave it on for a little, then rub it up well, finishing with a flannel dijjped in diw rottenstone. If a very brilliant surface is required, finish with a burnisher. This is also excellent for pewter. Copper, to Clean.—This may be cleaned by the methods given for brass, the onion peel and Calais sand being specially good. The favourite English method, however, is to wash it in a solution of oxalic acid and water (loz. of the acid to a pint of water), then rinsing it well, and leaving it to dry thoroughly in hot sawdust; but this is very destructive to the surface of the metal. A very good method is that used abroad, viz.: A halved lemon, from which most of the juice has been expressed, dipped iir ashes (these may be obtained from the cinder- sifter), sifted through a fine muslin, and well rubbed on the metal, and then thoroughly rinsed off. For bad scratches use a burnisher. Benares Ware.—AVell wash this in warm soapy water, dry thoroughly, then rub well all over with a halved lemon, again rinsing it quickly in boiling water (to re- move the acid), and, lastly, dry well and polish thoroughly with a leather. This is the best treatment for Oriental brass trays, though whiting and methy- lated spirit may be used. Copper Boiler, to Clean.—Mix 41b. of soft soap (in the IHOUSEHOLD HINTS. 114 boiler) with water enough to dissolve it, plenty of soda, and as much strong liquid ammonia as the person clean- ing the copper can stand. Add as much water to this as will lill up the boiler, keep a small fire going, and the dirt will soon come away if helped by a little scrap- ing (a proper scraping tool can be got from any iron- monger). When the surface of the copper is reached, a good rubbing with sand or finely-sifted ash, moistened with hydrochloric acid, diluted with water, will soon produce a brilliant surface. Rinse thoroughly and dry well before use. Do- not put your hands near the soap mixture, and, if possible, keep them out of the second, unless you wear very greasy gloves. Fans, to Clean.—Pill them up well with water, with a knob or two- of soda, and let them boil till the dirt is well loosened. Then rinse them out thoroughly, and clean well with silver sand and soap, and again rinse, and dry well. This is for the inside. For the outside use salt and sand, moistened with vine- gar, till clean, then rinse and dry well. If they are required to be very bright, boil them for a minute or two in boiling beer, then lift them out, and, without wiping them, let the beer diy on them. Another old- fashioned recipe is the following; For the tinned inside, boil up in an old pan, kept for the purpose, one breakfast- cupful of soft soap, half a breakfastcupful of soda, and one and a half breakfast cupfuls of water; then lift off the pan, and with an egg whisk, beat it all to a froth, when you add two breakfastcupfuls of silver sand. For the outside, put into a jar two breakfastcupfuls of silver sand, one of flour, 11b. of salt, and half a pint each of vinegar and water. Rub this on vigorously with the hand but mind it does not touch the tinned inside, or it will blacken it. Ormulu, to Clean.—This should be washed quickly in soft soapy warm water, and well polished with a leather. If very dirty, after washing, cover it with a paste of whiting and water or meth^^ated spirit, leaving this on till perfectly dry, when it should be brushed off and polished. Never use polishing paste of any kind 1 This is the best treatment for any lacquered goods, of which ormolu is a sample. Dilute nitric acid, or a diluted mix- ture of nitric and hydrochloric acid, is sometimes re- commended for this purpose, but these mixtures are both too dangerous for ordinary household use. Fewter, to Clean.—^For this the mixture for Britannia115 VARIOUS RECIPES, &c. metal may be recommended, O'!' try the following: Three parts fill a large copper with water, add to this a good armful of hay, 21b. of soda, and a quarter of a peck of wood ashes; now lay in the pewter, and boil it all for two to- three hours. Now lift out each piece singly, and clean well with a wisp of hay and silver sand; when clean, rinse it thoroughlv in plenty of clean, cold water (it is on this rinsing tnat its subsequent brilliancy depends), and let it dry in the sun or before the fire. (This recipe was given me by an old family housekeeper who, by it, had cleaned some magnificent pewter which had been put away and forgotten for cer- tainly a centui-y, and, when found, was supposed to be utterly ruined. When I saw it it was splendid. She told me that blackened tin could be cleaned in the same way.) To keep pewter in good condition, nothing beats powdered rottenstone, worked to a stiff paste with soft soap, then into each ilb. of this paste work two fluid ounces of oil of turpentine, till thoroughly blended. Make this paste up into balls, covering each with tinfoil. To use these, well wash the pewter, then moisten a ball with water, and rub it well all over the pewter; let it stand for a few minutes, then rub it off sharply with a clean soft cloth, and polish with a leather. To remove tai-iiish, the best thing is half a lemon or an onion dipped in very fine sand or aslies. In kitcheners a very fine ash will be found collected between the firebricks and the ovens, which, when sifted through two folds of muslin, is capital for any metal cleaning. But remember all these recipes are for cleaning old, pure pewter; if applied to the modern fashionable kind, they might tery likely prove utterly destructive^, as the sui-face in modern pewter is produced chemically, and not, as of old, by elbow grease! Steel, to Clean.—Emery flour and oil made into a paste is about the best thing to clean steel, applying and rubbing this on well, and polishing it, after which rub it over with an oiled or vaselined rag and rub up again; or try emery cloth, if fine enough, say No. 0 or No. 1; but anything coarser, through it seems to produce an effect quicker, scratches the metal badly, and, consequently, it gets dirty again sooner. The ash found in a kitchener (described above), or bath brick rubbed down to a fine powder and mixed with either sweet or parafiBn oil, is a splendid cleanser. To clean steel fenders and other suchlike ai-ticles, rub two bath bricks together, andHOUSEHOLD HINTS. 116 mix the resulting powder with either sweet or paraffin oil to a paste; apply this thickly, then rub it until di-y with relays of clean dusters; when it is perfectly dry, dip a clean dry duster into dry whiting, and polish it well. If this is properly applied it gives an almost silvery brightness to the metal. If steel grates have by any accident been blackened with Brunswick black, if it will not yield to the appli- cation of No. 1 or 2 emery cloth, followed by No. 0, rubbing it as much as possible one way, and finished with a chain burnisher, such as is used for harness, the quickest way would be to send it to an ironmonger and have the black blistered off. If the cleansing, however, must be done at home, the paste of paraffin oil and bath brick must be laid on thickly, left on for twenty-four hours, and then ^ain rubbed off with an old rag, and finally polished with fine emery paper. This process will have to be repeated probably several times, but in the end the black will be got rid of. Of course, burning it off does it immediat^y. Once it is cleaned it should be regularly polished, as steel, like many another thing, though troublesome to get right, is very easy to keep in condition with regular attention. Small articles, such as keys, buttons, &c., which have become very much rusted, should be left to steep for two or three days in oil, and then polished as above. Another recipe is this: Dissolve ioz. of camphor in nearly ^Ib. of lard; when perfectly melted, remove all the scum carefully, and, when nearly set, mix with this lard as much blacklead as will give it a rich iron colour, rub the ornaments with this mixture, leave them thus for twenty-four hours, then polish them with a linen cloth and a soft brush, and be careful to get all the paste off them. Some people say the blacklead should be added whilst the lard is still warm, and use it at once, allowing it to set on the steel; but this is a matter for personal experience. Things cleaned in this way keep bright for a long time. Steel knives and forks that have been allowed to get out of condition may be restored by any of the above methods. Remember, wheTi washing hnives or steel forks, to do so in a ,iug containing just water enough to cover the blades, or the steel parts, without touching the handles. It is well, if very greasy, to rub them well with a piece of paper, then wash at once in warm, but not hot, soapy water. (Remember that boiling water or any heat spoils the117 VARIOUS RECIPES, &c. temper of a knife and blunts it.) If a knife or fork has been used for anything acid, clean it at once, as the stain will then come off quite easily. To remove the smell of onions from a knife blade, put it two or three times into the earth. Tin, to Clean.—This metal, which is generally only a thin coating of tin on iron, suffers a good deal from over-zealous cleaning, any strong cleanser removing the outer layer of tin, and leaving the metal underneath exposed to sight, and, worse still, to the atmosphere. Whiting, mixed to a stiff paste with plain water or ammonia, is best, on condition that, when dry, the article is well brushed to get rid of any of the white powder. Another cleanser for tin is the following: Shave down thinly 4oz. of good prim- rose soap, and pour over it one quart of cold, soft water, letting it stand till next day till thoroughly dis- solved; now add lib. of best whiting, and bring it to the boiling point, stirring all the time till perfectly blended, then let it stand till cold, when you add 2oz. spirits of hartshorn, and bottle it at once in a tightly- stoppered bottle. This will keep any time. Shake the bottle well before using, pouring a little of the contents into a basin. Zinc, to Clean.—^This is best done with turps., to which you may, or may not, add whiting. The turps, will cleanse it, whiting giving it brilliancy. Milk, to Sterilise.—^This is often a very important point, for invalids and infants especially, as the result is usually better liked than the ordinary boiled milk. Have the milk as fresh as possible, and pour it at once into delicately clean bottles, filling these till within an inch of the top, fastening them down either with patent glass stoppers or with wads of antiseptic cotton (procur^le at the chemist’s). Stand these bottles in a kettle of cold water, wedging them up so as not to let them touch the kettle, then cover down the pan and bring the water very gradually to the boil; now keep it boiling strongly round the bottles for thirty-five to forty minutes, after which lift the pan carefully off the fire (or, better, turn off the gas), and let the bottles of milk stand untouched imtil the surrounding water is perfectly cold, then lift them out, wipe, and store them. Do not remove the stopper till the milk is actually wanted. This, of course, does not make the milk per- fectly sterile (for that the above treatment would have118 HOUSEHOLD HINTS. to be repeated several successive days), but it sterilises it to a practical degree. But remember, for the process to be successful, the bottles, &c., must be absolutely and perfectly clean and directly the milk is taken out they must be soaked in soda and water for several hours, and then well scalded out. The same treatment must be applied tO' any brush or cloth used in their cleansing. Small frames for holding the bottles may be bought, but the above answers excellently. Onion Water.—This old-fashioned decoction is invalu- able for keeping off flies from gilt frames, &c. Boil one large or two small onions in a pint of water till very soft, then strain oft the liquid and use when warm, not hot, two or three times in the summer. Faint, to Clean. Never use soda in paint washing, as this is fatal, but dissolve two tablespoonfuls of pow- dered borax in a little boiling water, and then add enough cold water to bring it all to a generous three pints. After thoroughly dusting the paint, sponge it well and gently with the borax solution, then rinse with tepid water, and dry and rub up with a clean, soft cloth. If the paint is varnished, rub it after drying it with a little good furniture cream. Fine whiting made into a cream with water is another excellent cleanser for white or enamelled furniture, whilst for finger marks, &c., apply a soft cloth wetted with benzine, or dip a flannel into whiting, rub on lightly, then rinse off with clear water. This gentler treatment is quite as eft'ectual and far less destructive to the paint than the heroic methods so dear to the ordinary char- woman. Stains, to Bemove.—Moisten them well with turpentine. Smell, to Bemove.—Stand shallow pans full of water, into which you have thrown a good handful of hay, about the room for twenty-four to forty-eight hours. Faper-hanger’s Paste.—Of this there are two kinds, the boiled and the unboiled, the latter being considered the best. For it, mix a quartern of stale flour very gradually and smoothly with cold water, till it forms a smooth, even, and rather stiff paste. Now stir into it steadily and gradually suflBcient absolutely boiling water to bring it to the consistency of rather thick cornflour; now add to this a tea.spoonful of powdered alum (this makes it flow evenly from the brush), and it is ready119 VARIOUS RECIPES, &c. for Use. For boiled paste make in the same way. only using warm instead of boiling water, and let it all boil together for two> or three minutes. Use when cold. Of course, this may be made in any quantity required, as long as the proportions are kept. It is the best thing for pasting up little strips of wall paper, which, if not attended to at once, get tom and unsightly. Fapier-mache, to Chan.—Sponge the article with cold water, and, whilst still damp, sprinkle with fine whiting or flour, dry with a clean, soft flannel, and rub up with an old silk handkerchief. Salt.—This is very useful in the household for many purposes. For instance, salt and watei- is the best thing for cleaning stained or dirty matting, cane-seated and basket chairs, baskets, &c. A little put into hot water starch for muslins prevents the iron from sticking, whilst put into the last rinsing water in washing delicate colours, it helps to fix the latter. A very strong solu- tion of salt and water, again, is very useful for a sprain. If tlirown generously on the fire, salt will put out a burning chimney, whilst if anything is spilt on or allowed to boil over the kitchen range, a little salt sprinkled on the grease spots removes the smell. A pinch of salt dropped into the container of any petroleum lamp gives wonderful brilliancy to the light. (The same applies to a small lump of camphor.) Soiled carpets may also be renovated by the use of the coarsest kitchen salt spread on lavishly. Soap.—This is an old housekeeper’s recipe for home- made soap; Boil 61b. of common washing soda with 61b. of quick lime (shell lime is best) in ten quarts of water for half an hour, then let it stand till next day to clear. Now draw off the lye (this is the clear part, free from the sediment), and boil for half an hour with 11b. of common resin and 71b. of any fat. Let this stand till nearly cold, then cut it into bars. The time for boiling seems rather short, so boil it till the ingredients are well mixed, looking like soap, and beginning to set. The following American recipe is said to be an ex- tremely good one: Save evei-y scrap of fat, however small, and render it down in an old pan kept for the purp^m doing this when the fire is low, and being care- ful the fat never burns or smokes, as this is safe to cause a horrible smell. When you have collected 61b. of this fat, put it into the pan with sufficient hot water to cover it well, and stand it on the range till the fat isHOUSEHOLD HINTS. 1-20 porfectly ineltod, stirring it well now and again. Directly it is all dissolved, lift off the pan, and leave till cold, wJien the fat will be in a cake on the surface, and can be lifted off whole. Any dirt, &c., adhering to the under side may be scraped off. Then melt this clarified fat once more; meanwhile stir a can of Babbett’s lye (a well-known American preparation) in a quart of cold water till thoroughly dissolved, stirring it with a wooden skewer, and setting it aside to cool (it heats up when added to> the water); now lift the dissolved fat from the fire, and pour to it the cooled lye very slowly, adding two tablespooufuls of ammonia, and stirring the mixture constantly from the beginning till it begins to set, i.e., twenty-five to thii-ty minutes; when this is perfectly hard cut it into squares or bars. This makes a hard, white soap, excellent for laundry purposes, which will float in water. The above quantities make about 81b. of soap. The above recipes have been frequently asked for by Queen correspondents. Stags’ Antlers and Horns.—These should be kept regu- larly and thoroughly dusted with a stiff, short-haired brush, as moth gather in the hair, &o., at the roots of the antlers, and also in the cloth on which they are mounted. They should be freely dusted with bitter apple, powdered naphthaline, or any moth destroyer successful in the neighbourhood. Buffalo horns and such like may be kept in brilliant condition by leather- ing them, or rubbing them over with a soft cloth on which you have rubbed a very small quantity of vaseline. Steps, Stam, to Keep in Condition.—Boil together half a pint each of size and blue water, with two table- spoonfuls of whiting, and two cakes of pipeclay, each about the size of half a small cake of soap, in two quarts of water. Wash the stones well over with a flannel slightly wetted with this mixture, and, when di-y, rub them with a flannel and brush off the dust. For blue water dissolve suflBcient stone blue in half a pint of water to bring it to the required shade. to Clean.—Mix powdered chloride of lime with cold water till of the consistency of very thick whitewash, then apply this thickly all over the steps with an old brush; leave it for several hours, if possible all night, then wash it off with plenty of cold water, and lastly clean the steps as usual. Excellent for removing green stains left by damp. Stone Floors.—It is best not to wash these too often,I2l VARIOUS RECIPES, &c. though it must be done occasionally. The best and quickest plan is to rub the surface well over with a tlry, fairly hard brick of sandstone, and then sweep this off; this keeps them perfectly white, and only needs washing occasionally. When this is considered neces- sai-y, the mixture given for stone steps answers well. Steps, to Beddeii.—These are usually simply washed with raddle instead of hearthstone. For this you mix rod ochre to the proper shade with water or skim milk, but this is a decidedly messy performance, and comes off very freely, so it is best, though a litle more trouble- some, to prepare the raddle thus: Mix the red ochre smoothly with a little cold water, then pour it into boiled starch till you have obtained the right shade, now lay it on evenly leaving the steps to dry without being trodden on. Tliis is said not to come off, and even to bear washing once or twice. Skins, to Clean.—Sheep’s skin, or any leather that is soft when oleau, may be washed in soap and water, wash- ing the skin well, then rinsing all the dirty soapsuds out of it with fresh soapy water. Some soap should always be left in the skin, as this softens it. The skin must be well worked and pulled with the hands while drying, to keep it soft and shapely. It should be dried in a draught, or in the sun if not too strong. If dried too quickly near the fire or in a hot sun it will shrink and hai’den. to Cure.—Take two parts saltpetre to one of alum, and mix them well; rub the fleshy side of the skin well with this, then sprinkle it thickly with tlie powder, and roll it up very tightly, fur side out, wind- ing it up with broad, strong tape into as compact and solid a roll as you can get it. Leave this roll hanging in the air for several days, then unroll it, lay it fur side down on a flat surface, and scrape the upper side well with a blunt knife, being careful not to cut the skin. If, when cured, tlie skins are hard and unyielding, rub and work the leather side well (kneading and pressing it with the hands) with oil, fat, vaseline (the best thing), or soft soap. If this is thoroughly done the skins will work quite soft. Yolk of egg is also a splendid softener where alum has been used in the curing. After soften- ing the skin with egg yolk, “stake” it, i.e., draw it backwards and forwards over a blunt, semi-circular knife fixed upright in a bench or table. to Freserve.—Before storing skins, sprinkle122 HOUSEHOLD HINTS. them liberally with Keating’s insecticide and freshly gi’ound black pepper, then sew each skin up carefully in a piece of linen, folding the ends over well and using very small stitches. Then pack them tightly in a case well lined with neAV brown paper, and paste a sheet of the same closely over all, lastly fastening down the cases as tightly as possible. This is an excellent way of keeping any furs or skins, only be sure they are well covered both with the linen and the brown paper. Insects hate the latter, and will never willingly bite through it, but they can and will creep through the smallest gap that will give them an entrance. Hugs, to Wash, &c.—If grease stained, fuller’s earth well i-ubbed into the fur will take away both grease and dirt; or wash the rug in aimnoniated water and soft soap, or soft soap, water, and paraffin. Rinse the last time in soapy water, and let it dry in a draught or not too hot a s-un, pulling and working it well into shape as it dries. For very delicate furs of all kinds the best thing is to heat some bran on a tray or a sheet of paper in the oven. Meanwhile, shake, lightly switch, and well brush the fur; when the brands hot, lay the fur out flat on a table and rub handfuls of the hot bran in, the wrong way of the fur that it may penetrate well; repeat this all over the fur till the bran comes away quite clean, then shake the fur well to get rid of the bran, smooth it lightly the right way of the hair, and it will be quite restored. Stains.—To be successful in eradicating stains, the great point is to treat them as soon as possible, for a stain which might be eradicated in literally a few minutes will very likely, if of long standing, need considerable trouble, even if it be possible to treat it effectually. Blacklead Stains.—This is often a troublesome stain to eradicate, for soap and water is apt to spread it, besides causing the colours to run. About the best thing, for a carpet at all events, is to apply a fairly thick paste of fuller’s earth and water, then leave it to dry on, after which brush it well out, and, if necessary, repeat the treatment; but if the stain is a really bad one, it is much better to send it at once to a good cleaner. Billiard Tablecloth.—^iVuy grease stains on this from candles, &c., ai-e best removed by covering them with blotting paper, and passing a hot iron over this, shifting the blotting paper as the grease is absorbed. This, in123 VARIOUS RECIPES, &c. fact, is the best way of treating most woollen materials. If a billiard tablecloth is carefully and regularly brushed it ought not to require much more. At spring-cleaning time, however, brush it very thoroughly, first with a medium, and then with a hard brush, and when you have well brushed out the sides and comers, dust the cloth all over with fuller’s earth and brush this up again, finally rub it well all over with a piece of clean, coarse flannel, dipped in a strong solution of ammonia, being careful the flannel is not sufficiently damp to wet the cloth through, but only just moist enough to> pick up the pieces and freshen the surface. This treatment has a wonderfully cleansing and renovating eflFect. Bricks, Grease Stained-—^For this the ever-uscful fuller’s earth, mixed to a paste with water, left to dry on, then carefully swept oif, usually answers admirably, though it may require two or three applications if the stain is of some standing. Another remedy much recom- mended is this: Moisten loz. of powdered fuller’s earth with a little spirit of turpentine, adding to it loz. of potassium and ^oz. of salt of tartar; work this to a paste with good soft soap, and make it up into squares. To use it, moisten the stained bricks, and rub them well over with this soap and water till it lathers well. Chintz, Stained.—First .shako tliis tliorouglily well, then lay it out flat, and brush itall over with along-haired soft brush ; next wipe it down with a clean flannel, being careful not to smear it, and. lastly, rub it evenly and carefully from top to bottom with dry breadcmmb, changing this directly it gets dirty. Be careful in doing this never to touch the cleansed part with the soiled breadcmmbs. If the curtains are kept thoroughly dusted, this treatment at the grand cleaning time will be sufficient to keep them in thoroughly good order. Candy Stains.—Make a solution of loz. oxalic acid in a pint of water, and soak any underlinen, cloths, &c., stained with Condy’s fluid in this solution, when the stains, however deep, will bo discharged without injui’y to the fabric. Fruit Staws.—Boiling water generally removes fruit stains. Another way is to damp the material with hot water, and strain it across a basin, dust it with salts of sorrel, rubbing this well in with a smooth piece of stick, and then pouring absolutely boiling water through it; this must bo well rinsed out, after which the linen may l^e washed in the usual way. Another way is to makeHOUSEHOLD HINTS. 124 a paste of salt and water, rub the stain over with soft soap or good yellow soap, well wetted, and cover it witli the paste of salt and water; the salt must be kept quite damp to make it act, dry salt is useless. A favourite laundress’s recipe is to soak the stained place well over on both sides with good yellow soap, and then tie over it a little pearl ash, and let it all soak in hot water (even, jf necessary, boiling it), rinse well, and dry in the open air. Lastly, the following, which is a form of eau de Javelle, is a most excellent remover of fruit and almost any other stains. Crush 4oz. of chloride of liine in a basin, and work it to a smooth paste with a little cold water j when perfectly mixed add to this from one and a half to one and three-quarter pints more of cold water (to make up with the water used in blending the lime to two full pints); now stir the lime well up, cover closely, and let it stand for a day or two, stirring it now and again. After this leave it till perfectly settled, w'hen you skim it, and pour off the clear liquid, sti'aining it into a quart bottle, which must be kept tightly closed. To take out individual stains, rub the spot with a rag dipped in this mixture, rinsing it at once, after the spot is removed, in clean, cold, or tepid water (hot water and soap will set almost every stain hopelessly). If the article is much stained or needs bleaching, let it soak in cold water, to which you have added enough of the above bleaching liquid to make the water smell slightly of the lime. Watch this, and directly the stains are removed lift out the linen, rinse thoroughly, and dry in the open air, in the sun if possible. This requires care, as if the hnen is left in too long the bleach will rot it. The real eau de Javelle is made as follows: Mix loz. of chloride of lime with three- quarters of a pint of water, and in another basin dissolve 2oz. of carbonate of potash (or, failing this, carbonate of soda) in a quarter of a pint, or gill of water; the two solutions must then be mixed, boiled, and, if neces- sary, filtered. Bottle and use as in the preceding recipe. IBut, from experience, I should say only use it half the above strength. Globes, Grease Stained.—Such stains can be removed from gas and other globes either with strong soda and water, or with benzine, being careful never to use the latter’by candlelight or near a fii’e. The globes should be allowed to dry thoroughly before use, and should be rubbed up with old, soft newspaper.VARIOUS RECIPES, &c. 125 Ink Stains-—To be successfully trrated thes"' should be attended to at once, for, if left to harden in, they are distinctly troublesome. Quite the safest thing; for fresh stains is milk or hutter-milk; dip the stained parts in this till the stain disappears, after which wash it out thoroughly; it may. however, require to soak in the milk for a little. Ink may be got out of almost any material in this way. For instance, if it has been spilt on a carpet, rub the stain well with milk, changing this till it no longer discolours, then rub the place well with a little diluted ammonia. If just spilt, ink may easily be removed by sprinkling the place well with salt, brush- ing this up directly it is discoloured, and putting down fresh till the salt is nO' longer stained. An old-fashioned remedy for inkstains on wool or cloth was to rub these first with vinegar, then with dilute oxalic acid, rinsing it finally in plenty of clean water. Nowadays Sanita-s fluid is much recommended for removing ink and other stains. To use oxalic acid, dissolve a teaspoonful of the acid in a gill of hot water, rubbing the stained part well with this solution, and allowing it to di-y on. Tliis is much recommended for carpets. With reference to these, it must be mentioned that hot water is fatal to Brussels carpets, as it melts out the size used in stiffen- ing the back of the carpet, therefore, cold application should only be used for this. Rubbing inkstains with a cut lemon or a cut tomato is also said to he a capital remedy. For red ink, much diluted nitric acid is recommended. Inkstained linen may he either soaked in milk or treated thus; Strain the cloth tightly across the mouth of a hasin full of boiling water, letting the strained part just touch the water, then rub well with salts of lemon, repeating this till the stain disappears, after which rinse well, and dry in the open air. Re- member salts of lemon and oxalic acid are both poison, and should be used carefully. Some people dip the stained cloth first in milk, and then in an oxalic solution, half the strength of that given above, finally rinsing well, and washing in the usual way. ’ Inkstains on leather may also be treated with milk very satisfac- torily, polishing after with a little ammonia in case of its greasing it. If old, the best thing is to drop sweet spirits of nitre on the stains with a quill, washing this off with a damp sponge, and, finally, drying and rubbing up with an old silk handkerchief. This' is also an excel- lent plan for inkstained furniture; but in either caseHOUSEHOLD HINTS. 126 it requires care, or it may remove the colour. Unless the spot is at once rubbed with a wet sponge or cloth the nitre will leave a white spot, which nothing will eradicate. Ink, Marking.—For this make a solution of loz. cyanide of potassium in 4oz. of water, and dip the stained article in this, or else brush it with an old toothbrush wetted with the solution; directly the mark disappears wash it well in soap and water. The time it takes to remove the stain depends on the age and depth of the latter. As this solution is very 2>oisonous, it must be kept under lock and key, and only used by a discreet person. Be sure never to let this touch the skin, especi- ally if the latter is cut or grazed. Ironmould.—These stains can be removed in the same way as recommended for ink on linen, but be extremely careful not to let either the salts of sorrel (oxalic acid) or the salts of lemon touch the skin, as both are poisonous. The best plan is to double a rag once or twice, and tie it round a cork, using this to rub tho salts into the material. Another remedy is to shake well together 4oz. spirits of turpentine and loz. essence of lemon till thorou^ly blended, then bottle for use. Paraffin Stains.—^ov these the best thing is benzine. The secret of using this is to make a ring of the benzine round the outside of the actual stain, tlien apply more benzine to the stain itself. In this way you have no discolouration after the spirit has evaporated, but be sure never to use benzine save in daylight, as it is a most inflammable substance. Paraffin on carpets may be removed by sprinkling either fuller’s earth or wheat flour on the stains till they are completely covered, letting it lie, if possible, for a week without disturbing it, then bru.sh off, and there should be no stain left. The paste of fuller’s earth and water is also admirable for this. Parquet, Stained.—If the stains are of ink, and fresh, they can be at once removed with a wet flannel, if old salts of lemon, or spirits of salt, should be applied very carefully, the polish being afterwards restored with bees- wax. If the stains are of any kind of grease, either the fuller’s earth paste, or even fuller’s earth well rubbed in, left on for twenty-four hours, and then brushed off, rarely fails. If the stains are of long standing, make the fuller’s earth into a paste with a little pure benzine or turpentine; apply this thickly, leave till dry, thenVARIOUS RECIPES, &c. 127 brush off, and, lastly, polish as usual. On a hard floor, if the stains are merely superficial, they should be scraped off with a steel scraper, or a straight-edged table knife, or even very fine glasspaper, after which polish with’beeswax and turpentine. If the oak cleans light paint pui'e ammonia over it to darken it. Mtldexo Stain.—First brush off any loose mildew, then well rub in a little common salt, lastly sprinkling it with powdered French chalk, and thoroughly moistening it with clean, cold water; affier this dry slowly in the open air, and then rinse well. This may require te be repeated, but seldom fails to be successful in the end. Rubbing the spot with a little lemon juice, or a little common salt, and leaving it to dry in the hot sun, is also very effectual. Mildew on leather may be removed by rubbing the place well with a clean, dry, and very soft cloth, to remove any fungus (mildew is simply a fungus brought out by damp) that mav be on the surface of the leather, then rub over with a rag just moistened with pyro-ligneous acid. To remove mildew from cloth rather depends on the nature of the article; if both sides can be got at, and the article can be exposed to' the open air, mix together a tablespoonful each of soft soap and starch with a teaspoonful of salt and the juice of a lemon. Rub this mixture on both sides of the stain with a stiff brush, and lay the cloth out on the grass till the stain disappears. Where this cannot be done, rub the stains well with strong gin or whisky, cover this with a damp cloth and iron well. Sponging cloth, with a fairly strong solution of ammonia, will remove most stains and renovate the material. Sugar or Syrup Stains.—Wash out well in warm water, and then rub with ammonia diluted with warm water. Paint Stains.—^When fresh remove either with butter or turpentine well rubbed in. If it has become dry, use turpentine mixed with a vei-y little ammonia. If the colour of the fabric is likely to be destroyed, soften the paint well with a little oil; then remove the stain with turpentine or ether. Tea Stains.—Soak the stains in buttermilk, and then dry in the open air; this may be repeated if necessary, after which wash in cold water. Any of the bleaches recommended for fruit stains are also good, but if of long standing both tea and coffee stains are difficult to eradicate. Another remedy is to spread the stained part over a basin, rub it well with powdered borax, and pour128 HOUSEHOLD HINTS. boiling water through it. Other people, again, recom- mend the use of pure glycerine; but if much hardened in the eau de Javelle given above is about as good as anything, if carefully used. White%vash Stains.—Apply a little paraffin with a soft rag, and you will find the spots will disappear completely without injuring even the most delicate paint. Wallpaper, Stained.—The best for this is a thick paste of fullei-^s earth and water, left on all night, and then carefully brushed off. This may need to be repeated. Smoke stains are best removed with dry, but soft, bread- crumb, changing the latter directly it is soiled. Terra-Cotta Btists, etc., to Clean.—Remove all traces of the previous cleansing agent with soft soap and water, and then fill the bust with rain water, and let that soak through the pores. Another plan would bo to place the bust in a bath of rain water (oi- other water that has been softened), and allow it to soak for a day or two, and then brush carefully. Tiles, to Clean.—Tiles in an ordinary way are better kept if never washed, but rubbed over with a damp cloth and then with skim milk, or milk and water. If unglazed and very dirty, clean them with a damp flannel dipped in fine Calais sand, using as little water as possi- ble, and then polisli it with milk. If they are glazed, ammoniated water or Hudson’s extract of soap will be best. But never allow the maids to swill the tiles with water as they are so fond of doing, as this works through to the cement, carrying the dirt with it, and in the long run loosens and unsets the tiles. If tiles are stained, wash carefully and quickly with Brook’s or Sunlight soap; if this does not answer, appl.y a thick paste of whiting diluted with a solution of soda, or a paste made of very strong soap lees and quick lime, washing this off in a day or so with soap and water. Whiting and water mixed to a thin cream thickly applied and then wiped off with a flannel and polished with a soft duster is excellent for tiles. If tiled hearths are badly stained, a paste made with a bullock’s gall, a wine-glassful of soap lees, half as much turpentine, and a little pipeclay, will usually remove these with one or two applications. If this fails, use dilute muriatic acid. Where resinous fire-lighters are used, spots of erease or resin may be removed from a tiled hearth by tbe use of a piece of glass or the back of a knife, whilst turpentine or paraffin will remove any trace of blacklead. Loose tiles should be129 VARIOUS RECIPES, &c. lifted o«t tie dirt aolr ofa Stee to thi tread, the tUes are wre to come loose Kies stamed with plaster, paint, &c , ^Culd be scoured three or four days successively with strong brine°r which beef or port has been pickled. '"l^toMT’VT'-pSi-Ser.pe any scratched mi£S the edge of a knife rubbed down on a stone to a very obtuse angle. Next polish the shell a drv flaSel dipped in a paste of fine charcoal and water, then with a paste of precipitated whiting and vin^ar, SffiSVrub up the shell well with the pahn of the hand dusted with precipitated whiting; or rub the shel irlu S rottInstoL and oil. next with jewellers’ rouze and lastly with a chamois leather. . accidents wiU happen in the most particular households, it is well to know how to make this as abroad it is not always easy to hiid a skiUea d^orator. The following well-tned recipe, given by an SriSn lady, is excellent and lasting: For a small ceiling slake a quarter of a bushel of unslaked hme with boilinff water, and cover it up closely. To tin add half a peck of salt previously dissolved in wann water, and MXt l^lb. of ground nee smoothly mxed and boiled to a rather thin paste, stirring this mto the wash while still at boiling heat. Lastly stir in 4oz. powdered Spanish white, and ilb- of glue previously melted in warm water. Stir this all well together^hen let it stand untouched for four or five days. When ready to use it, reheat it and use w^lst hot. The ceiling should be first well swept, and lastly well washed before applying the whitewash. A rougher form of whitewash is made by usmg lime alone, without the erround rice. This is excellent for disinfecting purposes. Ordinary whitewash is made by soaking plain whiting in water for twelve or fourteen hours, then adding about half a pint of size for every two and a half gaUoi^ ot whitewash, to prevent its coming off, as whitewash so often does. All these washes may be colour^ to taste with yellow ochre, Venetian red, rose pink, Brunswick green, stirred in like the Spanish white given in the first recipe. The great thing is to add the colour very gradually and in small quantities, to get the precise shade you wish for. , u u,. Windou-s, to CZean.—Wmdows should never be130 HOUSEHOLD HINTS. cleaned on wet, foggy, frosty, or very sunsliiny days, and one© begun the work must be carried through at once, or the result will be unsatisfactory, esi>ecimly if water is used in the cleansing. The usual process is this: Well dust the windows both inside and out, and wash the woodwork. Next wash well with a cloth or leather wrung out of tepid water to which you have added a spoonful of either ammonia or paraffin, getting well into the corners; then diy with a clean duster. Mind that any cloths used in window Avasliing are not fluffy, or they will spoil the result. Then polish either with a clean cloth or leather, or, better still, with pads of soft newspaper. In winter it is better to us© no water, but to rub whiting slightly moistened with water or methylated spirit on to the glass with a flannel, and then polish with two leathers, or clean, soft newspaper. Faint iStained.—Paint or puttv splashes may be removed by rubbing them with strong, hot vin^ar. Steaming or Freezing.—^When the windows are perfectly cleaned, soak a piece of cotton rag in pure glycerine, and apply this all over the window on the inside; then with a clean, dry rag polish the whole pane lightly all over till the glycerine is invisible, though not actually all removed. This will give a brilliant, lasting polish, and saves all risk of condensation, or “ sweatii^,” which occurs in rooms whose ventilation is defective, and there is not sufficient fresh air admitted to prevent the clouding of the glass. The room should be fairly warm and quite d^ when the glycerine is applied. Much less window cleaning is needed if servants are careful to keep the insides of the panes thoroughly dusted and polished with whiting or the glycerine.INDEX. Allowances, 4-6 ba.con, 8, 14 beer, 15 bread, 7, 14 butter, 7, 14 candles, oil, &o., 12 cereals, 36 cheese, 12, 14 coals, 13, 14, 15 cocoa and coffee, 6,14, 36 food, 6, 7 groceries, 15 meat, 8-11, 14 milk, 7, 14 potatoes, 11, 15 soap, 12 sugar, 7, 14, 36 tea, 6,14, 36 vegetables, 11, 12 washing, 15 wood, 13, 15 Ashes, 13 Average household expense, wages, &c., 3 Sath, to clean, 90 to heat, 13 water, hot, 83132 INDEX. Beds, care of, 74-78 to make, 75 Bedsteads, to clean, 78 Blankets, to wash, 77 Boiler, 83 Bottles, to clean, 90 Brnshes, to clean, 90 Butter, to preserve, 92 to test, 92 Chamois leather, to wash, 65, 92 China, stained, to cleanse, 71 to wash, 70 Cinders, 13 Cinder sifter, 14 “ Cloths,” 52 nursery, 52 “ silver,” 68 tea, glass, &o., 88 Credit v. ready money, 16 Dinner, to order, 84 menus, 85 Dish and pot washing, 87 Drains, to flush, 86 to test, 87 Dusthole, 86 Eau de Javelle, 124 Eggs, to preserve, 92 to test, 93 “ Egg shell gloss,” 97 Eiderdowns, to wash, 93 Filters, 93 Footwarmers, 93 Frames, gilt, to clean, 74 Frozen meat, to thaw, 93 pipes, &c., 94-96 Furniture, bruised, 98 Buhl, 98 oream, 96133 INDEX. Furniture, Japanoso, to polish, 97 liqueur or syrup stained, 99 oak, 97-99 old, to revive, 97 panels, incombustible, 99 pitch pine. 98 ■worm-eaten, 98 Furs, to store, 104i Oas stove, to clean, 83 Glass decanters, 71, 72 flower vases, 73 lamp globes, 72 milk nr gravy stained, 71 to wash, 71 various kinds of, 71 Glue for tins, 35 Hot-water bottles, 34 Insect and Other Pests— ants, 99-100 „ red, 100 beetles, &c., 100-101 earwigs, 103 fleas, &c., 101 flies, 102 fly-papers, 102 mice and rats, 105 midges, mosquitoes, 103 moth, 104 “ silvertails,” 105 slugs and snails, 106 wasps and hornets, 105 Ivory, to clean, 106 Kitchen, 81 pots, &c., to clean, 84, 87 ranges, 81, 83 range smells, 82, 83 ,, to clean, 81, 82 requisites, 88134 INDEX. Knives, 72 ivory handled, to clean, 73 plated, to clean, 69, 70 stained, 73 to clean, 73 to Tvash, 72 Lace, gold, to clean, 107 silver, to clean, 107 to clean, 107 valuable old, 106 Lamps, 12, 66 amount of oil for, 61 burners for, 59, 60 )! to clean, 59 chimneys, 61 containers, 61 lighting, 58 oil for, 57 stoves, 56, 60 to clean, &c., 56 treatment of, 57 wick for, 58 “ worthless,”^ 59 Larder, 40 to clean, 41 Leather, to renovate, 108 Linen— badly washed, 53 book, 47 cupboard, 46 » position of, 46 )i to fit up, 47 d’oyleys, 49 damask, 51 dishing-up cloths, 49 eiderdowns, &c., 49 house flannel, 49 marking and mending, 54INDEX. ' 135 Linen (conlinued)— mattress cases, 49 napkins, 48 „ fish, 49 quantity, 48, 49 quilts, 48 sideboard cloths, 49 sheets, 48 tablecloths, 48 „ kitchen, 49 teacloths, five o’clock, 49 tea, glass, knife, and kitchen cloths, 49 toilet covers, 48 towels, 48 ,, bath, 48 „ roller, 49 tray cloths, 49 weekly allowance of, 50-53 window screens, 48 V. cotton, 51 Marble, to clean, 74 alabaster, to clean, 109 black, 110 stained, 109 to re-polish, 109 Mats, cocoanut, to clean, 110 straw, to clean, 110 Matting, to clean, 110 stained. 111 Mattresses, care of, 76 to clean, 76 Meals, 5 Measures, 41-45 British, 41-42 foreign, 43 fruit, &c., 43 substitutes for, 42 varieties, 4313H INDEX. Metals, to Clean— aluminium, 111 armour, old, 111 brass, 74, 111, 112 „ lacquered, 73, 112 Britannia, 113 bronze, 112-113 copper, 113, 114 „ boiler, 113 Ind. or Benares, 113 ormolu, 114 pewter, 114-115 plate, 62-67 steel, 115-117 „ grates, 116 tin, 117 zinc, 117 Milk, to sterilize, 117 Mirrors, to clean, 74 Oil for lamps, 57 amount needed, 61 cheap, dangerous, 57 flash point, 57 Onion water, 74, 118 Paint, to clean, 118 smeU, to remove, 118 Paperhanger’s paste, 118 Papier mache, to clean, 118 Plate, 62-70 basket, 63 black or neglected, 68 camphor for, 63 candlesticks, 69 dinted, 63 discoloured, 68 dishes, to re-heat, 70 entree dishes, stained, 70 frosted, 65INDEX. 137 Plate (continued)— lime solution for, 64 oiydised, 65 Sheffield, 64 “ silver cloth ” for, 08 “ silver soap ” for, 63 soap jelly for, 65, 66 teapot, 64 to clean, 62, 66, 67 to wash, 62, 63, 65, 70 Salt, to use, 119 rScullery, 85 refuse pail for, 86 •Servants— butler, 29 character, 19 ,, privileged, 20 charity, 23, 24 cook, 24, 25 „ housekeeper, 24 „ general, 25 „ good plain, 25 „ professed, 25 doctor and medicine, 21 dress, 31, 32 duties, 23 engagement of, 18-20 followers, 23 footman, 29 hall, or parlour, 80, 81 „ boy, 30 holidays, 23 housekeeper, 23 illness, 20, 21 „ master’s liability for, 21 lunches, 5 maid, house, 26, 55, 56, 74 „ utensils, 79 LINDEX. 138 Servants (continued)— maid, kitchen, 25 „ lady’s, 28 » „ young lady’s, 28 „ nursery, 27 ,, parlour, 25, 55, 70 „ „ utensils for, 7& ,, schoolroom, 28 „ scullery, 25, 87 „ “ tweeny,” 26 „ “ useful,” 28 man, single-handed, 29 meals, 5 month’s notice, 20 nurse, 27 perquisites, 10, 21 precedence, 32 rooms, 30 valet, 30 wages, 30, 31 Sink, 85 basket, 87 lead, to clean, 85 to flush, 85 Skins, to cure, &o., 121, 122 rugs, to wash, 122 Soap jelly, 66 silver, 68 soft, to make, 119 Stag’s antlers and horns, 120 Stains— blacklead, 122 billiard table, 122 bricks, 123 chintz, 123 Condy, 123 fruit, 123 grease, on globes, 124139 INDEX. Stains (continued)— ink, on all materials, 125 ,, marking, 126 ironmonld, 126 leather, greased, 108 „ inked, 108 mildew, 127 paint, 118, 127 paraflBn, 126 parquet, 126 sugar or syrup. 127 tea, coffee, &c., 127 wallpaper, 128 whitewash, 128 Stone floors, to clean, 120 steps, to clean, 120 ,, to redden, 121 Tablecloths, damask, 51 size of, 51 under, 51 Terra-cotta, to clean, 128 Tiles, to clean, 128 Tortoiseshell, to polish, 129 Whiting, to precipitate, 67 Whitewash, 129 Windows, paint-stained, 130 steaming, or freezing, 130 to clean, 129I 1 k iPUBLISHI^JX) TCVKRV SAXURr) AV. I TUK ILaliu’s Nebjspa^jcv anU Court Cjjronicle, Giving Full-Page Engravings of Events, and Portraits OP Distinguished persons. Also Articles and FULL INFORMATION RELATING TO THE FOLLOWING SUBJECTS : Miscellaneous Articles. i The Exchange, &c. Several Coloured Plates of Newest Paris Fashions are pven the first week in each month. Pnce Sixpence. By Post 6^d. “QUEEN” OFFICE, WINDSOR HOUSE, BREAM’S BUILDINGS. E.C. World of Art. Pashionahle Marriages. Home Decoration, The Library. Music and Musicians. Pastimes. The Garden. Leading Articles. Dress and Fashion. Court Chronicle. Society. Travel. The Work Table. Etiquette. Before the Footlights. Le Menage.RECORD OF TREATMENT, EXTRACTION, REPAIR, etc. Pressmark: Binding Ref No: 3tf*7 Microfilm No: Date Particulars ■JANi C\C^ Chemical Treatment Fumigation Deacidification Lamination Solvents Leather Treatment Adhesives RemarksBROOKES’ MONKEY BRAND SOAP CLEANS, SCOURS, AND POLISHES POTS, PANS, and all COOKING UTENSILS. FOR ALL HOUSEHOLD PURPOSES. MONKEY BRAND WON’T WASH CLOTHES. LEVER BROTHERS LIMITED, Port SimligM, CHESHIRE. The name “LEVER” on Soap is a guarantee of Purity and Excellence.