HliPOllT ON THK INSTITUTES OF MEDICINK. iio and destroy the irritability of the muscles. They affect the nerves, but slowly. These poisons are active when taken by the mouth as well as when applied to the skiu or introduced through a wound. KoLLiKEit, and Pelikan found tluit the Tanghinia venenifera at first quickens the action of the frog's heart, then makes it irregular, and at last stops it, in from five to fifteen minutes. There is no tetanus. The voluntary action ceases before the reflex, and the sensibility of the motor nerves before the muscular irritability. Section of the sciatic does not prevent the muscles of the limbs losing their irritability. The conclusion Kolliker and Pelikan came to is, that tangliinia acts upon the muscles like antiar, and upon the nerves like woorara. KiEDEOWSKi says that hydrocyanic acid, when introduced by a wound or by the mouth, first acts upon the gray substance of the brain, as is seen by its destroying sensation, and voluntary motion. The white substance of the brain, on tlie other hand, remains for some hours unaff'ected. The motor nerves furthest from the brain and spinal cord die first, and those nearest the nerve-centres last. The heart's action soon ceases, and usually the organ is found full of red blood. Joseph found that in frogs poisoned with bichloride of mercury, the action of the heart soon stops. The topical appHcation of the poison produces the same effect. Amelung found that perch die when fifty per cent, of sulphu- retted hydrogen solution is added to the water in which they are. Frogs in an atmosphere of the gas die in twenty to thirty minutes. Pigeons are killed by 3 c.c, and rabbits by 6 c.c, of a watery saturated solution given by the mouth. The gas can be detected in the expii-ed air (as Bernard previously showed) when 5 c.c. of the solution are injected into a vein, 20—40 into the stomach, or 32—50 into the rectum, of dogs. In the first case in five, in the latter in 55—lao, seconds. ANESTHESIA. Sichardson.—On Voltaic Narcotism for the Production of Local Ansesthesia for Surgical Operations. Med. Times and Gaz., Feb. r2th, 1859. P- 'S^- Waller.—Experiments on Dr. Richardson's Mode of performing Painless Opera- tions by Voltaic Narcotism. Med. Times and Gaz., 19th March, 1859, p. 285. Waller.—Additional Observations on Voltaic Narcotism. Med. Times and Gaz., May 14th, p. 491.