252 RKPOllT ON PRACTICAL MEDICINE. as the food enters tlie stoiniicli, and in some cases conveys the idea of disease at the oesophageal oi'ilice. (8, 9.) In some peritoneal diseases of the stomach there is no pain, in others it is very severe. (11, 12, 13.) Pain may be absent in consequence of destruction of the pneumogastric nerves. (14.) Pain at the epigastrium, simu- lating disease of the stomach, often ai-ises from spinal disease. (15.) Severe pain at the epigastrium is frequently present in any state which leads to over-distension of the right cavities of the heart. (16.) In abdominal aneurism (aortic) pain of a most intense kind is sometimes observed. Donaldson, Madi-as Army, advocates powerfully the treat- ment of dysentery (Indian) by repeated doses of ipecacuanha, with general and local bleeding. He condemns the treatment by calomel as most injuiious. The paper contains many valuable remarks, Claek describes mucous disease of the colon as an affection of frequent occurrence. He divides it into three stages: in the fu-st, the characteristic discharge from the bowel consists of flakes or masses of more or less inspissated mucus; in the second, of tubular casts of the gut; in the third, of membranous shreds of lymph', mixed with blood and pus. The circulation in tliis disease is feeble, giving rise to local capillary congestions; the nervous centres are very excitable; the blood is tliin, deficient in fibrin, and red discs; the skin dry and acting imperfectly, and all the mucous surfaces excrete an excessive quantity of vitiated mucus. Wells contributes a paper entitled 'Acids or Alkalies iu Stomach Disorders ?' He states, that pain situated at the cardiac end of the stomach is best relieved by alkalies, while pain at tlie pyloric end, depending on derangement of the liver, is most amenable to acids. The bark of the fresh root of the Samhucus niffra, squeezed to yield a juice, is an excellent purgative in dropsy; it does not cause pain, and jss will produce twenty to thirty stools. If boiled, the juice becomes diuretic instead of purgative.