333 RKPOIIT ON SLllGEllY. irritated secrete pus, arc not readily iuociilablc in the ordinary way ; but that the same sores, Avlieii irritated, do fui-iiish a secretion, inoculation with which produces some form of specific inflammation. EicoED insists upon two distinct kinds of chancre—the simple and the iiofecting, of these the simple chancre is the more common; it is very often nuiltiple; and occurs upon all ])arts of the Ijody except on the head. It is in the highest degree contagious, and confers no immunity against subsequent ones. Its propagation is favoured by a breach of surface in which case the inoculation is immediate; but, the unbroken surface of the skin or mucous mem- branes may become vesicated in consequence of the acridity of the chancrous pus, and the cuticle being raised, the denuded surface is contaminated; this is what Bicord terms " retarded inoculation." Chancrous pus long retains its virulence. Eicord has inoculated successfully with pus, which had been preserved in a stoppered bottle during seventeen days. Both the simple and infecting chancres commonly, though not invariably, commence as pustules. The diagnosis is founded on the state of the base, and of the nature of the buboes which accompany them. In the simple chancre this is soft; or if it be firm, its hardness resembles the brawny consolidation around aboil, and is very different from the cartilaginous induration of the infecting chancre. The bubo from a simple chancre is acute; it occurs in the superficial glands of which one only is inflamed, and this does not contaminate its neighboiu-s. It may be caused—first, by simple mitation, in which case it is a sunple adenitis that may be resolved, or may end in abscess ; or, secondly, it may result from the dii-ect transmission of virulent chancrous pus from the surface of the sore along the lymphatic vessel to the interior of the gland which it inoculates. The gland thus contaminated, necessarily sup- purates, and finishes a virident pus. The edges of the simple chancre are perpendicular as if punched out; it tends to spread siiperficially, and is more prone to phagedena than the indm-atod one;. The' only certain sign is its inoculability. The simple chancre is a local, and never a constitutional affection; hence local treatment is alone necessary. The destruction of the specificity of the chancre, and its consequent change into a simple idcer, is best attained by caiiterization. Tor this piu-posc, llicord prefers a paste made by mixing sulpluu-ic acid with vegetable charcoal. It cauterization f^iil, or it be objected to, sijnple astringent lotions M ill office in case the chancre be not spreading; but if it extends, the