GENERATION AND DEVELOPMENT. 117 the living body he was able to preserve them alive, and study their development up to a certain point. In dissecting the heart of a specimen of the common seal—I'lioca vltulina, Joly found several female nematoid worms, measuring from fifteen to twenty centimetres in length, and about one millimetre in diameter. To them he has given the name Filaria cordis phoca. He found no males. Joly thinks that the embryos enter the animal along with its food, find their Avay into the circulation, and are there developed. Yalentin says that Wagener's researches on the development of cestoid worms, as also on Echinococci, &c., are exceedingly im- portant, and are illustrated with thirty-seven fine large plates. He gives, however, no abstract. Laycock found the OicUum albicans on the exudation from the fauces of a patient labouring under diphtheria, and thought that the parasite might be the cause of the disease. Harley examined twelve cases, and found it absent. Its presence in some cases is, he says, due to accidental cii'cumstances. In one of the cases examined by Harley, the parasite grew on the exudation forty- eight hours after its removal from the patient. GENERATION AND DEVELOPMENT. Thomson.—Oa the Comparative Influence of the Male and Female Parent upon the Progeny. Edinb. Month. Med. Journ., Feb., 1859, P- 696. Spencer.—On the Laws of Organic Form. British and Foreign Med.-Chir. Rev., Jan., 1859, P- 189. Dotell.—On the Influence of White Light, of the different coloured Rays, and of Darkness, on the Development, Growth, and Nutrition of Animals. Proc. Roy. Soc, No. 34, p. 644. Beclard.—Note relative a I'influence de la lumiere sur les animaux. [On the Influence of Light on Animals.] Compt. Rend., vol. xlvi, pp. 441—443. Davy.—On the Electrical Condition of the Egg of the common Fowl. Proc. Roy. Soc, No. 35. P- Thomson.—On the Embryogeny of Comatula rosacecB (Linck.) Proc. Roy. Soc, No. 34, p. 600. EoUeston and Robertson.—On the Aquiferous and Oviductal Systems in the Lamellibranchiate Molluscs. Proc Roy. Soc, No. 34. p. 633. DTincan.—On the Development of the Female Pelvis. (Edinb. Med. Journ., Oct., '859. P- .?i9 ) Lnbbock.—On the Ova and Pseudova of Insects. Proc. Roy. Soc, No. ^.P- 374- Bonifas.—De la ggu^ration spontan($e. 4to. Paris, 1858. (A compilation in support of the spontaneous generation of present and extinct animals.^ Valentin.)