NERVOUS SYSTEM. 185 A case of hysteria simulating hjdi'opliobia, with fatal event, is recorded by GuGix. HuRDACH lias never failed for tliii'ty years to cure tic douloui'eux with tlie foUoAviug medication : Hyd. bicliloridi, gr. s\ to Tinct. Somin. Colch., viS, adis horis. It is essential to give the bi- chloride in the liquid form. Db FiiAisQUE records the foUomng cuiious instance of loss of smell and taste. A laboui-er^ set. 34, got overheated and chilled^ and liad in consequence a stiff neck, which got well Math poultices. Some days afterwards he was found to have lost the senses of smell and taste, and a small, sensitive tumour was discovered opposite the last cervical vertebra. Eepeated blistering of this tumour restored first the taste and afterwards the smeU. An interesting case of epilepsy treated by tracheotomy is recorded by EicCAJiD. A single female, fet. 30, had suffered for seven years from attacks, latterly occurring two or tliree in a day. Tracheotom\- was performed October 5th, 1856, and she continued fi-ee from de- cided fits till the beginning of May, I857. She had then some severe fits, and it was found that the tube had escaped from the trachea., and was lying outside it. The tube does not seem to have been replaced, and she died on May 31st. An interesting case of chorea, associated with hysteria and fol- lowed by temporary dementia, is recorded in the 'Lancet,' March latli, 1859. The patient was cured by Liq. Arsenic., shower-baths, and some doses of morphia. A case of hydrophobia is recorded by Wbight, occurring in an artillery soldier at Aldershott. Death occui-red about six weeks after he was bitten by a dog which had appeared sickly and had foamed at the mouth. The symptoms lasted about four days. LoNGMOiiE reports liis observations on sixteen cases of heat-apo- plexy occurring at Barrackpore, between May 23d, and June I4tli, 1858. None of the officers who wore solar helmets, were attacked. Only tlu-ee of the cases occurred in men exposed to the direct rays of the sun. Ten cases occurred between 2 and 5 p.m.; five be- tween 5 and 9i p.m. The weather was exceedingly hot, sultry, and oppressive, the thermometer at 97° or 95°. During the period in question ninety-four cases of remittent fever occurred. Both this disease and heat-apoplexy were put a stop to by the first heavy fall of rain in conjunction with a thunderstorm. Nervous