289 HERNIA. Perrin—Scrotal Hernia; a second Sac. (See. Med. demulalion. L'Union, 1858.) Schmidt's Jalirb., No. I, 18,159. " ' Hartung.-Formation of a Poucli or Pocket of tlic Sac in Strangulated Inguinal Hernia, by the separation of the fascia transversalis from tlie mu'=el transv (Deutsche Klinik, 20, 1858.) Schmidt's .Tahrb., No. i, 1859. Eedfern Davies.—Femoral and Ventral Hernia Radically Cured. Med. Times and Gaz., p. 158, 1859. Redfern Davies.—On the Radical Cure of Hernia, with an Account of an Im. proved Instrument, and Notes of Forty Cases, lb., Aug. 6th, 1859. Lister.—Two Cases of Radical Cure of Hernia. lb., p. 31,"1859! James's memoir contains an analysis of thirty-six cases operated on by himself, and an inquiry into the causes of death. He notices the extreme rarity of strangulated inguinal hernia in females though this form of hernia, without strangulation, has been shown to be not infrequent. The difficulty of diagnosis in the female, when the hernia is so large that Poupart's'ligament cannot be traced, is alluded to, and an additional sign is pointed out, VIZ., if true inguinal, the hernia, escaping through the ring must descend into the groin and labium; but when femoral and large, the tumour moimls toAA^ards the spine of the ihum With a single exception, James had opened the sac. As an auxiliary means to the taxis, he thinks that tobacco cannot be replaced by chloroform as the latter does not unload the capiUaries or excite the peristaltic action of the bowels. PouPEUT discusses the treatment of omentum which cannot be reduced on account of its volume, induration, and adhesions or Its gangrenous condition. Richter and many others are quoted to show that deligation is not only unnecessary, but even iniu- nous; unnecessary, because the bleeding after excision of the omentum is slight, and injurious, because the ligature provokes suppuration. If tlie spontaneous separation of the gangrenous omentum is waited for, a dangerous suppuration is maintained, ami the recovery is tardy. Haemorrhage, which is regarded as the great danger of resection, is shown from several authorities not to be a catisc of anxiety; but whilst deligation en masse IS reprehensible, it may be requisite to tie the vessels separatX K.chter advises the cut to be made througli the gang enoX ,t^e' Sin tile b^^^^^^ Tl *r to be tlirown off ecoL 1 ' • ' other hand, strongly recommends the incision to ])e carried througli healthy tissui. 19