POISONS AND POISONING. 441 II. Hydrochloric Acid. Budd.—Case of Poisoning by Hydrochloric Acid, half an ounce proving fatal in eighteen hours. (Lancet, 2, 59.) A feeble woman, aet. 63, took half an ounce of the acid for tlie piu-pose of sclf-clestfuotion. She vomited, and soon afterwards had an antidote administered to her. Burning pain in the throat and stomach, retching, and collapse were the leading symptoms. She took alkaline earths, but vomited them, together with blood and shreds of mucous membrane. The mouth, pharynx, and epiglottis were found swollen and corroded; and, from the symptoms, it is probable that death was immediately due to suffocation caused by the irritation surrounding the glottis and epiglottis. ■ 12. Hj/dropliohia. Bagsky.—Analysis of Blood in Hydrophobia. (Clinique Europeenne. Lancet, I, 285.) Scriven.—On Laryngotomy in Hydrophobia. (Lancet, i, 409.) Wright.—Report of a Case of Hydrophobia. (lb., 532.) Thamhayn.—On Rabies and Hydrophobia. (Schmidt, loi, 336.) No conclusion can be drawn from Ragsky's analysis. The cases of hydi-ophobia in animals are so numerous, that our space will not aUow us to record them. They present, more- over, no peculiarities. ScRiVEx reports at length a case, which, although not referable to a bite of a dog, closely resembled hydrophobia, and was saved from death by prompt laryngotomy with a penknife. Wright's case was fatal; the subject a soldier, who had been bitten by a mad dog. It is to be regretted that laryngotomy was not performed in this case. Thamhayn gives a very complete rc'sumt' of nil tliat is at present known on the. subject. The article, behig itself a condensed report admits of no extract. ' 13. Mercury. Maschka.-Adnu„istration of Metallic Mercury in Coffee to a Tuberculous Child • death ; no connection traceable. (Casper, 2.) ' Prince.-T«o Cases of Poisor.iiig by Red Prccipi't.ife. (Lancet 2 -06 ^ Lassaigne.-Cben,ical Observations upon the Organs and Vi'.c'ra of a Person Pcsoned wuh Corrosive Sublimate. (Ann. d'Hyg., July :9.h, ,858 )