21:2 liKl'OltT ON I'lJACTK^AI, MKDK INK. dace uo murmur. (HI.) That dilatations in the course of a vessel give rise to a murmur. (IV.) That contractions in the course of a vessel may also ])roduce a murmur, but not from the circumstance of the blood" passing from a wider channel into a narrower one, or through a narrowed space, but from its passing into the wider part just beyond the contraction. The resiilt is the same whetlier the above experiments are performed on veins or arteries. (V.) Abso- lute or relative dilatation alone does not suffice to produce a mur- nuu-; for this it is further requisite that there should be—(x) a considerable excess in the original diameter of the vessel above that of the constriction ; (2) a certain strength of the blood-current. An experiment with the carotid artery of a horse shows that, with a degree of contraction sufacient to produce a murmur, none will be heard if the heart's impulse, from any cause, is too weak, or, on the other hand, with a contraction inadequate to generate se a miu-mur, one may be produced if the heart's action is increased as by a dose of strychnine. (YI.) If the communication between the contraction and dilatation is proportionally too smaU, the murmur is thereby weakened in its intensity; this decreases with the volume of the blood-wave, and is considerable when the blood passes with a great wave into the wider part of the tube. Thus if an artificial aneurism is formed on the course of an artery, as by inserting an india-rubber ball provided with an in-and-out-leadmg tube, the murmur is far less distinct when the entrance into tlie dilatation is constricted. , p ^ j. KoLiSKO assigns various reasons for his behcf that the venous murmur proceeds from.the vibrations of the cervical fascia, which are excited by the changes in shape of the artery, and have the magnitude of their .individual excursions determinexl by traction from the thoracic cavity, and the degree of tension of the sheath of the vessels. . _ . » p ,, 1 < Kennedy contributes a pai)er on- the diagnosis of fatty hear, a summary of which is contained in the foUowing propositions, witli which the paper concludes, (i.) That fatty change in the heart is rarely attended with valvular disease. (2.) That, with oiu- presen knowledge, the proportion seems to be as six to one. (3.) mat when valvular disease exists witli fatty heart, it is commonly ihe aortic valves tliat arc affected, and these are thickened and Miy U ) That this state of the valves rarely allows of regurgitation. ( 5-) - atat itiT^ay give rise to a soft souffle with the first sound of tl.c