PSYCHIATRIK. 203 AzAM lias repeated Mr. Braid's liypnological experiments, and finds that catalepsy and ansesthesia can be obtained in the way lie indicates. M. Broca and M. PoUin have nsed this method success- fully in one case, and in some others it has been more or less effec- tual. Mr. Braid's original paper is in the 'Edinburgh Monthly Journal/ July, 1853. The principle of the method is to cause the patient to gaze intently for some time on a bright object. A detailed account of heemorrhage in the cerebellum is given by HiLLAiRET, wlaich we can do little more than mark for reference; it is very full and complete. In one form its course is gradual, in the others so rapid as to kill instantaneously. Vomiting is a special symptom, and so is loss of power in the limbs, not amounting to actual paralysis. Hemiplegic paralysis occurs in a third only of the cases; it is always crossed. Crossed facial paralysis and deviation of the tongue are exceptional. Speech is generally di'awly and slow. Sensibility is imaffected except towards the fatal close, and the same is the case with the special senses. Convulsions do not occur if the cerebellar lesion is uncomplicated. PSYCHIATRIK. Austen.—A Practical Account of General Paralysis, its mental and physical symp- toms, statistics, causes, seat, and treatment, pp. 225. Robinson.—On the Prevention and Treatment of Mental Disorders, pp. 228. Schlager.—Beobachtungen uber die Hyperplirenie. [Observations on Maniacal Excitement.] Schmidt's Jahrb., vol. 103, p. 346. • Psychiatrische Mittheilungen aus den Russischen Gouveniemeiils Ilospitalern. [Psychiatric Communications from the Russian Government Hospitals.] lb., p. 347. Girolami.—Zur Irrenstatistik des Kirchenstaates. [Statistics of Insanity in llic Slates of the Church.] lb., p. 348. Brugnoni.—Bericht iiber das Irrenhaus zu Astino, fdr das J. 1857. [Report of the Asylum for the Insane at Astino, for 1857.] lb., p. 348. HofBnann.—Beobachtungen und Erfahrungen liber Seetenstorung und Epilepsie in der Irrenanstalt zu Frankfurt a. M. [Observations and Experience relating to Insanity and Epilepsy in the Frankfort Asvlum.] lb., vol. 104, pp. 1,0 — 133- Hobixsok's work is divided into three ]oarts. The first compnses the general introduction, and the physiology and pathology of the nervous system; the second treats of the forms and the causes,