UliroilT ON MIDWIFERY, ETC. 3G6 traction persists during the periods of ovulation. Menstruation is a consequence of tliis erection. SiMPSoN^s lectures (twenty-six in number) on the diseases of women comprise dissertations on, and clinical illustrations of, the following subjects: vesico-vaginal fistula, cancer of the uterus and mamma; dysmenorrhoca, closiu-es and contractions of the vagina, caruncles of the urethra, neuroses &c. of the vulva, abscess of the vulva, surgical fever, phlegmasia dolens, coccyodynia, pelvic cellulitis, peh'ic hffiraatoinata, pudendal varix, spurious pregnancy, and ovarian di'opsy. Du.\CA?f, in an inquiry having reference to the development of the female pelvis, states his belief that the ultimate form assumed by the adult pelvis is greatly determined by the mechanical forces to the action of which it has been previously subjected, and at a time when the bones have been themselves softer and the parts of the OS innominatum only connected by cartilage. The nature of these mechanical forces the author then proceeds to explain. The normal development of the female pelvis having been thus eluci- dated, the same principles are illustrated by a reference to the con- ditions present in the pelves of Naegele' and Eobert, and it is con- tended that the whole plienomena of the diseased pelves in question are explained by, and support the theory of, the natural develop, ment of the pelvis maintained by the author. Haevey, having in the first place shown, by an appeal to facts, that the pecuKarities of a male animal which has once had fruitful intercoiu-se with a female, may be, more or less clearly discernible in the progeny which that female may subsequently have by other males, reasons therefi-om, that morbid qualities may be transmitted to the female in like manner. With reference to sjqohilis, cases axe cited in which it would appear that the kind of transmission referred to did actually take place. A reprint of Goocii's celebrated work has been superintended by Ferguson, who, in a prefatory essay of forty-seven pnges, intro- duces the various subjects treated of in the original treatise. Fer- guson furnishes at the same time original and critical remarks on these several subjects, bringing the state of knowledge respecting them up to the present time, and incorporating therewith the results of his OflTi experience.