OBSTETRICAL OPERATIONS. 353 respecting the uatui'e and mode of origin of the change in question. He dissents entirely from the " cyst" view of Mettenheimer and Paget, and considers that the bladder-like enlargements are merely altered chorion villi; not a new formation, but simply an alteration and degeneration of previously existing structures. He contends that the generally received opinion as to its mode of origin is in- correct, and that the foetus dies first: the chorion villi becoming thus arrested in their development, but not in their growth, the effects witnessed result. After the villi have passed a certain period of development, no hydatidiform change can take place. Lastly, the author considers—i. The question as to the possibility of a portion of retained placenta taking on the change in question. The question as to whether true hydatids can be expelled from the uterus, and the means of distinguishing the true, from the vesicular bodies the result of chorionic degeneration. By the term " internal abortion of the ovum," Koebeele under- stands the death of the foetus in utero at any period of pregnancy. In such cases the ovum is not always expelled; its coverings continue to grow, whilst the foetus degenerates or is mummified. These ova do not remain in the uterus longer than nine months, seldom longer than six. Mostly, those expelled before the third month contain no foetus. Such foetal ova become later " moles." The growth and de- velopment of the foetus are arrested suddenly, or may not have begun at all. The causes of tliis arrest are disease or death of the ovum, from mechanical disturbance thereof, from disease of the mother, or other unknowTi causes. These moles generally contain a good deal of fluid, which may be expelled in consequence of the bursting of the amnionic sac, and the bag collapsing, the mole may remain in the uterus a considerable time. After the fifth month, ballottement enables us to distinguish between a foetal and an afcetal ovum. The author does not believe in the existence of hydrometra without previous conception. ON OBSTETRICAL OPERATIONS. Godefroy.—Incision of the Os Uteri. Journ. des Connais. Med., p. !;4o fCanst vol. iv, 479.) 1 ot Braun—Die uteiinale Katheterisation mit Darmsarten beliuf der ErweckuriK der kuMsiliohen FruLgeburt. [Induclion of Artificial Premature Labour bv the use of Catgut.] A¥ien. Med. Wchnsch., 46, 1858. (Sch., 5, 190.) 23