REPORT ON MIDWIFERY, ETC, 850 child could not be made to breathe. The whole delivery took place in ten minutes. In Bogg's case the child was stillborn. Spiegelbekg calls attention to the fact, that labour is frequently arrested in its course by a too great flexion of the head upon the breast. It rests on the perinscuni; and the labour is delayed unne- cessarily. In such cases, licretofore considered as cases of weak uterus, the careful use of the forceps is recommended. In each of the two cases related by Myetle, the presentation was facial. The usual term of pregnancy was believed to have been exceeded in each case fourteen days, and in both, too, it was neces- sary to apply the long forceps. In Fountain's case the expulsion of the foetus did not take place until five months subsequently to its death. In a case of hydrocephalus recorded by Lizl5, there was a breech presentation. He remarks on the difficulty of the diagnosis in this and similar cases. In Schultze's case the breech also presented, the head was perforated, and delivery easily effected. Jacquemiek relates two cases in which, the head having been de- livered, the extreme size of the body prevented the completion of the labour. In one case, the abdominal viscera were removed; in the other, the woman died undelivered. In the first case, the weight of the child was 5600 grains (about 13i lbs.), in the second, 9 lbs. In the latter the symphysis pubis was divided (after death) before ex- traction could be performed. Salzgebee records a case in which the foetus appears to have re-' mained in the uterus for nearly two years, at the end of which time a purulent discharge from the vagina, and from an opening at the umbilicus, occurred. The remains of a foetus were found in the uterus. The umbilical opening communicated with the uterus. The patient died. In LoscHEu's case of double-headed foetus, one head being de- livered, it was necessary to amputate it, in order to perform the operation of turning. In Marnitz's case the twins were united from the sternum to the umbilicus. There was a single funis umbilicus and placenta. In Eamis and Beeslaxj's case the double child was born alive, but both died shortly after, the death of one preceding that of the other by seven minutes.