POISONS AND POISONING. 437 rived, if not from the copper gauze used in the analysis, from one or other of the drugs above mentioned. The jury returned a verdict of guilty, and the prisoner was condemned to deatli. A consider- able portion of the press was opposed to the verdict, and the Home Secretary, after hearing all appeals, granted a respite. The whole of the evidence was submitted to Sir Benjamin Brodie, who de- cided, that although the case was full of suspicion against Smetliurst, yet there was not complete and satisfactory evidence of liis guilt. In consequence of this opinion, a free pardon was granted to the convict by the Queen. In the course of the analyses for the prosecution an error occurred. Owing to the use of copper gauze contaminated with arsenic, a solution of chlorate of potash, found in the prisoner's possession, was alleged to contain arsenic. The mistake was discovered before the trial. 5. Airojnne. Holthouse.—Case of Poisoning by Atropine. (Med. Times, 2, 601.) Five Cases of Poisoning by Extract of Belladonna. (Lancet, 2, 560.) Seaton,—Poisoning by Belladonna. (Med. Times, z, 551.) Leistner.—Poisoning by Hyoscyamus and Stramonium Seeds. (Casper, 14, 2.) HoLTHOUsE gives the details of a case of poisoning by atropine in a child tlu'ee years and eight months old. The dose was from a drachm and a half to two drachms of a solution containing two grains of atropine in an ounce of water ; so that the child, who got at the bottle accidentally, took less than half a grain of atropine. Tlie cliild, when fu-st observed, was strange, irritable and excited, but unconscious, with its face in maniacal distortion. The pupils were fully dilated. Sulphate of zinc and mustard and water were given, but vomiting did not take place till three quarters of an hour after- wards. Some of the vomited fluid entered tlie author's eye, and, within an hour, fuUy dilated the pupil. Brandy and water, ether, and ammonia were now given promiscuously every quarter of an hour, but the attempts to make the child swaUoAV almost suffocated it! The child was insensible till i o'clock p.m., or till four houi's after the commencement of symptoms; the pupils were Midely dilated and immoveable, the eyes open, and the lids not affected by passing the finger in front of them; there was occasional jactitation; the skin was pungentlyhot and dry, and covered with a scarlatina-like rash, which the cldld was frequently scratching;