388 EEPORT ON MIDWIFERY, ETC. pregnancy by repeated venesections, and tlie result was favor- able. Braun was led to believe, from examination of a case of " lij'dror- rhoca gravidarum," tliat the exudation in question proceeded from a delicate membrane situated between the placenta and uterus. MuEUAY records a case of exomphalos, two thirds of the bulk of the gravid uterus at eight months passing tlirough the umbilical ring. It was reduced, and the patient did well. McClintock found, that of twenty-eight patients treated in the Eotunda Hospital for scarlet fever after parturition, twenty-five per cent. died. He attaches great importance to the early administra- tion of stimulants in the treatment of such cases. Mackhsdeu relates a case in which a large, branching, fibrinous plug was foimd completely stopping up the right pulmonary artery, and a less considerable one in the left, in a patient who had died suddenly seventeen days after parturition. In Charcot and Ball's case, the patient died a few days after labom-. There had been pUegmasia dolens, and the puhnonary arteries contained clots, some recent, others older. The clots m the pulmonary artery had, it was inferred, been transported from the common iliac vein. In Baart de la Faille's case, plilegmasia alba dolens occurred twelve days after labour, and death five weeks later. The iiterme and pampiniform veuus plexuses contained coagulated blood, the common iliac veins, the hjToogastric and crural, as far as examined, contained clotted blood. So also, the inferior vena cava for a short distance contained a coagulum. No pus was found, and the uterus is described as healthy. Bertin records facts and observations to show that the anti- syphilitic treatment of the mother by mercury is not injurious to the foetus, and should not, therefore, be postponed on account of the presence of pregnancy. Larciier examined the heart in 130 cases of death soon after labour, and in all found the organ hypertrophied. The hypertrophy was limited to the left ventricle, which was from one quarter to two thirds thicker than usual, and was also firmer and more red. If several pregnancies follow quickly one on the other, the h^Jortropliy may, it is contended, become permanent. Tlie disturbances of the circulation, &c., to which women with large families are so subject, are set down to this cause.