346 REPORT ON MIDWIFERY, ETC. M-all has, iu consequence of pressure, undergone contusion, soften- ing, detritus, or even gangrene. To the accidental or mechanical class of cases belong those in which the rupture occurs in conse- quence of operations badly or roughly performed, such as turning, perforation, the use of hooks, tearing of the vagina by splinters of bone, &c. Rupture of the uterus occurs more frequently in mul- tiparas. The lo\A'er segment of the organ is generally the seat of the rupture; the placental surface is not more liable to rupture than other parts; it occurs more frequently on the posterior than the anterior wall; its direction is more generally horizontal than longi- tudinal ; the body may be entirely torn from the neck. The edges of the rupture are jagged, the extent various. There may be simply small perforations in a portion of the uterus, the texture being there softened from continued pressure. The rupture may be complete or incomplete; in the latter case the whole thickness of the uterus is not torn through. The cervix uteri and the vagina are frequently involved in the rupture j more rarely the bladder and rectum. The rupture occurs suddenly, severe pain in the abdomen, followed by cessation of pains, escape of blood from the vagina, fainting, pulselessness, coldness of extremities, &c. The abdomen is changed, the parts of the foetus can be felt. Emphysema of the cellular tissue the author has not observed. The prognosis is very unfavorable, death generally occurring soon after the rupture. In rare cases the fcfitus has been retained in the abdomen, as in a case of extra- uterine pregnancy. In reference to the prophylaxis, it is recom- mended that the uterus be supported from without. As to the treatment, the foetus is to be extracted as quickly as possible; if it have escaped into the abdomen and is alive, the Csesarean section is to be performed. In Thorn's case of rupture of the uterus, the patient had been in labour two days. The child was delivered by the forceps. Death took place four days after, when it was found that the uterus was ruptured transversely at its lower and anterior part, the rent ad- mitting all the fingers of one hand. There was no contraction of the pelvis. Ka.pler's patient had been the subject of metritis, after a forceps delivery, four years before. On examination, it was found that there was pelvic deformity, prolapsus of the cord, and rupture of the uterus. Finally, turning was performed, and the child ex- tracted, the Head having been perforated. Death fifty-one hours