DISEASES AFFECTING THE GENEKAL SYSTEM. 171 meuts. In cases of mei'ciaiial tremor, no mercury was found iu the urine, except in two. In no case of this kind did the urine show the presence of mercury after the internal administration of Potass, lodid. Mercury was detected in the m-ine and fseces after it had been taken by the mouth and rubbed into the skin. The appear- ance of ui'ate of ammonia in the urine in pneumonia is one of the earhest signs of commencing resorption, and precedes the return of the clilorides. In pneumonia., typhus and puerperal fever, albumen appears iu the ui-ine on the disappearance of the chlorides, and vice versil during recovery. In all cases of the most serious exudations the chlorides were not only absolutely, but relatively, in excess. They were always m a far higher proportion to albumen than in the blood-serum. Most gall-stones were found to be formed upon a nucleus of ammonio-phosphate of magnesia. Bristowe records liis experience of diphtheritis as follows. The false membrane consists essentially of fibrine entangling epithehum, which latter is scantily present or absent in the deeper and later- formed layers. Pungi are only present in it accidentdly. The kid- neys appear healthy to the naked eye, but under the microscope have always shown signs of iuflamanatory disease. Transparent casts, swollen and abnormal epithehum, and traces of intra-tubular haemorrhage, are the aherations detected. The blood has usually appeai-ed healthy, but iu some cases shows a tendency to extrava- sate. Eruption on the skin and di-opsical effusion have not been observed. With regard to the relations of the disease. Dr. Bristowe acknowledges that cases of scarlatina may occur which it would be almost impossible to distinguish from diphtheria. The relation be- tween croup aud diphtheria, he thinks also, is closer than is usually admitted. In the matter of treatment he dissents from those who apply strong caustics to the diseased sm-foce, and prefers in all cases mild, detergent gargles. His reasons ai-e the constitutional character of the disease, the impossibility of cauterizing the air-passages effec- tually, where alone the exudation is hkely to prove fatal, the inutihty of cauteiiznig the surface of a tliick, false membrane, aud the neces- sity of applying the escharotic also around the diseased tract. In a paper on the recent Windsor epidemic of -typhoid fever MuucHisoN dwells on the foUowing points, (i.) That the disease was only an increase of a usual endemic. (3.) That it prevailed at the time of the year when typhoid is especially prevalent, viz., towards the end of autumn. (3.) That the disease chiefly occurred in per-