REPORT ON SURGERY. 320 behind tlie malleoli, across the instep; this goes through the skin only, and should not divide the fascia. He raises the flap of skin thus marked out, dislodges the peronei tendons from behind the external malleolus, one inch above which he divides the fibula with bone-forceps, and removes it, after cutting through the inferior tibio-fibular ligament. The foot and leg are now turned on the outside, and the tendons of the flexor communis digitorum and tibialis posticus are dissected from the malleolus internus, after which the internal lateral ligament is divided. The end of the tibia is now to be dislocated through the wound, and removed with an amputating saw; and afterwards the upper articular process of the astragalus is sUced off with a metacarpal saw placed between it and the tendo-Achillis. Hancock remarks that the success of this operation depends on not injuring the anterior and posterior tibial arteries, and on no account should the sheaths of the tendons be opened. Hancock's patient, a boy, set. 6, who had had sHght pain in the ankle for several months, leaped from a wall and injured the painful joint, which became acutely inflamed. When admitted into hospital, there were sinuses leading to the interior of the joint, which was disorganized. The articular surface of the tibia, with both the malleoli and the astragalus, together with the upper arti- cular surfaces of the os calcis, and a large portion of its cancellous tissue, were removed. Six months afterwards he coidd stand and walk without pain. The wound was quite healed. NEW-GROWTHS AND CYSTS. Birkett.—Contributions to the Practical Surgery of New Growths or Tumours, Series iii. Cysts. Guy's Hosp. Reports, vol. v, pp. 247—279. Gunter.—Report of Cases occurring in ' Pitlia's Clinie,' 1854-9. Johnson.—Sebaceous Tumour causing Absortion and Perforation of the Cranium. Biit. Med. Journ., March, iztb, 1859. Foucher—The Treatment of Cystic Tumours by the Application of Sulphuric Acid." (Rev. de Th^r. M^d. Chir. No. 2, 1859.) Schmidt's Jahrb., No. 6, i8s9- Birkett reports a series of cases of cysts of the skin and mucous orifices. He says, sebaceous cysts of the scalp are peculiar hi having a dense homy capside in contact with the tunica propria. This is not the