314. REPORT ON SURGERY. the bone; it was not comiected with the axillary margin, as liad been previously supposed. Hamilton reports three cases of exostosis; one of the meta- tai-sal bone of the great toe, the other two of the humerus. One of Weber's principal objects is to explain the intracellular production of pus and the formation of vessels in diseased articular cartilage. BoNNETT recommends the treatment of white swellings by imme- diate extension and cauterization beneath a plaster-bandage; the employment of an exercising apparatus in distortions of the trunk, and the embarrassed respiration dependent on them; and the treat- ment of ckronic disease of the hip-joint. Bonnett points out the difference between traumatic luxations and those which result from strumous diseases of the joints. In coxalgia there are two prin- cipal positions, in one of which the thigh is commonly placed. It is flexed and turned outwards, in which case it appears to be length- ened ; or turned inwards, when it seems to be shorter than natural. Bennett's plan consists in the forcible rupture of the adhesion, under cliloroform; the limb is rotated, flexed, and extended during a quarter or half a hour; the adductors, flexors, and extensors are to be cut, if resistant. The limb is afterwards to be retained in a proper position by plaster of Paris bandages. Wlien bony anchy- losis is present, or Avhen the scars of numerous healed fistulse indi- cate a too strong fibrous union, this treatment is inapplicable. BoNNEiT advocates immediate forcible extension in aU deformities of joints, unaccompanied by organic changes (?). The limb is to be immoveably fixed for several weeks afterwards. Bonnett treats subsequent inflammation by cauterization, beneath a starch bandage, with caustic potash or chloride of zinc. The application is almost painless, and the suppuration very slight. Beyant's article embraces dislocations and fractures of the phalangeal joints. Mr. Bryant shows that however praiseworthy the general rule to save as much of the thumb and finger as pos- sible, yet this rule has its limits. Two cases of luxation of the ungual phalanx backwards and one forwards are narrated. In compound dislocations of the last phalanx Ijackwards the projecting head of the second phalanx was removed when the reduction could not be otherwise performed. Early motion was enjoined to favour the formation of a moveable joint, but this result was not usually obtained.