SECRETORY SYSTEM. 259 ill the urine for mouths, aud subsequently entirely disappeared, the patient remaining in excellent health. Lo\G has found Tinct. Aconiti effectual in preventing the febrile attacks produced by catheterism. A French author recommends as the result of his experience in Bright's disease—(i.) A generous diet, including wine. (2.) Exer- cise daily in the open air. (3.) General sponging Avith cold water containing one tenth to one foiu-th of muriatic acid. (4,) Protio- dide of iron for fifteen days every month, in the intervals arsenious acid. (5.) Cod-liver oil, if the nutritive power is failing. (6.) Salines of nitrate and clilorate of potash, with tartaric acid in case of tliirst; if there be no thirst, gallic acid. A case of diabetes is recorded, which supervened in a boy, sixteen years old, after a blow on tlie occiput. Gradual recovery took place under an animal diet, with medication by Bicarb. Sodte (seven and a half drachms daily). EosER publishes several cases to prove the highly beneficial eff'ect of Potass. lodid. in the dropsy attendant on morbus Brightii. The usual dose is half a drachm to a drachm in the twenty-fom- hom's. In some cases the urine ceased to be albuminous. BoETTGER proposes, as an improved test for sugar in the urine, to boil the lu-ine, to which an equal volume of strong carbonate of soda solution has been added, with a small quantity of tris-uitrate of bis- muth. If sugar is present, the bismuth becomes darkened. In a clinical lecture on a fatal case of scarlatinal dropsy, Basham insists on the identity of this disease with acute morbus Brio-htii He points out that the characters of urinary sediment are siiSilar* as well as the condition of the kidneys ascertained by post-mortein examination. Eive cases of waxy Kver observed by Pouunieii occurred in sub jects all of whom had abscesses connected with diseased bone IVo of the patients were scrofulous. In several there existed also Avaxy degeneration of the kidneys and albuminuria, or fibrous indu culo'lis''^' '''''' """^^^P^^uiouary tuber- _ Pleischl records three cases of acute atrophy of the liver occur ring in Oppolzer's clinic. In one the ductus communis clioledochus «-as blocked up by a gall-stone, the dnct distended, the hepatic cells extensively destroyed, leaving much fat and molecular detritus Ihe cardiac muscular fibres and the renal tubules showed futty