47 NERVOUS SYSTEM. nations of nerves in the digestive canal. The finest fibres anasto- mose freely Avith each other and with granular nuclei. Gerlacu says that the tactile papillae stand in physiological relationship with the nervous systenij but he is unable to point out their histological position. Krause thinks that between the Paccinian bodies on the one hand, and the tactile papillae on the other, there is a third way in wliich nerves terminate. And according to liim, it is in small, round or oval corpuscles, to which he gives the name of flask-shaped terminal corpuscles. Luschlca had already described these, six years ago, as occui'ring in the mammary glands. Keferstein tliinks that what appears to be a central cavity in the Paccinian body, is in reality nucleated connective tissue. OwsjANNiKOW says that Jacubowitsch^s statement,—that the brain and spinal cord of animals poisoned with narcotics are so destroyed as to be unfit for liistological purposes,—is untrue. Lister and Turner employed the "imbibition method" (steep- ing the tissue to be examined in an ammoniacal solution of carmine) in their researches on the nerves, and found that sections of the sciatic so treated, when examined by reflected Hght, showed in the centre of each nerve-fibre a red spot, suiTounded by a yellowish- white granular ring. The spot corresponded to the axis-cylinder, the ring to the medullary sheath. Cliromic acid was found not to afi"ect the axis-cylinder, but to render opaque and of a brown colour the medullary sheath; facts which confii-m the ordinary opinion regarding the chemical difference existing between the different parts of a nerve-fibre. RoLLESTON says that the corpus trapezoideum, contrary to what is usually supposed, exists in all annuals, although it is sometimes apparently very small, in consequence of being overlaid by an exces- sively developed pons. He moreover describes in man a band of nervous substance, the lower end of which passes into the crura cerebri, near to the exit of the third nerves; the upper of which bifurcates, and sends one branch to the pillars of the valve of Vieussens, the other into the testis. ScHULTZE describes the manner in which the acoustic nerve in the ear of the ray- and dog-fish terminates. He has traced the axis- cylmder of the nerve-fibres as far as the epithelium-layer of the cnsta acoustica. Schultze disagrees with Kolliker in his descrip- tion and ideas of the so-called "Cortischen Organe." Curie