204. REPOllT ON PRACTICAL MEDICINE. physical and moral, of mental disorders; and the tliird is devoted to their treatment, medical and general. After (|uoting the statistical statements of various authors as to tlie greater inlluence of moral or physical causes in producing insanity, the author affirms that his " own experience is wholly in favour of the idea that in the great majority of cases insanity is directly or indirectly tlie effect of sources of mental disturbance originating in the will or feelings of the persons affected, and which may tlierefore properly be considered as moral in their nature." As physical causes of insanity, he ranks hereditary predisposition, temperament, scrofula, fever, and the metastasis of gout, rheumatism, erysipelas, &c. On the subject of the nervous temperament he quotes some admirable remarks of Dr. Trotter, Dr. Gillies, and Sir J. Sinclair. He approves highly of the practice of the Greeks and Romans in enforcing the cultivation of atliletic exercises. Great stress is laid on the importance of training the mind to habits of self-control, of the education of the moral affections, and the avoidance of all kinds of vice, dissipation, and excess. Recognising the great influence of intemperance as a cause of insanity, especially among the lower classes, he looks for its removal rather to the improvement of their homes and of their moral education than to any pledge or promise given at a moment of excitement or remorse. Under the head of treatment, he speaks very favorably of the effect of oil of turpentine in purgative doses (Sss to 5j) as a means of cutting short attacks of acute mania. A solution (saturated) of phosphorus in chloroform he states is an excellent stimulant (dose, tnj—x). AVith regard to general treat- jnent, he entirely approves of Dr. BuckuiU's caution, that " between amusements and occupations a due proportion ought to bt- observed," and cites a case fi'om his own experience to show how a suicidal purpose may be cherished and contrived at the veiy time that a patient is joining in dances and festivities. Tinally, lie recommends various means for checking the progress of insanity in tliis country. ■ ScHLAGEK states that in maniacal hyperphrenia constant and palpable anatomical changes are not always found, thougli he doc^ not consider tliis to disprove tlie dependence of mental disorders on cerebral morbid alteration. In fifteen cases of the above kind tlic disease ran its coiu'se during the first stage with the phenomena of cerebral hypcrfcmia, and tliere -were found in three (after pre- vious epileptic attacks and furious delirium) serous infiltration.