Ur.rOHT ON PRACTICAL MKDICINE. 19G ncous and from injury, di-aws attention to tlie occurrence of dubious cases, in Avhicli, except disease of the blood-vessels, the autopsy affords no means of determining whether the heemorrhage was spontaneous or not. The symptoms during life, being also entirely similar, afford no assistance in the inquiry. In a paper on aneurism of the cerebral vessels, Guix first alludes to the causes which led to the erroneous opinion that the disease was extremely rare. His following observations are partly statis- tical, partly descriptive, and do not admit of abbreviation, but the following numbers, relating to the seat of iutra-cranial aneurism, are important. Vertebral arteries and their branches: vertebrals, 4; basilar, 20; smaU vessel in substance of pons; posterior cerebral, 3. Carotid and branches : internal carotids by sella turcica, 8; middle cerebral, 15; anterior cerebral,6; anterior communicating, i; posterior ditto, 4. AYhole total, 62. After a synopsis of symptoms observed in twelve cases of basilar aneurism, the author proceeds: "The symptoms of aneurism of the basilar artery, though not diagnostic of the nature of the particular lesion, form, upon the whole, a natural group indi- cating its presence and its seat. It is not so, however, where the middle cerebral artervis affected, for it will be seen {vide Tahhs) that in such cases thereVas often no clinical history pre^^ous to the rupture of the sac; or if any, none to indicate unequivocally the pre- sence of organic lesion. Exceptions to tliis there are when the sac has become large, so as to compress the central parts about the base, as in Case iv. Where the arteries of the circle of Willis are the seat of the aneurism, there may also be the same vagueness in the ludrca- tions of organic disease ; but in two cases, where the posterior com- municating artery was affected, ptosis from compression of the third nerve was an early symptom. As with other tumours, so with intra-cranial aneurism; headache, though difficult to estimate strictly, is one of the most important symptoms. The one character of it which should most arrest our attention is its constant recur- rence, and its after distresshig severity, with concomitant disturbance of the cerebral functions. All care, however, will often fail to enable us to form a correct opinion, even should we, as some have mic'^ested, auscultate the cranium for an aneurismal murmur ! Intra- cranial aneurism often serves to illustrate to us how much the whole nutrition of the brain may be affected by the operation of a strictly local lesion. It may lead to subarachnoid and ventricular eflusion, and produce symptoms of insanity and epilepsy.^' The morbid d.s-