REPORT ON PRACTICAL MEDICINE. 162 fever; and lUc diflcrcnccs are as perfectly preserved in the typhus of 1859 as they were in that of 1848." BuDD argues for the specific difference between typhoid and typhus fever from the circumstance that not only in Paris, bul throughout Prance, typhoid is the constantly prevailing form, except on some rare occasions, when typhus is imported, as M as the case in 1854, on the return of the army from the Crimea. Similarly in Bristol typhoid is the indigenous and common fever of the town, but during the Irish famine typhus was imported by the hundreds of starving and fevered immigrants who came over. Tliis fever was at once recognised by those who saw it, as distinct from the disease which usually prevailed. He regards the intestinal exanthem as the specific eruption of a contagious fever, and argues that the most \'irulent part of the poison by which the contagion takes effect is east off by the diseased intestine of the fever patient. SiGMUND gives a full detailed account of the method pursued by him for a long time in the treatment of various forms of sj^liihs by inunction with mercurial ointment. He premises a preparatory and enjoins an after treatment. The method seems to require a considerable interruption of the ordinary course of life. He has never seen any beneficial effects produced on the iitfants of syphi- litic mothers, subjected to the method, by means of their milk. GuuBEU examines the influence exerted by mercurials on the nutrition of the human body, while affected by syphilitic disease. He took the weights of thirty males and tliii-ty females suffering under blennorhoeal discharge, or primary sypliilitic symptoms, to whom no mercury was administered, and also of 103 patients affected with secondary disease, who had been subjected to mercurial treatment from the date of their admission into the hospital. The first question examined was, how the weight of the body at the period of recovery stands, as compared to that at the commencement of treatment in patients to whom no mercury was given. It was found that out-patients in poor circumstances increased remarkably in weight gaining often five to nine pounds in twenty to thirty days. On the contrary, those who were better off lost in weight. The second question regarded the difference between the weight of the patient convalescent from syphilis and his weight before the mercurial treatment was commenced. Some of the patients lost, some remained the same, others gained. The author concludes that the