80 REPORT ON THE INSTITUTES OF MEDICINE. results follow the injection of the before-named gases, either into the peritoneum or subcutaneous cellular tissue, although some of the gases (especially oxygen) did not entirely disappear for a week In experimenting on dogs and rabbits, Bkrnaed observed that the blood returning from the kidney by the renal vein was of as bright a scarlet colour as that going to it by the artery. He further observed that this state of things only existed so long as the secre- tion of ua-ine continued. If from any cause the unnary secretion was temporarily arrested, the blood returning from the kidney had the usual venous hue. The same thing was observed to occur in the blood of the submaxiUary gland. That is to say, durmg the time the gland was secreting saliva, its venous, had the same colour as its arterial blood. On the other hand, while the gland was m a state of repose, in as far as the secretion of saliva was concerned, the blood in the vein was of the usual purple tint Bernard fur- tber observed that section of the nerve-twig which the gland re- ceives from the lingual branch of the fifth-this twig, properly speaking, comes from the seventh, and only accompames the fifth Lugl a certain part of its course-immediately arrested he saUvafy secretion, and caused the blood in the vem to resume he usual dark coloui-. Whereas, when galvamsm was appbed to the peripheral end of tbe divided nerve, the secretion was resumed, and th venous again resembled the arterial blood m coloux. Thus, i would seem that the effect of functional activity, upon the co our of The Uood of glands and of muscles, is reversed; for it is weU kno^vn that he more actively a muscle contracts, the darker is the hue of SfvenouT blood. Bernard promises to explain the peculiar action of thTdand-tissue above alluded to in a future commumcation. g J^L Thxebkesse obtained somewhat different results from tho!e jrmentioned. They studied the question on the ki^ey and maxillary glands of two dogs, on the kidneys and pa™ fs of i hoC on both submaxiUary glands of a sheep, and las ly on rnrj of a rabbit and another dog. Theconclusionsare hat- xs^ The venous blood of the kidney durmg repose is as dark ^ fwf in tbe inferior cava. ad. Dm-ing the tmie the kidney is tt L urine the blood becomes purple-red, but never attains the St scaZ hi of arterial blood. 3^- The venous blood from SlSf and submaxmary gla,ids remains dark in colour even when the secretion is active.