41 NERVOUS SYSTEM. form, pass into the anterior roots, thus occasioning an exception to the law of function in these nerves enunciated by Sir C. Bell. Hence, in some diseases and injuries in which the posterior roots have been destroyed, this variety of sensation has remained. After stating that the roots of the nerves can be traced into the gray substance of the cord, and that its posterior columns pass into the cerebellum, but not into the cerebrum. Brown-Sequard mentions that, after a transverse section of the posterior columns, in some animals, the sensibility is increased instead of being lost; hence these cannot be the only channels for conveying sensitive impres- sions to the brain. If, on the other hand, all the cord except the posterior column be divided, all sensation, as well as muscular motion, is lost. The subject of the second lecture is paraplegia, two forms of which are precisely determined—the reflex and the direct. BrowTi- Sequard thinks a third may be added, which occurs whenever an irritation is so transmitted to the spinal marrow from an organ as to produce paralysis; example in wasting palsy, which Eoberts says is preceded by neuralgic pains and visceral alterations. Urinary paraplegia may be distinguished from that depending on inflammation of the cord by the paralysis of voluntary motion being complete, while the reflex power is augmented; it is further dis- tinguished by the spine being tender on pressure at the seat of the disease. Haemorrhage into the substance of the cord may be dis- tinguished from haemorrhage around it, by the sensibility gradually decreasing, and there being no convrdsions. When the hsemorrhage •is merely round the cord, and compresses the roots of the nerves, there are convulsions, as well as paralysis of voluntary motion. Paraplegia may arise from stricture of the urethra, enlargement of the prostate, and disease of the bladder or of the kidneys. Sequard says the spinal cord may act either on the nerves going to the blood-vessels, or on those producing changes of nutrition. Thus, if one hand be dipped into a freezing mixture, the other hand, as first pointed out by Mdne-Edwards, will become reduced in temperature; not, however, as he supposed, by a reduction of the general temperatiire of the body, but simply from its vessels becoming contracted through a reflex nervous influence. The sixth and last lecture is cliiefly devoted to the consideration of the subject of poisoning. In treating a case of poisoning, two things are, as Sir B. Brodie said, to be done—first, to apply