143 DISEASES AFFECTING THE GENERAL SYSTliM. flaramation is always accompanied with a deposition of urate of soda in the inflamed part. Thirdly, the deposit is crystalline and inter- stitial, and when once the cartilages and ligamentous structures become infiltrated, such deposition remains for a lengthened time, perhaps during life. Fourthly, the deposited urate of soda may be looked upon as the cause, and not the effect, of the gouty inflam- mation. Fifthly, the inflammation of gout tends to the destruction of the ui'ate of soda in the blood of the part, and consequently of the system generally. Sixthly, the kidneys are implicated in gout, probably in its early, and certainly in its clironic, forms; and this affection is not only functional, but subsequently becomes structural; the urinary secretion is also altered in composition [being often slightly albuminous, and always deficient in uric acid]. Seventhly, an im- pure state of the blood, arising principally from the presence of urate of soda, is the probable cause of the disturbances which not unfrequently precede the seizure, and of many of the anomalous symptoms to which gouty subjects are liable. Eighthly, the causes which predispose to gout, independently of those connected with individual peculiarity, are either such as produce an increased formation of uric acid in the system, or which lead to its retention in the blood. Ninthly, the causes exciting a gouty fit are those which induce a less alkaline condition of the blood, or which greatly augment the formation of uric acid, or such as tempo- rarily check the power of the kidneys for eliminating tins principle." Under the head of treatment, he shows from experiment that col- chicum has no effect in increasing the elimination of uric acid or the other soKds of the urine. He does not agree ^-ith the opinion that colchicum acts beneficially by virtue of its purgative action, as most marked curative effects may be obtained without any purgation. Neither does he apprehend that the judicious use of colcliicum renders the attacks more frequent and inveterate. He thinks favor- ably of the use of sahnes, in small doses, administered in a very dilute form, and continued for a long period. Carbonate of lithia is valuable from its great solvent power over uric acid. Ash- leaf infusion is useful in chronic cases; it seems to have the power of diminishing the frequency of the attacks. To the use of Vichy waters he assigns but a limited utility, disapproving of them in chronic and acute gout, and only advising them in tlie complete mtervals of the latter, and more especially in strong and robust subjects, where uric acid is formed in excess, and in cases in which