70 REPORT Oti THE INSTITUTES OF MEDICINE. is fat. On the other hand, the dry, nitrogenous matter, even in- cluding the wool in the case of sheep, is less than half, and sometimes even less than one third, of the quantity of dry fat. Only a small proportion of the increase of a fattening animal is nitrogenous substance. Therefore the relative value of fattening- foods depends more on the digestible, non-nitrogenous, than on the nitrogenous material they contain. It appears, therefore, that the admixture of animal with farinaceous diet does not increase, but diminishes, the relation of the flesh-forming to the fat-formmg capacity of the collective food. Coevisart's experiments upon the pancreatic fluid have led inm to the same conclusions as those arrived at by Pappenheim and Purkenje many years ago, namely, that the pancreas, as well as the stomach, secretes a substance capable of transformmg protem matters into peptone. He thinks that " the pancreatic jmce is m- tended to act upon that part of the albuminoid substances which have left the stomach before being transformed into peptone; and that a secondary duodenal dyspepsia may result from a faulty pancreatic secretion. It may be cured, he says, by treatment suited to gastric dyspepsia. . Kbfeestein and Hallwachs experimented with pancreatic jujce obtained from an artificial pancreatic fistula; but did not find that it possessed the power of digesting albumen, and transforming it into peptone. On the contrary, they thought the effect Comsart described was simply due to putrefaction. ^ . „ , The title sufBciently indicates the object of M. Corvisart s second paper He relates only one new experiment m support of his views regarding the power possessed by the pancreatic jmce of digesting wd-boiled white of egg. He says that thixty-five grammes of albmnen were completely digested in a dog's duodenum m the space of fifteen hours, and that the reason why Iveferstem and HaUwachs failed in their experiments was on account of their em- ploying pancreatic juice secreted under abnormal cu-cnmstances. ^ BuiNTON finds that the action of an infusion of the pancreas on coac^ulated albumen is very irregular. It sometimes disso ves a large quantity, and sometimes none at aU. The pancreatic solution, he savs is much slower in its action on albumen than gastric jmce ^equ Sg from two to six times longer time for its effects to be well 3ed He says, too, that the action of the pancreatic flmd is Accompanied m some cases by a putrefaction, which m others is