85 ON THE LIVKR. to be succeeded by saccharine urine. Excision of the superior cervical ganglion in the rabbit, with division of the pneumogas- trics above their gangliform enlargement, and close to their exit from the skull, is, he says, followed by diabetes. Lehmann gives a review of the recent researches on the gluco- genic function of the liver. Mobeatj examined the portal blood of two dogs that had been restricted to a flesh diet during some time, and found sugar absent. Wliereas, in the blood of the hepatic vein of one of them, sugar was detected. He accounts for the absence of sugar in the blood of the hepatic vein of the other, by saying that the animal was in a sickly condition. It being a known fact, that in sickly animals the liver secretes little or no saccharine matter. PoiSEUiLLE and Leeort confirm the existence of sugar in the livers of fish, frogs, birds, and mammaha. The same authors also found it in the livers of two dormice dui-ing the period of hybernation. They further ascertained that the muscles of cats, dogs, sheep, calves, horses, oxen, and pigs contain a small quantity of sugar durmg digestion, but not during fasting. From expe- riments made upon dogs that had been fed during six weeks on flesh only, they conclude that the sugar found in the bodies ot animals is not derived directly from the food, but actuaUy manufactured by the liver. Moreover, they still hold to Bernard's tHeory, that it disappears in the lungs through an oxidizing process. Colin does not agree with PoiseuiUe and Lefort as to the origm of ammal sugar. Although he does not deny the exist- ence 0 the saccharme function of the Hver, yet he says that a certain quantity of sacchanne matter is absorbed into the system from the food and that the sugar found in the lacteals and in the thoracic l^vs^rV.^ '''^'^ '^^'"'^^ ^^<i« ^ quantitative M of the sugar contamed in the chyle and in the lymph, and Animal. Chyle. Xymph. 0" . . . Horse . Ditto . Foal . Dog . Ditto . o-io6 per cent. o*i4i „ 0-I28 „ o'io2 per cent. 0-II2 „ °iS8 >, °"'3S „