llEPORT ON SURGlillY. 318 the fibres of the deltoid; then cut off the head of the humerus with Butcher's saw. The cartilage had almost wholly disappeared, and the bone was acutely inflamed. The man was up on the eighth day, and out of doors on the fourteenth. Bryant sketches the different forms of dislocation of the shoulder- joint. Skjly narrates four cases; the first of which was a severe com- pound comminuted fracture of the upper part of the humerus. The lower fragment projected to the extent of four inches through a large, lacerated wound. Two and a half inches of the bone were removed before reduction could be efl'ected. Tlus and the other cases happened in boys. A case of dislocation of the sternal end of the clavicle is also mentioned. The reduction was not difficult, but the bone constantly resumed its faulty position; it was sub- sequently kept in place by a truss, and the integrity of the joint was restored. Eeichsen's lectui-e contains the history, diagnosis, and prognosis of this disease, which may be mistaken for neuralgia of the liip, sciatica, spinal disease, coxalgia, and disease of the pelvic bones. Price reprints several articles, wMch, during the last two years, have appeared in the ' Medical Times and Gazette' and the ' Lancet,' on the treatment of strumous disease of the knee-joint by excision; on the mechanical treatment of the limb after the operation; and on some of the causes which have occasionally rendered the operation unsuccessful. Watson's analysis comprises eleven cases which had been treated in Glasgow, four of which succeeded and seven failed. Watson operates by a single incision across the patella, and he cuts the bones with a bow-saw in such a mamier that the surface of the femux is convex, and fits into the opposed surface of the tibia, which he makes concave. Solly gives an historical review of the operation, with a report of the cases treated in St. Thomas's Hospital, and du-ections for the operation and the after-treatment. Erichsen's patient, ret. 80, was a maid-servaut. She had alto- gether a tuberculous aspect. The commencement of the disease of the knee dated from four years previous to her admission. The structiu-es of the joint were extensively destroyed, and there were large deposits of tubercle in the tibia and femur. She caught