REPORT ON LEGAL MEDICINE, ETC. 4A2 Roberts—Poisoning by Corrosive Sublimate. (Med. Times, i, 210.) Suicide by Bichloride of Mercury. (Pharm., July, 43.) In the fii-st case of Prince, a woman took, witli suicidal inteu- tion, two scruples of the precipitate powder. She complained of pain in the stomach, had an emetic given her, and afterwards a laxative. She rapidly recovered, and but slight salivation resulted. In the second case, rather over two draclims were taken. Vomiting was early induced : blood was present in the vomited matters and in the ejecta per anum. Effervescent draughts and opium mitigated these symptoms. On the third day most violent saUvation ensued, so that the tongue protruded about an iuch from the enormously swollen mouth. This state lasted for about a month, in spite of all treatment. The whole of the anterior portion of the mucous membrane of the cheeks, gums, and under surface of the tongue, sloughed away, and four teeth were lost. As the parts healed, the jaws became completely closed, and the tongue adherent to the floor of the mouth and cheeks. Egberts records the case of a man who took about half a drachm of the bichloride. Ten minutes afterwards white of egg was freely administered. Copious vomiting ensued. He passed liquid, dark, and subsequently bloody stools. The mouth, fauces, and oesophagus were corroded, and became very much swoUen. His aspect was choleraic, and he had cramps in his legs. During the next ten days there was much piu-ging, ulceration of the mouth, and mer- curial fetor. The patient died on the eleventh day after the mis- take. Stomach generally inflamed, pulpy and gangrenous at the pyloric end. (Esophagus denuded of its lining membrane. Intes- tinal canal presented the appearance of intense inflammation passing into gangrene. A man, tet. 70, was found dead in his counting-house. In his stomach were found large quantities of corrosive sublimate, of which he had no doubt, partaken, with suicidal intention. 14. Nicoiia. MelsenS.—Note on tbe Search for Nicotine in Dead Bodies which have been in- terred for a long time, and after putrefaction of the animal matter. (Acad. Belg., 12, 9.) Taylor.—On Poisoning by Nicotia, and Detection of the Poison. (Pharm., June, 620.) Suicide by Nicotia. (lb., Sept., 195.)