IIICPOIIT UN I'llACTlCAI- MKLUCINIC. 192 110 practice will save, and which at the lirst no head can clearly diagnose." These the author excludes from his consideration. He passes in review the treatment practised by Dr. Maxwell, of Dum- fries, Dr. Abercrombie, and Dr. Watson. The first bled largely and more than once from the jugular, employing at the same time free purging as an accessory means. The second seems to have relied chiefly on purging, while not neglecting bloodletting. Tlie third recommends only moderate local depletion, and " the regu- lated exhibition of mercury in small doses (as a purgative chiefly)." After reference to the facts that bloodletting greatly facilitates the operation of purgatives, and allays the irritability of the stomach, Dr. Harvey contends that bloodletting displays its chief efficacy in the early stages of the disease in question, while purging is more appropriate to the later stages when the more alarming symptoms have declared themselves. Dr. MaxweU's treatment is said to have been remarkably successfid, the results showing sixty recoveries out of ninety cases. In answer to the first question, then. Dr. Harvey concludes that bloodletting is to be regarded as the chief, and purg- ing as a secondary, remedy. With regard to the second questum, there exists no doubt that purging "should be used to the fullest extent consistent with ordinary prudence," while bloodlettmg, both •veneral and local, in acute cases, is to be employed, not only- early, but as fuUy and repeatedly as can be considered safe. In the later .ta-es free bloodletting may be injui-ious by increasmg the asthema ^^•h?ch the state of the brain has induced. In cases of more clu-omc course also bloodletting has less control over the morbid action and is less tolerated. '. , Bakealieu recommends the hydrochlorate of ammonia as the best therapeutic agent in cases of nervous headache. 1^ is to be ^iven during the paroxysm, three doses at ha f-hour intervaL If ^cbiiiiistered during the absence of the headache, no remarkabl effects are produced. " Besides the temporary rehef, it was ob^en ed tluat in eases of headache returning in periodical paroxysms several times a month the intervals gradually became longer, he attacU diminished in intensity, and ended by disappearing completely,^aftu having been several times arrested by the ammoniacal potion. _ 1 Ins proved effectual in idiopathic hemicrania and menorrhagia, lu d ches consequent on repeated attacks of "f"-«ent fever IlLe occurring in the decline of low fevers, and m the period of irritation in typhus.