265 CUTANEOUS SYSTEM. Thomson—On the External Use of Medicines. Edin. Med. Jour., July, 1859, p. 41. Gull.—On Factitious Urticaria, Guy's Hosp. Reports, vol. v, 1859, PP- 316—318. Barensprung.—Ueber Prurigo. [On Prurigo.] Schmidt's Jahrbuch., 1859, vol. 102, p. ;8o. Cerate of opium (Opii, ^ss, ad Cerate simpl., 3ij), highly recom- mended in carbuncle. Sapo Laricis is found by Mooee very efficacious in the local treatment of psoriasis, pityriasis, chronic herpetic and eczematous affections; it may be applied once or twice daily, and allowed to dry. The ingredients of the soap are—wheaten bran, siv; white curd soap, ^xxiv; pure glycerine, xiij; extract of larch-bark, 5iv—Bj; rose-water, 3xij. Thomson shows, by a number of facts which he has collected, that the male has the chief influence over the propagation of the texture, colour, and peculiarities of the skin and hair. Moore details several cases of skin disease which may be referred io advantage. He seems to shun arsenic, and to employ chiefly mild alteratives, demulcent and alkaline applications, and Extr. Laricis internally and externally. KLETZiJfSKY recommends the use of hydrocMoric acid as a power- ful means of increasing the cutaneous cii-culation and the excretion of carbonic acid by the skin. It is very useful in acne and cM- blams. The acid employed shoidd be as pure as possible, and as strong as can be borne \vithout causing vesication. After it has been in contact Anth the skin from fifteen to sixty seconds, it is to be washed off and soap applied. Glycerine is the best diluent. Several cases of lepra, under Willshiiie^s care, are noticed in the ' Lancet,^ March 12th, 1859, in which a material part of the treat- ment seems to have been abstinence from meat and fermented liquids, with a diet including plenty of watercresses and sometimes cmon-juice. Two cases of clironic pemphigus are related, one by Schoxheit he other by Malmsten. The first ended in recovery after tlu-ee rears duration, the second ended fataUy with pneumonia and lifirrhcea. Bran and sulphur baths were beneficial in the first case • irsemc faded although the eruption was eomphcated with clu-onic utermittent fever. A case of slearrhm nigricans is recorded by Haevey, in which