STONE, LITHOTOMY, AND LITHOTRITY. 297 llEwirr exposed the bladdei-, previously injected with water through a catheter, by the usual incisions above the pubis. The water was then drawn off, the flaccid bladder, raised on the point of the catheter, was opened, the incision prolonged dowuAvards, and the stone readily removed. The wound in the bladder was closed with four silk sutm-es, and the external wound was secui-ed with stitches passing deeply through the abdominal muscles. The accumulation of urine in the bladder was provided against by an elastic catheter passed thi'ough the luethra. More reaction followed than is com- mon after the usual lateral operation. The bladder acted indepen- dently on the fiftli day, and the catheter was removed, but some difficulty was soon afterwards experienced by the boy, the bladder became distended, the jiew adhesions were broken through, and lu-ine flowed out by the side of the ligature. No harm followed; the tracks had abeady become flstulous. On the teutli day the thread came away. The patient was convalescent on the twenty-first day. Brya^jt's patient, a pallid lad, eet. 17, had had an irritable bladder almost from birth, but had never before been sounded. A large stone, weighing foui-teen drachms, was discovered and removed by Bryant. The boy died at the end of a week with symptoms of peritonitis. The left kidney was atrophied, and the right urethcr much dilated. In Wormald's case, the whole inner surface of the bladder was coated with a mortar-like concretion. The kidneys were tuber- culous, and the urethra was ulcerated. The patient, a boy, ait. 19, had been ill a year only. On several occasions impaction of the mortar-like matter in the urethra had caused retention of urine. In Cutler's case, the tube, a capillary one, for holding pencil-leads, had been pushed into the uretlira by the patient, a boy, tet. i %. The calculus which had formed round it was two and a-half inches long. Browne's patient, set. 50, had passed a bone pin, part of the handle of a crotchet needle, doM-n his m-ethra a few months before. Phos- phates had been deposited around it, and the calculus removed by AUerton's operation by Browne measured two and one eighth niches long, and one and a half inch in circumference. lloHERTS relates a case in which a piece of slate pencil, wliich had been swaUowed six months previously, was two and a half inches long, and bluntly pointed at one end. The calculus which had formed around it was from three and a half to four inches lono- by from one and three quarters to two inches wide. It was removed by lithotomy.