138 RKl'ORT ON PRACTICAI. MKDICINK. proved means of illuminating the part of the throat whicli it is desired to see with the speculum. In some remarks u\)on hypostrophes, as Wunberlich terms relapses, and various deviations from the normal course of recovery, he observes that no sign gives such sure and early warning as the increase of the temperature of the body. So long as in diseases that subside slowly the temperature falls uniformly, or with such variations that the morning temperature and the evening are each a little below that of the preceding day at the same hours, there need be no fear that the improvement is interrupted; or if the temperature which has fallen to the normal figure after rapid or slow subsidence remains normal, or after having fallen below this point it ascends to it, there is no ground for anxiety, even if the other conditions should not become healthy as soon as was expected. E, on the contrary, through several days, the temperature keeps up beyond the normal figure (at least at the corresponding hours of different days); if even a little increase of temperature is apparent, comparing similar hours of succeeding days, there is every reason to be on one's guard. If an increase of a degree or more takes place from evening to morning, or from one evening to the next, the occurrence of a relapse of fever is by no means improbable, and the utmost precau- tion necessary, even if the patient feels well. If the increase lasts several days, and advances, one may be certain that a fresh morbid process, or a recurrence of the past, has set in. DISEASES AFFECTING THE GENERAL SYSTEM. Parkin.—The Causation and Prevention of Disease, showing the innocuousness of putrid exhalations, and pointing out what are the real and efficient causes of disease, pp. 191. London. Garrod.—On the Nature and Treatment of Gout and Rheumatic Gout. pp. 601. London. Althaus.—A Treatise of Medical Electricity, Theoretical and Practical, and its Use in the Treatment of Paralysis, Neuralgia, and other diseases, pp. 352. London. Markham.—Remarks on the Uses of Bleeding in Diseases. Brit. Med. Joum., April 9th and i6th, 1859. Althaus.—On 'lie Action of the Electric Current upon the Motor Nerves and Muscles. Med. Times and Gaz., Jan. 29tli, 1859. Hunter.—On the Hypodermic Treatment of Diseases, with Cases and Experiments. II)., March 5th and 26th, and April i6th, 1859.