'I.v8 llEl'OKT ON LJXAl; MEDICINE, ETC. Robin.—Memoir on the Medico-legal Examination of a Blood-blain, Mliiuh con- tallied Iiuiuan adipose tissue. (lb.) Gaultier de Claubry.—On the Appearance of Arms discharged with Guu-cotlun, or witli Powder made witli Ferro-cyanide of Potassium. (II)., Jan. 17, 1858.) Busch.—Obstetric Malpraxis? Prussian Superarbitriura. (Casper, 14, 1.) Ill a case of gunshot wound reported by him, Blumleix answers his question in the affirmative. Tlie article in ' Friedreich' is a historical relation of the doctrines concerning critical days after injmiesj which are of no practical value in our present courts of justice. The article on poisoned wounds is a recasting of known materials. The case reported by Eulenbueg is that of a girl eight years old, who died of suffocation and apoplexy, in consequence of having been obliged to force herself into a cupboard. The case of death from sulphuric ether is that of an illegitimate child. The father ackuowleged its death to have resulted from sul- phuric ether, which he himseK had made the child inhale. According to the reporter, however, the murder was not proved, because the child might have died from the effects of the vapour which was dispersed in the air of the room. Pelikax finds by experiment that a cannon-ball, or other missile, can only cause injury by immediate contact. Taudieu enumerates the injuries caused by the attentat upon the life of the Emperor Napoleon, and gives an account of thek natui-e, importance, and ultimate results. Mair, in the chapter entitled " "Wounds hi General," makes some remarks on their medico-legal relations. Hafneu reports the case of a man who, in consequence of blows with a stick, had sustained fractures of the lower angle of the right parietal, and the squamous part of the right temporal bones; which detached seven pieces of bone, and produced four fissures, runnuig in various directions. He died on the third day, probably from an extensive extravasation. He got up dm-ing the second night after the injury, for the purpose of passing urine. The case reported by KiiKNEii is that of a fatal fractui-e of the skull, in which the injuiy extended to the base of the cranium. A wound of one of the meningeal arteries caused an enormous extrava- sation. The first case of Eoth is that of a girl, ret. 11, who died on the 2ist of November, after having received a box on the ear early in