MANUALS AND GENERAL TREATISES. ■123 collecting. The cominissiou just mentioned is called " Tlie Scieutilic Deputation for Medical Affaii's/' and stands in connection with the Miuistiy of Justice and the Interior. The opinions and reports delivered by this commission are bureaucratically styled " super- arbitria." Of such superarbitria most of Casper's cases were the subjects. Of the fii'st/or thauatological part of Casper's workj we have simply to record the publication of a second, unchanged edition. The second, or biological part is a new publication. It is divided into a general and a special part. The first chapter of the general part treats of medical jurists, and their position in Prussia and other countries. The second chapter gives tiseful advice on medico- legal examinations, and introduces, as a new doctrine, the question whether all persons are able to bear imprisonment, be it for debt, or as a punishment for smaller or greater crimes; and whether, if persons are not in a condition to bear it without injury, such imprisonment is justifiable. This doctrine is described as that of the " zweifel- hafte Yerhaftungsfiihigkeit," a compound word of the bureaucratical genus, in which, we regret to say, tliis otherwise excellent work, like the majority of German productions on medico-legal science, abounds. The first section of the special part relates to disputed matters connected with sex; in particular, impotence and defloration. Un- natural modes of satisfpng sensual desires occupy the third chap- ter. The second section treats of disputes about pregnancy, cases in wliich, according to the author, a medico-legal decision is not very often requLi-ed. The third section, relates to disputed birth and abortion : the fourth, to injuries not fatal: and the fifth, to disputed bodily diseases. The sixth section treats of disputed mental con- ditions. This chapter is highly practical, and free from those sophistical and mostly unintelligible definitions and distinctions in which forensic psychology so frequently abounds. The work of AVald is a free translation of Taylor's 'Medical Jurisprudence,' with additions from the literature of Germany and Trance. It is interspersed with cases from the practice of the author. Many chapters show much originality. Prom a consideration of the great progress which medicine has made of late, NussEii comes to the conclusion that, iii order to ensure progress in forensic medicine, a division of labour in that branch of science is required*