IIEPOIIT ON LEGAL MEDICINE, ETC. 438 the pulse was 170, and somewhat feeble. After that the child gradually recovered, under symptoms exactly like those of delirium tremens. He vomited twice in the course of the afternoon, and had two evacuations of the bowels after an enema of two drachms of turpentine with two drachms of castor oil in six ounces of gruel. More evacuations were produced by jalap, calomel, sahne mixtm-e, &c., during the night. He also passed urine. About midnight the Httle fellow was out of danger, but the pupils remained dilated for nearly a week. The excretions and vomited matters were analysed by Dr. Marcet, who found traces of atropine in each. Some cases of poisoning by extract of belladonna occurred in tlie Charing Cross Hospital, under the care of Dr. Golding. Tliese, and one occurring in the Middlesex Hospital, were the most severe out of sixteen cases which occurred to some little boys who had partaken of extract of belladonna which they had pilfered from Covent Garden Market. In all cases there was delirium, in none coma; dysphagia in few, cutaneous eruption in one. In the first two cases the urinary organs were affected, little or no urine being passed, even with the catheter. The pupils were remarkably dilated, but in two cases, one being the severest of aU, the pupil of one eye was described as " partially contracted." The stomach- pump, emetics, and cutaneous stimulants were employed: aU the cases recovered. The dose of the extract actually swallowed could in no case be ascertained, but in the majority it must have been small, as out of sixteen who partook of the poison, only five sought hospital relief; the extract had been taken mixed with water. Seaton reports ten cases of poisoning by belladonna berries, one only, in a scrofulous subject, being fatal. There was dryness of mouth and tliroat, dilatation of pupils, and subsequent dehrium. Emetics were given. The delirium was successfully treated by tincture of opium, which made the patients sleep. There were no cutaneous symptoms. In the case reported by Leistnee, a man, seventy years of age, had been feloniously poisoned by seeds of datm-a and hyoscyamus. Nine days after death the body was exhumed, and in the intestinal canal were found fifty-four grains of datiu-a, and five grains of hyos- cyamus seeds, wliich were identified by microscopical examuiation. Death had ensued twelve hours after the administration, under symptoms characteristic of these poisons.