463 PUBLIC HYGIENE. powers. He tlieu offers, as a practical suggestion, tlie mixing of food wliich is easily digestible with otlier food which is less so, in order that the former, by being obHged to remain longer in the intestinal canal, may be more exhausted. The chapter on cookery is interest- ing. Special attention must also be di'awn to the chapters treating of the dieting of soldiers in Austria and other states. III. ILLUMINATION OF PEIVATE DWELLINGS. Chiapelli.—Treatise on Private Hygiene. Le Sperimenlale, Nos. 9 and 10. The author speaks of the various changes which air undergoes in inhabited houses. lie considers the relative vitiation of th.e air, effected by the different combustibles used for the purposes of arti- ficial illimiination; and objects strongly to the use of gas in houses, nhhough on very questionable grounds. PUBLIC HYGIENE. I. LAWS CONCERNING THE MEDICAL PROFESSION. Wernert—Condition of state Medicine in France. On the principal Points of Public Hygiene, and its application in the Department of the Upper Rhine, witli a Comparative Review of Public Health and Disease in Germany. (Deutsche II, I.) Menges.—Medical statistics in their Application to the internal Administration of the State. (Henke, 4.) Vogler.—The renewed desire for Reform in the Medical Laws of Nassau, expressed ill the Representative Chambers of the Year 1856. (lb.) Horn.—The Medical Profession in Prussia. Represented from ofEcial sources 2 vols. Berlin, 1851 and 1858. Lohr.—Discussion of some Questions from the Sphere of Medical Police (Henke, 3.) Bloefeld.—Further Report on Instruction in State Medicine at the Universitv of Kasan. ' Menges publishes contemplations, instigated by Tonnay's statis- tical communications concerning teeth. He considers hygiene to be tlie most useful sphere of the physician, and believes that the subordmate value of therapeutics may be proved by statistics. Yogler's paper concerns the laws by which the medical profes- sion in Nassau is governed. In that part of Germany, all medical practitioners are appointed by the state, which also pays their