66 REPORT ON THE INSTITUTES OF MEDICINE. about half an hour. Cane is more powerful than milk sugar, and still more so than grape. Acids increase the maximum influence of sugar. 4th. Milk increases both the pulsation and the carbonic acid, the latter to a maximum of nearly two grains per mniute. All the component elements have a similar effect, but new milk is much more powerful than any of its elements separately, or than any artificial combination of them. 5th. Tea and coffee increase the production of carbonic acid to the extent of from one and a half to three grains per minute. Tea is more powerful than coffee, and coffee than chicory. Cocoa is as powerful as coffee. Acid added to tea makes it more stimulating; alkalies make it more sootliing. 6th. Alkalies differ in their effect, both as regards the kind and different sample. Spirits of wine always increases the quantity of carbonic acid evolved to a maximum of less than one grain per minute. Eum commonly increases it, sometimes to one and a half grain per minute. Ale and stout increase it to upwards of one grain per minute. Sherry wine (three ounces) commonly increases it. Brandy and gin, and particularly the latter, always decrease it. Whisky varies in its effects. The inhalation of the volatile elements of Avine and spu-its, and par- ticularly of fine old port, lessen the quantity of carbomc acid, and increase the amount of vapour exhaled. The non-excitants are starch, fat, some alcohols, and coffee-leaves. The respiratory excitants are sugar, milk, the cereals potato, tea, coffee, chicory, cocoa, alcohol, rum, ale, some wines, gluten, casern, gelatin, fibrin, and albumen. ^ ,7 , x x All the "respiratory excitants" mcrease the depth, but not the rate, of respiration. Some of them produce much greater effect when a smiu dose was given, and frequently repeated, than when the whole quantity is taken-such as tea. The evolution of carbon is greater than the amount contained m the excitant. Aenold made a number of experiments on ammals (stunned by a blow on the head), in order to ascertain the movements of the thoracic muscles during respiration. The raismg of the ribs and the widening of the thorax is still possible after section of the pec- Wand sfrratus magnus muscles, wliich proves that they axe not essential to respiration. During gentle respiration the abdominal, Sove much more than the thoracic ribs. Tliis is m consequence "action of the diaplu-agm. The first rib does not mov Tt aU, except in deep inspiration. Dunng the raising of the