406 REPORT ON MIDWIFERY, ETC. less adherent and firm. In one case tlie venous tlirombosis affected all the cerebral veins. The author concludes that, owing to the rapid loss of ^^'ate^ by the blood, interference with the cii'culation of the brain and lungs is produced, and that tliis explains the rapid mode of death in such cases. The thrombus-formation in the veins of the head and elsewhere is thus favoured, and the fatal result ensues. Smith relates four cases of " cbolera infantum," with theii- autop- sies. In all the cases there was inflammation of the colon, which he considers a constant element in the disease. GuBLER states, that the aphthous patches appearing in the mouth of infants, known as muguet or thrush, and constituted by the presence of the parasitic growth Oldium albicans, appear only in those diseases accompanied by an alkaline condition of the oral cavity. Strong alkaline washes and mechanical removal of the patches are the means recommended. Beiquet considers the in- flammation of the mucous membrane of the mouth to be the first condition present in cases of this affection. Plugel recommends the use of a strong solution of common-salt in the cure of the disease. Eatjue alludes to a peculiar condition following attacks of diph- theritis in many patients, characterised by excessive prostration, paleness of tlie skin, pains in the limbs, faintness, inability to move, &c., a condition liable to have a fatal termination. Bretonneau considers this condition to be one of clironic diphtheritic poi- soning. Eetro-pharyngeal abscesses may arise, according to Bokai, fi'om idiopathic inflammation of the parts themselves, from suppuration of glands in the neigbbourhood, and from disease of the adjacent ver- tebree. Dif&culty of swallowing, alteration of the voice, stiffness of the neck, redness and swelling of the tlu-oat, are the chief signs. Twelve cases of this affection are related. Weisse bas extensively used raw meat as a remedy for diarrhoea in children, and, it is stated, with great success. The remedy appears to have become, as it were, naturalised in the tovm of St. Petersburg. Barnes relates the case of a cliild who died two days after birth. The lower part of the ileum was filled with meconium in a Very hardened state; the bowels had never acted. GUERSANT applies the actual cautery very lightly at opposite