205 rSYOIIlATRIK. and opacity of the internal membranes, with ecchymosis and hy- liertemia of the brain and serous cflfusion iji the ventricles. In the I'omainder there was serous infiltration of the brain and its mem- branes, aiul in one case of pulmonary and intestinal tuberculosis there were meningeal tubercles. In the cases of periodic mania, which perished iu the third stage, the author mostly observed opa- cities and serous infiltrations, adhesions of the inner membranes, Paccliionian granulations, more poverty of blood and softness of ihe brain, except where, after epileptic attacks, a greater degree of firmness of the cerebral substance was observable. In the asylums and hospitals for the insane in Russiii, there were treated in the year 1856, on the whole, 3616 patients, of whom 2087 (57-4-per cent.) were sent out cui-ed or improved, 388 (107 percent.) died, and 1150 remained under care. The form of the insanity in one sixth was drunkard's delirium, in four sixths mama or monomania, and in one sixth melancholy or imbecility Alcoholic intoxication was by far the most common' cause, so that in Poltowa, out of 108 patients, 95 (52 males out of 55) owed their disease to this cause. Among these patients there prevailed a special tendency to imbecility, attended with phenomena of motor jiaralysis and hallucinations of vision. From a paper by Gibolami, on the statistics of insanity in the States of the Church, it appears that there exists about one lunatic to every 2364 mhabitants. In regard to treatment it is mentioned, that a case of intermittent mania, wliich had been in no way benefited by a seton in the neck, was completely cured bv valerianate of atropine. In this form there was less apparent ad- vantage from the use of valerian and oxide of zinc. Yalerianate 0 atropine effected also considerable improvement in two cases <) epileptic mania. In two cases of lypemama stupida, sidphato 0 strychmne was of extraordinary benefit; and in a third 01. Morrhua>, with cold affusion and bitter tonics. In cases of pellagra not ye arrived at the third stage, not only the mental disoiir waS many times removed but also the dyscrasia to a very great extent by the use of vegetable juices, especially those of vine b'anche7!nd 0 ucifero^ and also by the administration of cliloride of iron chronic diarrhoea was arrested by tannin and opimn, and the' sleep r^To?" "f^^^ by hyoscyamus and morphia, ^t tt •osult 0 curing even the disease itseU" in some cases of iCpem-in e.specially the hypochondriacal. ^ypemania.