134 REPORT ON PRACTICAL MEDICJNK. matter has been isolated by Coutaeet, by steeping the bandages in cold distilled water, and expressing the liquid. This is mixed with some alcohol, heated to boiling, and filtered. After driving off the alcohol by heat, chloroform is added, which takes the blue colour from the water. The chloroform-solution being separated and evaporated, a deep-blue powder was obtained, which became green on shaking with aether, and remained blue in water, thus pro\'ing the identity of the blue and green colouring. The general opinion IS, that the colouring matter is a modification of biliary pigment. CONTRIBUTIONS TO MEDICAL DIAGNOSIS AND SYMPTOMATOLOGY. In a paper on the position and movements of the heart, Hamernik states it, as a great mystery, that the heart's systole should raise the wall of the chest instead of rather drawing it inwards. He thinks he can explain tliis by reference to liis observations on the position of the heart and the fixed point afforded it by the contraction- tendency of the lungs. If the heart is examined by touching it through the diapliragm after opening the abdominal cavity, through the pleura by removing the fifth costal cartilage, and tlu'oiigh the right layer of the anterior mediastinum from the right pleural ca\aty, the observer becomes convinced of the firm, immoveable position of the heart, fitted into the angle between the diaphragm and anterior wall of the chest. " If a small opening is made into the pericardium through the right mediastinal layer, the air rushes in with a noise, the heart loses its fixity, the sharp edge of the right ventricle starts from its recipient angular bed, the heart becomes easily moveable, takes another position and direction, while the anterior wall of the chest between the fourth and sixth cartilages (left) changes its reso- nance, and (in place of a dull) gives now a clear note." This firm, immoveable position of tlie heart only exists in young, healthy individuals; in old persons and in various morbid states it is lost. Hamernik maintains that the apex of the heart takes no part in the impulse, the tongue-shaped extremity of the upper lobe, or the anterior border of the left lung, lying between it and the anterior wall of the chest. Hence the determination of the site of the heart's impulse cannot determine the position of the heart. Hamernik describes particularly the superficial and the deep position of the heart, the chief difference between them being tlie close approximation in the former of the anterior or superior convex wall of the ventricles to the wall of the chest. The former is the position wliich exists in early Ufe, until