REPORT ON TlIK INSTITUTES OP MEDICINE. Dusch—Ueber^Commuiiiktttionen Zwischen den Herzventrikeln. [On a Communi- cation between the Ventricles.] Verb. d. naturh.-med. Ver. zu Heidelberg, vi, p. 185. Schmidt, vol. 103, p. 297. Hamernik.—Das llerz und seim Bewegung. Prag, 1858. [A contribution to the anatomy, physiology, and pathology of the Heart.] Harting.—Note sur les corpnscules sangiiins du Cryptobranchus japonicus. Verslagen en Mededeeliiigen der koninklijke Akademie van Wetenschappen. Afd. Nutunrliunde. [On the Blood-corpuscles of the Cryptobranchus Japonicus.] ^levende Deel. 1858. Amslerd., 1258. pp.368. Canst., vol. i, p. 213. Buchner und Simon.—Untersuchungen iiber Haminkrystalle und ihre gerichtlich medicinische Bedeutung. [On Blood Crystals.] Virchow's Archiv, vol. xv, p. SO. Canst., vol. 1, p. 213. Pollock.—On Granulated Blood-discs. Microscop. Journ., Oct., 1859, p. 4. Watees begins by saying that the bronchial tubes terminate in a dilatation, into which the air-sacs of the lung open. Six to twelve air-sacSj with their vessels, &c., connected with a terminal bronchial twig, constitute a lobulette. The air-sacs are somewhat elongated, and separated from each other by thin walls, without any lateral openings, covered by a number of small, shallow, cup-like depressions —eight to twenty. Blood-vessels.—Those of one lobulette do not anastomose with those of another. The radicles of the pulmonary veins issue from the periphera of the lobulettes, coUect into larger vessels, and then running in the interlobular spaces, proceed to the root of the lung. Savory agrees with Liston, Miller, and others, that a longitudinal wound in an artery appears as a slit; an oblique becomes fusiform; a transverse circular. He further says that wounds assume the same shape in the dead as in the living artery, and therefore their shape is due to a physical property—elasticity. The elasticity is, however, greatly assisted in its effects by a natural state of tension, for when the artery is dissected out, even the gaping transverse wound becomes a mere sHt. Wounds of veins assume similar shapes from the same causes. Their form is slightly modified, however, by the greater delicacy of their coats, Scott experimented on animals, and the conclusions he came to were—i. When the internal and middle coats of a healthy artery in a dead animal are ruptured, either regularly all round the vessel, or irregularly at different places, there occurs, in by far the majority of cases, no ijiversion or coiling up of the cut edges of the tunics. 2. Eupture of the inner coats of the arteries of healthy living dogs is also, for the most part, unattended with any coiling up