88 REPORT ON THE INSTITUTES OF MEDICINE. period of digestion. The livers of fasting animals, he found, weigh much less tlian those of the same species of animal killed during the time of digestion. Arnold has repeated his researches on the effect of different kinds of food on the quantity of bile. He found tliat a dog, for every two pounds of its weight, secreted in twenty-four hours— Food. Bile. 57 to 60 grammes black bread . . . 9-0 grammes. 96 grammes fresh meat ir6 „ Mixed diet lo-o „ While fasting 9-0 „ The solids in the bile in the case of the bread diet weighed 0-256 grammes. In the flesh diet 0-541 „ In the fasting 0-260 „ Arnold's experiments were made on dogs with biliary fistulse. MosLEE injected from five to ten grammes of grape-sugar into the jugular vein of a dog, and failed to detect it either in the urine or in the bile. When twenty grammes were injected into a vein it reappeared in the urine, but not in the bile. The same result was obtained after the injection of tliirty or forty grammes of sugar. It was not until from sixty to eighty grammes were injected that it reappeared in the bile. "With cane-sugar forty grammes were found sufficient to impregnate the bile. One gramme of iodide of potas- sium injected into the blood can afterwards be detected in the bile, whereas ten grammes of nitrate of potash cannot. Sulphate of copper, when taken into the stomach in the form of pill, appears in the bile in four days. Calomel, when given in doses from one and a half to tliree and a haK grammes, cannot be detected in the bile; neither is the quantity of bile secreted thereby augmented. Benzoic acid, when given by the mouth, is not afterwards found in the bile. Kemp finds that the mucus of the gall-bladder causes neutral bile to become alkaline, and give a deposit with weak acetic acid. FucHS injected bile into the veuis of animals with the intention of giving them jaundice; but it made the animals ill without pro- ducing that result. He believes, therefore, that jaundice is not the effect of a reabsorption of bile, but a non-secretion of it. -