REPORT ON THE INSTITUTES 01' MEDICINE. 98 ment that lias been obtained from it.^ lie relates some ca^es that occurred in the Edinburgh Infirmary. Pleming observed that the urine of a child, suffering from retention dui-ing an attack of remittent fever, resembled, in colour and consistence, substantial chicken-broth, was feebly acid, and had a specific gravity of io x 8-ao. It became a tremulous jelly on cooling; cleared on heating; but again became turbid when the boibng point was reached. The addition of nitric acid rendered it again transparent, and caused it to effervesce with the disengagement of ammonia. It contained no albumen. The child recovered. Hicks recommends the employment of rennet as the best means of detecting kiesteine in urine (two teaspoonfuls of rennet to tlu-ee ounces of urine). The advantages of the rennet, he says, are—ist, saving of much time; 2d, increase of the deposit; 3d, the deposit is nearly free from phosphates; and 4th, nearly free from smell. Kennet has no action on healthy, diabetic, albuminous, or phos- phatic urine. If, to the lower portion of urme containing the deposit of kiesteine, a few drops of a strong solution of ammonia be added, and heat appUed, the deposit is transformed into a semimucus mass, causing the urine to become almost tremulous. Beale says that the principal points advanced in his com- munication may be summed up as follows :—i. That the dumb- bell crystals are formed in the uriniferous tubes, while the octohedral crystals of oxalate of lime are not deposited in the kidney at all, and in many cases not until the ui-ine has left the bladder.^ 2. That under certam circumstances the dumb-bell crystals, if retamed in the tubes of the kidney, become aggregated together, and form the nucleus of a calculus. 3. The nuclei of oxalate of hme, of uric acid, of ui-ate of ammonia, phosphatic calculi, &c., may be composed of dumb-bells. 4. Dumb-bell crystals, like m-inary calcuh, occur at an periods of hfe. 5. The chemical composition of the dumb- bell is, doubtless, the same as the oxalate of Hme calculus, of which it is but an early stage, and consists of oxalate, and not oxalurate of lime. 6. As it has been shown that dumb-bells may grow into small calculi, it is very important to promote their expulsion from the kidney as soon as possible. In his paper on the kidney Beale says that liis researches are confirmatory of Virchow^s views, viz., that the vasa recta, ni many ' ' Verband. Phys. u. Mel. Gesellscb. zu Wurzburg,' Bd. v, 1854; and Erdmann's 'Journ.,'vol. xliv, part s, 1855.