DISEASES AND INJURIES OF THE BONES AND JOINTS. 317 through at the symphysis, and the halves were pulled out separately; the left condyle remained. The periosteum began to throw out new bony matter, and a new jaw was in process of formation when he left the hospital. QuiNLAN removed the whole of the upper maxilla including the floor of the orbit. It was laid bare by two incisions, one from the inner cauthus, along the side of the nose, and through the middle of the lip; the other from the same point outwards, along the lower margin of the orbit. The bone was divided with a chain-saw. Berend speaks very decidedly against opening psoas abscesses, maintaining an expectant treatment to be the best. They should only then be opened when the skin is thinned and inflamed. Iodine injections are not to be practised tiU the diseased condition of the bone has ceased to exist, and the abscess only remains. At a meeting of the Societe de Chirurgie, Paris, on the 14th June, the beneficial action of iodine directly applied to carious bone was maintained by Boinet and Vernueil. Chassaignac and Mar- jolm, on the other hand, held that in abscesses connected with canes iodine injections were quite ineffective, and the latter related the case of a cliild with psoas abscess, which he injected tmce with iodine; the second time, at the moment of injecting, the child gave a loud scream, and died two hours afterwards, from peritonitis and iodine-poisoning. At the upper third of the abscess the peritoneum had burst; the iodine had not reached the carious vertebra. BiEKETT reports five cases of fracture and dislocation of the vertebras. Bkoca reduces the various forms of Pott's disease to two heads • tuberculosis of the vertebrae without antecedent inflammation • and caries, necrosis, and arthi-itis, resulting fi-om inflammation of the bone or Its appendages. TuberciUar infiltration of the spongy tissue of bones IS extremely rare, and he had not met with any instance of it inthevertebrce; but encysted tubercular deposits in the vertebras are frequent. The difierential diagnosis between caries and tuber- culosis of the spine is carefully given. Fergusson's patient had sinuses about the shoulder-ioint duiine fourteen years. Grating could be distinctly felt on moving the humerus. The head of the bone, denuded of cartilage and much eroded, was first removed, and then some exfoliations were taken Irom the glenoid cavity. Bryant exposed the joint by a single long incision, parallel to