REPORT ON THE INSTITUTES OF MEDICINE. 6 to the consideration of the head, neck, thorax, and abdomen; and the hxtter half to that of the pelvis, back, and upper and lower extremities. Peurome's work on anatomy is merely a compilation. Budge strongly recommends, for the preservation of bodies for anatomical purposes, an injection consisting of two ounces of wood- spirit, four ounces of sulphate of zinc, and seven pounds of water. He says that this will preserve a body during a whole summer, and has the great advantage of neither destroying the colour of the muscles, injuring the knives, nor preventing the employment of coloured injections. "Ambkosoli, on the other hand, recommends the putting up of specimens in glycerin, and the preservation of entire bodies by injecting it into the vessels. The first plan is neither unknown nor new in England. The second is of little value, as it is attended with success only in cold weather. LisTEu's ' Contributions to Physiology and Pathology' consist of communications made to the Eoyal Society in 1857-8, and published in their 'Transactions.' The first is entitled "An inquiry regarding the parts of the nervous system which regulate the contraction of the arteries;" the second, "On the cutaneous pigmentary system of the frog/' and the third, " On the early stages of inflammation." The author says, that the first and second papers were read as supple- ments to the essay on the last; but that in accordance with a recommendation from the council, he extended Ids investigations into the subject of the present memoir. Some cases are mentioned to show that in the early stages of inflammation occurring in the human subject, as, for example, after the application of an ii-ritant, such as mustard, the minute vessels become abnormally loaded with red blood, the corpuscles of winch ultimately become arrested, prior to the occurrence of efPusion. He afterwards says, that the conclusions which he arnved at from studying the process on the frog apply equaUy weU to the same morbid process in man. The rouleaux, he thinks, are simply the result of the shape of the corpuscles, together with a shght degree of adhesiveness which retains them pretty firmly attached, when their flat surfaces are applied to each other. The aggregatmg ten- dency of the red discs is thus regarded as a phenomenon simdar in kind though inferior in degree, to the weU-known adliesiveness of the white corpuscles, and varies according to physical circumstances, and slight chemical actions.