PUBLIC HYGIENE. 479 towards the end of the year 1857, and made a report of the results of their labours to the Erench Minister of War, of which tliis paper is an abstract. Of the predisposing influences—(i.) Age appears to be one. Eecruits are most hable, and in proportion to their youth. Wlien the conscripts were called in at twenty-one years of age, instead of, as formerly, at eighteen years, a considerable decrease in the number affected with ophthalmia was perceived. (2.) Delicate persons are also more liable than robust ones. (3.) Stormy weather, the cold and wet winds of autumn, the heat of the sun, night-watches, and hardships, are accused by military surgeons as direct causes. (4.) Clu'onically congested conjunctivae in connection with former catarrhal or exanthematous diseases. (5.) Mercurialism and other pharmaceutic diseases. (6.) Tlie most fruitful cause is the congre- gation of many persons in barracks. (7.) The specific cause, the virus from the granulations. Bad ventilation favours the disease. The greatest number of cases occur in the months of September, July, August and June. The prophylactic and curative measures advocated are of a very stringent nature. In barracks, wards are to be set aside for those having granulations on their conjunctivae. Patients showing the shghtest degree of blenorrhoea are immediately to be sent to the hospital. These barrack-wards must be large and aiiy, and under good control, so that healthy soldiers may not come in contact with those who are affected. In the hospital the soldiers suffering from ophthalmia are again to be strictly isolated, and classified according to certain categories, particularly the degree of the disease and the amount of purulent discharge. The convalescents are to be placed in particular wards, and subjected to constant supervision. These wards must be kept clean, and ventilated with especial care. Beyond their hours of rest, the patients are not to remain in them' Every individual is to be provided with a separate towel and waslung-basin for cleansing the eyes. When the patient leaves the hospital and returns to his respective corps, he is there to be in- spected daily, and if a trace of granulation should be discovered or reappear, he is to be returned to the granulation ward Conva lescents who go home on fiu:lough are to be dismissed only after a searchmg exammation, by which the freedom of their eves from gi-anulations and every secretion has been established.