467 PUBLIC HYGIENE. d. Slmtffhterhouses. Feit.—On Public Slaughterhouses, and their Advantages before Private Slaughter- houses. (Casper, 14, 2.) The author again, and exhaustively, urges tlie reasons for which slaughterhouses ought to be public institutions. The sale of meat from diseased animals, which is so common a source of disease, would thereby be prevented. e. Feniilation, Warming, and Lighting. Kinnell—System of "Ventilation. (Med. Times, May, 58.) Tripier.—On the Ventilation and Lighting of Theatres. (Ann. d'Hyg., 19.) Guerard.—On the Explosions of the Water-apparatuses which are used for Heat- ing and Ventilating Public and Private Buildings. (Ann. d'Hyg., 18.) Kinnell adopts two concentric tubes, made of zinc, which lead from the ceiling to the roof of the house. By the inner and higher tube the contaminated air rises; through the outer tube the fresh air descends, Tripier has contrived a system of ventilation for theatres which meets many of the disadvantages to wliich the plans at present in use are liable. In Prance many private and public buildings are now being warmed Math hot water, wliich is conducted through the house by a continuous system of iron pipes. In public buildings, Duvoir's and GrouveUe's patents are most commonly used. Explosions are not of uncommon occurrence, and hence Guerard has devised certain safety-valves, which seem calculated to obviate the evil consequences of excessive tension. Leopold reports the accidental death, by coal gas, of a person forty-one years of age, who slept in a room in which a considerable escape of gas took place fi'om an ill-secured pipe. In the same house a man, a child several years old, and a baby, had all suffered from stupor, vertigo, and shortness of breath, sickness, and great prostration, produced by the gas escaping from the room in which the unfortunate man met his death. /. Water-supply. Xnolz.-On the Noxious Influence of the Wien River, and the Deficient Water- supply of Vienna. (Oesterr., No. 42.)