103 GENITO-URINAUY ORGANS. the second from i p.m. to lo p.m.; the third from lo at uight to 7 in the morning. He found that he passed the greatest amount of phospliates in the second part, the least during the night, and the medium quantity from 7 in the morning to mid-day. After muscular exercise the quantity of phosphates increased, as well as tlie amount of the urine. The specific gravity of the urine slightly diminished. On taking phosphates internally he obtained similar results to Sick. PoKCHEE says that the urine, in cases of yellow fever, contains neither urea nor uiic acid; but, on the other hand, is often albu- minous. ScHERER says, that the methods adopted by Kletzinsky for esti- mating the quantity of hypochlorites and hyposulplutes in the urine cannot be depended upon, and that consequently Kletzinsky's results are of no value. Kletztnsky says, that after taking ben- zoic acid, the urea is diminished to 24 grammes in the twenty- four hours, and the hippuric acid increased to 9-5 grammes. Leconte employed Davy's method of estimating the urea by means of the hypochlorite of soda, and has given an explauation of the process. The urea is decomposed by the hypoclilorite even in the cold, but much quicker when gentle heat is applied. C,H.NnO, • + 6(NaO, CIO) = 6NaCl + 2CO2 + 7HO + 2N. -^22 The carbonic acid remains in solution, and the nitrogen is set free. Although o-io gram, urea ought to yield 37 c.c. of nitrogen, yet Leconte never obtained more than 34 c.c. Leconte, as Scherer justly remarks, has forgotten to mention that Davy proposed and published the above method of estimating urea some years ago. _ GiGOX states that healthy urine always contains a small quan- tity of albumen, and that its presence has been hitherto over- looked, m consequence of the tests employed for its detection not being sufficiently delicate. Becquekel replies that chloroform the agent used by Gigon for the detection of the albumen in the mine IS a test not to be depended on, and that the precipitate obtained by It is composed of mucus and organic matter, there being not a trace of albumen in normal urine. Gigon again repeated his expe- nments more carefully, and in the above-mentioned paper shows that his first conclusions are correct, and that Becquerel errs in sup- posing that pyrophosphoric acid is a more delicate test for albumen than chloroform. On the contrary, he says that in delicacy it 13 not supenor either to nitric acid or tincture of galls. Moreover