329 DISEASES AND WOUNDS OF THE EYE, ETC. Spnptoms.—Noizet follows Jiiger's division into three stages. I St. The eyes soon tire; and after looking at anything for a little while lachrymation occurs^ and a sensation of tightness in the eye- ball is felt. Objects are distinctly seen. By far the majority of patients are shortsighted. The optic entrance embraced by a white crescent, ad. Myopia notably increased. The elongation of the antero-posterior axis is apparent when the eye is turned strongly inwards towards the nose. The white crescent enlarges at its con- vex border. The macula lutea is yet intact. Looking at near objects, even with a concave lens, is painful. 3d. The secondary phenomena make their appearance. These are varying dimness of vision; great sensitiveness to light; dark spots and clouds; pupil sluggish and dilated; anterior chamber large. Staphyloma i^oster'ms is a common disease. It occurs most fre- quently in young persons. Nature.—Widely different opinions are held. Sichel regards it as an inflammation of the choroid. Jtiger assumes an intra-uteriue sclerotitis as the cause. Arlt mechanical distension by muscular pressui-e. Graefe designates it sclero-choroideitis post. Noizet retains the name originally given it by Scarpa, Staph, post., which involves no theory. Treatment.—{^^xthA avoidance of all occupation which demands efforts of accommodation, attention to the general health, and local abstraction of blood. Jagee understands by glaucoma that morbid state of the eye in which, with or without inflammation, in addition to the symptoms recognisable by tlie unaided eye, excavation of the optic nerve exists. Jilger considers the arterial pulse of little value, because it is not in direct proportion to the degree of tension of the globe and occurs in other diseases. The excavation of the entrance of'the optic nerve cannot be dependent on intraocular pressui-e for Die following reasons, i. It frequently occurs without increased intraocular pressure. 2. It does not take place in other iuflam matory and other processes which are attended with increased ten sion. 3. It does not lessen after iridectomy, whilst other staphy lomata recede after this operation. The results obtained bv jk-er coincide with those by Graefe, only he does not give quite as favor- able a prognosis in acute glaucoma. HiLDiGE relates that the haemorrhage began dming vomiting an