42 RKPOllT ON THE INSTITUTKS OK MEDICINE. antidotes; and, secondly, to keep the patient alive until the poison is eliminated by the excretions. All the excretions ought, therefore, to be encouraged—sweating by heat, evacuation of the bowels by purgatives, and the removal of the urine by passage of the catheter. Bern^uid's lectures on the' nervous system fill two octavo volumes, of above five hundi'ed pages each. In the first volume he considers the general property of the nerves and nerve-centres, reviews the various theories regarding reflex action, indicates the presence of reflex sensibility, and explains the electrical properties of the nerves, muscles, and skin. While speaking of the effects of a continuous galvanic current upon nerves, he says, that if the current be made to pass centrifugally (that is, by placing the positive pole next to the nerve-centre), the nerve Avill rapidly lose the property of being excited by the electricity. At first sight this might appear to arise from some disorganization of the nerve- elements. Such, however, is not the case; the property of the nerve is enfeebled, and exhausted, but not destroyed; for, on changing the direction of the current by merely reversing the position of the poles, in a very short time the stimulus applied to the nerve will call forth as energetic muscular contraction as before. It has been long known, that when a feeble current is passed through a nerve, the muscular contraction which it induces might manifest itseK in a variety of ways. At one time the contraction takes place when the current begins, at another time when it is arrested; and again, there occurs a contraction at both the opening and the closing of the galvanic circuit—none, however, during its continuance. Now, if the nerve be first exhausted, it will be found, that on applying to it a direct current (that is, from the centre to the circumference),, contraction only occm-s when the stumulus begins, not during its apphcation or at the moment of its removal. Whereas, if the indirect current be applied (from the circumference to the centre), no contraction takes place except at the moment of its interruption. It has been still fui-ther observed, that these results vary when the stimulus is applied to difterent parts of the same nerve. Thus, it is found tliat, on applying the galvanism close to the divided end of the nerve, contraction occurs, as has just been said, at the moment of its application in the case of the direct, at the moment of its arrest in that of the indirect, current, while if the stimulus be applied near to the periphery of the