REPORT ON LEGAL MEDICINE, ETC. 456 which floated on water; wlien the vesicles filled wiili gas were punctured, an the lungs slightly pressed, they sank again. Difl"crenco from lungs wiiich have breathed. Tlicre were also present in these lungs the peculiar ecchjmoses which form in utero. Maschka.—(Casper, 13, 2.) New-born Child, without signs of having breathed; several marks, which were interpreted as indicating the existence of non- breathing life having been terminated by violent measures. ■ (Deutsche, 12, 2.) New-born Child, found dead in a Dung-pit. Interrup- tion of breathing caused death; cause of interruption not ascertained. Casper.—(Loc. cit., ii.) Case 91. Disputed Criminal Abortion. 92. Doubtful Abortion after ill-treatment. 93. Whether mechanical attempts at Abortion have been made, and whether St. — has borne repeatedly ? 94—96. Three Accu- sations against Medical Practitioners of Criminal Abortion. 97. Black Soap, Pepper and Savin used as Abortive Remedies. 99. Pulv. Jalap, and Sapo Jalap, used as Abortive Remedies. 100. Redstone and Brandy used as Abor- tive Remedies. loi. A Midwife accused of repeated Criminal Abortions. Duncan replies to some criticisms which were made by the editor of the ' Medical Times and Gazette/ upon his evidence for the de- fence in Eeid^s trial. Taedieu gives descriptions of the various modes by which cri- minal abortion is produced^ and the means by which attempts at abortion^ and their consequences^ may be distinguished from natural disease. Powdered savin can sometimes produce abortion, but it never causes symptoms of poisoning. Beoughton reports a case of criminal abortion, in the fifth month of pregnancy, of a woman fifty years of age. After death, the pointed piece of wood, by which tliis crime is usually accomplished in India, Avas found stiU impaled in the uterus. Dauie^" believes that safeon and green soap can, under certain conditions, have an abortive action. Williamson draws the attention of observers to the condition of the umbilical cord in cases of infanticide, as it may so strangle the chihVs neck as to make respiration impossible. BoHM makes some observations on the bony nucleus in the thigh of children, and infers the age of the foetus from its absence or size. His conclusions are based upon 186 observations, of which forty are by himself. VoGLER gives a case in M'hich the lungs of a child, which had not breathed, floated. It is reported that the mid\vife "blew air into the child, wliosc face Avas still covered by the fcetal mem- branes," so that it is not clear whetlier she only endeavoured uusuccessfully to do so, or whether she partially succeeded.