REPORT ON THK INSTITUTKS OF MEDICINE. the anatomical connexion of the nei-ves with the various tissues, glands, and other organs of the body. The author, iu liis introduc- tory remarks, says, that he purposes to consider the peculiar nerve- structures in the organs of special sense, of which the retina forms the highest member. A peculiar differentiation prevails amongst them, corresponding to the nature of the stimuh wliich act upon them, and this he intends specially to consider. Schiff's treatise on the nervous system contains much original matter. Wliile speaking of the degeneration of the peri- pheral part of a cut nerve, he says that the vascular supply has a very great influence upon it, as the following experiment shows. He exposed the sciatic nerve of a cat, drew the upper end out of the pelvis, and laid it in the bottom of the wound. On examining the central end three or four weeks afterwards, it was not found to have undergone any degeneration, whereas the lower portion of the same nerve had, in several parts, become changed in structure. Schiff says that wounds in the nerves of warm-blooded animals heal very rapidly, and if the nerve is cleanly cut tlirough, reunion wiU take place in a few days. The power of sensation returns in those cases sooner than the power of motion, the difference in time being as eight to fifteen. If a sensory and a motory nerve be divided at the same time—example, the infra-orbital and the facial, or the lingual and hypoglossal—it will be found that the sensory unites and regains its function before the motory. Scliiff could not satisfy himself as to the regeneration of ganglia. In some favorable cases he succeeded in making sensory unite with motory fibres, but no physiological effect was thereby obtained. The difficulty experienced in causing motory to unite with sensory fibres shows that there must be an important difference in the con- stitution of the two kinds of nerves. Heidenhain describes and has employed a little hammer to excite nervous action. The instrument is so arranged as to give a series of gentle blows on the nerve. The effect thus produced is fouud to be similar to that of galvanism. Kolliker, in reply to Ordenstein, says that a nerve, after it has been dried and has lost its power of conducting a galvanic current, can be restored to life again,—by immersing it in water for a short time. Birkner estimated the quantity of water present in difl'erent nerves. He fouud in the sciatics of a decapitated woman aged thirty, from 68-2 to 72*5 per