DISEASES AFFECTING THE GENERAL SYSTEM. 161 group, which " require in the human body, not only a subject for their action, but conditions for their growth and development." He remarks, that in well-drained houses, the j)ropagation of the disease by infection is much less likely to occur, because the intestinal discharges are at once removed and swept away in the sewers. It is in their intestinal excretions that the chief virulence, in his opinion, exists. Gaiedxer, in clinical notes on fever, admitting fully the distinct- ness of typhus, and enteric or typhoid fever, remarks on the great comparative rarity during late years of typhus, as, indeed, of all kinds of fever. During the twelve years preceding 1849, the admissions of fever cases to the Royal Infirmary were in four years below 1000, in three between 1000 and 2000, in two between 2000 and 3000, in two more between 3000 and 4000, and in one they amounted to 4693. The immense majority of these cases were either t}T3hus or relapsing fever. During the four years following 1849, average number of cases of epidemic fever was from 530 to 960 a year. In 1854 the number of cases admitted diminished to between 100 and 300, and it has never since risen above the latter of these numbers. Dr. Gairdner's experience of the fever cases admitted during the last four years has led him to the following conclusions as to the differences of character manifested between them and those of previous years, (i.) The relapsing fever, or synocha, which formed so large a part of the epidemics of 1843-4 and 1847-8, has absolutely disappeared. (2.) Typhus fever has become less fatal to those attacked, than it was ten years ago. Among Dr. Gairdner's cases the mortality has been about one in fifteen; while in the 1848-9 epidemic it is stated by Dr. Eobertson as nearly one in four, or excluding all accidental disturbing causes, one in five. (3.) The eruption and course of typhus fever have been modified. The eruption has been peculiar in the earliness of its appearance and disappearance. The course in respect of the earlier occurrence of crisis:—This crisis is rarely rapid or sudden, usuaUy extending over two or three days, and often barely appreciable till it has been forty-eight hours or more in progress. Nor is it a crisis by sweating, or by any other form of discharge, in the majority of mstances. On the contrary, profuse sweating is almost always non- cntical and injurious; and the same may be said of diarrhea and other so-called 'critical' discharges. In aU these respects, to say nothing of the eruption, typhus fever diflers greatly from relapsing 11