DISEASES OE CHILDREN. 407 ])oiiits around tlie anus for the cm-e of prolapsus ani in children. Tiiis treatment is only had recourse to when others fail. IV. DISEASES OP THE KIDNEYS AND GENEUATIVE OEGANS. Bierbaum.—Ki-ankheiten der Harn- und Geschlechtsorgane. [Diseases of the Kidneys and Sexual Organs.] Journ. fiir Kinderk., 7—10, 1858. (Sch., i, 67.) Anizon.—On the Action of Sulphate of Qumine in Albuminuria after Scarlet Fever. Gaz. Hebd., vi, 7, 1859. (Sch., 9, 333.) Arnold.—Ueber die Nierenaffektionen in Begleitung des Scharlachprocesses. [On the Renal Affections associated with Scarlet Fever.] Memorab. a. d. Praxis iv, 3, 1859- (Sch., 7, 35.) Bercioux.—On the use of Belladonna in the treatment of Involuntary Micturition in Children. Gaz. Hehd., v, 25, 28, 30, 1858. (Sch., 4, 44.) Destouches.—De I'incontinence d'uriue essentielle chez les enfants. [Inconti- nence of Uiine in Children.] Paris, 1858. (Canst., iv, 454.) Plimez.—Ueber die Mittel gegen das nachtliche Bettpissen und namentlich iiber eine raechanische Einwirkung bei Knaben. [On a Mechanical Treatment of Nocturnal Incontinence of Urine in Boys.] J. f. Kinderk., 1858, i and 2. (Canst., iv, 454.) BiEEBAUM states that the anuria observed in infants, some- times of from twelve to twenty-foui- hours' dm-ation, is due, not to any special diseased condition of the kidney, but to insufficient fluidity of the nourishment taken. The dymria observed is due to the same cause, and is easily remedied by giving more fluid or by the use of baths. Enaresis nocturm is partly a bad habit, and in part an actual disease. It is intermittent in character, is more often seen in scrofu- lous cluldren or those of arthritic tendency, and dui-ing the fii-st den- tition; it seldom continues till puberty arrives, but if it does not then cease, is often persistent. The author disapproves of the applica- tion of a ligature to the penis, the method of treatment recom^ nicnc ed by Pluviez. The most efficacious treatment is the rousing he child for the purpose of evacuating the bladder in the middle of he night, and _gi-adually later and later during tliis period, in order to accustom this viscus to retain a larger quantity of fluid iVNizox believes that the tubuli m-iniferi are the seat of the change which resiilts m the production of albuminuria after scarlet lever and as quimnc all passes olT by the urine, it is a medicine pecuharly adapted to modify favorably the interior of the tubuli. Arnold gives the result of examinations of the urine in 37 cases of