84 REPORT ON THE INSTITUTES 01' MEDICINE. Zellweger. — Untcrsuclningcn ueber die Nebennieren. [On tlie Supra-renal Capsules.] Franenfeld, 1858. Canst., p. 74- Fomeris -Sur les fonclions du corps thyi&id. [On the Function of the Thyroid Glami.] (Gaz. M6d. Sardi., 1858, No. 12, p. 89. Gaz. llebdoin., No. 41, Friedleben —Die Physiologic der Thymusdruse in Gesundheit, und Krankheit. [On the Pliysiology of the Thymus Gland.] Frankfurt, 1858. Henle and Meissiier, p. 257. Scherer-Ueber das Vorkommen des Guanins in der Pancreas-Druse des Ochen. [On the Presence of Guanin in the Pancreas of the Ox.] Verha.idl. der kgl. bayer. Akademie der Wissenschaften und Virchow's Arch., 1859. Canst., vol. i, p. 168. . Soberer -Xanthicoxyd, ein normaler Bestandlheil des thier. Organ. [Xanth.c Oxide a normal constituent of the Animal Body.] Sarkin u. Hypox. identisch. Liebg. Annal., vol.cvii, p. 314- Canst., p. 168. Strecker -Ueber das Sarkin. [On Sarkin.] Liebig's Annal., vol. cviii, p. 129. Strecker —Ueber die Verwandlung des Guanins in Xauthin. [On the Trans- formation of Guanin into Xanthic Oxide.] Liebig's Annal., vol. cvui, p. 141- Canst., p. 168. M'DoNNELL endeavours to give a simple and, at the same time, faithful account of the history and present condition of our know- ledge of the origin of sugar, and the changes it is liable to m the ammal economy. The paper, which occupies twenty-seven pages, will be found, he believes, of peculiar value to those whose multi- farious professional occupations prevent them from searching out for themselves, from the immense mass of material which has during the last few years accumulated on this subject, what is substantiaUy true, and what is incorrect. . , • i + „ Paty says, that the sugar formed m the liver is due to a j^.*^- norten occurrence, and that during hfe there is a force capable of overcoming the chemical tendency to a saccharme metamorphosis^ Division of the spinal cord, as high up as between the second and third cervical vertebra, does not produce saccharine urme. Alter pdson?ng an animal by strychnine, the circulation being mamtained by artificial respiration, the urine becomes ^^^ongly sacchanne According to the author's views, it would appear that the meduUa oblongata is the centre of the force preventing he formation 0 sugar in the living animal. Division of the cervical sjnnpathetic 0 of the ascending branches of the superior thoracic ganghon on bo h ^ides of the neck, occasions an intensely marked diabetes, ihc tZtes is still more marked after removal of the superior cervical ^%tisbn of the sympathetic in the chest he several times found