RErORT ON PRACTICAL MEDICINE. 158 stantly fntal. Tlio skin was consiantly (lie scat of pigment deposit in diU'ereiit degrees, increasing with the duration of tlie disease, bin present even during the prodromata. ^Vlien dropsy set in, it be- came paler. Tlie cachexia did not always yield witli the fever, bul sonTctinics increased in spite of favorable e.\.ternal conditions; its cause did not appear to be simply poverty of blood, but rather it should be regarded as the result of disturbances which are certainly present during the fever, but precede and surnve it, and, independ- ently of it, interfere with normal nutrition. These disturbances pro- bably consist in the destruction of the cell-constituents of tlie blood in the spleen. In an appendix, Duchelc states that 8 per cent, of the liospital patients at Lemberg suffered from tuberculous disease, althoug-li ague was endemic iu tlie vicinity. Diseases of the nervous system were very rare. SoHUAMM, in recording his experience of " genuine intermittent" fever at Bodenwohr, in the Upper Palatinate, mentions that iu the year 1856 the cold stage was often uncommonly short, while an abundant sAveat came on early, attended with consuming heat; the sweat gave no relief, and was attended mth. an eruption of shingles of varying iutensitj^, according to its degree, but always abundant, wliicli occupied the abdomen and forearms, and appeared to bo rather the cause than the consequence of the sweat. The following conclusions are deducible from the tables of case? of diphtheria pubhshed in the ' British Medical Jourual.' (i.) Sex does not appear to influence the liability. (3.) Age is positively influential, childhood and early youth being far more often attacked than more advanced age. (3.) Hygienic conditions, occupation, food, and clothing, purity or impurity of air have not been shown to have much efi^ect, the disease having occurred in many instances where the surrounding circumstances were favorable. (4.) Me- teorology. Our knowledge on this head extends no furtlier than that the disease has prevailed during the most opposite states of tlic weather. (5.) Contagiousness, It appears that, though the disease may be communicated in this way sometimes, this is not the usual mode by which it spreads. (6.) Scarlathia. The evidence is entirely negative as to any connexion between the two diseases. (7.) The symptoms, when first seen, have usually been those of depression, accompanied by dysphagia, and generally external swelling of tlie neck, either from adema or enlarged glands. Eigors and feverisli- ness were only occasionally present. Sometimes the disease com-