455 CRIMINAL ABORTION, ETC. is unfouucled; and consequently that Greenwood is now suffering unjustly the highest penalty which the law has in store for man- slaughter, namely, penal servitude for life. VII. CRIMINAL ABORTION j DOUBTFUL CAUSES OiP DEATH 01' NEW-BORN CHILDREN ; INFANTICIDE. Duncan.—On a Criticism of William Reid's Trial for Murder and Abortion. (Edinb., Feb., 700.) Tardieu.—New Medico-legal Studies on Abortion. (Ann. d'Hyg., July 19, 1858.) BroughtOn.—Account of a Case in which Impalement of the Uterus occurred iu the production of Criminal Abortion. (Transact, of the Bombay Med. and Surg-, Soc, 1857.) Darien.—Are Green Soap and Saffron Abortive Remedies ? (Casper, 13, i.) Maschka.—(Loc. cit., Prag. 2.) Three Criminal Abortions attempted; the first with some concentrated sulphuric acid, the second with a mixture of decoc- tions of innocuous or medicinal herbs, the third by rubbing with hog's lard. Williamson,—The Condition of the Lung not invariably to be depended on as a proof that the Infant has been born alive. (Edinb., Feb., 1858.) Bohm.—On the Forensic Importance of the Bony Nucleus in the Lower Epiphysis of the Thigh-bone in New-born Children. (Casper, 14, i.) Vogler.—The Credit of the Hydrostatic Test for the Lungs again rising. (Preussen, 1. 34-) Ancelot.—Medico-legal Considerations of the Signs of Life in New-born Infants. (Gaz. Hop., 1857, No. 147.) Oscar von Leupoldt.—On the Lung-test. Diss. Berlin, 1858. Zeissing.—Theory: A New-born Child which does not breathe is yet alive. Prac- tice : A New-born Cliild which does not breathe is not alive. (Casper, 13, 2.) Lowenhardt.—Critical Communications, &c. Prenzluu, 1858. 3. Are Life and Breathing identical in Courts of Law ? A Contribution to the Doctrine of Infanticide, p. 121. Arata.—On Tying the Umbilical Cord in its Medico-legal Relations. Effects of different Ligatures upon tlie Cord. In what cases can a Ligatured Cord be found without the Ligature ? Differences by which a Ligature put on after Death can be distinguished by one applied during Life. (Lo Sperimentale No 7. Juglio, 1858.) ' Lowe.—Opinions on the Age of a Cliild of A. M. in R. (Casper, 14.) Behr.-Fatal Lesion occurring in a Child in Utero, by Rupture of a Blood-vessel and Extravasation. (Henke, 47, Supplement.) Maschka.-(Loc. cit. Henke, 38, i.) 4. New-born Child, found in a putrid state probably Sullborn. Alleged Stillborn Child, hid in aheap of branches; signs of the child having breathed; deficient Post-mortem Examination; uncertain opinion. (PraS. 2 and 3.) 5. Post-mortem Examinations of Children. In a case in which the child had breathed during two or three days, the stomach continued to stand perpendicularly. A child, born dead and putrid, contained lungs