DISEASES OF WOMEN. 369 the imperfectly formed cornu is frequently mistaken for tubal preg- nancy. TuppERT records a case of congenital closure of the os uteri. The woman was twenty-nine years old, and had never menstruated. By means of a trocar, five ounces of fluid were evacuated from the uterus, but the operation was performed three times before the opening was made complete. Finally, she became pregnant. According to Aran's researches, the uterus is held in its place by the utero-sacral, the broad, and the round ligaments, and by the bladder and vagina; the junction of the body with the cervix of the uterus is a fixed point—"axe de suspension," about which the different movements of the organ occur. Of thirty-seven women, m seven tenths of those under twenty-nine years old, the uterus was anteflexed; of women above that age, only one fifth. Anteflexion was more often present when pregnancy had not occurred. BoxNET proposes deep cauterization of the upper and back part of the vagina with Vienna paste and chloride of zinc, so as to obli- terate the recto-uterine fossa, for the cure of retroflexions of the uterus. In three cases the excessive sufferings of the patients were removed, m a fourth the result was not so satisfactory. A case is recorded by Schultze, in which a pessary of wood was retamed in the vagina for thirty years. Its extraction was very difficult. Some remarks foUow on the best form of pessary to be used in cases of prolapsus. Mayee gives statistics referring to 300 cases of prolapsus of the uterus and vagina which occurred in the practice of his father In 203 cases Zwank's pessary was used, and in 179 with consider- able benefit. It IS necessary, in order that good results maybe obtained from the use of this instrument, to carefully adjust its size to the width and direction of the pubic arch. Mayer reports four cases, in which he amputated the .cervix uteri for hypertrophy of this part of the uterus. HuGuiER, in an elaborate memoir on the subject of prolapsus uten, takes up a position widely antagonistic to previous ideas, con- tending hat what IS usually considered to be prolapsus is, in most cases, only hypertrophy and elongation of the cervical part of the uterus of which there are two varieties, viz., the sub- and supra- vaginal The author recommends amputation of the cervix uteri when the disease gives rise to serious symptoms, and we are certain that medical and other means are inefficient. 24