DIGESTION, 71 incomplete, but discernible tlirough a change in the odour of the mixture. The action is generally increased by the addition of a small quantity of alkali, diminished by the addition of a few drops of acid. He found, too, that the same infusion which, made from a perfectly fresh pancreas, has no action, energetically dissolves coagulated albumen in its subsequent stages of putrefaction. Although he admits that the action of the pancreatic solution in digesting albumen is " quite specific" to the organ, and is absent from the saHvary glands, he yet doubts that it dissolves albumen in the hving body. It may be well to remark that Brinton does not expressly state whether the specimens of pancreas he used were taken from animals kiUed during digestion or fasting. And that this is a point of great importance in deciding the question, for, as Corvisart has shown, the juice of the pancreas from the fasting animal has little or no power over coagulated albumen. Pu>rKE, again, who operated much in the same way as Brinton, came to the conclusion that pancreatic juice has in reality the power of transforming albumen into peptone. Beuaud and Colin extirpated the pancreas from four young dogs, two pigs, a goose, and a duck; they aU grew and Hved to be adults. From their experiments Berard and Colin conclude that the pancreas is not essential to the absorption bf fatty matters ScHUH observed the movements of the soft palate during speaking and swallowing on a woman, set. 36, who had part of the left cheek removed by operation on account of disease. TuoussEAu's report on the effects of ligatui-e of the oesophagus is tavorable to the opimon expressed by mostly aU writers on the sub- •''"t..;* ^^'^^^i^t ligature of the oesophagus is invariably fatal. 2. it the ligature be removed witliin twenty-eight hours, the animal may recover. 3. In the latter case, a fistulous opening in the neck IS not unfrequently formed. 4. Pasting animals live longer than those operated on with a full stomach. In the establishment of artificial gastric fistulse, Blondlot pro- poses to replace the canula by means of a gutta-percha, cork or ivory stopper, introduced by the mouth, and drawn into the wound by means of a string. In his recent researches on digestion, he behevcs that he has been able to confirm his previously ^ub! hshed opimon regarding the acidity of the gastric juice. It depends, he thinks, on the presence of the acid phosphate of lime (PoAO)!