NlillYOUS SYSTEM. 189 Fuller has hitely observed a reuiarkable circumstance connected Avith the administration of belladonna, viz., that childi-en can tolerate much larger doses than adults; it seems that a much larger dose than is usually prescribed is well borne, from the first, by children of tender years, and that the dose may be safely increased, rapidly, but gradually. One girl, set. lo, took 70 grains of good extract daily, and a total amount of 1019 grains in twenty-six days; wliile another, set. 14, took 37 grains of atropine in eighteen days. This extraordinary tolerance, on further research, did not appear to depend on the existence of chorea, as in the above cases, seeing that other chddi-en took similar doses witliout experiencing any remark- able effects. The chorea w as not benefited by it so much as might be expected. The dx-ug was found in abundance in the f^ces and urine, proving that it was not decomposed in tlie alimentary canal, nor altogetlier uuabsorbed into the blood. Puller suggests the administration of belladonna in larger doses than are usually given ni pertussis, epilepsy, and other spasmodic affections. Levick, of Philadelphia, in some remarks upon sunstroke, compares tlie post-mortem condition in this disease with that observed in typhus, and finds, moreover, an " astonishing identity in the symp- toras preseqied during life." He thinks, " these facts indicate that there ism sunstroke, as there is in typlius fever, a poisoned condition of the blood, and that it is to this that we are to refer the various morbid phenomena of the disease, an explanation wliich has also Ijecn given m cases of death from lightning. I cannot, however c ivest my imnd of the belief that in sunstroke this imnatm-al con- i ition of the blood is a secondary affection, not the primary one • tl>at there is, in the first place, an exhaustion or depression of the nerve-forces wliich regulate nutrition, respiration, circulation, and the other acts of organic life." In the way of treatment, he coun- sels cold effusion, at nitervals, over head, chest, and epi^-astrium iHitil consciousness and tlie power of swallowing return. If how^ ever, the depression be extreme, tlie cold afliision must be used antmus y or forborne. In the same condition ice to the liead -i.^t not l)e applied indiscriminately. In some cases oil of tur- P|;.. ine may be of service, both by the mouth and rectum. Prictions "( he surface of t le body with ice have proved advantageous. In a ],aper entitled 'Affections of the Spinal Column ' by P.ckikd .'ttarks of rlieumatism, which were succeeded in the fall of 1857 by