UEPOllT ON PRACTICAL MEDICINE. 166 uo doubt of that alteration in the type of disease, observed since the year 1833, in England. Prom that date there has been a departure from the old sthenic type, and tliis has been more pronounced the last few years, until at length a genuine sthenic form of illness is almost, if not quite, unknown amongst us. We have instead low types of inflammation, low forms of cutaneous diseases, low types of fever, having more and more a tendency to the remittent form ; and a very marked increase in localities where it was before ahnost mi- knowu, and where no known local causes have arisen to occasion it, of intermittent fever. AYhat was before a mere chill, a slight cold, tlu-own oS with the first reaction, becomes now an attack of ague." BoGGE, of Newthorpe, gives a report of twenty-two cases of diph- theria, occui-ring for the most part in the village of Kimberley, Notts. The soil is ferruginous and sandy, but the sanitary arrange- ments generally very defective. All the patients were childi-en, fi-om four- to nine years of age, and sufficiently fed. Measles prevaUed ex- tensively at the same time as diphtheria, and the two diseases often attacked simultaneously, or in succession, the measles generally taking the lead. A table gives the foUomng particulars : 12 females to 10 males; 4 cases of simple diphtheria, 8 of croupal, 10 of malig- nant ; total number of deaths, 7 ; average duration of fatal cases, 6i days; longest period, 12; shortest, 53 9 cases were idiopatluc with 6 deaths; 13 occim-ed in connection with measles, with i death; ot the idiopatluc cases, 7 were malignant, and 2 croupal. MuECHisoK has examined the question as to the possibility of the coexistence in the human system of two or more disease, which are supposed to originate from specific morbid poisons. (a) As respects the coexistence of variola and scarlatina, he quote- examples of the primary appearance of scarlatina, of the simultaneou^ manifestation of the two diseases, and of the primary appearance u variola. At the Smallpox Hospital, seven cases have been observed by Mr. Marson in which uneciuivocal scarlatina supervened on variola {b) Of the coexistence of variola and rubc-ola, he gives ten illustrations, quoted from various authors, (c, d, e) Variola has been observed coexisting with erysipelas, pertussis, and varicella (f) Numerous cases are recorded of the coexistence of variola ami vaccinia, the variola being modified in some cases, but not m aU. („ h i and k) Vaccinia may coexist with scarlet-fcver, rubeola peWssis, and varicella. {I and m) llubeola and pertussis may exjs Itlher, and even variola, rubeola, and pertussis, (n) In Pans, the