144 RKPORT ON PRACTICAL MEDICINE. the liver and digestion are considerably at fault. The disease termed rheumatic gout he looks upon as diverse both from gout and rheumatism, and states that much injury is frequently produced by treatment directed by a wrong view of the nature of tiie case^ and especially from its being confounded with gout or rheumatism. The great object is to strengthen and give tone to the system, and to promote the due assimilation of the food. The appendix contains some valuable information as to the tests for urea, the influence of colcliicum, the composition and influence of various mineral ■waters. Althaus, in Chapter i, treats of the forms of electricity; Chapter II, of electro-physiology; Chapter iii, of medical electric appara- tus, and its application; Chapter iv, of electricity as a means of diagnosis; Chapter v, of electro-therapeutics. The information under the several heads is very complete, but we have not space ta attempt any analysis. In a paper on the uses of bleeding in diseases, Maekhaji maintains the following thesis: " That as regards internal inflam- mations, venesection is of service, not tlirough any direct mfluence wliich it exercises over the inflammatory process, but in consequence of its removing certain of the secondary consequences which arise accidentally out of the inflammation; that venesection, in fact, acts in internal inflammations as it acts in all other diseased condi- tions in which it is of service, viz., by relieving the oppressed and congested condition of the heart which has arisen as their conse- quence ; and that the direct abstraction of blood is of service in those internal inflammations in which anatomy shows us that it is possible." A paper by Althaus on the action of the electric current upon the motor nerves and muscles may be referred to with advantage, but it is impossible to abstract it with advantage. Hunter aflirms that to produce an immediate or a decided narcotic effect in any case, no method is more effectual than the hypodermic injection of the cellular tissue. The proceed- ing is the same as in Dr. Alexander Wood's treatment of neu- ralgia. Hardy records several cases of purpura hsemorrhagica treated satisfactorily by tincture of larch bark. Dose of tincture, from 5ss to 5iij. The addition of Bismuthi Subnitras to copaiba and cubebs ob-