DISEASES OF CHILDRKN. 11 and its removal safely accomplished. In Luschka's case of In groma cysticimi perineale, a very large cyst was attached to the loM-er part of the body, whereby the labour was so protracted that the child died. The pelvis was filled with cysts, varying in size. There were also found within the tmnom- the remains of a fcctus, viz., bones, intestines, &c. The case Avas one, not of simple hygroma cysticum, but a combination of the same with inclusion of a foetus. Lenhossek describes a case in which the medulla spinalis was double in a female fcctus, born dead at six months old. In Tlogei/s case a man labouring under syphilis was foimd to have a double testicle on eacli side. The testicles were arranged on each side one above the other, the lower one being on both sides the larger. In Charcoi-'s case a woman M'as delivered of an eight months' cliild, which survived its birth half an hour only. The spleen was found ruptured, and blood effused into the abdomen. The rupture appeared to be due to one of two falls which the patient had sustained, the first one month, and the second a fortnight, before deliver3^ In a case of congenital ascites related by Yiuchoav, the mother had prcAdously given birth to six chilch-en, tlu-ee of which had died of ascites when young. In Smallman's case the abdomen was greatly enlarged, and in the centre of the liver was a large cyst, covered, not completely, by skm anteriorly. The child lived ten minutes after birth. '' " Clay relates two cases, in each of which the foetus was oedema- tons and dead. In one case the placenta was soft, thickened, ami partly covered with so-called lymph ; in the other case the placenta was hypertrophied. WiDEEHOFEE rccords a case of ileus and death in an infant pro- duced by a cyst in the wall of the lower end of the ileum, so situated as to prevent faecal matters passing into the colon. BiLLi reports the case of a woman who suffered in the ein-hth month of her pregnancy from Hvely aud painful movements of^'tho fcctus, which suddenly and finally ceased after eight days Delivery took place, after two weeks, of a dead child. The cord was very mucli twisted and rendered impervious. The cerebellum of the itttus was smaller on one side than on the other. Tlie author sun poses that this unequal development of the cerebellmn caused^L niovoments of the child, as in animals in which one side of the cerebellum has boon removed, and that these rotatory movements, 27