246 REPORT ON PRACTICAL MEDICINE. about tlu-ee iuclies above the ctecuin, was so twisted upon its own axis as to obstruct the canal. Tlie large intestine was shrunk to the size of the little finger. The patient was a new-born child; death ensued forty hours after birth. Greenish matter, like meco- nium, had been vomited. Leaued, having found pepsin much less efficient than he had hoped from the favorable reports made of it, has examined its actual digestive power, and affirms that, instead of a fifteen-grain dose being adequate to digest a mutton chop, nineteen times that quan- tity would be requisite. The dose just mentioned can only be considered equivalent to five drachms of gastric juice. Klob records a case in which fibroid thickening of the sub- mucous tissue of the stomach was found after death. The mucous coat was thinned, sliiny, adherent to the subjacent layers; its glands had disappeared; it consisted chiefly of a dense connective tissue. The submucous coat was from two to three lines thick, tendinous, and milk-white, very de use and tough. The muscular coat was from three to four lines thick, stiff", traversed by whitish septa. The patient, a male, had suffered with bad digestion. Oppolzer enumerates the following conditions of the abdominal organs as causative of ascites, not taking into consideration hydrse- mia and the effect of cardiac and pidmonary disease: (i.) Chrome inflammations of the peritoneum, set up often by moveable tumours, as ovarian, &c. (a.) Thickening of the subserous peritoneal areolar tissue, in which the veins are compressed by the exudation between the layers of the mesentery, and the intestines drawn backwards towards the vertebral column, so that they cannot float up. Other results are icterus, from pressure on the ductus communis cole- dochus, obstinate constipation, from contraction of the rectum o^ shortening of the mesocolon, and wasting of the ovaries. (3.) Tuberculosis of the peritoneum. (4.) Cancer of peritoneum. (5.) Mechanical obstructions in the com-se of the portal vein. The? may be very various, e.g. masses of retro-peritoneal cancer, enlarg lymphatic glands in the hilus of the hvcr, clots conveyed into th trunk of the portal vein, or secondary inflammation, occasioned b them or propagated from the vicinity. (6.) Morbid states ofth liver itself, as granulating cu-rhosis, red atrophy, excessive dilatatio of the biliary ducts. WE1S5E, director of the Cldldren's Hospital at St. Petcrsbur maintahis, after the confirmative experience of twenty years, th