327 DISEASES AND WOUNDS OP THE EYE; ETC. Giantonio Gioppi. — Aneurism of tlie Ophtlialmic Artery cured by Digital Conipressiou. (Giorn. d'Ophtalraol., Aprile et Maggie; et Ann. d'Oculist, Nov. ct Dec., 1858.) lb. Vanzetti.—A second Case of Aneurism of the Orbit. lb. Wordsworth.—On a large Cyst in the Orbit, cured by the cauterant action of Iodine on its Interior. Med. Times and Gaz., Aug. 20, 1859. Aiken,—E.\ostosis of the Orbit. Charleston Journ., Nov., 1858. Dixon's wovk is the second edition of liis already weli-kiiowii text-book, with considerable additions. Coopee's is a profusely illustrated monograph. SicHEL insists on the importance of an early diagnosis of this disease at its veiy commencement, when sm-gical interference may be successful. The first stage of its development is less generally known than the later ones where idceration has taken place, when advice is usually first sought. Usually one or several distinct, more or less rounded nodides, appear on the free border of the lid, or close to it. They are hard, and either of the colour of the skin, or greyish and semi-transparent. Besides upon the edges of the lids, they are prone to occur at the inner canthus, which is destroyed M-hen they ulcerate. The isolated nodules or beads become con- lluent, involve the subcutaneous tissues, and adhere to the tarsus. Up to tliis period the disease is best removed with the knife, and Sichel recommends a strict autiscrofulous treatment after the opera- tion, because he has noticed this cancer especially in persons of a lymphatic temperament. But when the surface is ulcerated, and the nodule is fixed to the tarsal cartilage or bone, Sichel deprecates extirpation with the knife, and considers the energetic use of caustic more appropriate. Paoli and Mauacacoi report the successful treatment of pannus by inoculation with matter from cases of purulent ophthakiia, from the urethra, and from a case of traumatic ophthalmia. Hancock reports two cases. The local treatment consisted in poi^py fomentations; in the fii-st case a solution of nitrate of silver, eight and a half to one ounce of distHled water, was also used. The general treatment was quinine, porter, and full diet. HuLME having slit tlie punctum and canalicidus, introduces a piece of silver wire, of suitable thickness, into the nasal duct, the upper end js then bent over the edge of the lid at the inner canthusj and cut short off.