29G IIKI'OIIT O.N SLllGEllV. soui'cc of danger, Wise suggests—first, tlie evaciiiitioii of llu; urine before the operation, and its substitution by mucilage; secondly, the drainage of the bladder by a gutta-percha siphon fastened in the M ound. The siphon to contain a cotton wick, which is to remove the urine from tlie bladd(.'r by capillary attraction. The cases reported in the 'Medical Times and Gazette' occurred in London hosjntals. Of a total of 186 cases, 146 recovered aiul 40 died, Tweuty-six of the fatal cases were adults; whilst of 137 cases under twenty years of age, only fourteen died. The influence of age on the prospects of lithotomy is strikingly demonstrated by these facts. The rarity of renal comphcatious in children explains the comparatively little risk of the operation at this age; and conversely, the frequent co-existence of kidney disease with vesical calculus in adults accounts for the higher rate of mortality. The heavier the stone, the greater the danger, is a falla- cious idea. As a general rule, children have smaller calculi than adults ; their immunity, however, does not lie in the smaller size of theii' calculi, but in their freedom from kidney disease. The tables adduced show that at all ages renal disease is the most important cause of death. Haemorrhage, pyaemia, and peritonitis, rank next. Adams recommends the use of a beaked knife in dividing the neck of the bladder. The ' Medical Times and Gazette' draws a comparison between London and provincial practice. The 'Medical Times and Gazette' report on lithotrity embraces cases treated in London hospitals between January, 1854, and July, 1857. Of these cases—twenty-one in number—twelve recovered and seven died. In five of the seven fatal cases death was caused by pyaemia. BiiowN performed AJlarton's operation on a boj', a3t. 13, who had had stone symptoms two years. He left the hospital twenty-eight days afterwards. The stone was one and seven eighths inch in its greater circumference, and one and a half inch in its lesser. Brown operated by Allarton's method on a boy, ret. 6. The stone weighed 125 grains troy. Haemorrhage occurred to the extent of a teacupful on the third day, and recovery was complete on the eighteenth. Two of AViieelhouse's cases were chihken; the third, a man, set. 57. All recovered.