357 OBSTETUICAL OPERATIONS. In the case related by Mauxouhy^ warm injections into the neck of the uterus were employed, and the child preserved. The patient had previously been delivered by the forceps, the cliild not sui'viving. In TiiouNCEE^s case, premature labour was successfully induced in two successive pregnancies by the use of injections into the cervix uteri. Germaxn records, as the basis of an elaborate paper, twenty-three cases of the artificial induction of premature labour, out of 339 operations and 1019 laboui's, the large proportion of which he explains by the unusual frequency of raclritic pelvic distortion in the parti- cular neighbourhood the scene of his observations, and his practice of ascertaining by examination the state of the pelvic diameters during pregnancy. The greater mortality for the children the earlier the operation is performed, is not dependent, he remarks, entirely upon the degree of pelvic contraction, state of develop- ment, &c., but is partly explainable by the fact that the pre- sentation is often found defective in operations performed too early. The general indications for the operation, to be gathered from the examination as to the state of the pelvis, are given. The mode adopted in the twenty-tliree cases was various; in only nine of them was one method exclusively adopted, viz., one by the method of Kiwisch, five by that of Cohen, two by that of Braun, and one by that of Scanzoni (mammary). In the other cases, a combination of more than one method was necessary. Cohen's method was employed singly or otherwise in nine cases, and of these nine cases the children were born alive in seven instances. BiENBAUM finds uterine injections most eflPectual in inducing labour. Lumpe gives the preference to the so-called Cohen's method, employed also in cases related by Riedel, Heckeii, Cuede, and CoESFELD. The latter uses water colder (50—59° Fahr.) than that usually employed, by Avliich the effect is more rapidly produced. In the cases by Groningen, Stolz, and Godefeoy, the uterine douche (Kiwisch's method) was employed. Pinizio records the fii-st case of the induction of artificial premature labour in Naples. The method employed was the use of the warm douche. Giordano employed cauterization of the " condutto uterino" as a means of inducing labour in a case of pelvic deformity. The principal conditions in wliich the operation for the induction of premature labour is indicated are, according to Mayer—extreme