457 FORENSIC PYSCIIOLOGY. Ancelot observes, that the presence of coagulated blood in the caput succedaneum would only prove that the child was living at the time when the caput was forming. Leupoldt's dissertation once more discusses, and approves of the hydrostatical test for new-born lungs. T]ie pages of Zeissikg defend the propositioii, that a child which has not breathed shall be considered as not having lived. The disquisition of Lowenhaedt combats this view of forensic medicine, and sustains the counter-proposition, that a new-born child, even if it has not yet breathed, may live, and consequently may be kiUed and murdered. The proposition of Zeissing is well adapted for the convenience of those who wish to confine the evidence of life to the floating of the lungs on water. Akata remarks, that the cord may be tied in two ways, namely, efficiently, so as to close the blood-vessels, and inefficiently, so as to leave them entirely or partly open. Lowe examined the bony residues of an almost entirely decom- posed corpse of a child, and pronounced them to be derived from a foetus which had probably died in utero, and had consequently been born dead. Lucas remarks on the signs by which accidental strangulation of the cliild, by the cord, may be distinguished from intentional strangu- lation after birth. Behh communicates the case of a new-born child wliich had died of apoplexy, caused probably by an inflammatory condition of tlie brain existing wliile in utero. VIII. FORENSIC PSYCHOLOGY. ^"^^rf^ff^^^sT^ of Forensic Psychology, for the use of physicians and jurists. Schwebes.-On Legal Responsibility, in the sense of the new Crinunal Code foro-medically considered. (Casper, 14, 2.) Mair.-On tl>e Present State of the Question of Legal Responsibility. Baver' sches arztl. Intell. Blatt., May, 1858, No. 21. Sclineider.-The Position of Psychology relative to Criminal Law and Practice . represented by the discussions of the Psychiatric Section of the Thirt."o ,h Meeting of German Naturalists and Physicians. (Deutsche 12 ^ / Pla8:ge.-Aphoristic Thoughts on the question-Is the assumption 0 reasons for legal responsibility admissible or necessary in practice ' (lb ) Lowenhardt.-(Loc cit., p. 7.) First Examination of the Question-Is a " dimi -shed," or, as others call it, " a conditional," legal responsibility to be assurd"