REPORT 0>' PRACTICAL MEDICINE. no Worms—Ucber EntzViudung dcs Ductus Thorac. [On lunararaation of the Tho- racic Duct.] lb., p. 169. FlOgel—Pleuritisches u. perikardiales Exsudat, Eintritt der Quergrimmdarms in die Brusthiihle, Tliiombose beider Scbcnkelartcricn, u. cines Tlieiles dcr gemciuscbaftlichen lliiftpiilsadcrn. [Pleuritic and Pericardial Exudation, the Transverse Colon intruded into the Thorax, Thrombosis of both Crural, and oi' a part of the coniraon Iliac, Arteries.] lb., p. 171. Whalley.—On a Case of Purpura, readily yielding to Gallic Acid and Mercury, Lancet, Dec. loth, 1859. Cockle.—On certain Points of Physical Diagnosis in Mitral-Valve Disease. lb , Dec. 17th, 1859. Gail'dner.-Case of Aneurism of the Thoracic Aorta, which opened into the Trachea and Left Bronchus; ILnemoptysis four years before Death. With Remarks on the Rupture of Aneurisms. Med.-Chir. Transact., vol. xlii, 1859, p. 189. CliMing of He finger-ends as a symptom of ihoracic disease — Ogle and Meadows eacli relate a case bearing on this subject. As a consequence of aueurisinal tumour pressing on one side, the fingers of tlie corresponding hand presented the appearance 111 question. Maekham contributes an analysis of twelve cases of rupture of the heart recorded in the first seven volumes of the 'Transactions of the Pathological Society.' In eight, symptoms of disordered circiilation or respiration, or both, preceded the rupture. Two only enjoyed good health. Two had suffered previous attacks of hemiplegia, and in these two intracranial disease was found after death. Fatty degeneration of the heart, in one instance limited to the seat of rup- ture, was in aU cases the cause of the occurrence. In nearly aU, if not in all, the cases, the coronary arteries were diseased, and the circulation especially obstructed in that particular branch which led to the seat of ruptm-e. Markham draws attention to the probability of the finer cerebral arteries being diseased in such cases, and considers that the symptoms may in ]iart proceed from impairment of the actions of the brain, in consequence ot such A paper is published by GAiEnNER on pericarditis. He does not treat the subject in a systematic manner, but oflers liis experience on various points connected with the diagnosis, prognosis, and treat- ment of the disease. With regard to tlie first, he observcs- (i ) That though friction-sound is perhaps always present at some period in the com-se of pericarditis, yet it may be so fugitive aiicl trnnsitorv that we cannot at all reckon upon finding it. lue amount of effused fluid will not always account for the i.iconslaucy