76 REPORT ON THE INSTITUTES OF MEDICINE. From the above-cited observations it appears that the rapidity of cutaneous absorption greatly depends on the menstruum employed for dissolving the poison. As albumen undergoes during the digestive process an important change before it passes tlirough the walls of the intestines into the blood, it is possible that tlie object of this change is to render it more easy of absorption. Funke put this theory to tlie test, and ascertained that peptone has a very much higher endosmotic equivalent than simple albumen. A solution of peptone, made by digesting wliite of eggs in artificial gastric juice prepared from the pig's stomach, is as rapidly absorbed by the'intestines as a solution of sugar, whereas only the smallest quantity of pure albu- men passes tlirough the intestinal walls. Haidenhain says that the roots of the epithelium-cells lining the frog's intestine have long, fine fibres attached to them (hke what Gerlach described in the brain); which enter the mucous membrane, and end in little swellings. If the frog is made to swallow oil, and the intestines be afterwards examined, the epithe- lium-cells, the fibres, and the swellings at their extremities, are all found filled with oil. I'rom this he concludes that these fibres form a system of hollow tubes, which communicate with the lacteals. This communication has not, however, been observed. Reclam made a number of experiments in order to show that the exhalation of watery vapour from the lungs and skin excites a cur- rent (of fluids) in the tissues. And further, that the rapidity of in- testinal absorption depends upon the rapidity of the cutaneous and puhnonary evaporation. (His experiments scarcely admit of this conclusion.—Valentin.) Basslinger observed a network of lacteals in the mtestmal walls of the goose, and a quantity of fat-globules in the chyle. Kohler's experiments were made with the view of ascertaimng whether poison acts quickest on animals whUe digesting or fasting. He found that fasting animals were most slowly poisoned, and this he supposes arises from their circulation being slower. The effect was most marked when the poison was not introduced into the stomach, but into the subcutaneous ceUular tissue. Meder found that after ligature of the abdommal aorta, the lymphatics do not take up strychnine. _ ScHWANDA calculated the quantity of chyle passing tlirough the thoracic duct (of dogs) in one hour. The maximum quantity he