430 RErORT ON LEGAL MEDICINE, ETC. does not necessarily involve dislocation of fragments, which may be only a secondary efl'ect of volnntary muscular contraction. He states that most malformations in bones and joints, subsequent to injuries, are due to undiagnosed, and badly treated fissures. The essay of Pelikan contains a reconsideration of known facts relative to rigor mortis, Wallmann has never observed rupture of the internal and inter- mediate membranes of the carotids in hanged persons, nor was he able to produce their rupture experimentally j from which expe- riences he comes to the conclusion that such an occurrence must be very rare. According to Heller, ha3matine is best extracted from blood by sulphuric acid and alcohol. After neutralization of the acid, the alcoholic extract is evaporated. The watery solution of the residue is mixed with an equal volume of healthy mine, the mixture heated to boiling in a test-tube, and concentrated liquor potassse then added. It thereby becomes of a green colour, and a blood-red precipitate of earthy phosphates forms, which under the microscope appears yellow and amorphous. If the mixture is afterwards shaken with air and allowed to stand, the hsematine-phosphates begin to discolour from above downwards, and tlie green colour of the fluid gradually fades. Of all tests for blood, Bryck believes the production of the characteristic crystals to be the best. Dried blood is soaked in water, and afterwards treated witli glacial acetic acid. In this way, blood on linen, wood, metal, clay, and lime, can be recog- nised. If the blood is dried ia substance, it may be scraped off the surface on which it is found. The powder is placed upon a shp of glass, ground down with a glass rod, and covered with a piece of thin glass. One or more drops of glacial acetic acid are next brought in contact with the powder, and the preparation is then gently dried on a sand-bath. When all the acid is evaporated, the preparation is allowed to cool, washed cautiously with a Httle water, and submitted to microscopic examination. The rhombic, ])rown-red crystals of liEemine, discovered by Teichmann, are evi- dence of the presence of blood, Bryck adverts also to some modifications of the test, and to the so-called polychroic test, viz., the changes of colour which residues of blood undergo by the'alternate action of glacial acetic acid, caustic potassa, and concentrated sulphuric acid.