215 CIRCULATORY SYSTEM. advantiiguous in cases where local liyperfeiuia is depeudeiit upon a laxity of the wails of the blood-vessels. It has proved effectual in several cases of acute aud clu'onic inflammation of the eye, in indurations, tumefactions, aud catarrhal affections of tlie uterus, in enlarged spleen after iutermittents, when quinine had failed, and in exophthalmos with thyroid enlargement. Vakzetti has recently employed, witli great success, digital com- pression of the main artery of a limb in cases of severe inflam- mation. In a paper on pericarditis, Maukham insists on the circumstance that the inflammation and the changes it produces are not essentially the disease, but rather the prior state which gives rise to the local disorder. This consideration is of high importance in directing the treatment. With regard to the various effects produced by pericarditis on the heart itseK, he is of opinion that the organ ati'ophies or undergoes degeneration if its muscular tissue has been damaged by the inflammatory process ,• on the other hand, if the muscular tissue is sound, but the valves have been damaged by con- curring endocarditis, hypertrophy, with or without dilatation, may result. Fox records a case of well-marked but temporary cyanosis coming on in an infant of eleven days old, previously quite healthy, and disappearing subsequently in a gradual way, without any dvspncea or lowering of temperature, or any notable symptom except* rather considerable hsematnria. Fox discusses the causation at length, aud concludes that probably obstruction existed somewhere, and that Its seat was at some point beyond the ductus arteriosus. In the second part of his paper he states the grounds which lead him to believe that a murmiu- produced at the foramen ovale must be presystohc in point of time, and criticises Markliam's and Da Costa's observations. Crkgeen records a case of ruptm-c of the right auricle of the heart. The pericardimn was distended with coagidated blood, which had issued from a rent on the anterior aspect of the right auricle, sitiiated between the entrance of the inferior vena cava and the ri-ht auriculo-ventncular opening, about six lines in length. The wall of tlic right auricle was, if anytliing, a little thinner than usual, but the remainder of the heart, its valves included, was perfectly healthv. I here was no fatty degeneration (it is not stated that the microscope