REPORT ON MIDWIFERY, ETC. 353 Inq cases, the accouchement ford was necessary; two of the mothers died. Barnes relates fourteen cases of placenta prajvia. The deduc tions drawn by him are as follows : Arrest of ha?morrhage occurs when the placenta has become detached for a certain distance from the cervix—physiologically^ therefore. The posterior or usual posi- tion of the placenta in these cases favours the occurrence of trans- verse presentations. When the cord is attached to the edge of tlie placenta, it is very liable to be prolapsed in these cases. Uterine inflammation and puerperal fever are likely to ensue in cases of pla- centa prajvia, a danger increased by forcible manual efforts, and the now very vascular condition of the lower part of the uterus. In some cases, the haemorrhage having ceased and the os being dilated to the size of a crown-piece, interference in labour is not necessary quoad the placenta. It is expedient to hurry tlie period of dilatation of the os in these cases, as after a certain point of dilatation is reached no haemorrhage occurs. Eupturing the membranes, plugging the cer- vix, ergot and galvanism, often suffice to produce the requisite ex- pansion. In those cases where forced delivery or artificial total detachment of the placenta are dangerous operations, the separation of the cervical zone by the index finger is safe and feasible. Stephens and Eainy record cases in which separation of the placenta was performed, and no hfemorrhage followed. In Mokkis's case, the haemorrhage continued after such separation. Jardine Murray records a case in wliich the air-pessary was employed use- fully as a plug and dilator of the cervix uteri. In two cases of pla- centa prajvia treated by the use of the colpeurynter, Spiegelberg states that the cliildren were bom dead, and that he would prefer using linen on the next occasion. In Eamsbotham's case of twins there was an excessive quantity of fluid present, but in one amnionic cavity only. Tlie point in Tritz's case to which attention seems to be directed is the fact of an ovum from an ovary afl'ected with cystic disease, giving rise subsequently to an hydatid mole. Hamon records a case of hydatid mole. The uterus was as large as at six months. In addition to the usual symptoms, the woman suffered from albuminuria and anasarca. Graily Hewitt, after describing the particulars of a case in which a very perfect and early specimen of the hydatidiform or vesicular mole was expelled from the uterus, offers the following conclusions