29 VASCULAR SYSTEM. of the edges of the divided inner coats. 3. Rupture oT the intiraa and media of the arteries of living animals, whether in one hne round the vessel, or in several circular lines closely apposed to each other, or irregularly at different parts of the interior of the artery, is not of itself sufficient to cause coagulation of the blood in, and consequent obstruction of, the vessel at the point of injury. 4. Inflammation of the arterial walls of such a degree as to cause great thickening of the same, is insufficient of itself to cause coagu- lation of the blood in, and consequent obstruction of, the artery at the point inflamed. Lister says that the ammonia theory is far from presenting a satis- factory explanation of the cause of the coagulation of the blood. Tor among other things he finds that blood, the ammonia in which has been neutralized by acetic acid, still remains fluid when kept in a cold vessel; and coagulates as soon as the temperature is slightly raised. Lister's experiments go in part to support Bruecke's state- ment regarding the power which the coats of the blood-vessels have in keeping the blood fluid. D'EspiNE and RuHLE differ with regard to the nature of the pulsating tumour at the upper part of Groux's sternum. The former thinks that it is the ascending aorta, the latter the right auricle. Gabriac and Chevenin-Conqtjeret say that the impulse of the heart against the thoracic waUs is synchronous with the systole. The force of the horse's heart, Colin found to be equal to 336 lbs. It diminishes with the loss of blood, and when reduced to about one fifth the animal dies. Marey believes that the action of the heart in propelling the blood is greatly assisted by the elasticity of the arterial coats. He says, too, that mechanical as well as chemical stimuli, cause contraction of the capillaries when they are weak, dilatation when they are strong. VuLPiAN finds that the heart after death is more sensible to mechanical than galvanic stimuli. He mentions an interesting fact, viz., that Rousseau, on opening the chest of a woman twenty-four hours after she was decapitated, found the heart still pulsating, and, what is more astonishing, he says it continued to pulsate during five hours. Redtenbacher points out the defect of measuring the force of the heart by means of an instrument containing mercury. Verneuil says that the arrest of the radial pulse, when the arm is