29-4 HEl'OIlT ON SURGERY. cliloi'otic. The tumour repeatedly showed itself, and was found to be pedunculated; the peduncle Avas encircled by the urethra, and a sound could be passed on all sides between them into the bladder. The tumour became swollen when it was not immediately replaced. The vagina M^as normal. Horizontal position, the introduction of a large catheter, injections of sulphur-water, cauterization of the neck of the bladder, and sea-bathing, aU failed. Her general condition grew worse, and periodical accessions of fever, headache, and sickness, set in. To relieve this constant distress, Patron decided to remove tliis tumour by ligature. The extruded tumour was encir- cled with a loop of thread, wliich was tied round the peduncle within the urethi-a, at the dei)th of nine centimetres. On puncturing the tumour-, a urinous fluid escaped. A thread was then passed tlirough the collapsed tumour, which, together with the instrument, was pushed further into the bladder. The loop was tightened daily; it came away with the instrument on the ninth day. Tlakes came away with the mine; and lastly,the shrunken fetid tumour, still eight centimetres long, was expelled. The reaction, at first considerable, gradually decreased; the patient made a complete and permanent recovery. Patron thinks that prolongations of the mucous membrane, when they occiu- at the neck of the bladder, may give rise to tumoui's of this kind, which can be distinguished from a prolapse of all the coats by theu" tensity and transparency. EPISPADIAS. Voss-Invevslo vesica uimariaj og Luxationes feraorura congemtiaj hoc some In- divid rinversion of the Urinary Bladder and Congenital Luxation of the H.ps in the same person.] Christiarda, 1857- (Sehnndfs Jahrb., 1858, No. 7, and Vlrchow's Archiv, vol. xiv, i u. 2.) Canstatt's Jahrh., 1859. The coexistence of congenital luxation of the liips with epis^ padias constitutes the pecidiarity of this case. The child wivs a female. The irmbilicus, as usual, was veiy low, only one centuuetre above the horizontal rami of the pubes. The symphysis pubis was absent.