REPORT ON PRACTICAL MEDICINE. 132 heart, which must be felt even in that vascular system. Mere irritation, as shown by experiments with dead organs, does not cause a salt to penetrate speedily into the interior of the mass. The prac- tical conclusions which Kussmaul adopts are—"that a putrid limb is not to be considered as a mere dead appendage, even when all circula- tion has ceased; that, on the contrary, there may go on an active exchange of fluids between it and the living parts; that the mecha- nical and even the chemical actions are different in sphacelus and in post-mortem putrefaction; and lastly, that the magnitude of the danger in gangrene of a Hmb does not only depend on the size of the contact-surface of the living and dead parts, but on the size of the whole putrefying mass." Gestin maintained a thesis at Paris in 1857, on the influence of hot climates on Europeans. The essay is full of important facts, and does not admit of abbreviation for our limits. Parchappb has made numerous examinations relative to the pathological variations of the fibrine in the blood. He finds that in acute inflammations, attended with fever, the blood contains twice as much fibrine as in the normal condition; he states, as the general mean, I5'88 parts per 1000 of liquor sanguinis. In chronic inflam- mations the increase was very little 5" 10 to 6'oi per 1000. In various diseases attended with impoverishment of the blood, where the fibrine has been apparently increased, Parchappe shows that the increase is only relative, and that there is an absolute decrease. G. Meyer in thirty-one persons dying of different diseases, found traces of sugar (or hepatine yielding sugar) five times only, while in the remaining twenty-six there was no trace. Vernois found sugar sixty- seven times in 173 cases; Stokvis only once in eleven cases, the sugar- yielding case being that of a man who died from fracture of the skuU while in perfect health. In a case of death from common car- buretted hydrogen no sugar was found, though the patient hved only four hours. It does not appear that the age, the nature of the disease, or its duration has any positive determining influence on the pre- sence or absence of sugar. Meyer ascribes its absence, in accordance with Bernard's views, to an alteration of nutrition occasioned through nerve-influence. In a dog whose thigh-bone had necrosed after obliteration of the aorta, Beckmann observed the muscular fibres of the heart in some places calcified so as to form rigid, gUstening cyhnders; only here and there were the calcareous salts deposited in the form of small,