URETHRA. 301 Henry.—Urethrofomy for Impacted Calculus. Removal of four other Stones from the Bladder. lb., p. 136, 1859. Williamson.—A Case of Fistula in Perineo. Lancet, Jan. t, 1859. Wormald.—Retention of Urine in a Child; Death; Extensive Tuberculosis of the Genito-urinary Organs. Med. Times and Gaz., Nov. 19th, 1859. Demarquay.—Memoire sur la contusion et dechirure de I'uiethre ; nouveau pro- cede operatoire pour rctablir la continuite de ce canal. [A Memoir on Con- tusion and Laceration of the Urethra; anew Operative Procedure to re-esta. blish the Continuity of this Canal.] (Union Med., 36.) Canstatt's Jahrb., 1859. Blondeau.—Obstruction traumatique de I'urethre. [Traumatic Obstruction of the Urethra.] (Bull, de la Soc. Anat., July, 1857.) Canstatt's Jahrb., 1859. Flemming illustrates tlie clangers of forcible and unskilful catheterism by Uo cases of extravasation of urine following the formation of false passages, and narrates the case of a child with re- mittent fever who had complete retention of urine during twenty-four hours. The urine contained a flocculent precipitate, probably lithate of ammonia. Its scrotum and prepuce were much swollen. Some cases of retention of urine from the impaction of calculi in the urethra are also described. In one very violent haemorrhage was produced by a fragment of calculus sticking in the prostatic portion of the urethra. Wade gives a critical examination of the various modes of dilata- tion and division, with remarks on the use of Potassa fusa. Thompson advocates the treatment of stricture by incision in those exceptional cases in the management of which dilatation proves only a slight palliative. These cases fall into two series- first, long, unyielding strictures, of many years' duration; second, dilatable, but resilient strictures, which are ameliorated temporarily by dilatation, but which recur in an aggravated form. In the fii-st series of cases incision meets the existing evil; in the second series it is used with the additional object of preventing the accession of those bladder and kidney affections which tend to shorten Hfe in severe stricture. The complete division of the stricture is essential to success. Internal division is only apphcable when the indiu-ated tissue does not require a deep incision for its complete division • when It does, external urethrotomy is the less hazardous operation! ihe unyieldmg character of certain strictiues seems to be developed in proportion to their nearness to the external orifice of the uretlira Internal incision should not be performed unless an instrument of some size can be passed through the stricture into the bladder.