266 REPORT ON PRACTICAL MEDICINK. both lower eyelids were affected. Under a general tonic plan of treatment the disorder ceased. The menstrual function was normal. In a paper on the external use of medicines, Thomson asserts the great efficacy of narcotic and other drugs rubbed into the skin, and observes, that the elfect produced is greater and more rapid when they are applied to the epigastrium than to other parts of the cutaneous surface. In delirium tremens he has adopted for many years endermic medication by opium, in preference to its internal use. He confirms Deschamp's observation, that iodide of potassium can be detected in the urine after friction of the skin with a soap or ointment containing it. A very full and complete report on balneology is contained in ' Sclrmidt's Jalirbucher/ p. 323, vol. 102, and pp. 73—92, vol. 103. Jasee's itch-ointment: IJ. Flowers of sulphur, ^ss; sulphate of zinc, 5iss; powdered root of white hellebore, ; soft soap, 5xiij; hog's lard, §ij; essence of caraway, jss. M. A soap bath is always to be premised, and is " the most essential condition of the treatment." DuuRANT advises the following treatment for boils : Extr. Col. co., Pil. Hyd., Extr. Acet.Colch., alt. noct., with a warm aperient, if ne- cessary, the following morning. During the day. Pot. Acet., with small doses of Tr. Colch. and Spt. Ammon. co. On the fu-st appear- ance of a fresh boil, it is to be painted with a strong solution of Arg. Nitr. (5ij ad 51). If the boil be already formed and indolent, the nitrate is to be used, and poultices. LuDKiEWiCK (himself the patieiit) relates the cure of an obstinate skin eruption, designated as herpes squamos. humid., by the use of vinous-vapour baths, after aU sorts of treatment had failed. The eruption he attributes to the spurting of a drop of puriform fluid into liis right eye during the autopsy of a patient dead from glanders. A case of acute purpura treated by venesection, alkalies, muriatic acid, and lemon-juice, is recorded by Aldekson. The case terminated favorably in about six weeks. There was a good deal of rheumatic pain. The venesection appeared to be decidedly beneficial. Devergie speaks well of the effect of chloriodide of mercuri/ in acne rosacea and in the other forms of acne. Grand-Clement recommends the juice of Chelidonium majus iu itching eruptions. The juice of the fresh plant may be kept mingled with equal parts of glycerine. Sjiith makes some remarks on the action of the skin in the production and treatment of disease. Prom his own expen-