68 REPORT ON THE INSTITUTES OP MEDICINE. vital capacity of a man increases with his stature, in the proportion of 9-6 cubic inches for every inch in height. If, therefore, a man of 6 a inches in statui-e possesses an average vital capacity of 172-8 cubic inches, another of 68 inches stature wiU have a breathing capacity of 230-4 cubic inches, and a third person, 72 inches in height, a capacity of 288-8 cubic inches. 2d. In men the vital capacity increases with the circumference of the chest in the same ratio, namely, 9-6 cubic inches for every inch of increase in thoracic circumference. If the chest measures 26 inches, the vital capacity will, on an average, amount to 165-12 cubic inches. With a thoracic ch-cumference of 3a inches it will increase to 222-7 cubic mches; and if the cii-cumference be as much as 36 inches, the vital capacity will be no less than 226-12 cubic inches. 3d. The mobihty of he chest has a great influence over the vital capacity. Its value increases with the stature and with the circumference of the chest. 4th. The vital capacity increases from the fifteenth to the thirty- fifth year of age nearly 10-2 cubic inches, and sinks from the thirty- fifth to the sixty-fifth about 57-5 cubic inches, at different periods and in different proportions. S^^- Tte position occupation, and mode of life have an undeniable influence on the breathing-capacity. It is at its maximum among sailors, soldiers, and strong young men with out-door occupations; at its medium among mechamcs, com- positors, and pressmen; and at its minimum among paupers and the Tpper classes' 6th. In women the vital capacity is abso utely and relatively less than in men. It increases m the female sex at the rate of 6-4 cubic inches for every additional mch m height, and with the circumference of the chest in similar proportion. Arnold gives a very complete set of tables for calculating the vital capacity of any individual; the height, thoracic circumference, mobihty, &c., being taken into account. DIGESTION. r..,u^^ -On the Composition of the Animal Portion of our Food and its relation Gllbert.-On the comp p ^^.) LanL^eS^oS^e Le Food collection in the South Kensington Museum. Cor^sS-O-n imperfectly known Function of the Pancreas. (Lancet, .6th Feb., ,859. P-2.°9 ) ^. ei„„irkung des pancreatischen Saftes ^^t^ X^r^T.^ on Albumen.] (G.ttinger gelehrte Anzeigen, August, 1858, pp. i4S—'S5-)