12:21. liKroHT on I'Iiacticai. mi'-dicink. every quarter of an hour, or hour, antl the two substances are to be used alternately. No niedicine is given, but a generous diet and Corson strongly recommends the adoption of certain positions of the shoulders and the tension of certain thoracic muscles as an important aid in physical examination. He thinks that "these expedients for thlnninc.-, condensing, and tightening the fleshy walls of the chest, add fully one third to our power of detecting the earliest signs of consumption." A quotation from Trousseau's report on the treatment of croup (which is evidently purely diphtheritic, not our inflammatory disor- der) may be referred to with advantage. He shows the utter use- lessness of leeching, blisters and emetics, and that topical treatment is the only one that avails. Mandl recommends, in the forms of bronchitis which he denomi- nates seche (di-y), fumigations with the following mixture: acetic acid, 3iss; creosote, 5iss; water Oj. M. This is to be placed m a two-orificed glass balloon, to be heated, and the vapoui- to be inspired. . . , ,, BouuGADE directs attention to jerking respiration, as one ot the earliest physical signs of puLnonary tuberculosis. He gives the details of a post-mortem to show that it is not necessarily dependent on the presence of adhesions. ^ ^ -i Gkiesixgeu describes his experience of injecting nitrate of silver solution into the bronchi, after the manner of Horace Green. He trdy remarks that the operation is not without its difhculties, and that it requires a previous preparation of some days to aceustom the larynx to the introduction of the foreign body. Jur her, h sees no means of determining the passage of the tube into the right or left bronchus, but he believes it will usually enter the right, for anatomical reasons. , • i i f ,i,ir, Ulbich records two cases of asphyxia from the inhalation of chlo- roform, in which life was saved by artificial respu-ation. _ Horace Green describes the lesions of the epiglot is as consisting cither in erosions of the mucous membranes or -leerations^of^ and of its glands, or in CEdemaof its areolar tissue. Ihe erosions nd ulcerations are sometimes of tuberculous f--'^^^^.^^ lot Unchecked disease of the epiglottis may, he thinks, ouginate S:Sdera shortly the various causes of laryngeal con-