403 DISEASES OF CHILDREN. operation itself, Tkousseau remarks tliat it is necessary to have a large, double caniila; the neck is to be surromided by a '^cravate/' in order that the air inspired may be M-arm and moist. The wound must be cauterized, to prevent false membrane forming, and gi-eat caxe taken to give sufficient alimentary matter. He' lays great stress on the topical remedies. Beau asserts that hooping-cough is nothing more tlian aninflam- matron of the mucous membrane just above the glottis. The attacks of coughing are brought on by the secretions from tliis situation descending into the larynx. As a remedy for hoophig-cough, Schubert gives every thi-ee horns bitter-ahnond water, in doses of one to two drops, gradually increased to eight or ten drops, and mixed with a smaU quantity of water. Atcheeley administers five to fifteen minims of diluted nitric acid every two or three hom-s, employing at the same time a stimu- lating embrocation to the chest, and taking care that due attention is paid to the state of the bowels, &c. On the effect of vaccination as a remedy for hooping-cough, an experiment was made on an ex- tensive scale, in the year 1856, in the government of Kowno, in liussia. In many cases no efFect was observed on the progress of tlie malady, but in others it was modified in a favorable manner. iJie vaccme disease proceeded regularly in all cases ScHUH prefers the knife to the use of the electric puncture in tlie treatment of vascular tumoui-s in chHdren. Legendre proposes vaccmation for the cure of najvi materni. Ey BoKAi, BiERBAUM, and EiGBY, the particulars of cases of cephalo-h Womata are related. In Bokai^s case there was a tumour on each side. Alluchng to the diagnosis in cases of this affection, he states that the conditions which may be confounded with it are-^ the caput succedaneum, encephalocele, and hydrenceplialocele Rigby, in reference to the treatment, states that he follows Nae* gcle s plan, which is, to do notliing- and that the effusion will always disappear. " ni. DISEASES OP THE ORGANS OP DIGESTION AND THEIR APPENDAGES.