IIKPOIIT ON MIDWirEllY, ETC. 1:20 In Yixii's case of encepluilocele, the tumour ineasiu-ed nhie inches round, and the greater part of tlic contents consisted of cerebelhim. Tlic patient lived five weeks. Tlie foetus described by IIouel and j\jiXAUi;r was seven months old, and presented several defects of development, the greater part of the cranial vault being wanting, the upper lip fissiu'ed, the fissure extending through tlie nose, the bones of M'hich M ere absent, the ^eyes unequally developed, the ring and middle finger of the right side had but one plialanx, on the other side the little finger was provided witli only one phalanx, thc! right leg fractured, the skin unbroken. Bkiiuend states that spina bifida most frequently afl'ects the liunbar region or the junction of this with the dorsal, more rarely the sacral region, still more rarely the cervical, but most rarely the inferior part of the sacral region. Generally the size of the external tumour is proportionate to the extent of the osseous defect, but not always. According to Chaussier, it occurs in the proportion of one in a thousand cases. The number of vertebrae affected varies ; even the whole canal may be affected. It is often fatal soon after birth, and more quickly if seated high up. If life continue, the child is \A-eak and thin, often paraplegic, and affected with involuntary mictu- rition and defascation, club-foot, &c. The rupture is generally gradual, preceded by inflammatory attacks and convulsions. Life is rarely prolonged over the third year, but cases are on record of life continuing to ten, twenty, and even fifty years. An operation should only be attempted, when the child is otherwise healthy, the tumour pedunculated and single, the integument covering it not ulcerated, not painful on pressure or on being moved, and fluctua- tion is distinct. Of all the various proposed operations, simple compression, -with or without puncture, appears the best. In the case of a child seven weeks old, who had a spina bifida over the last lumbar vertebra, the tiuuour was painted ^vith a mixture of castor oil and coUodium, and when it had become hard, a wadding compress was applied. The next day the appHcation Avas renewed, the proportion of collodium being increased. Calomel was now criven night and morning, the head being hot and thc child restless. The tumour cpickly diminished in size, and after a few days was no longer visible. The cm-e was complete. Debout gives the particulars of several cases in which iodine injections have been used by various surgeons, in the first instance by Brainard. Of eleven cases, eight were cured. The resiilts appeared to show that the