358 REPOUT ON MIDWIFERY, ETC. degrees of pelvic deformity; extreme iiarroM'ing of tlie vagina; presence of large tumoui's in the rectum and vagina; retroversion of the uterus, where the reposition cannot be effected. In Eoss's case, other measures having been unavaihng, the membranes were pujic- tured. In Mackexzie's case, abortion was induced at the fom-teentli week by means of the warm douche and galvanism. ^ EsTEKLE, in an essay on external turning, states that from the sixth to the eighth month of pregnancy, he has frequently noticed spontaneous turning to occur in cases in which the position was unnatural. He proposes the operation of external turning in those cases where the position is, towards the end of pregnancy, ascertained to be not natural. Full particulars are given as to the best methods of performing the necessary examination and operation. In 500 cases examined in the eighth month, 22 instances of cross presentation were met with; of these 9 were rectified spontaneously, and in 10 the external tm-ning was performed. In 2 cases the turning upon the head was performed by internal combined with external manipidation, and in i case iuternal turning upon the breech was performed. In the 10 cases of external turning, placenta praevia was present once; in 2 cases, pelvic narrowing of the first degree ; in 3, excessive obliquity of the uterus. Of these 10 cases, 9 had been delivered regularly, the tenth was still undelivered. NoEGGERATH gives an liistorical account of external turning, and records the experience of obstetric operators in reference thereto. The chief difficulty in reference to the operation is in the diagnosis of the position; tliis is . only to be got over by great care and attention. In a case related by Maudueowicz, the presentation was a facial one, and Braun's colpeuiynter was used to prevent the escape of the liquor aronii. At the end of a certain time tliis presentation was changed, under the influence of the contractions of the uterus, from a facial to a pelvic one, and the delivery effected. Alex, E. Simpson relates tlu-ee cases in which turning was had recourse to, mth success, in place of the use of the long forceps. Buhelen relates a case of turning, followed by the accouchement force, in a patient suffering from convulsions at the eighth month. There was great rigidity of the os uteri, but the delivery of the clidd (putrid) was effected in two hoiu's. The mother did well. In Mackenzie's case, the conjugate brim-diamcter was two and three eighths inches. Craniotomy was performed, and delivery effected after subsequent version.