43 KERYOUS SYSTEM. nerve, contraction occurs both at the opening and closing of the current. Bernard says this is on account of the disorganization of the nerve beginning at the cerebral end, and it is only on the weakened nerve that the effects first spoken of are observed. When the pneumogastrics are galvanized, the pulsations of the heart stop, and this is followed frequently (in the dog) by the appearance of peristaltic movements in the intestine. Bernard thinks that this probably arises from the circulation being arrested. If the galva- nism be apphed to the upper end of the divided nerves, no action is produced upon the heart, but the respiratory movements are stopped tlirough reflex action. And by the same means a change in the chemical composition of the blood and urine may be pro- duced. Thus, galvanism applied to the pneumogastrics may bring on diabetes. In his twenty-fourth lecture Bernard calls attention to the fact, that if the circulation in the hver be arrested by ligaturing its vessels, a stimulus appUed to the nervous system fails to produce an excessive, or indeed any, production of sugar. On the other hand, whatever increases the circulation in the Hver, as, for example, section of the sympathetic, is likely to produce artificial diabetes. In the second volume there are some remarks on the influence of the cranial nerves on certain secretions, and a very complete resume of all that is known regarding the influence exercised by the great sympathetic over the circulation, and temperature of different parts of the body, but more especially of the head. The author also points out the influence it exercises indirectly over secretion, and describes the manner in which operations may be performed upon the thoracic and abdominal portions, and the residts thereby obtained. CoGHiLL, in lus lectures, describes in detail the nature of the ultimate structural relations subsisting between the nervous and other organic systems in the body. This involves a description of the various modes in which the distal extremities of the nerve- fibres terminate, of the modifications in form which they undergo, and the special structures which are found appended to their peripheral ends. He reviews all the recent researches that have been made in this field, and gives special attention to the observa- tions of Continental physiologists, who have thrown much light on