HERNIA, 291 Estevexet's is a case of strangulated crural hernia, \vliere the sac was opened and the bowel replaced. Shortly afterwards, fteces came through the wound, and a fsecal fistula' formed, wlrich gra- dually contracted and healed. In Bezzoxico's case the artificial anus was the result of an inguinal liernia, which had suppiu'ated. The patient, an old woman, aet. 72, first sought medical advice fifteen months afterwards. She was restricted to slops, and after more than a ]no]ith ffeces were passed by tlie rectum, and came tlirough the wound in smaller quantity. The cure was permanent, and she was dismissed the hospital in nineteen weeks. Schmidt reports a case of crural hernia in a vigorous old woman of seventy. The hernia, as large as a chikVs liead, had been stran- gulated and operated on eight years before. Having dined largely on beans and potatoes, distressing distension of the stomach ensued during the afternoon, and the liernial tumour became more promi- nent. In the evening she felt a sudden pain in tlie belly and hernia, and some fluid ran do^ii ]ier legs. The hernia had burst, and a loop of gut protruded. A desire to go to stool, attended by straining, only led to a further protrusion.' Several loops of gut (a portion of ileum and csecum) were tightly griped by the rent in the skin. Wlien this had been enlarged with a bistoury, the hernial coverings were found to consist of skin and condensed celMar tissue only. The bowel could not be returned nutil the gas distending it had been evacuated through a small trocar. Thirteen days after- M-ards, the patient was able to go about her house-work. Legexdue showed this preparation at the Soc. de Biologic, Oct., 1857. The neck of the sac was one cen'tim. from the femoral vessels in the middle of Gimbernat^s ligament. This rare form of liernia was first observed by Langier in 1853, and afterwards by Cruveil- Iner, Velpeau, Thompson, Deveau, and Melm. In ADA:*rs and Warb^s case the sac of the hernia was small and placed internally to and behind the hydrocele, which extended upwards as far as the inner rins:. DiEULAFOY, referring to the preceding case of Perrin, advances the opnnon that in all cases of strangulated inguinal hernia in whicli tlie symptoms persist notwithstanding an apparently succe<.s- ful reduction, an exploration should be made; the inguinal canal should be exposed and examined, even when no swelling can be felt In proof of its correctness, lie narrates three cases in which this