378 REPORT ON MIDWIFKRY, KTC. EuxENBERG records a case in which a tumour of supposed ovarian nature disappeared during pregnancy, and had not appeared again after a year from the time of delivery. In Lumpe's case, paracentesis was about to be performed for the second time, when diarrhoea set in and lasted for nearly five weeks. The tumour disappeared. The matters passed resembled, after a time, those which had been evacuated from the cyst by the operation. Clay records a case in which the ovarian cyst liad apparently evacuated its contents tlirough the bladder. In Preuss's case, paracentesis had been performed twice. Inflam- mation followed the last operation, and thirteen years after, the patient was perfectly well and the mother of four children. The report by Simon, of ovariotomy in Germany, contains 6i cases, 23 of which have been before published. Of the 61 patients a radical cure was obtained in 12 cases (195! per cent.) In 5 (Sg^T per cent.), the operation was useless or of transitory benefit; and 44 (775T per cent.) died from its immediate effect. The operation was complete in 44 cases ; of these 44, 33 died (72^ per cent.), I died subsequently of cancer, and 11 (25 per cent.) were radically cured. In 15 cases the operation was attempted, but abandoned or incomplete; of these, in i, radical cure; in 3, no advantage; in 11, death. In 2 cases, diagnosis at fault; I died. Hergott records a case of ovariotomy in a woman, set. 50; death took place twenty-three hours after. Spencer Wells had, up to the end of the year 1859, performed the operation of ovariotomy in hospital practice ten times, with a result of seven recoveries and three deaths. These cases are re- ported at length. The mortality after this operation is to be dimi- nished, he remarks—(t) by the selection of proper cases; (2) by determining the stage of the disease proper for operation; (3) by careful precautions against unnecessary sources of danger; (4) by the use of anaesthetics; (5) by various precautions in the operation itself; (6) by carefid after-treatment. The propriety of the opera- tion he justifies by the results of experience and by comparison of the results of this and other surgical operations, as lithotomy. In- jections are suitable only for cases of unilocular disease, or cases in which the secondary cysts are few and small. Spencer Wells re- cords also three cases of ovarian disease, in two of which iodine was injected and a cure followed. In a third, death took place after the operation of paracentesis from cyst-inflammation.