305 DISEASES OF THE TESTICLE. Very-De I'hydrocele de la tunique vaginale, et de la cure radicale par un nouveau precede. [On Hydrocele of the Tunica Vaginalis, and of its Radical Cure by a New Method.] Paris, 1858, These. Canstatt's Jahrb., 1859. Report on Amputation of the Penis for Epithelial Cancer. Med. Times and Gaz., Oct. ist, 1859. Walton.—Elephantiasis of the Scrotum—Operation and Result, with Remarks, lb., Aug. 6th, 1859. GoDAED gives a complete account of the unclesceuded testis, and all the circumstances associated with this condition. He states, that undescended testis does not secrete spermatozoa. HoLTHousE castrated an epileptic patient, but the fits continued afterwards. The 'Medical I'imes and Gazette' gives a summary of the cases wliich have been recorded in tliis journal during the last six years. De Memc points out the rarity of this complication of sypliilis, and reports a case in which he had removed the protruded fungus and degenerated testis. A similar case is quoted from EoUet. In Curling's case the cysts were numerous, and varied from one eighth to one inch and a quarter in diameter. Some meshes of the tumour were filled with colloid, others with encephaloid matter. EoGEUs classifies the causes of obliteration of the seminal passages under—I. Anomahes of development; 2. Wounds; 3. Inflamma- tion; 4. Compression; 5. Calculi; 6. Tuberculosis; 7. Degenera- tion of the walls of the canal. Obliterations from the first cause are very rare; they are explained by the separate development of the testis and its excretory duct. The author thinks, that many cases of irritable testis (Cooper) depend on retention of semen in con- sequence of obstruction of the duct. PiTHA first encircles the bundle of enlarged veins with a strong platinum wu:e, which he then heats with a galvanic battery and cuts them through. He does tliis at two points. The section is easy, and the divided surfaces as smooth as if made with a sharp knife. There is no hajraorrhage. Lee having passed two needles three-quarters of an inch apart beneath the dilated veins divided them subcutaneously between the needles The principle being, to allow the cellular connections on each side to form a vascular union across the divided vessels Nelaton in most cases advocates palliative treatment^by an india- rubber nng. The testis should be pushed upwards towards tlie . abdominal ring, the dependent portion of scrotum, emptied by pres- ' 20