267 CUTANEOUS SYSTEM. lueiits he is satisfied that the skin is not and cannot act vicariously to the lungs. Hutchinson contributes a clinical report on favus. After giving a total of forty-four cases observed by himself or others, he proceeds to remark upon its nomenclature, pathology, results, in- veteracy, age, sex, and social condition, in respect of comparative liability to favus; the question as to the occurrence of favus in con- nection with debility or with any marked form of general cachexia; its connection with scrofula; its hereditary transmission, contagious- ness, diagnosis, and treatment. The following is his summary of conclusions : (i.) That favus is a disease wholly depending on the implantation of a fungus. (2.) That it is contagious, and, in fact, spreads solely by contagion; but that its fungus being difficult of transplantation, it is but rarely communicated. (3.) That the con- ditions which favour its communication are, neglect of personal cleanliness, the existence of tinea tonsurans, and any irritation, such as the rough use of a comb, &c., which approaches to the per- formance of inocidation. (4.) That the young only are liable to its outbreak, but that it may be produced by intentional inoculation in adults. (5.) That the fungus develops itself chiefly in the hair- follicles. (6.) That its crusts consist almost solely of fungus- elements, and that thus it is easily diagnosed by the microscope. (7.) That the state of the patient's general health has little or nothing to do with favouring its outbreak. (8.) That it has no connection whatever with struma. (9.) That it usually attacks children between the ages of one and twelve, and that when once well established m the scalp it is rarely got rid of before adult age. (10.) That if it continues long unarrested, it destroys the hairs and thm foUicles. (11.) That it is a disease never seen among the better {u e. more cleanly) classes. (12.) That it is of infrequent occurrence, and that it appears to occui- with almost equal rarity in proportion to population in London, Edinburgh, DubHn, and Paris. (130 Ihat when it occurs on the naked integument it is easily curable but when on the scalp it is most intractable; the difference probably being that in the latter position its spores spread deeply into the long hair-foUicles, where they escape the influence of pai-a- s.t.cidal remedies. (14.) That the only available treatment is by the persevering employment of one or other of the parasiticidal fn.^^ TTi^ '-r"'"*'' "''''^y' °f ^^l^cl^ is greatly tacihtatcd by epilation of the parts. ^ ^