RKPOTIT ON TTIK INSTITUTES OF MKDICINE. 10 He therefore inclines to the oi)inion that the active principle of nerve-matter is a force stii getieris. Funke's manual is a new and modified edition of 'Wagner's Physiology/ which had for some years been out of prijit. The last edition of Wagner's book was published in 1844, and five years ago a new edition of it appeared, edited by Dr. I'unke. The latter differed so much from the former edition, both as regards plan and substance, that the editor replaced Wagner's name by his own. Punke, as is well knoAvn, has paid considerable attention to the formation of crystals in blood. While upon this subject, he re- marks that, under certain external influences, the organic colouring matter, which is an essential part of the contents of the red cor- pu-scles, can be made to assume, in any animal's blood, a crystalline form; the blood of each species of animal possessing, however, its own characteristic form of crystals. So much, indeed, is this the case, that by the shape of the crystals alone it is in many cases possible to tell the species of animal from which the blood was taken. Punke still adheres to his former opinion regarding the nature of these crystals, and has filled no less than three pages in trying to prove that hsemato-crystalline is not a compound, but a simple body. Some of his own arguments are, unfortunately, opposed to liis theory; for in the end he has been forced to admit that the crystals have no very definite chemical composition, and sometimes contain a lesser, sometimes a greater, proportion of inor- ganic matter,—wliich they leave behind on incineration. Of Schiff's manual, only the first tliree parts of the first volume, and of Pick's only the flrst part, is published; so that we can at present give no extracts. Aenold, after giving a description of the Physiological Institute at Heidelberg, relates the results of some of the experiments performed in it from 1853 to 1858. These will afterwards be referred to under their various heads. Milne-Edwabds has published the first two volumes of a large work ' On Comparative Physiology.' They treat of respiration, and circulation. Hannover gives the statistics of births, deaths, and diseases treated in the hospitals of Copenhagen. Beunard states, in his lectures on the animal fluids, that on injecting 1120 c.c. of water into the jugular vein of a dog weighing five pounds, the secretion of the submaxillary gland and of the pan- creas gradually ceased. Also that, after a short time, the urinary bladder was found empty. The bUiary secretion was the only one