OKTIIOP/EDIC SURGERY. 333 III.—Cowimmd Cuntractions, 1. Pes fiexus, addncias, hijlexus, or p. varus.—The most com- mon form of distortion. The distinction of a simple varus, and eqnino-varus, is considered unnecessary, because there is no case of varus in which the position of the ankle-joint is not that of equinus. The cuboid bone is twisted inwards upon the os calcis. 2. FesJIems, injlcxus or p. efpihuis, does not occur as a congenital dcformit}'. 3. Pes eiHeusus, injlex2ts, or p. calcaneus. 4. Pes alduchis, injlexus.—Exceedingly rare. Henke ackno-sv- ledges this form only from a drawing by Little. 5. Pes fiexus, ahdiictus, refiexus, or pes valgus.—Mat-foot. In all recent cases Henke recommends Eoeser's plan of treatment wdiieh consists in overcoming the contraction of the antagonistic muscles Avith cliloroform, bending the foot into the position of equino-varus, and fixing it so with a plaster bandage. 6. Pes exlensiis, ahductiis, refiexus.—An exceedingly rare form. Tlie dorsum of the foot lies upon the front of the tibia. Heibeeg reports that the valgus was due to \veakness of the plantar- ligaments and aponeuroses, consequent on rheiunatism. Heiberg sought to obtain contraction of the relaxed fascia by the introduc- tio)i of an irritant; and from previous experience, he employed for this purpose wooden pegs, which he introduced through the canula of a trocar, and then snapped them short off, closing the wound with collodion. One was placed in a line from the heel towards the great too, and another from the same point towards the little toe. Suppu- ration with cicatrization and contraction of the fascia took place, and the valgus disappeared. The operation was repeated on account of a too great laxity of the ankle joint, in consequence of which in walking the foot had a tendency to twist outwards. One peg was introduced in front, and another behind the malleolus internus. Moderate reaction ensued and convalescence was estab- lislied, when tetanus supervened. (The patient escaped with his life and the cure was iraner- feet.—Tks.) • ^ Dklose shortly gives the signs, causes, and treatment of this deformity, and reports a few cases. Buodhurst's case is a badly-united fracture of the femur. The rectus fem. was so contracted, that the knee-joint was nearly im-