56 RKPORT ON THE INSTlTUTliS OF MEDICINE. Toynbee. 0" the Mode in which Sonorous Undulations are conducted from tlie Menibrana Tympani to the Lal)yrinth in the Human Ear. Proc. ttoy. Soc, No. 3^, p. 32. Lancet, and Med. Times and Gaz., i8lh June, 1859. Earnshaw.—On t'^e Mathematical Theory of Sound. Proc. Roy. Soc, No. 34, p. 590. Alison (Scott).—On the Intensification of Sound. Proc. Roy. Soc, No. 34, p. 649. Bonnafont.—Memoire sur les osselets de I'oreille et sur la membran du tympan. [On the' Bones of the Ear and Membrana Tympani.] Compt. Rend., vol. xlvii, 1858, Oct., pp. 614, 615; and more fully in the I'Institut, 1858, Oct., No. 1294, pp. 341, 342. J ^ . A Claudius.—Physiologische Beraerkungen uber das Gehororgan der Cetaceen und das Labyrinth der Sangethiere. [Remarks on the Organ of Hearing in the Whale.] 8vo. A'ie/., 1858. Froriep's neue Notiz., 1858, vol. iii, pp. 225—232. Canst., vol. i, p. loi. Bonnafont.—Reflexions medico-psychologiques sur certaines conditions de sens de I'ouie et de la vue. [On certain conditions of the Ear and Eye.] Revue Med. Fran9aise et Etrangere, June, 1858, pp. 705—722. Burdach.—Annotationes anatomico-physiologicae de aure externa. [On the External Ear.] 4to. Regiomonti, 1857. MooRHEAD tliinks that the membraua tympani is normaUy tliTown into vibration in a twofold manner—ist, by sonorous undu- lations reflected upon it from the walls of the meatus; 2d, by vibra- tions directly propagated to it from the external ear; and that these vibrations may be impeded by many causes, occasioned by an aper- ture in the membrane. Such as impaired elasticity of the mem- brane, diminished excursion of its vibrations, &c. Toynbee's conclusions are not unsimilar, for he says—ist. That the commonly received opinion in favour of the sonorous undulations passing through the chain of ossicles to the vestibule is correct ad That the stapes, when disconnected from the mens, can still conduct sonorous undulations to the vestibule from the air. 3d. So far as our present experience extends, it appears that in the human ear sound always travels to the labyrinth through two media viz., through the air in the tympanic cavity to the cochlea, and through one or more of the ossicles to the vestibule. Eaunshaw says, that the principal feature of his commumcation is the discovery of an integral of a certain class of differential equa- tions. This class includes the differential equation of motion when a disturbance is transmitted through a uniform elastic medium con- fined in a horizontal tube. He discusses wave-motion, when the temperature is supposed to be unaft'ected by the passage of a wave, and when the change of temperature is allowed for.