476 REPORT ON LEGAL MEDICINE, ETC. The " piritrage" of wine consists in strewing gypsum over the grapes just collected. It is a very ancient process, and is said to offer the following advantages:—!. It gives a more brilliant colour to the wine, by preventing the solution of the whole amount of colouring matter contained in the pellicle of the grape, the gypsum probably forming an insoluble compound with the red matter. 2. In consequence of the diminution of colouring matter, the wine is more easily preserved. 3. The abstraction of water from the juice increases the relative quantity of alcohol, and, con- sequently, the vinosity or strength of the wine. The soldiers of the French army, particularly the army of Algiers, receive a ration of wine. It having been learned that the con- tractors supplied plastered wine, the Minister of "War requested men of science to give then- opinion, whether or not the use of plastered wine was detrimental to health. Several distinguished chemists examined a variety of wines, com- paring the composition and properties of plastered with those of unplastered sp'ecimens. Chevallier reports, with great care and acuteness, upon these researches, wliich show a great harmony in their results, and draws the following conclusions. IN^on-plastered wine contains water, alcohol, tartrate of potassa, clilorides, phosphates, and sulphates in smaU quantity. Plastered wine, on the other hand, contains water, alcohol, sulphate of lime, sulphate of potassa, acetate of potassa, and, in case the plaster contained alum, sulphate of potassa and alumina, acetate of alumina, acetate of magnesia, &c. There is, therefore, a considerable difference in the composition of the wines, and tlieir influence upon the human economy must also differ. If the plastered wines are injurious to health, the operation of plas- tering should be interdicted; if they are not injurious, it should be publicly announced, in order to protect the makers of these wines against the imputation of adulteration or falsification. The dkect question, whether or not these wines are injurious, Chevallier has not answered. f. Beer. Kriigelstein.—On the necessity for Control over the Purity and Genuineness of Beer, (llenke, 3.) The author informs us that he has found great difficulty in esta- blishing what should be normal or standard beer, and describes the