DISEASES OE WOMEN. 391 very large closes, a pm-gative and an emetic being given beforehand. Hebvey de Chegoin distinguishes a putrid and a purulent form, and he recommends iiijections into the uterus as a prophylactic measure. Tuousseau beheves the disease identical with pyaemia after operations, surgical typhus, &c. A specific infection of the placental wound is the cause. Dubois believes the cause of the disease to be an unknown primary affection of the blood. He is not convinced of the contagious character of the disease. In true puer- peral fever he had found all measures useless. Cruveilhieu beheves that the disease is a traumatic fever of lying-in women. He recommends the substitution of smaller for the present large lying-in institutions. Danyau contends that puerperal fever is a peculiar disease, of miasmatic origin. Cazeatjx is a firm opponent of the doctrine of the essentiality of puerperal fever. Its contagious character is not to be disputed. He had never seen a patient die who had been freely salivated with calomel, but on the other hand it was very difficult to produce tliis free salivation. Bouillatjd, in the main, agrees with the views of Hee^tlz de Chegoin. Velpeau beheves that the disease is an inflammation of the peritoneum, lym- phatics, and veins, or a purulent or putrid infection modified by the puerperal state. Therapeutic measures are of more service than many others seem to allow. According to Gtjeein, the presence of the placental wound is the cause of the fever. If ah- be admitted mto the uterus, the coagula and lochia become altered, and the altered fluids absorbed. Behier ('Lettres,' &c.) gives an account of the necropsies of eighty- five women who died from puerperal fever, and of the symptoms ushering in the disease, PiDorx believes that the uterus is the centre of the disease, but uot necessarily its point of origin. According to Mattei, the cause of the disease is neither a certain miasm nor a peculiar conta- gion, but an altered condition of the fibrin and plastic lymph, depen^ dent on certam circumstances, one of the most important of which IS absorption of the lochia. The lymph fails thus to close the open orifices, and the blood thus becomes afl"ected. Chavanne sees a complete identity between the various forms of puerperal fever and those affections witnessed after surgical operations. Legroux is a partial believer in the essentiahty of the disease; the fever with him IS primary, the local affections secondary. Dor foimd that, during an epidemic at the Lying-in-Hospital at Prague, during the yea?