233 RESPIKATORY SYSTEM. inclined to believe that it may be. very efficacious if given in the very large doses employed by some American physicians. It then produces sym^jtoms identical with those of tobacco-poisoning. It is tolerated very diiierently by different individuals. He approves of Elliotson's plan of giving small and gradually increased doses frequently. iEther has only acted well in a single case of Salter's, but in that it was like a charm. The use of opium he discoun- tenances in Mo. Of tobacco, employed as a sedative, he states that " asthmatics are very commonly smokers, and many of them find in the habit an almost unfailing antidote to their disease." But it is rather useful as a prophylactic than as a remedy for the spasm when present. Gairdneu, in his clinical notes, relates two cases of pleuritic effusion, in one of wliich thoracentesis was employed, both re- covering about equally well. He regards the operation as usually performed as merely a palliative measiu-e, to be employed for the sake of obtaining temporary immediate rehef in cases of great dis- tension. Only that portion of the fluid wliich distends and bulges the. cavity can be di-awn off by the simple trocar, though by means of an exhausting syringe, employed ])y Bowditch, evacuation cau be effected much more completely. Gairdner is incHned to expect good residts from the use of this instrument. In the 'Buffalo Medical Journal,' Plixt has given a cli- meal report on fifteen cases of pneumonia. Ten of them were complicated with delirium tremens. One proved fatal. Quiua, opium, alcoholic stimulants, and nutritious diet, constituted the treatment. The first of these remedies was rather used as a preventive of iutermittent fever, which is a dangerous complication than as a remedy for the pneumonia. Opium, he tliinks, lessens the perturbatory effects in the economy of the local inflammation if indeed It does not diminish its intensity. AH the patients were aUowed to take food as nutritious in quality and as freely as they desired. Neither bloodletting, general or local, tartar emetic, mei-. cury, cathartics, or counter-irritants, were employed. The author makes some useful observations on the use of tliese means and remarks, in conclusion, that the natural history of a disease and its mtnnsic tendency to life or death, constitute the true point of departure for the study of its therapeutics. Robin, remarking on the independence of bronchitis in relation to pncumoma, dwells at some length on the modification of stn rue-