270 REPORT ON PRACTICAL MEDICINE. Beddoes contributes a paper entitled ' A Comparison of the Mortality from different Causes in Australia and America.' The following is the summary -which he supplies himself, but the whole communication is replete M'ith facts which scarcely admit of con- densation. Tlie principal features of the medical geography of Vic- toria may now be summed up shortly as follows : " (i.) Excess of violent deaths, (a.) Excess of deaths from diseases of the bowels (alvine flux) and of the liver. (3.) Excess of diseases of the heart, (4.) Excess of some affections of the nervous system. (5.) Small proportion of deaths from tubercular and pulmonary diseases and from croup. (6.) Small proportion of deaths from the exanthemata and from hooping-cough. (7.) Absence of malarial fever. (8.) Gradual decrease of mortality from dysentery, typhus, measles, &c." The death-rate of Victoria in the year 1856-7 was 1672 per 1000; that of England, 21-98 ; and of Scotch towns, 26-82. On account of the paucity of aged persons in the Austrahan population, the death-rate appears lower than it really ought to be; when corrected for this peculiarity, it is raised to 20-43 per 1000. The most fre- quent causes of death are violence (accidents and the like), and dysentery, debility, phthisis, and typhus follow in the order named. All malarious diseases are absent, or very nearly so. Aneurism appears to be remarkably frequ.ent—86 in Australia, 16 in England; this the author thinks may be owing in part to the equestrian habits of the settlers. Macario praises the virtue of turpentine-vapour baths in cases of gout, rheumatism, neuralgia, and clironic catarrh. The baths are not to be taken more frequently than every other day; they cause considerable sweating, and usually acceleration of the pulse. Nerv- ous excitement is sometimes produced, and contra-indicates the use of the baths. The appetite becomes vigorous; sudamina and often furuncles form on the skin. The results do not seem to have been very briUiant. Lehwbss performed several experiments with rabbits, the result of which was to show, that freshly prepared chloride of brae and chlorine liberated by Guyton Morveau's process can alone be relied on for the destruction of animal poisons, such as is generated in gangi-ene of the spleen (Milzbrand). Rabbits inoculated with this poison died in twenty-four to forty-eight hours, although the dead matter from which the poison was taken had been exposed for twenty-four hours to the action of a mixture of ordinary cliloride of