DISEASES AFFECTING THE GENERAL SYSTEM. 163 judicious use of mercury in sj^ihilis, if it causes no notable distui-b- ances, exercises absolutely no injurious influence on the patient's economy. The third question relates to the variations in weight of the mercurialized patient, at different periods of the treatment, compared w ith his weight at the beginning; and to the comparison of these with the variations occurring in the non-mercurialized at the same periods. The tenth and twentieth days of the treatment were those selected for observation. In the non-mercurialized the weight only varied, as was shown in the answer to the first question; in the mercurialized the weight on the tenth day showed constantly a decrease, amounting in most cases to from two to four pounds, in some to eight. On the twentieth day, however, in the latter increase of weight was observed, and led on to the result obtained in answer to question two. Question four relates to the degrees of influence which might be exerted by different mercurial preparations upon the nutrition of the body. A difference was found to prevail diiring the first twenty days, the bichloride occasioning the greatest loss in weight, though subsequently, in spite of the dose being increased, assimila- tion went on in an increased ratio. The general result is that mercury judiciously administered, has no injm-ious influence on nutrition. Ballard has carefully studied the conditions pertaining to eighty fatal cases, returned as diphtheria, in the parish of Islington during 1858-9. He classifies the cases as follows, in respect of their truly diphtheritic character : Class i, cases in which he obtained satisfactory evidence of the presence of the true diphtheritic exuda- tion upon the throat, or in which he saw it liimself during life. Class II, cases which Avere certified as deaths from diphtheria by the medical attendant, but in which he obtained no particulars of the appearance in the throat. Class iii, cases in which he was assured by the medical attendant that tlie exudation was absent. Class i consists of 31 males, 35 females—56 total. Class 11 of 4 males, 9 females—13 total. Class in of 6 males, 5 females—11 total. General totals—41 males, 39 females. As to age, 5 deaths occurred under i year, 12 from i to 2, 11 from 2 to 3, 13 from ^ to 4, 7 from 4 to 5, 19 from 5 to 10, 7 from 10 to 20, 6 at 20 and upwards. Br. Ballard concludes,—!. Tliat the disease was comparatively rarely fatal to infants in their first year. 2. That it has been chiefly fatal to children under ten years of age. 3. That up to ten years of age, the greater number of fatal cases were in males, the numbers being