DISEASES OF WOMEN, ?>7~) the more frequeut employment of operative procedures. In 12 cases (3 of which are by Laugenbeck), operations have been per- formed, and in 7 of them with success. The operation is contra- indicated, if the tumours are situated in a part of the uterus covered by peritoneum. If the tumour be in the uterine cavity, the OS is to be enlarged by sponge-tents, and the tumour removed. The several steps of the operation are then described. Elkinston relates the particulars of six cases in which large uterine polj^i were present, chiefly remarkable for the size of the tumours and the difficulties experienced in effecting their removal. In Hardy's case death followed the ligature of a large fibrous polypus. In Maiee's case a substance was expelled from the uterus, which the author concludes was a coagulum of blood, the surface of which had become organized. Wagner ('Schmidt's Jalirb.,' 18^9, vol. ii, p. 36) considers it more likely to have been a fibrous polypus spontaneously detached, or possibly, an abortion. Aran recommends the use of a caustic pencil, composed of charcoal, tragacanth, and saltpetre, in induration and granular ulcers of the cervix uteri. ScANzoNi records a case of death, in less than two hours, from the use of the carbonic-acid uterine douche. Noeggerath relates four cases in which uterine injections were used; one of the pa- tients died. Sack states that his new hip-bath obviates the tendency to pro- duce prolapsus, &c., connected with the use of the ordinary form of bath. Brosius records two cases in which psychical disturbances were consequent on the presence of uterine congestion, and disappeared on the removal of the latter. Stouer details the purposes for which uterine tents are applicable. Becquerel ascribes a powerful remedial effect to tannin, applied in the form of solution, in cases of inflammation of the uterus. After the local affection is relieved, the concomitant anaemia is to be treated. De Meric removed a tumour as large as the fist from the cervix uteri of a patient, eet. 40. The tumour is described as " albuminous sarcoma." In Fano's case, the cervix uteri, enlarged by encephaloid disease, was amputated. In Breslau's case the ecraseui- was the instrument employed. In cases where the radical operation for the cure of cauliflower