PREGNANCY AND PARTITRITION. 339 cervix uteri undergoes little or no change during pregnancy. The shortening felt by examination is, the author contends, only appa- rent ; contracted dimensions produced by the finger's pressure on tlie soft cervix may be mistaken for it: introduction of the finger into the cervix, in commencing labour, vnll afford evidence in favour of this proposition. The evidence of the dissections made by the author shows a marked uniformity of length of cervix at all periods of pregnancy, the general measurement being that of about one inch. Six drawings accompanying the paper illustrate this view. 2. The capacity of the cervical cavity becomes gradually greater as pregnancy advances. 3. The length of the vaginal portion of the cervix, or the amount of its projection into the vaginal cavity, ge- nerally diminishes as the uterus rises into the cavity of the abdomen, though this is not a constant phenomenon of pregnancy. He main- tains also that tlie apparent shortening of the cervix felt at the middle of pregnancy does not extend to its cavity. In the second paper Duncan publishes a letter from Barnes, together with a drawing made by him of the cervix uteri in the beginning of the fifth montli of pregnancy. The drawing represents the interior of the cervix uteri as one incli and a half long. Hicks suggests a method of treating the urine of supposed preg- nant women, by which the appearance of the kiesteine is hastened and its quantity increased. The suspected urine is to be mixed with rennet, in the proportion of two teaspoonfuls of the latter to tliree ounces of mine. ScHMiTT concludes that the funic miffle may arise from valvular defects, from twisting of the cord round the neck, or from com- pression of the cord produced in any other manner. Feankenhausee believes that much information is to be gained by investigating the position, &c., of the sound of the fretal heart in pregnancy. The various modifying circumstances are pointed out, together with the sources of fallacy likely to be encountered. He believes that the sex of the child can be determined by this method of examination, finding that in the male foetus the heart beats 124, in the female 144 times a minute, on an average; but these num- bers only hold good when the observation is made before labour has begun. CiiAraEN cites four cases to prove the fact, that during the latter months of pregnancy labour having commenced so far as opening the OS IS concerned, complete retrogression for several days may occur.