22G REPORT ON rEACnCAL MEDICINE. diathesis." To modify this crasis of the blood he relies on alkalies, the carbonate of potash or soda, the doses of which should be 5SS to ^ij in the day. To prevent the localization of the inflammation in the larynx, he does not advise leeches, but the cautious application of cold to the throat, the rest of the body being kept warm, and small spoonfuls of milk and cold water being given internally. If cold cannot be appUed, blisters should be placed over the sternum. He gives opiates to lull laryngeal spasm. To destroy the false mem- branes, or expel them, Luzsinsky employs a solution of Arg. Nitras, or, if this fail, emetic doses of sulphate of copper. During tliree years, among 15,000 cliildren, 30 cases of croup have occurred; and during three other years, 60 took place among 23,000. Of these 90 cases, 55 were boys, 35 girls. Among children one year old there were 11 cases; from one to two, 16 cases; from two to thi-ee, 16 cases; from three to foui*, 8 cases; from four to five, 9; from five to six, 15 ; from six to seven, 14 cases ; i occurred at the age of nine. Of the 90 cases, 75 recovered, 15 died. The earlier the treatment was commenced the more success was generally obtained. Cotton, experimenting with various substances at the Brompton Hospital on cases of phthisis, comes to the foUowing conclusions respecting chloride of sodium. In some cases it increases the appetite and acts as a general tonic, equivalent to the bitter drugs. In doses of one to two drachms, gradually administered, it does not ■ usually derange the digestive organs or occasion thu-st. It does not appear to be a substance deficient in the tuberculous crasis, or to have any direct effect upon phtMsis when fully developed. Hyde Salter has some remarks on the treatment of asthma by coffee and mental excitement. He thinks that both act in the same way, viz., by exalting the voluntary power, andpreventmg tlie dominance of excito-raotory action. In a long report on tracheotomy, :Maetixi quotes the fol- lowing observations, made by Neudorfer, respecting a condition inducing laryngo-stenosis. "There exists a pathological condition of the air-passages, consistmg in an infiltration and subsequent shrinking of the cartilages, entirely analogous to the shrinking of the cartilage of the eyelids in tracheotoma. This shrinking may re- main limited to the larynx, or extend also to the air-tubes, even as far as the most minute (that are provided with cartilages). Sucli