340 KEPOIIT ON MIDWIFERY, ETC. With reference to tlie nature of spurious labour-pains, Simpson be- lieves that tlicy have their scat in the uterus itself, and are produced, like true labour-pains, by contraction in the walls of the uterus. BuTiGNOT recommends that in cases where the vaginal outlet is so narrow that laceration is threatened, small incisions be made on one or both sides, near the posterior commissure of the labia. In Schultze's essay the mechanism of the causes or circum- stances leading to perineal rupture are pointed out. ScANzoNi relates the particulars of a rare obstetrical accident. The patient experienced very severe pain in her second labour, the pain being situated in the sacral region. The head was imusually resistant, and all the diameters greater than usual. Severe pain in the right hip and back of the thigh was felt after the labour, gra- dually increasing in intensity ; crepitation M'as recognised during motion, which latter was very painful. Finally, an abscess ap- peared at Poupart's ligament, which was evacuated; a probe having been introduced, passed into the sacro-iliac articulation^ and the diagnosis was thus clearly established. Bishop relates a case in which extensive emphysema occurred in consequence of severe straining during labour. The patient re- covered. PATHOLOGY OF PREGNANCY AND PAETURITION. A. ON DEFECTIVE CONDITIONS ON THE PAUT OF THE MOTHER. Kussmaul.—D'^ Ueberwandemng des Menschlichen Eies als Ursache der Eileiter- schwangeischaft. [On the Migration of Ova as a Cause or Tubal Pregnancy.] Verhandl. des naturh. med. Ver. zu Heidelberg, iv, p. 102, 1858. (Sch. 5, 188.) Pierson.—Case of Fallopian Pregnancy, New York Journ. of Med., July, 1859, p. 141. Harley,—Case of Tubal Pregnancy. Obst. Trans., vol. i, p. loi. HanCOX.—Tubal Pregnancy. Brit. Med. Jour., 1859, p. 1022. RizzO.—Extrauterinschwangerscbaft mit fast reifem Fotus, Durcbbobning der Scheide durch cinen Arm desselben. [Perforation of the Vagina by an Arm of the Foetus in a Case of Extra-uterine Pregnancy.] Gazz. Sarda., 2, 1858. (Sch., 9, 329.) Van Geuns ""fl Schrant.—Graviditas cxtra-uterina. Verhand. Ph. van bet Genoosschap der verbordering der Geneesen lleelkunde te Amsterdam, ii, i, p. 17. (Sch., 2, 194.)