382 REPORT ON MIDWIFERY, ETC. died after the operation, and a third after a preliminary operation. The suture used was of silk. MoNNU proposes to treat obstinate cases of vesico-vaginal fistula by obliterating the vagina altogether, and allowing the menstrual discharge to pass tlirough the bladder. Tannbb, records a case of cure by Bozeman's operation. The opening was high up and of long standing. In Marshall's case also Bozeman's operation was successful. In MacGhie's cases, operated upon after the method of Bozeman and Simon, of nine hospital cases, seven were cured by an operation, and two partially. Of three private cases all were cured. Tenner cured two out of four cases by the same operation. Baker Brown records four cases of Bozeman's operation performed by liim successfully. The operation successful in a case of seven years' standing was also Bozeman's. Coghill rejects the button of Bozeman and the circular ring of Simpson; he employs iron-wire sutures, and simplifies the process of paring the margins of the fistula by emplojang only one convex knife for the purpose, and bent-steel spatulae. The success of the operation depends, he believes, on the iron-wire suture. In Watson's case, a leaden plate was used, perforated as in Bozeman's button, but having little leaden tubes soldered to the holes, whereby the use of shot is avoided. Baker Brown uses a separate bar-clamp to each suture, the suture being a metallic one. In seven cases thus treated, six were cured. Battey proposes a new modification of Bozeman's operation, by which more perfect coaptation and greater readiness in the performance of the operation are secured. In Thorp's case, the quilled suture was the means used to effect the cure of the fistula. Nevins succeeded in preventing the escape of urine, in a case of vesico-vaginal fistula, by the employment of a gutta-percha pessary. Breslau believes it to be very difiicult to obliterate the vagina, as a curative measure, in cases of large vesico-vaginal fistula. A case is related in which the attempt was made. Bagot relates a case of laceration of the perineum, produced during a first intercourse, in a young lady, set. i8. The perineum was torn as by a sharp instrument, the hymen torn, and the vagina completely laid open. Breslau relates a case in wliich excessive hypertrophy of the nympha; was associated with incontinence of urine, the urethra