RKPOUT ON PRACTICAL MKDICINK. ]-I8 of digitalis in inflainmatory diseases, and in pneumonia particularly, (i, 2.) Digitalis, given in large doses (two and a lialf to three and"a Irnlf grains secuncUs horis) during the progress of an acute inflamma- tion, has not only the power of reducing the pulse, but also of lowering the temperature of the skin, which may fall below the normal figure. (3.) The lowering of the temperature is independent of the coexistent slowing of the pulse. (4.) The slowing of the pulse shows itself before, or simultaneously with, the diminution of tem- perature. (5.) The sloAnng of the pixlse commences in 24 to 48 hours, and the lowering of the temperature 36 to 60 hours, after the commencement of the medication, (6.) The frequency of the pulse and the temperature continue to fall after the omission of the remedy. (7.) Together witli the above-mentioned phenomena, there occurs coincidently a cessation in the progress of the local disease. (8.) The value of the exanthem sometimes produced by digitalis is a matter for further inquiry. (9.) The influence of this drug upon the stomach, and in producing bilious vomiting, ought also to be kept in mind. A highly important warning is given, that during the time when the pulse and temperature are lowered, and the disease is yielding, it is dangerous to sit up, on account of the frequent occurrence of syncope. Laborde affirms the local emplojanent of clilorate of potash, as gargle, &c., to be of superior efficacy to its internal administration in purely local diseased conditions. He also finds it to be a pro- phylactic of mercurial stomatitis. Bautmez has obtained very good results fi-oni the injection of chlorate-of-soda solution into the trachea, in cases of croup, after the operation of tracheotomy. It produces the expectoration of shreds of false membrane. Tucus amylaceus is recommended by Albert, of Bonn, as _'\neld- ing a superior jelly to that obtained from cetraria or carragheen. Bertulus recommends very strongly the employment of quinine in all forms of typhoid fever. It does not cure, but keeps off' asthma and bad symptoms, and leads to a favorable convalescence. Potass, iodid. is found by M. TJovsskt eminently effectual in ar- resting the mammary secretion. In lead-disease, (Eltinoer confirms the beneficial efl'ect of potass, iodid. taken internally, and insists on its administration until the presence of lead is no longer demonstrable in the urine. Behier has observed very great benefit from the employment of