250 REPORT ON PRACTICAL MEDICINE, maxillary glands. Direct experiment sliows the disease to be cou- lagioiis. The aggregation of soldiers the author assigns as the chief originating cause of the disease; moist heat is the most favor- able meteorological condition for its development. The affection is quite distinct from diphtheritis; its ulcerations, the character of the false membranes (limited to the ulcers), its non-extension beyond the buccal cavity, and the absence of toxic phenomena, are positive points of difference. The treatment is by Potass. Chloras. A case of stricture of the ojsophagus in a female, &t. 19, is recorded by Batty. The post-mortem showed an annular stricture, of cartilaginous hardness, just above the cardiac orifice of tlie stomach, with masses of soft, grumous, tubercular substance extending downwards behind the oesophagus from about the cricoid cartilage. A bougie was passed, which at first produced no remarkable effect, but in about two hours symptoms of collapse appeared, and emphy- sema soon followed, and became very extensive. Death ensued in four days. Sturges records a case of intestinal obstruction, terminating favorably, by the use of opium, on the seventh day of the attack. The patient was a female, set. 65. The obstruction appeared to be seated in the small intestines. Thounhill records a case of fatal dysentery, with a small aneu- rism of the abominal aorta, in which, on autopsy, the spleen and the stomach were found in tlie usual site of the liver, and vice versa. Canton records a case of digestive solution of the oesophagus, the stomach remaining in every respect healthy, and being full of soaked bread. Some small particles of food were found in the left pleura. Two openings were found in the oesophagus, nearly a quarter of an inch from the diaplu-agm, having thin, fringed margins. The mucous membrane corresponding to these openings was filmy and almost diffluent. The rest of the oesophagus was healthy. Miliary tubercles were scattered through the lungs, and enlarged, suppurating glands were found in the thorax. The trachen was lined by a very thin pellicle of Ijonph. Two hours after a meal the child, xt. 6 months, became insensible, and remained so till death, eight hours later. A paper on the organic contractions of the rectum, resulting from syphilis, by Boveho, is of some interest. He states the diagnosis from cancerous constriction, as determined by the age, the less amount of suppuration, the formation at first of plates and hard