DISEASES AFFECTING THE GENERAL SYSTEM. 175 Au antimoiiial emetic is premised. The cases were under treatment thirteen, fourteen and eleven days respectively. In all the cases tlie pulse was full and strong, and the phenomena were those of sthenic, acute rheumatism. In all there was cardiac disease, but probably of old standing. BuDD adduces some very xjroving instances of the production of intestinal (typhoid) fever from contamination of ail- or water -with sewage. The last is briefly as follows. Out of thirty-four good-class houses, forming a terrace, thirteen obtained their drinking-water from a weU into which it was subsequently found that sewage matter had leaked. The contamination of the water was first observed towards the end of September, and early in thefollo\ring October intestinal fever broke out nearly at once in aU the thirteen houses in wliich the tainted water had been drunk. Mauj of the houses where the fever prevailed were side by side with others that were quite free. Sub- sequently e^adence is adduced to show, that in spite of careful isolation of the sick, fever infection has continued to spread exten- sively in establishments (such as schools) where no other cause could be assigned for the extension of the disease except that the healthy resorted to the same latrines into which the discharges were thrown wliich proceeded from the fever patients. In one instance, the women of a large retail establishment alone were attacked by fever, the water-closet appropidated to their use having been the receptacle of the discharge fi^om the first casual case. Dr. Budd also argues for the special poisonous influence of the intestinal discharges, from the circumstance that of the two kinds of fever (tyiDhus and typhoid) the latter is the only one that originates in sewage emanations A case of diphtheria, fully detailed, is given by Dr. Eansomb in wluch, towards the end of the chsorder, aneesthesia affected the tongue. Hps, cheeks, neck, and sides of the head, and next day the arms. About the same time the hand lost the power of graspino- and soon after the muscles aU over the body became greatly impaired in their voluntary power, so tliat he could scarcely waUc across a room His sight and hearing also failed considerablv. Dm-ing this time he was improvmg in general appearance. intim;tely he quite recovered SiBSON gives a tabular record of cases of rheumatism (acute) treated by large doses of opium together with other means. From eVT'f ^" twenty-four hours, with the effect of relieving the pam more or less quickly, but con.timtion sopor, or contraction of the pupil, were never mtked T^ o!