238 UEPOllT ON PllACTICAL MEDICINE. cau scarcely be distinguisliccl from it," the post-mortem appearances are not in a greater or less degree the result of change occurring shortly before or after death. In ulceration of the stomach, Brinton does not believe there is anything special or peculiar, such as to distinguish tlic process entirely from ulceration affecting other parts. It may conimence from a variety of morbid states, none of ^\'hich per se would have been sufficient to cause the destruction of tissue. The circumstances wliich interfere with the healing of the gastric ulcer are paralleled by those that interfere with the healing of one in external part. The treatment of the vomiting most frequent in any cases of gastric ulcer is best arranged by limiting the amount of ingesta, relieving flatulence, and neutralizing acidity. If the sto- macli is extremely irritable, it is better to afford it as complete and prolonged a repose as possible, forbearing the administration of drugs, wliich oftener fail than do good. A properly regulated diet the author considers aU-important; without its aid, drugs are powerless for good. In the commencement of the treatment, milk, given in small quantities and at frequent intervals, is most beneficial, and after some improvement has been obtained, ground rice may be mingled with it advantageously. As a njle, aU alcoholic stimulants should be forborne. Bismuth and ice internally, and blisters, &c., externally, for the pui-pose of relicAang pain, gallic acid, -n-ith dilute sulphuric, to arrest hfiemorrhage, and tonics to improve the strength, are the chief remedies wliich the author advises. Opium he also believes to be endued with the same ef&cacy in the cure of gastric ulcer that it has been known to possess in the case of ulcers of the limbs. The pathology of gastric cancer is very fully inquired into. The author finds that the maximum liabibty is between the ages of 60 and 70. " Up to the age of 30, the whole risk is less than one-fiftieth of what it reaches between 30 and 30. Tlie latter lia- bility, again, is multiplied in the following decades of years by 3, 6, 8 and 10, respectively. The maximum then seems to sink to little more than half for the two next decades, ending at the extreme age of 100. Comparing the risk of gastric cancer with that of gastric ulcer, it would seem that the former is, on an average, barely one fourth of the latter; and that though much more distinctly and exclusively a disease of old age, its climax or maximum of risk occurs at least twenty ycai-s earlier than that of the gastric ulcer." The greater liability of the male to gastric cancer is shoAvn by tlie division of 784 cases among 440 males and 344 females. As