184 REPORT ON PRACTICAL MEDICINE. Alistna planlmjo and Peucedanum Auslriacum recoinmended auti-epileptic remedies. GiLLK'iTK finds great advantage from treating chorea by the fol- lowing method. I'or three days tartar emetic is given, in quan- titles increasing from 3 J gi-ains the first day to 5 grains the third. Then three days' rest. After this three more days of tartar emetic, beginning with 5 grains, and reaching 9I grains on the third. Again three days of rest, and so on. The average duration of the treatment is seventeen days. The tartar emetic is not given with the view of producing vomiting; the object is to obtain tolerance of it. BouKGUiGNON, in speaking of the treatment of chorea, insists on the good effects of regulated gj-mnastic exercises, baths of sulphurt t of potassium, and electricity, associated, if need be, with other means adapted to particular cases. PiURiE describes the various forms of sunstroke which he has witnessed in India, their predisposing causes, the pathology of tin; disease, and its treatment. In the severest form death occurs \wi\\ creat rapiditv, preceded by perfect unconsciousness and gasping re- spiration. In the others the respiration is embarrassed, hurried, and gasping; there is extreme prostration, and giddiness or confusion of vision. The predisposing causeis are all such as produce exhaustion, and the want of acclimatization. Extreme engorgement of the lungs was the most marked morbid appearance observed in autopsies. In all except the most rapidly fatal cases death is by apnoea; in them it occurs as tlie result of a shock to the brain. Venesection, in his experience, was always prejudicial, but persevering cold effu- sion to the head, diligent friction to the limbs, brisk purgation, and the administration of diffusible stimuli, with smapisms, &c., to the chest, were of much avail. Continual arousing the patient, as m coma from opium, seemed to be advantageous sometimes, Wythes records three cases of apoplexy occurruig m young children who previously had been in good health, except a pain about the left instep of the first. There was effusion of blood within tlie skull in all three, and marked softening of the bram m one. le. , 1 Case of tetanus recorded by Skues in a girl, fct. 9, who recovered under treatment by Indian hemp, nourishing broths and wine. She took from 4 to 18 grains daily, and was kept m a continual state of narcotism.