281 AIR-PASSAGES. AIR-PASSAGES. Martini.—On Tracheotomy, Schmidt's Jahrb., vol. 102, 1859, PP- 73—no. Gesenius.—Catheterism of the Larynx, and its Relation to Tracheotomy. lb., No. 5, 1859. Statistical Eeport on the Results of Tracheotomy. Med. Times and Gaz., Oct. i5tli, 1859. Tudor.—On the Treatment of (Edema Glottidis by Scarification. Lancet, Aug. 13th, 1859. Buller.—Acute Laryngitis; Laryngofomy; Remarks. Med. Times and Gaz., June 18th, 1859. Barker.—Chronic Laryngitis; Sudden Asphyxia; Tracheotomy; Recovery. lb., Aug. 6th, 1859. Porter.—Chronic Ulceration of the Larynx; Death by Asphyxia, from food becom- ing impacted in the Glottis. Dub. Hosp. Gaz., March ist, 1859. Jeafifreson.—Syphilitic Laryngitis; Recovery; Inabihty to dispense with the Canula. Med. Times and Gaz,, 1859, P- 8. Barker and Simon.—Diphtheria; Impending Suffocation; Tracheotomy; Death; Autopsy. lb., 1859, p. 112. Forster.—Foreign Body in the Trachea; Tracheotomy; Death; Autopsy. Guy's Hosp. Skey.—Tracheotomy performed for the Removal of a Tamarind-stone from the Trachea. Med. Times and Gaz., July 30th, 1859. MAUTiNf s memoir commences with a brief historical sketch of this operation, and contains reports of a large number of cases, systematicaUy arranged under—(«) croup; {d) cedema of glottis' acute and chi-onic laryngitis, and stenosis of the larynx and trachea; (c) foreign bodies in the air-passages; (d) tumoui's com- pressing the air-passages. Martini figures several special instru- ments, Gesenius thinks that tubage of the larynx may be indicated whenever the free passage of air into the trachea is impeded; or it may be done to facilitate the topical application of remedies to tlie interior of the air-passages, and for this latter purpose a common, flexible, male catheter is most useful Kecently the introduction' and retention of a sliort tube in the larynx has been proposed by Bouchut as a substitute for tracheotomy in croup and other obstruc- tions of the air-passages. The tube is slightly conical, and lias a double belt about the middle. It is to be pushed down into the larynx, so that the lower vocal cords He in the chink of the belt, and the epiglottis moves freely above it. The commission appointed