126 REPORT ON PRACTICAL MEDICINE. ave es ,nalad.cs < e la poilrine. [Vital capacity of the Lungs, and its IlelatJon to tl e Diseases of the Chest.] Canst. Jahrber., ,859, vol. ii, p. ,00. Czermak.-Ueber de„ Kehlkopfsplegel. [On the Laryngeal Speculum.] Canst. Jahrb., 1859, vol. ii, p. II,. Funk.-Den Kehlkopfraehenspiegel und die Methode seines Gebrauchs [The Laryngeal Speculum, and the mode of using it.] Canst. Jahr., i8so.vol ii p. 112. ' Stork.-Zur verwerthung des Kehlkopfraehenspiegels. [The value of the Laryn- geal Speculum.] Canst. Jahrb., vol. ii, p. 117. Semeleder-Beweglicher Bnllenspiegel zu laryngoskopischen untersuchungen [Moveable Spectacle-Mirror for examination of the Larynx.] Canst. Jahrb ' vol. 11, p. 118. ■' ■WunderUch.-Ueber Hypertrophen bei typisch verlaufenden Krankheiten [On Kelapses in Diseases running a typical course.] Canst. Jahrb., 1859, ^o\. ii, Dr. WiLKs' lectures on pathological anatomy do not admit of more than bare mention. The work is divided into two parts the first describing the various morbid states of the several organs and systems, the second treating of associated morbid con- ditions and essential diseases. Eeference is made continually to lUustrative specimens in Gu/s Hospital Museum, which is under the charge of the author, and wliich, together with the numerous autopsies he has conducted, has furnished liim with a most copious store of facts on which liis statements are based. GENEEAL PATHOLOGICAL ANATOMY. TosTER, after quoting Virchow's description of the state of the nerves of an amputated stump, says that it is probable that the fascicular neuroma with fibroid characters is to be regarded equaUy \vith the true neuroma as a tumour consisting of nerve-fibres. In it, however, the fascicles of the perineurium are filled with nerve- tubes devoid of medullary substance, but broad and rich in nuclei. Webeu describes the formation of new vessels in and on cartilage during clironic articular inflammation, as occurring in two difi'ereiit modes. In one club-hke processes of fusiform nuclei or cells shoot out fi-om the margin of a capillary loop, and give off fresh processes. These enter the gaps made by the perishing of the cartilaginous structure. The original capillary becomes the trunk of a vessel which ramifies through the new-formed arborescent process. Billroth gives an account of the mode of ossification in