243 EEPOUT ON PRACTICAL MEDICINE. first of milk, afterwards of bread, the patient completely recovered, llic absence of emaciation in this case shows, however, that all the ingesta could not have been rejected. Tinctura lodinii has been found effectual in some obstinate vomit- ings, including that of pregnancy. In a clinical lecture upon vomiting, Duncan points out, a propos of a case, that vomiting is a very common accompaniment of inflam- mation of the lungs, both acute and chronic, and is best removed by the treatment appropriate to the pulmonary disease. Wallmann describes submucous gastritis as a purulent, diffuse infiltration, sometimes forming abscesses with cribriform openings in the superjacent mucous membrane. It extends to the perito- neum, or even to the iileiu-fe and pericardium. It is mostly observed as a secondary phenomenon in pyaemia, grave puerperal fevers, malignant variola, &c. Its occurrence is also favoured by certam epidemic influences. Its immediate cause is probably the formation of emboli in the vessels. BoKAi divides retro-pharyngeal abscesses into—(i) idiopathic; (2) such as result from suppuration of lymphatic glands; (3) those connected witli disease of the cervical vertebra?. The symptoms are, difficulty in swaUowing, stiffness of the neck, nasal voice, reversion of the head. Abscesses connected with bone run a slower course than the others. The prognosis is favorable usually in the first class if the pus is evacuated early. Bkeithaupt describes the occurrence of considerable displace- ments of the large intestine occurring consecutively to typhoid fever and attended with obstinate constipation and gaseous distension ot the gut. It does not appear that the distension was occasioned by tlie contracting cicatrices of ulcers. Clemens records the foUowing curious case. A male, a;t. 23 was freed from a tertian ague by an attack of diarrhffia and tenes mus, having previously sulTered from severe gastric derangement A year later he consulted Clemens for copious vomitmg of chylous matter, which was preceded by borborygmi, malaise, and cohck) pains, and was followed by a copious sweat. It occurred alternate davs, and was attended with constipation. One eighth of a gram 0 ar.seiiic witli potash, daily, eftected a cui-e in eight days. Haiiley related to the Pathological Society the results of expen ..icnts mad. on two young puppies, a sickly dog, a healthy dog, an a common snake. The object was to see whether inoculation Mit