lib REPORT ON THE INSTITUTES OF MEDICINE. body. In some parts, cells closely resembling cartilage-corpuscles are observed. Some of the worms measure several inches in length, and are from one to three lines in breadth. Tarre calls it the Diplosoma crenata, Hogg says that it is wrong to attribute certain special diseases of the skin to a vegetable parasite peculiar to each. The same fungus is peculiar to all, and ought rather to be looked upon as the result, and not the cause, of the disease. Tox, on the other hand, looks upon parasites as the real agents in the production of diseased hair, which, in his opinion, is the true parasitic affection. In all cases of skin-disease, if there be a parasite present in a state of growth, the hairs will be found diseased; when the growing fungus is absent, the hairs are unaffected. Other structures besides the hairs are, however, involved. Eruptive disease may be present, although not necessarily. Example—Tinea decalvans. Eruptions are evoked by a host of irritants besides parasites, whereas affection of the hairs, which Eox says is the true parasitic disease, can only be produced by the presence of a fungus. Eemove the affection of the hairs, and notliing diagnostic of the ravages of the parasite remains ; take away, on the other hand, the eruption, and the true parasitic disease is still there. He beUeves, moreover, that the existence of an eruption is necessary for the development of the parasite. Lowe's views are similar to the above, and he also, with Eox and Hogg, looks upon the fungi affecting the human surface as mere varieties of one common species. Hassall says the Fihrio lineola are not exactly linear; but slightly enlarged, and rounded at either extremity, hke a dumb- bell. That they are endowed with the power of voluntary motion, and are rapidly developed in feebly acid or alkaline urine, especially that containing much animal matter (albumen). The Bodo urina- rius are round or oval-shaped bodies, possessing two or three cdia. They multiply by fmiparous reproduction. They are developed under similar conditions to Vibrio lineola. Lastly, Hogg describes a peculiar fungus, occasionally met mth in alkaline urine. Ex- posure to the air and the presence of albumen accelerate its development. Van Beneden took a quantity of Echinococci from the liver of a pig, and put them into milk in one, and into albumen of the hen's egg in another, case. By keeping them at about the temperature of