PUBLIC HYGIENE. 473 IV. FOOD, STIMULANTS, AND MEDICINES. The 'Lancet' of October 29th, 1859, p. 443, contaiiis a leading article advocating legislation on the subject of the adulteration of food. Passages from speeches of Lord Brougham and the Hon. W. Cowper are quoted in support of a biU introduced into the House of Commons by Mr. Scholefield. a. Flour and Bread. Kmg'elstein.—On the Medico-legal Inspection of Flour and Bread. (Henke,3.) Griepenkerl,—On Ergot of Rye, and of other Graminese. (Casper, 13, i.) Niemann (of Magdeburg).—Communication of an Opinion of the Medical Council for the Prussian Province of Saxony, relative to the Noxious Influence of Ergot of Rye. (lb., 14, i.) Anonymus.—Bread of " Quick-grass" and Potatoes. (lb., 13, 2.) Besides the accidental admixture of the flour of wheat and rye with the flour of the seeds of other graminese, wliich, like diseased rye^ or ergot, are very unwholesome, Kuugelstein enumerates a variety of adulterations ascribed to the malice of man. Thus we hear of sand, ashes, bone, lime, and white lead, as frequent in- gredients ; and are informed that in England the cheap sulphate of baryta is daily bought by millers and bakers in quantities of many hundredweights, to be mixed with flour and bread. These ground- less denunciations are but the echo of the gross exaggerations of a portion of oui- EngHsh press. The author, after having shown that good flour may spoil by undue exposure to moistiure, enumerates the methods of testing flour for its qualities. One is to make a mass of dough with water, and test it for its elasticity; another consists in pressing a handful of flour, and placing the compressed lump upon the table. To be good, it must retain the shape given it by the hand, and not collapse. The admixture of gypsum or bone-earth causes immediate collapse of the lump. (The best flour if very dry and not over-finely dressed, wiU frequently not retain its shape, but coUapse, while flour rendered moist by exposure to the atmosphere, or preservation in a damp place, will retain it) The addition of prepared chalk may be discovered by addiu"- hydro- clilonc acid to a mixture of flour and water; the adcfition of common salt and alum, by the taste. The author then refers to the traces of copper natui-aUy found