GENERAL PATHOLOGY AND SYMPTOMATOLOGY. 131 pigment in the radiating pigment-cells, the active state of these cells showing concentration of the pigment around the nucleus. Robin describes certain cystic tumours whose walls are colum- nated like those of the auricles of the heart, or " a vessie colonnes." The columns have sometimes quite the appearance of muscle, but contain no striated or non-striated muscular fibres ; they consist only of bundles of fibres, among wliich are occasionally elastic. The contents are various—puriform or mucous, turbid or transparent. These tumours occur in many different parts. Vtjlpian publishes some inquiries relative to the duration of the contractility of the heart after death. In a decapitated criminal the right auricle acted for five hours, the autopsy not having been commenced till twenty-four hours after death. Independent rhytli- mical movements were observed in the right auricle of the dog's heart twenty-six houi's after cessation of artificial respiration. An undulating movement was observed tliirty-four hours after death. It often continued when strong galvanic and mechanical ii-ritation failed to produce contraction. KussMAUL shows that chloroform injected into the arteries of dead animals prevents putrefaction, but if injected during life it speedily produces it. He ascribes the difference to the circumstance, that after the cliloroform has destroyed the vitality of the tissues in the latter case, it is washed away by the blood, and so cannot exert its preservative action. The case is the same as when a limb mortifies after frostbite ; the return of the circulation brings with it three conditions higUy favorable to putrefaction, viz., warmth, oxygen, and water. The blood continued to circulate in the dead limbs in the experiments performed by Kussmaul until putrefaction had visibly set in, as declaredby the odour and colour of the skin. When all circulation had ceased in the leg and the greater part of the tliigh, in consequence of thrombosis, a concentrated solution of iodide of potassium was injected under the skin of the sole of the foot; after four and a half hours the salt was detected in the urine, and con- tmued to pass off copiously by this channel until the death of the animal, twenty-four hours later. Kussmaul supposes that the channel tlirough which the salt reached the moving blood from the putrid limb, must be the microscopic, plasmatic, vascular system of the connective tissue discovered by Virchow. Difinision and capillary attraction probably operated to transmit the saline solution alon<T these channels, aided also materially by the suction-po-wer of the