N KB VOL'S SYSTEM. iOl ])k'otic efTusioii, is recorded by Duuiax. The symptoms came on suddenly, as severe paiu in tlie loins, extending like a girdle round the abdomen, not increased by pressure on the vertebral coliuiin, and complete paraplegia yvith. unimpaired sensation. Death occurred on the eighteenth day. Post-mortem showed no other essential disease than is above stated. Hajion records two cases of chorea treated by numerous cauter- izing applications of concentrated nitric acid to the dorsal and lumbar spinal regions. From sixty to eighty slight ulcers were made, Avhicli Iicaled without apparent cicatrices. Other means had been tried in vain. Improvement speedily ensued, and after two repetitions of the proceeding the first case (a severe one) was cured in tlu-ee weeks. Henoch directs attention to the occurrence of paiu in the Iiead, depending on disorder of the female sexual organs. The pain may be frontal, \^ertical, occipital, or unilateral. The uterus is most fre"- queutly the organ in fault. He mentions two cases, in one of whicli a head pain had continued for four and in the other six years. In both a cure was effected by treatment directed to the healing of erosions of the uterus. He remarks on the efficacy of emetics in lieadaches, but contests tlie view that they act as mere evacuants. After relating a case of cerebral rheumatism. Trousseau subjoins the following general remarks. There are tlirce forms of cerebral rheumatism. The first and most dangerous is the so-called apoplectic (in the sense imderstood by older writers), characterised by collapse and coma alone, without paralytic phenomena. Trousseau, however, himself met with a case in which, after pains in the back and para- plegia, there came on suddenly hemiplegia and amam-osis of the oppo- site side, while the dorsal pain disappeared. These latter symptoms soon gave way, and recovery ensued. A second form is the menin- geal, as in a case related by Gosset, in Mhich, after delirimn and violent excitement, coma came on, and the autopsy showed acute meningitis. The tliird form is the delirious; it is the most impor- tant, but the most difficult to diagnose, because it is easily con- founded with similar states. Thus, such cases are to be excluded m which delirium ensues in the course of acute rheumatism, because 111 many individuals all notable febrile movement is attended with delirium.- The same is true of delirium occurring in topers. On the other hand, many cases arc to be included of insanity or mania which show themselves in llu; course of acute rheumatism. Even