REPORT ON LEGAL MEDICINE, ETC. 470 About twenty years ago tlie mortality among the English troops in Kingston, Jamaica, amounted to ia8 in looo per annum. Tlie barracks were in consequence removed to a high, mountain station, about 3800 feet above the level of the sea. In the first ten years the mortality remained as low as 14 per 1000 per annum, scarcely exceeding the mortality at Eome. But since 1851 the new station, Newcastle, has been visited by cholera and yellow fever successively, teaching the important lesson that mere elevation and healtliiness of a site will not suffice as safeguards against the deadly diseases of the plains. During the first ten years fever and dysentery prevailed amongst the troops, wliich diseases diminished, however, as the ground around the cantonment was freed from underwood and rank vegetation, and well trenched and drained. When MiLEOY visited Newcastle, in 1851, the latrines of the barracks were in a very offensive state, although fifty pounds had been spent for quicklime to improve them. Newcastle is situated at an inconvenient height. The cantonment of Maroon Town is only about 2000 feet high. Stoneylull barracks are 1200 feet high, and though, Hke Maroon Town, situated most salubriously, have nevertheless been abandoned. It is clear that local and domestic hygiene only can keep a good climate and a good site salubrious. Livingstone and Kiek describe some cases of fever observed daring their latest expeditions. They are not very typical in symptoms, and are amenable to treatment, purgatives and quinine proving generally successful. Quinine did not prove a preventive. They found existing within a short distance from the coast a healthy region, well suited for the residence of Europeans. III. HYGIENE OF AUTS, TEADES, MANTJFACTUEES, AND PEOFESSIONS. The 'Medical Times' of January a2d, 1858, gives a leading article on the health of the English army and navy. a. Lucifer-match mannfacture. Measures which are to be taken for the protection from Phosphorous Disease of the Workpeople in Lucifer-match Manufactories. Report of the Royal Prussian Deputation for Medical Atfairs. (Casper, 13, 2.) This is a compilation of the results of the reports of all the provincial governments, and the presidency of police, upon the