23 REPORT ON THE INSTITUTES OF MEDICINE. fibre of the bliulder be isolated, it will be found to terminate as in volimtaiy muscle; connective tissue investing not only the fibre, but eacli of the separate portioTis into which it ultimately divides. The author considers that the " sarcous elements" of voluntary muscle are represented by the lines of dots visible in the muscular fibres of the bladder. Budge counted the muscular fibres in the gastrocnemius of the frog, and found that their nmnber increased as the animal grew; he could not, however, find how the increase took place. Meissxek says that the non-striated muscles, when in a state of contraction, have striae upon them; he noticed this in fibres from the bladder of the cat and rabbit, and the spleen of the dog and sheep. Valentin found that during active contraction the muscles absorb oxygen, and give out carbonic acid gas. And Arnold observed that the heart of a frog, whether cut out or left in the body, beat slower and less forcibly in proportion as the surrounding air became rarified. If chloride of lime be placed along with the heart under the air-piimp, the pulsations cease altogether as soon as the organ has lost 15 per cent, of its water. Mechanical and electrical stimuli can still, however, induce the heart to contract. Muscles, under the air- pump, gave out a very considerable amount of carbonic acid. Arnold says that the want of oxygen, and, of water is the cause of the cessation of the muscular contractions. Callibtjeces made some experiments on the influence of heat on the peristaltic movements of the intestines, ureters, bladder, and pregnant uterus of animals. He found that a moderate warmth greatly increases the force and number of the peristaltic contractions. In the separated uterus of a bitch the con- tractions induced by gentle heat are powerful enough to expel a KtJPFPEB caUs attention to the fact that tendinous attacliments limit the effect of nerve stimuli on muscles. Thus, in the rectus ab- dominis a stimulus applied to a nerve supplying one part of the muscle will not cause contraction in another. Techneii experimented upon himself in order to ascertain what increase of muscidar power exercise induces. He used dumb-bells during two hours after break- fast for two months; in wliich period his strength so increased, that instead of 104 be was able to make 692 movements before feeling fatieued. Wundi-'s researches were made upon the elasticity ot the animal tissues in general; he found that the tendon of a calf has