16 RllPOllT ON THE INSTITUTES OF MEDICINE. the skin of fishes and of the rays of the fins; and found that the same laws wliich hold good in the structure of the endo-skeleton apply equally to the exo-skeleton. Recklinghausen made a quantitative analysis of bones, and found that the inorganic matter, at various ages, difi'ered very little either as regards the relative or absolute quantity present. The difference of age is chiefly seen in the quantity of accessory substances. The analysis of the spongy, and of the solid parts of the bone resembled each other very closely. The results he obtained are therefore seen to be in many respects different from those of previous observers, Heintz, Bibra, &c., as well as of Bezold, who found that the chemical composition of the skeleton of vertebrated animals varies at different ages. The quantity of chlorine diminishes as life advances, while that of sulphur and phosphorus increases, especially the latter. Magnesia increases in relative proportion to chalk and organic substance. The iron also increases proportion- ately with the organic matters. The fixed alkalies, on the other hand, remain stationary. Lewison placed silver rings on the periosteum of the leg-bones of pigeons, and on killing them from two to eleven months afterwards found that they had caused an exudation, and a copious deposit of bony matter. Pick relates some experiments on animals, the results of which led him to the conclusion, that the form of particular bones greatly depends on mechanical influences. As a general rule, bones have a tendency to grow in the direction of the least resistance. In his monograph, Luschka treats of the development and rela- tions of the vertebral, sternal, and pelvic joints. He divides all the joints of the body into two great classes, one of which he calls hollow joints {Iwhle knochenverbindungen), and the other soUd (WiWe knochenverbindungeu). The hollow joints he again divides into perfect (pandiarthrosis), and half joints (hemiarthrosis). The latter are those usually termed synartlu-osis, and it is of these that he principally treats on the present occasion. In seven skulls out of sixty, Luschka found a small, irregular, four-sided bone in front of the os lachrymale. In two of the skulls there was a bone of this description on both sides of the head. Wittich says, tliis bone is neither the os lachrymale externum of Rousseau, nor the satura longitudinalis imperfecta of Weber. Maetin says, that the humerus is a bone twisted upon its axis.