DISEASES AFFECTING THE GENERAL SYSTEM. 147 deceives the practitioner by leading liim to imagine that it is a sub- stantive malady. An accoiuit of a yellow-fever epidemic at Rio Janeiro, which ill the space of a month destroyed 823 individuals out of the crew of five ships of Avar (French), is given by M. Berciiox. He ))oints out several particulars in wliich it differed notably from paludal fi'vers. (i.) It is, as a rule, confined to the American continent. (3.) It prevails on the sea-coast. (3.) It is not an endemic, being often absent for some years, (4.) Its course is that of epidemics, having n period of invasion (rapid), of increase, of decline. (5.) One attack, instead of rendering the individual predisposed to relapses, afl'ords an immunity from them. (6.) Yellow fever leaves no such sequelm as paludal fever; no enlarged spleen, &c. (7.) Quinine is far less ser- viceable in yellow than in paludal fever. Eead publishes the result of 990 re-vaccinations in the 30th Ecgi- ment. Out of 193 bearing marks of previous variola, a perfect vesicle was obtained in 113, a modified in 31, none in 51. Out of 695 bearing good marks of former vaccination, a perfect vesicle was obtained in 357, a modified in 130, none in 308. Out of 84 bear- ing doubtful marks of former vaccination, a perfect vesicle was obtained in 36, a modified in 33, none in 35. Out of 18 bearing no marks of either small- or cow-pox, a perfect vesicle was obtained in 8, a modified in 4, none in 6. He refers to the observations of M. Laiuie on the same subject, and agi-ees with him fully in several propositions, of which the most important are the following :—(i.) The practice of re-vaccination is a very important hygenic measure, to which the variolated and vaccinated should be subjected. (3.) Vaccine matter taken from re-vaccinated adults Avill produce fine in- oculablc pustules. (3.) With adults, the matter should be inserted more deeply than just below the epidermis. (4.) Lymph from im- perfect or modified pustules of re-vaccinated adults will originate, in adults or childi-en, perfect vesicles fully corresponding with the "pearl on the rose-leaf" description. Husband affirms with reference to the " Instructions for Vacci- nators," lately issued by the Privy Council, that ten years' experi- ■ence on a large scale justifies him in stating, the use of lymph, preserved in hermetically sealed capillary tubes, for even months or years, to be equally efficient and safe as the use of Ijonplr direct from the arm. Schneider affirms the following propositions relative to the action