CIRCULATORY SYSTEM. 211 of friction; it may be moderate, yet friction be absent, and very copious, and yet friction exist. (2.) That the presence of friction- sound is not necessarily a proof of the existence"of pericarditis; a ■ loose, floating piece of organized fibrous tissue, or roughened sur- faces, may produce the sound. Both milk-patclies and very close adliesions Gairdner believes may occasion quasi-fi-iction-sound. (3.) That tlie distinction of exo- from endocardial murmurs is by no means always easy j the former may be confounded with mitral-valve murmiu-, or regm-gitant tricuspid, or arterial puLnonic murmui-, or with aneurismal. Sappey affirms that in cirrhosis of the Hver a collateral venous circulation is formed by the enlargement of small veins in the sus- pensory ligament, which communicate with veins in the anterior abdominal parietes, and form a channel tlirough wliich the blood passes downwards to the crural vein and so ou to the heart. By this means the occuiTcncc of ascites is obviated, TuENER publishes two cases of aneurism of the thoracic aorta producing obstruction of the thoracic duct. In neither was there any emaciation, collateral chamiels for the Ijonph having probably been developed. A case of aneurism of the hepatic artery is recorded by Wallmanx, of Yienna. Tlie tumour was as large as a small child^s head; it had obliterated the cystic duet, but not apparently the hepatic nor the common duct. Reid records a case of chlorosis, in which a murmur was heard at the apex of the heart as well as over the piUmonary artery. As the patient improved, the latter murmui- became much less distinct, and the one at the apex was not constant. Beau has recently tested tlie statement of M. Larcher as to the existence of hypertrophy of the left ventricle of the heart during pregnancy. Observations made upon a hundi-ed cases of women between the ages of twenty and thirty, dying during childbirth, have satisfied liiin that M. Larcher's views are entirely correct. _ Chauveau pubHshes the following researches respecting murmurs in the vessels and their semiotic significance. He satisfied himself first of all that, in the normal condition, no murmur is produced bv the circulating blood. He then shows by experiment—(I) That muxmurs stand in no direct connection with the quantity or qualitv of the mass 6f the blood. (II.) That unevennesses of the inn r surface, if they do not modify tlic form of the vascular canal, pro-