SYPHILIS. 323 " via aromatiqiic" slioiJd be used. Pliagedeua is to be ai-rested by oue-drachm doses of the potassio-tartrate of iron taken three times a day, and by dressing the sore twice daily with the same solution. Ricord de])recates the use of fatty matters, particularly those contain- ijig mercury as beiug most iujuiious to chancres. The simple chancre is transmitted to a person who has never had syphilis, only in the form of a simple chancre. The infecting chancre has sloped edges and not cupped; its base is indiu'ated, the hardness being elastic and cartilagi- nous, and abruptly circumscribed. Tliis induration never precedes ulceration. It begins in the &st Aveek, and developes itseK during the second. In chancres, on the verge of the anus and upon the mucous membrane of the vagina, it is but slightly marked; and here it feels like a piece of parchment subtending the siu'face of the chancre. This peculiar indm-ation of the base of the infecting chancre may be masked for a time by simple inflammatory swelling, but it becomes obvious Avhen the latter subsides. The infecting chancre is generally a sohtary one, but it is occasionally multiple. It gives rise to an indolent multiple bubo wliich does not, of itself, suppurate, although it is not insusceptible of suppuration, and abscesses may, indeed, ■ result from struma, &c. The indurated indolent bubo is a very per- sistent symptom. There can be no infecting chancre without an indurated symptomatic bubo. When indurated, the chancre is no longer a pm-ely local affection. The indiu-ation is the &st symptom of a diathesis; it is the prelude to constitutional syphilis, and is neces- sarily followed by the symptoms peculiar to syphilis within six months. In non-s3i)hilitic subjects the infecting chancre is always trans- mitted in the same species. _ EicoED divides syphiUs into tlu-ee stages :—i. Indurated chancre with corresponding bubo. 2. Within the first few months, affections of the superficial tissues, the skin and mucous membranes. 3. Mec- tions of the deeper tissues, wliich rarely appear before six months. The virus is only inoculable diu-ing the first period. The indu- rated chancre is never produced more than once in the same subject. Inoculation with the virus of an indiu-ated chancre, performed upon a person who has ah-eady had such a chancre, is either sterile, or it gives rise to a sore M-ith a soft base, resembling a simple chancre in appearance, but propagating itself in a third healthy person as an mclurated chancre. Kicord has never seen constitutional symptoms iollow a chancre that has been destroyed within the first four days lie therefore cauterizes and kiUs syphilis in the germ. When mk\.