DISEASES AFFECTING THE GENERAL SYSTEM. 151 desquamatioiij a well-marked variolous eruption came out upon liim. A case of measles, after one da/s exposure to the atmosphere of the same ward was removed, but nevertheless on the nineteenth day showed variolous eruption. Two other cases afford evidence as to the possible co-existence of constitutional syphilis and variola. Bamberger infers that a cliild vaccinated with lymph taken from a sj^liihtic subject, may, by this means alone, contract sj'phihs. 01. terebinth, has been found successful in trismus neonatorum, administered in frequent small doses. Banking pubhshes a lecture on diphtheria, in which he de- scribes the disease as one wholly new to this country. The symptoms may be very slight at first, and unless the throat be inspected, and the false membrane discovered, no alarm would be felt. In other cases the child sickens, with rigors and vomit- ing and general prostration, the tliroat becomes tumid and vas- cular, and rapidly coated with false membrane, which extends ere long to the air passages, and produces croupy breatliing. Deceptive appearances of improvement sometimes occur, even after the breath- ing has been embarrassed, and presented the croupy sound. The duration varies from two days to two weeks or more. Among the consecutive lesions have been observed paralysis of the muscles of deglutition, as well as a state approaching more or less to complete hemiplegia. Post-mortem examination shows the mucous sui-face livid and excoriated, but free from ulceration or slougliing. In cases " where there has been much external swelling, the submaxillary glands will be found engorged, and the svu-rouuding cellular tissue infiltrated \xit\i a sanious pus." Dr. Banking disbeheves in the theory of diphtheria essentially depending upon a parasitic fimgus growing on the site which the disease affects. He considers the great dis- tinctive mark between diphtlierite and croup to be the locality chiefly affected. The former commences in the fauces, and extends to the larynx; the latter commences in the larynx and trachea, and may not extend upwards at aU. From mahgnant scarlatma and putrid sore-tlu:oat he tliinks diphtheria can always be distinguished by a careful examination of the parts. Infectious he considers it to be only in a limited degree. In the matter of treatment no deplet- ing measures are admissible. Tr. Ferri Muriatis, Pot. Chloras., and quinine may be used; but Dr. Ranking prefers the former, wliich he also recommends as a local application to the tlu'oat, rather than nitrate