156 IIKPORT ON I'UACTlCAli MKDICINK lous pustule passes into the equally specific product of constitutional syphilis, tlie change taking place iii such a manner that it cannot be determined when the eniorcsccncc ceases to be the one and begins to be the other. It is impossible not to assume tliat the individual efflorescence, as soon as it is placed under the influence of tlie two forms of disease holding sway over the system, contains also in itself the product of both." According to this, it seems undeniable that if a healthy child were inoculated with vaccine matter from another labouring under constitutional syphilis, the latter disease might also be communicated as well as the vaccine infection. A highly interesting controversy is debated between Lohinseu and Eeder, as to the evils arising from the use of mercury in syphilis. The former considers such symptoms as ckronic extensive periostitis, circumscribed tophi, caries, necrosis, nocturnal osteal pains, serpigi- nous skin ulcers, and various skin eruptions, to be the result of chronic mercui-ial poisoning. He affirms that on testing the mine of various patients Avho had taken mercury before and after the administra- tion of pot. iodid., the metal was detected in the secretion after and not before the use of the iodide, so that it appeared to have remained in the system luitil eliminated in this way. Eeder rephes that on careful examination of the mine of various syphilitic patients who had taken mercury, and were under the influence of potass, iodid., the metal in no case could be discovered. He points out that sucli symptoms as Loruiser mentions develope themselves without the in- fluence of mercury, and are then equally amehorated by potass, iodid.; that in other cases m here mercury has been taken, thev arc cui'ed by further administration of mercury; and that potass, iochd. does not, though ever so long continued, obtain always a certain cure, although it efl'ects the removal of mercury from the system. Fm'- ther, he remarks, that patients M'ho have taken no mercury for syphilis have just the same relapses as those who have taken it; that patients who take mercuiy for other diseases (as of the eye) do not have such symptoms as syphilitic; and that workmen mIio are exposed to merciuial influence suffer in a very difl'erent manner from those who are the subjects of constitutional syphilis. The following are some of the results obtained by Duchek, at Lembcrg, from 120 autopsies of ])ersons dying of intermittent fever. The blood was scanty, contained dark pigment in the form of small, roundish, well-defined granules, which were present in nearly equal amount in all tlie vessels; they were not contained in pigment cells;