REPORT ON THE INSTITUTES OF MEDICINE. 40 Handfield Jones adopts Lislei-'s views relative to the action of certain nerves in arresting or diminishing action. And from physiological as well as clinical data (many examples of which he brings forward), he believes that it may be regarded as a funda- mental truth, that one and the same afferent nerve may, according as it is acting mildly or energetically, either exalt or depress the functions of the nervous centre upon which it acts. Upon this theory of inhibitory influence he explains the distant effect of many morbid states, as well as the action of counter-irritants and certain external stimulants. ScHRCEDER VAN DER Kolk's M'ork forms the fourth volume of the New Sydenham Society's series. As stated by the translator in his preface, the chapters devoted to the consideration of the influence of the corpora olivaria in the articulation of words, and on the variety of lesions of speech which accompany morbid affections of different parts of the brain and medulla oblongata, are par- ticularly worthy of attention. His remarks on the intermittent character of many convulsive and neuralgic attacks, wliich are yet dependent on persistent causes, are calculated to afford important aid in the establishment of the diagnosis m difBcult cases, where the most regularly recurring fits of severe suffering, though truly intermittent, are nevertheless the result of organic disease. The histological part of the work is illustrated by plates. Brown-Sequard, in commencing his lectures in Dublin, stated ' that his object was to explain the origin of four kinds or groups of nerve-fibres, theii' course in the cord, and their place of decussation. (I.) What are usually termed conductors, he asserts, contain several species of nerve-fibres, conveying various sensitive impressions, such as tickling, pain, touch, muscular sense and direction, and tempera- ture. Besides these there are still other species of nerve-conductors. (2.) The voluntary motor. (3.) The vaso-motor. (4.) The nu- tritive, concerning whose separate existence he is as yet dubious. That the phenomena of changes in secretion and nutrition are Teferable to nerve-influence can, however, be proved. Thus, by irritating the Hngual, the salivary secretion is increased. This influence is distinct from the vaso-motor, as galvanism appUed to the nerves of vessels diminishes both secretion and animal heat. He •moreover says, that all sensory fibrils, except those conveying the sense of muscular contraction, pass into the posterior roots of the spinar nerves. That it is doubtful whether some of the excepted