REPORT ON PRACTICAL MEDlCINlf. 168 the individual ones were perceptible from five to eight days. Two or three fresh crops often came out at various later periods. Tar more frequent was the papulous eruption, which was present in nearly every marked case. The usual seat was the surface of the abdomen, or the thorax. No connection could be ascertained between the appearance of the papulous and maculous exanthem; neither deter- mined nor excluded the manifestation of the other. Herpes zoster occurred with about the same frequency as usual, and occasionally herpes labialis. Inilammation of the lungs was more frequent than in former epidemics, not hypostatic only, but rapidly issuing in exuda- tion, wliich solidified a large extent of tlie lungs. In some cases this was preceded by violent pulmonary hemorrhage. Diarrhoea and bloody stools occurred very often. Enlargement of the spleen was frequent, but by no means corresponded in degree with the seve- rity of the disease. In almost all the grave cases the chlorides of the urine were considerably diminished; their complete absence was always ominous; if it lasted more than twenty-four hours, it was one of the very worst signs. Albumen was also more than usually fre- quent in tlie urine ; it was rarely foUowed by Bright's disease, wliicli however appeared in several cases in which the urine contained much blood. In one remarkable case {typhus ambulatorius), the patient, a stout joui'neyman baker, died suddenly, after tliree weeks of slight feverish disorder, with apparently rheumatic pains not severe enougli to confine him to bed. Typhous ulceration was found in the intes- tines, with a minute perforation, through which some fsecal matter had escaped. In numerous cases infiltrations of the subcutaneous areolar tissue took place, never before the third week, and not dm-- ing convalescence, but while the disease was at its height. They Avere very painful, extensive, and attended fldth stony induration. Suppuration in most cases succeeded, though tardily. Their appear- ance was attended with aggravation of all the symptoms. The arms, legs, and especially the vicinity of the parotid glaiid, were the parts oftenest affected. In several cases sudden shrinking of indistinctly fluctuating tumours was followed by abscess in the lungs, the spleen, and the kidneys, and by speedy death. Sometimes there occurred eruptions of pustules and pm-ulent vesicles scattered over the body, attended by increased or relapsing fever, and increased danger. Relapses were not uncommon, and patients suffering with advanced tuberculosis and with intermittent fever sometimes were attacked in the hospital by typluis. The post-mortem appearances