308 R14P0RT ON SURGERY. artery above the collar-bone, and it immediately ceased when the vessel was tied. The ligature separated on the nineteenth day, and tlie patient recovered rapidly. Clarke's second patient, set. 40, was an engineer, of dissipated habits. The aneurism occupied the upper part of the axilla. It seemed to have commenced four or five months before, suddenly, Avhilst at M'ork. The subclavian artery was tied in the third part of its course. No cldoroform was given. Secondary haemorrhage oc- curred on the foui'teenth day, and recurred several times on the three following days, the patient dying on the fourth. Sectio cadaveris.— 1'he subclavian artery was completely divided. The ends, half-an-inch apart, and both open, the proximal without any clot; but the distal end, one inch distant from the aneurism, contained a semifluid clot. Semiflmd blood surrounded the end of the vessel and filled the clavicular triangle. The sac was thin and contained but little clot. In Green's case, the tumour, the size of a small hen's egg, was at the lower end of the superficial femoral artery. Pressure was made with two pear-shaped leaden weights over the upper part of the vessel. A complete cure was obtained. Teale treated an oval anem'ism, about the size of a small lemon, in the left ham by digital compression of the femoral artery against the pubes, from the a6th to the 30th of October, during twelve hours each day. After this date, a ring tourniquet was applied. The swelling became a little smaller, harder, and pulsation was less strong. November 12th and 14th, Teale manipulated the sac, with a view to disturb the fibrine within it; and, an hour and a half after the last manipulation, pulsation ceased, and the tumour had become solid. Child's patient was young and healthy. The aneurism at first filled the ham, bulged prominently, and pulsated vigorously. After one week's compression, the tumour had considerably solidi- fied, and a favorable result was expected. Bone's patient, set. 37, was in broken health from long service in the East Indies. The aneurism was recent. The treatment con- sisted in compression and the exhibition of salines. Pemberton treated a case by light pressure upon the middle tliird of the femoral artery with a tourniquet, the leg being flexed upon the thigh. In twelve hours the tumour had become hard and perfectly free from pulsation, and a perfect cure resulted.