DISEASES OP CHILDUEN. 397 Coldstream has found iodide of potassium a very valuable re- medy in the treatment of those numerous ailments of children indi- cative of a tendency to hydrocephalus. It is more especially serviceable when there exists more or less of the scrofulous diathesis. Causon records a case in -wluch a patient in the last stage of hydrocephalus was cured by the administration of two grains of this medicine every two hours. Other measures had been tried unavail- ingly. Ballard believes that the only cause of purulent ophthalmia in infants is exposure to the bright light during the day. Wallmann proposes the name hydromeningocele for that patho- logical condition in whicli there is an external tumour filled with serous fluid and communicating with the arachnoid cavity. Yalenta describes a case of this kind in which the tumour was of considera- ble size. The safest treatment is that by compression, Betz states that the hypersesthesia in racliitis is situated in the nerves of the periosteum and bones. A painful condition of the bones is^ according to this author^ an early symptom of rachitis. Grey speaks very highly of the efficacy of cliloroform inhalations in the treatment of chorea. The chloroform is given with safety in large quantities^ precaution being taken to allow of free respiration and access of fresh air. This remedy is stated to have a much more rapid effect than other methods of treatment. II, DISEASES OF THE ORGANS OF RESPIRATION AND CIRCULATION. Pickford,—On the Marshall llall-Method of Treatment in Asphyxia. Lancet, i, 19, 1859. Wertheimer.—Ueber Angina pharyngea oedematosa im Kindesalter. [On the Angina Pharyngea CEdematosa of Childhood.] Journ. f. Kinderk., i and 2, 1859. (Sch., 7, 35.) Plagge.—Schwellung der dem Vagus auliegenden Drusenpaquete als warschein- liche Ursache des Asthma Millari. [Enlargement of the Glands near the Vagus as a probable Cause of Millar's Asthma.] Memorab. a, d. Prax,, iii, 7, 1858, (Sch., 4, 43.) Schottin.—Ueber Asthma thymicum. [On Thymic Asthma.] Arch. f. Physiol. Ileilk. N. F., iii, p. 205. (Sch. 7, 33.) Jendrassik.—Ueber den Bau der Thymusdriise. Jahrb. f. Kind., part ^, i8-8. (Canst., iv, 442.) Friedleben.—Die Physiologic der Thymusdriise in Gesundheit und Krankheit [The Physiology of the Thymus in Health and Disease.] Frankfurt a M., 1858. (Canst., iv, 443.)