DIGESTIVE SYSTEM. 243 cliphtlieritic exudation wodd commimicate the disease. The mate- rial ;yas taken from the fauces of a woman, in University College Hospital, supposed to be laboui-ing under diphtheria. The fauces and pharjTix of each of the dogs were scarified, and the abraded surfaces of two well rubbed over with the solid membrane, while the otlier two were inocidated in a similar manner with the yellow mucus. All the inoculations remained without effect. CoRAasABT, havmg satisfied himself of the power of the pancreatic secretion to digest albuminoid materials, points out that there may occur a duodenal dyspepsia, caused by the vitiation, insuificiency, or absence of this fluid, the symptoms of which appear only from the second or third hour of digestion, attended by a deeper-seated pam than is felt in gastric dyspepsia. If the quantity of gastric jmce be excessive, if the pylorus be unclosed, if the bile is not secreted in sufiicient amount, the action of the pancreatic juice wiU be interfered with, inasmuch as the gastric juice wiU be unneu- trahzed. A caseof intus-susception is recorded by Steele, of Abergavenny riiere the prolapsed bowel was replaced by powerful upward injec' ion of warm water per anum, and subsequent cautious narcotism Lhe intus-susception could be felt by the finger in the rectum. The :ase was seen and treated early. Two cases are related by DurBES>^B, in which he considers that ilood, or blood and pm-ulent matter, were discharged from the liver 7 ruptui-e into the intestine. The fii-st case is not conclusive • in lie second, a painful sweUing of the Hver subsided after evaiua- lons, per anum, of blood and pus. A summary of a paper by Eambeiigee, on perforation of the ermiform appendix, contains much matter of detail, wliich is weH orth reference. We can only notice some points. In six out of 'u cases, the lower tliirdof the vermiform appendix was perforated • . tlie same number the perforation was a hole; in the four others le whole circmnference was destroyed. The attendant peritonitis as three times circumscribed, seven times general, but in the latter .se here were always large, encysted coUections in the right abdo- mal region. In two cases fistida, had formed in the intestines yond the immediate vicinity of the original disease; in six cases ^Zt'aZ f .^"T''''^ ""^t'^' ^""^^^'S-^^- ^t'^t- the most -quent cause of the disease to be the formation of concretions ^rymg in size from that of a cherry to that of a bean. SJll^;;: