268 REPORT ON PRACTICAL MEDICINE. ScouTErrEN praises the preservative effects of frictions with oil, alternated with batlis, against morbid sequela3 of scarlatina and measles. It is rare that more than four frictions and two baths are required. Gull points out the fact, that in persons whose skin is very irritable, slight friction produces i}henomena similar to those of urticaria. This depends, he believes, on contraction of the muscular tissue of the skin. Bauensputjxg considers prurigo as a dermatosis rather than as a neuralgia, and locates the morbid action in the papillary bodies of the skin. The latter, he believes, minister to the sense of touch; the nerves alone either at their extremity or in then- course to com- mon sensation. Hypersesthesia of the nerves gives rise to neu- ralgia, hyperesthesia of the papillary bodies to itching or burning. In support of this view, he refers to cutaneous eruptions, the deeper- seated of which, as furuncles, never occasion itching, but only pain; wliile the more superficial are attended with severe itcliing. The author specially recommends baths containing Hyd. Bichlorid. (two drachms to a bath), which proved speeddy curative iji a very severe case of four- years' dm-ation, in which a variety of other means had been employed without success. Sulphur baths and sulphur ointment, tar ointments, and huile de cade, diluted with two parts of fat, have proved also more or less useful. SUBJECTS or GENERAL INTEREST. TVr_„„p--Medical Notes from the Continent; or, Sketches of the Universities. Hospitals, Lunatic Asylums, and Mineral Baths of Holland, Belgium. Germany, and Austria, Bavaria, Wurzburg. Edin. Med. Jour., Jan., 1859, p. 595- On Foreign Substances in various parts of the Body. lb., Feb., 1859, p. 7t>9- Chavasse.—Case of Poisoning by drinking water from a Leaden Cistern. Bnt. Med. Jour., April 23d, 1859. TTmm—On Idiosyncrasies. lb., June i ith, 1859. wXter.-The Influence of Weather on Disease and on the Human Frame. Lancet, June I Ith, 1859. , Thompson.-Observations on the Medical Administration of Ozonized uns. Mcd-Ciiir. Trans., 1859, vol. xlii, p. 349- . ,„.,„,i. a„d Beddoe.-A Comparison of the Mortality from different Causes in Austraha England. Edin. Med. Jour., Aug., 1859, p. loi. Cleland,—On the Use of Saccharated Lime in Medicine. lb., p. 113-