411 DISEASES OP CniLiUlEN. poultices or other meanSj and the soap then appKed; constitutional remedies are at the same time to be made use of. JIalago's remedy for tenia is composed of sulphate of limCj dry, and lime recently slacked, the two intimately mixed and applied to the part afl'ected. It is to be carefully watched, and removed at the end of a few minutes. Jessop relates the particulars of tb-ee cases of scarlet fever where, the eruption having been suddenly checked, the danger was immi- nent. Flannels steeped in hot mustard and water were applied to the tlu-oat, chest, abdomen, upper arm, and thigh, and stimulants given. The issue was successful. Leubuschee's observations refer to 12,0 cases of scarlet fever. The various forms which the disease assumed in the different cases are minutely described. In reference to the affections of the pha- rynx, we find the following :—In sbght cases there were reduess and swelling of the tonsils, pharynx, and parts adjacent. In more severe cases the appearances were of a diphtheritic character. In the latter a flaky substance separated (in favorable cases) in a few days, leaving a somewhat raw surface beneath. In worse cases ulceration followed. The pharygeal affection extended either to the nasal fossae, giving rise to an irritating discharge therefrom, or to the larynx, producing respiratory disturbances, the patients so affected dying with typhous symptoms and oedema of the lungs. Dropsy was observed in fifteen cases, and of these four died. The author considers the dropsy a part of the fever produced by the disturbance of the cutaneous cii-culation. The scarlet-fever in- toxication (as the author terms it) is not dependent on the presence of uraemia, inasmuch as it is often observed when no retention of urea in the blood is suspected. ScoTJTETTEN recommeuds the inunction of oil in order to prevent the sequel£E of measles and scarlet fever. The method is identical with that for some time followed in Germany. KosTLiN gives an accoimt of an epidemic of measles, and Guns- BEKG of another epidemic which prevaHed at Breslau In the latter case the epidemic differed from ordinary rubeola in respect to the character of the eruption, which resembled that described bv Veit as "h^emorrhagic measles." Laryngeal complications were fre- quent, and m some cases actual croupous exudation was observed in the larynx and trachea Wlien the eruption was severe, diarrhcBa was frequently observed about the second day.