321 SYPHILIS. true cyst-wall altered by pressure, as formerly supposed, but it cou- sists of laminated epithelium, as was demonstrated by Prescott llewett iu his lectures at the Koyal College of Surgeons. The ex- cision of the fibrous tunic does not seem to be so necessary in these, as in other tegumentary cysts; but when large and of long duration, and Avlien they have been inflamed, its removal is necessary. He points out the resemblance of some cystic and follicular growths which have suppurated, and are filled with granulations, and which exude a fetid sanies, to some varieties of cancer, and insists on the excision of every portion of the new growth. Small growths from the mucous follicles of the lip occasionally simulate epithelial caucer, and Birkett tliinks many cases of irlceration of the lip stated to be cancer, have been of this nature. He thinks that ranula, formed by dilatation of Wharton's duct, is extremely rare, and he does not record any case of this kind. He believes that, in most instances, subbngual cysts depend on a morbid state of Eivini's glands which are small vesicles in the mucous membrane of the floor of the mouth, and at the sides of the tongue. The injection of stimulating fluids often fails, and the most certain mode of cure is, by exciting suppuration. Gdnteu's report includes thi-ee cases of unusually large ranula. In two of them, a bristle could be passed through the orifice of Wharton's duct into the cavity of the cyst. Johnson's patient had a small "subcutaneous dermoid cyst" (Lebert) upon the forehead. It adhered firmly to the periosteum, and after its removal, a perforation was found in the subjacent bone, PoucHEB, firmly presses a pen dipped in the acid upon the centre of the swelling for four or five minutes. Simultaneously with the separation of tlie eschar, the cyst itself becomes separated from the surrounding tissues, and both may be pidled away together without pain or bleeding. SYPHILIS. lee.—Clinical Lecture on Sypliilitic Inoculation. Lancet, Jan. 29tli, 1859, P- 103 Ricord.—Lectures on Chancre, delivered by .M. R., Surg, to Hop. du Midi Paris" Published by Mr. Fournier, vvitli Notes and Cases, and translated from the French by C. F. Maunder, F.U.C.S., &c. 8vo, cloth, 8s. London, 1859, J- Churchill. Lbe teaches that those primary sypliilitic sores wliich axe charac- terised by specific adhesive inflammation, and which do not, unless 21