POISONS AND POISONING. 445 rus, some of this poison always remains uncliangedj and gives elabo- rate directions for finding it. Of the three different processes described, two are very troublesome and uncertain, while the third is entirely antiquated. Lassaigke enlarges upon the difficulty of finding phosphorus in organic matters. BiKKNEU shews by experiments, that the process of Lipowitz for discovering phosphorus in organic matters, which is based upon the property of phosphorus to form a peculiar compound Math sulphur, is very safe and certain. In the case of Lewinsky, the poison (phosphorus) produced no violent symptoms in the digestive organs during life, nor yet any remarkable effects discoverable after deatli. General decomposition of tlie blood seemed to be the cause of death. 18. JPicrotowine, Giinkel—Analysis for Picrotoxine in Cases of Poisoning, (Archiv der Pharm., 144, 14.) GiiNKEL extracts the organic substances with alcohol, after acidu- lation with tartaric acid. Picrotoxine (and strychnine) pass into solution. Erom the evaporated extract ether dissolves picrotoxine, while tartrate of strychnine remains undissolved. On evaporation, the ethereal solution deposits picrotoxine, which can be recognised by the usual tests. 19. Prussic Acid. Poisoning by Essential Oil of Almonds. (Pliarm., May, 583.) Two Suicides by Prussic Acid. (lb., July, 43.) Death from Prussic Acid. (lb., Nov., 294.) Brame.—Case of Death from Prussic Acid; Discovery of the Poison in the body three weeks after death. (Schmidt, 102, 292.) Hornidge.- Case of Poisoning by Cyanide of Potassium. (Med. Times, i, 80.) Schauenstein.—On Poisoning with Cyanide of Potassium. (Wicn. Aerzt!, 2, i.) In the first of the above cases, a child died after a dose of essen- tial oil of bitter almonds, sold instead of oil of sweet almonds, bv a druggist's assistant. ■* " In the case of deatli from prussic acid, the jury found that tlie deceased died from the effects of an over-dose of prussic acid, taken to relieve himself from pain. '