REPORT ON MlDWllERY, ETC. 412 \ EiT describes a form of measles characterised by the presence of petecliial patches instead of an eruption of tlie normal cliaracter, and which the author designates as hsemorrhagic measles. It occurs, according to his experience, chiefly amongst individuals in indigent cii'cumstances. In i6o cases it occurred eleven times. In sucli cases the fever is of a sthenic rather than of an asthenic character. The coiu'se of the disease was in all cases mild and without compli- cations. Cases of acute hfemorrhagic form of measles must not be confounded with those in wliich petechias appear at a later period during convalescence. TiioussEAU remarks, that during the eruptive period of measles diarrhoja, occasionally bloody, is not uncommon. The appearance of croupou.s affectioiis is unfavorable. Capillary bronchitis is almost always fatal when occuiTiug in cliildren under two months. Convidsious, at a later period of the disease and in young cliildren, are of very unfavorable omen. Schutz reports that in Nagold, in the year 1856, measles, of a very virulent character, carried off 10 per cent, of those attacked. Eespiratory complications had a large share in producing the mortality. Maye. states that erytheina nodosum is occasionally observed in infants, but more generally in older childi'en. In its simple form it is cliiefly seen on the leg and forearm, appears suddenly, lasts fi'om tive to seven days, and is unaccompanied by general disturbance. A hsemorrhagic form is also described. GiNTRAO examines the relations subsisting between varicella, variola, and varioloid. A'^aricella, he concludes, does not originate from variola, but varicella may arise imder the same conditions as variola. He does not think it proved that varicella can produce variola. With respect to the actual relation of the two, variola does not exclude varicella; the one may foUow the other in the same person; they have the relation of two independent poisons. Lastly, there is no apparent analogy between variola and varioloid on the one hand, and varicella on the other. Letouhneau believes that the sclerema and oedema of new-born cliikben is a condition depending primarily on congenital weakness, imperfect expansion of the kings, and defective hajmatosis. It is a slow asphyxia, the body becoming gradually cooled down, and the child remaiiiing in a state of organic torpor until death occurs. To establish his positions, the author adduces histories of seventeen cases.