POISONS AND POISONING. 435 HuBEu reports the case of a woman, forty years old, who died under symptoms of arsenical poisoning. The probability was strengthened by the result of the post-mortem examination, but no poison could be discovered in the body by chemical analysis. CiiEiSTisoN- records a number of murders by arsenic, in which the doses of poison were enormous, and in wliich large residues could be chemically discovered. Bloxdlot comes to the conclusion, at which most people had pre- viously arrived, that the process of Danger and Elandin, as pre- limmary to that of Marsh, may gfve rise to considerable losses of nrsemc, to prevent ^^-hichhe gives a long series of precautious. Prom several analyses of soil containing arsenic, of grass grown on arsemcal soil, and of animal matter mixed with arsenic, Odling comes to the conclusion that MarsVs process cannot be relied upon to detect mmute quantities of arsenic in the presence of organic matter; that is, under conditions in which arsenic most frequently has to be detected, and in wliich it can be most satisfactorily detected by Reinsch's process. The plan now adopted by Odlino- IS the same as that recommended in 1858 by Eose, of Berlin The organic matter to be analysed is dissolved in dilute, warm, hydro- chloric acid, and the solution distilled nearly to dryness The residue is then mixed with some fresh concentrated hydrochloric acid, and again distiUed with caution, to avoid the effects of a inomentary frothing. The residue is free from arsenic, which has aU passed mto the distillates, in which it can be recognised by Marsh s, EemscFs, or the sulphuretted hydrogen, and subsequent other tests. Ai-senic may also be separated, by distillation with hydrochloric acid, from certain metalHc salts which, according to the author, interfere mth Ma,rsh's reaction. The article by Schaeffeb refers to a woman, eet. 40, whose body liad been found very much burnt externaUy. In the tolerably well preserved gastro-intestinal canal, there was evidence of strong in flammation Arsenic was detected in the canal, and also in some vomited matters. ^uuic Obfila repeats that the spots and rings, obtained by the various arse„,c, .nstead of "terra alba," or "daff," j^.%te;"of T^S.