ABDOMEN. 287 adhesion which, was foinicl iu the rectum. It lived forty hours. The ileum was t^visted on itself about three inches above the cfecum. Hexnett saj's the csccura, with processus vermiformis, was cast off, and the patient recovered. Cabaeet mentions that a considerable length of colon protruded tlirougli tlie anus; it was returned by pressure with a gum-elastic sound, wliich Avas \vorn for several hours to prevent the boMel descending again. j\I'IviDD reports that a boy, eet. 7, had paroxysms of severe pain about an inch below the navel, but pressure could be borne at first over the whole belly. Afterwards pressure in the right iliac region gave pain. No constipation. Death one month after the first appearance of the acute symptoms. The child had occa- sionally had pain in the belly for a month before M'Kidd saw him. The caput cfecum and vermiform appendix were invaginated in such a way that the appendix was placed across the ileo-ccecal valve, and imperfectly blocked the apertiu-e. The invaginated parts were inflamed and gangrenous. Betz discusses the various theories of intus-susception, and lays little stress on the share Avhich the peristaltic movements of the bowel are supposed to take in producing intus-suscep- tion. He explains it by a mechanical theory. He supposes that a lump of fpeces sticking firmly in a narrow portion of gut is pushed forcibly downwards by flatus or ffeces from above into a wider piece of gut directly below it, the lump dragging doMai with it the narrower gut in which it is impacted; or traction from below, as by a polypus, may cause it. He confirms Billiets' and Tliompson's statements, that it occurs more often in men than in women. It is probable that in some cases the symptoms do not immediately manifest themselves. The first symptom is pain, winch, in little children, is very slightly increased by pressure. The passage of blood by the anus is a very important sign, and is always present in children. The separation of the gangrenous portion of gut is often preceded by an abundant flow of blood, inixed fl'ith fetid, gangrenous matters, and Ad here the small intes- tine lias been much distended, it is followed by a copious stool. Thompson's patient, set. 39, was five months pregnant when ad- mitted into the St. Marylebone Infirmary, 9th of March, 1859, and