NERVOUS SYSTEM. 45 cent, of water; in the crural nerves of one aged forty, from 6^'6 to 64'o per cent.; in the brachial of a rabbit, from 65 to 67, and in the sciatic of the same animal, from 68* i to 69" 2, per cent. Hahless says, that the sciatic of the frog, on an average, conducts electricity 14-86 times better than water. This he attributes to the chemical composition of the nerve. He confirms KoUiker's state- ment regarding the power of water in restoring the properties of nerves after they have been lost through the nerve becoming dry. The vapours of nitric and hydrochloric acids, he states, have the power of increasing for a time the sensibility of a nerve. Preiss beheves that sensory nerves can conduct centrifugal as well as centripetal impressions. The object of Althaus's communications to the ' Medical Times' is to prove that the muscles possess an inherent muscular irrita- bihty altogether independent of the nerves. The greater part of the papers is devoted to an historical review of the subject. He concludes by saying that Bernard's researches have been confirmed by Kolliker, who experimented both with woorara and conia, and that he (the author) has also obtained similar results, as the fol- lowing experiment shows. If the crural artery and veins be tied in one limb, so that the circulation of the blood is stopped, and the animal poisoned, by inserting some woorara under its skin. When galvanism is applied in a short time afterwards to the motor nerves of the limb, no muscular action ensues; but if the galva- nism be applied to the muscular substance itself, contractions are immediately induced. FinaUy, he mentions that the micro- scopic observations of Dr. Wundt are likewise in favour of an innate muscular irritability. He (Wundt) found that the mus- cular fibres are shortened when the poles of a galvanic battery are apphed directly to the muscular tissue. This phenomenon is not, however, observed when the nerve is stimulated. Althaus thinks that inherent muscular irritability is proved by—ist The microscopic observation of Bowman, showing a partial contraction ot muscular fibres, which have been entirely insulated from every extraneous tissue. 2d. By the experiments of Bernard, KoUiker and himself,^ with woorara, which kiUs the motor nerves and •leaves the muscles intact. 3d. By the microscopic observations of Jolrla^SlTi^atMU)! ''''' '''"^