REPORT ON PRACTICAL MEDICINE. 128 latter did for pliysiology. We can do no more than refer to it. So also with another essay of the same author, on ' Irritation and Irritability' wc have to quote the remark of Kussmaul, that we do not see how, with advantage to tlie reader, we can give a summary of the contents, at least within tlie hmits allotted to us. Snellen has examined experimentally the influence of various nerves upon the inflammatory process. He states, from observations on the ear of the rabbit, that " the relation of the sensory nerves to the vascular nerves is similar to their relation to the motor nerves. Irritation of the sensory nerves causes increased action of the vascular nerves of the same side upon the same part. Wlien the irritation is intense, this reflex action, just as is the case with the motor nerves, extends also to other regions; moreover, it is the spasmodically contracted condition of the wall of the vessels which essentially conditionates the succeeding state of atony, so that the force of the heart remaining the same, vascular dilatation must follow contraction without the nervous influence being lessened." He further ascertained that section of the sensory nerves did not essentially alter the process of inflammation, while section of the vaso-motor to some extent promoted it, and quite positively promoted the absorption of extravasated fluid, and the occurrence of cicatrization. So also when he inflamed both eyes, by dropping strong acetic acid into each, the course of the inflammation was shortened in the eye of the side on wliich the sympathetic cord had been divided. Snellen opposes the old view that section of the fifth pair produces corneitis by paralysing the nerves that preside over the nutrition of that part. He beheves the corneitis that ensues to result from mechanical irritation, &c., and shows that if the animal's ear is fastened in front of its eye, and the mucous secretion carefully removed, the cornea is kept free from inflammation. Gunning has studied carefully the motion of the blood, and its stasis. With respect to the influence of the nerves on the diameter of the vessels, he found, that in frogs, division of the rami communi- cantes of the sympathetic produced no marked effect; division of the sciatic plexus near the spinal cord had a marked effect in producing vascular injection, and increasing the rapidity of the current; pinching of the skin he found to cause contraction of the small arteries, but does not feel satisfied to assume a reflex action from the sensoiy or the vaso-motor nerves, because arterial contractions occur both spontaneously (even after division of the nerves) and associated