REPORT ON PRACTICAL MEDICINE. 154 below the fauces, by declension of power, and increase in the diffi- culty of breathing, swallowing, &c." He recommends, in such cases, syringing the throat by Coxeter's laryngeal syringe, with Liq. Calcis Chlorinat. in chamomile infusion (5!] ad ^xv), or with a few drops of creosote in the same. The vapour of these liquids is also to be in- haled, and the throat M'ashed out tlu-ee or four times a day. A poul- tice of chamomile flowers is to be put round the tliroat, and quinine, in infusion of the same, given internally. A report on diphtheria., by Ellis, from Crowle, Lincolnshire, gives a total of 133 cases in six months, the disorder not prevailing epidemically for the first two. Out of these 29 were adults, or above the age of 13. The number of deaths was 17. The soil is alluvial, well di-ained, and higlily cultivated. The usual treatment was employed, and its effects were sometimes magical. Tso scarlatina prevalent. EiGDEK furnishes a report from Canterbury, stating the number of cases occurring in his practice, of the foUo\^ing morbid states during the two years 1857, 1858 :—Of diphtheria 55, of pharyngitis 14, of stomatitis 5, of croup 3, of cancrum oris i, of scarlatina 57. Of the diphtheria cases 24 were adults, or above the age of 13. The total number of deaths from diphtheria were 13 in Mr. Eigden's practice, and 13 more occurred in Canterbm-y dui-ing the same time. All the deaths in Mr. Eigden's cases occurred among the children, and only one adult is found among the other 13 fatal cases. The scarlatina and diphtheria cases were " perfectly distinct." In several instances the lU'ine was examined, but no albumen was found. Ure recommends following M. Gamberini's recommendation—the employment of iodide of sodium in place of the potash salt in all cases in which the latter is foimd useful. It is blander, more assi- milable, and better borne by the stomach. Mahcet has found oxide of zinc an eiiicient remedy in cases of clu'onic alcoholic intoxication. It induces sleep, removes tremblings of the body and limbs, headache, giddiness, and hallucinations. The dose at fu'st was two grains bis die, one hour after a meal, increasing it gradually to six or eight grains bis die. MuECHisoN sliows, from the records of the London Fever Hos- pital, that while typhus and relapsing fevers (the epidemic) have, during eleven years, varied considerably, and recently diminislied in freciuency very much; the endemic fever, typhoid or pythogenic, maintains, and has throughout, a much more uniform nimiber.