WOUNDS, AND DISEASES OF THE BLOOD -VESSELS. 307 Pemburton.—Aneurism of the Popliteal Artery successfully treated by Flexions and Compression. lb., 3d Sept., 1S59. Ward.—Aneurism of the Riglit Popliteal Artery; Compression Treatment; Sloughing over the Artery; Ligature; Recovery. Med. Times and Gaz., ist Oct., 1859. A Case of Popliteal Aneurism ; Ligature of the Femoral Artery; Return of the Disease; Amputation. Brit, and For. Med.-Chir. Rev., April, 1859. Bulteel.—Wound of the Femoral Artery near its Termination ; Single Ligature in Scarpa's Triangle ; Recovery without Secondary Hferaorrhage. Hawkins.—Rupture of the Popliteal Vessels; Amputation. °Brit. Med. Journ., 29th Jan., 1859. ' PoRTEE relates that a woman was stabbed in the left side of the belly, and fatal collapse rapidly ensued. The weapon went through the cartilages of the false ribs; transfixed the stomach and divided the left renal artery. The cavity of the beUy was fiUed with- blood, but none was found in the stomach. Patterson says a sempstress, eet. 47, was seized with' slight paralysis of the right arm on the loth of July, dm-ing two or three weeks previously vision had been much impaired; on the 37th she had sudden coma, next day the left pupil was exceedingly contracted, and the right dilated. Death at nine a.m. on agtli. The fissure of sylvius and left cerebral hemisphere were covered with a layer of semi-coagulated blood. A small aneurism of the internal carotid artery was found close over the optic foramen, and the haemorrhage had flowed from a rent in its posterior wall. Stanley's patient, a deHcate man, twenty-four y ears-old, had a punc- ture made in liis left tonsil wliich was inflamed. Considerable bleedina- ensued, but he was able to walk home. On the foui-th night, bleedinS to about a pint occurred; it was arrested by the solid nitrate of silver. On the following morning, between ten and two o'clock, another loss of florid blood to one and a half pint. Ice was appHed, and dunng the next twenty-four hours very little blood was lost • but then a fourth hfemorrhage took place, and after a consultation, Stan- ley put a ligature upon the common carotid artery. Stanley's deligation of the subclavian artery occupied fifty-eia-ht nnnutes. At the autopsy diffuse suppuration of the ceUular tisSie of tlie neck, extending to the ant. mediastinum, was found, and the right pleural cavity contained one and a half pint of curdy serum In Clarke's case the aneurismal tumour was as large as a sma'u billiard ball; its pulsation could be stopped bv pressure on the