SECRETORY SYSTEM. 263 liearfc disease ursemic poisoning does not occm^ and the results of uiicroscopic examination of the kidneys (post-mortem) is qnite dis- tinctive. The characters of the mine, also, are different in the secondary renal affection, and in the primary diffuse nephritis and amyloid degeneration before shrinking lias taken place. Thudichum mentions, in a paper on the pathology and treatment of gall-stones, that he had discovered in the pulpy central part of one a number of cylindrical, tliread-like fibres, many of which were branched or divided dichotomously. These appear from the figures to have been covered over with crystals of cholesterine, and the author states his opinion that they were casts of the biliary ducts. He considers the etiology of biliary calculi, and offers various specu- lations as to the possible or probable circumstances wliich may pro- duce them. "With respect to treatment, after noticing the usual means employed, he suggests the feasibility and desirableness of estabHsliing, in appropriate cases, a biliary fistula, and introducing an instrument to crush the calculi, and so get rid of them. BuRDEL affirms the existence of a true, though temporary, dia- betes in marsh-fevers. It coexists with the fever, and disappears along with it. The more violent the paroxysm, and the more in- tense the shivering, the greater is the amount of sugar-. When the paroxysms are shghter, and the cachexia is estabhshed, the amount of sugar is less. MoissENET having himself lost a patient in peritonitis resulting from a palliative punctui-e with a capillary trocar of a large hydatid cyst in the liver, examines minutely the different methods which have been employed to evacuate the liquid contained in the sac and to destroy the hydatids. He gives the two following sets of con- clusions : " A. (i.) That the hydatid liquid, whether limpid or puri- form, when poured into the peritoneum, whether as the result of accident or of an operation, induces acute or clu-onic inflammation, which is abnost always, if not invariably, fatal. (3.) That capillary puncture, though commonly not injurious, may induce effusion into the peritoneum of hydatid fluids, when there are no adhesions between the cystic and abdominal parietes; and that this effusion has taken place when the puncture has been made for exploration or paUiation only; that is, when the cyst has been imperfectly emptied. (3.) That the puncture of the hydatid cysts, whether made with a capillary or with an ordinary sized trocar, may prove fatal by inducing inflammation of the cyst itself, b. (1.) That capil-