121 GENERATION AND DEVELOPMENT. of contact, into the yolk, the needle was deflected five degrees. On changing the wires, the coui-se of the needle was reversed. Wlien the white and yolk were taken out of the sheU, the yolk being still immersed in the white, the effects on trial were similar; but not so when the two were well mixed; then no distinct effect was perceptible. Indica- tions also of chemical action were obtained on substituting for the galvanometer a mixtui-e consisting of water, a little gelatinous starch, and a small quantity of iodide of potassium, especially when rendered very sensitive of change by the addition of a few drops of muriatic acid. In the instance of newly laid eggs, the iodine liberated appeared at the pole connected with the white. In that of eggs that had been kept some time, it appeared at the pole con- nected with yolk, answering in both to the copper in a single voltaic combination formed of copper and zinc. Thomson describes the male and female reproductive organs of the comatula. The mature ova, before impregnation, are protruded and remain hanging from the ovarian orifice, entangled in the aereolar tissue of the everted ovary. In this position impregnation usually occurs. After segmentation of the yolk, a soHd nucleus is formed in the centre of the mulberry yolk-mass j this nucleus becomes invested by a membrane, and into this mass the remainder of the yolk is gradually absorbed. The embryo is ciliated. The young larva, on escaping from the egg, is barrel-shaped, of a pale- yeUow colour, girded at intervals with about five broad, cihated bands. The digestive organs are rapidly developed, and the larva at the same time becomes vermiform. Under circumstances favorable to the production of the pentacrinal stage, the development of the larva may be arrested in any of its earlier stages, before the com- plete differentiation of its internal organs. EoLLESTON and Eobeetson say, that the commonly received opinion as to the orifices at the outlet of the ovarian system is erroneous, and that they are, in reality, the exhalent orifices of a water-vascular system. In the second part of the communication the structures are indicated which the authors hold to be the true oviducts. At the spawning season, a prominent ridge projecting into the lower segment of the intestine is seen, which, with two smaller ones, are said to discharge tliis function, Duncan alludes to the manifold infiuences wliich determine the form of the pelvis. Between infancy and adult age, as it grows in size, it gradually changes in shape. In early life, the antero-pos-