MUSCULAR SYSTEM. 23 1669-3, the nerve of the same animal 1090-5, the artery 72-6, and the muscle of the ox 273-4, as "elastic-coefficients." ScHiFF says, that, in animals poisoned with sulpho-cyanide of potassium, the muscles cease to be affected by stimuli, either directly or indirectly, through the nerves. The injection of healthy blood into the vessels of tlie limb, however, restores both the nervous and muscular functions—the latter soonest. Henle's manual on the muscles contains 159 partially coloured woodcuts printed in the text. The fascia, bones, and ligaments occupy another volume, previously published. Beratjd says that the part of the rectum, uncovered by peri- toneum, has three layers of longitudinal muscular fibres. A super- ficial, middle, and deep. The first can be again divided into three portions; an anterior, lateral, and posterior. The anterior leaves the rectum, and attaches itself to the prostate; he names it mus. recto- prostaticus. The lateral pass into the levator ani. The posterior leaves the rectum and attaches itseK to the sacrum, close to the inser- tion of the levator ani. According to Luschka, the levator ani resembles the buccinator, and not, as is generally thought, the mylohyoid. He divides it into three portions, i. Pars rectalis, or that part of the muscle which terminates around and behind the rectum. 2. Pars prostatica, in front of the rectum; or, in other words, the portion usually named adductor s. levator s. compressor prostatse. And 3. Parsurethralis, further forwards, and not in contact M'ith the rectum, but closely surrounding the pars membranacea urethrse. The origin of the female levator ani is the same as in the male. The posterior portion, ox pars rectalis, needs no separate description. The middle portion is much weaker than in man, and is reduced to a narrow convex band of fibres, with the concavity looking forwards. The centre of the anterior portion is absent; its posterior edge is gra- dually lost in the transversus perinsei profundus, and its anterior edge on the walls of the urethra. In his paper on the Transversus Colli, Luschka says, that this unusual muscle arises from the inner surface of the cartilage of the first rib, passes behind the origin of the sternohyoid, between tliis and the sternothyroid, then spreads itseK out into fine bands of fibres, which meet in the middle line with those from the opposite side. Some of the fibres end in the interclavicular ligament. The muscle is occasionally present on one side only.