263 REPORT ON PRACTICAL MEDICINE. spleen; the lust depencliiig upon the deposition of an opaque, white, lardaceous material, in isolated masses, or diffused throughout the substance of the organ, and resembling bacon-rind." There is no excess of white corpuscles in this disease, but a deficiency of the red. The structure of the enlarged gland is tibro-nucleated. The disease may occur at all periods of life, may extend over a period of two or more years, and proves fatal by slow prostration. Wilks has given an account of the affection in 'Guy's Hospital lleports/ vol. ii, series 3. In some remarks on the hygienic treatment of diabetes, Bou- CHAUDAT states that the replacing of the feculent food by alcoholic drinks is as important as the abstinence from feculent foods. He prefers the red Burgundy and Bordeaux wines, but all red wines which are more astringent than sweet do equally well. In the twenty-four hours he gives a litre (one pint and three quarters) or more. Bordeaux wine allays the thirst of the diabetic better than any other liquid. Case of tuberiform cancer of liver, combined with a large aneu- rism of abdominal aorta. iVicIe ' Glasgow Med. Jom-n.', Oct. 1859.) In a paper on parenchymatous nephritis, Eosexsteix gives the results of his observations on the lu-ine. The average amount of urea was 7-26 grammes per day, contrasting with that of healthy individuals, 35-16 grammes. The amount of chloride of sodium fell very rapidly, on the coming-on of fever, fi-om 17-2 grammes to 1-25 gramme ; and towards the end of the disease its maximum amounted to 15-3 grammes, its minimum to 076 gi-amme. The quantity of albumen varied between 18-9 and 0-50 • grammes per day; it was sometimes absent, even during dropsy, for weeks, once for months. About the middle of the course of the clu-onic cases decrease of the amount of cliloride of sodium corresponded to increase of the albu- The amount of urea showed no constant ratio to that of the men. albumen and chloride of sodii;m, and certainly no inverse ratio to the former. Traube states, that in sixty-one cases of insufficiency of the car- diac valves, and similarly operating affections of the circulating and respiratory organs, renal disease leading to granular atrophy occur- red only once. After noticing Bamberger's contrary opnnon, he concludes that the renal disease, consecutive on valvular msuft- ciencv, is a disease sui generis, which only arises when the disturb- ances of the circulation find no equalisation, or cannot retain it. lu