DISEASES AFFECTING THE GENERAL SYSTEM. 159 iiieuced as a common sore tlu'oat. Ci'oupy symptoms ensued later. (8.) Tme and situation of the leathery inembrane. In the vast majority of cases, the exudation M'as present when the case was first seen; seldom did it commence after treatment (efficient) had been put in force. The situation afPected is almost always the fauces or tojisUs. After detachment of the membrane, the mucous surface is left Hvid and bleeding, but not ulcerated. (9.) Microscopical ex- amination. It is only in exceptioiial cases that tlie presence of a fungous growth has been discovered. (10.) Complications : none constant, albuminuria rarely present, (it.) Treatment. A general tonic and stimulating plan has always been necessary. Emetics have often had a good effect. CMorate of Potash and Tr. Terri Muriat. have mostly been employed, and caustics locally; among the latter tm-pentine ]\as been used successfully. (12.) Indication and suc- cess of tracheotomy. The operation has often been indicated, rarely performed, and never proved successful in saving life. (13.) Mor- ialitj. Out of the 74 cases tabulated, there were 36 deaths. Erom asthenia 14, asphyxia 7, sudden s_\Ticope 3, bronchitis i, laryngitis (occmTing during recovery from imprudent exposure) i. (14.) Post- mortem appearances. The information given is but scanty. In some cases abscess or ulceration had accompanied the diphtheritic inflammation. HouGHTox records the histories of four cases of diphtheria,, in all of which the sanitary condition of the patients' residence was very .bad, wliile in all other respects the circumstances were favorable to health. In all the cases the disease set in with disorder of the diges- tive organs, vomiting and purging being prominent premonitory symptoms. In every case great prostration, "singularly marked on the countenance," was strikingly apparent. The appearance of tlie exudation was different in diKerent parts of the affected surface. On tlie tongue, lips, and inside of the cheek it formed creamy-looking spots, of various size, like muguet; while on the velum, the tonsil^ and the pharynx, it was deposited in a more or less continuous layer' which, in three cases, looked much like wet wash-leather; in one^ like lialf-fluid taUow. A violaceous lividity of the mucous membrane siirrouncbng the exudation was well marked in every case, thougli it dul not always precede or accompany the first deposition of fibrine. Two of the patients had delirium; in none was there any laryngeal aftection. Tr. Terri Muriat., and strong mui-iatic acid lotion to the atlected parts, were of marked efficacy; the acid appeared to dissolve