PATHOLOGY OF PREGNANCY AND PAllTURITION. 315 during pregnancy. The cause is generally a sudden shake or exertion, or fall; the distension of the bladder is an effect. The method of repo- sition recommended is by the introduction of the hand into the vagina, and pressure upwards. Gueaves's patient was six months preg- nant. The displacement was corrected, and a dead foetus extracted. Oldham relates a case in which the patient had gone her full time, and labom- supervened. The uterus was found completely retro- flexed. Much difficulty was experienced in effecting the reposition of the uterus, when delivery easily followed. The retroflexion had existed apparently throughout the whole period of pregnancy. Barnes describes four cases of retroversion of the uterus diiriug pregnancy. Retroversion of tlie gravid uterus may, according to him, occur gradually or in a sudden manner. In effecting the reposition of the retroverted uterus, Godefroy places the patient with her hands and head on the floor and the pelvis and legs on the bed. Tlu-ee or four fingers are then intro- duced into the rectum, and the restitution effected. Evans, Basham, and Hall Bakewell record cases of retroversion of the uterus in which retention of urine formed the prominent symptom. Lehmann states that, of 7000 women deHvered in the ' Gebar- anstalt' at Amsterdam, rupture of the uterus occurred only three times : in private practice he has observed eight cases. In all the rupture took place diuing labour. It is in the third or fourth stages of labour that the uterine waU gives way, seldom until after the membranes have been broken. The author divides cases of rupture of the uterus into two classes—the spontaneous, and the accidental or mechanical ruptures. Under the first head are in- cluded cases where the cause is a pathological condition of the uterus Itself, a degenerated state of the uterine tissue, fibroid formation combined with irregular contraction, or abnormal thin- ness of the uterus, softening, hysteromalachia, or thickening of cer- tain parts on the fundus and body combined with great tenuity of the cervix. But rupture may occur when these pathological con- ditions are absent as in cases of pelvic deformity," disproportions between the size of the child and the pelvis, transverse presenta- 10ns, or in cases of hydrocephalus in which the pains are ex- tremely violent. Here, however, the uterhie tissue is rarely in a normal condition at the time of the rupture. The author behoves that rupture only occurs in such cases when part of the uterine