TUMOURS OF THE NECK. 283 Baukee and Siicon's case of a horse-boy, thirteen years okl, admitted with urgent dyspnoea. Pances red, and a wloite patch on tlie riglit tonsil and uvula. Hydrargyrum given, but symptoms becoming more pressing, Simon opened the trachea next day. Great immediate relief. On the day following, increasing dyspncea, and death forty-eight hom-s after the operation. The false mem- brane had extended down the trachea, and completely blocked many of the smaller bronchial tubes. roESTEu's patient, a httle boy, three years old, swallowed a Trench bean, which lodged in the right bronchus. The trachea was freely opened, but the bean was not expelled, nor coiQd it be Avithdrawn with forceps. At the autopsy it was found much swollen, and firmly fixed in the bronchus. Skey opened the trachea freely an horn- and a half after the acci- dent. Attempts to catch the stone with forceps were ineffectual; but the edges of the tracheal wound being held apart with hooks, it was forcibly ejected by a cough. The child recovered. TUMOURS OF THE NECK. Pitha.—The Diagnosis and Treatment of Tumours in the Neck. (Oesterr. ZtcUr. f. prakt. Heilk., vol. v, p. i8, 1859. Beilage.) Schmidt's Jahrb., No. 9, 1859. Thamhayn.—The Surgical Treatment of Diseases of the Thyroid Gland. A Report of cases treated hy Werner, Schuh, Erichsen, and Chelius. lb., No. 2. 1859. Blittl.—Cystoid Tumour in the Front of the Neck in a Child two years old ; Ex- tirpation and Cure. (Oesterr. Zeitschr. f. prakt. Heilk., vol. v, p. 6, 1859.) lb., No. 9, 1859. NelatOn.—Extirpation of a large Tumour in the Neck; Recovery. rOaz des Hop- 33. 1859-) Ih. Ferg:usson.-Case of Serous Brouchocele treated by Incision. Lancet, May 28th 1859. ' PiTHA says, tumours in the neck are of great moment to the sUf. goon, on account of the difficulties which occasionaUy attend an exact diagnosis of their nature and anatomical relations. The sweUing and tension which attend acute inflammatory depo- sits make them appear to be more deeply seated than they really are, whilst deeply seated tumours of slow growth gradually thin the overlying tissues, and push aside the vessels and nerves tiU they reach the surface, when their more rapid eidargement, perhaps, fii-st