DISEASES AND INJURIES OF THE BONES AND JOINTS. 313 and not the nature of the disease ; the second because it has been hitherto applied to quite another affection, Gosselin agrees with Klosse's remarks on the absence of oil from the pus, a sign upon which Chassaignac insists. Gosselin describes two forms—the one acute and suppiu-ating, the other clironic and unattended by the formation of pus. BouissoN sajs the characteristic sign of these tumours wliich liave been also termed "Erectile bony tumours," and "aneui-isms by anastomosis," is the union of cancerous and vascular elements. The cancellous tissue is always their primitive seat, the compact tissue is only secondarily implicated. They have an especial prefer- ence for the head of the tibia. The existence of true aneurism of bone without cancer is doubtful, and, at aU events, extremely rare. Pulsating tumours begin beneath the periosteum, or within the bony tissue wliich they expand and destroy. They never attack articular cartilages, and when they break into a joint it is by an extension along the synovial membrane. The author shows from six cases, treated by deligation of the main vessel of the limb on wliich the tumour was seated, that this mode of treatment is useless, and recommends early amputation before the establishment of a cancerous diathesis. Meier relates that the iliac fossa was fiUed with a firm, pulsating swelling wliich also extended downwards beneath Poupart's ligat ment, and occupied the whole buttock. In some parts obscure fluctuation was felt. The whole swelUng pulsated synchronously Avith the heart's impidse, and the pulsation was attended by a beUows'-sound. The neck of the femur was broken. A pulsating bony tumour, "aneurism of the arteries of bone," was diagnosed. Dehgation of the art, iliaca com. was practised as the only^means of checking the destructive process in the pelvis, Dii-ectly the vessel was tied the tumour ceased to pulsate and diminished very considerably. On the following day gangrene commenced in the foot and leg; it involved the whole limb, the wound also became gangrenous, and death took place on the thirteenth day after the operation, _ In Plowek's case %e tumour formed a rounded projection ]n the armpit, which was quite independent of the humerus but followed the movements of the scapula. During its removal it was found to extend as a broad, thin lamella, between the ventral surface of the scapula and the ribs, nearly to the dorsal border of