183 NERVOUS STSTEir. without my convulsion. No notable disease was foiuid except the en- tozoon; the heart was large and fatty^ the stomach free from ulceration. PLi?«DFiELD Jones publishes a third series of cases of nerve- disorder, consisting of instances of paralytic affections, which ap- peared to depend solely on functional derangement of the nervous centres, or nerves. Db Morgan narrates the particulars of a case of tetanus (trau- matic), in which recovery took place under the administration of Tine. Aconiti (Ph. Lond.), d]^. v—viij, 2dis horis. A similar but more severe case is quoted, as having recovered under the same treat- ment, at CarHsle, under Mr. Page's care. A trial was made in ilr. De Morgan's case of strychnine, which has been stated in some American jom-nals to have proved successful in several cases, but this agent proved useless, if not injurious. About three weeks after the tetanus had quite disappeared, some trials were made upon the patient as to the effect of the tincture of aconite. It now speedily produced marked symptoms of poisoning, which appeared after tlnee doses were taken. ^ Pmquet describes two forms of muscular rheumatism, in which Faradization is of great efficacy. One is induced by exposure of llie eye to full sunshine, the pain is seated around the orbit and in the forehead, and resembles a megrim (hemicrania). To prevent its^ recurrence, gray glasses must be worn for half an hour after going out. The other affects chiefly the upper part of the head, and the neck, and is produced by sleeping during tlie night with the head bent forward. It always occurs in the morning, and is avoided by placing the pillow so as to avoid the tension of the muscles. These pains seem neuralgic rather than rheumatic. A case of aggravated neuralgia of the divisions of the trifacial nerve was successfully treated by Michel by section of the -usta- tory nerve, after division of the supra- and infra-orbital, buccal, and mental nerves had failed to procure more than temporary relief. A case of cerebral disorder, caused by exposure to cold and M-et, IS recorded by Fox. He entitles it delirium tremens, but is positive that no indulgence in intoxicating liquors had anythino- to do withnts production. After an emetic to produce diaphoresis'' and a mustard poultice to the neck, aU the symptoms disappeared, navmg lasted only six or seven hours. Inhalation of cliloroform for foiu- and a half hours proved sue cesslui in a case of poisoning by two grains of strychnia. (Jewctt.)