REPORT ON PRACTICAL MEDICINE. depression seemed to predispose to tlie attacks. Irritability of the bladder was a constant and early symptom. The symptoms and treatment were similar to those observed by others. Venesection Avas not found useful. Mekz reports that he has found liemicranial pain, attended with increased determination of blood to the head, permanently removed by compression of the corresponding carotid artery. The pressure may be applied by the thumbs, or by a kind of truss. ScHLEGEii records a case in which paralysis of the right facial and hypoglossal nerves appeared to depend on dilatation and rigidity of the external carotid. Bang devotes a paper to the consideration of the forms and treatment of giddiness. Besides giddiness arising from various easily removable causes, he enumerates (i) hypersemic ; {2) anaemic, or nervous J (3) dyscrasicj (4) sympathetic; (5) traumatic; (6) or- ganic. As well as the ordinary measures, he recommends, as a specific in certain cases, guaiacum. Max-Simon, in his prize essay on nervous giddiness, considers the idiopathic, the sympathetic, that occasioned by venereal ex- cesses and attending on hypochondiiasis, that occurring during con- Vtdescence fi'om serious diseases ; and that accompanying sea-sick- uess. In Ids treatment there is nothing remarkable. JForget dissents from the opinion that rheiunatic meningitis should be considered a distinct species fi-om meningitis of a different origin. Its symptoms, its perils, its treatment, are the same as in simple meningitis. He recommends the free use of opium, which has proved itseK most effectual in meningitis attending on typhus, pneumonia, and erysipelas. The presumed hypera;mia of the brain is no counter-indication, and is not always present. Peank relates the particulars of five cases of facial neuralgia, in Avliich section of the affected nerve Avas practised with a suc- cessful result in four. In some subjoined remarks the author expresses liis opinion that congestion of the trunk of the nerve is one of the most frequent causes of neuralgia, and that the pulsation of the accompanying arteries affects the nerves injuriously. Central ueui-algia, he tliinks, is more common than peripheric or s} mpathetic. He strongly recommends resection in severe cases of neuralgia, even though the disease be diagnosed as central. The objection from the law of peripheral nervous action, he thinks, is set aside by the results of the operation and by the cutting off external causes