REPORT ON PRACTICAL MEDICINE. 136 dulness. ( 2.)—That murmurs depending on the contact of roughened spots may be developed, increased, or abolished, by change of position. (3.) If it sliould be shown in a case of simple pericardial adhesion that the mobility of the heart was lost, this latter would become a useful sign of such adhesion having occurred. In the person of a female, who had an external fistulous opening, Gerhardt observed distinctly, by introducing his finger so as to be in contact with the sternal part of the diaphragm, that the heart descended at each inspiration (tranquil), and altered its position with right or left lateral decubitus. He also assured himself of the occurrence of a systolic movement of the heart's apex downw^ards and to the left. Hameknik having stated that the whole posterior surface of the sternum was covered by the right pleura, and that no part of the pericardium was left unlined by the two pleurae, Luschka examines the exact positions and attacliments of the two layers of the anterior mediastinum, and finds that the individual varieties are very con- siderable, but that as a rule there exists certaiidy a triangular space at the lower end of the body of the sternum devoid of pleural covering, and therefore accessible to the trocar in hydropericardium. The width of this at the level of the sternal extremity of the fifth rib is I -5 centim., at that of the sixth rib 3 centim., at that of the seventh rib 3 "5 centim. PiORRY recommends frequent and deep respiratory efforts as a means of relieving dyspnoea dependent on a congested and dilated state of the heart, congestions and inflammations of the liver and also of the lungs, as well as dropsical effusion resulting from cardiac disease. In his clinical fragments, Hirsch accounts for the vocal fremitus being sometimes abnormally increased, at others diminished, by the varying state of the tension of the thorax, or by the too great pressure of the swollen lung against the parietes. Condensation of the lung will always, he believes, intensify the vocal vibrations. In examinations of the vital capacity of the lungs, and its relation to chest-disease, Schnepf finds that expiration always occupies a longer time than inspiration, and that in three out of four cases a quantity of air greater by 50*250 c.c. is expired than is inhaled. He does not think this increase can be explained by expansion of the air from heat, and addition of carbonic acid, for these conditions exist in all persons. He states, further, that the quantity of air put in motion during the respiratory act does not