464 RErOlJT ON LEGAI, MEDICINE, ETC. salaries, and prescribes special charges for services rendered to individuals. The salary is generally small, M'hile the charges are ridiculously small. In consequence, the financial condition of Nassovian practitioners is bordering upon poverty, particularly since the great rise in price of all the necessaries of life which has taken place in Germany during the last ten years. A more intolerable interference with the natural laws of free trade and professional liberty, or a more abject slavery than that of a Nassau practitioner of medicine, cannot be imagined. The sooner the Representative Chambers leave the practice of medicine a free profession, as in the rest of Germany, the better, Horn's work affords proof that the medical laws in Prussia are good and well administered. There is, no doubt, a little too much scope for interference from above, but it is generally not abused. The collection of laws concerning the medical profession in Prussia is complete and well arranged, and accompanied by good com- mentaries and suggestions for improvement. The article of Werneut shows that the hygienic condition of the Department of the Upper Rhine (Alsatia) is far from satisfactory. The condition of lying-in hospitals, foundling hospitals, asylums for orphans, the bhnd, and the deaf and dumb, is either deficient or badly arranged and managed. The condition of the poor, of pauper lunatics, and of convicts, is successively described and dis- cussed. The laws concerning the certificates of the causes of death which prevail in country places prevent the collection of useful statistics upon that subject. The laws regarding burials are very deficient. Thus, only five years are fixed as the period wliich must elapse from one interment before another can take place upon the same spot. Prom all this we gather, that, while in Paris, hy"-iene interferes in all pubhc and private arrangements with exaggerated assiduity, on the Upper Rhine it requires much ad- van cement. LoHU desires that medical poHce should be taught at the umver- sities in a more practical manner than has hitherto been customary. Bloefelb reports the lectures on pubHc health, forensic medicine, and aUied sciences, which are given at the University of Kasan. The different branches are laid out in a very systematic manner. The Bavarian medical officers of health and state medicine have petitioned the Bavarian Chamber of Representatives for an increase of their salaries.