431 llEPOET ON LEGAL MEDICINE, ETC. a gutter. He stooped doAvii and drank his fill, when, on again attempting to rise, he staggered and became totally intoxicated. At the police-station, the stomach-pump and emetics were admiuLs- tercd. Continuing insensible, he was brought into Guy's Hos- pital. He was collapsed, cold, and unable to swallow. He lived twenty-two hours after his debauch, and died with dilated pupils and slow respiration. The post-mortem examination showed intense congestion of all the organs, particularly of the lungs and brain. 3. Antimoiii/. Lassaigne. -Diagnosis of Antimony in the Dead Body, after Poisoning. (Ann. d'Hyg., u, 192.) Lassaigne, from experiments made in conjunction with Lorain, has come to the conclusion that antimony cannot always be dis- covered by Marsli's method for arsenic. Of all the organs of an individual who had been poisoned by repeated doses of antimony, the liver alone yielded faint traces of antimony with Marsh's appa- ratus. But when the organs were incinerated, and the carbon and ashes extracted witli nitric and hydroclaloric acids, this extract yielded an orange precipitate with sidphuretted hydrogen. Li this way the liver, spleen, and kidneys yielded considerable amounts of antimony (liver = grains of tartar emetic); the stomach and intestinal canal gave traces. 4. Arsenic. Huber.-History of a Case of Poisoning, in ^hich the poison could not be detected. ChrSon.-On the Quantity of Poison ^N-hich has heen found in the Stomach, in Murders by Poisoning with Arsenic. (Edinb., Dec, 1857.) T^lnndlot -Analyses for Arsenic by Marsh's Method. (Acad. Med., Dec. 4, i857.) oS -0" the Failure of Marsh's Process for the Detection of Arsenic. (Guy s. qphaeffer-Detection of Poisoning by Arsenic in a Burnt Body. (Casper, ,4. i-") oSa!-!poisoning by Arsenious Acid. Medico-legal Researches. (Gaz. Hop., 1857, No. 139.) The Bradford Poisoning Cases. (Pharm., Jan. 1, 390-) Trial of Dr. King (America) for the Murder of his W>fe. (Edmb., 81.) Rose (H. Cooper.)-Case of Poisoning by the Arsenite of Copper in an Infant. (Lancet, :, 237.) , ... ^ n AVpo-o. -Case of Poisoning by Arsenic and Strychnia. (Schmidt, 6, 292.) Tlial of Dr. Smetliurst for the Murder by Poison of Isabella Banks. (Central Cnm. Court. Short-hand Report.)