CrilCULATOUY SYSTKM. 217 rciujiiii normal for a long time, the number of the former suddenly increased to such an extent as to constitute well-marked " leucocy- Ihannia." The first case was a scrofulous male, tet. 21, who suf- fered from intermittent fever rebellious to quina. Pneumonia set in and proved fatal in thi'ee days ; on the fu'st day a great increase of white corpuscles was observed, which was still greater on the second. Wallmaxn, in 300 autopsies of persons of aU ages, and dying of the most various diseases, found the foramen ovale patent in 130; Klob, in 224 out of 500. MusHET publishes a brief review of the pathology of angina pectoris, with two cases (one fatal, with autopsy) from his own ex- perience. He considers angina pectoris to be a " neuralgic affection always connected with some heart disease, in wliich respect it differs from simple neui-algia, being an accidental complication of the latter," induced generally by the usual causes wliich excite neuralgia in other parts. He believes that it is not the peculiar pang (the neurosis) which causes death in fatal cases, but the coexistiu"- organic disease. The intercostal nerves he regards as those specially implicated. Baelow gives various cases illustrative of the aetiology of enlarge- ment of the heart; he enumerates the following causative conditions : (i.) Obstruction from changes in the orifices of the heart, or in the course of the circulation. (2.) Obstruction arising from changes in the quantity or physical properties of the blood. (3.) Deficiency of strength in' the parietes of the heart itself. lu several of the cases narrated, there was no apparent organic change that could account for the hypertrophy. He refers to Gairdiier's view, that cardiac hypertrophy may result from pulmonic adhesions preventing the due expansion of the lungs, and so necessitating an ex- pansion of the heart to occupy their place. From this he dissents. ^ Maukham, on the treatment of pericarditis, emphasises the neces- sity for distinguishing between rheumatic and non-rheumatic in- stances. The latter is a secondary affection, and is rarely of sucli intensity as to require special modification of the general treatment. The former generally becomes the prominent phenomenon, and the object of especial care. Venesection is to be employed with modera- tion and caution; it cannot stop the inflammation, or prevent