157 DISEASES AEEECTING THE GENERAL SYSTEM. there was no increase of the colonrless corpuscles. The spleen was constantly enlarged; only in fifteen cases was there any amyloid or bacony degeneration of it, wliich always then existed also in the liver and kidneys. This kind of change only affected patients who had been free from paroxysms for some length of time. The liver was mostly of normal size, small only after many relapses, but without alteration of its substance, except that it. contained much pigment. Cirrhosis Avas never observed; from which, as the Lembergians are prone to excessive indulgence in alcoholic potations, Duchek concludes that the eflBcacy of this cause has been over-estimated. The stomach and the lower part of the ileum were fTcquently in a state of clironic catarrh. The large intestine presented the catarrhal state in all degrees of severity, up to follicular ulceration, the ulcers being often so close together, that they were only separated by narrow bridges of healthy mucous membrane. The muscular coat was sometimes hypertrophied a little, or its inner layers were destroyed; sometimes the serous membrane was inflamed. In the kidneys pigment was observed deposited in the capillaries and urinary tubules, though albimiinm-ia was not constantly present. Morbus Brightii only occm-red in cases where the paroxysms had long ceased. Eecent tubercles in the lungs and other organs were not rarely observed, together with traces of by-past intermittents, which had ceased long- before the appearance of the fii-st symptoms of tubercle. It was more rare to find fresh or relapsing intermittents together with healed pulmonary tuberciUar disease. There was nothing very re- markable in the symptoms or course of the disease; the type was usually tertian. Diarrhoea constantly occurred in all the cases of dropsy of notable duration; it was speedily foUowed by marasmus and if It lasted fourteen days was fatal. Dropsy occurred in the majonty of patients, began usually in the legs, and extended to the A^^ole integument and the cavities. It came on sometimes even after the fifth to the tenth attack, passed awV again usua%, if suit- able treatment was employed, except in individuals who were already lowered by relapses, and in tliem was almost constantly fatal It occurred not uncommonly in individuals convalescent from acute diseases who had previously suffered from intermittents, but liad no resh attacks as well as in others, as the mere expression and con- sequence of the malarious cachexia. Tlie dropsy sometimes left, Z kin bu persisted in the cavities; sometimes\he reverse occm-ie^ If the dropsy exceeded' three weeks' duration, it was almost con'