214 REPORT ON PRACTICAL MliDlClNK. sitory, as it may be observed extending over a long space of time. The sounds of the heart are not influenced by it. They are heard with the usual clearness at the apex, immediately above the ensi- form cartilage; at the third rib, or second intercostal space, on the right side; at midsternum; and even at the third costal carti- lage and edge of sternum, on the left side. In a paper on the formation of clots in the venous system during life, by Humphhy, after detail of some cases, and general facts observed, the author describes the process of formation of the clot as follows: " It appears that, as a general rule, the formation of the clot commences on the outside, that is, uear to the coats of the vein, where the current must be somewhat slower than in the axis of the tube; and the first stage in the process is the settling of a patch or layer of fibrine upon the inner surface of the vein. This is increased by the addition of successive layers upon the interior, whereby the channel for the blood is diminished. Soon the tube is completely obstructed; this result being commonly accelerated, more or less, by the clotting of the blood, in addition to the setthng of the fibrine. The two processes—fibrinous deposit and blood- clotting—which differ, probably, only in the circumstance that the greater rapidity of the latter causes the entanglement of the red globules with the fibrine, go on somewhat irregularly, whence the mottled appearance of the coagula; but as a general rule, the clots are fii-mer and more fibrinous near the exterior, softer and darker in the middle The exterior of the clot is usually smooth; sometimes having quite a polished appearance, except at the points where it has become adherent to the side of the vein. Tliese adhe- sions arc not usually very extensive; tlioy are most commonly found where the clot began to form, and vary in their firmness with the period of their duration." MooiiHEAD records a case of augina pectoris, with fatal result, m which the post-mortem showed a large heart, very fatty, weighing seventeen ounces, witli all its valves healthy, but the coronaiT arteries, for an inch and a half from their origin, converted into rigid tubes by calcareous deposit. Lungs healthy, but congested. Death probably occurred by way of syncope during an asthmatic attack. Symptoms of angina had existed fifteen years, and he had had two or three slight paralytic seizures. The patient was a male, Vn!LEBiiA>-D, of Helsingfors, finds the use of secale cornutum