344 REPORT ON MIDWIFERY, ETC. Meissneh gives a critical account of the several methods of treat- ment applicable when pelvic deformity prevents the delivery of a mature fcctus. These are-i. Paracentesis, when dropsy of the head or abdomen of the foetus, or cysts, are present. 2. Diminishiufr or perforation of the head. 3. Cephalotripsy, or compressure of the head generally, after perforation only. 4. Embryotomy, rarely necessary. 5. Symphysiotomy and pelviotomy, not to be recom- mended. 6. Artificial abortion, admissible when the patient is not m a state of health to allow of the performance of the Caisarean .sec tion with the prospect of a good termination, or when the cou- tmued growth of the foetus would imperil the life of the mother. 7. Artificial premature labour, best undertaken at the tliirty- fifth or thirty-sixth week of gestation. Or, 8. The CECsarean section, concerning wliich the author makes several interesting remarks. ScHWEGEL describes a pelvis in which the ilia were spread out and flattened, increasing the size of the greater pelvis. Such a deformity is likely to lead to transverse positions of the cliild. Lambl gives the results of his inquiries into the nature and origin of inter-vertebral inflammation. BiRNBAUM relates a case in wliich angular cim^ature in the lumbar region anteriorly prevented the head passing into the pelvis, and cephalotripsy was performed. CupPAiDGE and Branco relate the particulars of cases in wliich the vagina had become nearly closed by adhesions after delivery. In the former, these adliesions were cut tlirougli, and labour fol- lowed normally. In the latter, the septum was cut through, and a calculus an inch long was found between the septum and the cliild's head ; the calculus is supposed to have escaped from the bladder through a fistula subsequently healed. Eamsbotham relates a case in which the bladder was prolapsed during labour. The treatment adopted, and wliich was efficacious, consisted in the use of the catheter. Carson also relates a case somewhat similar. Hecker relates a case of retroversion of the uterus during preg- nancy, discovered and reduced at the sixth month. Miscarriage, however, followed. In Kiferle's case reduction was efi'ected at the third month, and tlie pregnancy went its fidl time. In Pingault's case reduction was effected at the same period. Negrier states, that primiparse are rarely affected with retroversion