POISONS AND POISONING, 449 make it, call it invariably urari. (Cliristisoii, 'Edinb./ note, April, 873.) According to Kollikeu, the urari causes death by paralysing the nerves of respiration; it destroys the excitability alike of motor and sympathetic, but does not affect the functions of sensory nerves. It does not destroy muscular irritability, or arrest the action of the heart. Concerning the action of urari, the discussion between Betzold, IIatdexhaix, and Kollikee, is of so comphcated a nature that, owmg to the pressiu-e of space, we are prevented from even noticing 1 ts principal points. It has increased in dimensions since the publit cation m 1859 of an article by Funke. The periscope in the'Edinburgh Monthly Journal' gives the liistory of the poison, its preparation, analysis, and the theories of Its action by Bee>-ard, Kolliker, and others. Its employment as a remedy m tetanus is extensively discussed. Some information by Hammond and Mitchell relative to the varieties of urari-the one caUed "corroval," the other, less powerfiU, termed "vao^'-is ot great importance, as suggesting caution in the application of this agent in the practice of medicine. 36. Wu-tsau. Christison.-On a New Poison from the Interior of China. (Edinb., April, 869.) This new poison, described in the 'Northern China Journal' of April 4th 1857, as possessed of marveUous properties, naost of them fabulous was sent to Cheistison by McGervan, an American phj-sician residing at Ningpo. It was accompanied by the leaves and roots_ of the plant, which Christison found to be a species of Acomtum, not A. Napellus of Europe, nor A.ferox of the Himalayas but a new species. When a piece of the root, the size of a pin's head IS chewed. It produces intensely that strange combination of numbness and tinghng which characterises all poisonous species of the known Aconites. The extract sent from China produced precise^ the same impression as the plant, from which it had no doubt been made. The Wu-tsau is also caUed Tsau wi 29