328 KEPORT ON SURGERY. "Wharton Jones scarifies the conjunctiva, and then insinuates a small piece of the sulplmr ointment of tlic PharmacojKEia beneath the upper eyelid, wliich he rubs over the eyeball with the finger for a minute or two, in order to spread the ointment over the whole conjunctiva, Jones was led to employ the ointment by the idea that the disease might depend on, or be maintained by the presence of a parasitical organism. Peaiicb says, the development of tlie tumour is attended by in- flammatory sjinptoms. The gi-owth fills the anterior cliamber, and is connected with the cornea and sclerotica at their junction, which seems to be its starting-point; corresponding to it externally a ciHary stapliyloma (?) appears. If the front of tlie globe be re- moved, the posterior part is found to be healthy. The growth is semitransparent, semi-elastic, and homogeneous. NoizET remarks that the very frequent occurrence of posterior sta- phyloma in myopia renders it important that every sm-geon should be familiar with this condition. His description of tliis affection is very complete, and embodies the results of forty dissections by French and German observers. The antero-posterior diameter of the globe is always lengthened so that it has more or less the shape of an egg or pear. The staphylomatous projection Avhen single, wliich is most common, is always at the outer side of the optic nerve, encircling it. Occasionally the nerve is compressed or pushed to the inner side of the fundus. It has been found atrophied. When a second staph\-- loma coexists at the inner side of the optic nerve, it is always smaller than that at the outer side. The whole posterior hemi- sphere has been found projecting. Math the optic nerve inserted into the centre like a stalk. The sclerotica is much tliinned, Hke paper. Seen from witliin, the staphyloma is marked by a pearly-white spot, rarely of a dirty-yellowish colour. Early in the disease its shape is a crescent, accurately encircling the margin of the optic nerve at its outer side. As the white spot enlarges it loses the cresccntic shape, and its edge is ill-defined. The sclerotica always retains its fibrous structure. The choroid is stretched, and has lost its pigment. In advanced cases there are black patches at the edge of the wln'U- spot; they are irregular collections of new ])igracnt. The retina generally preserves its integrity, even over the jiearly-wliite spot, except in very advanced stages of tlie disease. The vitreous humour is more fluid than in health, and the back of the lens becomes more opaque in advanced cases.