469 PUBLIC HYGIENE. mixture of sulphate, oleate, and chloride of zinc and of sulphate of manganese; and by other chemical and mechanical methods, either unexplained or too elaborate for description. The trials made by Hofmanu and Prankland led them to recommend a con- centrated solution of percliloride of iron, to which Ellerman had caUed their attention. It is superior to cliloride of lime, both in its immediate and permanent effects. Moreover, it effects a very rapid clarification of the sewage. The authors propose to add one gallon of the perchloride to 15,000 gallons of sewage, and, after subsidence, to separate the clarified liquid from the deposit of filth, and ran it only into the stream. The cost of the disinfection is estimated at a probable sum of £14,000 per annum. The actual process of deodorization will present less difficulty than the separation of the spontaneous deposit by filtration or subsidence. The reporters suggest that the disinfecting operation should, as fax as possible, be conducted at a distance from densely populated districts. Beenays found that sewage of the worst description, emitting the most deleterious gases, could be rendered perfectly sweet and harmless, emitting only the odoui- of the impure coal creasote, by the disinfectant of Messrs. Smith and McDougall, of Manches- ter, namely, a mixtui-e of carbolic acid and bisulphite of magnesia. At the suggestion of Miller, experiments on a large scale were instituted in the sewer of Tavistock Street, Tottenham Court Eoad. These were sufficiently satisfactory to warrant the application of the same reagent to the Thames. The details of these experiments are given in Bernays' paper. II. CLIMATES A^D THEIE INFLUENCE. DutrOUleau.—Medical Topography of Intertropical Climates. (Ann. d'Hvir No. 20.) ^ Milroy.-Advantages of Mountain Sites for Barracks in Hot Climates. (Lancet 2. S9-) ' Notes on Barracks and Military Hospitals in Hot Climates. (lb i esi • 2. 333-) ' > b6^> ^i^^^ffstone and Kirk.-African Fever on the Lower Zambesi. (Med. Times, 2, The paper of Duteouleau is an inquiry into the climatic pecdiarities of the stations possessed by France between the tropics. The nature of the soil and the local meteorology are summed up as tlie principal conditions of salubrity.