218 HEPORT ON PRACTICAL MEDICINE. exudation, but it may give temporary relief to tlie sufferings ot the patient, and relieve the congostioji of the lieart aud lungs. liOcal bleeding by leeches or cupping is much more safe, aud often of great service; yet iu feeble subjects even this mode may be in- jurious. Markham has seen it produce puerperal luemorrhage, or choreal symptoms, in each case followed by death. i\Iercury used to salivation Markham regards as altogether miscliievous aud useless, quoting an analysis of Taylor's cases by Bennett. A case of laperation of one of the coronary arteries of the heart is reported by Feigxeaux. The tendinous centre of the diaplu-agm was also torn. The author ascribes the occm-rence to violent efforts in vomiting, A case of rupture of the heart by Buys, and one of rupture of some of the cordse tendinese of the mitral valve, is given by Allix. A highly interesting case of acute inflammation of the thoracic duct is related by Wokms. The whole length of the vessel from the cisterna chyli to the subclavian vein contained an extraordinary quantity of pus; its walls were thickened, opaque, and adherent to the surrounding tissue. The inner surface was rough, like felt, denuded of its epithelium, aud presented numerous red, ecchymosed spots. Numerous sAvoUeu glands surrounded the cisterna chyH, the efferent lymphatics from which contained pus. There were j^uru- lent collections in the left kidney and spleen, but the author does not regard these as having set up the inflammation in the duct. The symptoms were those of fever, severe pain, enormous swelling of the left arm, and distension of the superficial veins. There were also intense jaundice, delirium, and finally death by coma. Whalley relates a case of severe piu'pui'a, the urine being loaded with blood, wliich was arrested in two days by calomel and galHc acid, ana gr. ij—iij, 4tis horis, with gr. j of quinine. Ptyalism was produced. The patient was in robust health before the attack, aud had not been without vegetables. Cockle observed 178 cases of cardiac valvular disease, being 90 males and 88 females ; 90 had mitral disease, 71 aortic, 17 both mitral aud aortic. In 58 rheumatic fever was the assigned cause^ viz., in 35 with mitral, 16 with aortic, and 7 with both mitral aud aortic disease. After citing the opinions of Skoda, Ludwig, Budge and Schiff, Weber and Browu-Sequard, as to the causes of the heart's rhythmic action and movement, and the mode iu which it is