405 DISEASES OF CHILDREN. Weisse.—Riickblick auf den Gebraucli des rohen Fleisclies in der Diarrhoe entwohiiter Kinder. [On the Employment of Raw Meat in the treatment of Diarrhoea of weaned Cliildren.] Journ. fiir Kinderk., 1858, parts i and 2, and S and 6. (Canst., iv, 450.) Marcus.—Schreiben iiber die IHufigkeit des Bandwurmes nach dem Genusse des rohen Fleisches, &c. [Frequency of Tapeworm after the use of Raw Meat.] J. f. Kinderk., 1858, parts 5 and 6. (Canst., iv, 450.) Barnes.—Fatal Obstruction of the Bowel by Meconium. Lancet, 1859, "> ^^3- Farre.—Acidum nitro-muriaticum gegen gastrische Fieber der Kinder. [Nitro- niudatic Acid in the Gastric Fever of Children.] J. f. Kinderk., 1858, parts II and 12. (Canst., iv, 450.) Moreau.—De I'ictere chez les nouveau-nes. [Icterus Neonatorum.] Paris, 1858. (Canst., iv, 450.) On Kamala as a Vermifuge for Young Children. Med. Times and Gaz., xxxix, 599. Mertens.—Vier Falle von Verschwiirung und Durchlocherung des wurmformigen Anhanges. [Perforation of the Appendix Vermiformis.] J. f. Kinderkrank., 1858, parts 3 and 4. (Canst., iv, 450.) Clar,—Zur Patbologie und Therapie eiuiger der wichtigsten Dickdarmkraukheiten im kindlichen Alter. [Pathology and Therapeutics of Affections of the Lai-ge Intestines in Children.] Jahrb. f. Kinderhlkde., 1858, part 4. (Canst., iv, 450-) Guersant.—Ueber die Mastdarravorfall bei Kindern. [Prolapsus Ani in Children.] J. f. Kinderk., 1859, P^rts i and 2. DuchaUSSOy.—Ueber die Anwendung des Strychnins gegen den Mastdarmvorfall bei Kindern. [On the Employment of Strychnine in Prolapsus Ani in Children.] J. f. Kinderkrankh., 1858, parts 11 and 12. (Canst., iv, 450.) Littre.—Bildung eines kunstl. Afters bei einem neugeborenen Kinde. [Formation of an artificial Anus in a New-born Child.] Journ. f. Kinderk., 1858, parts 3 and 4. (Canst., iv, 450.) The object of Eouth's paper is to show that defective assimila- tiou is a cliief cause of the mortality of infants, and that tliis is almost always the result of want of breast-milk and tlie use of inju- dicious food. Ballaud believes that the exercise of the instinctive act of sucking by infants, under cncumstances unfavorable to the infant obtaining the necessary supply from the breasts, is attended by an excessive reflex secretion of gastric juice; that the effect of the action of the secretion in question on the mucous membrane of the intestinal canal is the production of frequent green and loose stools. The author attributes many of the ailments, popularly ascribed to teething, to a persistence of this morbid state. In forty childi-en who died of cholera infantum, Schwautze found m many cases a hyperse.mic coiidition of the cerebral coverings, some- times extravasations. As a rule, the sinuses of tlie dura mater were filled with fresh blood-coagula, and with fibrinous formations, more or