HEART, SUPRA-RENAL CAPSULES, ETC. 91 Oidtmann, from these and other results, drew the following con- clusions : I. That the inorganic constituents of glands increase with the age of the individual. 2. The watery constituents are in inverse proportion to the age. 3. Disease alters the quality of both water and inorganic salts. 4. In the liver and muscles lime is found in greater quantity than soda. 5. In the spleen (in consequence of the quantity of blood) there is more potash than soda. 6. CUorine exists in small quantity in both liver and spleen. 7. The liver contains more phosphoric acid than the spleen. 8. The Hme is in small, but the magnesia in stiU smaller quantity. 9. The propor- tion of iron is large. 10. Copper and lead are both present, but not always. In his paper on the valves and apertures of the human heart, Joseph says that all four apertures—the two venous as well as the two arterial—have in general the same structure, being com- posed of elastic fibro-cartilaginous tissue; have almost the same form; but are of various sizes. The valves are likewise composed of elastic fibro-cartilage. This article is abnost the same as the the author's thesis ('De Anatomia Cordis," &c., 1857). It is generally thought that the anterior margin of the right lung extends to the left edge of the sternum. Ltjschka says that opposite the insertion of the second rib it reaches three quarters across the sternum; but from that point downwards it gradually ceases to extend so far, and it only occasionally reaches as far as the left margin of the sternum. MuLLEE says that on boiling cerebrin with hydrocliloric acid he obtained first a reddish-violet colour, and then a brown resinous substance, insoluble in both acids and alkalies. With nitric acid it gave a yellow colour and a wliite fatty-looking body. With cold sulphuric acid, a dark-red colour, and a yeUow flocculent substance. Cerebrin is not acid. Philipeaux has extended his experiments on animals, and found that not only can both supra-renal capsules be removed without any fatal result, but that even the spleen and the thjToid glands may be extirpated from the same individual (the rat) without causmg the death of the animal. BRowN-SEquARD attempts to explain away the success attending the operations of Philipeaux and Harley, by saying that these gentlemen only operated on animals having no pigment deposit in their tissues (albinoes), and consequently those which, according to