Respiratory system. 227 slu-inkiiig of the cartilages of the lai-ynx occm-s in stenosis certainly far more frequently than is usually supposed. The only sign by wliich this pathological state can be recognised when it is limited to the larynx, is the small size of the latter. If it extends to the air-tubes, it may be detected—(a) by'a deviation of the larynx to the right or left of the median line; (d) from the relative smallness or narrowness of the air-tubes; (c) from the spiral or axial twisting of the air tubes; (d) from the wrinkles and folds detectable by the finger on the inner (!) surface of the air-tubes, provided only that they are ascertained not to be the callous margins of ulcers; (e) from the oblique position of the anterior lamina of the canula, supposing trache- otomy to have been performed exactly in the middle of the crico- thjaoid ligament In the majority of cases sypliilis is probably the cause of the slmnking." A completely recorded case of acute laryngitis, in which life was in all probabihty saved by the early performance of laryngotomy, is communicated by Bulley. The tube was finally removed twelve days after the operation, and she was in a fair way of the most com- plete recovery six weeks later. Calomel, gr. ij, 6tis horis, was ad- ministered for two days after the operation till diarrhoea set in; at the same time the atmosphere of the room was kept humid and warm by means of the difl^usion of steam through it. Wine and stimu- lants were required after the calomel had been discontinued. In a clinical lecture on asthenic pneumonia, Russell observes, that the low forms of pneumonia, at any rate in towns, are far more common than those of a more sthenic character. Of tlie general signs, the respiration is the one which varies least, Ijcing much increased in frequency, except in instances of great prostration. The fever, pain in side, cough, and expectoration are very varymg. On the other hand, the physical signs arc very declaratory of the disease. The diagnosis fi-om pleuritic effusion may often be assisted by observing that the dullness follows a line sloping downwards and forwards along the side of the chest, supposing the inflammation to be limited to tlie lower lobe. Ihe disease may, however, afi'ect the upper lobe, or be deep seated at the outset. It is necessary to be on om- guard against he possibility of suddenly fatal syncope. Stimulants are frequently the most necessary and important remedies; blisters are also of much service, and sometimes a few leeches. Peacock examines the question, whether there exists any antago-