MANUALS, GENERAL TRUATISES, ETC. 7 In the smallest arteries of the web of the frog's foot the middle coat is composed of muscular fibre-cells wrapped spirally round the internal membrane, and Lister thinks that the arteries regulate by their contractility the quantity of blood transmitted in a given time tlirough the capillaries. The contractility being in its turn regulated by a part of the spinal cord. Tepid water applied to the frog's foot first induced constriction, then dilatation of the arteries. When the temperature of the water was more elevated, the corpuscles of the blood were obstructed in their progress, even when the vessels were fully dilated,—and a continuance of the irritation soon caused the minute vessels to be choked up. Irritation produced by the employment of salt, mustard, essential oils, chloro- form, heat, galvanism, or mechanical violence, gave rise to exactly similar effects. On applying an irritant it was noticed that, at first, the abnormal adhesiveness of the blood-corpuscles was limited to the spot acted on; it afterwards, however, extended to the neighbouring capillaries. When the same irritants were applied to freshly drawn blood, they seemed to diminish rather than to increase the adhesiveness of the corpuscles. The results of some other experi- ments led the author to conclude that mere quiescence of the blood does not of itself give rise to an aggregation of the red corpuscles within the vessels, unless the tissues are in an unhealthy condition; and that therefore the healthy tissues exert an influence on the blood in their vicinity, by means of wliich the corpuscles are pre- vented from adhering together. While in an inflamed part this influence is in abeyance. In the second paper the author calls attention to the fact of the pig- ment-ceUs of the frog's skiu being sometimes of a stellate figure, with minute, ramifying rays,—at other times, of a contracted, rounded form, the change of shape being produced, according to German observers, by the contraction and dilatation of the pigment-cells. Lister, however, believes that the true explanation is that, the form of the cells remain imchanged, but that the pigment-granules are, on the one hand, attracted into the centre of the cell, or, on the other, repelled into the minutest recesses of the ramifying rays, both the attractive and repulsive forces residing in the nucleus. Our author concludes by saying, that it may be looked upon as a fundamental principle, that whenever inflammatory congestion exists in any degree, the tissues of the* affected part experience a propor- tionate functional activity or vital energy.