142 REPORT ON PRACTICAL MKDICINE. cive to health {vide the cases of Mr. Rose's ii8 labourers, employed in emptying ashpits by day and cesspools by night, and that of the knacker's yard at Montfau^on, near Paris). Dr. Parkin does not seem to recognise the distinction between typhus and typhoid fever, nor between these and malarious fever, nor does he beheve "that any particular district has been preserved from visitations of either epidemic or endemic diseases by the removal of nuisances or by the establishment of new drains." Indeed, he entertains the opinion that di-ains may act directly as promoters of disease, partly by affording a passage along which malarial emanations from the banks of rivers may make their way into the interior of the houses, and pai-tly, when they become dilapidated, by allowing gaseous (malarial) matter to enter the drain from the soil. The chief remedies which he proposes are, paving or flagging the surface of the ground, so as to prevent the escape of the malarial emanations, and the use of charcoal and carbonic acid, to absorb and neutraUze them when they have escaped. In an appendix he gives various suggestions as to the best method of dealing with the question of the drainage of London. He argues forcibly for the application of the sewage to the purposes of manure, instead of allowing it to be thrown away into the sea. Gaeeod's work is divided into fifteen chapters.—Chapter i is in- troductory and historical; ii and m describe the symptoms and pheno- mena of acute and chronic gout; iv treats of the blood; v, of the urine in gout; vi and vii, of the morbid anatomy of gout; viii, of its causes; ix, of its pathology ; x, xi, xn, and xiii, of its treatment; XIV, of irregular forms of gout; and xv, of rhemnatic gout. The scanty space at our command induces us to give the foUowing extract from the chapter on the nature of gout, as conveying in a condensed form the principal views set forth by the author. "First, in true gout uric acid is invariably present in the blood in abnormal quantities, in the form of urate of soda, both prior to and at the period of the seizure, and is essential to its production; but it can be equally proved that this acid may occasionally exist largely in the circu- lating fluid without the development of inflammatory symptoms, as, for example, in cases of lead-poisoning and a few other instances. Its mere presence, therefore, does not explain the occurrence of the gouty paroxysm. Secondly, the investigations recently made in the morbid anatomy of gout prove incoutestably that true gouty in-