REPORT ON THE INSTITUTES OF MEDICINE. GO "Weber, as respects the contactile sensibility of the skin. He next refers to cases of disease, in which the contactile discriminating power may be either increased or diminished, and in which variations therein may become practically usefid in pointing out to a certain extent the degree in which the nervous system is affected, and also what advances may have been made towards a re-establishment of a hedthy condition. He also shows what circumstances exist capable of rendering the instrument ^?^applicable as a means of diagnosis. The DESCRIPTION of the Diaphemetric Compass is as follows : The instrument, wliich is about four and a half inches long, con- sists of a pail" of mathematical compasses, with the usual joint, furnished with a circular dial-plate, whose circumference is divided into inches and tenths and twentieths of an inch, and provided with a central hand or indicator (see fig. i),' which may be turned in any direction, so as to point to the various subdivisions. This dial is attached to the anterior surface of one of the legs of the compass, and the indicator on its sui'face is moved by means of a small-wheeled pinion be- hind the dial, of which the pivot is connected with it through the dial. Into this wheeled pinion {b) behind the dial works a seg- ment of a tooth-wheel (c), which is attached to the other leg of the compass in such a manner that when the legs are separated, that is, when the compass is opened, the tooth-wheel working in the pinion moves the indicator on the face of the dial, and makes it point to the various subdivisions. Thus, as these sub- divisions are calculated and constructed with reference to the fact that the legs of the compass open round the centre, and not m a straight line (and consequently are not made equal), the exact dis- tance at which the .points of the compass are separated may at once 1 No 1 in this figure shows the front view of the graduated dial-plate, with the indicator. No. 2 shows the posterior view, with the tooth-wheel working in the wheeled pinion.