R14P0RT ON LEGAL MEDICINE, ETC. 426 inguinal lieniia. 139. Blows with the liandle of a broom; abortion. 140 and 141. I'lmctured wounds of the chest by means of a knife and poniard. 142. Tlirow on the chest; peritonitis. 143. Throwing down; peritonitis. 144. Blows with a fist on the head; alleged concussion of brain. Hafher.—Case of Fracture of the Skull, with Medico-forensic Remarks. (Deutsche II, 2.) Kiirner,—Some Observations from the Criminal Court. (Wiirtemb., 28, Nos. 7, and 8.) B.Oth,—Fatal Disease of the Brain, caused by Blows of the Hand against the Temples. (Henke, 38, 3.) Ou the Fatal Consequences of a Box on the Ear. (lb.) Maschka.—Contributions from Medico-forensic Practice. (Deutsche, 12, 2.) Fatal injury of the head, very probably accidental. Wounds of the head, in a person with wet clothes; unexpectedly rapid death; necessarily fatal injurj'. Dead body found suspended by the neck; discovery of fracture of the skull, together with several other injuries, probably caused by violence of a second person ; exclusion of suicide. (Henke, 38, i). Ill-treatment of a Man seventy-four years of age, consist. ing in blows upon the head; supervening pneumonia; death; no connection traceable. (Casper, 13, 2). Wounds of the Head; unexpected death after some days; copious extravasation of blood in the pericardium; no connection traceable; serious injury. Injuries on the head and thumb of a drunkard; cold and irregular living; tetanus; death ; lesion which, from its general nature, is not necessarily fatal. On the Psychical Consequences of Lesions of the Head. (Friedreich, 9, 2.) Birkett.—Compound Fracture of the Skull by a Hatchet, with haemorrhage; re- moval of loose bone, and exposure of the dura mater; recovery. (Lancet, 1859.2.32-) Maschka.—Inguinal Hernia, alleged to have been caused by an assault; connec- tion not evident; slight injury. (Deutsche, 12, 2.) ToulmOUChe.—On Mortal Wounds of the Abdomen from a Medico-legal Point of View. (Ann. d'Hyg., July, 1858,19.) Rupture of the anterior part of the cajcum by a kick, followed by the escape of fecal matter into the abdominal cavity; rapidly fatal peritonitis. Rupture of the anterior wall of the ileum by a kick upon the ab- domen ; escape of fecal matter, casing peritonitis and death. Detachment of the jejunum from the mesentery,and rupture of the kidney.by a carriage-wheel passing over the abdomen ; rapidly fatal peritonitis. Rupture of the iliacs, with effusion of blood into the abdominal cavity, caused by great compression of the belly, and accompanied by hsemorrhage from the labial artery, and other rapidly fatal injuries. Comminuted fractures of the last seven right ribs, incomplete fracture of the fifth, seventh, and eighth left ribs; ruptm-e and contusion of the liver; rupture of the ureter, of the left renal artery and vein ; caused by the passing of a cartwheel over the body; almost immediate death. Comminuted fracture of the pelvis and sacrum, denudation of the cauda equina, and extensive extravasation of blood, caused by the passage of a cart-wlieel; almost instantaneous death. The belly ripped open by a knife; prolapsus of the intestines; unmethodical reduction; acute fatal peritonitis. Perforation of the ileum in four places; lesions of branches of the upper mesenteric artery, and of other more con- siderable arteries; the intestines, which had prolapsed through a cut wound