DISEASES AFFECTING THE GENERAL SYSTEM. 173 tliose iu barracks. Mr. Lawsoii believes tlie disease to have origi- nated from local causes, but that these would not have been effective had not an epidemic constitution also prevailed wliich favoured their action. Yellow fever prevailed dui'iug the summer of 1856 pretty extensively in the West Indies and around the GuK of Mexico. It does not appear that there was anything especially defective in the sanitary arrangements. Although the prixdes were frequently offen- sive, yet the rooms nearest to them were not those where the fever prevailed most. The occurrence of yellow fever at a level about 4000 feet above the sea is an rmusual circumstance, such an eleva- tion having been generally considered to give immunity. Diphtheritis appeared at Albany, 150 miles to the north of New York, during the end of last year. Scarlet fever at the same time was rare. ViucHOW enters at length into a discussion as to the nature of constitutional syphilitic affections. He dissents from a complete separation of the secondary and tertiary accidents, stating that though a distinction in a certain sense is justifiable, yet it cannot be maintained for the M'hole disease of any individual, either according to the date, the seat, or the nature of the morbid process. The primary disease of one organ may correspond as to time with the secondary or tertiary of another. He divides the constitutional symptoms into two great groups, one of wliich has a passive, the other an active or ii-ritative, character. To the latter belong all the \ arious forms of inflammation and new growth met with in secondary and tertiary affections; to the former syphilitic marasmus, loss of hair, and anaemia, with, in some cases, bacony or waxy degenera- tion of glandular organs. Though he is no antimercui-iahst, he ad- mits the following facts as reasons for hiniting the use of mercury (i.) Mercury may produce a cachexia perse, and so give rise to fresh local disease. (2.) There is no certain criterion of a mercm-ial cure being complete. Virchow thinks that the special abiding place of the syphilitic poison is in the tissues, to wliich, however, it is conveyed by the blood. In a paper on the recently prevalent malarious affections. Dr. Peacock states, and illustrates, the increased prevalence of ague during late years. He compares the mortality from this cause in three districts, viz.. North Aylesford, in Kent, Huntingdon, and Wisbeach, in Cambridgeshire, since 1850, all these being aguish locahties, with a nearly stationary population. The general result