REPORT ON PRACTICAL MEDICINE. 172 sons under the age of thirty, and that both sexes were about equally affected. (4.) That botli the upper and lower classes suffered alike; and therefore (5.), that famine and destitution, the especial causes of typhus and relapsing fever, were not influential here. (6.) That the fever M'as most prevalent in districts consisting of middle- and first-class houses. (7.) That recent residence in an infected locality predisposed to the fever. As to exciting causes, it appeared—(i.) That the prevalence of the disease could not be attributed to con- tagion, though in several instances it was undoubtedly communicated from one person to another. (2.) That there was conclusive evi- dence of its having been produced by the putrid emanations from decaying animal matter, and more particularly from the sewage in the drains. The unusually high temperature of the year 1858, and the protracted di'ought, are the causes to which Dr. Murcluson ascribes the epidemic, which raised, or contributed to raise, the mortality from an annual average (of fourteen years) of 265 to 375. For the details of the evidence on Avhich the above statements are based the reader must consult the paper itself. A report by Lawson on an outbreak of yellow fever at Newcastle, in Jamaica, will be read with much interest. Tlie principal conclusions he arrives at are—(i.) That yellow fever prevailed at Newcastle in 1856, in well-defined zones, alternating with others which presented a much smaller amount, and for the most part a different form of fever, attended with a much smaller mortahty. (2.) That bodies of men moving from an unhealthy to a healthy locality soon lost the disease, though they carried most of their bedding and their clotliing with them, and in the healthy spots did not communicate the disease to others who were from other healthy spots. (3.) Persons going from healthy to unhealthy locaHties to reside caught the disease. (4.) The activity of the causes of the fever seems to have been much diminished by a. course of wet weather, commencing on November 4th, accompanied by a severe storm and heavy rain on the 5th and 7 th; and yellow fever disappeared after December 21st, on the accession of strong, cool, northerly winds. (5.) The disease showed itself in its most malignant form in persons who had not Been away from Newcastle for many months, and who were not exposed to others previously affected with it, or to their clothes, or other media usually considered as likely to convey con- tagion. (6.) Persons in contact with the sick in a healtliy locality did not contract the disease more frequently, or indeed as frequently, as