MUSCULAK SYSTEM, 21 Eadcliffe begins by observing that the signs of electrical action in living muscle die ont, pari passu, with the signs of irritability; and, as with these latter signs, their last trace disappears before the occurreme of rigor mortis. He adds, that it seems that there is a close agreement between ordinary muscular contraction and rigor mortis, for in ordinary muscular contraction, as Professor Du Bois Eeymond has shown, there is a partial disappearance of electrical action. If the muscular current be present, rigor mortis is absent. So it would appear that the state of muscular con- traction is antagonized by the muscular current. The author says such a view is supported, ist, by the fact recently discovered by Eckhard, viz., that the state of tetanus is put an end to by the passage of a constant galvanic curi'ent tloi'ough the tetanized parts; ad, by the investigations of Harley on the modus op)erandi of strycliuia, wliich prove that this poison acts by making the blood less able to appropriate oxygen, and by impairing the irritabihty of the muscles. Eadcliife finds, also, that stryclinia exercises a directly depressing influence upon the nervous and muscular currents. He concludes by saying, that according to the results obtained from his own, as well as other observers' experiments, it appears that muscular contraction is produced, not by the stimulation of any vital property of contractihty belonging to muscle, but by the simple cessation of the action of certain agents—electricity, nervous influence, and others—which had previously kept the muscle in a state of relaxation or expansion. Ellis says, that the involuntary muscular tissue of the bladder and the voluntary muscle in other parts of the human body, have a like composition, and that Professor KoUiker's view, that involuntary or smooth muscle is in all cases made up of fusiform cells, is incorrect. For the muscular substance of the bladder is composed of lengthened fibres with fixed and tendinous terminal attachments. The fasciculi of muscular fibres in the bladder are interwoven into a network, and are marked at varying intervals by tendinous intersections, like those of the rectus abdominis on a small scale. The author terms what are usually called the "nuclei" of the niuscular tissue—" corpuscles," and distinguishes two varieties of them, the oval and the fusiform. The latter are the more numerous, and are the rod-hke nuclei of KoUiker. Two or even three of these may be observed in the length of a single fibre. If a single muscular