34 IIKPORT ON THE INSTITUTKS OF MEDICINE. carotid. Opposite to the sixth dorsal vertebra there the aorta gave off a vessel about the size of a goose-quill, which passed up through the fifth intercostal space to the neck, and there shoM'ed a curious distribution. The oesophagus lay to the right side of the trachea. Wallmann says, among other things, that cases of open foramen ovale are more frequent among women than men. That the fossa ovalis is not tmfrequcntly divided mto two by a band of muscular fibres. (Otto, Breschet, and others.) That occasionally openings are found in the semilunar valves, &c., &c. Dusch relates the case of a boy eleven years of age in whom a communication existed between the ventricles. He afterwards makes some general remarks upon tliis peculiar condition of the heart. Hauting found that the red blood-corpuscles of the Cnjpiohranclius Japonicus measure 46-8 mm. long, 32-8 mm. broad. The nucleus i8"8 by 14 mm. The colourless corpuscles, on the other hand, measure i6'8 by i5'2 mm. The surface of the red blood-corpuscles in this animal is therefore twenty-nine times greater than the diameter of the blood-corpuscle of the human subject. They are the largest known. BucHNER and Simon prepare blood-crystals by evaporating a few drops of blood, with an excess of strong acetic acid, to dryness in a watch-glass. Crystals may be obtained by this process even from dried blood removed from cloth, &c. The method may be employed in medico-legal investigations, as the only crystals hkely to be con- founded with those of hasmatin are crystals of murexid. The latter, however, differ from the former in being soluble in water, and dilute hydrochloric acid, and in giving with potash a blue instead of a dark-green solution. ('Canst.,'p. 214.) Pollock sought for granular blood-discs in blood circulating in the living vessels—ist, in the web of the frog's foot; 2d, in the gills of the tadpole of the water-newt; and 3d, in the small arteries and veins in the mesentery of kittens and rabbits while the animals were under the influence of chloroform; but in all tliree cases with negative results. The cause of the corpuscles assuming a crenated appearance after the blood has been drawn from a vessel he cannot exr plain; but he says, that it is not on account of its exposure to the air. Spirit of wine, when added to a drop of blood, causes all the cor- puscles to disappear, and in theii- place is to be seen a large quantity of extremely minute particles, of no definite shape,—apparently the dehm of the former discs.