REPORT ON MIDWIFERY, ETC. 418 being constantly in one direction, caused tlie twisting of the cord. HouEL states that there are only two points of the body of the foetus at which adhesions of the placenta or membranes are found to exist, viz., the head and the abdomen; of these, the former are by far the most common. Prolapsus of the intestines is always noticed in conjunction with these adhesions, the cause of wliich the author believes to be the shortness of the umbiHcal cord, and the consequent constrained position of the foetus. Meyeu believes that when narrowing or obliteration of the pul- monary arteries coexist with a ventricular communication, the former is a cause of the latter; and that the deviations in respect to the mode of origin of the aorta, the foramen ovale, &c., are de- pendent on the same circumstance. Dorsch describes a case in which the inferior vena cava passed through the diaphragm and upwards on the left side of the aorta, finally crossing over and join- ing the superior vena cava. Bochdalek gives the particulars of a very interesting and rare variation in the arrangement of the pulmo- nary veins and other vessels of the heart in a child, who, neverthe- less, lived four days. Luton relates a case of congenital hydro- cephalus winch was punctured tliree times. The two ventricles were found on the death of the child to be very largely distended with serum. Delacouse believes that the albinos of the equatorial region of the New World are individuals in wliom the scrofulous or l^onphatic diathesis exists. There is a grade intermediate between the albinos and normal individuals, viz., periios—individuals whose skin exhibits patches of coloiu-, giving it a mottled aspect. Both varieties are of weak constitution. The albinos are not capable of propagation. In Delacoue's case, the lower part of the body was normal, but terminated above the umbilicus. There were oidy five dorsal verte- bree and five ribs; the liver large; the kidneys, pancreas, heart, aorta, umbilical arteries, internal genitals, wanting. The foetus thus formed lived till the fifth month. In Maclachlan's case, the cranium was abnost entirely absent. The case related by West was that of a foetus in which the brain and the superior part of the cranimn were Avanting. Maktin relates a case in which a child was born with the iclt arm wanting. The placenta and the spontaneously amputated i