251 DIGESTIVE SYSTEM. knots attended with a iixed pricking pain. Antisyplulitic remedies are of course essential, as well as astringent injections and cau- terizations, while incisions and bougies are employed to produce dilatation. Wade gives some clinical illustrations of the diagnosis and treatment of ulcer of the stomach. After detailing the several symptoms which he considers to indicate the existence of this lesion, lie emphasises the injunction to be guided in forming a conclusion by the presence of all, or the majority, rather than by the promi- nence or severity of any one, even though that should be the im- portant one of haemorrhage. His treatment consists in a milk diet, the quantity taken at one time being restricted to the amount that does not cause pain, together with pills of Argent. Mtr., Opii, aa gr. i; Extractii Bellad., gi: ^; ter die. The patient must return very cautiously to ordinary diet. ^ Habershon records a case of lateral transposition of all the viscera, followed by some remarks on various abnormal positions that may be assumed by the several parts of the gastro-intestinal canal. A case of inflammation of the vena port« is recorded by Stein- berg, occui-ring in the Copenliagen hospital. The patient, a male, a3t. 33, was lU for twenty-seven days, with symptoms at fii-st closely resembhng those of the tyL^hus prevalent the year before, but sub- sequently leading to the diagnosis of pyeemia. At the autopsy the hver was found much enlarged, and aU the ramifications of the portal vein distended with pus. ■ Habershon has pubHshed a paper on pain as a sign of disease of the stomach, in which he advances the foUowing propositions (I.) Acute inflammation and disease of the stomach may be entirely free from pain if the mucous membrane only be affected Some cases of poisoning by corrosive hquids are cited, in which tliere was no pam, or not for some length of time. U.) Oro-anic disease of the mucous membrane, as cancer, may be comparatively free from pam. (3.) Disease extending to tlie muscular or peri- toneal coats produces generaUy severe pain. (4.) Over-distension ot the stomach produces severe pain. (5.) Disease of the perito neum causes severe pain. (6.) As Osborne states, the position of greatest ease may serve to show the seat of dceration as beino- proba ly opposite. (7.) In disease of the lesser curvatui; neav^ pyloric orihce, pam is sometimes experienced by the patient as soon