REPORT ON MlDWIl'KRY, ETC. 33G uterine sinuses. The term "maternal portion of the phicenta/' he rejects aUogether. Priestley's lectures on the development of the gravid uterus contain a summary of the more important recent researches on this subject, witli which arc incorporated the results of personal obser- vations. The histology of the subject has received particular atten- tion in this work. In reference to the early development of the placenta, Priestley found in an ovum of the second month that the villi of the chorioi rooted in the decidua serotina became each of them surrounded by a maternal vascular loop, which ramified into capillaries around the chorion villus. He concludes that by continued growth these ca- pillaries increase in size and number, and each chorial digitation becomes wrapped in the coats of the mother's vessels. On the condition of the interior of the uterus after delivery he offers the following conclusions : The muscular substance of the uterus is nowhere laid bare, nor is there any inflammatory false membrane spread over the surface ; when the membranes are thrown off at the end of labour, a portion of the decidua remains attached to the uterine surface, as a protection against external agencies; a new mucous membrane begins to be formed in the latter months of preg- nancy between the decidua and muscular coat, which undergoes a rapid development after the uterus is emptied of its contents; and as it is gradually perfected it assiunes the functions of the original mucous coat. The work is iUustrated with numerous drawings on wood. Schwartz's essay is an inquiry into the causes, nature, and effects of respiratory movements of the foetus before complete de- livery has occurred.' Dubois had observed that compression of the funis excited movements on the part of the child, and that when, the compression being continued, the mouth approached tlie ex- ternal genitals, inspiratory efforts took place, and air, or in breecli cases meconium and amnionic fluid, passed into the air-passages. Krakmer pointed out that fa-tal respiratory movements have an effect varying according to the surromiding medium, and the pa- tulous or non-patidous state of the respiratory orifices. Thus, the oiienings being free and the foetus in the ammonic fluid, the latter will pass into the lungs. If the openings be closed, the en- Inrgement of the chest will produce certain alterations m the lungs, trace'' of which Krahmer professed to have seen. Inspiratory