468 REPORT ON LEGAL MEDICINE, ETC. Snow.—Drainage and water-supply in connection witli the Public Health. (Med. Times, No. 398, 1858.) . In Vienna there is great dearth of drinking-water. Knolz considers the construction of a large aqueduct for bringing a supply of wholesome water into the town an absolute necessity. There are many rivulets near the town, from wliich an abundant supply might be procured. Their water comes from the glaciers and snow of the high mountains, wliich are only about fifty miles (Enghsh) distant from Vienna. g. Sewers, Drains, and Privies. Barker.—On the influence of Emanations from Drains and Cesspools. Duponchel.—A. new System of Closets for great Public Establishments, particu- larly Barracks, Military and Civil Hospitals. (Ann. d'Hyg., No. 20.) Hofmann and Frankland.—Report on Sewage. (Lancet, 2, 270.) Bernays.—Disinfection of the Thames, and of Sewage. (Med. Times, 2, 155-) Barker subjected animals to the influence of the foul air from privies and sewers, and found various pathological conditions pro- duced, wliich he compared with, and found similar to, the effects produced upon animals by diluted sulphuretted hydrogen gas. DupoNCHEL^s system would be an improvement for most parts of Trance, but offers no new features of interest for tliis country. HoFMAi^N and Prankland have presented an elaborate report to the Metropolitan Board of Works on London sewage. An enormous variety of suggestions were passed in review. They had to consider proposals for disinfection by protosulphate of iron; by superphosphate of magnesia and lime; by galvanic or electric agency; by the manganates and permanganates ; by the ferruginous sulphate of alumina; by clilorine; by " the antiseptic hydrochloric acid, liquefied protosulphate of iron, and chloride of sodium com- bined by perchloride of iron; by sulphuric acid; by the abohtion of waterclosets, and the substitution of boxes containing peat char- coal (G. Garbert, Esq.); by " cendre noire," a pjTito-alurainous lignite much used by the scavengers of Paris; by " pyi-itous peat by " dosing the river at various points with common salt" (C. N. Gattolo, Esq.); by carbolate of lime in solution, and the use of a solid mixture of sulphites and carbolates; by the use of scrap-iron and subsequent filtration; by the separation of the sewage from the rainfall, a plan hitherto impossible, but rendered feasible " by the discovery, in November last, of something in the nature of steam, which was liitherto unknown" (Eev. H. Moule); by a