293 THE URINARY BLADDER. eighth day the instrument was removed^ and the adhesions were ahready strong. One month after the operation there was not the slightest disposition to a retui-n of the hernia. The second, a Liboui-er, forty-nine years okl, had a reducible bubonocele twenty-four years, on the left side. The same operation was practised as ui the previous case. The instrument was discon- tinued on the tenth day. In both cases a small slough formed round the exit-hole of the needle. DISEASES OF, INJURIES TO, AND OPERATIONS UPON, THE URINARY BLADDER. PROLAPSE OF THE VESICAL MUCOUS MEMBRA XE. Patron.—Du renversement de la muqueuse de I'uretre, et de la muqueuse vesi- cale. Seconde partie. [On Prolapsus of the Mucous Membrane of the Urethra and Bladder.] (Archlv. Ge'n. de Med., Dec., 1857.) Canstatt's Jahrb., 1857. Patkox found only a single example of prolapse of the mucous membrane of the bladder on record. He communicates the follow- ing remarkable case :—An otherwise healthy girl, foiu'teen years old, began two years before to experience difficulty in passing mine; the stream was sometimes broken, and occasionally a few di-ops of blood flowed with the urme. A year afterwards, she noticed a small, red tumour between the labia, which prevented the escape of the m-ine, but which disappeared spontaneously after two hours. The tumour soon reappeared, and caused retention, which did not yield till next day on the subsidence of the tumoiu-. At that tijue, when Patron examined the patient, he found only a relaxed state of the vaginal mucous membrane; but a month afterwards, when the tumour again made Its appearance, with great pain, he saw a roundish, smooth, red bleedmgsweUing, of the size of a walnut, between the labia majora seated at the meatus urinaiius, resembling a swoUen htemorrhoid. It was tense, transparent, and could be returned without difficulty through the uretlua into the bladder; the introduction of a catheter at once relieved tlic retention of urine. Patron diagnosed a prolapst^ of the vesical mucous membrane, and ordered a decoction of cypress berries for a lotion, cold hip-baths, and iron internally. In spite of this, the vesical complaint progressed; the girl wasted and became