PHYSIOLOGICAL ACTIOiV OP CERTAIN POISONS. 109 denied by Eosenthal, a greater irritability than healthy ones. More- over, they found that the poisoned muscles can sustain an equal weight with the others. With Upas antiar, veratrin, and tanghinia poison, which act in the reverse way to woorara, namely, by killing the muscles, and not the nerves, similar experiments to the above showed that the poisoned, have much less irritability and power than the healthy muscles. (St.'s J.) Haber, under Eeichert, confirmed the fact that the peripheri of the nerves become first affected by woorara, and after a time the trunk. That the poison only acts tlirough the blood; that the sensory retain their irritability longer than the motor nerves; and that the muscles obey direct stimuli after the nerves have ceased to conduct. He found, moreover, that when woorara is directly applied to the sciatic, sooner or later its motor fibres become affected. ■ Haber says, that the fact of the motor being so much sooner poisoned than the sensory nerves proves that they are chemically different. KoLLiKER confii-ms the statement that the spinal cord is in general not affected by woorara until some hours after the peripheral nerves have been poisoned. He made ten experiments, and found that the reflex action lasted from one and a quarter to four and a quarter hours, at a temperature of 17—18'^ R., and from six to twenty-five hours at a temperature of 5—6° R. HoppB found that the nerves of frogs poisoned with woorara, whether divided or entire, after a time regain their lost in- -fluence over the muscles. He also observed that the rapidity of ■the action of the poison depends in a great measure on the rapidity of the circulation. YuLPiAN relates a series of experiments made upon animals poisoned ^vlth woorara, in which, by artificial respiration, he was able to keep the heart beating for some hours. ruNKE denies that the motor any more than the sensory nerves lose the power of conducting stimuli in animals poisoned with woorara. He says that they only lose the power of communicating the stimdi to the muscles. In proof of this he cites several sxpenments which he performed with the mnltiplicator. Funke also relates some experiments which he made with strychnine, and con- cludes from them that it acts upon the nerves in a somewhat similar nanner to woorara. Peukan says that antiar and antiarine arrest the heart's action.