384 REPORT ON MIDWIFERY, ETC. Stewart.—Anti-lactescent Properties of Compressed Sponge. New Yorlc Journ. of Med. Science, Nov., 1859, 347. CoUis.—Cystic Mammary Tuinoiir. Dub. Hosp. Gaz., 1859, P- S^. Barton.—Two Specimens of Mammary Tumour. II)., p. 22. Skey.—On Tumours of the Mammary Gland in Females, and the Degeneration into Malignant or Benign Growths. (A Clinical Lecture.) Med. Circ, xv, 26. Hess records the case of a patient, ajt. ai, in wliich both breasts, one weighing 10 lbs., the other 5 lbs., were removed. Menstru- ation, previously absent, soon after commenced, and later, preg- nancy supervened. Fano successfully treated a case of lacteal fistula by carefully applied compression of the breast by means of strips of plaister. For the treatment of sore nipples during lactation, Anselmiee re- commends the employment of nipple-shields, which must not be too thick or resistant. Collodion to be used locally. When deep fissures are present finely powdered benzoin is employed with advantage. KouTH describes three varieties of defective lactation : 1. That due to hypereemia. a. That due to anaemia. And 3. That due to functional paralysis or inertia of the breast, usually present in masculine women or those married late in life. The remedies for the latter condition are local, hygienic, dietetic, and medicinal. Treatment includes suction, titillation of the nipple, &c. The sepa- ration of man and wife during the suckling period is, he considers, prejudicial to lactation. As lactagogues, the leaves and stalks of ricinus and fennel are spoken favorably of. Stewart relates a case in wliich the breasts were covered by com- pressed sponge, in order to prevent the formation of milk. The treatment was completely successful. VI. DISEASES OF PREGNANCY AND CHILD-BED. Brucke—Ueher die Glycosurie der Wochnerinnen. [On the Glycosuria of Lying- in Women.] Wien. Med. Wochensch., 19 and 20, 1858. (Canst., vol. iv, p. 416.) Die Drihurger Kur bei Schwangeren. [On the Efficacy of the Driburg Baths during Pregnancy.] Monatsch. f. Geburts., vol. xi. (Canst., vol. iv, p. 416.)