REPORT ON THE INSTITUTES OF MEDICINE. 104 Gigon shows tliat urine, from which all the mucus has been removed, acquires a milkiness with cliloroform, and still further, that urine which never contained any mucus at all, gives the same reaction, lie obtained the latter by taking it directly from the pelvis of the kidney of the Hving animal. The urine of the ox, after the mucus has been removed by filtration, gives no precipitate with cliloroform. To prove that the precipitate from human urine is really composed of albumen, Gigon collects, dries, and after- wards redissolves it in acetic acid. The solution gives the reaction of albumen with ferrocyanide of potassium. The quantity of albiunen daily passed in healthy human urine, the author says, is about 2'6 grammes. Heynsius says that normal urine contains no albiunen. On account of the contents of the tubuli uriniferae being acid. The urine, he imagines, becomes albuminous as soon as it is alkaline. VuLPiAN confirms the existence of a peristaltic action in the ureters. His experiments were mostly made upon animals rendered insensible by woorara. The peristaltic action continues even after the ureter is separated from the kidney, which proves that it is not the stimulus of the urine which calls it into action. BarkoVs anatomical researches on the human urinary bladder, together with his observations on the male and female urethra, are, unfortunately, too long for abstract. GiRALDES describes a small, glandular-looking organ in the spermatic cord, near to where the tunica vaginalis propria is re- flected to form the serous sac. It does not communicate with the spermatic duct. He found the organ in children as well as in adults, and names it " corps iimomine." ON THE PHYSIOLOGICAL ACTION OF CERTAIN POISONS. Weston.—On the Poison of the Common Adder. Lancet, 2i8t May, 1859, p. 522. Livingstone.—S«r la Tsetsd. [On the Tsetse.] L'Institute, No. 1296, p. 364. Waller.—On the Means by which tlie Actinise kill their Prey. Proc. Roy. Soc, No. 34, p. 722. Harley.—On the Treatment of Tetanus by Woorara Poison. Lancet, 1st Oct, 1859. P- 34S- WeUs (Spencer).—Three Cases of Tetanus in which Woorara was used m the Treatment. Med. Times and Gaz., 3d Dec, 1859, p. 564. Broca (Paul).—Sur le traitment du te'tanos par le Cuiare. [On the Treatment of Tetanus by Woorara.] Gaz. des IIopitaux,Oct 2gi\\ and Nov. 3d, 1859.