DISEASES AU'ECTING THE GEXlCRAL SYSTEJ[. 149 diy cuppiug in typhoid fever, with che^t complicatiou. He applies from 40 to 80 (!) cups in the day, half in morning, half in the evening. In Algeria, the best remedy for the bite of the viper Bicormi, is found to be the expressed juice or the decoction of the Euphorbia Guyoniana, a plant which grows abundantly in green tufts, in most of the places infested by these venomous reptiles. Tor the fu-st dose, eiglit to ten drops of the juice in water; an hour after, a second, with five ch'ops; and two or tlu'ee liours after, a thii'd, of five drops; a fom-th and fifth, of the same strength, may be given at intervals of thi-ee or four houi-s, if the symptoms continue. The decoction is to be made with a small handful of stalks to about two pints of water, boiling for ten minutes. The tympanitis of typhoid fever, according to M. Cochenil, is treated successfully by repeated fomentations of liq. sod. claloriuat., diluted M'ith water, applied to the abdomen. EiSELT believes that, in melanotic cancer, the urine may be made available as a means of diagnosis. If treated with nitric or chromic acid, or exposed for some time to air and light, it becomes of a dark colom-, Avithont losing its transparency. Heidenhaix, Avho has practised for twenty-eight years at Marien- werder, in Western Prussia, where intermittent fever and its con- geners are rife, makes some interesting observations with respect to the relation between malarious disease and epidemic cholera. On the cessation of cholera in 1831, intermittents ceased entirely in Marienwerder, and did not occur in the epidemic form until 1849. Even in 1844, after an inundation had subsided, and the atmosphere was poisoned with effluvia of decomposing vegetable matter, inter- mittents did not appear. But in 1849, ^^^^'^ the cholera, all the forms of intermittent fever retui-ned with greater frequency; in 1850 and 1851 they increased still more j and in 1853, the bad year of the cholera, they were at their maximum, but did not, as in 1831, dis- appear with the cholera, but remained the prominent form of disease until the autumn of 1856, since whicli tune they have diminished. Gairdnee, in a paper on the treatment of gout, recommends in sthenic cases small bleedings from the arm, or cupping to the neck; the employment of mild, warm pui-gatives ; the vegetable salts of the alkalies; tonics in the later parts of the disease. He does not seem to liavc a higli opinion of colchicmn, advising it only to be used