REl'OllT ON PRACTICAL MEDICINE. 152 of silver. Liq. soda) cliloriiiat. has also been found very useful. Ti'acheotoiny lie discountenances. ' The Lancet Sanitary Commission Eeport ou Diphtheria' will well repay perusal. The historical introduction, among many facts of interest, contains some showing that the disease is not solely dependent on tlie un- healthiness of the localities where it prevails. Wherever it has existed, among many varieties of its seat and symptoms, it has always pre- served its distinctive characters, and required the same kind of treat- ment. As yet, no influence or condition has been detected to which the production of diphtheria can be ascribed. It has prevailed at all seasons, and in all weathers; but it appears that excessive alterna- tions of temperature, or of the density of the air, favour its develop- ment. Its spread, the writer believes, to be occasioned in great measui-e by contagion; and relates some remarkable instances in which it was evidently thus commimicated. Diphtheric affection of the skin (after the epidermis had been removed) was often observed in the Trench epidemics; sores of this kind are peculiarly inapt to heal. The first ajjpearance of dijolitheria in England (at least, of the present epidemic) occurred in the south-eastern counties, at the be- ginning of 1857. Almost simultaneously a disease, which probably was diphtheria, prevailed in Cornwall. It spread throughout the country, not appearing by any means to restrict its ravages to marshy and unhealthy districts, though in Essex and Somersetsliire it proved very fatal. In some places scarlatina w£is prevalent at the same time; and there is much reason to suspect that cases of tliis disease, of diphtheria and of other tkroat affections, have been confounded together. The writer corroborates the usual opinion, that, as a rule, there is no loss of substance of tlie afl^ected part; the surface, after the removal of the diphtheric membrane, being found uitact, but more or less congested and bleeding at the points where the exudation was adherent. Sometimes, however, ulceration does occur. The struc- ture of the diphtheric membrane shows that it is cliiefly to be re- garded as altered and thickened epithelium, than as a fibrinous exudation. It consists of molecular particles, matted epithelixmi- cells of all kinds and shapes, pus, and blood-corpuscles. As to con- sistence, it may be hard or soft, variously coloured, and more or less putrid. Tlu-ee distinct forms may be distinguished under whicli diphtheria has appeared. The first may be called simple. There is some fever and headache and difficulty of deglutition. The exuda-