GENITO-URINARY ORGANS. 99 cases, come off directly from branches of the artery, so that the blood in them does not necessarily pass tlirough the Malpighian bodies. Beale further says that there are two, tliree, or even four, branches of the artery running close to each other for some distance, which at last terminate in the straight vessels, or anastomose with other branches. In cases of obstruction of the trunk of an artery the circulation through its tributaries will still be maintained. And in cases of disease when the circulation tlixough the cortical portion of the kidney is interfered with, part of the blood passes through the straight vessels in the cones and is returned by the veins. ♦Our author dissents from Virchow's opinion regarding the formation of tube-casts only in the straight, and not in the convoluted portion of the uriniferous tubes, and is more inclined to adopt Johnson's view of their formation taking place in the latter. Ringer made his observations on two untreated cases of ague- one of quotidian, and one of tertian—in University CoUege Hospital, under the care of Professor Parkes; and they are recorded in a series of charts and tables, showing the foUowing particulars: The temperature of the body commenced to rise from forty-five to ninety minutes before any change was perceived by the patient and continued to rise during the whole of the cold stage and durmg part of the hot; it feU during the latter part of the hot, and the whole of the sweating stage. The severity of the ht could be determined by the character of the rise whether rapid or with oscillations, and by the variations of the temperature during the several stages; but the charts of temperature, and the comments given at length in the paper, must be consulted in order to exhibit this ckarly. The urea was found to increase during the fit, as stated by Traube. The increase commenced before the feeling of cold, and before indeed the rise in the temperature. The maxi mmn mcrease m the amount of urea was at the end of the cold and at the commencement of the hot stage; and from this point the tShe t ^^^'^^^"^ There were varia! W f-"^'" corresponding to variations in tempera- ture, but often preceding them a little. The amount of increase was considerable (from .00 to 500 per cent.), and wa Ste watertr Ir 1 ^^^^^--^^ ^y the excretion of water The cliloride of sodium passed was also increased and varied with the temperature, but in a much less d g ee The increase was at its maximum at the same period as the urea. The