57 ON THE ORGANS OF SENSE. With respect to the velocity of sound, which has hitherto been found experimentally, to exceed the velocity obtained by theory, it is shown that the value obtained by approximative methods is the minimum limit of sound-velocity, so that the actual velocity will be always greater; the excess depending on the intensity and genesis of the sound. It is shown that aU the parts of a wave do not travel at the same rate—a circumstance which leads to the formation of a bore in the front of a wave. Several previously unexplained pheno- mena, such as the double report of firearms heard at a great dis- tance, the outrunning of one sound by another, observed by Capt. Parry, the comparative powers of different gases of transmitting sounds, and the laws of transmission of sound from one medium to another, are accounted for and directly deduced from the integral of the equation of wave-motion. The relation between pressm-e and velocity is shown to be that which is expressed by the equation— from which several new results are obtained. Scott Alison found that sounds which are faint when heard by a hearing-tube dii-ectly applied to solid sounding bodies, become augmented when water is interposed between these bodies and the distal extremity of the hearing-tube. He has been able to hear, by the employment of water, the sound of a solid body, such as a table, which, without this medium, has been inaudible. The result of augmentation is greatest when the hearing-tube is immersed freely in water. A piece of wood not thicker than a paper-cutter, when interposed between the water employed and the mouth of the hear- ing-tube, materiaUy interferes with the augmenting power of the water. The hearing-tubes employed by Alison are various. Many of the experiments were performed with his differential stethophone, an mstrument described in No. 31, of the 'Proc. Roy. Soc' Tubes closed at their distal extremity with solid material, such as glass, do not answer so weU as those closed with membrane. A water- bag mcreases the impression conveyed to the ear by the wooden stethoscope, af it be placed between the flat ear-piece and the external ear. The name of hydrophone has been given to it. BoxNAFONT says that he examined the drum of the ear with a speculum, and could never detect it vibrating, even when powerful