115 PARASITES. views, who say that the Tcenia solium is most frequently found among people who use pork as a common article of diet. For example, in Poland and Hungary. On the other hand, it is rarely met with among Jews and Mohammedans, whose rehgion pro- hibits the use of pig's flesh. Yon Siebold says that the vitality of the scohces of tape-worm is not destroyed by the process of curing; but Kuchenmeister differs from him, and thinks that the pickling and smoking of hams destroys it equally as well as cooking. Stone reports a fatal case of Sarcina ventriculi which came under the care of Dr. Barker. The patient, a woman aged sixty-four, was ill during tliree months with symptoms of dyspepsia. For the last nine weeks she suffered from constant vomiting; not even water would remain on her stomach. Yomited matters were bright-green, soupy, and yeast-hke, and full of sarcina. Died from exhaustion. Post- mortem.—M{ the organs found healthy. Stomach contained a quantity of fluid similar to that vomited during life. QuECKETT was the first to point out that vegetable parasites fre- quently occur in the skeleton of corals. Kolliker has taken up the subject and extended liis observations over a number of species of animals—Spongise, Toraminifera, Corals, Bivalves, Bracliiopods, Gasteropods, Annehds,Cirrhipods, and Fishes. In all of these he looks upon the parasite as a unicellular fungus, and not belonging to the Confervse. It seems probable that they bore their canals by mechanical force, as is the case when vegetable parasites make their way through the ceU-membranes of plants. Nearly aU the parasites spoken of occur in marine animals. It may be further noticed that the author says, "These parasites afford an excellent means for demonstrating the double-refracting power of the shells." Farre gives an anatomical description of an entozoa previously figured and described by Mr. Laurence in the 'Med.-Cliir. Trans ' vol. u, p. 385, 1811. Dr. Farre had seen the woman, and even removed some of the worms from her bladder, so (he says) that there could be no doubt that the entozoon came from that viscus He also examined the bladder after death; but was unable to detect any worms, or disease in the organ. The worm has neither mouth nor alimentary canal; nor does it possess any generative organs. It is soHd, and is composed of muscular fibres connective tissue, and nucleated ceUs. In some specimens nume' rous shining, tendinous bands of fibres are observed crossin^j tbe abdommal aspect of the worm, near to the extreme ends of the