161. nUPOKT ON PRACTICAL MEDfClNK., 39 males and 28 females; and that in ages above ten years, the preponderance of fatal cases was in females, the numbers being 2 males and 11 females. As to the duration of the disease, in four in- fants iinder one year, the main duration was four days; at each of the other ages, it was from nine to eleven days. As to the modes of death, and the period at wlifch they prevailed, it appears from Dr. Ballard's tables, that " the danger from which a fatal result is mainly to be apprehended, in the course of the fu-st week of the disease, is exten- sion of the latter to the upper part of the air-passages, and conse- quent asphyxia. The sudden deaths in this week are probably due I0 the same cause, giving rise to spasmodic closure of the glottis. As the malady advances into the second week, the chances of death from tliis cause are only equal to those from the general prostration of the vital powers. In the third and foui-th weeks, the latter is the condition mostly to be dreaded; the sudden deaths at this time being probably due to syncope." As to the social position of the patients, it appears that "the fatality of epidemic sore-throat_ and diphtheria appears to have been half again as great in the middle as in the lower ranks of society, when a comparison is made with the mortality arising out of diseases of all kinds." As to the rela- tion of scarlatina to diphtheria. Dr. Ballard's researches are opposed to the views of their identity. Of forty-seven cases no less than twelve were persons who had suffered an attack of scarlatina pre- viously He mentions a case in which scarlatina attacked a child and proved fatal tlu-ee or four months after its recovery bom diph- theria. In no case has diphtheria been commumcated from n patient having scarlatina, unless the latter disease was also commu- nicated. The mortality of diphtheria and scarlatina has not variei in a like manner. The relation of diphtheria to other forms of sore-throat appeared very similar to that of diarrhoea to mabgnanl cholera. Out of forty-seven families in which a death from diph- theria occurred, there were oiily fifteen in wliich all the other members escaped either diphtheria or sore-throat. Several instances are adduced in which the infectious nature of diphtheria was very apparent. In more than half the number of houses w nch were examined the sanitary arrangements were more or less defective, 111 most tlie drainage was at fault. <• 1 ■ Eade, of Norwich, after recording several cases of paralysi.^ occurring as the sequel of diphtheria, subjoins the following