DISEASES AFFECTING THE GENERAL SYSTEM. 137 depend on the breathing movements; there does not even appear to exist any close relation between the two. Relative to the influence of age, Schnepf concludes that before the age of ten the capacity of the lungs increases yearly about 140 c.c, so that at the age of ten the mean is about 1400, and that to obtain approximatively the capacity for an age below this, it is sufiicieiit to multiply the given number by the age. Between the agesof ten and twentytheyearlyincrease amounts to above 260 c.c, except for the first years. At the age of twenty the capacity reaches its maximum, and afterwards declines, but in an irregular manner, so that no yearly number of decrease can be stated. In the female sex the pulmonary capacity is considerably less than in the male. The capacity increases in general with the height, yet persons of the same height may differ in their capacities 1200—1300 c.c. The circumference of the thorax (taken at the nipples) has no determinate relation to the capacity. In one fourth of the observations made to determine the point it was found that the capacity was the same when the stomach was full as when it was empty; in another fourth the inspiration and expiration w^ere both greater when the stomach was empty; in the remaining half the capacity was greater when the stomach was full. CzERMAK strongly recommends the use of Garcia's laryngeal speculum for the examination of the larynx and adjacent parts. The instrument consists of a small, oblong mirror, fixed to a suitably bent wire. The mirror is introduced deeply into the tliroat till its lower margin meets the posterior wall of the pharynx, the soft palate being pushed upwards. With a little practice the whole base of the tongue, the epiglottis, the upper and lower chordae vocales, the ventricles, the mucous lining of the arytenoid cartilages, and the posterior pharyngeal wall as far down as the oesophagus, nay, on deep inspiration a considerable part of the interior of the trachea, can be brought into \dew. By turning the reflecting smface of the mirror upwards, a view can be obtained of the posterior surface of the soft palate, and of the upper part of the pharyngeal cavity. TiiRK gives a description, with figures, of the laryngeal speculum he employs, with copious details of directions for its use. Eor these we must refer to the paper, only remembering that it is necessary to heat the speculum moderately before introducing it into the mouth, to prevent the condensation of vapour on its surface. Semeleder recommends the employment of a concave mirror, perforated in the centre, and fitted to the examiner's eye, as an im-