GENERAL PATHOLOGY AND SYMPTOMATOLOGY. 135 " involution " has set in. In the latter the heart retires more from the surface of the chest, and is covered more or less by the anterior tliin part of the left lung. The swelling up of the heart, or the increase of its vertical diameter, when lying on its posterior flat sm-face, is, according to Hamernik, the cause of the impulse. That the heart during systole moves downwards, or from left to right, he quite disbelieves. Geehabdt has made inquii-ies relative to the limits of the heart's dulness.—(a.) In healthy individuals,lying on the back and breathing quietly, he finds that the right or internal boundary Hne corresponds with the left border of the sternum. The lower border of the cardiac dulness runs from the lowest extremity of the preceding outwards and a httle downwards to join the external at the level of the sixth costal cartilage, or occasionally of the seventh or fifth. The length of this border is about one tliird that of the length of the sternum. The upper and left boundary is made up of a shorter portion sloping a httle downwards, and another longer running more decidedly downwards and outwards. Tliis line, thus bent at an obtuse angle or curved, commences at the lower border of the fourth left rib. (b.) Changes during deep inspiration and expiration consisted in a decrease and descent during inspiration, an enlargement and ascent during expiration; the right boundary, however, almost always remaining unaltered. The mean advance of the left boundary inwards and to the right during deep inspiration was centim., the upper boundary descended about 2^ centim. In deep expiration the upper boundary receded if centim., the right lower lung-boundary centim., the left cardiac limit a figure intermediate to the two. (c.) Alterations depending on the right or left lateral position were evident. In the left lateral position the left cardiac limit advanced 11—7 centim. outwards; the right limit was unchanged. In the right lateral position the heart's impulse is still felt at or near the same spot as in the supine, but it is weaker; right ventricle pulsation, however, becomes more evident under the xiphoid process. In the lateral positions two displacements, which are only exceptional in the supine position, are almost constantly observed, viz., in inspiration while lying on the left side movement of the right limit towards the left, and in expiration on the opposite side movement of the same limit to the right. Gerhardt infers from the above—(i.) That extensive pleural adhesions in the vicinity of the heart will impair its mobility in every direction, and of course diminish the variations in the extent of its