ttlirOET ON I'UACTJCAL MKDlCINJf,. was used). Tlic man was aged 38, robiisi, in good lieallli, and Mas' sitting still in an easy chair at the time of his fatal seizure. Maiikham discusses the physical signs and general symptoms of pericarditis. Eeid records four cases of thoracic aneurism, with clinical remarks, especially relating to contraction of the pupil, and the modus operandi of belladonna in producing dilatation. The tliii-d case is one of that peculiar disorder of respiration, in which every few seconds the movements become greatly accelerated and laboured, and again in a few seconds decline to the normal rate. The pulse was accelerated remarkably from the latter half of the period of rcspii-atory distress to the end of the tb-st half of the same period. Orthopnoea existed. After tliree weeks'rest in the hospital, the respiratory distress almost entirely disappeared. Autopsies were obtained of the second and fourth cases; in the first and third they were refused. In some remarks on some points iu the diagnosis and treatment of heart disease, Barlow contrasts the differences of the pulse and other symptoms in aortic and mitral-valve disease. The latter far more than others gives rise to pulmonary and hepatic congestion, and to impeded biliary and urinary excretion. Stimulants are far more useful (especially senega) in aortic disease than in mitral, in which we must cliieiiy look to relieving the engorged portal circula- tion by catharsis, and the pulmonary by inducing expectoration. Barlow remarks that a dilated ventricle in an aneemic person wath lax arteries will present most, if not all, the symptoms of aortic-valve disease, and the same may be said of disease of the ascending aorta. Other forms of pulmonary obstruction may present all the symptoms of diseased mitral valve, murmur inclusive. A case of latent thoracic aneurism is described by Eobinson. The patient suffered from pains referred to the left side of the chest, and to a s])ot opposite the fourth or fifth dorsal ver- tebra. He had puri form expectoration and paroxysmal cough, of a very peculiar sound. After many months a low, deep-seated systolic murmur was detected, certainly not proceeding from the heart. Death occurred suddenly, but not from biu-stiug of the aneui'ism. GuBLER records two cases in which, after the proportion of white and red corpuscles had been observed during a cachectic malady to