REPORT OiN MlDWIFlillY, liTC. 402 in thickness autl cliarncter, occupied the upper portions of the respi- rntory passages, extending h)M er down in most cases. Tiie lungs exhibited hypostasis, lobuhir and lobar pneumonia, collapse, oedema, and emphysema. Tlic duration of the disease varied from half a day to eleven days. The ])ronchial and lung affections were, in the author's opinion, the chief efficient causes of death. Tracheo- tomy was em])loyed in four cases, without success in all. Lus- zinky's method of treatment, viz., by carbonate of potash, was not found to be of service. BouciiUT and Empies found, that in eleven out of fifteen cases of croup, albuminm-ia was present, disappearing with the disease. BouciiUT states that the mortality from croup has been increasing very rapidly during the last fifteen years, which he attributes to the surgical treatment of this disease of late in vogue. BouciiUT proposes a new method of treatment in cases of croup, viz., catheterism, or tubage of the glottis. The silver tube used for the purpose is cylindrical, straight, nearly an inch long. Two rounded projections receive, as in a kind of slit, the inferior vocal cords on each side, and the tube is thus kept vt sUu. The tube is introduced by means of a male catheter, open at its two ends. In Bouchut's cases the treatment was, however, not successful. Gros reports a case of croup treated by Bouchut's method, and which ended favorably. Maitlu states that favorable results have followed the application of glycerine to the interior of the larynx in cases of croup. BoucHUT describes a new phenomenon in the latter stages of croup—auEEsthesia of the skin. This, which is the commencement of asphyxia, is, he states, tlie period for operative measures. Beoadbext records a case of tracheotomy for croup in a child ten months old. The operation was for a time successful, but death took place without any apparent cause thirty-three hours after. In reference to tlie operation of tracheotomy in croup, Coxway Evans contends that the objections entertained in this country and in America to the operation are Avithout vahd foundation. These objections he severally examines and discusses, with the view of showing that the operation is really less dangerous and difficidt than usually su])posed. The early performance of tlic operation is insisted on; the causes of death, when death occurs after the operation, examined, and the circumstances whicli tend to dimmish the chances of success from the operation referred to. On the