400 REPORT ON MIDWIFERY, ETC. Cormak.—Ueber die Nntur und Behandlung der Liingenscliwindsuclit. [On Uie Nature and Treatment of Pulmonary Consumption.] Erluny, 1858. (Cansl., iv, 438.) Schuh.—Blutgefi'sschwiimme liei Kindern. [Vascular Tumours in Children.] Jahrb. f. Kinderk., 1858, part 2. (Canst., iv, 434.) Legendre.—Bcseitigung der Gefiissmuttermiiller durch Vaccination. [Vaccination for tlie removal of Najvi Materni.] Arcliiv. Gdn. J. f. Kinderk., 3 and 4, 1858. (Canst., iv, 434.) Bokai,—Kephalohxmafoma der Ijciden Scheitelgcgcnden. [Double Cephalo-lise- matomata.] Jahrb. f. Kinder., 1858, part 2. (Canst., iv, 434.) Bierbaum.—Encephalo-hfcmatoma verura. M. Z. v. V. f. II. in P. Jahrg., i, 1858, No. 38. (Canst., iv, 434.) Rigby.—Two Cases of Cranial Blood-swelling, witli remarks on the Nature of these Tumours. Obstet. Trans., vol. i, p. 231. PiCKFOUD relates a case of asphyxia neonatorum successfully treated on the Marshall Hall method. Under the term angina pharyngea oedematosa, Wertheimee dis- tinguishes an inflammatory serous infiltration of the submucous cellular tissue of the throat. The respiration is quickened, difiicult, and accompanied by a peculiar gurgling sound. It occurs chiefly in sickly cliildren, with white skin and imperfect osseous development. Emetics are of great efficacy in the treatment of the affection. Plagge relates the case of a child, otherwise healthy, set. 2i who was affected with enlargement of the glands under the right ear. Larjmgismus set in, and was cured by the application of iodine over the cervical enlargement. As examples of thymic astlnna, Schottin relates three cases, two of which were fatal. The superior part of the thymus was enlarged, tliickened, and structui-aUy altered. The pressiu-e of the thymus on the vagus, or the large vessels in the neighbourhood, and induced primary or secondary irritation of the vagus or of its recurrent, which latter, reflected on the glottis, produced the disease. Jendrassik considers that the structure of the thymus gland is analogous to that of the organs connected the lymphatic system, especiaUy with that of the follicles of Peyer's glands m the intestine. . , 1 • . The work of Priedleben is an elaborate inquiry into the lustory, structure, diseases, &c., of the thymus gland. A very ^copious analysis of the work is given in 'Canstatt's Jahresb., 1858, vol. iv, p. 443. . .^ Moore relates a fatal case of bronchitis lu a dnld, ret. 9 months. In subsequent papers cases are related, and remarks appended by the