NERVOUS SYSTEM. 195 by division. The dental nerve was previously divided without success, A case of lu-ethralgia, by Cortes, yielded to frictions of chloro- form liniment after quinine and various other means had failed. A successful case of di\dsion of the i^opliteal nerve for neuralgia in the leg is related by Hooicer. After the operation some ulcers on the leg speedily healed, the pain disappeared, and the health improved. A case is recorded by Sloane, which he entitles "neuralgia of the l)rachial plexus simulating wasting palsy." Wet cold seems to have been the exciting cause. After exposure to tliis every day for a week he was attacked with violent pain in the left shoulder, left neck, and upper arm. The pain continued for eight months or so, and then gradually ceased; but the deltoid was then greatly wasted, and lie had no power of flexing the left elbow. Sensation was at this time perfect, but Ave months later was greatly impaired in the left upper arm. Two months later, he suddenly lost the use of all liis hmbs, and gradually sank in the course of five days, retaining his cerebral fimctions unimpaired to the last. ^ The same report also gives the notes of a case of wasting palsy. An account of the effects of lightning upon eight persons —four males, four females—is given by Fleming. These were cliiefly scorclung, as by intense heat, of parts of the dress and person, and phenomena of nervous prostration, numbness and debility. Tour of the whole number appeared at fii-st to have been struck dead, but in half an hour recovered sufficiently to be removed to their homes. The scorched parts of the body became the seat of troublesome sores, which were some months in heahng. Case of hemiplegia, with symptoms resembling paralysis agitans and movements like those of chorea, cured by a pill containing Ol' Crotoms, m^; Extr. Col. co., gr. iij; o. n., in eighteen days. A paper on alternating palsies, especially hemiplegias, as the con- sequence of disease of the pons Varolii, by A. Gubler. An account of a remarkable case of paralysis of the motor nerves of the face and of the upper extremities, as weU as of the tongue and oesophagus, is given by Dumenil. At the post- mortem the facial, hypoglossal, and anterior spinal roots, except the lower, were found notably atrophied. The gustatory, glosso-pharyn- gea^^ chordae tympani, fifth pair, and the vagi, were quite normal. VA ILKS, m a paper on sanguineous meningeal effusion, sponta-