DIGESTIVE SYSTEM. 239 regards the situation of the cancerous growth, it was found to oc cupy the pylorus in 219 out of 360 cases. Leaked gives his experience and that of Adams relative to the treatment of tapeworm. He ranks kamala as equal in efficacy to spirits of tui-pentine and oil of male fern, and superior to kousso. Adams does not think it has any superiority over other acknow- ledged anthehnintics. The dose of kamala is (for adults) one di-achm or more of the powder, or two drachms of the tincture, to be taken every tlu-ee hours till six doses. If the griping or other effects are severe, or if the worm is all expelled before the above quantity is taken, the remedy may be omitted earlier. It is well to combine it with hyoscyamus. rLEMiXG recommends the administration of nitrate of silver in severe dyspepsia and clironic inflammation of the stomach, after a more efficient manner than has been yet employed. The local action IS what he looks to. He therefore either gives a dose, from half a grain to four grains in solution on an empty stomach at bed-time desu-ing the patient to roll about afterwards, or he injects it hy means of a flexible tube. He is weU satisfied of the thoroue'li efficiency of the proceeding. HiLLiER contributes a paper on diphtheria, giving an historical account of tlie disorder, or of such as seem to have resembled It closely, and reviewing the experience Avliich has been recenth- gamed m our own country respecting it. His conclusions are"- (i.j iJiat there has been in London and tliroughout England tor many months past, an epidemic of scarlatina and of scarlatinal angina, which has frequently taken a diphtheritic form. That there has been a great prevalence of many other varieties of andnn (2. That there has been in some parts of the country an epidemic" and m this part of London (St. Pancras) some isolated cases, of tru,' pnmary diphtherite, such as described by Brelonneau. (o ) That in some places the epidemics have coexisted. (4.) That some observers both of late and m ancient times, have confounded tlie two diseases ' HuTCim-soN records a case of severe "ulcerative stomatitis" (^0 caUed) which was cured by the local application only of strono- 0 anvLf 't'""- """"^ ^^^^-^^ °f ^'^^ ^bsenc^ ot anj notable ulceration, and considers, in conformity with Bre- onncau s view, that buccal diphtheria would be the most corrl t term to designate the disorder. Kenxedy makes some remarks on the diagnosis of aneurismal