302 REPORT ON SURGERY. The incision should be made from behind forwards, and great care shouhl bo taken to divide the whole length of the contracted part. This is absolutely essential to success, and the lips of the wound are to be maintained apart, and healing by first intention prevented by subsequent catheterism. The non-dilatability and contractility of a stricture, and not its jncrc narro^Tiess, constitute its gravity. Thompson has generally employed Civiale's urethrotome, the bulb of M'liich nearly equals No. 5; for smaller strictures, Thompson figures an instrument of his own contriving. Trom notes of forty- two cases, he says, that in two only in which incisions w-ere made in the bulbous portion of the urethra was there free hfEraorrhage; and in all the other cases it was slight. He had never seen perineal abscess, extravasation, or pyremia, follow incisions of the kind he recommends. Leeoy reports a case of traumatic stricture, which was twice treated by division through the periuEEum; a relapse, attended by threatening symptoms, followed each operations which was the " boutonniere" performed without a guide. Uytteehoeven has added a sort of cutting cork-screw^ to CiAdale's scarificator. He has employed tliis modified instrument with advan- tage in one case of impenetrable strictm-e. CiviALE di-aws a parallel between the principal modes of treatment, and defends the internal division of strictui-es, because it is simple and certain to divide the morbid tissue without toucliing the healthy, and because the -n ounds, not being exposed to the air, heal without suppuration or general symptoms. BoiNET had used seven times, with success, a shght modification of Bonnet's scarificaieur perfore. Sedillot figiures Maisonneuve's instrument with the improvement that the blade is concealed during its passage to the stricture. He does not employ dilatation with the bougie afterwards, and considers the patient cui-ed directly, in proof of which he reports eleven suc- cessful cases. The first of these were operated on two years ago, and in none has a relapse taken place. Heath says the calculus, impacted in the urethra, formed a tumour of the size of a wakut, in the median line at the back of the scrotum. It was removed through an external incision, and resembled the head and beak of a bird; it measured rather more than two inches in length, and rather less than one inch and a quarter across.