225 hespieatory system. traction or impediment. Acute catarrh may cause tlie well-known "oedema circa glottidem" in the aryteno-epiglottic folds. The effused material is sometimes fibrinous, and produces abscess. In- llammation of the perichondrium is not very rare; it occurs chiefly in connection with typhoid fever, or pyaemia. Chronic catarrh may cause laryngeal contraction by inducing hypertrophy of the mucous tissues. So may diphtheritic exudation. Epithelial growths, fibrous polypi, lipomata, syphilitic disease, the Greek leprosy, tuberculous ulcerations, typhoid ulcers, variolous pustules (the cicatrices of), scurvy, spasm of the glottis, foreign bodies, external tumours, &c.,' may all have the above effect. ' Green relates the following fact relative to the antagonism be- tween phtliisis and ague. A marsh in Eutland (U.S.) having been converted into a pool, ague disappeared, but pulmonary phthisis became so rife that, at the request of the inhabitants, the marsh was restored, whereupon the fevers resumed their sway and phthisis ceased. In pertussis, vaccination has sometimes had a beneficial effect the vaccine pustule pursuing its regular course. Tannin in doses of about five grains daily, with saline infusion of senna, has been very successful. A case is recorded by Poskek in which a phthisical girl, of scrofu- lous habit, suffering under puhnonary phthisis and hysteria, together with a perfect paralysis of the tongue as to motion and sensation and complete aphonia, was cured of these latter symptoms by con' tinued Faradization. ' Case of pleiuisy of the right side, ^ ith emboli of the ri-ht pul monary artery, recorded by Keyser. The patient lived five days after the first symptoms of arterial obstruction. There was some tuberculosis of the lungs. Dense fibrinous clots existed in the right ventnclc, in the pidmonary artery, and especially in its riaht division, M-hich was completely obstructed by them. Tlie diffusion of watery vapoui- in the air is strongly recommended by Debi^-hah as a moans of warding-off bronchitis in patients who nave undergone tracheotomy. LuzsiNSKY, from his large experience at the Vienna Children's ofT! n'T '''r? as a disease depending on a particular crasis of the blood, "which determmes pseudo-membranous deposits these being only the local and simple expression of the general 15