240 REPORT OX PRACTICAL MEDICINK. from other abdominal tumours, by means of observing tlie effect of ii deep inspiration upon the tumour. Banks records an interesting case of ascites apparently depending upon hepatic disease, in M'hich tapping was performed twenty times in the course of fifteen months. After the last tapping there has been no recurrence of dropsical accumulation, and now, at the expi- ration of seven months, she declares she was never in better health. Banks looks on the case as important, as showing that we ought not to despair in every case of ascites appearing to depend on ob- structive disease of the liver. No remedy was of any avail to arrest the peritoneal effusion. The strength was weU sustained by a generous diet. Two cases of severe and dangerous diaiThoca are quoted from the ' Presse Med. Beige,' which were cured by the admhiistration of half an ounce of white sugar every four- hours. No other food or medicine. A paper of interest by Dix, respectmg the diagnosis of renal and hepatic tumoui-s in the ' British Medical Journal,' January ist, 1859. Chlorine inhalation (Liq. Chlorin. in boiHng water) found verj- useful in a bad case of diphtheria, by Hodson. Some papers on the ailments of the stomach are contributed by Oke. He describes the following states : the neuralgic, the arid, the acid, the bilious, the inflated, the depraved, the spasmodic, the hsmor- rha"-ic, the inflamed, and the cancerous. Some remarks are made by Eattuay on the acute dysentery of China. In two autopsies, the large intestine was found to be tlie cMef «eat of the disease; the mucous membrane higldy inflamed, extensively ulcerated, and more or less gangrenous. The most com- mon cause of the disorder is a chill caught by sleeping in draughts, uncovered, or on deck in the open air. Brixton, in the 'Croonian Lectm-es,' considers the pathology, varieties, and treatment of intestinal obstruction. He demonstrates the inco;rectness of the opinion, that faecal vomiting is due to an antiperistaltic movement, and shows that the ordinary propulsiv action will, under circmnstances of obstmction, produce a central returning cmTent. The paralytic state of the bowel for some di.- Ince above the obstruction he refers partly to distension of the n u cuW layer, partly to inflammatory action. The pam winch Xers explri;nce is, lie thinks, of two kinds-one occasioned hstensiou of the vessels teUing upon their nervous plexuses win h .rcompanv them, the other produced by distension ol the intestine.