32 REPORT ON TIIK INSTITUTES OF MEDICINE. Species cxnmined. The relative weiglit of tlie blood to tliat of the body. RANGED BETWEEN AVEaAGE. 3 1 : 74'0 — I : 19-4 1 : 49 0 4 I : 33'o — I : IS'9 I : 20-5 4 I : 20-4 — I : 15-4 I : I7'2 4 I : lyi — I : io'9 I : 2I'J Mararaalia(man included) 8 1 : 181 — I : I2"0 I : 14-7 Thus, it appears that fish have proportionally least blood; amphibia less than birds; and birds less than the mammalia. Young have proportionally more blood than old animals. The female/ too, he found, has less blood than the male of the same species. Brown-Seqtjard says that the only difference between arterial and venous blood is in its containing more oxygen and less carbonic acid. The proof of this is, he says, that when venous is well shaken with air, and becomes red, it can, when injected into the vessels, equally well with arterial blood, restore to muscles their irritability, after they have been in the condition of rigor mortis. In a similar manner the sensibility of the nervous system can be restored. BrowTi-Sequard gives it as a general rule, that the irrita- bility and sensibility of the tissues can be restored by the injection of blood longer after death, in large than in small animals. In the guinea-pig until the eighth, in the sheep until the tenth and a quarter, and in man until the twenty-seventh hour. When defibri- nized blood is injected into the artery of an amputated limb, it is on its return by the vein found to contain fibrin. When the muscles are galvanized during the injection, the fibrin increases m quantity. Moreover, he thinks that the fibrin formed by the muscles is decomposed by the liver and kidneys. . , . . . , When a quantity of the oval-corpuscled-blood of a bird is injected into the circulation of a dog, cat, or rabbit, it is found that in the course of an hour aU the oval blood-cells disappear; whereas, if the examination be made only a quarter of an hour after the injec- tion they are to be found in all parts of the circulation. On the other hand, if the small round blood-corpuscles of one of the mammaUa (dog, cat) be injected into the circulation of a hen, the