182 REPORT ON PRACTICAL MEDICINE. Maxtin.—On Heat-Apoplexy, Coup de Soleil, or Sun-fever. 11)., Jan. ist, 8lli, ami istli, 1859. Hillairet.—Ilcmorrhagie Ceiebelleuse. [On Haemorrhage into the Cerebellum.] Anuuuirc de Med. et Chir. pratiq., par Jamain, 1859, PP- 39~(>3- BiiADY states liis experience of glouoiue as coiiiinriatory of ^Ir. l^ielcVs; sickuess, faiiituess, and unconsciousness, being produced Ijy an over-dose ; neuralgic pain being speedily and sometimes perma- nently relieved by a smaller. One minim of Morton's solution is a sufficient dose. In speaking of the diagnosis of hysterical puerperal convulsions from epileptic, Kidd says, that he observed in two cases tlic symptoms to be quite the same as in epileptic attacks, excepting that consciousness was retained, and therefore agrees with Dr. Todd as to loss of consciousness being pathognomonic of epilepsy. Handfield Jones publishes a paper on inhibitory influence, iu which the view is maintained that sensory or afferent nerves being affected by some injuiious, abnormal impression, induce a paralytic state of the nervous centre with wliich they are connected, and that in tliis way musculo-motor nerves, vaso-motor nerves, or nerves of special sensation, or common, may suffer paralysis more or less com- plete. This view is a modification of the one previously adopted by Mr. Lister. A case which came under the care of Parkes affords a good instance of the important truth, that the most marked and severe cerebral symptoms, proving ultimately fatal, may occur without any anatomical change discoverable on the most careful inspection. Camps, in liis remarks on hysteria, says that he regards it as a connecting link between bodily and mental disease. He considers the functional activity of the brain and spinal cord to be perverted, and rather from some morbid state of the blood than from organic change of the nervous tissue. Bmitaj^ records a most interesting case of entozoon in the brani. The creatiu-e had the head of a Tania sol'mm, and a long, segmented neck; it was enclosed in a cyst lodged in the fourth ventricle. The symptoms were, pain in the head, irritation of the stomach, and frequent vomiting, prostration, loss of appetite, and some febrile excitement. At a later period she was unable to Hft her head from the piUow, from the dead, dull, heavy pain, and sensation of ^^'eigl't^ nor could she move it, on account of excessive pain and stiffness of neck. On two occasions she had vomited much blood. She die I