230 REPORT ON PRACTICAL MEDICINE. pain and dyspncxja are diminished, the pulse becomes less rapid, and the high temperature falls, often as much as a degree. The improvement is often surjn'ising, and generally is permanent through out the illness, so that the attendants, who may at first object to the somewhat troublesome mode of treatment, gladly persevere in its application. In very few cases does the use of cold cpithems fail in giving relief. The experience of the French surgeons at Cayenne has proved the possibility of diplitherous larvfe being developed in the nasal fossae and frontal sinuses of human beings. From one of the larvae a perfect insect has been obtained, to which the name Lucilia homini vorax has been given. The symptoms are itching in the nasal fossae, intense supra-orbital headache, oedema of the nose, extending to the face, abundant epistaxis, indications of intense inflammatory action, which may extend to the membranes of the brain and occasion death. In favorable cases a cm-e may be effected; but loss of substance, more or less extensive, and consequent deformity in the nose and its neighbourhood, may always be looked for." Injections of liquid which may destroy the larv^, as chlorine water, solution of corrosive sublimate, constitute the best treatment. Missoux considers sulphate of copper of peculiar efRcacy m the treatment of croup, not only on account of its emetic action winch is attended with less prostration than that of antimony, but because it possesses the property of so modifyhig the secreting sui-faces, that after the false membranes are detached they cease to be re-formed, "or if they are formed, they no longer possess the plasticity whicli renders them so adherent to adjoining parts." Tliis topical action may be observed in cutaneous diphtheria, and in that of the vulva and nose. To young children he administers one eighth of a gram iu a teaspoonful of water every ten minutes, until vomiting is pro- duced. To adults he gives half a grain in the same way. Out ot thirty diphtheritic cases, Missoux only lost two. . MooEE records a caseof pleuritis and empyema occui-ringm a female cliild tct. 8, in which the eflused fluid appeared to be removed by a v'ry profusi fetid expectoration. The left side of the chest gave on auscultation, a muco-crepitating rale down to the mannnar^ egion in front; and the mid-scapular belihnl; below these p^m nothing but indistinct tubular respiration could be hea d. Ther was bvd^Bg of the side and some displacement of the heart In Z course of recovery the muco-crepitatins r.Me pervaded the lower