REPORT ON SURGERY. 31G Adams's patient was a boy, set. 14. Reduction was difficult, but firm uuiou Mas obtained. Co STES lias made a coUectioji of recorded cases of emphyse- matous tumours on the skidl, with remarks. These rare tumours occur in the temporal region and are due to erosion of the outer table of the mastoid process, which permits the escape of air fi-oin the mastoid cells and from the tympanum. The characteristic signs are crepitation and tympanic resonance, and the tumour disappears when compressed. The surface of the subjacent bone becomes irregular. Lunn's patient, a boy, set. 10, fell down the hold of a vessel and fi-actured his skull. Symptoms of cerebral irritation having set in, a portion of bone was removed with Hey's saw. Hernia cerebri followed, and after death. About four ounces of pus were found under the dura mater. Curling's patient had a fracture in the right frontal region, lozenge-shaped, about three quarters of an inch broad. It was caused by the kick of a horse. The patient, an ostler, set. 40. The trephine was applied the following day, and the depressed bone was raised. No symptoms of compression had occurred; convulsions and death on the seventeenth day. Nearly the Avliole left side of the belly was found filled with blood, which had been poured out from a rupture of the left renal vein, near its union with the lower cava. MuuNEy's series comprises tlu-ee cases of fracture of the base of the skuU and one of fracture of the parietal bone. In two the middle meningeal artery was torn; and in two rupture of the kidney happened, one of which recovered. KiRKET removed several large portions of bone and other smaller pieces exfoliated. The patient left the hospital in six months with the wound quite healed. The 'Medical Times and Gazette' report contains a summary of the cases wliich have been recorded during the last six years. NussBAUM describes an abscess in the lower jaw resembling a cystic growth. He removed a portion of the bony wall with a cliisel and forceps, and effected a cure. Coote's patient was a wax dipper, set. 39, and the duration of the disease was thirteen months. The lower jaw was denuded of periosteum, quite black, and slightly moveable; it was sawn