NERVOUS SYSTKM. 49 through the cord. 2d. The results of his experiments do not prove that there is any crossing of the sensory fibres in the cord, neither do they absolutely negative that opinion. 3d. In the spinal cords of birds and frogs he could not find any vaso-motory fibres. Vtjlpian disagrees with SchifP and Bezold, and adopts Brown- Sequard's views regarding the crossing of the sensory fibres in the cord. Jeittleu's paper is written with the view of showing the part Prochaska took in the discovery of reflex action. Brown-Sequard denies the existence of Flourens' so-caUed "vital point." He says, that when animals die suddenly after injury to the " vital point," it is on account of the action of the heart being arrested, in consequence of injury to the neighbouring parts of the cord. It does not occur when the vital point is excised. The arrest of the respiration he accounts for in a similar manner. Plotjrens replies to this, and cites experiments to prove that a vital point does exist. Eenzi thinks that the irregular movements which foUow upon extirpation of the cerebellum arise from disordered hearing and sight, as in ordinary vertigo. Lussana's paper is on the cause of vertigo. He cites several experiments that he made on the effects of extirpation of different portions of the brain. BuLATOwicz found that galvanism applied to the cardiac portion of the mucous coat of the stomach induces vomiting in the course of a few seconds, while its application to the fundus and pylorus only produces pain. If the animal be rendered insensible by the injection of opium into the jugular vein, vomiting cannot be induced. Section of both vagi is followed by a similar result. After finding that two and a half grains of tartar emetic mtroduced into a vein caused immediate and violent vomiting, he divided the vagi in another dog, and then made a similar injection. This time, however, neither vomiting nor efforts at vomiting were observed. He also noticed that section of both vagi is foUowed by paralysis of the lower part of the oesophagus, so that during the act of respiration food is frequently forced back tlirough the cardiac orifice of the stomach. Lastly, he found that the stomach, durmg the efforts at vomiting, becomes passivelv fiUed with air. LowiNsoHN, under Bidder and Kupffer, tested the effects of section of the vagi on the respiration. He says that the quantity of carbomc acid exhaled after the nerves are divided, at first 4