SOMATIC INJURIES AND MANSLAUGHTER. 431 CouLiEK believes that tlie colourless blood-corpuscles cau be easily discovered iu blood-stains, and that they are important diag- nostic elements of blood. Choulette and MuscuLirs arrive at the following conclusions. Blood-stai]is, even very old ones, if they have never been washed, always leave a sufficient amount of soluble matters to give charac- teristic chemical reactions. But when washed, their analysis by ordinary means is impossible. Water containing one tenth of car- bonate of potash makes all blood-stains disappear, fresh or old, washed or unwashed, and precludes all further analysis. Hypo- chlorous acid acting upon blood-stains for two or tliree minutes gives them a brown colour, which is very decided upon linen, for example : continued action of the acid, however, destroys all colour and evidence of blood. EoBiN states that menstrual differs from other blood, by the ad- inixtui-e of epithelial cells and mucus-globules, which are discover- able under the microscope. Dannenbeeg states that solutions of spermatic stains do not coagdate on boihng. He has observed the crystals, described by liheinsch as forming on a microscopic slide when the fluid is allowed to evaporate. Some appear to be chloride of sodium : two other modifications, square plates and radiating needles, he could not identify. Lassaig>^e has enumerated a series of chemical reactions which serve to distinguish seminal from other albuminous stains. In a case of murder, Kobin ascertained the existence of some adipose tissue in blood, and established its diagnosis from the fat of sheep or cows. Gaultieb de Claubky describes the appearance of guns, after discharge, when they have been loaded with gun-cotton, or with a powder prepared from sugar, clilorate of potash, and ferro cyanide of potassium. In the case of Buscii, a midwife and an accoucheiu- were accused of malpraxis. The membranes had been ruptured too early, and tlie forceps used before sufficient dilatation, and without effect.' No subsequent assistance was afforded, and the woman was left to die of hemorrhage, without being delivered.