199 NERVOUS SYSTEM. tnil organs of the nervous system, or tlicir envelopes, arc in any degree aftected with strumous inflammation (tubercular cerebritis, or meningitis) or its consequences, after moderate purging, and per- haps application of leeches to the head, I am in the habit of pre- scribmg the iodide, in doses of from half a grain to three grains, every thi-ee or foiu- hoiu-s, generally dissolved in some carminative water, and continuing it in doses varied according to the symptoms for many days, or even until convalescence is fully established; and I am quite satisfied that mider this treatment, with the occasional adthtion of bhsters to the shaven scalp, I have seen far more prompt and decided effect produced upon the disease than I used to see under the old treatment." In the case, however, of robust and full- blooded cMdreu, he has no doubt of the superior efficacy of the mercurial treatment, combmed with antimonials and salines. EussELL Eey^s-olds reports a case of paralysis agitans removed by the continuous galvanic cm-rent from an 120-link Pulvermacher's cham. ^ The disorder affected the whole of the right upper limb, wluch in the situation of the biceps was foiu- degrees hotter than the other. The sensibility was unaffected. After five applications, of an hour each, the spontaneous jactitation completely ceased. Por another month the ciu-rent was passed every other day, the arm gamed strength, and only some slight tremor was present when any weight was raised in the hand towards the mouth, m medicine was given till after this date. The disorder came on with vertigo and gene- ral disturbance about fifteen days before treatment was commenced. DuBRAKT records four cases of partial paralysis, affecting the face U), tongue, and tliree fingers of left hand. Ammonia was prescribed 111 all the cases, with one sixteenth of a grain of bicliloride of mer- cury, at night, in the first tlu-ee. He is inclined to regard the para- ly=sis as dependent upon some exudative deposit or tliickenino- in the course of the nerve. _ In the treatment of chorea, Aran considers that arsenic should be given at first m doses of one thii-tieth to one twentieth of a grain to children seven years old, and that the amount should be rapidly in- creased, so as to reach in three or foiu- days one sixth to a quarter of a grain. -Tins rapid mode of administration is better than the J^StlTl lTr '\TV''''' ^^'^-^^^^the economy habituates itselt to the latter, and the tlierapeutical effects may be lost • and this the saturation of the economy, and consequently to tntolerance."