ON THE ORGANS OF SENSE. 59 Fechner.—Beobachtungen, welche zu beweisen scheinen, dass durcb die Uebung der Glieder der einen Seite, die der andern zugleich mitgeiibt warden. [On the Effect of Practice in Perfecting the Sense of Touch in the opposite Limb.] Berichte iiber die VerhandL der k. sachsiscben Gesellschaft der Wissenscbafteii zu Leipzig, vol. i, 1858, pp. 70—76. Leipzig, 1858. Volkmann.—Ueber den Einfluss der Uebung auf das Erkennen der raumlichen Distanzen. [On the Effect of Practice in Recognising the Distance between Two Points placed on the Limb at the same moment.] The same, pp. 38—69. Bnsch.—Ueber Innervation in transplantirten Hautlappen. [On the Loss of Sensibility in Transplanted Skin.] Verhandl. d. natur-histor. Vereins d.Rhein- lande, vol. xiv, 1857, p. 94. (No abstract.) Wundt.—Beitrage zur Theorie der Sinneswahrnehmung. [On the Tactile Recog- nition of Distance.] Erste Abhandlung. Ueber den Gefiihlssinn mit besonderer Riicksicht auf dessen raiimliche Wahrnehmungen. Henle und Pfeuffer's Zeitschrift fiir rationelle Medicin, vol. iv, 1858, pp. 229—293. Canst., vol. i, p. 102. Kammler,—Experimenta de variarnm cutis regionura minima pondera sentiendi virtute. [On the Power possessed by different Parts of the Skin in Detecting Slight Weights.] 8vo. Vratislavias, 1858. lb., vol. i, p. 102. Zantedeschi.—De la mesure de la limite de sensibilite neuro-musculaire de rhomme etudie comparativement a sa force mechanique. [On Neuro-muscular Sensibility.] Compt. Rend., vol. xlvii, 1858, No. 3, July, pp. 117, 118. (No abstract.) Brown-Sequard,—Sur la sensibilite tactile et sur un moyen de la mesurer dans I'aneslhesie et I'hyperesthesie. Journ. de Physiolog., vol. i, 1858, pp. 344 346. (Repetition of a former communication on the means of measuring tactile sensibility.—Valentin.) Ogle reviews the observations made with regard to the power possessed by different parts of the skin, in a physiological condition, of detecting (so to say) the double impression made on its surface when two points are made to touch it within a given distance of each other. It was shown by E. H. Weber, in 1834, that different parts of the skin were imequally endowed with this faculty, one wliich Ogle terms "contactile discrimination." And the subject has since been further investigated by Valentin, AUen Thompson, Belfield Lefe'vre, Graves, &c. Ogle considers the observations of these writers, and after certain remarks regarding the general subject of tactile sensibility in a state of health, and its various subdivisions into the subordinate tactile senses of tempera- ture, pain, muscular action, and contactility, he proceeds to notice pathological instances, in which, owing to affections of the nervous system, of cerebral or spinal origin, modifications exist in this capacity of appreciating double impressions simultaneously made; aUuding to the application made to chnical purposes by others, such as Bro^- S^quard, Sieveking, &c., of the physiological law estabhshed by