REPORT ON TIIH INSTITUTES 01' MEDICINE. 93 Brown-Sdquarcl's idea, do not require supra-renal capsules. An explanation since shown to be quite untenable, as Pbilipeaux and Harley M ere equally successful in their experiments .on coloured animals. VuLPiAN again calls attention to the peculiar red colouring matter of the medullary substance of the supra-renal capsules. He has not yet been able to isolate it; but he finds that it is not con- tained in the cells (Virchow), but in the blood. It is soluble in alcohol. The colom- is not so marked in man as in sheep, oxen, &c. In diseased capsules it is occasionally entirely absent, and in those of the fostus it is very slight. In his other paper Ytjlpian confirms the statement of previous writers concerning the presence of fat-granules in healthy supra- renal capsules. Zellweger analysed chemically the supra-renal capsules, and found that in the new-born cliild they contain in loo parts—77*4 water, 22'8 organic matter, and 0*4 ashes. The ox's, on the other hand, contains in 100 parts—72*1, 25'6, and 2-3; the pig's— 72*2, 257, and VI. The ashes consist chiefly of phosphates. PoMERis revives the opinion that the thyroid gland is a diverti- culum for the excess of the cerebral supply of blood. This, he says, is particularly the case during sleep, at wliich time the gland becomes so distended with blood that it increases considerably the circumference of the neck. According to Eriedleben the thymus increases in size up to the time of puberty; although after birth up to that time its size to that of the body is relatively less. From puberty to manliood it is stationary; and after this it begins to disappear. Friedleben says the same tiling occurs in the lower animals. Like Bischoff", Tried- leben observed it to be occasionally absent in well-developed cliildren. The juice of the thymus, Friedleben says, has always an acid reaction — which disappears when the gland begins to putrefy—and the ashes left after incineration are only in part soluble in water. They consist of chlorides, phosphates, and sul- phates of soda, potash, Hme, and magnesia. The organic matter is albumen, gluten, sugar, fat, colouring matter, and lactic acid. The quantity of ash is greater in the calf than in the ox; the thymus of a calf, ten days old, contains 10-226 per cent, of inorganic matter; whereas that of an ox, eighteen months old, has only 3-317 per cent. The quantity of water is also greater in the thymus of the calf. A