REPORT ON THE INSTITUTES OF MEDICINE. conditions are alike only on the opposite sides of one axis, while they are unlike in all other directions, as in the majority of leaves, m many flowers, and throughout the Vertehrata, there we have symmetry of one dimension, bilateral or linear symmetry. 4. That where the conditions, widely uidike in all other directions, are only partially alike on the opposite sides of one axis, as in the sole, &c., there we have unsymmetrical bUateralness. And, 5. That where the conditions are indeterminate, as with the Amoeba, or have no simi- lai-ity in any direction, as with the viscera of the higher animals, then the structure is asymmetrical. DoBELL thinks that we may accept of the following propositions, all other conditions being the same. i. The ova of insects are not directly influenced in their development by white light, by the different coloured rays, or by darkness, a. The larva of insects are not directly influenced iu their development, growth, nutrition, or metamorphoses, by wliite light, by the different coloured rays, or by darkness. 3. The larvae of Batrachian reptiles are, in a similar manner, influenced by the same causes. 4. The materials necessary to the colour of insects and reptiles are equally well prepared under the different kinds of light or in dai-kness. DoBELL says that, speaking generally, it must be admitted that light is essential to the development, growth, and nutrition of ani- mals, but only indirectly. In his experiments, the usual coincidents of hght, a proper supply of food, a due aeration of the respiratory medium, a properly regulated external temperature, &c., having been provided, the direct influence of light only being changed, no corre- sponding change occurred in the animal Ufe. Beclaed relates researches made upon the development of the fly {Musca carnaria), by means of coloured glass. The animals were most rapidly developed under blue and violet, least under green, light. The order of development was, i, under violet; 2, blue; 3, red; 4, yellow; 5, wliite; and lastly, green. The quantity of carbonic acid exhaled by birds and mice \mder coloured glass does not vary; whereas with frogs it is very difi'erent—they give out one quarter, one tliird, or even one half more COg under green than under red light. Davy says, that the structui-e of the egg suggested to liim the idea of its exerting electrical action, which was confirmed on trial. Using a delicate galvanometer and a suitable apparatus, on plunging one wire into the wliite, and the other insulated, except at the point