7i REPORT ON THE INSTITUTES OP MEDICINE. From the results given in this and other tables, Lehmann con- cludes—I. Tiiat calves often receive too small quantities of lime and phosphoric acid; while they, at the same time, receive an excess of magnesia, a. That hay is the food which furnishes to the calf the greatest amount of material for the growth of the bones. 3. That the mineral substances required for the growth of bone (lime, magnesia, and phosphoric acid), when given in the form of powder, are digestible. ('Canst. J.,' p. 158.) ABSORPTION. Waller.—Experiments 011 some of the various circumstances influencing Cutaneous Absorption. (Proceedings of Royal Society, No. 36, p. 122.) Funke.—Ueber das endosmotiscbe Verbalten der Peptone. [On the Endosmotic Equivalent of Peptone.] (Virchow's Archiv, vol. xiii, pp. 449—462.) Canstatt, vol. i, p. 43, and following, jj-^^-^ig —Physiologie der Endosmose. [Physiology of Endosmose.] (Froriep's neue Notizen, vol. iii, 1858, Nos. i and 2. This paper is an extract of the chapter on Endosmose in his Text-book.) Haidenhain.—Die Absorptionswege des Fettes. [On the Absorption of Fat.] (Moleschott's Unters., vol. iv, p. 251.) Eeclam.—Experimental-Untersuchungen ueber die Ursache der Chylus und Lymph- bewegung und der Fettresorption. [An Experimental Inquiry into the Origin of Lacteal and Lymphatic Circulation.] 4to. Leipzig and Heidelberg, 1858. Basslinger.—Ueljer die Chylusgefiisse der Vogel. [On the Lacieals of Birds.] (Zeitschr. f. Wissenschaft. Zoologie, vol. ix, pp. 301—303.) Kohler.—Ueber den Unterschied inder aufsaugung zwischen hungernden und gefiitterten Thieren. [On the Relative Rapidity of Absorption in Animals Fast- ing and Digesting.] 8vo. Marburg, 1858. Meder.-Aorta abdonunali subligata, vasa lymphaticse non resorbere experimentis demonslratur. [Experiments on Absorption by the Lacteals.] 8vo. Gryphics, 1858. , . , Schwanda—Ueber die quantitat derinbestimmten Zeiten und unter verschiedenen Umstanden abgesonderten Lymphe. [On the Quantity of Chyle formed in a given time.] (Wiener Med. Wochenschr., 1858, pp. 236—249.) Kohnhorn.—De Cataracta aquK inapia effecta. [On the Artificial Production of Cataract.] Gryphiae, 1858. "Waller says that one of the sunplest modes of demonstrating the existence of cutaneous absorption is by unmersing the leg of a young guinea-pig in a mixture of equal parts of chloroform and tincture of aconite. In fifteen minutes the part will be found insensible, and, after a short time, symptoms of poisoning supervene —even death. The influence of age, or of thickening of the cuticle, can be demonstrated in the same way; if an adult animal be