75 ABSORPTION. employed, no poisoning, but only local insensibility and slight disturbance of the respiration, &c., supervene. If the cliloroform be omitted (under the same circumstances as first related), neither local insensibility, death, nor, indeed, any symptoms of poisoning, are observed. Section of the sciatic nerve in the adult animal increases to such an extent the power of cutaneous absorption in the paralysed limb, that the animal is even poisoned by immersion of the lamed extremity in simple tincture of aconite. Waller tliinks this arises jfrom the paralysis of the blood-vessels, allowing the blood to flow faster witliin them. The foot, after division of the nerve, is, on this account, both hot and red. Ligaturing the limb, although it impedes the power of absorption, is less efficient than might be anticipated. On substituting atropine for aconite, and an albino rat for a guinea-pig, he was able to measure the absorption more readily. A solution of atropine in chloroform (half a grain to a drachm) dilates the pupil after the foot has been immersed in it from two to five minutes. Immersion of one limb dilates both pupils equally. The local effects of the immersion are—heat, redness, and swelling of the foot, accompanied sometimes with extravasation of blood from some of the smaUer vessels. The part is less sen- \ sible; but in no case insensible. When a solution of atropine in t turpentme is employed, the pupil scarcely, if at aU, dilates during the immersion J but immediately after the removal of the limb the dilatation commences. After two or three minutes' immersion the animal shows signs of pain, and much inflammation of the part I follows the employment of this solution. Atropine and alcohol.—Dilatation of the pupil can only be obtained m this case after from twenty to thirty minutes Atropine in water, with the addition of sufficient acetic' acid for its solu ion -Dilatation only occurs in tliis case after thirty minutes. Waller found that contrary to what might have been expected, the pupds dilate when the foot of the rat is kept five minutes ii^ ■ a sok ion o half a gram of the acetate of morphia, twenty drops of > alcohol, and one draclim of cliloroform. With a solution of I strychnine and chloroform, the pupils dilate after three minutes' immersion; after five, spasms come on; and in two minutes a ter the removal of the foot from the mixture death ensues. In strvch : 'Z;!:^^ — thirty-five^m^^t