145 DISEASES AFFECTING THE GENERAL SYSTEM. viates the gastric and intestinal disturbance they are apt to pro- duce. Dental neuralgia is instantaneously relieved by cotton soaked in the following liquid placed in the meatus of the ear of the affected side : Morphite Acet., gr. iss; Acid. Acet., niij; Eau. de Cologne, 3ij. M. Barclay treats the moot question of the day, as to the value of bloodletting in acute diseases. He recognises plaiidy a varying degree of power in the human body, whether to repel and resist or to bear up under disease, and seems to admit the truth of the view that disease is now more of an asthenic character ilian in some former times it has been. He considers the phenomena of disease under two large groups—one formed by the action of the morbid influence on the body, the shock, or the force of the impres- sion ; the other the reactional, or such as belong to the process of repair, taken in the widest sense. Yenesection can render no ser^ace to diminish the injurious effect of the shock; it may be of great value to lessen the reaction, if excessive. It does not influence the course of the inflammation as a local disorder, but only the excess of the reparatory process in the accompanying fever. Vene- section is also serviceable in relieving pulmonary and cardiac con- gestion and in relie\ang pain. The M'hole paper is well Avorth perusal. Henry Kennedy writes on the change of type theory of disease. He argues decidedly in favour of the view in opposi- tion to Benne-H', considering seriatim the propositions main- tained by the latter. He states it as a patent fact, that both animal and vegetable life is subject at times to epidemic influences, which at one period raise, and at another depress, the standard of health. These determine the so-called constitutio anni. Tliese were carefully noted by the older writers, and their practice shaped accordingly. It is denied that inflammation is necessarily tiie same at all periods; the process, abstractedly considered in itself, may be so, but its results vary exceedingly with the state of the system in which it takes place. Instances are cited in which bleeding is both useful and necessary. As regards the influence of treatment over inflammation. Dr. Kennedy assigns to it a much higher position tlian Dr. Bennett does; he is convinced that diseases are often terminated by judicious remedial measures whicli pre- viously had wholly resisted the vis meclicairix natiirce. H(! also strongly insists on the need for a discriminating therapcutism, 10