PATHOLOGY Or PREGNANCY AND PARTURITION. 347 after. The rupture was found to have occurred on the right side of the cervix; old adhesions existed posteriorly. Meacham''s patientj a primipara, experienced severe rigor and prostratiouj and died in a few hours after delivery of foetus and pla- centa. The uteruSj posteriorly and above the cervix^ was very soft and diffluent over a space two inches square^ and there was a perfo- ration at this spot. Hicks relates one case in wliich the cervix uteri was ruptured dmnng parturition; a second, in which the rent affected the body of the uterus, and blood escaped into the peritoneum; and a third, in which the child escaped th)-ough the opening into the peritoneal cavity. All the patients died. The frequency of this accident isj. he believes, for undoubted cases, i in 5345; and including uncer- tain cases, I in 3563. Atkins records an instance of rupture of the uterus after laboui" had lasted four hours, and death in fifty-two hours. The head was "jammed" between the sacrum and pubis; the child, secundines, and much blood, had escaped into the abdomen through a rupture posteriorly. There was no external haemorrhage, vomiting, col- lapse, or recession of head. In Todd\s case the liquor amnii had been discharged when the rupture (at the fundus) occurred; it was the tenth pregnancy. Death followed. Eoss records a case of rupture of the cervix uteri dui-ing labour. The patient did well. In Aveling's case, the ams presented, one foot was brought down, but further attempts at delivery failed, and the patient died. The right lower extremity was found protruding through a rent in the anterior and upper part of the body of the uterus, and formed an impediment to delivery. In Pagenstecheu's case of osteo-malacliial deformity of the pelvis, labour suddenly ceased, after lasting all day. The fcetus had escaped through a rupture of the right side of the uterus, Waedlewouth describes a case of complete inversion of the uterus, the placenta remaining attached. The cord was unusually short. The placenta was removed, and the uterus reduced. Sub- sequently a partial inversion occurred, which was reduced. In the treatment of post-partum hjemorrhage, Lyall disapproves of the removal of clots from the interior of the uterus by the hand. It is better, lie contends, to leave them alone, they being