OBSTETRICAL OPERATIONS. 361 He contends that up to the present time the measures which are the alternatives of craniotomy have never been carried out in prac- tice to their full and legitimate extent. Turniug, the use of the forceps, the induction of premature labour, &c., are measm'es which miglit be adopted very much more extensively than they have been, and the necessity for craniotomy in the case of a viable foetus thus altogether obviated. Geeenhalgh contends that there is little, if any, difference in the mortaHty to the m'others from craniotomy in great distortion of the pelvis, and the Csesarean section, when performed shortly after the commencement of labour; whereas there is a great saving of foetal life in the latter case. Beaux details the new methods of performing craniotomy. He speaks most favorably of Kiwisch's method, by means of a straight trepan, followed by the use of the cephalotribe. Simpson introduces a new variety of craniotomy, under the name cranioclasm. The peculiarity of the operation is the fracturing of the base of the foetal skull beliind the foramen magnum and at other points. After perforating the skull in the usual manner, a pair of forceps is applied, one blade within, the other outside, the skull, so as to grasp the occipital bone close up to the foramen magnum, when, by a slight twisting movement, the fracture is effected and the head diminished at its fii'mest and most unjdelding part. Druitt relates a case in which, after the operation of tui-ning, the head could not be extracted, and craniotomy was had recourse to. The head was extremely hard. Levy proposes a new operation in certain cases of arm presen- tation, where turning cannot be effected, and evisceration, &c., are usually contemplated. The operation consists in the separation of the scapula and arm, as a substitute for the expedients usually had recourse to. After the separation in question has been effected, turn- ing can be easily performed. The method has been found by expe- rience to be practicable and useful. Beckeu relates tlu:ee cases in which cephalotripsy had been per- formed. He rejects the instrument of Baudelocque, and prefers that of Busch. The result, so far as the mother was concerned, was favorable in the three cases. Schultze considers that a conjugate diameter of is not an absolute contra-indication to the use of the cephalotribe. In one case the conjugate diameter was 2" 3"',