130 llEPORT ON PRACTICAL MEDICINE. trical. True stasis was produced, not mere stillstand of the current. Samuel concludes that nerves originate from this centre wliich re- • gulate the nutrition of the posterior limb. Viuciiow describes a specimen of inflamed cornea, and one of inflamed endocardium of the chordse tendineaj, as illustrating his views of parenchymatous inflammation. The lamellse in the former were unaffected, the corpuscles were enlarged to from ten to twenty times, and rendered opaque by a fatty, albuminous, granular mass. In the latter the inflammatory alterations did not appear in the vicinity of the vessels, but rather at the most remote parts, where the tendinous cord is most exposed to tension, at the point of bifurcation. Ranzi, (late) of Florence, denies that the capillaries have any power except that of elasticity. Active hypersemia he ascribes to the greater activity Avith which the tissues exert their function. Inflammation he refers, and did as long ago as 1844, to secret disturbances of the interchange taking place in the process of nutrition between the blood and the tissues. He thinks that no explanation can be found in the derangements of the circulation of the phenomena of inflammation. Neither does he consider inflam- mation as an increase of organic activity and nutrition, but rather as characterised by the reverse. In a paper on the early stages of inflammation, Listeu shows that irritation of a certain part of the spinal cord of the frog produces constantly contraction of the arteries of the web, and that destruc- tion of the same is followed by permanent dilatation. Neither state, however, causes any arrest of the blood-current, or alteration in the quality of the blood. Erom the circumstance that the same changes are produced in successive portions of blood passing through the vessels of a spot wliich has been subjected to mild irritation, viz., increased tendency of the red and white corpuscles to adhere together and to the walls of the vessels. Lister concludes that the irritated tissue is the original seat of the inflammation, and that the altera- tions in the blood are secondary. He observes, further, that the red and wliite corpuscles are never more inclined to adhere than they are in healthy, fresh-drawn blood, and concludes that the tissues of a healthy part exert an influence on the blood whereby the red and white corpuscles are kept free from tendency to adhere, while in inflamed parts thi's influence is more or less lost. Lister believes the inflamed parts to be in a state of diminished functional activity, from tlie relaxation of the arterial coats and the diffusion of the