REPORT ON THE INSTITUTES OF MliDICINE. Huxley says, that in it, "Cuvier's palatine is the homologue of the palatine of the abranchiate vertehrala, and his pterygoid is the homologue of their pterygoid, and that his jugal is their quad- ratiim or incus." Huxley cannot, however, find any liomologue of the temporal and symplectic. They appear to be specially piscine elements, only traceable as far as the amphibia, where they are represented by that part of the suspensorial cartilage, to which the hyoid arch is attached, and by the " temporal" of Cuvier. In the abranchiate vertebrata, if the hyoid is connected with the skull, its insertion is quite distinct from that of the mandibular arch. Huxley believes, therefore, that the braucliiate vertebrata, the oviparous abranchiate vertebrata, and the mammalia, present a series of well-marked gradations in the mode in which the ramus of the mandible is attached to the skull. In the fish it is separated by the OS articulare, the quadi-atum, and the temporo-symplectic. In the amphibia the latter becomes less distinct. In the abranchiate ovipara it disappears; and finally, in the mammalia, the ramus comes into direct contact with the squamosal element of the skull. Eainey studied the mode of formation of bone, of shells, of starch.-corpuscles, and several other organic structures. He has, in the fijst place, pointed out a process by which carbonate of lime can be made to assume a globular form, and says that it is produced by "molecular coalescence." In the second place, he gives an explanation of the probable cause of crys- tallization. Tliirdly, lie has discovered a process of "molecular disintegration" of the globules of carbonate of lime;—by in- verting the mechanical conditions upon which their pre\'ious globular form had depended. And lastly, he deduces from his observations, that tbe rounded forms of organized bodies do not depend upon vital causes, but on purely physical agencies, Webb, in his examination of a loose cartilage; found on the surface a condensed layer of fibrous tissue; further in, there was an arrange- ment of cells in a matrix, somewhat resembling what is seen in ossifying cartilage. Some of the cells contained opaque granular matter, and were so attached together by their margins as to give the appearance of short tubules. In the centre was a quantity of cretaceous matter, soluble in hydrochloric acid. It has been generally supposed that articular cartilage receives its nutriment from the vessels of the synovial membrane; but Barwell thinks—1. That although in the articular cartilage itself there are