REPORT ON THE INSTITUTES OF MEDICINE. 12 KoLLiKEu's Avork on the microscopic anatomy of tlie tissues em- braces a wide range of subjects, and the literature of ahnost every one of them is extended by the author's own researches. There being an English translation of the first edition of this work, for further information, we must refer our readers to it. ViiiCHow expounds a new theory regarding the process of inflam- mation, and the first steps in the formation of morbid gro\vths. He says that the spindle-shaped corpuscles of tendon, and of all con- nective tissue, form an anastomosing network, by means of fine tubes which proceed out of them in all directions. The first step in the inflammatory process is the enlargement of these corpuscles, together with an increase in size, and subdivision of their nuclei. The nuclei then go on enlarging and multiplying by endogenous growth, till the formation of pus is the result. Pus-cells are never, he says, formed by an aggregation of granules, as has been repre- sented as occurring in the smallpox-pustule. A cell can only be formed from a cell. In the suppuration of mucous membranes, it is the epithelium- cells that become traiisformed into pus-corpuscles. Such, for ex- ample, is the case in gonorrhoea, where we have the formation of pus without ulceration. The cyhndrical variety of epithehum is much less disposed to form pus. On accurate observation, the yellow matter which it produces is found to be only modified epi- thelium, though of a very purulent appearance. (Example, diph- theritic exudation.^) In the suppuration of muscle, the pus-ceUs form in the so-called nuclei of the sarcolema, wliich, according to Tirchow, are the nuclei of the connective-tissue-corpuscles. Eatty degeneration, he says, also commences in these corpuscles. 1 Attention-was called to this fact in the discussion which followed the reading of a paper on diphtheria at the meeting of the Royal Medical Society, 17th January, 1859. One of the speakers said that the exudation on the fauces in cases of diph- theria was composed of an excessive and modified secretion of the mucus-cells and epithelium-scales proper to the part of the throat from which it was removed. It has since been observed that a diphtheritic false membrane from the eye, although it had all the external appearance of pus, on microscopic examination proved to be entirely composed of enlarged and modified conjunctival epithelium-scales.