llErORT ON PRACTICAL MEDICINE. 190 paraplegia. She recovered under tAic use of pliospliate of iron, witli powerful counter-irritation by moxas to the spine. Shortly after, the rheumatism recurred severely, affecting all the liinbs and the pericardium. In the fall of 1858, after she had shaken off the rheumatism, the paraplegia recurred, and continues still. Sensibility is lostj as well as motor power. The author asks, can we assume any connexion between the two diseases ? " And if so, why is it that pain is so insignificant a symptom in the former, and so excruciatingly severe in the latter ? ^¥i\y is it, moreover, that the two conditions come on at different times, jaeld to different reme- dies, and disappear independently of one another ?" Briquet, after considerable experience of lead colic at "La Charite," has discarded all other theories as to the seat and produc- tion of the pain in favour of that originally promulgated by Giacomini, who affirms that the pain in lead colic "has its seat, not in the digestive tube at all, but in the muscular parietes of the abdomen and the diaphragm." His reasons for holding this opiuion are—(i) that moderate pressure, affecting only the skin and subjacent' muscles, will produce in patients suffering under this disease acute pain, identical with that of a paroxysm; (2) that acute pain can be produced in these patients by pressure over.^)arts of the abdominal muscles beneath wliich there is no intestine; (3) that the pain of colic often extends to the muscles of the back and limbs. The constipation, he thinks, has no connexion with the abdominal pain, and the nausea and vomiting he looks on as sympathetic distur- bances. The treatment he employs is cutaneousraradization to remove the abdominal pain, sulphixr baths every other day, sulphm-ic acid lemonade (Oiv dailv), 5ss—5ij of alum in solution, and gr. j of watery extract of opium each night. The pain does not disappear untd the faradization has weU reddened the skin, Avhich, Ave are warned, is often a pretty severe proceeding. In some remarks on the danger attending the use of chloroform, Mautijs- observes, that it must not be supposed that the sliock of an operation is altogether aiuudled by obtaining antcsthesia. He rather considers that this is likely to be greater wlien the powers of the great organs are depressed by tlie influence of chloroform. MvRTTX contributes some valuable experience with respect to the disease known as " coup-de-soleil." He points out, that direct expo- ^ure to the sun's rays is by no means necessary, many fatal seizures occurrin"- in one division of soldiers about 3 a.m., long before the