64' REPORT ON THE INSTITUTES OF MKDICINR. 18" I grains of carbonic acid per minute, and at three miles per hour of 25-83 grains. While the effect of the tread wheel at Coldbatli fields Prison was to increase the quantity to 48 grains per minute. MuLLEU analysed air in which rabbits and small dogs had been asphyxiated, and found that when the volume of air was exceedingly small the oxygen disappeared almost entirely from it, while the carbonic acid gas rose to from 10 to 15 per cent. If the volume of air was greater than the volume of the animal, the oxygen remaining was seldom under 5 per cent. When the experiment was so made that the animal always breathed fresh air—the expired gases being removed—it was found that fi-om 6 to 7 per cent, of oxygen in the atmosphere sufficed to support life. When the animal was put into a small volume of pure oxygen gas and allowed to die there, nearly the whole oxygen disappeared ; whereas if the volume of oxygen in which the animal was placed was considerable, it became asphyxiated when the carbonic acid gas amounted to from ,56 to 58 per cent., and the oxygen had diminished to from 20 to 36 per cent. A more complete account of Miiller's experiments is to be found in the 'Ann. d. Chem. u. Pharm.,' cviii, pp. 257—31 ^> Dec, 1858. The conclu- sion drawn from them is, that nearly the whole of the oxygen can be extracted by the living blood from the inspired air, and so quickly too that it is highly probable that it enters into direct chemical combination with the constituents of the blood, a smaU portion only remaining physicaUy absorbed. In tliis respect Miiller's results are opposed to the theory of Magnus, and confirm the experunents of Harley ^ The chief features of respiration lie, it appears, in the fact, that while the constituents of the blood go on absorbmg the oxygen, and thereby diminishing its volume (and consequent absorption-pressure) they at the same time continue to yield up a constant supply of carbonic acid, which, graduaUy surmountmg the absorbing capacity of the blood, becomes exhaled. BuiMMEYEu's experiments on hydrogen, oxygen, carbomc acid, and atmospheric air, led him to believe that gases, m pa^smg tlirough moist membranes, obey the law of absorption. WiEDEKHOLD says, that from a number of careful observations that he has made, he has come to the conclusion that the lungs, hke the skin and kidneys, excrete inorganic as well as organic sub- stances On coUectiug a large quantity of expired air, and testing 1 ' Brit, and For. Med.-Chir. Rev.,' vol. xxxvi, Oct. 1856, p. 4«.V 1