379 DISEASES OP WOMEN. In Black's case of iodine injection, the cyst was unilocular. The cure was complete. Bromt?? records five cases in which ovariotomy was performed, and in three of which a successful result was obtained. In a case of ovariotomy by Chilbs, the result was unfavorable; a part of the pedicle slipped from the clamp, and haemorrhage into the abdomen was fatal twenty-two hours after the operation. In Holt's case of ovariotomy, the patient died the following day. In Teeey^s case death took place about twenty-fouj hours after the operation. MiLLEU relates the details of two successful cases of ovariotomy. He discusses the several objections which have been made to the operation, and expresses himself as very favorably disposed towards it. He attributes very great importance to the administration of continued doses of opium, in order to keep the bowels quiet for some days after the operation. Crouch states that the results of nine cases of ovariotomy prove that each ovary is capable of producing children of both sexes. Graily Hewitt describes a new instrument for the diagnosis of suspected ovarian cysts. It resembles the uterine sound, but is much longer, and can be used to probe the interior of the cavity, the contents of which are prevented from escaping during the exa- mination by a simple contrivance. PuECH analyses tlu-ee observations of cases in which hemorrhage occurred, and is of opinion that the cases in question prove the existence of tubal haemorrhage of an independent character. Gatjchet relates three cases in which he believes peri-uterine haematocele to have been present. Pelvi-peritonitis is, according to Tilt, of very frequent occur- rence, associated in some cases with haemorrhagia, in others with ovaritis, originating in ovulation, &c. Pain is usually experienced in the iliac regions, and a tumefaction surrounding the neck of the uterus may be felt per vaginam. Eepeated attacks cause adhesion of the adjoining sui-faces of the organs affected, and leave bands of adhesion liable to cause serious accidents, such as incarceration of the intestines, flexions of the uterus, &c. Sterility is frequently caused by previous pelvi-peritonitis. Leeches, calomel, and opium are recommended. ' Trousseau considers that the retro-uterine htematocele is consti- tuted by the pouring out of blood in the space between the rectum