474 REPORT ON LEGAL MEDICINE, ETC. in floul-, and the ashes of vegetables in general. Finally, he descriljes the properties of bread, good and bad. The elasticity of bread, tlie crispness of its crust, the wluteness of. its crum, and purity of its flavour, constitute its fom- cardinal virtues. In two districts of tlie south-western part of the Ducliy of Brunswick, on the slopes of the Hartz and Lolling Mountains, an epidemic of ergotism occuiTed during the years 1854 to 1856, whicli was throughout of the convulsive type. Of the patients who came imder Griepenkeul's care, not one died; but in other districts, where the corn contauied as much as 25 per cent, of ergot, many persons succumbed to the disease. i\jnong nearly 40,000 inhabitants, there were 155 cases of ergotism, of which 25 terminated fatally. Of 155, 62 were persons below fourteen years of age, and of these 11 died; so that almost half of the fatal cases were those of children. Infants at the breast did not take the disease, although the mothers were severely affected. According to Griepenkerl, women are less predisposed to ergotism than men, wlule the reverse is stated to be the case by Niemann. According to the former, muscular exercise favours the production of ergotism. It is evident that the largest quantity of ergot of rye taken in the shortest time produces the most certain appearance of peculiar toxic sjonptoms, and is doubtful whether there is any special predisposition on the part of individuals. The paper of Ajsonymus contains impracticable propositions for making cheap bread in hard times. b. Vegetables. Chevallier and Son.—Chronological Researches on the Means for Preserving Food from the Animal and Vegetable Kingdoms. (Ann. d'Hyg., No. 17.) The authors enumerate in chronological order the means which have been adopted up to the present time for preser^g vegetable food. They next demonstrate that green vegetables can be com- pletely preserved by drying. The process, however, in order to be profitable, must be carried on on a large scale. By a 7iew extensive industry, they are of opinion aU classes of society could constantly be supplied with sound vegetables.