SUBJECTS OF GENERAL INTEREST. 271 lime and water. When freslily prepared cliloride was used, they survived. Tiie rabbit, after being inoculated with the same poison from an ox's spleen wliicli killed another, survived after it had been freely exposed to chlorine vapoui's (generated from manganese, chlo- ride of sodium and sulphuric acid) in a stable. Nevins relates several cases in illustration of the good effects that may sometimes be obtained by the employment of medicines in the state of vapoui-. Jacksox praises cold affusion as a remedy for narcotic poison- ing, and narrates tliree cases in which it was successfully em- ployed. One of these was a lady who had been poisoned by an overdose of belladonna. Case of a male, fet. 49, whose ears became, and remained, per- fectly blue, cold, and Hvid, after an attack of jaundice, of no great seventy. Except cold feet and hands, he suffers no other inconve- nience. Case of profuse, constant, serous discharge from one thio-h m a middle-aged female, of seventeen years' duration. The flmv took j)lace from a number of vesicles. Gallwey records two cases of unusual discharge of carbona- ceous matter from the nares and intestines. CooTE records a higldy interesting case, in which cancer of the stomach was associated with tubercular chsease of the luno-g The ^ver contained several cancerous masses. The extreme fuSdus and the pylorus of the stomach were the only parts unaffected : aU the rest was converted into a hard substance, three quarters of an inch m luckness, which was in a state of uniform ulceration internally. Yet, dui-ing life, to the last the man's appetite had been good • he had no pam before or after food, no vomiting or nausea^ and hi. bowels acted regularly. There was not only old, but also recent^ tubercular disease in the lungs. also recent, ScTiEoDEEVAK DEitKoLK, from the resiUts of injections, arrives .t the conclusion, that inflammation always occui-s in the arte rial"nd never in the venous system. On examining hepatic abscesses after vessels m the wall of the cavity. Sometimes the hepatic-vein- branches were filled up to the wall of the abscess, showing ZJt Z ^o portal-vem branches were ever found in the wall of the abs e ' ^^hlclL had been injected by the bronchial arteries, while at