258 REPORT ON rRACTICAL MI'DICTNK. nvinary smell was observable either in the ffcoes or perspiration, which was little, if at all, increased. Tlic secretion graduallv returned sponte sua. Byerley recommends one of our indigenous plants, the Brodiuni cicutamm, or Stork's-bill, common in sandy situations, as an effi- cient diuretic. Goodwin records the case of a male, set. 60, who died under his care with cancerous formation in the liver, kidneys, and bladder, and ^^dth suppurating tubercular deposit and small cavities in the left lung. " The urine contamed pus-globules, red and white cor- puscles of blood in large quantities, squamous epithelium, with large, granidar nuclei and nucleoli, large, round epithelium, contam- ing many resplendent granules, probably from the fundus of the bladder, and caudate and round cells, Avith resplendent granules." The disease seems to have run its course in about three months. The value of albuminuria as a symptom of kidney disease.— the result of his hospital experience, Pahkes concludes that the existence of permanent albuminuria indicated kidney disease m tlmty-two out of tliirty-six cases ; and if heart disease be excluded, it indicated kidney disease invariably. Temporary albuminuria was observed in six out of ten cases of acute pneumoma, m aU of thi-ee cases of acute morbus Brightii, in four out of nineteen cases of acute rheumatism, in one out of eight cases of subacute, m five out ot nineteen cases of typhoid fever. In a clinical lectiu-e on a case of renal dropsy, attended witli a copious, purulent deposit, not containing any tube-casts Basham concludes witb the following remarks: "We may, therefore con- sider that when the spnptoms of renal dropsy are associated with a purulent, non-tubular sediment in the urine, in proportion to he amount of that purulent sediment will be the probabihty that the interstitial structm-es of the kidney are the source of the pus; anrt that as this condition is consequent upon the destruction 0 tlie renal parenchyma, the prognosis must necessarily be unfavorable^ In a paper on paraplegia in relation to renal disease. Hinds advances the opinion that the paralysis is produced by the extension of the renal disease to the lumbar plexus. Kennedy publishes two cases of albumhiuria treated by mercury, ,vith some interesting remarks. He lays stress on the fact that un tional is frequently united to organic disease of the kidney, and Hes that he has known instances in which albumen was present