472 llEPORT ON LEGAL MEDICINE, ETC. d. Manufacture of Silk. Reybaud.—Report to the Academy of Moral and Political Sciences upon the Moral, Intellectual, and Material Condition of Workpeople who live by the I'reparation of Silk. (Ann. d'Hyg., 18, 19.) Tins interesting report is based upon original observatioris M'liicli tlie author made during a jom-ney on which he liad been sent by the academy. The journey extended over France, Ehenish Prussia, and Switzerland, the principal seats of industry in silk. e. Trades in which dust is inhaled—Coalheavers and Metal- founders. Vernois.—On the influence of various descriptions of Dust on the Health of the Artisans. (Ann. d'Hyg., No. 18.) The author arranges the various descriptions of dust under three categories, corresponding to the materials from which it is produced. We have animal, vegetable, and mineral dust, and various descriptions of mixtures, most of M'hich the author enume- rates. The author mainly confined his statistical inquiries to coalheavers, or dealers in coals, and to metal-founders, which trades were reported in Paris to predispose to tuberculosis and astlmia. He found that the inhalation of coal-dust does not in- crease the proportion of persons suffering from phthisis or emphy- sema over that existing in the ordinary population of the same rank; that phthisis, instead of being favoured, was rather arrested by coal-dust; and that the proximity of coal seemed to protect those trading in it from a variety of diseases to wliich other persons hving under similar circumstances of an unfavorable kind, e.g. in damp, ill-ventdated, and badly hghted houses, are more liable. In 1855, an examination of 96 foundries was instituted, at the request of the President of PoUce. In 67 only was there any work going on, wlule 39 were on the eve of closing their career. The number of artisans employed in the active estabhshments was 1476. Of 1089 workmen employed in 41 manufactories, only 98 were engaged in moulding, a process in which coal, or coal and clay, are employed. Prom the particulars given by Vernois, it appears that the coal-dust produced'iiv^Jie, course of moulding is not detrijnental to the health of the moulders.