337 PREGNANCY AND PARTURITION. efforts are produced, according to Krahraer, by access of cold air to the skin, or impediment to the umbilical circulation. From the fact that tlie placenta is the medium of respiration for the foetus, it is argued that respiratory movements are a constant result of impediment to the foetal placental circulation. The alterations in cases of asphyxia neonatorum are to be sepa- rated into two series: the one includes the consequences and symptoms of gaseous poisoning of the blood; the other, the effects of mechanical disturbances of the circulation. The muscular action of the uterus is the chief cause of impediment to the foetal respiration and purification of the blood. The respiration ceasing, mspu-atory efforts foUow, and these being fruitless, life becomes extmct, the meconiiun escapes, &c. The author believes that the rhonchus heard in stillborn children in process of being recovered betokens previous futile inspiratory efforts. In stillborn children, also, meconium, blood, &c., have been found in the bronchial tubes. The meconium and urine are evacuated, as a rule, in stillborn cbldren before or during birth. The absence of this phenomenon IS not conclusive as to the fact of the foetus being stiU alive: its presence indicates death or danger thereof. TREATISES, PAPERS, ETC., HAVING REFERENCE TO SPECIAL BRANCHES OF OBSTETRICS, ON PREGNANCY AND PAETUBITION. Liegard.-Prolonged gestation. Gaz. des H6p., 62, 1859. (Sch., 0 p 320 ) Case of Protracted Gestation. Boston Jour., May, p. 345, and Med. Times, 40, 263. ^ ' Hecker.-Zur Schwargerscliafts diagnostik. [On the Diagnosis of Pregnancy ] Mon.-Sch. f. Geburtsk, sii, p. 401, Dec, 1858. (Sch. 5, 188 ) ^^^r^r^^T^^""""'""'^ ^'•^'Ke5'=hw"ngerten am Ende der Schwangerschaft [The Os Uteri of Primiparae at the end of Pregnancy.] Mon -Sch f Geb xiv, 33. (Sch., II, 183.) ■ ■ Matthews Duncan.-On the Cervix Uteri in Pregnancy. Edin Med Jour March and .\pril, 1859. * " Braxton Hicks.-New Tests for the Kiesteine of Pregnancy. Lancet, ii. 281, 1059- Schniitt.-Beitrage zuv Lchre von der Entstehung und Bedeutung des Nabel- schnurgera.,sches. [On the Cause and Signification of the Funic Souffle i Scanzoni's Beurage, vol. iii, p. ,73. (Canst., vol. iv. p. 469.) 22