UliPOllT ON SUllUERV. 280 wliich was clone freely two or three times. A return of the bleeding, a quarter of an hour afterwards, was checked in the same way. The patient did well. De Lamballe reports a case of fibrous polypus, attached by a broad root to the base of the skull. He removed it by first dividing the soft palate, which was di-awn upwards with a forceps by an assistant; then seizing the polypus with Muscaux's forceps, he cut through its root with a curved bistoury, and cauterized the rest.^ The result was satisfactory. EoESER describes a tumour of fibroid structure, wliich grew from the lower part of the back of the pharynx. The patient's head was bent forwards, and any attempt to sit upright caused a paroxysm of suffocation. He seized the tumour with a vulsellum, drew it for- wards, and then forcibly wrenched it away with a lithotomy forceps. There was hardly any bleeding, and a rapid recovery ensued. Eeichsen points out eight conditions, independent of strictui-e, which may cause dysphagia by compressing the cesophagus. They are—I. Tumours of the pharynx. 2. Morbid states of the larynx, 3. Tumours in the neck. 4. Aneui-ism of the innominate artery. 5. Aortic aneurism. 6. Intra-thoracic tumom-s in the posterior mediastinum. 7. Dislocation of the sternal end of the collar-bone backwards. 8. Impaction of a foreign body in the CEsophagus. Three kinds of stricture are described: i. Hysterical or spasmodic stricture, a. Kbrous stricture. 3. Carcinomatous stricture. Addison and Torstee's patient was a cliild, four years old, who had swaUowed, nineteen weeks before his admission, a corrosive alkahne fluid, wliich caused an ahnost impermeable stricture of the oesophagus. He was apparently dying from starvation, when Forster performed gastrotomy. Prom that time he took food freely, and his sense of hunger diminished; he became more Hvely, and seemed to be doing weU. Pour days afterwards, sudden acute pain in the bowels, foUowed by death in about five hours. The contents of the stomach had escaped into the peritoneum, and caused inflammation.