193 NERVOUS SYSTEM. Oppexheimer draws attention to the cure of obstinate neuralgia of the fifth pair by previously curing existing catarrh of the nasal cavities. Baravixkel records a case of anfcsthesia dolorosa of the right fifth nerve, with paralysis of the sixth olfactory and nerv. petros. superfic. major of the same side. The symptoms had lasted six months, and were attributed to a chill, but as there was a history of constitutional syphilis eighteen years before, and some swelling as from caries of the hard palate, the diagnosis of a bony enlargement pressing on and irritating the nerves involved was made. Under lod. Pot. almost complete recovery ensued. ^ Egbert records a case of syphilitic hemiplegia affecting the right side, wliich Avas caused by Potass. lod. c. Hydr. Protiod. The right side of the face was paralysed, there was continual violent pain in the left side of the head, radiating from thence over the wliole. The organs of sense were unaffected, A well-marked case of reflex paraplegia, resulting from prolonged exposure to wet, is recorded by Moore. Strychnia was adminis- tered to produce its special effects, and recovery ensued in two days. Stone connuuuicates shortly the details of sixteen cases of chorea treated chiefly by Zinci Sulph., and compares the results with those of other cases treated by ferruginous and arsenical remedies. In most cases the cold or tepid shower bath was also used. "The general statistics are as follows : Of i5 cases treated by sulphate of zinc, 13 went out cm-ed, 3 relieved, but 3 of the latter were in a fair way of recovery, and may probably be set to the credit of the medicament. On the other hand, three of those ultimately cured owed then- improvement partly to ferruginous preparations, and in one case the zinc had no eftbct whatever. It may, then, be stated generally, that advantage was derived from the /.mc in 14 out of 16 cases. The longest stay in the hospital amono- these cases was 123 days; the shortest, 14; the average stay, 44-6 days. Pourteen cases were treated during the same period with pre parations of ii-on; all were cured. The longest stav in hospital was i6i days; the shortest, 6 days; average stay, 44-3 days. Twenty eases were treated with Liq. Potass. Arsenitis; 18 cured, i relieved • died, nie longest stay in hospital was 55 days ; the shortest, 6 • average stay, 26-3 days. Average stay in hospital of the 50 cases submitted to tliree principal remedies, 27-2 days," The ca^es put under the arsenical treatment were rather more severe tliau 13