VASCULAR SYSTEM. 3^ round cells may be detected in the blood a montli afterwards, though in greatly diminished quantity. Chevreul observed that, when the venous and arterial blood of the goat is shaken with atmospheric air, oxygen, nitrogen, or carbonic acid gas, the effect is always the same. The venous blood thus pro- duced, however, is in all cases a little browner than the arterial. He calls attention to several interesting facts regarding the relations between the blood and ozone. Schonbein says, that fresh and healthy blood-corpuscles act upon ozonized turpentine in a similar way to the salts of the oxide of iron; and that this most probably arises from the circumstance of the blood-corpuscles containing a small quantity of that metal. FixsEN recommends the old method of studying the circulation of the blood on the frog's tongue. Htrtl found by injecting the middle meningeal artery, that its perforating branches are not lost in the diploe of the skull; but that they pass through the bone, and assist in suppljdng the pericranium. Other branches perforate the sutures and supply the membranes lining the ear as well as the orbital cavity. The perforating branches going to the pericranium are not accompanied by veins. A transposition of the right subclavian to the left side, Hyrtl thinks, occurs in about two per cent., and he, along with Dr. Oehl, of Pavia, inclines to regard this transposition as the cause of left- handedness. Tliis view is combated by Thbile, who believes that there are more than two per cent, left-handed individuals, and that the transposition of the right subclavian does not occur oftener, if even so often. In the case of a supernumerary pair of ribs arising from between the sixth and seventh cervical vertebrse, Pischer found that the scalenus muscle consisted of two portions. The anterior of which arose from the trans, proc. of the fourth to the sixth cervical vertebra, the posterior from that of the sixth and the neck of the super' numerary rib. The subclavian artery passed up over the dome of the pleura, between the two portions of the muscle, and from thence over the stretched end of an abnormal intercostal muscle, belonging to the supernumerary rib. Panas found in the body of a man, £et. 33, the aorta, which rose as usual, bend over the right bronchus to the right side of the vertebral column. Prom the arch rose only two, unusually thick, branches, the right subclavian and the right common 3