PARASITES. 113 farther evidence to sliow tliat tlie local production of anJEsthesia by narcotics is not accelerated by electricityj and positively denies the existence of an iuterpolar variety. Moreover be sbows that narcotics are very rapidly absorbed by the skin when dissolved in chloroform (see chapter on "Absorption"), and attributes Dr. Eichardson's results entirely to the employment of that menstruum. Pelikaist and Savelibff made a number of experiments with a great variety of substances, such as the iodide of potassium for example, but it is quite unnecessary to cite any of them, as they all led the authors to the same conclusion, viz. that " the idea of introducing medicines into the organism by means of galvanism, arose from an imperfect understanding of the physical laws, and a mal-interpretation of experimental phenomena." Todd's instrument is so constructed that the vapour of chloro- form is freely diluted with air before entering the lungs, and that the warm expired gases are prevented from coming in contact with the narcotic. The advantage of the instrument consists in its permitting the cliloroform to be inhaled in a gradual and uniform manner. OzANAM experimented with carbonic acid on animals, and found that at first they remain still, then get uneasy, begin to breathe rapidly, and have violent palpitation of the heart. Immediately after tliis they become insensible, and faU over on the side. While in this state they show no signs of pain, even on the application of a hot iron. The pupils are moderately open. Brought into fresh air, they soon recover. Animals after a time get so inured to the action of the gas, that in order to render them insensible they require a much greater quantity. Hekpin's results are nearly similar to the above. PARASITES. Barclay (John).—The dependence of Tape-worm on the use of raw or underdone meat. Med. Times and Gaz., March 26th, 1859, P- 3°9- Peacock.—The same. lb., 28th May, 1859, P- SSo- Stone.-Fatal Case of Sarcina Ventriculi. Brit. Med. Journ., cth Feb i8?o p. 100. ■' Kolliker.—On the frequent occurrence of Vegetable Parasites in the Hard Struc- tures of Animals. Proc. Roy. Soc, No. 36, p. 95. Farre.—On Substances discharged from the Human Urinary Bladder. Archives of Medicine, No. 4, p. 290. Hogg.—On the Vegetable Parasites of the Human Skin. Lancet, sth Feb., p. 143. 8