REPORT ON PRACTICAL MEDICINE. 178 uterine or breast cancer. (2.) Cliildbearing appears as one of the predisposing causes to the formation of cancer, sterility being to a certain extent a protection against it. Among the female cancer patients, 5^5 out of 315 were single ; and among the uterine patients, taken separately, there were la single women out of 135. Of the married women 86 per cent, among the uterine patients, and 71 per cent, of those suffering from cancer in other organs, luid borne cliildren. The average number of children produced by eacli married woman was 5-3 among the uterine cases, and 3-89 among those with cancer in other situations. (3.) The duration of life was found to vary greatly, according to the seat of the disease. In the cases of cancer of the breast, those who had been ope- rated on lived 53 months, whilst those in whom the disease was allowed to take its natural course lived only 3a months. (4.) As regards the hereditary nature of the affection, it was found that cancer was traced in 81 per cent, of the cases. Tliere were five instances in whicli the patients had two cancerous relations, and in one very remarkable case five relatives were affected with cancer.' (5.) Phthisis was traced in 37 per cent, of the families of the cancer patients. (6.) In reference to secondary cancer, it was found that the disease was either local or did not extend beyond the lymphatic glands in about half the cases. There were secondary tumours in '79 per cent, of the breast cancers, in 33 per cent, of the uterine cases, and in 54 per cent, of the instances of true cancer in other oro-ans. (7.) That a great variety of diseases was found in thi bodies of those dying with cancer. Tubercle was found in 15 out of 173 examinations; it was recent in 11. (8.) That cachexia appears to be rather an effect of ulceration than the sign of a state of system preceding the evolution of cancer. NERVOUS SYSTEM. Brady.—0" ^''^ Medicinal Action of Glonoine. Med. Times and Gaz., March i2tli, i8^o- Kidd.—On the Diagnosis of Hysterical Puerperal Convulsions. Dublin IIosp. Gaz., March 15th, 1859. Handfield Jone?.—On Inhibitory Influence. British Med. Jour., Feb. fi", 1859. Parked.—Case of a Blow on the Head followed by Diplopia and Cerebral Symp- toms; Death from Coma. lb., Feb. 19th, 1859.