REPORT ON THE INSTITUTES OF MEDICINE. 78 Czermack.—Ueber die Beiliiilfe der nerven zur Speichelsekretion. [On the Iii- lluonce of tlie Nerves on liie Salivary Secretion.] (Moles. Untcrs., vol. v, pp. 73—90-) Eckard.—Tbe same. II. u. Pf.'s Ztschr., vol. v, p. 334. ludwig'ind Spiess.—Vergleiehung dcrWarme des Unterkiefer Driisenspeichels und des gleicliseitigen carotidenblutes. [On the Difference in Temperature of the Saliva from the Submaxillary Gland, and the Carotid Blood.] (H. u. Pf.'s Zeitschr. fur ration. Med., iii Reihe, vol. ii, pp. 361—367.) MILK. ScMossberger.—Menschliche Milch von ganz enormen Fettgehalt. [Human Milk containing an immense Excess of Fat.] Annal. der Chem. u. Ph., vol. 108, p. 64. Trommer.—Ber Eiweissgehalt der Kuhmilch. [On the Albumen of Cow's Milk.] Deutsche Klin., 42, 1858. Monier.—Nouvelle methode pour 1'analyse du lait^ au moyen de liqueurs titrees. [New Volumetric Method of Analysing Milk.] Compt. Rend., vol. xlvi, 1858, pp. 236 and 425. LIQUOR AMNII. Maiewski. — Substantiarum, quae liquoribus Amnii et AUantoidis insunt rationib'us diversis. [On the Composition of the AUantoid, and Amniotic Fluids.] Dissert, inaug. Dorpati, 1858. In his first paper, Inman points out tliat excessive secretion is a more frequent concomitant of debHity than of strength, and brings forv^ard many cases in illustration of his views. Spender, in liis remarks on the paper, thinks that Inman has confounded two essentially different processes—active and passive secretion, and believes that whenever we have an augmented secretion, as the result of weakened power, we ought to regard it, not as an exaltation of a physiological act, but rather as a purely physical process. In his second paper, Inman implies that aU excretions have a certam degree of vitality, which prevents their undergoing decomposition, and that the decomposing process begins when the vitality is destroyed; consequently he regards the vitality of an excretion as the criterion of a patient's strength; the quicker the excretion decomposes, the weaker bebg the vital power of the mdmduai who passed it. . . , to- < ]?UNKE calculated the quantity of sweat given out by different parts of the body during an hour or an hour and a half of active