REPORT ON THK INSTITUTES OF MEDICINE. 48 confirms Schwann's statement regarding the iiervus troclilearis giving off a motor branch to the lachrymal. He further says, that he found it give a branch to the nasal by wliich the lachrymal sac and duct are supplied; and lastly, that the lachrymal branch of the ophthalmic and of the superior maxillary do not always anastomose. Oehl says the olfactory nerve (pigeons, hens, &c.) spreads itself out into a fine plexus under the nasal mucous membrane, and that the nerve-fibres ultimately end in club-shaped bodies (ganghon- cells ?), lying immediately beneath the mucous epitheUum. Further, he says that the yellow colour- of the upper part of the nasal mucous membrane does not depend upon a deposit of pigment m the epithehum-cells, but upon a peculiar secretion of the mucous glands. RuDiNGEU describes the distribution of the nerves m the liga- ments, capsules, and synovial membranes of the joints. They axe mostly all, he says, of the cerebro-spinal origin. Ltjschka makes an historical addition to Dr. Krause s work on the termination of nerves. ScHiFF found that among small mammalia the reflex move- ment, after section of the cervical portion of the spmal cord is strongest in the hedgehog. In eels and carp it is more marked than in mammaha, and in amphibia even more so. Ihe sala- mander seems to feel pain after decapitation; but Schiff is stiU doubtful on the point. The posterior columns, he says, although alone sensitive, are not the only ones that conduct sensory im- Tiressions. It is rather the gray substance wluch conducts these. Longitudinal section of the spinal cord does not destroy the sensi- bilit? of the posterior columns. He denies that there is any cross- ing of the sensory fibres in the cord, and says that the gray istance can conduct motory as weU as sensory impres.on. There are no separate motory bundles m the cord which can, by a dkect (iot a reflex) stimulus, cause muscular move- bLw^-Sequaub saysthatthefunctionsof the brain, cord, and the JoryTnd sensory nerves, are increased by oxygen and diminished bytarlonic acid g'as. Hyperesthesia, he ^ bv the action of oxygen on the sensory nerves. Most ot the lacts I'd i^lhe other p'fpers are familiar to our rea ers since their pub- lication in the ' Lancet,' 1858. Bezold says, that-ist. Joluntary motii in amphibia, birds, and mammalia, is conducted d.ecUy