481 PUBLIC HYGIENE. believes, can be generated, whence the circumstance that the se- clusion of patients afl'ected with smallpox rarely prevents the spread of an epidemic. A'accination is the main remedy, with which re- vaccination must be combined. By these two measures the danger and fatality of variola are reduced to the narrowest limits. Cause makes a scries of good proposals for securing the efficiency of vaccination. He also urges the propriety of making revaccination, at intervals of ten years, compulsory. Of 241 pupils in the Lyceum at Versailles, 63, on revaccination, liad genuine, and 78 spurious, pustules. Eemilly believes revac- cination in lyceums to be higlily necessary. The mortality iu Ireland during the ten years preceding the 30th of March, 1851, was 1,360,000. Of these, 38,700 were due to smallpox. This gives an average of 39 deaths from smallpox in 1000 deaths from all causes, which is nearly double tlie proportion of deaths from smallpox occurring in London, and from ten to fifteen times greater than the mortality from this disease in many European states. M'Dojjnell discusses the causes of this state of affairs, and fears it will be long before it can be amended. Winter is an antagonist, "sub rosa," of vaccination. He wants the government of Hanover to abandon compulsion in vaccination. The medical council properly repHed to his request to put certain questions to be answered officiaUy by all medical practitioners of Hanover, that long and favorable experience had sanctioned the practice and compulsion of vaccination. 7. Appaeent Death. Inspection of the Dead. Koschate.—On the Certain Signs of Death and Apparent Death, and on the Means for preventing Premature Burials. Breslau, L. U. Kern, Collongues.—Application of the Dynamoscope for ascertaining the Occurrence of Death. Memoir presented to the Academy of Sciences. (Gaz. M^d de Pnri, No. 9.) ' ^""-'•i The disquisition of Koschate reveals no new or strikinj? intelH. gcnce. ° Collongues has constructed a peculiar instrument of ausculta tion, with which in many persons only just dead, a peculiar noise or murmur bourdonnement," is heard. When complete somatic death lias taken place, this murmur ceases. He says that in various cases of apparent deatli, in Avhich the heart had ceased to beat, but 31