DISKASKS AFFECTINO Tllli GENERAL SYSTEM. 177 Copenhagen the prostitutes are carefully examined every tlu-ee or four days, and that it has been observed occasionally that mucous papules liave developed in the interval between the visits, no chancre having pre\iously existed. Such were, of course, primary. He has observed, not uncommonly, mucous papules existing for months about the arms and genitals, and especially in children from seven to thirteen years old, without their presenting any other symptom of sypliilis or their constitution suffering in any way. Local treatment suiRces to cure these. A long and interesting discussion of the subject of sypliilization as a remedial means has been held at Christiana. Tlie lead was taken by Professor Bock, who gave the results he bad arrived at after four years' trial of the procedm-e. These may be summed up as follows : (i.) It is positively useful as a remedy against sypliilis; it is the only sure means we know wliich has no injurious effect on the orgaiusm, and thus enables us to reject mercury, which Bock believes to be often positively injurious. (3.) It is to a certain extent useful as a remedy against syphilis which has been treated by mercury; but it must also be always used to counteract the latter. (3.) The application of sypliilization against other diseases besides syphilis appears worthy of careful trial. The conclusions of Bock were to a certain extent confirmed by a commission of three other physicians appointed to inquire into the subject. The procedure is available in cases of hereditary syphihs, or congenital, as well as m acquired. The general health seems abiost always to improve considerably dui'iug the successive inoculations. In a report of diphtheria prevailing at Crowle, in Lincolnshire, Ellis states that, "with respect to the conimuuicability of the disease from person to person, there have been the clearest and most irrefragable proofs, the period of incubation varying from three or four days to nearly a month." It is remarkable that the Irisli residents, wlioso sanitary condition is utterly defective, have escaped entirely, ^ The following are the conclusions arrived at by Siblky in a paper on the statistics of cancer, (i.) In respect of age, it wa'=^ observed that nearly all the patients had arrived at maturity, four only being attacked under the age of twenty years. The averao-o age of those attacked with the disease in the uterus was forty-tluJo vears and a quarter; in the breast, forty-eight years and a half. The patients with epithelial cancer were somewhat older than those with 12