207 MUSCULAR SYSTEM. Avere 57 deaths (33 males, 35 females); comprisiug 5 melaucliolics, 16 maniacs, 3 cases of partial insanity, 34 imbeciles, Tlie author then gives short descriptions of the various forms of insanity as he classifies them, and concludes with an account of 73 autopsies. Of these he says that hypertrophy of the left ventricle of the heart and non-sjTumetry of the brain were surprisingly frequent, the latter bemg especially evident in the posterior horns of the lateral ven- tricles. Those who died in the fii-st stages presented far fewer anatomical changes in the brain than the cases of the secondary forms, especially the imbecile. In epileptic cases in general there were found no prominent and special post-mortem appearances, except some local hypertemias, and the author holds epilepsy to be much less connected with material change than mental disorder. MUSCULAR SYSTEM. Eodet—Atrophia muscularis progressiva syphilit Ursprungs. [Pro'>-ressive Mus _ cularAtrophy of Syphilitic Origin.] Schmidt's Jahrb., i8s9,voL io2, p. ,8.; J?nedberg-.-The Pathology and Therapeutics of Muscular Paralysis. (Review ) Bnt. and For. Med.-Chir. Rev., Jan., 1859, P- 82. A case of progressive muscular atrophy, of sypliilitic origin, is re- corded by EoDET, of Lyons. A male, xt. 56, was treated with bichlo- ride of mercury for an indurated chancre. During tliis time he got head-pam sleeplessness, and dull pains in the thighs, with extraordi- nary debility, especially of the right side, the right arm being most affected. Omission of the mercury, and afterwai-ds its resumption, made no cbfference in the disorder, wliich continued to increase and mdiKied atrophy of the muscles of the baU of the thumb of the nght, fore, and upper arm, and of the whole right lower ex- tremity. In aU the atrophied muscles fibrillary contractions oc- curred. Under a course of Potass. lod., prolonged for nine months, all the symptoms, both of syphilis and of atrophy, vanished, and th re r 1 '"^-""^^^ ^^^1^^.' An analogons cas reco ded by Nicper, in the 'Union Me'dicale' of April 31st 18 , treated .Mth Pot. lod., whereupon atrophy and eruption both got taBBBiiG considers that the derangement of nutrition of the