REPORT ON SURGERY. 282 by the Academy of ^Medicine of Paris to investigate the value of this proceeding passed an unfavorable opinion upon it. This RioroiiT contains particulars of eighty-eight cases, comprising— I. Tracheotomy for laryngeal disease, not including true croup (this series contains many cases of sypliilitic); laryngitis. 2. Ti-acheotomy for scalds of the glottis. 3. Tracheotomy for croup—fourteen cases, with four recoveries. 4. Ti-acheotomy for foreign bodies in the air-passages—thirteen cases; eight recoveries, and five deaths. At- tempts to seize the foreign body with forceps were generally unsuc- cessful J in the cases which recovered, it was ejected by coughing. Tudor confidently recommends, from personal experience, the scarification of the cedematous submucous tissue over the epiglottis, and figures a curved bistoiu-y for the purpose. This treatment has long been practised at the " Dreadnought." Buller's patient was a stout but scrofulous woman, set. 21. Suffocation was imminent. The operation was difficult, from the swollen state of the neck. Several arteries and one or two turgid veins bled profusely. Complete recovery took place. Some critical remarks upon inflammatory affections of the larynx, and the after- treatment of laryngotomy, are appended. Barker's patient, fifty-two years old, had had syphilis thii-ty years previously. Laryngeal symptoms had existed for four months. Several Aveeks after he entered the hospital, he fell one evening nearly suffocated. The trachea was at once opened by the house- surgeon ; immediate relief followed the introduction of the canula. The man was discharged a month afterwards. Porter tells us that symptoms of laryngeal disease had existed two years. Sudden death. A piece of mutton was found finuly impacted in the rima. Tlie epiglottis was destroyed, the stem of it only remaining. Jeaffreson describes a case of lai'jaigitis in a prostitute, who had first contracted syphihs fourteen years pre\iously. Hoarseness first noticed nine weeks before her admission into the hospital. Never any cough. Leeching, antimony, and mercury had been already tried, but the symptoms were so urgent that tracheotomy was proposed, but not performed till two days afterwards. In the interim the mercurial treatment was persisted in, and temporary relief was obtained by two bleedings to twenty-four and eighteen ounces. The patient recovered, but could not breathe when the tube was removed.