312 IILPOIIT ON SUllGKlir. Solly.—Clinical Lecture on Excision of tlie Knee-joint. April 2d, 1859. Watson.—On Excision of the Knee-joint, Glasgow Med. Jouin., Oct., 1859. Erichsen.—strumous Disease of the Knee-joint, with deposition of Tubercle in the Osseous Structures; Excision; Death from Erysipelas. Lancet, April 9th, 1859. Erichsen.—Excision of the Knee. Brit. Med. Journ., March 5th, 1859. FergUSSOn.—Excision of the Knee-joint with a single Incision. lb., Feb. 26th, 1859. Craven.—Excision of the Knee-joint; Subsequent Amputation ; Death. Med. Times and Gaz., July 30th, 1859. Kinlock,—Resection of the Knee-joint for Disease of the Synovial Membrane and Cartilages, in a Patient fifty-eight years of age. Amer. Journ. of Med. Sciences, July, 1859. Lister.—Excision of the Patella. Brit. Med. Journ., Sept. loth, 1859. Adams.—Practical Clinical Remarks on Surgical Openings into the Knee-joint. Lancet, Aug. 13th, 1859. Coulson.—Penetrating Wound of the Knee-joint in a Girl, with escape of Synovial Fluid; Successful Treatment by Irrigation. Lancet, Jan. 8th, 1859. Hodge.—A Case of Hydrarthrosis of the Knee-joint treated by Tapping and Iodine externally. lb., Jan. 29th, 1859. Erichsen.—Practical Clinical Remarks on Diseases of the Tarsus. Lancet, June i8lh, 1859. Stillman,—Extensive Caries of the Os Calcis cured by Operation. lb., April i6th, 1859. Hancock.—Practical Clinical Remarks on Resection of the Ankle-joint. lb., Oct, ist, 1859. Hancock.—Excision of the Ankle-joint in a Child for extensive Disease; Recovery with a Useful Foot. lb., April 9th, 1859. Stone describes tliree cases of very acute necrosis of large bones, terminating fatally from pyaemia. CuKLiNG advocates the treatment of acute periostitis of deep- seated bones by early and free incisions, and illustrates its advan- tages by successful cases. Klose describes under this title acute inflammation, commencing in the medullary-membrane, extending to the periosteum, and termi- nating in the separation of the diaphysis from the epiphyses. In the first stage of the disease, dissection shows liyperaemia of the medulla with scattered apopletic extravasations, and exudations under the periosteum which partially sloughs. Subsequently sup- pvu-ation takes place, and the epiphysis becoming soaked with pus, its connection with the shaft is loosened. Deatli takes place from exhaustion or pyaemia. GossELiN shows Klose's "Epiphysentrennung" to be identical with Chassaignac's "Osteomyelitis," but considers both names objectionable; the first because it only indicates the consequence