290 REPORT ON SURGERV. Demarquay lias remarked tliat dangerous inflammation oftens follows the reduction of omentum, in confirmation of which he cites three cases. Heath's patieut, ret. 55, had had an umbilical hernia for twenty years. It was as large as the fist, and had been strangulated two days. The apertiu'c in the abdominal walls was immediately below the navel, and its margin having been divided downwards, the gut was returned. Heath then dissected the sac from its connexions and passed a double tluread tlirough its base, and through a large piece of adherent omentum, after Avhich he cut both the sac and omentum away. The subsequent treatment consisted of the free exhibition of opium. The M'ound healed without any ajipearance of protrusion. EuiCHSEN, after alluding to the common form of congenital hernia in which the testis is in the scrotum, calls attention to a second and more uncommon form of hernia, -where the testis has been retained above the external inguinal ring, and adduces some cases of tliis nature. Eavoth reports an inguinal hernia in a boy fourteen months old. A truss had been worn from the sixth month, the spring broke, the bowel came down and became strangulated. Porty-eight hours after the onset of the symptoms Eavoth operated. The large size of the swelling made it probable that the caecum formed part of the pro- trusion. The sac was imopened, the ring dilated with a blunt hook, and the contents retm-ned without further difficulty. Cicatriza- tion was complete on the twenty-first day. Eeference is made to seventeen cases of herniotomy in children, nine of which proved fatal. ' Cuuling's patient, eet. 60, had had an irreducible hernia for nine- teen years. Strangulation during foiu- days; the sweUing, as large as an egg, occupied the left labium. The sac was opened; the stricture was very tight; some dark, congested omentum was re- turned and a portion that was adherent and irreducible was cut ott. She died twenty-one hom-s afterwards. The neck of the sac was internal to the epigastric artery ; the conjoined tendon was to its inner side. The strangulated gut was three inches long, claret- coloured, and coated with Ijnnph. . Ill Musset's case, the bulk of the hernial tumour, which was as large as a fist, consisted of omentum, closely adherent to the sac. A small loop of gut was returned, but the omentimi left down It came away in shreds, without any dangerous symptoms.