15 OSSEOUS SYSTEM. the dorsal series the cup and ball present more ordinary Saurian proportions. Owen describes a fossil skull, and certain of the teeth of a quadruped of the size • of a lion, in which he points out the characters indicative of its carnivorous habits, and of its affinities to the marsupial order. The large size of the temporal fossse, together with the large carnassial teeth, both in the upper and lower jaws, evince the carnivorous habits of the extinct species. While the vacuity in the bony palate; large lachrymal bone, perforated by the canal anterior and external to the orbit; the separation of the tympanic from the petrous bone; the development of the " bulla auditoria" in the alisphenoid; the low and broad occiput, and the very small relative capacity of the brain-case, &c., lead him to believe that it belongs to the marsupial class. Ollier's experiments are exceedingly curious. He found that—I. A flap of periosteum retaining its attachment to the bone by one end, lodged among the muscles, under the skin, or elsewhere, contracts adhesions with the surrounding parts, and forms new bone on its under sui-face. The new bone, assuming the form and disposition of the flap, adheres to the old bone whence the periosteum was peeled off. 2. The communicating pedicle of the flap may be excised tliree or four days after the transplantation, and the process of ossification still continue. 3. The periosteum may be entirely detached from the bone, and lodged in a distant part of the body, and yet osseous deposit occur. 4. Pieces of bone separated from the soft parts, but retaining their periosteum, may be trans- planted, and live in new localities. KoLLiKEE says, that a great many genera of osseous fishes possess no bone-corpuscles, radiated or fusiform in their skeleton, and there- fore no real osseous tissue. In 1850 Williamson pointed out the absence of bone-corpuscles in the bones of the cod, haddock, perch, plaice, pike, and various other fishes, distinguishing them in this respect from the bones of the eel, in which the corpuscles are abundant. KoUiker gives a very long list of the fishes he examined, and concludes that the osseous fishes, notwithstanding their great number, are separated in a very remarkable way into two groups : all the higher organized tribes of Pkjsostom.i possessing bone- corpuscles; aU the numerous tribes of Acantho^iteri, vdi\i the exception of the genus Thynnus, having none. T^olliker also extended his observations to the hard structures of