PATHOLOGY OF PREGNANCY AND PARTURITION. 343 lu one case described by Kussmaul, and in live others quoted, tlic oviile had apparently crossed the uterus and taken up its position in the Fallopian tube of the opposite side to that in wliichthe corpus luteum ^yas formed. In Hancox's case, the foetus appeared to be over eight months old. The right Fallopian tube was enlarged to the size of the uterus at nine months, and rupture of the cavity had occurred, the foetus being found in the abdomen. PiERSON relates a case of (left) Fallopian pregnancy, fatal at about six weeks from rupture of, and haemorrhage from, the posterior wall of the tube. Harley's case was fatal at the fifth month. Cases of extra-uterine foetation are described by Eizzo, Yan Geuns and ScHRANT, Muller, Cahen, "Waller, Chevillon, Eeymann, and Hall Davis. In Van Geuns and Schrant's case, a woman set. 42, who had had seven children, the last four years before, died of pneumonia in the hospital at Amsterdam. For twelve years there had been a swelling in the abdomen towards one side, somewhat moveable, firm, and hard. On examination, the tumour M^as dis- covered to be the remains of a foetus, enclosed in a firm, dense cyst, which cyst was adherent by a band to the anterior waU of the abdomen. In Cahen's case, the remains of the foetus were found in the abdomen. The woman died three months after the expected end of the pregnancy. In Chevillon's case, the remains of a foetus were removed from the abdomen four years after the commencement of the pregnancy. The mother did well. In Waller's case, the remains of fcetal bones were passed by the rectum ten years after a supposed pregnancy. In Hall Davis's case of ovarian gestation, the foetus was con- tained in a cyst developed from the ovary, which cyst was situated between the uterus and rectum. It was punctured, and fluid eva- cuated, but the patient died, and the remains of the foetus were found in the cyst. The memoir of Kros, on the obHquely distorted pelvis, contains aii account of those cases which occurred before 1839, unknown to Naegek<, also of the cases which have been published since that time. The progress of the labours in these cases is described, and the diagnosis pointed out.