436 REPORT ON LEOAL MEDICINE, ETC. The poison was inanufactured into lozenges. Tlie jury acquitted tlie prisoner, by direction of the judge, as there had been no criminal negligence of the druggist, but an ignorant mistake of his boy only, who had been duly' cautioned. At the date of the trial, De- cember aist, 1858, this sad mistake had resulted in the death of twenty-one persons. In America, a Dr. King, having had adulterous intercourse with an unmarried young woman, murdered his lawful wife and mother of his clrild, by administering to her repeated large doses of white arsenic, of which, after death, aS much as eleven grains were found in the stomach by Professor Croft, of Toronto, to whom the m- testiues had been transmitted for analysis. King was condemned and executed. n , et. Eo<^E reports the case of an infant nine months old, who after sucking a green cake of colour from a child's paint-box, was taken severely iU, but under treatment recovered. The paint was arsenite of copper. ■ ■ -u Abegg observed a case of what appeared to be poisonmg by strychnia. The man died, notwithstanding medical aid. After death large quantities of arsenic were found in the stomach, and absorbed strvchnia in the tissues. The suicide had taken arsemc first, and hastened his death by a subsequent dose of strychma. At the Central Criminal Coiut, Dr. Smethurst, a married man, was arraigned for the murder, by poison, of IsabeUa Banks, a lady with whom, after a sham marriage, he had cohabited. The pra - titioners who had attended the deceased durmg life, as also the gentlemen who had performed the post-mortem «a ion and L medico-legal chemists retained by the prosecutioi, by .10m arsenic had be'en detected in one -acuation, and sniaU q^^^^^^^^ of antimony in portions of the intestines, contended that the de c ased had died from repeated doses of irritant poison. The defence W on the other ha^d, the probability of natm-al disease, com- p itt d by pregnancy, which the medical attendants of the deceased trnot lfgno'sed, logether with the absence of several leach^ig features of arsenical and antimonial poisomng; and accounted foi t m 1 ute portions of antimony found in the body, by suggesting TatTmight have been contained in the gray powder or trismtra 0 bismuth, which the deceased had taken as mechcin s. Tl 0 sen'n ti e evacuation they also contended might have been de-