DISliASES AFFECTING THE GENERAL SYSTEM. 153 tion is cliiefly confined to the tonsils and soft palate. The best treatment is by nitrate of silver locally (sss ad Bj) with Tr. Terri Muriat. and Pot. Chloras. internally. The second form is crotipal diphtheria^ which is more frequent in children than adults^ and has occasioned the greater part of the mortality from this disease. It sets in Avith active fever^ intense headache, engorgement of the glands behind the jaw, and perceptible difiiculty of deglutition. The tlu-oat and mouth are foiuid covered "nith yellowish leathery exudation. Symptoms of croupal suffocation soon supervene, from the extension of the diphtheric formation to the air passages; and when this is the case, recovery is exceptional. Yiolent fi^ts of coughing sometimes expel false membrane, which may have extended far down the bronchi; bu.t this only affords a temporary relief; the morbid process soon renews the obstruction, and, after repeated struggles, death closes the scene. The best treatment is by diligent cauterization fldtli nitrate of silver solution, or mui'iatic acid, an ipecacuan emetic, and the combination of Tr. Terri Mui-iat. and Pot. Chloras., before mentioned. Tracheotomy should be performed before it is too late, if the symp- toms show that the disease, without being arrested by the cauteriza- tion.s, has gravely affected the larynx. The third form is the malig- nant, in wliich the most prominent featui-e is profound adynamia. The glands, submaxillar}^, parotid, and cervical, and the areolar tissue become prodigiously swollen, and the interior of the tliroat is covered with a deposit which early exliales an intolerable foetid odour. Death may occur early through sudden and extreme adjaiamia, or later in a state of coma. The treatment must be similar to that of the second form, but support by wine and such nutriment as can be adminis- tered must be diligently pressed. Liquor Sod. Clilorinat. is a highly useful local application. Convalescence in such cases is tedious and difficult; tliere is often loathing of food; and swelling is inter- fered with to some extent by paralysis of the soft palate or pharyn- geal muscles. Hemiplegia may occur, or severe otalgia, amaurosis, and headache. Eamskill makes some observations respecting the local treat- ment of cases of diphtheria, in wliich difficulty of swallowin"- and breathing does not occur very early—not before the end of the^'third day. He is convinced " that any treatment, such as tlie appHca- tion of strong caustics, which causes rapidly increasing swelling of the cervical submaxillary and neighbouring glands, is bad, and sure to be attended by corresponding extension of the disease witliin and