401 DISEASES OP CHILDREN. same author, on various points in the pathology, &c., of bronchitis and bi-oncho-pneumonia, and on pleuritic affections, in children. Eauchfuss gives the results of his investigations on the patholo- gical or cadaveric nature of softening of the lung, as described by Kostlin and Bednar. In four hundred cases examined, the indepen- dent form of the affection was fomid only eight times. Softening of the lung was found in twenty-nine cases in all. The age in the eight cases varied from ten days to six months. The other post-mortem appearances in these cases are described in detail. The conclusions of the author are, that there are two kinds of softening of the lung- substance—the one dependent on local and general pathological con- ditions, the other of a cadaveric nature, and due to the acid contents of the stomach passing into the trachea (confirming Bednar's origmal views on this subject). That these two kinds of softening may exist together. Behee?^d records three cases of obstinate hoarseness in children successfully treated by the appHcation of solid nitrate of silver to the mucous membrane of the throat and entrance to the windpipe. The author considers that there is a mild form of cedema of the mucous membrane present in such cases, perhaps identical with that known as "clergyman's sore throat." West remarks on the extreme frequency of sudden death during the first year of life. Of 627 cases of sudden death in London, ]ii 1854, 236 were cases of infants under a year old. Such death IS oftenest produced, the author beHeves, by sudden interference with the respiratory process, and in tlu-ee out of four cases it is probably due to laryngismus stridulus. Any spasmodic disorder ot respiration, sudden impressions on the nervous system .udden change of temperature, position, &c., may, by exciting convulsions cause death m this sudden way. Another cause of sudden death in infancy is extensive and sudden invasion of the respiratory organs by disease, as whe^e large portions of the lungs become collapsed orjliere serous effusion takes place suddenly into the cavity of the BoucHiJT recommends the insertion of silver, curved canulas in the nostrils m cases of coryza in infants, in order that the act of sucknig may not be interfered with, this being contemporaneous Mitli Other treatment. ^ ^ntous Bo„N describes very fatal epidemics of croup in Kom^sbero- .11.0 mortality was seventy-six per cent. False membranes, varvii*;^ 2G