REPOET OH PRACTICAL MEDICINE. 170 which gradually vanished during recovery. During the highest period of the disease the capillaries were found obstructed by pig- ment-masses in the intensely brown-coloured cortical substance of the brain, in the tissue of the liver, in the splenic pulp, in the Mal- pighian bodies of the kidneys, and in the glands; and many of the most prominent symptoms of the disease dui-ing life corresponded to the post-mortem appearances occasioned.by accumulation of pigment. In none of these cases was any trace of tubercle discovered at the autopsy. In the treatment of various nem-algise, croton oil exter- nally was found of striking [eclalanie) efficacy, more so than cliloro- form. In pjieuniotiia it is stated that affection of the right lung was more fatal than that of the left, in the ratio of twenty-one to five. Tar- tar emetic and ipecacuanha were the principal means employed, in doses varying according to the severity of the dyspnoea. Venesection was employed in individual cases with good results, according to the known indications for its use. With regard to pulmonary ewphy- sema, it was observed that dyspncEa, even in extreme cases, was by no means a constant symptom; nor was hypertrophy of the recti abdominal muscles ever discovered. Turpentine inhalations were more useful than any other means in the treatment of the actual dis- ease. A case is mentioned in wliich the heart was already displaced far beyond the median line, and resumed its normal position com- pletely under the use of these inhalations. One yomig patient was quite restored by the cold douche; and another, a middle-aged female, by strychnia carried to the degi-ee of producing shght poi- sonous effects. In inflammatory affections of the mouth and tliroat, tannin washes were usually sufficient; but in severe cases, thi-eaten- ing suffocation and suggesting a resort to tracheotomy, ice-lumps and pencilling with tincture of iodine proved imiformly successful. Of cases of variola, there occui'red, in 1856—vaccinated, 412, of wliicli 8 died; non-vaccinated, 51, of which 12 died. In 1857 there were 368 vaccinated, with 34 deaths; 59 non-vaccinated, with 8 deatlis. Fsoriasis was treated with apphcations of soap and tan, and with a weak calomel and iodine ointment. iU'senic was of httle avail. In lupus, repeated paintings with strong tinctm-e of iodine were found most useful, or nitrate of silver M'ith full doses of 01. !Menth. in- ternally. In acne rosacea the application of the foUowiug was very useful: Liq. Sulph., 5j; Alcohol. Rectif., yEther Sulph., ana Sss. A report of the results of numerous examinations of the urine and other secretions by IIelleii contains some interesting state-