VASCULAR SYSTEM. 31 blocked up, and the animal rapidly died. On post-mortem exa- mination, the charcoal was found in the inferior vena cava; in one case as far down as the junction of the renal veins. Bezold confirms the fact that a heart suspended by its vessels continues to pulsate longer than when laid on a flat surface. Also Stannius's observations on the efi'ects of ligature of the organ. He noticed, that in frogs, when the auricle is suddeidy separated from the ventricle, it ceases to pulsate; whereas the ventricle con- tinues to do so. Division of the heart longitudinally does not pre- vent either the auricle or ventricle contracting, if the section be made during the diastole. Lastly, he confirmed Kolliker's state- ment regarding the effect of woorara in preventing the stoppage of the heart's action when galvanism is applied to the poisoned pneumogastric nerve. WiTTiCH revives the theory regarding the influence of the cardiac gangha on the rhythmical contractions of the heart. On making sections of the ventricles of frogs' hearts, he says, he always found that the portion to which the gangha were attached continued to pulsate; but that the pulsations ceased immediately after the removal of the ganglia. EcKHARD says that the spontaneously acting cardiac ganglia are not, as Bidder supposed, attached to the septum atriorum, nor those of reflex action situated in the atrio-ventricular margin. He con- firms Stannius's statement regarding the repose of the heart after its division at the union of the venous sinus and right auricle. Tliis happens even when many of the gangha in the septum escape injury. Pflugeu found that a strong electric current passed through the vagi did not stop the action of the heart; he therefore thinks that Schiff is wrong in saying that the pneumogastrics are the motor nerves of that organ. Heidenhaix estimated the quantity of blood in different animals by Welcker's method, and found, that in the rabbit, on an average the weight of the blood to that of the body is as i to 17 j whereas m the dog it is as i to 13. In three dogs that had fasted—the first 6, the second 9, the third 14 days, he found the weight of the blood to that of the body as i to 13-5, i to 13-33, and i to 1275. Almost the same proportions as in the healthy animal. Welcker, in his last paper, gives, as the result of his experi- ments, the subjoined table of the average quantity of blood in—