RliPORT ON MIDWIFERY, ETC. 396 essential infantile paralysis : That form of infantile paralysis which has been called essential, is a nervous paralysis, tlie residue of a con- gestive or inflammatory condition of the nervous centres or nerves, and this condition, together with the paralysis, may be removed sooner or later by natural processes. KiDD believes that the distortion of the featui-es occasionally noticed in newly born children is caused by paralysis of the portio dura, difl'ering from McClintock, who is disposed to attribute it to " spasmodic tic." In Philson^'s case of hydi'ocephalus, GoUs's treatment, by small and repeated doses of calomel, was found e£B.cacious. KoHLEii states that the condition of the spinal cord in cases of hydi'ocephalus has been too frequently overlooked; the convulsions, &c., observed in cases of hydrocephalus are not always due to cere- bral irritation. Three cases are related exemplifjang these views. BuAiNAJiD relates two cases in which iodine was injected into the lateral ventricles of the brain, one by liimself, the other by Towmesko, of Bucharest. In neitber case was the injection followed by serious consequences. The permanent good effected does not appear to have been considerable. Watson observed symptoms of hydrocephalus a few weeks after tlie core of an eczematous eruption of the scalp in a child, set. 2. Croton oil was applied with perfect success. Bakg remarks that although tubercular meningitis is considered incurable by some authorities (Camper, Trousseau), he has been able to collect eigliteen weU-anthenticated cases of cure. Tuberculous meningitis is characterised by its attacking scrofulous children. A cure is only to be hoped for when improvement can be effected in the state of the blood. Bleeding is only admissible at the commencement. Prophylaxis, by the use of anti-scrofulous remedies and derivants, is very important. Bbsters, cold affusion to the head, and, if the dis- ease has reached the exudative stage, blisters, croton oil, or tartar emetic, rubbed in over the shaved scalp, are recommended. In the early stage of the affection, to which period alone Hauvet's observa- tions refer, tliis author considers bloodletting as very important, its action being subservient to the action of purgatives, and the benefit derived from it being that it reduces the irritability of the stomacli, and thus allows pui-gatives to be given. " A case Avhich does not admit of bleeding does not admit of cure." This remedy has of late, it is contended, been too mucb neglected.