DIGESTIVE SYSTEM. 237 Thornhill.—Peculiarities regarding the Location of certain Organs of the Abdo- minal Viscera, in a Case of Dysentery complicated with Aneurism of the dorsal portion of the Aorta. Dublin Hosp. Gaz., Oct. ist, 1859. Canton.—On a Case of Digestive Solution of the (Esophagus. Lancet, Oct. 8th, 1859. Bovero.—Ueber die organischen Verengerungeu des Mastdarms in Folge von Syphilis. Schmidt's Jalirb., 1859, vol. 104, p. 69. Wade.—Clinical Illustrations of the Diagnosis and Treatment of Ulcer of the Stomach. Brit. Med. Jour., Oct. 22d, 1859. Habershon.—Malposition of the Abdominal Viscera, in relation to the Causes and Diagnosis of Disease. Guy's Hosp. Reports, 1859, vol. v, p. 164. Wolff—Chronischer Katarrh der Darme. [Chronic Intestinal Catarrh.] Schmidt's Jabrb., 1859, i°4> P- ^7^- Steinberg.—A Case of Inflammation of the Vena Portae. Dublin IIosp. Gaz., Nov. 15th, 1859. Habershon.—On Pain as a Sign of Disease of the Stomach. Med. Times and Gaz., Nov. 26th, 1859. Donaldson. —On the Diarrhoea and Dysentery of India and China. Edin. Med. Jour., Dec, 1859, p. 5^3- Clark.—Clinical Illustrations of Mucous Disease of the Colon, from notes of various cases. Lancet, Dec. 17th, 1859. Wells.—Alkalies or Acids in Stomach Disorders Brit. Med. Jour., Dec. 24th, 1859. Beinton's work on diseases of the stomach consists of a series of lectures, preceded by a chapter on its anatomy and physiology. The first lecture treats of the s^Tuptoms of gastric disease gene- rally, particularising pain, eructation, regurgitation, vomiting, hemorrhage, and flatulence. Lecture 11 examines cia-cumstauces coimected with the examination of the stomach after death- gastritis, gastric catarrh, hfemorrhagic erosion, and follicular ulceration. Lecture iii treats of ulcer of the stomach. Lecture IV of cancer. Lecture v comprises cirrhotic inflammation, or plastic hmtis of the stomach, suppurative linitis, tumoui-s, hyijer- ti'ophy, atrophy, dilatation, secondary inflammation. Lecture vi treats of dyspepsia. AYith regard to vomiting, he propounds the general rule, "that the facility with which an irritation produces N omitmg vanes (other things being equal) with the closeness of .•illiance between the stomach and the irritated part.'' The pro duction of flatulence by secretion of gases from the mucous mem .ranc itself he entirely rejects. On the subject of gastric catarrh he observes, that a careful review of details "perhaps justifies us in •suspending our judgment as to the nature (or even the sul^stantive existence) of gastric catarrh, until larger and more exact infor mation ,s before us.- Hsemorrhagic erosion he thinks is often cbstrnguishable during life, and may be regarded as ulcerative gastritis. Yet he entertains doubts whether, in manv cases "which