477 PUBLIC HYGIENE. influences M'liich necessarily occasion varieties of beer. Thus, if barley be used for malting wliicli has grown on a field manured with sheep's dung, the beer prepared from such malt does not become clear and bright, and is easily spoiled. After having de- scribed the properties of good beer, he enumerates the causes of its badness, and advocates the interference of the sanitary police. When so-called turned, or spoiled, acid beer has been made sweet again by means of lime, potassa, or other alkahes, it is flat, not spirituous, and causes colic, diarrhoea, and affections of the urinary organs. The article describes at length the modes of discovering adultera- tions. After all, the organs of taste seem to be the principal and most infallible judges of beer, as they are of wine. g. Mineral waters. Ossian Henry, father aud son—Practical Treatise on the Chemical Analysis of Drinkable and Useful Mineral Waters, and on their principal Applications to Hygienic and Industrial Purposes. Paris, Germer-Bailliere. This work is a sort of encyclopaedia of all that is known relative to the chemistry of mineral waters, their hygienic and industrial applications, the geology of the environs of springs. It comprises accounts of natural and artificial mineral waters and of ordinary drinking-water. The chapter, on the medical effects of mineral waters in general, is very interesting to the practical physician. An entire chapter is devoted to the description of animals and plants which live in mineral waters. The sixteenth chapter treats of the puri- fication of unwholesome waters. The work comprises the whole science of water, is written in a very practical style, and will no doubt prove interesting and useful to the medical practitioner, the chemist, farmer, geologist, and manufacturer. V. CONTAGION AND MIASMA. Guerdan (of Bllligheim).—On the " Genesis organica" of Contagions, and the " Genesis tellurica" of Miasmata. (Deutsche, ii, i.) Hennigson.—Contributions to the Doctrine of Contagion. (Casper, n i ) Krilgelstein.-On the Sanitary Relations of the Trade in Mattresses", Beds and Bed-feathers. (Henke, 4.) ' When an author begins an inquiry into a subject of natui-al and medical science with such a sentence as tliis : that ordinary genera- tion IS nothing else but an act of infection of the female by the