REPORT ON SURGERY. 324 ration is present, Eicorcl gives mercury at once. He prefers tlie internal exhibition, bnt wlien this is inadmissible, he employs inunr- tion or fumigation. Salivation is not desirable, but if it should ha])pen, he arrests it with chlorate of potash, two scruples to one di'achm of M'hich are to be given daily. The mercurial is followed by a course of iodide of potassium, one scruple to three scruples a day. Li a resume of these lectures, llicord teaches the unity of the syphilitic virus, and the existence of a second venereal or clian- chrous pus, wliich gives rise to the simple chancre, and is indepen- dent of syphilis. The latter half of the book is an appendix of notes and cases, to which is tacked on a description of a urethrotome con- trived by the translator. TETANUS. Elichsen. — Pfictical Clinical Remarks on Tetanus. Lancet, Feb. 261I1, i8-;9, p. 206. Canton.—Traumatic Tetanus from a Lacerate(l|Wound of the Forearm and Radial Artery. Treatment by Belladonna and Cliloroforra. Fatal result. II)., Feb. 5tli, 1859. P- 133- Hughes.—Traumatic Tetanus following a Simple Fracture of the Fore Arm. Median Nerve found stretched over the spiculated upper fragment of the Ulna. Dublin IIosp. Gaz., Feb. 1st, 1859. Cases of Traumatic Tetanus. Glasgow Med. Jouvn., July,- 1859, pp. 197—204. M'Ghie—Two Cases of Traumatic Tetanus. lb., Oct. 1859, p. 321. EmcHSEN advocates the division of the nerve leading from the wound in acute traumatic tetanus. Hughes relates that a girl, set. 7, feU and broke her forearm. She went on well for several days, when acute tetanus set in, and death took place two days afterwards. The median nerve was found stretched over and in close contact with the spiculated supe- rior fragment of the broken ulna. The ' Glasgow Medical Journal' gives a report of three cases; one treated with cannabis incUcus, one with chloroform, and one with digitalis. All died. In botli M'Gjiie's cases tetanus followed a severe crush of the foot, and both were treated with cannabis indicus. One recovered.