DISEASES AFFECTING THE GENERAL SYSTEM. 165 observations : " lu conclusion^ I would observe that the pheuoanena produced by the presence of the diphtheric poison in the s_ystem appear to be separable into two distinct classes—the one referable to the throat and air-passagesj and shomng themselves in the irritation and familiar membranous exudation upon these parts; the other referable to some special chemical influence exerted upon the nervous matter, which shows itself in the first instance, {a), by depression of this system, in common Avith (and probably as the primary cause of that of) the other powers of life ; {b), during the whole of the acute stage of the disease, by the relaxed and often perspiring skin, the feeble pidse, the listless and often indifferent manner, &c.; [c), at a later period, by the occasional rapid and sudden sinking, wlieu the patient appears to be steadily progressing towards convalescence; {(I), at a still later date, by the occurrence of various degrees of palsy, even after convalescence may have been fairly established, jind in reference to the light reflected upon the natm-e of the disease by the residts of treatment, I would say, that as all appear- to be agreed that this, even in the early stages of the malady, should be tonic, and in every way such as to stimulate and support flagging nervous power, so the fact that these forms of palsy which occur- (liu-ing convalescence—after failing to get well vni\ alteratives or when left to the nnaided powers of natui-e—readily yield to the in- lluence of the nervine tonics, such as steel, zinc, and quinine, is a fiu-ther proof of what I have endeavoured to illustrate, that the diph- theric poison is essentially a nerve-poison, one of the effects of which —and that not the least important—is its power of destroyin"- or preventing the evolution of nervous force." ^ In the 'British Medical Journal' for July i6th, 1859, besides .^hort papers on diphtheria by Messrs. Cross, Bottomley, and Jen- mugs, there is a longer commiuiication from Mr. T. H. Smith, of St. Mary Cray, Kent. His remarks are in the main confirmatory of fhose of other observers. He testifies to the remarkable exemption of the pauper class of patients, to the distinctness of the disease from scarlatina, and to the absence of any peculiar locahzatiou of the disease m the haunts of fever and cholera. The testimony which he gives as to the change of type of disease, after an expe- rience of upwards of thirty years, is as follows. After stating that lie had seen no case of diphtheria before 1857, he proceeds- "In observing the progress of tliis epidemic, I have been histinctively led to reflect on the altered type of disease in general. I have myself