419 DISEASES 01;' CHILDREN. member were expelled after the child. The mother had a severe fall eight weeks before the labour began, to wliich the amputation is attributed. Gbess/s memoir consists of an analysis of seventy-six observa- tions respecting imperforations, &c., of the face. DuNCAX relates, that in an infant which died three days after birth, there the bladder, vagina, and rectum, opened in a single cavity; all communicating externally by a single duct, not more than two lines in diameter. Senftleben remarks on the frequency with which atresia ani and malformations of the kidneys and internal organs are associated, and he believes that the mortality following operations for atresia ani is attributable to this. Two cases are related in which atresia ani and defective formation of the kidney coexisted. PiCAEJDAT states that complete absence of the urethra is more common in women than men; the mine in such cases escapes at the umbilicus. Hypospadias, of which there are tliree varieties, is witnessed in the female as well as in the male sex. The deviations in the form and direction of the urethra, the double urethra., fee, are next described. Godard describes the various_^malformations, &c., of the testicle. In Mileoy's case the foetus was bom at about the eighth month. The head was disproportionately large; there was no anus, no trace of the generative organs. A caudal-like appendage was situated over what corresponded to the sacrum. There was only one lower extremity. According to GeofFroy St. Hilaire's arrangement, the foetus belonged to the family " Symeliens/' The uterus bicoruis is produced, according to Kuiegeu, in conse- quence of persistence of that connexion between the allantois and the rectum which subsists at an early period; the fundus of the uterus does not then become developed. The relation of atresia ani to the double conditions of the uterus is minutely analysed. Atresia ani may occur without partial or entire duplicity of the internal sexual organs, and vice versa. Eokitansky relates two cases, in one of which the uterus bicomis was present, but only one of these divisions opened into the vagina, the other being closed. In the other case one of the divisions opened into a rudimentary vagina, which terminated in a blind extremity below. These cases have a practical interest in relation to the diagnosis of retention of the menses.