46 REPORT ON THE INSTITUTES OF MEDICINE. Wundtj showing the action of the closed continuous cm-rent upon the muscular fibre, when the electrodes are directly apphed to the muscles, and no such action when the stimulus is conveyed to the muscles through the instrumentality of the nerves. Gratiolet treats of the relation of the outward form of the skull to that of the brain. The results of his observations, which extend over a great part of the animal kingdom, are quite opposed to plirenology. EoussEAU, Lesure, and Mageon state that, if two opposite cur- rents be allowed to act upon different points of a nerve at the same time, only the peripheral part of the nerve will exert any influence upon the attached muscles. Beukaud calls attention to the difi'erence between a constant and an interrupted current. During the former the leg of the frog remains stiU,—during the latter the muscles are seized with tetanic spasm. Pfltjger says, that very weak, constant currents of electricity never induce tetanus—moderate currents caU it into play, and strong currents arrest it. Eosenthal's experiments show that if a constant current be kept up for several minutes, at the moment of breaking the circuit tetanic spasm takes place. If the circuit be again closed in the same direction during the spasm, the tetanus ceases. On the other hand, if it be closed in the opposite dii-ection, the spasm is increased. Then, again, if one waits till the spasm has passed, and then closes and reopens the circuit in the same direction, the tetamc spasm comes on just as strong as if it had been closed in the opposite dii-ection. Jacubowitsch has adopted Gerlach's method of imbibing sec- tions of brain and spinal cord with carmine solution. He says that he can distin!?uish between sensory, motory, and sympathetic gan- gUon-cells in the spinal cord. The first are spindle-shaped, the second star-shaped, and the last round or oval. Bemak again raises the question regarding his right to be considered the discoverer of the peripheral ganghon. He says that as early as 1840, he discovered them in the digestive canal of man, and in 1843, in that of birds. Geulach describes the nerve-fibres of the brain as terminatmg m cells and granular masses. As there are many more fibres than ceUs several of the former must terminate in one of the latter. KoLLiKEK says that he has been unable to make out the arrange- ment described by Gerlach. BiLLBOTH revives the old views regarding the plexiform termi-