ClllCULATOllY SYSTEM. 213 heart, leiiviug tlic second healthy, as observed hy Dr. Stokes. (6.) Tliat there are grounds for supposing that this Mty state of the aortic valves may go on for years M-ithoiit affecting the diiration of Hfe. (7.) That visible pulsation of the arteries often attends this state, but as there is no regm-gitation, it so differs from the disease described by Dr. Corrigan. (8.) That enlargement occurs in more than half the cases of fatty heart. (9.) That in keeping with this, a large diffluent pulse is the most common kind to meet in fatty lieart. (10.) That either a very slow, unequal, or rapid pulse is only met ni exceptional cases. (11.) That the French way of exclusion is, iii the absence of vahadar disease, the chief ^vay of arriving at the diagnosis of fatty heart. (13.) That there is often a marked dispro- portion between tlie complaints of the patient of dyspucea and the physical efforts made to relieve it. (13.) That'tliis is possiblv most marked when the right heart is the farthest advanced in disease. Talley records a case of ulceration of the aorta near its origin, winch caused death suddenly by opening into the pericar- dium. The orifice T^•as as large as the end of the middle fino-er its edges wre indurated, and the lining membrane, for an inch'and a hal t,o the oi-igm of the vessel, of a dark-red colour, and coated with lymphy deposits. There was no aneurismal dilatation of the aorta, ilie patient was in the third stage of phthisis Da Costa has recently studied the blowing ^sound in the pulmonary artery, which was originally pointed out as a symptom occurring in tuberculous patients by Dr. Latham. After giving- he particulars of eight cases in which tliis physical sign occmTec{ proceeds to describe it as '^a mmunur attending the imprdse 0 he heart, almost always soft and low-pitched, although occasionally harsher, of higher pitch, and simulating a sibilant r-de. Its situ, tion IS 111 the second intercostal space on the left side, not an inch from the edge of the sternum. It may be audible higher up again opposite the third rib, or the sternum. The space i l li rf f very limited, and can be accurately circi^c beH , the stethoscope. It is not heard dm-ing a full inspiration • I f very distinctly after inspirarion, or with txpirati n T place of he hrs sound at the spot it is heard, but is fol W b a distinct second sound. When the patient is breathin-.- c uicklv and the heart s action excited, it is best disringuisher^ T u ^ always of equal distinctness, or of ecpial pitch; but i s not tr 1