443 POISONS AND POISONING. From a series of experimeutSj Melsens comes to the following conclusions. IX'icotia can be discovered in bodies long after death ; it is not changed by slow putrefaction under a limited access of air; tlie salts of nicotia resist longer than the pure base; but when a body putrefies at a higher temperature, and with free exposure to air —circumstances which favour the volatilization and change of the base—then even the analytical process of Stas gives only negative results. Tayloe describes at length the post-mortem appearances of, and the processes adopted by liim for discovering nicotia in, the organs of a young man who had destroyed himself by that poison. The nicotia was detected by distilling, with caustic potash, an etherial extract of one-half of the stomach, with a portion of its contents; also by the processes of Orfila and Stas. This last process yielded the best result. Taylor then describes the properties of nicotia, and its effects on animals, illustrated by an experiment upon a rabbit and subsequent analysis. The paper concludes with a review of the experiments and opinions of Claude Bernard upon the same subject. Taylor attributes the speedy action of nicotia to its effecting a rapid deoxidation of the blood, and a stagnation in the over-filled capiUaries. A case of suicide by nicotine occurred in August, 1858, in Loudon. As in former cases, death was very rapid. 15. Opium. Death from Laudanum taken by Mistake. (Pharm., Feb., 436) Two Deaths and Two Dangerous Intoxications by Syrup of Poppies and Laudanum respectively. (lb., Feb., 437, 438.) Poisoning by Laudanum. (lb., April, 528.) Suicide by Laudanum. (lb., Aug., 150.) Poisoning by Acetate of Morphia. (Gaz. Hop., Sept., 13.) Poisoning by Dover's Powder. (Pharm., Jan., 390.) The above accidents by laudanum or opium have been caused bv imstake, felonious intent, the neghgence of diaiggists, or the quacbng of ignorant mothers. They present no pecidiar features oi interest m a medico-legal point of view. In the last case, a yomig druggist took fifteen grains of acetate of morphia wrapped m a wafer, his stomach being full at the time Narcotism set m and probably suspended digestion, so that the greater part of the morphia was afterwards rejected tlirough the