IIEI'OIIT ON LEGAL JJEDICI.VL, ETC. (lb., 9, 4.) As linvyci's now and Iheu reproach medical praclitioiiers for judging forensic cases witli exaggerated humanity, Aimkivv v.n- deayours to show, by examples, that these reproaches are unfounded. The article on the definition of "mutilation" advises the legisla- ture to avoid this expression, because it is capable of many inter- pretations. BucHNER comes to the conclusion that those injuries are imme- diately fatal Mliich do not cause death by an intermediate agencv. This negative deliuitiou is criticised by Hoiouxx, who correctly defines, as immediately fatal, those injuries which, from their nature, are necessaiily fatal. The paper of Boecker contains remarks about legal and otlier definitions of the words forming its title. The essay in ' Friedreich' relates to diseases which may be consi- dered, or alleged to be, sufficient reasons, either for legally preventing marriage altogether, or for breaking a promise of marriage, or for dissohdng marriages abeady existing. Such diseases are stated to be epilepsy, deaf-dumbness, psychical diseases, female hermaphroditism, ]iarrow vagina, absence of vagina and womb, anomalies in the for- mation of the pelvis, mole-pregnancy, excessive sexual desire, and excessive age. Of these last two points, the natm-al legal standard is not indicated. The debates in the Prussian House of Deputies, relative to a bill on the law of divorce, caused Jessen to consider the medical grounds upon wliicli a dissolution of marriage might become requi- site, particularly in reference to mental disorders. He finds that most practical arguments are against any dissolution in these cases, but brings forward some few reasons for which a dissolution, under certain limited circmnstances, might be granted. SOMATIC INJURIES AND MANSLAUGHTER, INCLUDING IN- JURIES OF THE HEAD, ABDOMEN, SPINAL MARROW, ETC. Bliimlein.—Can any Legal Conclusion, relative to the intention of any person womiriing another, be drawn from the situation and natnre of the injury indicted? (Casper, i,^, i.) History of Critical Days. (Friedreich, 9, 2.) On Poisoned Woiuids (poisoned arms; gunsliot wounds; bites; cadaveric poison),