17 OSSEOUS SYSTEM. The twist is of i8o degrees in tlie terrestrial and aquatic mammalia; 90 degrees in birds and reptiles. The neck is tmsted 90 degrees in the mammalia. In order to compare the humerus with the femur, which is a straight bone, it is necessary to untwist it 180 degrees. This alone is sufficient to reduce the thoracic to the type of the pelvic member. He also compares the tibia, the pelvis, the shoulder, &c. Gktjber found the ossiculum tegmenti tympani seven times in six skulls ; in one of them on both sides. He also describes, as a frequent occurrence, a pons cuneiformis, and gives to it the name of the ossiculum tegmenti tympani cuneiforme. ScHWEGEL describes all the abnormal bones that came under liis notice during the three years that he acted as demonstrator in the Medical School at Prague. MuLLEB, in his researches on the development of bone, has con- firmed the statement made by Sharpey in 1845, regarding the manner in which osseous tissue is formed in cartilage. Nisbet, in 1736, said that bones were formed in two ways, some being formed in a membrane, others originating in cartilage, and that in the latter case the catilaginous tissue did not constitute a part of the bone, but was removed by absorption. Little attention was paid to the latter view, until Sharpey demonstrated, by histological investigation, that it was correct. Moreover, he pointed out that, although a portion of the cartilage is in the first instance ossifi.ed, yet it does not remain to constitute any part of the per- manent bone. The latter is, in fact, produced by the ossification of a membranous blastema, something like what occurs in the parietal bones of the head. Miiller has gone into the subject very fully, and traced the changes which occur in the temporary vascular canals of ossifying cartilage. He agrees with Sharpey in saying that bone-corpuscles are not calcified cartilage-cells. He believes, how- ever, that they are formed out of cells wliich are the descendants of the original cartilage-corpuscles. The paper concludes with some remarks on the condition of the bones in rickets. HuxLEY^s observations on the development of some parts of the skeleton of fishes were cliiefly made upon the stickleback {Gaste- rosteus leiurus). He first speaks of the development of the tail— giving a full account of the literature of the subject—and then that of the palato-pterygoid arc, and hyomandibular suspensorium, In speaking of the homologies of the bones of the fish's face, 2