102 llEPORT ON TlIK INSTITUTES OF MEDICINE. increased in the urine after—ist. Vegetable food, ad. Effervescing wines and bicarbonates of the alkalies, 3d. Salts of the vegetable acids. 4th. Highly nitrogenized food (Beneke and Bird). _5th. Constantly in cases of imperfect respiration—emphysema (Lehmann), In convalescence from severe diseases—typhus, &c. The chief cause of the presence of oxalates in the urine is the imperfect oxidation of uric acid. Ckuse compared the relative value of the "fermentation" and " Pehling's method" of quantitatively estimating sugar, and came to the conclusion that the one method is as good as the other, BuuECKE calls attention to the fact that nearly all urines from healthy men become slightly bro-\vn when boiled with potash. Also, that when the sulphate of copper and potash test is employed, there is in general a slight browning, thereby indicatmg the presence of a small quantity of sugar. Bruecke says that the existence of sugar in healthy urine can be put beyond a doubt by adding to every 10 c.c. of urine 54 c.c. of strong alcohol, filtering, and adding to the filtrate a Little spirit made slightly alkaline with potash. After standing twenty-four hours, when the liquid is decanted, the bottom and sides of the glass will be found covered with crystals. These crystals, on being dissolved iu water and tested, will be found to be grape-sugar. LowENTHAL proposcs the use of a salt of iron instead of one of copper, as being a more delicate test for the detection of sugar. It has no advantage over copper, however, and it has disadvantages which the copper does not possess. The object of Viereodt's paper seems to be to correct some remarks made by Eadicke on Kaupp's researches upon the effect of salt on the constituents of the urine. Sick studied upon himself the variations in the amount of phos- phoric acid in the m-ine. He took different quantities of phosphate of soda in the twenty-four hours, and afterwards examined the xtrine, in order to see if all the salt taken reappeared in the urine; and in what form. He began by taking one gramme, and gradually increased the dose to three grammes. The result of the experiment led him to believe that all the phosphoric acid taken is excreted by the urine, and in the same form ; that is to say, it does not appear in the urine as an earthy, but as an alkaline, phosphate. Hammond's experiments were also made upon liimself. He divided the day into three parts. The first from 7 a,m. to i p.m,;