IIEPOUT ON SUllGERY. attracts the notice of the patient, and gives a fallacious idea that they are snperlicial. Ill illustration of this, a case is related of an apparently super- ficial cyst in the neck, an incision into which was followed by such profuse lucinorrhage that a temporary ligature was placed on the common carotid artery. This did not arrest the bleeding that came fi'oin a large vessel running forward from the back of the cyst, which overlaid the vertebras, to the upper angle of the wound. It M'as an offset from the vertebral artery, as large as a crow-tiuiU. Other cases of cysts in the thyroid gland are reported, wliich are all remarkable for the dangerous hsemorrliage which took place M'hen they were opened. Pitha recommends iodine injections. Thamhayn quotes from Werner a case of tliyroiditic suppui-ation, wliicli M-as treated by incision and terminated favorably, and one of large extravasation of blood in the thjToid region, which formed a prominent livid swelling on the right side of the neck. It burst, and blood freely oozed away. The opening was enlarged, and a quantity of black, broken coagiilum was removed; the cavity granulated and liealed. Prom the direction whicli a probe took, it must have been situated witliin the substance of the right lobe of the gland. A case of parenchymatous broncliocele, in which Werner tried to extirpate the tumoui-, wliich reached from the cliin to the sternum, ended fatally. The attempt was abandoned after having lasted an hour and a quarter. The bleeding was very free; twenty-four ligatures were used. Gangrene set in, and death fol- lowed on the twelfth day. Schuli recommends the injection of cystic broncliocele with iodine. Chehus treated eleven cases of cystic bronchocele by free incision; he stitched the cyst to the edges of the external wound. The memoir contaius a collection of remarkable cases of cystic, cavernous, and coUoid tumours. The injection of cystic broncho- celes with iodine is certainly preferable to incision, wliich in all the reported cases was foUoM^ed by very profuse and dangerous hfemor- rhage. Diii'rn/s patient had a congenital cyst, reacliiug from the chin to the sternum, and outwards on both sides of the median line beneath the sterno-mastoid muscle. Its extirpation was difficult, on account of its connexion with the hyoid bone, the lar)-nx, and trachea. The cliild made a rapid recovery. "Nelaton removed a fibro-fatty tumour, which reached fi-om the