53 REPORT ON THE INSTITUTES OP MEDICINE. Manz.—Anatomisch-physiologische Untersuchungan iiber die Accomodation de« Fischauges. [On the Accommodation of the Eyes of Fish.] 8vo. Freiburg i. Breisg., 1858. Lubimoff.—l^echerches sur la grandeur apparante des objets. [On the Apparent size of OI)jects.] Compt. Rend., vol. xlvii, 1858. No. j, July, pp. 24—27. Annales de Chimie, troisieme scrie, vol. liv, pp. 13—28. Seguin.—Notes sur les couleurs accidentales. [On Accidental Colours.] Compt. Kendus, vol. xlvii, 1858, No. 5, August, pp. 158—200. Chevreul.—Notes sur quelques experiences de contraste siraultanee de couleur. [On the Contrasts of Colours.] The same, No. 5, Aout, pp. 196—198. (Already known.—Valentin.) Baumgartner.—Ein Fall ungleichzeitiger Wiederkehr des Sehvermiigens fur verschiedene Farben. [On a Case in which one Eye regained the Power of distinguishing Colours before the other.] Sitzungsber. d. Wien. Akad., 1858, vol. xxviii, pp. 2571 258. Weicker.—Dc nonnulHs coloribus complementariis quales singulis hominibus apparent. [Some Remarks on the Complementary Colours.] 8vo. Lipsix, 1857. (Compilation.—Valentin.) Martini.—Sur les effets produits sur la vision par la Santonine. [On the Effect of Santonine on the Vision.] Gaz. Hebdom., 1858, No. 39, p. 593- Mialhe.—Sur la Santonine. [On the Effect of Santonine on the Vision.] Monit. des Hopit., No. 109, p. 869. Volkmann.—Ueber irradiation. [On Irradiation.] Bericht der Sachs. Geselkch. d. Wissensch. zu Leipzig, 1858, pp. 129—148. Herschel's remarks on colour-blindness originated in a report on Mr. Pole's paper. He says lie considers Pole's communication exceedingly valuable, because it is a clear and consecutive account of the affection by one suffering from it, and who is in possession of a knowledge of all that has been written on the subject by others, and who, moreover, from general education and habits of mind, is m a position to discuss his own case scientifically. Pole refers all liis perceptions of colour to tliree primary or elementary sensations, these may be red, blue, and yeUow, as Mayer proposed, or red, green, and violet, as suggested by Dr. Young. It is as necessary to distinguish between our sensations of colour as it is to distinguish between bitterness, sweetness, sourness, &c. In looking at green Pole does not recognise the sensation either of blue or yellow, but something suiffeneris. Maxwell has lately announced his iuabihty to form green by the combination of blue and yellow. The union on the retina of the yeUowest yeUow and the bluest blue, in such propor- tions that neither shall be in excess, so as to tinge the resultmg light either yeUow or blue, is not green, hut white. Herschel, from numerous facts, concludes—1st. That in no case can the sensation of green be produced by the joint action on the