SECRETORY SYSTEM. 255 Johnson—Case of Encephaloid Cancer affecting a Testicle that had been retained within the Cavity of the Abdomen. Med.-Cliir. Trans., 1859, vol. xlii, p. 15. Johnson.—On the Forms and Stages of Bright's Disease of the Kidneys, with especial reference to Diagnosis and Prognosis. lb., p. 153. Martini.—Die extirpation der Milz am Menschen. [Extirpation of the Spleen in the Human Subject.—Report.] Schmidt's Jahrb., 1859, vol. loi, pp. 228— 236. Pavy.—On certain Points connected with Diabetes. Brit. Med. Jour., Dec ivth 1859. Fuller.—On certain Points connected with the Treatment of Renal Anasarca. Med. Times and Gaz., Dec. loth, 1859. Harris.—Report of a Case of M. Brightii, with Amyloid Degeneration of the Mal- pighian Bodies. Lancet, Dec. 17th and 24th, 1859. Moissenet.—On Puncture of Hydatid Cysts of the Liver with the Capillarv Trocar. Brit, and For. Med.-Chir. Rev., July, 1859, P- 264. A case of complete disorganization of botli supra-renal capsules, \^ithout discoloration of the skin, is recorded by Davey. A remarkable case is recorded by Kinn, in wliich a copious ascitic accumiUation was removed in twenty-foui- hours by a serous flow from the nipples. This came on spontaneously. The ascites had succeeded a tj^ihoid fever, and paracentesis had been once performed. Jacksox finds oxide of zinc, in five- to seven-grain doses, very eftcient in profuse sweating, whether from phthisis, rheumatism or intermittent fever. ' Hewson relates tliat among 293 boys in the Philadelphia House of Refuge no less than 78 had nocturnal incontinence of m-ine' Ul these, 63 remamed continuously under observation, 20 hems whites, and 34 negroes; and as the total number of wliites and blacks was respectively aoj and 91, the affection was more than t«ice as prevalent among the blacks than the whites. Bromide of potassium was fii-st tried and cured 9. l^nct. Ferri Muriat. and cantharides w^ere both ineffectual. Belladonna, aided by aperient the cold douches, drv sum-)pr inrl t,^rv,o ^+1 j 'i^cijuius, the rest. P^'^^^'^t^ons, cured Hammond reports the result of some expermients made with reference to the influence of squills, juniper, digitalis, and okW cum, over the quantity of the urine, its specific gravity and th amount of its solid organic and inorganic colistituents. ThT Vo^ n performed upon healthy adult males. The following table si 0 the averages of each series of investigations.