REPORT ON LEGAL MEDICINE, ETC. 444 agency of an emetic. The patient tasted the morphia'in the vomited matters. He perfectly recovered. A woman was found dead : the verdict of the coroner's jury waa "that she took poison (Dover's powder) by mistake, and that she obtained it at some institution or shop, but there was not sufficient evidence to identify the person or persons who supplied her." 16. Oxalic Acid. Rul-Ogez.—Poisoning by Oxalic Acid. (Gaz. Hop., 1858, 137.) Webb.—Case of Poisoning by Binoxalate of Potash. (Med. Times, 2, 378.) A healthy woman, set. 49, took about half an ounce of oxalic acid, which a druggist had given her instead of cream of tartar. She died, after a quarter of an hour, with pain in the stomach, colic, diarrhoeaj vomiting, convulsions, and stertorous breatliing. A man, set. 40, took by mistake a quarter of a teaspoonful of the binoxalate of potash. Two hours afterwards he was attacked with vomiting, burning in the throat, and heat in the chest and sto- mach. Afterwards, there were muscular Aveakness, cramps, and head affection. The vomiting continued for several days, although so small a dose only had been taken. 17. FliospJionis. Casper.—The Chemical Criterion in Cases of Poisoning. Poisoning by Phosphorus. (Superarbiti ium, &c.) (Casper, 14, 2.) Kletzinsky.—On the Analysis for Phosphorns, in its Diagnostic and Forensic Relations. (Oesterr., 4, 16.) Lassaigne.—Chemical Observations made upon the Occasion of an Attempt at Poisoning by a Preparation containing Phosphorus. (Ann. d'Hyg., April, 1858, 18.) Birkner.—Some Observations on the Poisoning of Animals with Phosphorus, in relation to recognising it in the dead body. (Casper, 14, i.) Lewinsky.—Case of Acute Poisoning by Phosphorus. (Wien Aerzt., 1,52.) In a case of poisoning, apparently by phosphorus, this poison could not be found in the body by chemical analysis. Nevertheless, Caspeii and liis colleagues in the " deputation " assumed that death was due to phospliorus, upon the basis of the symptoms during bfe, the post-mortem appearances, and certain signs upon the articles of food, of which the deceased had partaken. IvLEXZiNSKY bclicves that, in real cases of poisoning by phospho-