119 GENERATION AND DEVELOPMENT. liave the bright-reel spots, and the black colour shaded downwards in bars, diagnostic of the male. In cross-breeds of birds, the colom-s are generally derived from the cock bird. The feathers of the feet of grouse disappear when the pheasant is the male parent. The ram, again, gives the quality of the wool to the sheep, and is selected for tliis purpose. Black rams are uniformly rejected for breeding, because of the transmission of their colour. The male wolf and bitch have progeny with colour, ears, and tail, like the father. The dog and she-wolf yield offspring with slouch ears and pied colour. A black-and-white sow, covered by a white boar, has a white litter. The hybrids of the male ass and mare resemble the ass in colour and coarseness of the hair, while the hinny by the stallion has the fine skin of the horse. The famous chesnut mare of the Earl of Morton, covered by a wild African ass, gave birth to a hybrid with black bars on the legs and shoulders. And although only covered once by the quagga, had successively three foals, all of wliich had unequivocal skin-marks derived from the quagga. Sir Gore Ousel/s mare, covered by a zebra, gave birth to a striped zebra. There are also curious examples known in the human race of the influence of a male extending to several generations, even when the female is impregnated by another male. Spencee aims to show that the changes undergone in the evolu- tion of a homogeneous germ into a heterogeneous organism are interpretable as consequences of two universal dynamic laws—[a) that every homogeneous aggregation is in unstable equiUbrium, because its different parts are differently exposed to incident forces, and (i) that every force produces more than one change; (c) that the forms of all organisms are dependent on their relations to inci- dent forces. Thus it is found—i. That when the conditions are alike in all directions—either constantly, as in the Gregarina, or on the average of successive instants, as in the Folvox, or on the average of many individuals, as in the Protococci—there we have symmetry of tlu-ee dimensions, or spherical symmetry. 2. That where the conditions are ahke on all sides of one axis, but different in line of tliis axis—either constantly, as in the mushroom and in vertically growing plants and trees, in peltate leaves, and terminal flowers; or on the average of many successive instants, as in many echmoderms; or on the average of many individuals, as in the irre- gularly placed flowers and in zoophytes—there we have symmetry of two dimensions, radial or circular symmetry. 3. That wliere the