200 REPORT ON PRACTICAL MEDICINE. (logeneratiou. In two other cases death was preceded by gastric disorder, vomiting of blood, and cerebral symptoms. KtiiiNE has studied carefully the pathology of icterus. He does not adopt the view of Prerichs amd Stadeler, that the biliary acids are changed in the blood into bile-pigment, but shows that blood- pigment is changed into bile-pigment under tlie influence of tlie biliary acids. By adopting the method of Hoppe, he was able to determine constantly the presence of the biliary acids in the urine of persons suffering under icterus, as well as in that of dogs whose biliary ducts had been tied. When dog's bile, or solution of the biliary acids was injected into a vein, bile-pigment and the salts were detected in the urine. Even in large quantities of healthy urine no biliary acids could be found. EosENSTEiN has studied the cetiology of parench}anatous nephritis in 162 individuals, of whom 85 were male, 77 female. The ma- jority of cases occurred between the twentieth and fiftieth years of life, viz., 100 out of the whole number. The most frequent cause of the disease was found to be intermittent fever—\i was noted m 23 per cent. In some of the cases dropsy set in as soon as the febrile paroxysms ceased, and preceded the occurrence of albumi- nuria. This di-opsy and the foi-mation of splenic tiunour, by increasing the watery constituent of the blood, gave a further im- pulse to the renal disease. • • .1 x Bektulus states, as the result of Ids experience of hepatitis, that it is principaUy induced by malaria and alcohoUc or other irritating ingesta. Persons who live temperately are much less liable to tlie disease than those who cannot forbear stimulants. Alkaline waters, as those of Vichy, he thinks, are the best remedial means. A case is recorded by Eiboli, in which the pancreas was found, after death, destroyed by suppuration. The patient was a female ^t a, who had sufl-ered with symptoms of the disease more than tweiSv years. These consisted in continuous fever, with evemng exacerbation, vomiting of saHvary fluid, deep-seated pain sublet eric tineeing of the skin, stools wliitish, non-offensive, sabva-like, some- times mucous, in salivation, lieartbiu-n, bui-ning tliirst, and emacia- Behrend records a severe case of irritable bladder, in which, after the failure of other remedies, extract of beUadonna adnnm ■ tered in increasing doses tUl the specific symptoms were fully de.e- loped, procured an almost complete and a permanent cure.