DISEASES AFl'ECTING THE GENERAL SYSTEM. 169 were those of typhoid fever, with the usual iutestiual ulcerations, lu cases pro\aug fatal very early, nothing was observed beyond hypersemia of the brain and lungs, some enlargement of the spleen, and a very thinly fluid condition of the blood. In the matter of treatment, nothing of particular interest is mentioned, except that quinine was very often administered in fidl doses (3i in twenty-four liours) in severe typhus, and even in cases of high reaction. The remedy thd not fulfil all the expectations that had been formed, but never- theless some of the results, especially in cases of severe cerebral symptoms, were so surprising as to encourage strongly further trials of it in similar cases. The disease is estimated to have affected 3 per cent, of the whole population (450,890 souls), and the mortality amounted to 25 per cent, of the whole. The districts selected by cholera and typhus were not closely identical. A detailed account is given of the cholera epidemic of 1855. All the observations go to make the contagiousness of the disease very doubtful. An experiment is related, proving that even in the advanced stage of choleraic collapse absorption of ingesta still takes place. In several fatal cases, shortly before death, small doses of Potass. lodid. were given, which was subsequently detected in the blood. Under the head of rheumatism and gout, it is mentioned tliat some cases were observed which showed at first aU the symp- toms of acute or chronic rheumatism, and did not betray their essen- tially different nature till a later period. Ice locally, tincture of bryony, and aconite, seem to be the remedies employed in the acute dis- ease. In cases of pulmonary tuberculosis, enlargement of the cer- vical glands was always observed. [The contrary has been the experience of the Brompton Hospital.—Ed.] Nimierous cases were admitted of ague and aguish cachexia, a large number being work- men employed on the railroad in Hungary, They were alf higldy cachectic, and suffered from all kinds of dropsy. These were placed in a separate establishment, and it was observed that whole series of paroxysms came on periodically, following the increasing phase of the moon. The cycles ended at full moon, after having lasted from eio-lit to twelve days. Each cycle mostly consisted of three, five, or seven pa- roxysms, the smaller number occurring in the tertian, the larger in the ([uotidian type. The first attacks in a cycle were very difiicidt to sup press by medicine; the latter yielded readily. In one case, whizzing was observed m all the arteries accessible to touch on the fever days' and on tliosc only. Throe times a systolic cnrcbac murmur was noticed