370 RliPOllT ON MIDWIFERY, ETC. Ollivieii recommends the employment of leeches to reduce tlie bulk of the organ, in preference to the employment of pessaries, for prolapsus uteri. BoNOEXiEN, with the same view, recommends ergot, galbanum, and inunction. NouRSE relates a case cm-ed by weai-ing a pad, bandage, and tannic-acid suppositories. Gaillaud reports a case of cure by cauterization of the posterior wall of the vagina by the hot iron, at intervals of one to two months. Grea-s^es and Eouth record cases of cure of prolapsus uteri by plastic operations. Dillon Kelly records a case of retroversion of the uterus recur^ ring after two years. The tumour produced prolapsus of the pos- terior wall of the vagina. Eeduction was easily effected. ViRCHOW, in explaining the tendency to retroflexion, calls atten- tion to certain anatomical facts; the extension of the recto-uterme pouch lower down than is usually supposed, and the adhesion of the cervix anteriorly to the neck of the bladder. Retroflexion very frequently follows childbirth. He does not find that relaxation of the uterus is specially present in such cases, on the contrary, often hardness and hypertrophy. The natural movements of the uterus about the bladder produce a certain amount of bending forwards of the fundus, easily increased by undue fulness of the rectum. Peritonitis is a frequent cause of flexions, and congenital shortness of the ligaments, over-distension of the bladder, long retention of its contents, have also an influence of the same cha- racter. EoKiTANSKY agrees with Yirchow on three points, viz., as to the internal os uteri being generaUy the seat of the flexure, as to retroflexions occurring more fi-equently after the puerperal state, and as to anteflexions being more fi'equently found m young women or those who have not had children. Eokitansky thinks, however, that at the seat of the flexion there is a real primary atrophy of the sub stsucc In the case of chronic inversion recorded by Teale, the inversion was partial, and had existed for two years and a half. The recum- bent position, cliloroform, pressure by the air-pessary and hand, formed the elements of the treatment. In West's case the inver- sion was also not complete, the sound being admitted to the extent of half an inch. Efforts made by mampulation and the