RESPIRATION. 63 gutta-percha box, with chambers and ceUs, containing caustic potash and offering a superficies of 700 inches, and lastly, a second desiccato^ to retain the vapour which the expired air had carried off from the potash box. A smaU mask is worn to prevent any air passing into the lungs without first passing through the spirometer. The amount of carbonic acid expired in the twenty-four hours varied from an average of 24-274 ounces in Smith, to 16-43 ounces in Dr Frankland. The quantity evolved in sleep was 4-88 and 4-00 grams per minute, and 6-i grains at different times of the night The whole quantity evolved in the six hours of the night the author estimates at 1950 grains. Hence the total quantity of carbon evolved m the twenty-four hours, at rest, was, in Smith Tiaa ounces ' ' The quantity of an- inspired in the working-day varied from kSo cubic inches per minute in himseK, to 365 cubic inches in Dr. Trankland. The rate of respiration varied in different seasons as well as m difi-erent persons. The depth of inspiration from qo cubic mches to 39-5 cubic inches. The respirations were to the piJsations as 1 to 4-63 in the youngest, and as i to 573 in the oldest. One half of the product of the respirations into the pulsations gave nearly the number of cubic inches of air inspired in some of the persons, and the proportion of the carbonic acid to the air inspired by them varied from as i grain to 547 cubic inches to as i grain to 58 cubic inches. The variation in the carbonic acid evolved in the workmg-day gave an average maximum of 10-43, and minimum of 6 74 grams per minute The quantity increased after a meal, and de reased from each meal, so that the minima were nearly the same ofa wTr^' ^^'i The effect of a fast of forty hours, with only a breakfast meal, was to reduce with food, to render the quantity nearly uniform throughout the day, with a little increase at the hours when food had usul b en taken and to cause the secretions to become alkaline. The variations from day to day were shown to be connected Mdth the reEn of waste and supply on the previous day and ni.ht so that wlfl f health, good night-rest and sufficientLd, thet« ^^^^^^^^^^^ was considerable on the foUowinj; morning T. V ever-acting cause of variation-r dTmLutfon .n X T "J St^'wm" '-^'-rfre rose:"Xrlr:~ effect. Walking at two nule, per hour induced an exhaMon of