DIGESTIVE SYSTEM. 247 raw, scraped beef, to tlie exclusion of all other medicatiou, is a true speciiic iu the destructive diarrlicea which affects weaned childi-en. Beau, having obtained marked success in the treatment of puer- peral peritonitis by means of full doses of quinine, has been . encouraged to apply the same medication to idiopathic peritonitis. He has obtained such results as convince him of the superiority of this proceeding to the former practice of bleeding and mercmializa- tion. The able reporter of Beau's practice relates his surprise at witnessing for the first time a genuine case of idiopathic peritonitis treated and cured by quinine, gr. x, 8vis horis, continued for about ten days, to the exclusion of all other medication except a blister to the most tender part of the abdomen, and an emetic at the outset, with a purgative enema. LiLJEBORN records a case of perforating ulcer iu the duodenum which caused repeated hsematemesis, at last proving fatal. An artery was found eroded by the ulcer, as well as the pancreatic duct. 'No symptoms were present during life except the heemorrhage. Easton records a case of obstruction of the bowels, wliich con- tmued five days and a half, and was accompanied by profuse sterco- raceous vomiting, prostration, and intense abdominal pain, but which terminated favorably by copious alvine evacuations, after which all unfavorable symptoms disappeared. The disease set in with severe pam in the abdomen, accompanied by nausea and vomiting, the patient having been previously in perfect health. The abdomen became hard and tense, but was never tympanitic. An opiate enema, sulphate of magnesia, two tobacco enemala, and twelve doses of calcined magnesia and nitric acid, constituted the treatment employed. A sraaU quantity of ftecal matter was passed after the hrst tobacco enema, the final clearing out took place some hours (probably about eight or ten) after the second. Easton ascribes he obsti-uction of the bowel to the occurrence of spasmodic con- traction of Its muscular coat, and on this view the tobacco was pre- scribed. _ A very remarkable case is recorded by Cox, U.S., in wliich an intelhgent girl, eet. 12, died in about three days, apparently from impaction of the small intestine with lumbrici. The symptoms were an unnatural coolness or coldness of aU parts of the surface uncovered by clothing, and of the extremities, without any subiec- tive feehng of cold, extreme thirst, a frequent, quick, and exceed- "'gly small, feeble, thread-lilce pidse. She had little appetite for