REPORT ON TIIK INSTITUTES OV MliDICINE. 58 military music was being listened to. He noticed, however, that in these cases the blood-vessels became somewhat congested. Claudius made some original observations on the ear of the Cetacea, and came to the conclusion that the whale does not hear through the outer ear, the Eustachian tube, or the bones of the skull, but that the sound is communicated indirectly from the water to the air-filled tympanic cavity through the bones of the head. BuRDACii's paper contains a critical notice of the anatomical and physiological relations of the external ear. SMELLING AND TASTING. Klaatsch and Stich.—Ueber den Ort der GeschraacksTermittlung. [On the Locality of Taste.] Virchow's Arcliiv fiir PathoL Anatom., vol. xiv, 1858, pp. 225—243. Canst., vol. i, p. 102. Stich.—Ueber das Ekelgefiihl. [On Nausea.] Annalen der Charite Jahrgang VIII, Berlin, 1858, pp. 22—43. lb., vol. i, p. 102. Suineril.—Sur les organs des sens et en particulier de I'odorat, du goftt et de I'ouie dans les poissons. [On the Organs of Smelling, Tasting, and Hearing in Fish.] Compt. Rend., vol. xlvi, igsS, No. 19, pp. 867—879. Oehl.—Su'l nervo et su I'organo olfattorio. [Remarks on the Olfactory Organ and Nerve.] 8vo. Milano, 1858. (No abstract.) Beau.—Note sur les papilles de la langue. [On the Papillae of the Tongue.] Compt. Rend., voL xlvii, 1858, No. 16, pp. 612—614. Klaatsch and Stich made a number of experiments with the extract of quassia, a solution of white sugar, salt, and tartaric acid, in order to ascertain the exact seat of taste. The solutions were applied to different parts of the mouth by means of a fine hair- pencil. They found the soft palate; but neither the uvula nor tonsils, sensible to taste. The trachea was equally insensible. This experiment was made on a patient with a " cut throat." Klaatsch and Stich confirm the opinion of old writers, that certain substances are only tasted in particular spots. DuMERiL thinks that fish possess the sense of taste, but only by means of their organs of smell. Beau's paper on the papillae of the tongue contains notliing new of any interest. FEELING. Oele —On Diphaemetric Compass. Beale's Archiv. of Medicine, No. 4, 1859. Battye.—On a Sixth Sense. Edin. Month. Med. Journ., 1859, pp. 7^3 and 992.