REPORT ON SURGERY. 332 and causes of conti-actioiis of joints. His analysis of the complicated contractions of the tarsus is based on the assumption of two joints, with independent motions and separate axes between the leg and the foot. Of these—the upper one, called by him the " spring joint/' has flexion and extension; and the lower one, the "foot joint," abduction and adduction. The contractions are gi'ouped in three series :— I.—Contractions of the Spring Joint. I. Pes fexus.—The foot is kept in a pointed position chiefly by the approximation of the bones of the leg, by reason of the decreas- ing breadth posteriorly of the trochlear surface of the astragalus, Avhicli become fixed by fibrous adhesions. The posterior portion of the trochlea, wedged between the bones, forms an angle with the anterior portion which projects beyond the bones of the leg, and gradually loses the character of an articidar surface, and becomes adherent to the capsule. 3. Pes extensus.—The heels point downwards, the toes upwards. A lateral displacement of the astragalus, upon which common club- foot depends (according to Cruveilhier and Stromeyer), does not occur. II.—Contractions of the Foot Joint.—(Calcaneo-astragaloid.) I. Pes adductus.—The toes are turned inwards; the inner border of the foot looks upwards, the outer downwards. In excessive adduc- tion, the astragalus presses on the Sustentaculum Tali, and causes its absorption; a defect which Henke has found in all preparations of club-foot. The anterior articular surface of the astragalus eu- laro-es in the inner side, and becomes impressed so as to form an obtuse angle with the neck of the bone. Tliis change is brought about by the inward displacement of the scaphoid bone. 3. Pes akluciiis.—The most important change lies in a subluxa- tion of the scaphoid upon the astragalus. The inner border of the foot looks downwards, the outer upwards. The foot is pointed out- wards and somewhat upwards. 3. Pes injlexus.—ka. excessive arcliing of the sole of the foot. 4. Pes recursns.—T\\Q inner border of the foot becomes flat, the outer convex. The plantar muscles are too weak to support the weight of the body.