285 CHEST-WOUNDS. chin to the sternum, and from the middle line outwards on the right side of the neck to the spines of the vertebra). Its extir- pation was efPected with small loss of blood. The external and internal jugular veins, the carotid and subclavian arteries, were exposed in the dissection. Eeegussox's patient, a young M^oman, had had, during fifteen years, a progressive enlargement of the tliyroid gland, which formed a considerable swelling in front of the neck. The chief part of it consisted of a large fluctuating cyst. This was punc- tured, and then slit up. Several ounces of dirty-brown serum escaped. The cyst was filled with lint, but free oozing from the interior continued for some time. Tergusson thought that the tendency to bleeding from the inner surface of these cysts renders them unfit for injection with iodine. CHEST-WOUNDS. Jackson,-—Case of Gunshot Wound of the Heart, &c., where the patient survived three hours and a half. Lancet, Nov. 19th, 1859. Johnson.—Laceration of the Lung without Fracture of the Ribs. Brit. Med. Journ., March 5th, 1859. Jackson relates, that the man, whilst sitting at his door, was shot, November 3d, 1856, at a quarter before eight o'clock p.m., with a pistol, fired by a person in front of him, at several paces' distance. Two bullets struck the centre of liis sternum; one pierced the bone, and the other glanced ofi". The hfemorrhage was inconsiderable. There was great dyspncea, and much pain in the loins and about the bladder, with an intense desire to pass urine. He died at a quai-ter past eleven o'clock p.m., three and a half hours after the injury. The ball which pierced the sternum had traversed the pericardium, struck the apex of the heart, and made a liole in the right ventricle, through which the tip of the little finger could be passed. The pericardium was nearly fidl of clotted blood and serum. The ball afterwards passed through the diapliragm, behmd the stomach, and lodged loosely in the recto-vesical poucli of the peritoneum, having in its course bruised the intestines in several places without perforating them. The bullet which glanced off the sternum was traced for some distance between the abdo- minal muscles, but had not penetrated the cavity.