DISEASES OF CHILDREN. 413 JIl'tchixsox gives a tabulated account of forty-four cases of favus^ collected from various sources, the sporules and tlialli of a fungus being in all cases present. He believes that the fungus (tlie Ac/iorion Sc/ionleinii) develops itself within the hair-follicles. The disease is very inveterate, occurs only amongst the poorer {i. e. uncleanly) classes; it is very rare, occurs for the most part in per- sons of good health; may be inoculated, but does not spread readily, and the general health is unaffected by it. After remarks on the differential diagnosis, the author states that the only treat- ment available is the employment of sulphui-, creosote, or mercury, combined with epilation of the parts affected. VII. DYSCRASIiE; TUMOTJES. Tanner.—A. case of Infantile Syphilis. Obstet. Trans., vol. i, p. 132. O'DonOVan,—Case of Infantile Sj'philis. Dublin Qiiar. Journ.,May, 1859, 3°^. Diday.—A Treatise on Syphilis in New-born Children at the Breast. Translated from the French by G. Whitley, M.D. New Syd. Soc., 1859. pp. 272. rriedingcr, Mayer, "nd Zeisl.—Die Syphillden im Kindesalter. [Syphilis in Children.] Jalirb. f. Kinderheilk., 1858, part i. (Canst., iv, 456.) Bouchut.—De la fievre interniittente chez les enfanls. Gaz. des Hop., 1858, No. 56. [Intermittent Fever in Childhood.] (Canst., iv, 459.) BartlOt.—Qiielques considerations sur la fievre typhoide en general, &c. Paris, 1858. (Canst., iv, 459.) Perrin.—Beobachtungen iiber der Scrophelkrankheit. Journ. f. Kinderk., 1858, I, 2. [On Scrofula.] (Canst., iv, 459.) Lotzbeck.—Die angeborenen Geschwiilste der hinteren Kreuzgegend. Miinchen, 1858. (Canst., iv, 459.) Tanner relates the case of a child who died suddenly about six weeks after birth, having been just before treated, apparently sue cessfnlly, for syphilis derived from the parents. O'DoNOVAN relates a case of syphiHs in an infant, the parents of which had had no secondary symptoms, but the father had suffered from " gonorrhoea." The first or ^etiological part of the treatise of Diday, now trans- lated and published by the 'New Sydenham Societv, is devoted to studying the mechanism of the development of the disease, its different origins, and the respective part played by each of them m Its ulterior evolution. In the second or semeiological part, we find a description of the various forms and no less variable pro- gress of the disease. The third part, having reference to prognosis,