DISEASES AFFECTING THE GENERAL SYSTEM. 155 111 1856 there were 1,063 cases of typlms j in 1858 oiily 15. The average of typhoid for ten years is 183; in 1858 it was 180. Several commimications are made respecting syphHisation by Pleischl, Michaelis, Danielsen, and Stenbeug. The latter, from careful, unbiassed observation of tliree cases on whom he tried it, arrives at the following conclusions, (i.) In repeated inoculations of an individual with syphilitic pus, the chancrous sores which are produced gradually diminish in size, until at last pus, which shows itseK fully capable of inoculating others, comes to have no effect upon the recipient. The time necessary to obtain this immunity varies according to idiosyncrasy and the mode of syphilization. (3.) Syphilitic sjTnptoms already present vanish during syphilisation, and the inocvdated chancres heal without further treatment. (3.) Syphi- lisation has no injurious influence on the general health; on the contrary, it improves during the process. Panum has performed a series of highly interesting experiments with the view of elucidating the subject of putrid or septic infection. The details are far too copious for our Hmits, but we subjoin the principal conclusions, (i.) The putrid poison is fixed, not volatile. (3.) It is not destroyed by boihng and evaporation, even if the boil- ing be continued ten hom-s, and the evaporation be carried to com- plete di-yness. (3.) It is insoluble in absolute alcohol, but soluble in water, and is contained in the vvatery extract of the dried putrid substance. (4.) The albuminoid substances often contained in putrid fluids are not in and of themselves poisonous, but condense the poison on their surface, so that it may be removed from the latter by washing. (5.) The putrid poison, as respects its intensity, can only be compared with snake-poison, woorari, and vegetable alkaloids, iiiasmuclias 13 milligrammes of it (-184 grains) are almost sufiicient lo kill a dog. Clauk, of the Bengal Medical Service, highly recommends the use of selenite as a febrifuge (in place of quinine) and a general tonic. Tlic dose is 5—10 gi-ains for an adult, and i—3 for children every four lioui's. Apropos of two cases in which syphilis followed immediately on, or ratlier was blended witli, variola. Bambeugeu makes tlie follow- ing remarks :—"Tlie interest of these cases consists not so much in the circumstance of syphilitic subjects being attacked by variola, but rather in this, that under the eye of the observer the specific vario-