100 IIEPOIIT ON THE INSTITUTES OF MEDICINE. urinary water was also definitely increased, and this was quite independent of the quantity of lluid di-unk. M uch more water was drunk than was excreted. The author next relates the observations made upon the same patient when (piinine was given. A scruple taken before the lit, ami just as the temperature commenced to rise delayed the rise for an hour; but had no other effect on the tempera- ture on that day, and none on the urea, cliloride of sodium, and water. Another scruple given at night, after the fit, cured the patient as far as the subjective symptoms were concerned; but did not prevent the increase in the ui-ea and cliloride of sodium occurring at what would have been the fever hour. An effect first noticed by Eedenbocker. In the case of tertian ague almost similar results were obtained. The rapidity of the pulse closely corresponded with the temperature, [n addition to these cases of ague, the author subjoins one of hectic fever, occurring in a phthisical patient under the care of Dr. "Walslie. The subjective phenomena were similar to those of ague, there being a cold, hot, and sweating stage. The temperature fol- lowed the same rules as in ague, and there was also an increase in the ui-ea and cUoride of sodium during the cold and hot stages. There was this difference, however; the urea fell before the rise in the temperature commenced, and increased less after it than in ague. Neubauer and Vogel's work on the uiine is highly thought of in Germany. The tliird edition is much improved; it includes all tlie newest researches, and a chapter on the chemical analysis of urinary calculi. LiEBiG obtained fi-om the urine of a dog that had been, durmg a length of time, fed solely upon meat a large quantity of creatine. The urine, mixed with milk of lime, had stood nearly six weeks, and, as is known, under these circumstances all the creatinine must have become changed into creatine. The same urine, when fresh, yielded only creatinine. The dog, when fed on fat, passed cynuric acid in the urine. The formula of this acid is CifiNH705. ScHiFF says the best test for uric acid is fresMy precipitated car- bonate of silver, a little of which mil detect i-47,5ooth grm. of uric acid by the gray colour wliich it forms. Von Babo and Meissner, repeat Leconte and Boimet's statement, that uric acid in healthy lu-ine reduces the oxide of copper. Viallwachs' and Weissmann's papers are prize essays. Although their researches on the origin of hippuric acid in the urnie of