303 URETHRA. Heney removed a stone impacted in tlie membranous i)ortion of the lu-ethra, producing retention of urine, through an incision betAveen tlie scrotum and anus. It was pyramidal, and about the size of a bean, and had polished facets. Tour other stones, of similar shape and size, were extracted from the bladder tlu-ough the same opening. Williamson relates a case of gonorrhoea with abscesses in perineo communicating with the urethra; urinary iistula?. He performed the external section; perfect recovery ensued. Wobmald's patient, an emaciated child, nine years old, was brought to the out-patient room, complaining of pain in the lower part of the belly. Tlu-ee days afterwards the bladder was found to be distended; there was some dribbling of urine, and a circumscribed extravasation into the perinajum. Tliis M-as at once incised, and the bladder was emptied with a catheter; no obstruction of the urethra was encountered. The child gradually fell away, and died in three weeks. Both kidneys were found to be totally disorganized by tuberculous deposit. The ureters were filled with tuberculous matter, and the prostate riddled with tubercu- lous abscesses. In front of the bulb an abscess, from tubercle beneath the mucous membrane of the uretlu-a, had burst and given rise to the extravasation. The lungs and mesenteric glands con-" tained large deposits of tubercle, Demaequay's patient, twenty-five years old, had complete division of the uretlu-a, in consequence of a contusion of the perineeum and subsequent suppuration. The ends of the divided canal were two fingers' breadth apart. No instrument could be passed into the bladder. Demarquay made a curved incision across the perinteum, as in the bilateral operation for stone, and cut through the tissues' layer by layer, till he reached the spot where the end of the canal ought to be; he then drew downwards the anterior wall of tlie rectum and found the opening by desiring the patient to micturate He now passed a small, flexible bougie tlu-ough it into the bladder and pushed its anterior extremity through the front part of tlie urethra. Over this bougie he slipped a large catheter into the bladder. Four months afterwards the cure was perfect. Bloxdeau's case, a boy, nine years old, got retention of urine from a fall upon the pennajum, wliich was relieved by puncturino- the bladder above the pubis. Guersant passed a catheter through the abdominal fistula into the bladder, and so along the posterfor