PARACENTESIS, AND INJURIES OF THE BLADDER. 299 Tatum—Stricture and Enlarged Prostate, and Puncture of the Bladder from the Rectum. Brit. Med. Journ., March sth, 1859. Gillespie.—A Case of Rupture of the Urinary Bladder. Edinb. Med. Journ., March, 1829. Cusack.—A Case of Injury of the Urinary Bladder. Dub. Hosp. Gaz., July isth, 1859. Coote's case is interesting, on account of the youth, of the patient, a boy, set. 8, and the treatment, which consisted in an incision upon a grooved staff tlu-ough the prostate into the bladder, just as in the lateral operation of lithotomy. The boy recovered, but subsequently applied with stricture. Paget reports three successful cases of puncture of the bladder above the pubes. In twenty-five cases Paget had never seen any bad result, no urinous infiltration, suppuration, nor inflamma- tion. "Without previous incision of the integument, &c., he thrusts a well-curved trocar, half an inch or an inch above the pubes, at once into the bladder, the point of the instrument being directed upwards towards the lumbar vertebrae. Holt tapped the bladder on account of an impermeable stricture; perineal section had failed. Meeciee narrates a case in winch a prostatic valvule had been repeatedly incised, so that the use of a catheter was no longer necessary. Unfortunately the after-treatment was omitted, and a year and a half afterwards the old symptoms retui-ned; they were greatly aggravated by inappropriate treatment. Phlegmonous in- flammation and suppuration took place in the scrotum, and castra- tion of the left testis became necessary. Pive years after liis fii-st operation Mercier completely overcame the retention by excision of the prostatic valvule. Death occurred some yeai-s after from diarrhoea. Two pedunculated tumours were found right and left of the opening of the ui-ethra; they had evidently originally formed a single one. The lateral lobes of the prostate were moderately enlarged. Tatum's patient, set. 70, was admitted with retention; his urine was dribbling away, but no catheter could be got into tlie bladder, which was tapped through the rectum. Tliis was repeated a second time, the canula having slipped out. He sank three days afterwards, The kidneys were extensively diseased. Gillespie's patient lived nine days after the iiijmy. A rent, one inch long, involving aU the coats of the bladder, was found in its posterior wall.