NERVOUS SYSTEM. 191 siin was above the horizon. It lias becu observed that uewlj^ ar- rived recruits are more prone to suffer than those M'ho are accUma- tised. In some cases the native soldiers have escaped altogether, wliile the Em-opean suffered severely; in other instances the Euro- pean officers have remained free, while powerful native troopers fell off their horses, vomiting, convidsed, cold, and covered with clammy sweat. The symptoms are universally vertigo and headache, with sense of burnijig in the eyes, a fidl and frequent pulse, vomiting, great heat of skin, and a devouring thirst, oppressed respiration, swollen face, blindness, sinking of the pulse, clammy sweat, ex- hausted nervous energy, faltering of the tongue, some convulsions, and speedy death." There is a close resemblance between the' phenomena of heat-apoplexy and those of the ardent fever of the hot Bengal season, the cliief difference being that the former disease proceeds at a much greater rate than the latter. Extreme congestion of the lungs is the most constant pathological alteration, the bram being also congested, but in a less degree. The slower the progress of the case, the greater is the degree of cerebral conges- tion; in rapidly fatal cases, there have been but slight traces of cerebral disease. The treatment may be shortlv summed up a^ timely bloodletting, general and local, with simdtaneous adminis- tration of diffusible stimuli and laudanum, cold applications to the head, pm-gatioii, antunonials, rest, darkness. If the time for blood- letting IS past, heat is to be applied to the extremities, sinapisms to the epigastric region, and cold affusion to the head and chest, witli warm aloetic purgatives and frictions to the surface. The means of preservation are abstinence from spirituous Hquors and from excess of animal food, protection of the neck and head, an open order of marchmg, and a flannel suit to change afterwards HAuyKY considers the question as to the comparative value of bloodletting and purging in the early stage of the acute hydroce- phalus and as to the extent to wliicli each of them should bo cai-ned. He assumes-(i) that the diagnosis of the diseasemay h most such cases be confidently made out witliiu a day or two fL s onse ; (.) that the disease is of the nature of aci inflamm on, either simple or associated with recent tubercrdar dep sTon he membranes of the brain; (3) that in a large proportion of nso may be readily cured if brought under suitable' tLtment w , t^^^Z:CT T' \ there is certam number, "and it may be an actual majority, of cases, which