4.52 REPORT ON LliGAL MEDICINE, ETC. podii, and fragments of oil silk obtained by rubbing; to each of which he gives a long commentary. ScHNKiDER, by frequent personal observation, convinced himself that a person accused of many thefts simulated epilepsy. ZiXK reports the case of a young man 17 years old, who was con- victed of ravishing and murdering a girl, act. 9 years. By dexterous simulation, he caused the jury to believe him of unsound mind, although the forensic physicians had given evidence to the contrary. VI. DOUBTEUL SEX; ILLEGAL AND UNNATURAL COITUS; ILLEGITIMATE PREGNANCY AND PARTURITION. Canella Constantino.—Medico-legal Question. (Italian, 8, 49 ) Goldberg.—Who's the Father? (Oesterr., 4, 52.) Maschka.—Two Cases of Stuprum. (Frag. 6.) Hauska.—On Ravishing and the Attempt at Ravishing. (Wiener, 1857, 49.) Tardieu—Medico-legal Studies upon Immoral Assaults (Ann. d'Hyg., July and October, 1857; 15th and 16th Jan., 1858, 18). Indecent assault; negative signs; constitutional leucorrhoea. Ditto, with incomplete rupture of the hymen. Ditto, with simple and very acute inflammation of the vulva and vagina. Ditto upon a child five years of age; considerable disorder; inflammation and blen- iiorrhagic discharge. Ditto on a girl four and a half years old; inflammation of the vulva; discharge from the urethra; gonorrhoeal infection. Ditto com- mitted by an old man of seventy upon a child eight years old; violent inflam- mation of the vulva; gonorrhoeal infection. Ditto on little children; inflam- mation of the vulva; injuries to the sexual organs; injuries to the mouth and lips. Ditto; injuries of the vulva. Repeated assaults by a father upon his child ; relaxation of the hymen, admitting, notwithstanding its integrity, com- plete introduction of the penis. Ditto repeated by a father upon his daughter; incomplete sexual connection, followed by pregnancy. Determination of vir- ginity ; malformation of the vagina; deformed vulva. Diito ; partial rupture of hymen by forcible introduction of finger. Ditto and violence committed upon two voung children; complete defloration; inflammation of vulva and vagina. Attempted violation; traces of great violence. Ditto; suicide of the victim; traces of violence. Violation and complete defloration of a child twelve years of age Violation and complete defloration ; the signs present after three weeks Violation ; complete defloration, without retraction of the ruptured hvmen. Violation; complete defloration; false allegation of magnetic sleep. Violation; complete defloration; the hymen retracted; syphihs communicated. Violation; complete defloration; turning in of the fragments of the hymen Ditto, with impaired general health. Ditto. Violation, followed by murder, of a woman sixty-eight years of age; deep wounds. Violation, oUowed by mur- ders Immoral assaults upon six young girls. Sodomy, of a husband with h-s wife; characteristic signs; grave disorder. Active and passive sodomy; cha- ruteristic signs. Ditto, active. Active and passive sodomy; peculiar shape of