GENERAL PATHOLOGY AND SYMPTOMATOLOGY. l^H with muscular movements. With respect to the effect of irritants—(i.) A weak galvanic current constantly contracts the greater and smaller arteries lying in its course, sometimes in spots, sometimes com- pletely, and usually so perfectly that the channel is obliterated. The veins of the web were never positively contracted, only the larger ones running at the sides of the toes. The circulation in the capillaries was not slackened or arrested, unless the degree of contraction was considerable. (2.) Mechanical irritation produced the same effects as Wliarton Jones observed. (3.) Warmth (104°) immediately increases the rapidity of the stream, and distends the arteries, capillaries, and veins, without causing contraction or dila- tation. A higher temperature (158°) at first increases the rapidity of the stream, but soon it slackens, and stasis occurs. The arteries were not contracted. Cold (33°) had no effect. [The editor remarks that some observations of his own were very positive as to the arterial dilatation produced by warmth, and the contraction induced by cold. Both the higher and lower temperature were moderate.] (4.) Dilute acids for a moment increase the rapidity of the current, then it declines and stasis sets in. Stronger acids cause accumulation of the blood in the veins, and an empty state of the capil- laries and arteries. (5.) Dilute caustic alkalies act in the same way as acids. (6.) Clilorides of sodium and calcium, sugar, urea, sulphate of magnesia, and of soda, &c., act much in the same way. A drop of cold, saturated solution conditionates almost immediately accele- ration of the circulation, without visible arterial dilatation, which in a few seconds passes into retardation and arrest. The stasis affects, first the capillaries, then the veins, last the arteries. In the small veins, whose current tends away from the irritated spot, the direction is sometimes reversed. Gunning concludes that stasis has no con- nection with the state of the vessels or of the heart's action. He confirms Weber's results as to the efi'ects of irritants after ligature of the vessels. Samuel, after observing that exudation is the inflammatory pbe- nomenon in warm-blooded animals, which is equivalent to stasis in the cold-blooded, and expressing his agreement with Lawrence, Thomson and Virchow, as to the non-occurrence of stasis in the ordinary inflammations of the human subject, proceeds to state his own results as to the production of inflammation by irritation of a nervous centre. The part he selected was the posterior part of the spinal cord of the frog, and the irritants were mechanical and elec.. 9