245 DIGESTIVE SYSTEM. notably contracted, and its walls greatly thickened, for some space above the cardia, wliile still higher up it was dilated. The stomach, liver, and intestines, were atrophied. The general nutrition had been well maintained during the whole period of forty-tln-ee years, diu-ing which the patient had suffered from a difficulty in swalloAV- iug. He was obliged to force onward the food which collected above the obstruction into the stomach, by stretching his body upwards. The accumulation then passed with a loud gm-gle. Betz, in a memoir on intus-susception, has the following observa- tions. He tliinks the peristaltic movements have not so much to do with the occurrence of invagination as has been supposed. He rather refers to sucli circumstances as the smaller diameter of one segment of intestine than that of the succeeding, the impulse of gas on ffecal masses, the weight of these masses, or of polypi, the liigher position of a portion of bowel than of the part succeeding, the pres- sure of the diaphragm and intestinal walls, as the causes which produce and increase intus-susceptions. An interesting and well-recorded case of intus-susception is com- muuicated by Frommann in which recovery ensued after tlie separa- tion and discharge of a vohailus consisting of at least tliirty-two inches of smaU intestiiie. Improvement commenced immediately after the administration of enemata, quickly repeated, the last of which was retained. One hour after there was a copious discharge of gas and of pultaceous, faecal matter. After the discharge of the volvulus an elongated, resisting, scarcely moveable, very sensitive swellmg, which had existed in the right lower abdominal region vanished. ' A case is recorded by Cabahet in which the colon was invagina- ted and prolapsed through the anus for a distance of twelve inches while at the same time a sound could be introduced a long way upwards between the margin of the anus and the prolapsed mucous membrane. After other attempts had failed. Cabaret succeeded by cmploynig the proceeding recommended by Le PeUetier. A case of ileus is recorded by Brugnoli, in which the obstruction seems to have been occasioned by a band of adlicsion formed between the bladder and the lower part of tlie ileum. The con traction of the bladder, by stretching tlie hitestine, brought its walls together, and so formed an obstacle to the onward passage of the contents. ^ A case is recorded by Steeubel in which the small intestine.