RESPIRATORY SISTEM. 223 were 6-6o per cent.; among seamen, 4-6 per cent. He lays stress on the two following conditions as most probably exerting a power- ful influence in the limitation of plithisisj viz., the constant and free use of marine animals for food, and the nature of tlie employ- ment of seamen and port labom-ers, which require them to be much in the open air and to exercise the chest-muscles, Tbousseau communicates the following observations on the treatment of astlima. T]ie cautious application of diluted Liq. Ammoniae ,to the tonsils is beneficial, but care must be taken to increase gradually the strength of the solution. In order to prevent the recurrence of the attacks, the patient is to take gradually increased doses of belladonna for the fu-st ten days of each montli at bedtime; during tlie second ten days he takes a spoonful of 01. Terebinth, daily, and during the remainder of the month he smokes each day an arsenical cigarette. This plan to be followed for two years, and besides for one year he takes every ten days, sumtiio mane, 5j of calisaya bark in a cup of sweetened coffee. Bvmi draws a distinction between what lie calls cancerous pul- monar)/ phthisis, where the cancerous growth forms disseminated nodules tlii-onghout the liuig, and another form where the cancer forms masses, either pusliing the lung before them or else invading and infiltrating its substance. A case is related of the fii-st patho"^ logical state in wliicli the right lung was excavated by several caverns in the two lower lobes, while whitisli, encysted tumours were scattered through its extent. The left lung was similarly affected, but the caverns were fewer and smaller. The tumours, he says, were clearly encephaloid. There was no pleural effusion. The symptoms were those of pneumonia and pleui-itic effusion (^go- phony), with hectic fever, general earthy paUor, and extreme ema- ciation. Death occurred in about four months from the com- mencement of the disease. Chuhchill records several cases of pertussis greatly relieved or arrested by the inhalation of a little chloroform. Some valuable remarks are made by the internes of the HGpital dos Enfans Malades respecting the kind of cases of croup and diph- theria m which tracheotomy should be performed, and where it flioiild be abstained from. LoiSEAU strongly recommends the application of tannin and either by insufflation or a sponge. The application is to be made