REPORT ON MIDWIFERY, ETC. 390 hearty uieal, and died in five hours. The os was uudilatcd throughout. KiDD relates two cases observed in the Coombe Lying-in Hospital, in which the diagnosis of hysterical from epilejitiform convulsions was difficult. The only reliable diagnostic point in these cases was the preservation of consciousness by the hysterical patients throughout. Mauce's work on puerperal mania is a complete analysis of psychical derangements in women during the periods of pregnancy, parturition, and lactation. The pathology and treatment of these afl'ections and the medico-legal bearings of the subject are fully discussed. Details of seventy-nine cases observed are incorporated in the text. BjUikek, in relation to a question raised in the coui-se of discus- sion respecting the late " Smethurst" trial, relates the case of a patient, set. 43, pregnant for the first time, who became affected immediately after conception with vomiting, and two months and a half after, with dysenteric diarrhcsa. Abortion occurred at the end of the fourth month, and recovery followed. Giedwood also cites four cases in wdiich dysentery or diarrhoea was associated with vomiting during early pregnancy. In Tyler Smith's case, obstinate vomiting set in coincidently with conception, and the patient was so reduced as to weigh only forty-seven pounds. With great difficulty she was kept alive. At the end of five months abortion occurred. Death, some months subsequently, from phthisis. Dezon foimd benefit in three cases of vomiting fi-om applications of cold water to the epigastrium. Uleich records a fatal case of vomiting in pregnancy. In Paris a discussion on the subject of puerperal fever occupied numerous sittings of the Imperial Academy of Medicine. Depaul, who contended for the nou-essentiaUty of the disease, stated that cases were not rare in which local alterations were quite wanting. The unknown poison affects not only women in cliildbed, but preg- nant women, the foetus, and even women not pregnant. He had only seen two or three recoveries out of some hundreds affected. Deepech had found no good results from the use of quimne ihe disease is developed, he contends, almost exclusively m lying-m hospitals; is seldom fatal in private practice. Beau stated that he reason other observers had not been successful with quinine was that they had not used it in the proper manner. His method was to give