UEPORT ON Tlllil INSTITUTES OF MEDICINE. muscles except those of respiration. In this way he was able to allay the tetanic spasm without destroying the intelligence, or arresting the performance of the organic functions,—and by continu- mg the thus-moderated action of woorara until the kidneys had time to eliminate the strychnine from tlie system, he had been able to save the life of the animal. The theory of its action in tetanus is, he considers, much the same. That is to say, you try to keep the spasms from killing the patient by their violence, until the morbid state calling tliem into play has exhausted itself. Sibson said that in 1838 he experimented upon an ass, to show that an animal might be resuscitated by artificial respiration after what would otherwise be a fatal dose. For more than an hour the animal lay apparently dead, with no sign of life except the beating of the heart. At lengtli it breathed, and in an hour afterwards walked round the room. In a subsequent experiment Sibson gave woorara to a horse labouring under tetanus. As a dose proportionate to that given to the ass did not produce in this case any effect, more was given, and in increasing the quantity the animal was destroyed. In another case the animal breathed at the end of tliree or four hours, but it died before the apparatus could be applied a second time. The animal was free from tetanus during the whole period of the experiment. In order to overcome tetanus, it is necessary to give an adequate dose, and Sibson fears that an adequate dose wiU be such as to call for artificial respiration. EadcMe suggested the employ- ment of conia in cases of tetanus. Paul Broca lately read a paper on the treatment of tetanus by woorara, to the Surgical Society of Paris. He began by giving a resume of the literature of the subject, and then entered upon the question as to the best mode of administering it. He does not like the plan of inoculation, and prefers, he says, giving it by the mouth, which is a less troublesome and equally effective method. For al- though the poison does not act so rapidly, nor in such small doses when taken into the stomach, yet if given to fasting animals its absorp- tion by the digestive canal is not to be doubted. BiiocA further says, that he would not hesitate to give a man every half hour a table- spoonful of a six-ounce mixture, containing in solution fifteen grains of woorara. The paper contains many practical hints of importance. KoLLiKEE, and Pelikan found that the muscles of frogs poisoned with woorara have, as fiirst pointed out by Bernard, and afterwards