DISEASES APPECTING THE GENERAL SYSTEM. 167 coexistence of scarlatina and rubeola has been observed in immerons instances, (o) Typlius and scarlet-fever liave not been unequivo- cally observed simultaneously in tbe same case, (p) Dr. Murchison gives foul" positive cases of the coexistence of the eruptions of typhoid and scarlatina, the latter having supervened on the former. "With regard to the converse, there is no satisfactory evidence, (q) Of the contemporaneous, or almost contemporaneous, existence of the symp- toms of t}^3hus and typhoid fever, Dr. Mui'cliison adduces eight instances, tlu-ee of them having been carefully and repeatedly ex- amined by liimself. Prom the foregoing facts the author argues that " the doctrine of the incompatibility of two or more contagious diseases is erroneous; and consequently that upon the mere occa- sional coexistence of the peculiar eruptions of typhus and pytho- genic fever, no argument can be based as to the identity of the poisons of these two diseases." Lebeet records a case of inveterate and hereditary scrofula cured by the sole use of iodized bread, after all direct medical treatment had failed. From infancy the cervical glands had been swollen and suppurating, the right mastoid process had become diseased, the general health was very bad, and there was extreme anaemia. After eight months' use of the medicated bread, the patient's condition had undergone a complete metamorphosis, the disease was cured, and the health was perfect. M. Lebert remarks, that clu-onic diseases yield only to the slow and gradual use of remedies. GiGOT speaks favorably of the local application of percliloride of iron in cases of membranous angina (diphtheritis.) Crocq recommends the employment of acid nitrate of silver (a solution of nitrate of silver in nitric acid) in preference to acid nitrate of mercui-y or solid lunar caustic. The medical report of the General Hospital at Vienna for the years 1856-7, contains in its first chapter a detailed notice of the typhus epidejnic which raged from November, 1855, to March, 1856, with uimsual violence. In December and January the in! crease m the number of typhus cases was from tluee to six times as gi-eat as that which occurred during the same months of precedino- years. A peculiarly frequent symptom in this epidemic was the typhus roseola wliicli appeared on all parts of the body except the face. In some cases (the severest) a greater extent of the cutaneous surface was occupied by the maculae than was left free. The spots appeared 0.1 the fifth or sixth day, first, on the breast or Jms}