19 MUSCULAR SYSTEM. no vessels^ yet there is situated immediately within the articular lamella' a set of arteries destined to supply the cartilage with nutriment, a. That the articular lamella is composed of a finely tubular structure, wliich allows the nutrient fluid to find its way to the cartilage in minutely divided streams. 3. That the cartilage has no other souixe of nutriment. Teeund looks upon the granular condition of the matrix, in the cartilages of the ribs, as being due to the presence of a quantity of fine fat-globides. They can be removed by ether, which circumstance he thinks estabhshes the correctness of his view. Abby describes the development of cartilage in the foetus, and its ossification in later life. His description of the development and increase of the cartilage-corpuscles is clearly given; but does not difl'er materially from that of other writers. In the process of ossification of the symphysis pubis cartilage, the cells appear to diminish in number, while the matrix increases in quantity. The corpuscles themselves somewhat change their appearance; they become granular, and contain fat-globules, as is well seen in rib- cartilage. The researches of Magitot and Guillot can scarcely be said to have furnished us with any new facts regarding the development of the teeth. Magitot says that the enamel is composed of ossified cells, and agrees with Tomes as to the artificial nature of its supposed membrane. Guillot thinks that the teeth are developed out of a blastema similar to that which forms the matrix of bone. MUSCULAll SYSTEM. Eadcliffe.—On Muscular Action from an electrical point of view. Proc. Roy. Soc, No. 34, p. 690. Ellis.—Researches into the nature of the Involuntary Muscular Tissue of the Human Bladder. Transactions of the Roy. Soc, 1859, pp. 469—477, plates xxvi and xxvii. Budge,—Sur la croissance des muscles. [On the Grovfth of Muscles.] (Compt. Rend., Oct., 1858, pp. 587—589-) ' Toynbee calls the layer of bone separating the cancelli of the ossified epiphysal cartilage from the true articular cartilage, the " articular lamella."