REPOllT ON PRACTICAL MEDICINE. 160 tlie exudation, forming a gummy product. The free and persistent use of nutrients and stimulants was all-important. MuiicuisoN records two instances in which it appears very pro- bable that the origiii of typhus fever maybe traced to overcrowding. In the first, seven human beings occupied 1139 cubic feet of space; in the secoiul, eight occupied 1378 feet. The drainage, in the first in- stance, was good; in the second, it is not specially mentioned. The disease spread by contagion to several persons in the second in- stance, only to one in the first. No source of contagion could be traced in either. BuDD discusses at some length the question as to the contagious- ness of intestinal, alias pythogenetic, alias typhoid fever, main- taining the affb-mative side of the question. This has been done before by Bretonneau, Louis, Gendron, Ruef, and Piedvache. The evidence adduced bv the author liimself consists of a number of cases, minutely observed and recorded, with the express object of showing that this form and the maculated t^^hus are totally dis- tinct species. The following is a brief abstract of part ot this evidence " From the village of North Tawton, where fever was rife, A returned to his home at Morchard, took to bed, and died m five weeks Two of his cliildren took the disease. B also went to Mor- chard, and had fever, communicated it to C, from whom it spread to three other persons. L went to Chaffcombe and lay ill there several weeks with fever ; her nurse T, and the husband, T, and seven other persons, took the same disease. One of these seven was sent to Loosebeare, and from lier the disease spread to a large proportion of the inhabitants. Troin Chaffcombe ^-f^^J^^^l home to one of two cottages, lying between Bow ^nd North Taw ton He communicated the disease to two persons m the one where he iay rck, whence the disorder extended to every one mtlie other .dioinin^. Another married daughter, who had come from a dt nee to take care of her rieli relatives, being at length iiifeeted, tcameonlierreturnb^^^ L yeranother quarter." In all the localities where ever appeared a Ze detailed, Wre wa. no other f Zl rise to k except the arrival of a diseased person. The s. . C conditions were just what they had been for years past. The !v Lnee of a period of latency, and the immumty afforded by an H Tof this fever against recurrences, are dwelt upon by Dr. Budd :rll!^:^^i«ifying the disease with the exantbematous