54 REPORT ON THE INSTITUTES OF MEDICINE. that cover the cornea, or by any stimulus whatever affecting the special nervous tract. Besides the ordinary interest that we feel in tracing subjective illusions to their sources, the accurate elimination of these is a physiological necessity, if we would avoid tlie risk of ascribing effects begotten by subordinate to more integral portions of the apparatus, and thus forming wrong conceptions of the laws which regulate the conduct of the latter. Tinally, a diligent study of these accidental appearances may be made serviceable for the solution of certain important points of ocular structure of too delicate a nature for the microscope or other usual means of investigation, as also for determining important questions of function." Henke proposes to divide the orbicularis palpebrarum ilito three muscles—orbic. orbitalis, laclirymahs anterior, and laclirymahs pos- terior. The laclirymahs anterior, acting upon the laclirymal duct, causes its enlargement, and thereby induces the entrance of the tears. The lachrymahs posterior, on the other hand, compresses the duct and forces the tears into the nasal cavity. Baku thinks that the accommodation of the eye depends entirely on the change m the form of the lens. The adjustment, Mannhart says, is brought about by the cihary muscle (alone) acting on the lens. Levy gives a somewhat similar explanation of its action. Wliile Czeemak says that the adjustment of the eye for short distances most probably arises from an increase in the antero-posterior diameter of the crys- taUine lens. Manz thinks that the eyes of fish are capable of adiustment, notwithstanding their possessing no cihary muscle and the iris being scarcely mobile. The adjustment may be induced, he imagines, by the action of the muscular fibres of the campanula on Lubi'moff made experiments on the apparent extent of objects, bv looking at them through variously-sized openmgs made m shdes, and Seguin on the extent of the post-impression Avith the closed eye The latter looked at a red square on a black ground, and after projecting the given post-impression on a wliite screen, shut the eyes and walked backwards. He fomid that by so domg the picture appeared to become larger as he receded. AUBERT and Melsens's communications contam remarks on the probable cause of post-impressions, and Willigen s on the effects observed on looking tlirough shts. Maktini states that for some hours after taking a dose of santo-