DISEASES AND INJURIES OF THE BONES AND JOINTS. 315 Skey tliinks that in tlu-ee foui-tlis of the cases of diseases of the kuee-joi]it occurring in young women, from fifteen to twenty-five, the traces of hysteria are more or less palpable. Local sedatives in the form of strong solutions of opium are valuable, and should be freely used. Gjoe's prize essay at the University of Christiana contains an historical sketch of the views respecting caUus which have prevailed from the time of Galen, and investigations into the nature of the jorocess. Lawson's patient, a cliild set. 9 months, had fallen on a fender six weeks previously. The plaster of Paris bandage was used. Death was caused by pneumonia. The shaft of the femur had been broken about the middle. The medullary canal was obhterated at the seat of fracture, and the broken ends were ensheathed by a ferrule of pro^'isional caUus. Pergusson's patient broke his thigh at sea. The bones were badly set, and united in such a bad position that when he reached port the surgeons, under whose care he came, advised him to have it re-broken. This was done, but re-union did not take place. Subcutaneous scraping of the ununited ends of the bone; partial re-section of them, and ivory pegs put in them, had failed to pro- duce union; the limb was, therefore, removed. Kinlock's case was an oblique fi-acture of the body of the lower jaw, just in front of the masseter muscle. The broken ends over- rode, and could not be kept in position by the usual means j but each having been perforated by a fine drill, they were tied together with a strong silver wire. Eapid union ensued. ScuLBORN having unsuccessfully used the seton, subcutaneous laceration, and driU, one year after the accident, laid bare the frac tore of the radius, pierced the broken ends with a smaU gimlet, carried a piece of stout silver wire through the holes, and twisted Its ends tightly together; it was subsequently tightened and union ultimately took place. A similar operation was performed upon the ulna with an equally good result. MoRGAN^g and Adams' patients were lads, ^t. 17 and 19 and in both firm union took place. Corner's patient, a boy, ^t. 14, feU from a cart and his foot turned inwards. The signs resembled those of luxation of the foot backwards.