ion HUPOIIT ON THE INSTITUTES OF MKDICINE. had been sucked, the finger became swollen and painful, numbness proceeded up the arm, the limbs became weak, he felt giddy, and vomited. Next day, spots of purpura haemorrhagica appeared on different parts of Ids body, and erysipelas attacked his arm. He re- covered slowly. Livingstone says, that the sting of the "tsetse," although fatal to the dog, ox, and horse, is not so, either to man, the goat, or the ass. Waller repeated McDonnell's experiment of allowing the actina to seize the sciatic nerve of a galvanoscopic frog, and on so doing was struck with the uncertainty and irregularity with wliich muscular contractions are obtained; whereas when he presented, in lieu of a galvanoscopic frog, a nereis to the actina, the result was invariably the death of the animal. The first symptom observed is a writhing, as if the creature felt great pain, and in the most marked cases to this is succeeded paralysis and flaccidity of the muscles, like what is seen in a frog poisoned by woorara. It appears indifi'erent whether the cephalic or the caudal extremity of the nereis be attacked by the actina—similar symptoms are pro- duced in both cases. In order to elucidate the real power of the actina—after having in vain exposed the finger with the cuticle softened—Waller presented his tongue to the tentacles of the animal. The result was such as to satisfy him respecting the offensive weapons with which it is furnished. The animal seized the organ, and was with difficulty detached. The injury was followed by a pungent, acrid pain, the part becoming inflamed and much swollen. After an hour these symptoms abated, and in about four houTS they entirely disappeared. In a day or two afterwards an ulcer appeared on the tip of the tongue, but it soon healed. Prom this experiment Waller concludes that the actinee kill their prey by means of an acrid irritant poison—similar in some respects to that of the wasp, or of snakes—winch quickly spreads tlirough the system of the annelida, producing the above-mentioned results. By spreading a thin india-rubber membrane over a glass tube, and allowing the actina to grasp it, he found by means of the microscope that the poisoned darts are left sticking in the wound. Habley, in liis letter to the 'Lancet,' says, that in 1856, he pointed out the antagonistic action of woorara and strychnine, citing three experiments to show that these substances have the power of reciprocally neutralizing the effects of each other, according