REPORT ON MIDWIFERY, ETC. 374 experience of the efficacy of digitalis is limited, but so far he is dissatisfied with the results obtained. Beau aiBrms that rue has a specific action on the uterus, as digitalis has on the heart. He combines rue with savin, in doses of rather less than a grain of each. Burns insists on the efficacy of arsenic in cases of haemorrhagia and leucorrhoea. In the treatment of uterine catarrh, Aran recommends the injection of enemata containing aloes, gamboge, rhubarb, jalap, scammony, castor oil, croton oil, or purgative salts. Becquerel considers an idiopathic neuralgia of the uterus to be not unfrequent. The disease is chronic, mostly iutermittent, and difficult of removal in ansemic subjects. CoGHiLL considers that the affection known as " irritable uterus" consists in a disordered state of the innervation of the organ. An increased vascularity, always present, brings with it morbid sensi- bility. This vaso-motor irritation has a further result in the excessive activity of the sensitive apparatus, accounting for the presence of leucorrhcea. This doctrine is founded on considerations suggested by Brown-Sequard^s recently expressed ^^ews. Namias believes that tubercle occurs in the genital organs more frequently than is usually supposed, and that it does not often occur pmnurily in the genital organs. He has usually found tubercle in the uterus in the crude stage. When the Fallopian tubes are affected, the canal is not obliterated. In the ovaries the author has found tubercle in great quantity. De Christoforis contests the vaHdity of some of the above generalisations. On the subject of syphilis of the uterus, Parker arrives at the conclusion that the uterus is capable of being primarily inoculated with syphilis, the sores being situated on the external surface of the neck, within the os or canal, or more deeply; that the uterus is liable to be attacked with the symptoms of secondary sypliilis, Avliich consist in discharges from the canal of the cervix, general or partial enlargement of the neck and lips of the uterus, with congestion, inflammation, and superficial ulceration ; and that the affection often persists for years. KoLLOCK records a case of chancre of the os uteri, proved by inoculation to be a genuine syphilitic sore. In cases of fibroid tumour of the uterus, Langenbeck advocates