GENERAL PATHOLOGY AND SYMPTOMATOLOGY, 137 osteo-sarcomata, exostoses, osteophytes, the repair of fractures, &c. Maier describes a case of sarcoma melanodes; Yirchow describes the minute structure of tubercle; and Porster gives a pretty full expo- sition of the structure of cylindrical epithelial cancroid. Beckman communicates a case of amyloid degeneration. (Vol. ii. pp. 24—27.) Leubuschee details a rare case of cystic formation in the brain, somewhat similar to the embryonal or colloidal tumours; as well as the microscopic appearances in the brain of an insane person, where some patches of softening and one of induration were found. Buhl, from examination of trachomatous structure, refers the alteration to the class of neuromata, or tumours formed by consider- able hypertrophy of the sheaths of the nerves. Kussmaul has studied the production of laceration of the inner coats of the cervical arteries in persons who have died by hanging. It occurred four times in fourteen cases. Billroth describes a new formation of glandular parenchyma as occurring in secondary acute and subacute inflammation of the lymphatic glands, not a mere increase of lymph-corpuscles. Prom examination of an inflamed prepuce, in which the sheaths of the vessels and bundles of connective tissue were full of lymph-corpuscles, Billroth comes to the conclusion that the connective-tissue-corpuscles may be regarded as the epithehum of the lymph-capillaries, which are represented by lacunar spaces among the bundles of the above-mentioned tissue. True lymphatic vessels were seen to originate from the vascular sheaths laden with corpuscles, in this instance. Billroth also describes the course of the degenerative changes in hypertrophy of the tongue and lips. Triedleben, in his admirable monograph on the thymus, shows that there is no such disease as the so-called astlima thymicum. Beale describes the interspaces between the lobules in cirrhosed states of the Hver as not containing any unusual amount of connective tissue, but the detritus of cells that have perished. Wagner's treatise on uterine cancer, and Thompson's on the prostate gland, must be noticed, as works of reference on their respective subjects. Pellizzari supports the view that puerperal fever is only fever set up by purulent infec- tion. Yirchow describes the sweat-glands in cases of phthisis as being in a state of fatty degeneration. CONTRIBUTIONS TO GBNEUAL PATHOLOGY. Virehow's 'Cellular Tatkology.'—This work is ranked by Kussmaul with Schwann's celebrated treatise, as doing for pathology what the