REPORT ON THE INSTITUTES OF MEDICINE. 113 wrist of a girl, in the iieiglibourliood of a bursa, and after making the application twice for a period of sixteen minutes, the parts to be operated on were white, and so insensible that the patient, whose head was averted, was unconscious that anything was being done. Waller repeated llicluirdson's experiments upon himself and several other persons^ as well as animals, and came to the conclusion that the local insensibility obtained in the above-described manner is quite irrespective of the electricity employed, and is simply due to tlie local absorption of cliloroform and aconite. The non-influence of the electricity, he says, is demonstrated by the fact, that the simple topical application of the narcotic mixture induces complete insensibility of the skin in a shorter time that when electri- city is superadded. The effect of the electricity is neither to accele- rate the absorption of the narcotic, nor to produce per se local insensibility of the skin. In his second communication. Waller says, ''that the so-called process of voltaic narcotism is a lususphysiolo- gicus, and all the effects obtained are solely referable to cutaneous absorption.-"' Further, that the insensibility is entirely confined to the integuments at the spot of application, and that the contact of the narcotic mixture for ten or fifteen minutes is almost invariably followed by vesication, and even destruction of the superficial parts of the cutis. The iniiammation being sometimes of a very painful and obstinate character. The cicatrization of the suppurating surface being more diflicult than in the ordinary mode of blistering. In his communication of the 35th June, Richardson says that he has continued his experiments on the subject of voltaic narcotism, several of which he relates, and he considers that it may be accepted as a fact, that such a degree of local insensibility may be produced by it as shall enable the surgeon to perform a large number of operations without pain. He makes no allusion to Waller's researches, but remarks that he is aware that the local application of narcotic solutions produce a certain degree of local ansesthesia. The addition of the voltaic current, however, makes the insensibihty extend more deeply. The process, he says, has certain disadvantages: i. It requires a long time, for its application to be successful; 2. It is accompanied with a certain amount of pain; 3. The apparatus necessary is cumbersome; and, 4. The production of cutaneous vesication is objectionable. Waller, in his communication of the 30th July, brings forward