llEPORT ON PllACTlCAIi MEDICINK. 200 ]\Iatice iidopts the following conclusions with respect to llie state of the mental powers in chorea. " (i.) The moral and intellectual functions are very commonly affected in choreic patients; at least two tliirds show some affection of the kind. The immunity enjoyed by the remaining third cannot be explained either by the age or the sex of the subjects, by the acuteness or chronicity of the disorder, nor by the extent or intensity of the convidsions. (2.) Pour morbid ele- ments, Avhich are sometimes isolated, but most frequently associated, should be studied together in the mental condition of chorea patients. —{a) Derangements of the moral sensibility, consisting in a notable change of character, which becomes irritable and capricious, and may be unusually animated, but is more frequently depressed. {L) Derangements of intellect, characterised by a loss of memory, by too great a flow of ideas, and by the impossibility of fixing the attention. (c) Hallucinations which occur in the state intermediate between sleeping and waking," commonly limited to the sense of sight. " {d) Chorea may, fi'om its commencement, be complicated with maniacal delirium; this frequently terminates in death, or if recoveiy takes place, intellectual disturbance remains." CH.iJPix " argues that the defective nutrition of the brain resultnig from the syphihtic diathesis" may i^roduce insanity. He bases his opinion upon a series of cases, partly cidled from his own experience, partly from that of other writers, in which the subsidence of the mental ahenation coincided with the effect of the treatment directed against syphilitic manifestations. DucHEXNE relates the following illustrative case of^ the disorder which he has termed " ataxie locomotrice progTcssive." A painter, ict. 28, has double but incomplete paralysis of the si.xth pair ot nerves ; characteristic boring and flying pains, recurring especially al night J integrity of the muscular force, contrasting with the coiu- plete loss of co-ordination of the lower Hmbs, which rendered walk- ing im])ossible, even when assisted by the eyesight; formication ami numbness of the last two fingers of each hand of only a few mouths dale; sensibilitv in the feet and legs much diminished; electro- muscular contractility intact. The disease had commenced two year> before. Its apparent cause was syphilitic disorder. An autopsy wa^ made ith great care after death had occurred from an intercurreni allection, but no appreciable lesion coidd be discovered 111 the brain and spinal cord. A case of softening of the spinal cord in its lower halt, with apo-