SOMATIC INJURIES AND MANSLAUGHTER. 429 September. The post-mortem examination revealed clu'onic intiam- mation of all the membranes of the brain^ with exudation and ul- ceration in brain, membranes, and bones. It is sought to connect these lesions -with the box on the ear. The second case is that of a girl of the same age, who also received a box on the right ear, and upon whose petral bone, a fungus of the dura mater was discovered at the post-mortem examination. In the leading article in ' Triedreich' it is maintained, that all in- juries of the head are capable of producing psycliical anomaUes; and that in some cases these anomalies appear a long time after the injury The case of BiRKETT refers to a woman, set. 46, who had been attacked by her husband with a hatchet, whilst she was asleep, her head being on a pillow. There were tlu-ee scalp wounds, and certain e\adence of a fracture. On the eighth day symptoms of compression set in, which necessitated the removal of two large pieces of bone, leaving the dui-a mater covered by a thick coagulum. There was repeated haemorrhage. In the course of the case some fur- ther pieces of bone came away. But granulations springing up from the sides of the wound, it became ultimately cicatrized. The woman, who had been admitted on July 25th, 1858, left Gu/s Hospital in March, 1859, and was then able to give evidence at the police court. Prom his series of observations Toulmotiche draws some general conclusions. In the case of Nothung, the left brachial plexus and some lym- phatic glands had been injured in the coui-se of a punctured wound, passing between the tliird and fourth vertebrse of the neck. ScHWANDNEK reports on an injury of the spinal marrow, conse- quent upon a punctured wound near the third dorsal vertebra: there was paralysis of the right foot, shortness of breath, and in- voluntary discharge of fseces and urine. An impaired function of the foot remained permanently. Clement-Lacroix gives a laborious compilation of the physiolo- gical, morbid, anatomical, and forensic relations of death by han"-ino- Krugblstein has furnished a complete account of the materia!" by which the question of priority of death can be decided. Hauska is of opinion that no conclusion can be di-awn from the expression of the face of dead persons, as to any circumstances piecedmg death. HuBEii points out that the presence of fissures in long l)ones s