231 IIESPIRATORY SYSTEM. part of the luug, extending joan pa&m with the absorption of the fluid. It did not appear in this case that any fistulous communica- tion had been formed between the pleura and the bronchi. Tudor strongly recommends the practice of scarifying the epi- glottis in cases of oedema glottidis. Patients who were suffering the most urgent distress from dyspnoea and inability to swallow even iluid, in a few hours after the operation breathe with comfort and swallow beef tea well. A weU-cuiwed, sharp-pointed bistoury, with its edge either blunt or guarded, is to be introduced with the right hand, guided by the left forefinger, and carried to the base of the epiglottis, where three or fom- incisions are rapidly made thi-ough the mucous membrane. " The patient is then directed to clear out the tlu-oat with forcible expii-ations, and gargle with water as hot as he can bear." Belief is immediate. A repetition of the operation may be required. Evans, in a paper on ' Ti-acheotomy in Croup,' expresses his dissent from the opinion of those eminent authorities who dis- suade the operation. He grounds his own view on the following considerations: (i.) The liigh rate of mortality from croup, both M-ith and without treatment. (3.) The immediate cause of death in a large majority of the fatal cases of the disease, viz., asphyxia. (3.) The recorded cases of croup in which tracheotomy has been re- sorted to when the patient has been aU but suffocated, and in which complete recovery has foUowed the operation. (4.) The great success whicli has attended the performance of tracheotomy for crouiD in France. Skoda observes, that in many cases the resorption of pleimtic cllusions IS prevented by the cii-cumstance that the capillaries in the !<ub-pleural tissue are obUterated. He explains the beneficial effect of injected iodine, &c., by its producing inflammation, which is necessary to the development of new capillary vessels. Paracen- tesis thoracis, m cases of long-existing effusion, he thinlcs only ad^ missible when the dyspncea produced is so great as to tln'eaten suffocation He notices particularfy the impossibility of emptying the pleural cavity as long as the lung is bound down by thick, false inembranes, whicli also prevent the diapliragm from rising As to he efficacy of external applications, Skoda is very doubtful on theoretical grounds, but aUows that he has, in individual instances, obtamed stnking results with mercurial, iodine, and copper oint^