MANUALS, GENERAL TREATISES, ETC. 9 few months ago M. de Luca has shown that the oxygen exhaled by the leaves of plants in the sun's light presents the properties of ozone. Schonbein had previously pointed out, however, that the juice of certain muslirooms changed oxygen gas into that substance. Ludwig says, that if we suppose that ozone exists in the animal body, we can easily comprehend how substances are therein consumed without any great increase of temperature. Animal combustion is peculiar, not only on that account, but also because of its products being different from any met with in ordinary combustion. They never- theless resemble eacli other in several important particulars; for example, urea is a product of animal combustion in the healthy body, and it can be formed artificially from albumen by a process of slow combustion, effected by means of a solution of permanganate of potash, at a temperature of 176° Tahr. When on the subject of nerve-force, our author remarks that its source is most probably to be found in the chemical decomposition of the substances composing the nerves. In proof of this, he says that nerves only retain their irritability so long as they possess a definite chemical composition,—and that living nerves in an excited, as well as in a non-excited, condition, gradually lose their normal composition. Por example, heat, which evaporates the water from the nerves, destroys their irritability just as much as an excess of water, which removes their salts. The same effect is produced by substances which coagulate their albumen or attack their fats. LoNGE'r's treatise on physiology has been coming out in parts during the last eight or nine years, and is only now completed. It is a large work, in two volumes; and although, like all text-books, it is more or less a compilation, it yet has a considerable quan- tity of original matter scattered through its pages. The author although of the advanced school, does not advocate the ultra views of some chemico-physical writers. He seems more inclined to steer a middle course; for when treating of the properties and functions of the nervous system, he remarks that some observers perhaps the majority, are strongly inclined to the opinion that nerve- force IS identical in its nature with electricity; while others, ao-ain think that, although it closely resembles electricity in many resp^'ects' It IS nevertheless a peculiar principle. But after having examined with impartiality the numerous facts upon which both theories are founded. It appears to him that there are not at the present moment sufficient grounds to authorise his adopting the views of the former