330 llEPORT ON SURGEllV. hour after the operation, aiul continued for upwards of tweuty-four hours. Damkl gives a critical renew of tlu-ee cases of suppurative iritis published by Dr. llildige, in the '])ublin Hospital Gazett<»/ October 15th, 1858. Daniel remarks that the disease is quite uiikuowii in this country. He recommends a tonic treatment, and deprecates ])araceutesis of the cornea and iridectomj^, wliich had been employed by Arlt and Jiiger, under whose care the cases had occurred. Daniel doubts the value of iridectomy in glaucoma. KiiciiLEii strongly recommends tlic oblique illumination of the front of the eyeball, by throwing a cone of light upon it with a convex lens, when a careful examination of the cornea, iris, &c., is neces- sary. Caruon du Villard follows the usual division of tliis subject into the following heads, wdiich are illustrated by cases, i. Exoph- thalmus caused by change in the bony tissues of the orbit, 2. Exoplithalmus caused by tumours in the orbit. 3. Exophthalmus caused by tumours in the neighbouring bony canties. 4. Ti-au- matic exophthalmus. 5. Htemorrhagic effusions not traumatic in origin. EoucHEK reports a case of a very remarkable tumoui- at the imier part of the roof of the left orbit, which he supposed to be a dilata- tion of the ophthalmic vein. Gioppi's patient was a woman, fet. 42. The symptoms appeared suddenly during labour. All the chief signs of anem-ism were pre- sent. The pulsation and bruit ceased when the carotid was com» pressed, and the eyeball receded. Digital compression was main- tained by relays of dressers. Eour days afterwards the patient was free from the beating and ruslnng, and the bruit could not be heard with the stethoscope. The tumour gradually diminished. Vanzetti's case, also a -woman, a;t. 49. She had had dilatation of the heart and aorta for five years. The orbital aneiu-ism appeared after the third paroxysm of a severe intermittent with cerebral con- gestion. A cure was also obtained by digital compression. To these a notice is appended of pubhshed cases of protrusion of the eye by dilatations of the orbital vessels, by Wixtek. ■Wordsworth says, the cyst had existed during several years; it projected from the roof of the orbit, and had throAvn the eye for- wards and outwards. Its close relation with the eyeball, and its