'i'* REPORT ON THE INSTITUTES OF MEDICINE. In 1856, LusciiKA described a small muscle under the name of mus. sternoclavicularis. Since then Hyrtl has looked for it in eighty- three bodies, and found it in six. Four times it exactly agreed with Lnsclika^s description, twice difl'ered slightly from it. BiiUECKE examined muscular fibrillse with polarized light, and distinguishes two substances in them—one "isotrope," and the other " anisotrope." MuNK says that the fibrillaj consist of a homo- geneous matrix, in which is a row of shining balls, the whole being suiTOunded by a structureless, transparent, elastic tube—sarcolema. Bo'iTCHER has specially directed liis attention to the nuclei in the sarcolema, and concludes that they are corpuscles of connective tissue, and connected together by a system of fine canals, as in tendon. RIGOR MORTIS. Heincke, Budge.—Ueber die Trritabilitat der Muskeln und deren Zusammenhang mit der Todtenstarre. [On the Irritability of Muscles, and its relation to Rigor Mortis.] (Deutsche Klinik, No. 3, 1858, pp. 420—422.) BrOWn-Sec^uard.—Sur la rigidite cadaverique. [On Rigor Mortis.] (Journ. de Physiol., vol. i, 1858, pp. 281-3.) Kuhne.—Ueber die Entstehung der Todtenstarre. [On the Development of Rigor Mortis.] (Allgem. med Centralzeit, No. 70, 1858, pp. 553, 554.) Fischer.—De natura causisque rigoris mortis. [On the Nature and Cause of Rigor Mortis.] Berlin, 1857. (Already known.) Kussmaul.—Ueber die Ertodtung der Gliedmassen. [On the Death of the Limbs.] (Virchow's Archiv, 1858, pp. 289—323.) Heincke having cut the sciatic nerve in two rabbits, and in thirty-six hours afterwards killed them with stryclinia, found that the muscles of the sound limb entered into a state of rigor mortis sooner than those in the limb with the nerves cut. The irri- tability was also soonest lost in the sound limb. The same results were obtained on rabbits killed by strangulation. When the muscles of a limb were killed by electricity the rigor mortis came on more rapidly. Brown-Sequard relates some experiments on the return of rigor mortis after it has been removed by forcible extension and flexion of the Hmb. He killed a healthy dog by ligaturing the trachea at 8 o'clock; at 11 rigor mortis began, and