SECRETORY SYSTEM. 261 The Mowing is au abstract of the chief peciUiunties observed in two cases of general enlargement of the IjTiaphatic glands, occurring m the practice of Wdxderlich. In the first case, a male, the lungs contained tubercles; in the second, a female, they did not. "Tlie most remarkable cii-cumstance in both of the cases was the enormous enlargement of such great numbers of lymphatic glands. To such an extent had they increased, that they not only disfigured the form of the body, but fi-om want of space to develop in, became themselves squeezed and flattened into various shapes. The change which the glands had undergone was in nowise of a carcinomatous or of a tuberculous nature, but consisted in an enormous hyper- trophy produced with great rapidity, a portion of the nutritive material bemg deposited in an amorphous condition in the hyper- trophied gland. The increase of the peculiar glandular parenchyma was less m the second than in the first case, there being in the former a good deal of coagulated fibrine, and infiltration of incom- pletely orgamzed matter. The change observed in the spleen is, as tar as the author is aware, peculiar, and liitherto undescribed. To he unaided eye, it most resembled innumerable points of suppm-a- tiou, save that it was nowhere soft and fluidiform, but, on the con- trary, very firm, and ahnost of cartilaginous hardness. Exactly the same change, but in far less numerous spots, was observed in the livei-^ The resemblance of this infiltration with the condition of the swoUen lymphatic glands leads to the inference of both being due to a common constitutional affection, and it might be indicated as sp een or hver scrofula. The causes of the affection were discover- able m neither case. The glandular swellings were not secondary to a periphenc affection. They might be regarded, in fact, as the expression of a constitutional disease. The general condition was one of extreme an^; leuc^mia was suspected, but repeated microscopic examination of the blood set this view aside " ^^Anv records a number of cases of jaundice arising from -dif- ferent functiona and structui-al derangements of the liver, which W^\f W by any one studying the subjec LK. has applied the term anc^mia hjmphatica to a morbid named. ihe essential features of the disease are the most extreme pallor or anaemia, enlargement of one or more of the various Soum onymphafc glands, either internal or external to tliTb d ' "7 peculiar morbid condition, with occasional enlargem nt^^c^ h