REPORT ON THE INSTITUTES OF MEDICINE. 50 increases and then diminishes. He made some observations on the effects of galvanism on the cut vagi, but found nothing very new Heinemann cut tlie vagi and recurrent laryngeal nerves of frogs. Six lived 4 weeks after the operation, two lived 18, one 10, one 8, two 7, and one 6 days. Biekvliet made some expe- riments on dogs, with the view of ascertaining the effects of the vagi on the sensation of hunger, but with unsatisfactory results. KuPFFER and Ludwig's experiments, on the other hand, were made with the view of ascertaining the influence of the vagi on the movements of the digestive canal. They found that galva- nism applied to the peripheral ends of the cut vagi induces peristaltic action in the intestines. Galvanism apphed to the splanchnic nerves is followed by a similar result. Wagner's observations on the sympathetic were made upon a decapitated woman, ^t. 2S. He found that galvanism applied to the cervical sympathetic caused the eyeUds to open, the pupil to enlarge, and the other results usually noticed on the lower animals. Liegeois found that, after tearing out the facial nerve, the movements of the cheek continue for an hour. Budge concludes, from his experiments on rabbits, that sethenza- tion does not diminish the sensibihty of the ccehac or of the superior mesenteric ganglion to mechanical stimuli. Brown- Sequard thinks that galvanizing the splanchnic nerves causes an increase in the peristaltic movements of the intestine only when the current passes through a portion of the bowel as weU as the nerve. , Jaschkowitz found that section of the nerves of the spleen, in dogs and cats, cause an increased flow of blood to the organ, and a copious deposit of h^matin-pigment in its ceUs. THE FIVE SENSES—SEEING, HEARING, TASTING, SMELLING, AND FEELING. Tlprschel -Remarks on Colour-Blindness. Proc. Roy. Soc, No 35, p. 72- WrS-Ou the Cause of Long and Short Sights, and on the Voluntary Contrac- ^ tion and Dilatation of the Pupil. N. Amer. Med.-Chir. Rev., July. p. 705- Med. Times and Gaz., 17th Septeinher, 1859. P- ^9i- . JagO.-On Entopics. British and Foreign Med.-Chir. Rev., April, 1859. P- 4«>S, July, p. 165.