REPORT ON THE INSTITUTES OF MEDICINE. 96 Hej/lXSius.—Ueber die Entstcliiing des Ureums. [On Uraemic Poisoning.] (Froriep's neuc Notiz., vol. ii, 1858, pp. 194—198, and 209—212.) Vulpian.—Sm- le contractillte des nrdticSs. [On the Contractility of the Ureters.] (Gaz. Med. de Paris, July, 1858, p. 428.) Cazenave. — Do I'lneilire. [The Urethra.] Jour, de Mdd. Bordeaux, 2me s^rie, No. 7, 1858. Gives apparently nothing new, (Valentin.) Barkow.—Anatomische Untersuchungen ueher die Harnblase (Researches on the Urinary Bladder) des Menschen, nebst Bemerknngen ueber die mannliche und weibliche Harnrohre. (On the Male and Female Urethra.) Fol. 1858. Giraldes. — Note sur un nouvel organ glanduleux, situd dans le cordon sper- matique, et pouvant donner naissance a des Kystes. [On a new Glandular Organ in the Spermatic Cord.] Gaz. des hopit., No. 45, 1858. Hassall says tliat the object of his little work is to afPord an explanation, as simple as possible, of the physical properties, com- position, and uses of the urine; of the function of the kidneys; and, more especially, of the principles of treatment of the chief urinary disorders. The volume is illustrated with twenty-four plates of the various deposits, organic as well as iaorganic, met with in the urine. A few of the plates are copied from Eobin and Verdeil's 'Atlas;' the remainder are original. Hassall states that unwholesome and adulterated food operates as a cause of renal disease—1st. By many of the substances employed in the adulteration of food being in themselves injurious to health, by impairing and deranging the digestive function. 2d. By reducing the dietetic value of the articles consumed; examples of these are furnished in bread, milk, and cofTee. Another fruitful predisposing cause to renal disease are unhealthy occupations, especiaUy employments entaihng the working in ill-lighted, iU-veu- tilated, over-crowded rooms. He says, too, that the mere density of the urine affords an indication of treatment, as it is mainly due to the presence of an excess of urea or sugar. Tlie former denothig an undue waste of tissue, the latter the existence of a special disease. An extremely acid condition of the urme is in general dependent on the nature of the food; but mainly on some error of digestion. A persistent alkahne condition of the urine, on the other hand, is usuaUy not so much dependent on a faulty digestion as on general or local debility. As regards the nature and treatment of cystine deposit, our author says, that as it contains more than 25 per cent, of sulphur, and thereby bears a close resemblance to taurine, it is probable thnt its presence in the ui-ine is due to some disorder of the hepatic