REPORT ON LEGAL MEDICINE, ETC. I 463 Eeich's book has a political tendency, whence it has become the subject of a legal prosecution in Bavaria. He wants to take educa- tion out of tlic hands of the clergy altogetlier, and to have it su- perintended by a central medical council. . His book is one of those impractical declamations, wliich, being useless to the people, meet with no support, and being offensive to the parties in power, bring down persecution upon the authors. II. FOOD. Artmann (Captain on the Staff of the Imperial Austrian Engineers, and rrofessor at the Military Engineering Academy, Klosterbruck). — Treatise on Food, Prayue. The author begins with the elementary chemistry of the general materials entering into the composition of plants and animals, and describes in outline their compounds and alterations. The principle of the conservation of force he illustrates in a practical manner, and then passes on to the consideration of nutrition. A definition of food and nutritive materials is then arrived at; and it is stated that experience only can teach whether a substance is food or not, and that, without experience, science could not teach it. This distinction between science and experience, though doubtless un- pliilosophical, may perhaps be pertinent to the position from wliich the author's intended readers maybe supposed to regard the sub- ject. He then treats of albiiminous substances, their qualities and powers. Alcohol, the author believes, has the property of retarding the decomposition or disintegration of matters in the body, as well of the fluids as of the tissues: by thus lessening the necessary amount of food it acts as a saving agent. But beyond tliis hypo- thesis, and an admission of the usefulness of alcoholic ch-inks as general and special stimulants, we meet with no specific knowledge on this most important subject. According to the author, alcohol, in the form of the usual beverages, excites the imagination more than the other forms of cerebral activity; Avhilc tea and colTee raise the intellect. But wHle alcohol excites not only the bram but also the rest of the body, tea and coffee have a sedative effect upon the rest of the body. The author enunciates the general prmciple, that food must be so adapted to the individual that he can attain therewith the highest development of his physical and spu-itual