AMPUTATION. 277 armpit, aud in breadth it occupied nearly oue third of the circum- ference of the limb. The axiUary glands were enlarged, and the skiu covering them M'as ulcerated. Together with the ai-m, the diseased contents of the axilla were removed. The patient, at the time of tliis report, was doing favorably. JoHxsoN^s patient, set. 38, had broken his arm about the middle, nine mouths previously. A tumour, of the size of a cocoa nut, formed at the site of fractui-e. It was considered to be malignant. Amputation, with lateral flaps, was performed at the shoulder, with httle loss of blood, but an hour afterwards free lisemorrhage, requiring tliirty ligatures to arrest it, took place. The patient recovered. Solly's lecture contahis reports of five cases of severe injury of the hand. The duty of preserving any portion of the thumb or fingers left entire is strongly insisted on. BuiiGESs reports a severe accident from a tlu-esliing macliiue. The fii-st, second, and tliird fiugers of the left hand were wholly crushed, and the little finger and thumb partially so. The pahn and back of the hand were greatly lacerated. The mutilated phalanges were alone removed, and an excellent hand was preserved. Eagee says a powder-flask had exploded in the hand. The Kttle finger was blown off; the metacarpal bones of the other fiingers were broken; the thumb was dislocated. Amputation was rejected. The torn joints were adjusted, and a most useful hand was preserved. CouLsox describes a tumour-, as large as a small apple, over the metacarpal bone of the thumb. He removed the growth with the metacarpal bone and part of the radius. It had been previously twice removed. Sedgwick says the pabn of the hand, the tlm-d and foui-th fingers, were shot away, and the second finger hung by the skin ordy. The metacarpal bones of these fingers, together with the OS magnum and unciform bone, were removed. The thumb and forefinger were saved; fair movement was preserved. Clement's patient was a married woman, 32 years old, and the tumour- reached to witliin two inches of Poupart's ligament; its circumference was tliii-ty-foui- and a half inches. A short anterior flap was made by transfixing the limb, and a longer one cut from behind. On the third day the line of incision had united m nearly its whole extent, and at the end of a month she was on crutches. The growth was a soft, liver-like substance, intersected