5 MANUALS, GENERAL TREATISKS, ETC. its properties and composition, as well as its final metamorpliosis and disappearance, is briefly alluded to. Dalton made an artificial duodenal fistula on a dog, and with its aid studied the biliary function. He says that bile passes into the intestine in by far the largest quantity immediately after feeding, and within the first hour. After that time, its discharge remains pretty constant; not varying very much from sixteen grains of solid biliary matters per hour. The discharge of bile into the intestines continues even after the animal has been kept for many days without food. From these facts Dalton concludes that the bile is simply an excrementitious fluid, containing only ingredients resulting from the disintegration of the animal tissues, and not intended to perform any particular function, digestive or otherwise. Section 2 is devoted to the consideration of the nervous system, and Section 3 to reproduction; both contain much interesting matter. Todd's CycLOPiEDiA or Anatomy and Physiology, a work which has been no less than twenty-four years in progress, is now completed. The new titlepages, preface, and index, are contained in the parts just published. Humphry, in his large work on the descriptive anatomy of the skeleton, tells us whi/ such a bone is of such a form—why it has a facet on one particular point and not on another—why a tendon is inserted into this, and not into that ridge—why the inner plate of the skull is denser than the outer, &c., &c. From this it will be seen that the book is intended for the use of those who wish to learn something more than the bare facts of anatomy. ('British Medical Journal,' p. 228, 1859.) Ward, and Holden's works are new editions of manuals already m the hands of many of our readers. They are chiefly intended by their authors for the use of the student. In the second part of Eckhard's 'Contributions to Anatomy and Physiolog/ are to be found original papers on the nerves and electric organs of the torpedo, on hydro-diffusion, on the endos- mose of common salt, and on the theory of the cause of the heart's action. The first edition of Hyrtl's 'Anatomy' appeared in 1847, and not- withstanding its size and price, before ten years have elapsed a third edition has been caUed for. The first half of the work is devoted