8 REPORT ON THE INSTITUTES OF MEDICINE. In his text-book on physiology, Ludwig limits himself ahnost entirely to the consideration of the chemistry and physics of hfe, and thereby presents a striking contrast to the views advocated by Healcj in his book on the vital causes. Ludwig remarks, in his preface, that pathologists are often complaining of the unpractical direction of physical physiology, forgetting that physiology can never be of much use to pathology until it has solved the problem of " healthy life." Wlien the medical practitioner thoroughly under- stands a healthy process, he will readily discover the conditions requiring to be changed in order to reproduce in a diseased part a normal healthy action. It is not, he says, in the dead-house, but in the physiological laboratory, that the fundamental laws of diseased, as well as healthy, action must be studied. In the first section of the first volume, the elements, and the organic compounds out of which the human body is built, are considered, and in the second part, the nerves and muscles, as well as the physiology of the senses, are treated of. The second volume, on the other hand, is devoted to the development and decay of the tissues and fluids of the body, and concludes with a chapter on animal heat. When on the elements entering into the composition of the human body, the author remarks, that as often as we analyse the animal organs and tissues, we are forced to the conclusion that they are ultimately composed of a very small proportion of chemical atoms, associated with light, heat, and electricity. Prom which circumstance we are forced to conclude, that the animal phenomena are the result of the same forms of simple attraction and repulsion which are observed in all elementary bodies. It having been ascer- tained that by the action of heat, light, electricity, and other chemical agents, all the organic animal compounds may be decomposed, and that this decomposition does not directly yield the elements them- selves, but only the "immediate principles," physiologists as well as chemists have come to the conclusion, that the complex organic combinations winch we find in the tissues are not the result of the direct union of simple elements, but of a series of compounds, which are themselves aggregations of individual atoms. The fhst ele- ment which Ludwig considers is oxygen—a gas which, as is well known, is found in every part of the animal body, in the fluids as well as in the sohds, both in a free, and in a combined state; but which was not supposed until very recently to occiu- in the form of ozone. Schonbem was the first to call attention to this fact; and a