4.75 PUBLIC HYGIENE. c. Meat and Sausages. On the Nature of the Sausage Poison, and the Poison sometimes found in Smoked Meat. (Casper, 13, i.) Fifty per cent, of the cases of poisoning by sausages or smoked meat occur in April, a fact wliicli points towards the conclusion that the poison is a product of decomposition resulting from the influence of an increasing temperature. All attempts to save persons poisoned by these products of decomposition have hitherto proved unavailing. Yan Den Corput beheves the poisonous principle to be an elementary plant, an alga or fungus, belonging to the Sarcinae, for which he proposes the name of Sarcina hotulina. The phos- phorescence observed on decomposing organic matter is also due to cryptogamic plants—Khizomorphse. Tliis fact was first noticed by Heller, who termed the microscopic alga Sarcina noctiluca, and as- certained that it belonged to the group of the Isocarpeae. d. Fish. WolflF.—Poisoning of several Persons by Fried Sturgeon-liver. (Casper, 14, 2.) A healthy young woman, a boy seven years old, and two female servants, were taken ill four hoiu-s after having partaken of fried stm-geon's liver. The symptoms were violent headache ; pulsation and pricking in the temples; sweUing of the whole face, the sur- face of which became dark-red and very hot; violent burning in the nose, mouth, tongue, and throat; red, painful eyes; noises in the ears; a white-coated tongue, and gTeat inchnation to vomit. After four days of appropriate medical treatment the symptoms disap- peared, and desquamation of the epidermis and of the epithelium of the cavities of mouth and nose, as in scarlatina, began. The other members of the same family, who had only eaten of the flesh of the sturgeon, but not of the Hver, had no signs of indisposition. e. Wine. Chevallier.—On Plastered Wine. Researches made by Order of the Minister of War. (Ann. d'llyg., No. 19.) On the Plastering of Wine, the Effects of Plastered Wine upon the Economy, and the Value of such Wine as a Beverage. Should Plastering be permitted, or considered as a Falsification ? (lb., 20.)