REPORT ON PRACTICAL MEDICINE. 150 when tlie malady is declining, as, c. g., in sthenic cases two days after the venesection. 'Neem, or Manjosa (Meliacea;), found abundantly in India, is a tree M'liose bark is extensively used by the natives as a tonic and anti- periodic, in skin diseases, old ulcers, &c. Otto Veit gives a good description of hsemorrhagic measles, as observed by Mmself. He met with it eleven times in 160 cases. Bad hygienic circumstances did not appear to exert any notable influence in producing it, nor were the cases in which it occurred particularly grave, or in any other way peculiar. The spots, about the second or fourth day of the exanthem, assume a deeper colour, and gradually become dark, or even black. Their dimensions vary, some are like flea-bites, others as large as peas or beans (spht). Some form bands or patches of large size. They retain their deep colour for a day or two, and then undergo the same changes as ecchymoses. The at- tendant fever was generally sthenic. Brauw and Beoeks recommend the old but disused practice of applying ligatures to the lunbs in intermittent fever. By inter- rupting the paroxysm, the habit of continuance of the disease is broken. It may be sufficient to hgature two Umbs, but in obstinate cases it is better to act with fom-. Heyfelder observed, at the Military Hospital at Helsiugfors, and at the Workmen's Hospital at St. Petersbm-g, a general prevalence of diphtheritic exudation on the wounds of the patients. An ill- looking, -whity yellow layer formed on their sm-faces, wliich adliered beneath to the tissues, was sometimes di-y and consistent, sometunes of pultaceous aspect. In crowded, unheahhy hospitals, the morbid state was evidently contagious, its spread bemg averted by removal of those affected, and originating from the introduction of a sufi'erer into a ward previously free from it. Crusell's pyro-caustic, and Pagliovi's hemostatic fluid, were found very useful. GuNSBERG has used colchicine for five years in the treatment of gout. He gives one-sixtieth graui ier (He. It pui-ges briskly, and makes the attacks of much rarer occurrence. In acute rhemnatism it has been of no avail. Bamberger records the following interestuig facts relative to variola, and its co-existence with other diseases. A scarlet-fever patient was taken to the ward set apart, for variolous cases, whicli had been unused for six weeks, continually aerated and fumigated with cldorine. As soon as the patient had arrived at the stage of