HEAD AND NECK. 279 Erichsen.—A Clinical Lecture on the Surgical Diagnosis of Difficult Deglutition. Lancet, Ahirch 26tli, 1859. Addison and Foi'Ster.—Stricture of the (Esophagus in a Child from swallowing a Corrosive Fluid; Threatened Starvation ; Gastrotomy; Death. lb. PuiEDBERG describes a dissection of a case of double hare-lip, with cleft palate and microplitlialmos, and states that after operations on the hare-hp the cleft in the palate often closes spontaneously. Waed says the cleft ran horizontally backwards from the natural position of the right commissure of the lips to the anterior border of the masseter muscle. Its edges were pared, the fissure was closed Avith twisted sutures, and perfect union took place. De Meric's patient was a prostitute, -whose health was broken by privation, excesses, and by the abuse of mercury, which she had taken by a friend's advice. The canula was removed on the third day. ^ Waud relates that a boy, three years old, fell down stairs with a piece of wood in his hand, wluch ran into his mouth and tore nearly the whole of the soft palate from the bone. The loose flap had an attaclunent a quarter of an inch broad, just above the right tonsil. Under cldoroform, the torn part was secured in position with four stitclies. Baizeau di\ades clefts of the palate into those which are acquii'ed, as by wounds, Src, and those wliich are coiigenital. Wlien of small extent, cauterization may suffice to close them. The various obtm-ators wliicli have been devised for larger clefts ai-e described, and the different autoplastic operations are sketched out. _ TiDDES performed complete extirpation of the organ for car- cmoma, and the patient, a woman, tliirty-live years old, recovered. Deglutition was but little impaired, and speech still sufficiently ])reserved to allow her to engage in conversation. The importance of securing one lingual artery before the other is divided is pointed out. THOMPso^-'s is a case of acute tonsiUitis. The tlu-oat was lanced by a surgeon; no pus escaped, but about a pint of blood was lost. Next day another lancing, and another bleeding, to half a pint. On the second day she was admitted into the Marylebone Infirmary, and that night had a profuse hEemorrhage, to the extent of three pmts and a half. Thompson found a smaU opening in front of the right tonsil, from which the blood was rapidly flowing; this he compressed with his fijiger till he coidd apply the solution of iron,