REPORT ON SURGERY, 293 measure was successfully adopted. In each of tliem, after slitting up the inguinal canal, the sac was found behind the interior ring, drawn doM'n and opened. Perhin's case Avas an old, strangulated, scrotal hernia, deduction in a warm bath on the fourth dny. The inguinal canal free from swelling, but a moveable membranous fold could yet be felt in it. Symptoms unrelieved; death. The sac contained a little seriun; the neck, greatly contracted, admitted a goosequill only; it cor- responded Avith the exterior ring. There was a second, narrow sac occupying the whole length of the inguinal canal, and in it a flaccid, broM'nish-red loop of gut, attached to the sac by recent adhesioiLS. ILvKTiXG says, the heruial tumoiu-, when first seen, consisted of an upper and a lower part, separated by a constriction; the lower could be partly reduced, but not the upper. At the time of the operation, on the third day, this distinction no longer existed. A brownish-red loop of gut outside the external inguinal ring was returned after division of this part, but came down agaui with every movement of the patient. The symptoms persisted, and death ensued. A large loop of bowel was found in a pouch of the sac formed by the detachment of the fascia transversalis from the trausversalis muscle. Davies reports four cases of femoral and two of ventral hernia, treated by invnginating the integument with a metallic suture. One death took place on the fifth day from perforating ulcer of the colon, unconnected with the operation. The other cases were all successful. He tliinks the occasional failure of Wutzer's operation depends on the non-obliteration of the back of the inguinal canal—" the gut shps down behind the plug." This happens because the pres- sure of the instrument is almost Avholly exerted upon the front of the canal. By adopting a plug, the lower part of which expands on turning a liandle, and so presses upon the back of the canal, Davies has sought to overcome this cause of faihu-e. He appends an analytical table of forty cases. LisTEu's first patient, a dock-labourer, jet. 56, had had a right, oblique, inguinal hernia eight years. The external abdominal nng was relaxed, and the inguinal canal much shortened. Wutzer's operation was performed, and Rotiimund's instrument employed. Tliis was reapplied with a longer needle on the third day, havnig ^.lipped on account nf the shortness of the needle first used. On tlio