65 RESPIRATION. it with suitable reagents, he found that it contained cliloride of sodium, uric acid, urate of soda, and also urate of ammonia, as well as a small quantity of urea. He was even able to obtain these sub- stances in a crystalline form. Eernet and Meyee have both studied the influence of the salts in the blood on the absorption and exhalation of the gases. Experi- ments with carbonic acid and an aqueous solution of carbonate of soda showed, that while one part of the gas is chemically com- bined, the other remains free in the solution. The quantity of gas remaining in solution is, however, smaller than (according to Dalton's law) it would be in pure water. The more concen- trated the solution, the less free gas. The carbonate of soda, by combining with the carbonic acid, becomes a bicarbonate. A somewhat similar result is obtained with carbonic acid gas and a solution of phosphate of soda. When the salt used, however, is chloride of sodium, no chemical combination is observed to take place—^physical absorption only occurs. The serum of ox-blood behaves towards carbonic acid gas in the same way as the solutions of carbonate and phosphate of soda. A solution of carbonate of soda, or of phosphate of soda, takes up a quantity of oxygen greater than that taken up by pure water. A solution of common salt, on the other hand, absorbs less; and serum, again, chemically unites with a quantity of oxygen, over and above what it retains physically mixed with it. Nitrogen is absorbed by all the solutions, according to Dalton's law only. If blood be long exposed to a stream of carbonic acid gas, the blood-corpuscles are destroyed, whereas they are not affected by either oxygen or hydrogen gas. Smith's aim in this communication is to show the variations in the influence of food. His method of inquiry is, to take a moderate quantity of a single article of food alone, before breakfast, whilst the body is at rest and in a sitting postui-e, and to deter- mine the influence every ten or fifteen minutes during a period of about two hours. The results obtained led the author to conclude 1st. Tliat pure starch scarcely increases the amount of carbonic acid evolved; but with the addition of gluten.and sugar, as in the cereals, causes an increase of about two grains per minute. 2d. Eats lessen the amount of carbonic acid evolved, but increase pulsation. 3d. Sugars increase the exlialation of carbonic acid to the maximum extent of from 1-5 to 2-5 grains per minute in 5