REPOilT ON PRACTICAL MEDICINE, 218 food, wliich produced nausea or vomiting. After the administration of turpentine five lumbrici were vomited; after this the vomiting became continual. Although evidently sinking, she was buoyant and cheerful in spirits, and Avalked down one flight of stairs two days before her death. A tumour, of the size of an orange, extremely sensitive to pressure, was discovered the day before she died, but it vanished in a few hours. At the post-mortem the only morbid state of any consequence that was found was a mass of round worms, 365 in number, occupying the small intestines, except a few which were in the caecum. In some observations on pica, or dirt-eating of children, Coimi- GAN records tlu-ee cases, in two of Avhich it came out that the cliild was in the habit of swallowing gravel, and in tlie third, clay and twine. The symptoms often resemble those that usher in tuber- cular meningitis, hydrocephalus, or mesenteric disease. Case of perforating ulcer of the duodenum, recorded by "\A all- MA>-N. The subject was a soldier, who had long suffered from periodic gastric pain. One day he suddenly fell on the ground during a paroxysm; the symptoms for a short Avliile were incon- siderable, but soon fatal peritonitis declared itself. The stomach was healthy; there were two ulcers in the duodenum, one of which, on the posterior wall of the gut, had made a small per- foration. GiEDWooD records some cases illustrating the occurrence of diarrhcEa and dysentery coetaneously with conception. In one patient diarrhoea sef in, together with pregnancy, on eight succes- sive occasions. In a second intractable dysenteric diarrhoea set m, and continued until abortion occurred at the fourth month. In a third, severe dysentery and vomiting, M'ith burning in the tliroat and stomach, appeared soon after the cessation of the catamema. Bepeated leeching of the abdomen, over the tender caput cjeci, was employed, and the symptoms gradually subsided. Delivery took place at the full period. A case of ulceration of the duodenum, proving fatal by erosion of the pyloric artery, is recorded by Eanking. The symptoms were chiefly those of chronic functional dyspepsia, vith loss of flesh and strength, until ha;morrhage set in, and caused fatal prostration. The patient was a male, fct. 50. Heslop contributes a paper on the cerebro-spinal symptomatology of worms. After detailing in abstract fifty cases, he describes as