EErOllT ON LEGAL MEDICINE, ETC. 410 9. Colchicum. Cilsc of Fatal Poisoning by Colchicum Wine. (Phaim., Feb., 438.) A cliildj aged nine inouthsj was taken ill with diarriifi;;!, to relieve which, tlie mother scut for a pennyworth of antiuionial wine. But the shopboy served colchicum wine instead, and of this the child took successively fifteen, twelve, and ten drops. After the discovery of the mistake, by the non-production of vomiting, an emetic was administered. But the child died early on the fol- lowing morning. 10. Indian Hemp {HascJiisch). Croudare,—Case of Catalepsy from an Overdose of Indian Hemp. (Med. Times, I35-) . ... SchrofF.—Case of Poisoning with Haschisch. (Pharra., Aug., 125 ; from Dublin Quart. Journ.) The case by Crou&aue is that of a young Indian, eighteen years of age, wlio in the' morning had been seen smoking bhang, or guujah, i.e. Indian hemp. He was found unconscious. The limbs could be placed in any position, and remained in it until moved again. This lasted for three days. After that he gradually recovered. ScHUOFF reports at great length the symptoms experienced by Heiurich, liis assistant, who had taken ten grains of a new description of Indian-hemp extract, called "birmingi," which had been obtained tlu-ough an apothecary, Dr. Steege, of Bucliarest, and was labelled, besides the name, with "produces laughter, ten grains." Ii'ritatiou of the tlii-oat, eructation, and slight nausea, foUowed the chewing of the extract. After two hours he began to talk irrationally. The excitement passed into sadness, anxiety, and a feeling as if of approaching death. Paro'xysms of un- consciousness foUowed. AVater had been drunk in large quantities. The flow of ideas was most extraordinary, confirming the opinion that preparaiions of Indian hemp exceed those of every other known a£?( lit in their immediate exciting action upon the imagi- nation. But they seem to be so uncertain in their remedial action, that the physician must, in every instance, use them with great caution.