234 REPORT ON PRACTICAL MEDICINE. ture wliicli tlie mucous lining undergoes, and on the different soui'cc of the capillary plexus of the bronchi and air-cells, which lie thuiks are fidly adequate to account for the distinctness of the two diseases. O'Daly speaks very favorably from his experience of the use of tincture of laricis (larch-bark) in pulmonary haemorrhage and in epistaxis. It succeeded wlien other remedies failed. A case of syphilitic laryngeal disease, in which tracheotomy was successfully performed, recorded by "Whauton. In a paper 'On some of the Effects of Primary Cancerous Tumours within the Chest,' Budd draws special attention to the inflammatory changes which liad occurred, such as pleural tliickeu- ing, inflammatory disorganization of the pulmonary tissue and the formation of pockets of pus, adhesion of the pericardium, and abun- dant effusion of lymph on its outer sm-face. He attributes these changes to the destruction of the pulmonary nerves by the cancerous tumour, wliich in all the cases was situated at and involved the root of the right lung, and states that inflammation of the gall-bladder is probably also caused sometimes in the same way, by cancerous tumours in the portal notch of the liver. GooDFELLOW records two cases of empyema, illustrating the advantage of making two openings, and adopting the plan^ of " drainage," in the operation of paracentesis. The pus flows off as it is formed, and does not decompose. CorroN, after carefully observing the action of Potassii lodidum upon twenty-five phtliisical patients, found that it was productive of no noticeable efl'ect, except that it occasionally caused dyspepsia and some loss of weight. Gull records tlu-ee cases in which gangrenous pneumonia appears to have supervened in consequence of aneurismal, cancerous, or fibroid tumoui's having involved the root of the lung and tlie corre- sponding nervous plexus. In each case one lung was affected. DIGESTIVE SYSTEM. Brinton —Tlie Diseases of the Stomach, pp. 406. Churchill, 1S59. T eared —On the Treatment of Tapeworm. Med. Times and Gaz., Jan. 15th, iS^fJ. riemin'g.-Note on a new mode of treating Severe Dyspepsia and Chronic Inflam- mation of the Stomach. lb., Jan. 29th, 1859. wiiipT—On Diphlherite. lb., Jan. 29th, Feb. sth and 12th, 1859- HutchillS0n.-l3 " Ulcerative Stomatitis" a Diphtheritic Affection ? lb., March 19th, 1859.