» REPORT ON THE INSTITUTES OF MEDICINE. Wittich-—Ueber das Verhalten der Farbstoffc, insbesondere der Carminliisung in Beruhrung mit todteii organiscben Zellen. [On tbe Colouring of Tissues by means of Carmine.] (Kiinigsb. med. Jabrb., i. Parts i and 2, p. 197. Canstatt, vol. 1, p. 201.) Aeby-—Ueber die Sympliysis ossium pubis des Menschcn nebst Beitragen zur Lehre vom hyalinen Knorpel und seiner Verknbcherung. [On the Human Pubis and Ossification of Cartilage.] (Henle und Pfeufer's Zeitschr. f. rat. Med. Vol. iv, parts i and 2, p. i. Canstatt, vol. i, p. 201.) Heidelberg, 1858. Gerlach-—Mikroskopische Studien aus dem Gebiete der menschlichen Morphologic. [Histological Researches.] Erlangen, 1858. Billroth-—Ueber die Epithelialzellen der Froschzunge, sowie iiber den Bau der Cylinder- und Flimmerepitlielien und ihr Verhiiltniss zum Bindegewebe. [On Epithelium.] (Miiller's Archiv, 1858. Canstatt, vol. i, p. 201.) Berlin-—Ueber die Blutkorperchen haltigen Zellen Archiv f. d. holland. Beitr. z. Natur- u. Heilkundeherausg. v. Bonders u. Berlin. [On Cells containing Blood-corpuscles.] Utrecht, 1857. pp. 356. (Canstatt, vol. i, p. 203.) B-adlkofer-—Ueber die wahre Natur der Dotterplattchen. [The Ovum.] (Siebold's u. Kiilliker's Zeitschr. f. wiss. Zool. Vol. ix, p. 529. Canstatt, vol. i, p. 203.) Bemak-—Ueber die Theilung der Blutzellen beim Embryo. [On the Dividing of the Blood-corpuscles in the Embryo.] (Miiiler's Ajchiv, 1858, p. 178. Eight plates. Canstatt, voL i, p. 203.) Dalton's work on physiology is a large book of more than six hundred pages^ illustrated with 254 woodcuts. He adopts Eobin and Verdeil's plan of dividing the constituents of the body into immediate principles and anatomical elements. The work contains several original observations. In the preface the author says that it is ofPered to the profession of the United States as a means of communicating, in a condensed form, such new facts and ideas in physiology as have recently marked the progress of the science. Many of the topics discussed being of great practical importance to the practitioner, as likely to influence in various ways his views on pathology and therapeutics. Of the 254 illustrations in the book, only eleven have been borrowed from other writers. In the chapter on food, the author calls special attention to the importance of the inorganic ingredients; points out the inefficiency of amylaceous and fatty substances, when used alone; describes the bad effects of an exclusive non-nitrogenous diet; and, lastly, alludes to the advantages, and even occasional necessity of cooking. The nature of the digestive process, the apparatus by winch it is accom- plished, both in man and the different species of animals, as well as the successive changes the food undergoes in the intestinal canal, is fidly gone into. The existence of sugar in the liver of all animals, its percentage,