ON THE OBGANS OF SENSE. 61 be "read ofF" on the graduated face of the dial-plate. The ad- vantage of tliis instrument over those which have hitherto been used for similar purposes consists in the readiness of measurement, owing to the great length of the graduations on the dial-plate, the faciUty with wliich, with one hand, the measurements may be taken, and the greater ease afforded in measuring contactile discriminative power about the joints or parts where irregularity or convexity of the surface exists.^ Battye entitles his communication 'An Experimental Inquiry into the existence of a Sixth Sense. To which are added Researches upon the Psychal Functions of the Cerebrum in relation to all the Senses.' The author's sixth sense resides chiefly in and about joints, as standing in opposition to or residing in muscles—" resistance or strength being considered the normal state of the sense, and weight as the abnormal." Fechner and Yolkmann's experiments were made with the view of ascertaining if the power of distinguishing the intervening dis- tance of two points placed on the skin could be increased by training. They found that after making several experiments on the left arm, the right became more sensible to distances—and so with the sense of touch. After practising with the fingers of one hand, those of the other gained in sensitiveness. From this they conclude that trammg chiefly afi^ects the central nervous system. Fechner adds thereto, that training of the muscles of one side of the body to any particular movement increases the same powers on the opposite side. Volkmann found that removing the scarf-skin rendered the sense of touch more acute. WuNDi^'s paper is entirely devoted to a theoretical exposition of the sense of touch. Kammler, on the other hand, relates experi- ments to show that the skin of the brow and neck is the most sensitive to shght weights, while that of the palm and back of he hand is to heavier ones. This, he says, is a proof that the acuteness of this sense does not depend upon the number of tactile papillae. (Canstatt's Jahrs.)