Ill ANAESTHESIA. Eichardson.—The same. Med. Times and Gaz., June 25th, p. 647. Waller.—The same. Med. Times and Gaz., July 30th, p. 107. Felikan et SavielieflF.—Comment comprendre rintroduction de differents medi- caments dans rorgaiiisme au moyen du courant galvanique. [How are we to explain tlie Introduction of Substances into the Body by means of Galvanism ?] (Jour, de Physiol., vol. i, pp. 192—200.) Todd (Armstrong).—Remarks on the Administration of Chloroform, with a Description of a new Inhaler. Med. Times and Gaz., 9th July, 1859, p. 30; also at pp. loi and 537. Ozanam.—Note sur les inhalations d'acide carbonique consideree corame anesthe- sique efficace et sans danger. [Carbonic Acid Gas as an Anaesthetic] Compt. Rend., vol. xlvi, 1858, No. 8, pp. 417—420. Canstatt, vol. i, p. 105. Herpin.—Note sur I'emploi du gaz carbonique comme agent anesthesique. [The same.] Compt. Rend., vol. xlvi, March, 1858, No. 12, pp. 581—584. Canstatt, p. 105. Baehrens.—De Anaestheticis nonnulla. 8vo. Beroftni, 1857. [Some Remarks on Anjesthetics. Already known.—Valentin.] Daub.—De Ansestheticis nonnulla. 8vo. Berolini, 1857. [The same. Patho- logical. No abstract.] Geutebruck.—Ueber die Anaesthetica. 8vo. Marburg, 1858. [On Anaesthesia. A compilation.—Valentin.] Secke.—De morte chloroformio inducto. 8vo. Berolini, 1858. [On Death by Chloroform. Already known.—Valentin.] Eirsten.—Nonnulla de chloroformio. 8vo. Lipsice, 1858. [On Chloroform as an Anaesthetic. Already known.—Valentin.] RiCHAUDSON begins by saying, that the electric current in no one of its applications can be made to produce insensibility to pain— although, the interrupted cm-rent, by producing counter shocks in sudden operations, such as tooth-extraction, may remove the idea or the consciousness of pain, by a diversion of sensation. He proposes a new mode of producing anaesthesia, wliicli he calls voltaic narcotism. The following experiment illustrates the mode in which this is applied : The upper part of a dog's Umb, after being freed from hair, is wrapped in a broad, copper band, including a sponge saturated with a solution composed of, tincture of aconite, 5iij; alcoholic extract of aconite, 9j; chloroform, ^iij, A third part of the solution is put on the sponge at one time. Below the ankle of the same limb is wrapped another band of copper, also including a sponge, but which contains merely water. This done, the upper plate is connected with the positive, the lower with the negative pole of the battery. In eleven minutes the parts included between the poles are so insensible, that they can be pricked or cut without the animal giving any signs of pain. Richardson applied voltaic narcotism in a similar way, to the