187 NERVOUS SYSTEM. of initation. In the first case the operation had to be repeated, and in the other cases there is no proof given that the relief from para was permanent. Paravicixi recommends in cases of mental neui-algia, division of the dental nerve before its entrance into the bony canal, Avhich he states can be easUy effected. Gjob has given a contribntion to onr knowledge of . nervous disorders produced by syphihs. He reports thirty cases, M^hich he divides into two classes—(a) those in wliich paralysis came on wliile manifest signs of syphihs were still present; (b) those in which they had disappeared, and treatment had been omitted for a longer or shorter time. A restme of existing knowledge respecting hydrophobia is given by Thamhayx. It is well worth reference by inquirers, but is far too long for our limits. A curious case of " saltatory reflex convulsions" (as he terms the state) is recorded by Bamberger. The patient Avas a youth, pet. 19, convalescent from pneumonia. As soon as he touched the ground with, his feet all the muscles of the lower extremities fell into a state of tetanic rigidity, interrupted by the most violent sudden contractions, which threw the patient upwards, and diu-iiig then- rapid recurrence increased in intensity, so that the patient had to be supported. At the same time the face was flushed and dis- torted; the pidse accelerated and extremely forcible; distress was experienced, but no pain, only great exhaustion after the attack. The moment that the patient sat or lay down aU the'movements ceased. If, while lying in bed, the soles of his feet were pressed, the same phenomena appeared, but with mucli less intensity. After some days the distortion of the features became permanent, tlie tongue was put out and withdrawn hastily and by jerks, the heart's action, even during rest, was violent, the respiration panting, both irides rapidly contracted and dilated, trembling movements came on m the right foot, the reflex contractions were produced by touching any part of the feet, and affected even the unirritated foot All else was normal, there was no tenderness in the course of the spine. Bamberger regarded the symptoms as dependent on undue reflex excita])ihty of the spinal cord, and prescribed sedatives and cold affusion. The disorder was at fii-st increased, but by steady perseverance in the same was gradually subdued. A shght attack of typhus preceded complete recovery. A similar case oc-