POISONS AND POI.SONING. 447 greatly increased close of the alkaloid mixed witli fat, uo effect was produced. A soldier, after a debauch, took a sixpenny packet of " Battle's Lincoln vermin killer/' Tetanic spasms came on, and a mustard emetic was given him. Vomiting almost immediately ensued, and was kept up. He was removed to the hospital, where, after a great number of severe spasms and general tetanic fits, he gradually recovered. The packet contained about three grains of strychnia. The account of this case, which occmred at Winchester, M^as trans- raitted by the author (Smith) from India. The case of poisoning by stryclinia occurred to Simon, of Alker, in Belgium. A child seven years old, to whom santonine had been prescribed, died of strychnia, supplied by a druggist instead of tlie santonine. A chemist, who took strychnia for self-destruction, died with the usual tetanic symptoms, 32. SulpJmrio Acid. Three Cases of Fatal Poisoning by Sulphuric Acid. (Guy's, 134.) A man, set. 56, had drank, by mistake, about a dessert-spoonful of oil of vitriol. The usual antidotal treatment was adopted. The symptoms were mild, but on the fourth day he died unexpectedly. Mouth and oesophagus were of a yeUow colour; and the walls of tlie oesophagus enormously swoUen. The stomach contained a yellow fluid; its fmidus was in a slougliing condition. The charring of the stomach ended at the pylorus. No poison was discoverable. The second case exhibited the effects of dilute sulphuric acid, and was fatal in eleven days. The woman, ast. 55, had drunk a wineglassful of dilute vitriol (one acid to fom- water) upon an empty stomach. She became collapsed, ahnost pulseless, cold, aiid unable to swallow the magnesia which was prescribed. Reaction occurred: after two hours she vomited blood and passed blood by tlie bowels. After manifesting a variety of symptoms she died unexpectedly. The mucous membrane of the stomach was found entirely detached by sloughing. The third case occurred to a child, st. 17 months, to whom her mother, m mistake for syrup of buckthorn, administered a tea-