heport on practical medicine. 203 the possibility of a primary rlieiiraatic mania camiot be denied, since there is certainly a primary rheumatic endocarditis. Moreover, rheumatic chorea, so common in cliildren, is closely related to cere- bral rheumatism. It is not unfrequently complicated with deHrium; and in a case reported by Mesnet, together with rheumatic dehrium and insanity, persistent clonic convulsions were present. A case of tetanus, not apparently traumatic, in which the patient became extremely emaciated and exhausted, but recovered under the pretty free use of stimulants, is recorded in the ' British Medical Journal,' August aoth, 18^9. A case of rotatory convulsion in a child, aged four and a half years, suffering under strumous hydrocephalus, is recorded by Minchin. In the surface of the left cerebellar hemisphere was a firm, oval tubercle, of the size of an almond, adherent to the dura mater, and at the corresponding point on the right there was a rough, tubercular elevation of the dui-a mater. The day before death the body rolled longitudinally from left to right for several minutes at once four times in the course of the day. Schramm, from 1854 to 1858, observed 195 cases of nem-algia of the fifth pair, of the particulars of which he gives a summary. His field of observation was Bodenwolu?, in the Palatinate, where malarious disease is endemic. The affection sometimes supervened instantly on the cessation of some other disorder. Quinine and car- bonate of iron, given in small doses, quickly succeeding each other, were successful in the majority of cases. In obstinate cases, arsemc was invaluable. In Ogle's case the symptoms were the result of compression of certain lateral parts of the brain, from an intra-cranial aneu- rism. Ogle believes that the aneiurism produced irritation of the crus cerebelli, from whence the morbid inhibitory action was trans- mitted to certain motor fibres on the other side of the brain, whidi were consequently prevented from discharging their function. The term "induced cerebral" he prefers to those employed by BroAm- Sequard, who fii-st proposed this hypothesis to account for cases of paralysis occurring on the same side as the lesion. The aneurism iu the case in question was of the size of a small nutmeg, proceeded from the anterior cerebellar artery, and rested immediately upon the inferior siuface of the left middle crus cerebelli. The fifth and seventh nerves were pressed upon by the aneurism, tire latter benig especially implicated and stretched.