249 DIGESTIVE SYSTEM. follows the phenomena of a typical case of verminous disorder: "A man, with a jjale face^ but fair embonpoint^ presents himself, complaining of dull headache, not limited to any particular region of the cranium, but perhaps more marked in the frontal region than elsewhere. Tliis headache does not offer any marked exacerbations or remissions, but is almost constant, and sufficiently severe, Avith- out being excruciating, to render life, if not a burthen, at least uidiappy. Giddiness is so severe that he often staggers about like one intoxicated, and when tliis symptom is present to a less degree there is still almost continuously a sense of confusion and insecurity, A\hich renders Avalking a serious effort. The ears are affected with a constant buzzing and a great variety of noises, described some- times as being like that produced by the boiling of a teakettle, sometimes like the letting-off of steam from a boiler, not rarely like the rumbling of thunder. The acuteness of the sense of hearing is at the same time unimpau-ed. His vision is dull. Kne webs seem to be constantly before the eyes, so that every object wears a hazy aspect; at other times dark spots, or brilliant flashes, obstruct Aision. Case of medullary cancer of the oesophagus, which ulcerated into the pericardium, producing pericarditis and death, recorded by TiRTH. The patient was a female, eet. 36; her illness extended over seven months. On admission, she could only swallow tliin fluids, but after dilatation with oesophagus bougies, she was able to take finely minced solids. In spite of a liberal diet she did not iniprove; the use of the bougies had to be discontinued, on account of acute pain, and soon even swallowing became so distressing that beef-tea enemata were resorted to. At the post-mortem a massy, sliining, milky growth was found, of annular form, commencing opposite the bifurcation of the trachea, and terminating foiu and a half inches below. At about the middle, on the left side, a round, ulcerated opening led into the upper part of the pericai-dial cavity! Tiie stomach was healthy. Bergeron, from observation of an epidemic of stomatitis ulcerosa in the French army, describes the disease as a specific, contagious malady, characterised by ulcers of various form and extent, which may develop themselves on all points of the buccal mucous mem- brane, but pnncipally attack the gums and the inside of the cheeks and are constantly attended by an abundant flow of saliva, most otlensive breath, and more or less marked swelling of the sub-