MANUALS, GENERAL TREATISES, ETC. 11 that continued, and this, Bernard thinks, depended more on a mecliauical infiltration than on a true secretion. In the second part of the volume Bernard, speaking of liis already pubhshed experiments'on the pressure of the blood in the arteries, remarks that when the cervical sympathetic is divided, the pressure in the carotid artery increases, the temperature of the part of the body supplied by it is heightened, and the blood in the veins remains red. Galvanism applied to the cut end of the nerve removes these effects. In the next section, he treats of the effects of secretion on the colour of the blood—a point to be afterwards alluded to under the head " Secretion." In vol. ii Bernard remarks that he found the urine of the rabbit acid after the animal had respired pure oxygen gas. "While speaking of another experiment, he says the quantity of urine which the kidneys of a dog secreted increased as the pressure of the blood in the carotids augmented. The chapters on the perspiration, the bile, the milk, the saliva, and the pancreatic juice, contain, Yalen- tine says, scarcely anything new. In several of them Bernard defends his ovm views, which have been attacked by other writers. Lardner's book "comprehends as much of the elements of chemistry as may, with moderate attention, be acquired within a reasonable time by the younger class of students, and even as much as may suffice for those who, being more advanced in Life, desire merely to obtain a general knowledge of the elements of the material world."—Preface. Lehmann's works on animal chemistry are so well known that it is only necessary to indicate the contents of the present volume. It treats, first, of the nature and properties of the animal fluids; secondly, of the tissues J and thirdly, of the metamorphosis of tissue, &c. Liebig's ' Chemical Letters' are familiar to our readers, in the form of Gregory's translation, a later edition of which has now appeared, edited by Dr. Blyth, and, as stated in the preface, besides extending considerably the former letters, the author has, in the present edition, added a number of new letters, which refer to general scien- tific questions, and to the most remarkable discoveries recently made in the departments of chemistry and physics. Among these are. Letter 2d, on the study of the natural sciences; Letter 13th, on the correlation of the forces of inorganic nature; Letter 15th, on the alteration of properties in bodies; and Letter 23d, on materiahsm in connexion with natural inquiries.