73 llEPORT ON THE INSTITUTES OF MEDICINE. Smith and Bkown-Seqtjaeb call attention to a fact already well known—namely, that starch is transformed into sugar in the stomach. Baudeleben imagines that the gastric juice itself has the power of producing tHs transformation. Other observers believe, however, that when starch is changed into sugar in the stomach, some saliva or mucus secretion fi'om the oesophagus or other part of the digestive canal must have mingled with it, for pure gastric juice out of the stomach has not the power of changmg starch into glucose. Arnold found that uncooked white of egg is not coagulated in the stomach, and that, other thmgs being equal, it is more rapidly digested than hard-boiled. rLOiiEXT Prevost confirms the fact that many birds alter their food at different periods of life; some begin by living on insects, then change to corn, afterwards returning to insects. All ot the tore- going papers contain valuable information. We have not, however, space to give a fidler abstract of them. Btjsch relates the very interesting case of a woman, set. 31, witn a jejunal fistula (wound made by builds horn), on whom he made a series of experiments. He ascertained-ist. That the tem- perature of the intestines does not increase durmg digestion. 2(1. That the sensation of hunger does not depend on the stomach berng empty (She felt hungry even when the stomach was quite tun.) od The peristaltic action of the intestines is not constant, (it entirely ceased fi-om 11 o'clock at night to 4 o'clock in the mormng. This state of repose occurred whether she was asleep or awake; whether she had taken supper or gone to bed fasting.) 4th. AnU- peristaltic as well as peristaltic movements exist, f-'^'f';^'^ Lee is always alkahne. 6th. It transforms starch into sugax but does not change cane-into grape-sugar. 7tt- Albmnen and fibrin are dissolved in the intestines. 8th. A mixture of gastric, pan^atic, and intestinal juices along with bile, dissolves albumen, even when the mixture is neutral or alkahne. LEHMA.-K made a number of experiments on calves, with the vi w of ascertaining if their food contains sufficient ^afy salts for t^^ ^owth of their bones. He has given his results in a t bula^ fZ The foUowing is one of the most instructive of the tables, as it Thows-(a). That the metamorphosis of the tissues during ou^ dTys is tolerably regiilar. (^). That the quantity of the solids exited in the first forty-eight hours is about the same as m the last, although the quantity of water is less.