228 llEPORT ON PRACTICAL MEDICINE. nism between phthisis pulmoiialis and ague. After noticing the observations of previous writers, he remarks that the question \\'oul(l appear to admit of ready solution, by comparing the mortality fron\ phthisis in different districts of a similar cha- racter, except that in some, aguish affections should be prevalent, and in others, that they should be absent or only rarely seen. He objects to a comparison of this kind made by Greenhow, that no account is taken in it " of the relative number of persons at different ages, nor of the influence of climate, though these are most im- portant considerations in estimating the relative prevalence of con- sumption in different localities." He then proceeds : "To effect a satisfactory comparison, the districts compared must not only con- trast as regards the prevalence of ague, but they must possess similar climates, and must correspond in the density of the popu- lation, the proportion of persons at the ages most prone to con- sumption, and in the social position and occupations of the inha- bitants. The population must be but little affected by immigration, and the mortality must not be modified by the existence of large public hospitals,' or institutions in which persons are received from other localities." Peacock beheves that he finds the requisite in- stances in certain districts situate near each other in the counties of Cambridgeshire, Northamptonshire, Huntingdonshire, and Bed- fordshire, and has constructed a table showing the annual pro- portion of deaths from ague and remittent fever combined, from ague only, from phthisis, fi-om other diseases of the respiratory organs, and from all causes, per 100,000 persons of botli sexes, and of each sex separately. The table also includes a statement of the population in 1851, the extent of. the districts, the proportion of persons to the square mile in each, and the relative proportion of persons between the ages of fifteen and forty-five inclusive. The general result afforded by these data is this: "While as a general rule a Cirgc prevalence of aguish affections coincided with a low rate of mortality from consumption, and a small prevalence of ague witli a high rate of mortahty from consumption, this rule is liable to such marked exceptions that we arc not warranted in inferring that the susceptibility to phthisis is in any great degree influenced by the causes which give rise to ague." WiLLEMiN states that diluted carbonic acid gas, employed m iuhalations, is especially efficacious in chronic inflammations, with atonv of the mucous membrane and exaggerated secretion, and in