SECRETORY SYSTEM. 257 passively in connexion with albuminm-ia. "Its curative action is manifested by abundant urine, gradually resuming its physiological characters, by perspiration, early alvine evacuations, return of appe- tite, &c." Its primary action seems to be on the fluids of the economy, " the albuminous principles of which it coagulates and renders plastic," wliile its secondary action on the solids appears to 1)e tonic and astringent. Scott records the results of experiments made on dogs whose gall-bladder was made to open externally by a fistulous orifice after the common duct had been tied. After the normal amount of bile secreted in twenty-four hours had been determined for two days, a large dose of calomel was given, and then the average amount' of bile secreted diu-ing the two succeeding days was ascertained. The result in all the foiu- experiments was the same, viz., that tliere was a diminution in the amount of fluid bile and bile-solids secreted after the administration of large doses of calomel. JacksOxV gives some useful experience respecting the manage- ment of abscesses of the Hver. He warns earnestly against con- tmumg a mercurial coui-se after suppuration has taken place. Heeaud relates two cases of rapidly fatal jaundice, death occur- rmg m one on the sixth and in the other on the eighth day. The autopsy m both showed local jaundice of the Hver in scattered spots • the hepatic cells were normal. There was bloody extravasation mto the cavity, and m the mucous membrane of the stomach and intestines. No other important alteration, except considerable pul- monary congestion. The disease set in, during oppressive, hot weather, Mith headache, vomiting (subsequently bloody), and dee,) depression. Jaundice occurred on the third day. The liver was not enlarged. The cerebral functions were unimpaired A case of clu-onic diuresis, in which the absence of sugar was positively determuied, is recorded by Willshiee. The urine amounted to fifteen pints in the twenty-fovu: houi-s, very pale, sp gr. 1002 quite clear. There was great tliirst, bad appetite, dJv skin. Under treatment by quinine, Tinct. Ferri Miuiat., anil opium, the unne was reduced to six and a half pints daily. Two cases of Addison^s disease are reported in the same number Alexander records five cases of suppression of urine of whicli wo proved fatal. Tlie last was specially remarkable, f r f^ ' weeks not one ounce of water was passed by the patient, a o 10. It did not appear that any deception was practised. No 17