DISEASES AND INJURIES OV THE BONES AND JOINTS. 319 erysipelas, wliich was prevalent at the time, and sank on the twenty, tliird day after the operation. Ericiisen excised the knee of a woman, set. 30, for strumous disease of the joint of foui- years' dm-ation. She progressed favora- bly for tlu-ee weeks after the operation, and then succumbed under an attack of erysipelas. Teegusson's patient, a boy, set. 8, had had strumous disease of the knee-joint during several years. The articular surfaces of the bones were sa-rni off tlu-ough a single incision across the front of the joint. A very useful Umb was obtained. Ceaven says, three and a haK months after the excision the wound had not closed, and no union of the bones had taken place. The tliigh was amputated, by the circular method, in the upper third. Death on the tliu'd day. Kinlock's patient had been bedridden two years. The disease was of long standing. The patella was removed, together with the articular sui-faces of the femur and tibia. A firm bony union, and very iisefid limb was obtained. For five or six days after the operation opium was freely given. In Lister's case the whole bone was carious, and a profuse puru- lent discharge riin fi-om the knee-joint. The pateUa was excised, and the wound healed rapidly. Pour months afterwards the patient was able to walk without a stick, with the support of an elastic knee- bandage only. Adams recommends that, when the joint is distended with pus, free incisions should be made into it. Erichsen relates a case of caries of the calcis, astragalus, and cuboid bones. The diseased bony tissue was gouged away; erysi- pelas supervened, and rendered amputation of the whole foot neces- sary. A good sketch of the surgical anatomy of the tarsus is given and the subject is further illustrated by examples of disease of the various tarsal bones successfully treated with the gouge. Stillma^Vs is a case of caries of the os calcis, foUowing a bruise on the heel The patient had been previously treated for tubercular disease of the left lung in an early stage. Nearly the whole of the canceUous tissue of the bone was gouged away through an incision below and rather behind the external malleolus. The wound healed perfectly, and the lung-disease became stationary. Hancock's lecture contains a report of four cases, three of which were successful. Hancock carries an incision from above and