298 REPORT ON SURGERY, Sautesson relates that a man fell upon a pointed stake, which ran into his perineeum, just in front of the anus. Shortly after the healing of the wound symptoms of stone in the bladder appeared, and on sounding him two large stones were detected. They were removed by lithotomy, and their nuclei consisted of two large pieces of cloth which had been torn from his trousers. Coulson's patient had passed the tube as a bougie into the bladder, and it broke whilst trying to withdraw it. The piece, extracted by lithotomy, measured between three and four inches in length. OPERATIONS FOR STONE IN "WOMEN. Statement of Twenty-four Cases. Med. Times and Gaz., July 23d, 1859. Gendron.—Spontaneous Escape of two considerable Urinary Calculi, in a Case of Vesico-Vaginal Hernia. (Bull, de I'Acad., vol. xxiv, p, 47, Oct., 1858.) Schmidt's Jahrb., vol, 103, No. 8, p. 218. McEwen.—stone in the Bladder of a Female; Fistulous Opening from the Bladder into the Left Groin; Operation j Recovery. (Brit. Med. Journ., Aug. 13th, 1859. Genduon says the stones were discharged through an opening in the wall of the vagina, after long straining. Bladder symptoms had existed during eight years. In McEwen's case the neck of the bladder was occupied by a very large calculus, which obstructed the orifice of the urethra, so that all the urine was passed tlirough the groin. Lithotomy was performed, and a stone weighing two ounces minus eighty grains was extracted; after this a second was discovered; the bladder seemed to be tied around it, and it lay in the right ihac fossa. It was removed A«th some difficulty. Its weight was one ounce five scruples. PARACENTESIS AND INJURIES OF THE BLADDER. Coote, Holmes.—Extravasation of Urine. St. Bartholomew's Hosp. Briti Med. Journ., Nov. 12th, 1859. Paget.—On Retention of Urine, Puncture of the Bladder, and Perineal Section. lb., July 2d, 1859. Holt.—Puncture of the Bladder through the Rectum. Lancet, Jan. 8th, 1859- Mercier.—Observation de retention d'urine, causee par un engorgement de la prostate, datant de neuf annees et gnerie radicalement. [A Case of Retention of Urine, caused by an Engorgement of tlic Prostate of nine years'date, and radically cured.] (Soc. Med. Prat, de Paris, et Union Med., 1857, No. 154.) Canstatt's Jahrb., 1859.