232 IIEPOIIT ON PRACTICAL MEDICINE. incntSj withoui, however, being able to state the special indications that should determine the use of one rather than another. Pollock has a paper on the ' Elements of Prognosis in Phthisis.' He is inclined to consider the average duration of the disease as much greater than has been usually stated, exceeding the period of three years, which is about the medium assigned by liigh authorities. The disease always proceeds by a succession of attacks, even when most rapid. In chronic, diffused tubercle, the deposit often proceeds in the following order ; first, one apex; next, the op- posite ; third, the base of the side last attacked. " The most chronic is, however, often diagonal, as right apex, left base, left apex, right base, successively." A curious result of some thousand observations may be thus stated: " Wlien the observed and customary order of physical signs is reversed, or in any important respect anomalous, the chances of prolonged life are greater The more each case approaches to the ordinary type of the disease, the more rapidly fatal is it sure to be." The presence of the conditions antagonistic to tubercle, or rarely coexisting with it, indicates great prolonga- tion. This is especially true of the complication wiih emphysema. In 190 cases, hereditary predisposition was observed in 69, all these having lasted upwards of four years. An absence of hemo- ptysis Avas noted in 65, and of diarrhoea in 151. Moderate or great emaciation was present in 93, slight in 97. Hyde Salter re\dews the principal remedies we possess for the relief of asthma, enumerating tobacco, cliloroform, opium, Indian hemp, stramonium, lobelia, a?ther. Cldoroform he considers to arrest the astlimatic paroxysm move speedily and certainly than any other remedy. It is to be inhaled, but not to the extent of pro- ducing deep insensibility. It is not safe to allow patients to inhale it themselves. Slramou 'mm is sometimes marvellously efRcacious, but often disappoints the practitioner. This great inconstancy of effect he thinks may depend on the mode of preparing the drug. Tlie varieties Datura ferox and Balura tatula are more powerful than BaHra stramonium. He states, on Alexander's authority, that the seeds arc far more potent than the leaves; they are to be used in smoking cautiously, in small and gradually increasing quan- tities. Salter is in favour of the practice of smoking a pipe every night on going to bed, whether the asthma is threatemng or not. Lobelia has not proved of much benefit in Salter's hands, but he is