133 GKNERAL PATHOLOGY AND SYMPTOMATOLOGY. round granules between the tibres. In the kidneys, the cortical tubes in several places were completely filled with calcareous salts ; the Malpighian bodies, the stroma, and the pyramids, were free. PATHOLOGICAL CHEMISTRY. Eelative to the detection of sugar in the urine, in the normal and in pathological conditions, there are several communications which may be consulted with advantage by those who wish for further information on tliis subject (pp. 93—104). We can only cite the foUowing. Bottger's new test for sugar is, according to Behier, one of the most delicate and reliable, if slightly modified as he pro- poses. The urine is boiled with an equal volume of one part of crystallizedCarb. Sodse in tliree parts of water, and a little basic nitrate of bismuth added. Behier adds also a very small fragment of caustic potash. If sugar is present, the bismuth is reduced, giving a black colour to the mixture ; if there is none, it remains white. Echinococcus fluid examined by Eecklinghausen was colourless, feebly acid, tui-bid, containing flocculi mainly made up of scolices, of sp. gr. i'oi5, free from albumen. In 100 parts there were 97-998 of water, 3'003 of solids. The latter contained nearly half its weight of cliloride of sodium. EoBiN and Verdeil have di-awn attention to a substance occurring in dropsy different from ordinary albumen. This liquid, after addition of sulphate of magnesia and filtering, is rendered turbid by boiling, alcohol, or acids, without coagulating in flocculi like albumen. They requested Gannal to examine tliis substance fui-ther. He states, as the general result of liis inquiry, " That in the morbid effusions of the pleura and peritoneum a substance is found coagu- lable by heat and nitric acid. It is distinguished from serum and albumen by being retained by sulphate of magnesia without being coagulated; from casein by coagulation on heating; and from pan- creatine by not being reddened by chlorine. This substance he names hydropisine. It has not been found in the urine of morbus Brightii. In 100 parts of pleural effusion there were 1670 parts of moist hydropisine, 31-15 of moist albumen. In 100 parts of peritoneal serum there were 14 of moist hydropisine, 34-46 of moist albumen. In many cachectic individuals the pus secreted by wounds is of a greenish colour, and stains the dressings blue. The colouring-