OBSTETRICAL OPERATIONS. 3G3 In two cases oiilvj bad results (convulsions, extreme faintuess) followed. In no case was the cliild injuriously affected by tlie use of tlie chlo- roform. Chloroform has, he believes, a weakening action on the contractions of the uterus, but this only applies to the periodic " pains" dependent on the spinal nervous system ; the contractility of the uterus derived from the sympathetic is not, he thinks, affected by the cliloroform. The use of chloroform does not predis- pose to post-partum heemorrhage, or to retention of the placenta. Chloroform has a disturbing action on labour, and it somewhat post- pones the period of delivery. In abnormal laboiu's, cliloroform is advantageously employed. In very rapid labours, the pains are too quick to allow of fall inhalation. In cases of hj^Derassthesia of the internal sexual organs, causing delirium or hysterical convulsions, and where spasmodic conditions of the uterus are present, it is very useful; also in tetanic conditions of the uterus, deformity, cross-pre- sentations, fee, previous to the necessary operative delivery, especially before turning. \n puerperal convulsions, its use is, he thinks, con- tra-indicated, lu two cases, after copious venesection, it had no decided efPect. In 53 cases, the operation of turning was performed under full narcotism, and in % cases after embryotomy; 3 out of the 53 died, i was a case of embryotomy, i after tetanus uteri, and I of acute peritonitis; 30 of the 53 childi-en were born alive. In forceps operations he has not extensively tried it. In the few cases in which cutting-instruments or the cephalotribe had been used, cliloroform was always employed. Kidd's paper, on " Chloroform in Midwifery Practice,'' contains the recently expressed opinions of Eigby and Mm-pliy on the subject, and an account of discussions thereon in Paris and in Germany. SiLBEET contends that local depletion is of very great service in various accidents and disorders to which the pregnant woman is liable, and several cases are cited to show the advantages which have been derived from this mode of treatment. Beauvais is of opinion that ergot may be perfectly replaced by Uva ursi. It is given in the form of infusion or decoction in cases of tedious labour or in menorrhagia. Deville asserts that he has, from the examination of various documents, arrived at the conclusion that one seventh of 515 still- born children perished from the use of ergot.