\ REPORT ON PRACTICAL MEDICINE. curred in a female, fst. 30, wlio suflered from clilorosis and gastralgia. Treatment was of no avail; she recovered spontaneously. TnoussEAU publislies a case of hysterical tremor a good deal resembling chorea, but distinguisliable, as he remarks, by the greater power of co-ordinating the movements. Briquet gives the following description of the anaistliesia of (he hysteric. It does not occur in all cases; leaving out of considera- tion the very frequent aneesthesia of the left conjunctiva, it was only met vnth in 60 per cent. It occurs not only after paroxysms, but sometimes before their occurrence. Psychical influences favour its supervention, and so do cutaneous hyperassthesia or muscular. It may come on gradually as an alteration of the quality of sensation, or suddeidy, and is then usually attended by lowering of the tempe- ratiu'C and ^\■eakness of the circulation in the anesthetic part. A case of convulsive sneezing is recorded by Mosler, in which a scrofulous female, fet. 33, long subject to disease of the right ear, suffered diuing eighty hours from attacks so fi-equent and violent, that she is computed to have sneezed 50,000 times, and the whole ueighboui'hood was alarmed ! She was amenorrhceal, and a month after the first attack the sneezing retui'ned. It often reappeared subsequently, and appeared to be relieved by discharge from the diseased ear. Warm baths, with cold applications to the head and alternate cold and warm douches to the spine, seemed to control the paroxysms. Chloroform produced a very temporary effect. Laycock argues strongly against the ordinary plan of treating delirium tremens by opium and stimulants. He finds that the ordinary cause of the attack is not the Avithdrawal of the accustomed stimulus, but a prolonged debauch. The patient should be kept quiet, the elimination, of the alcoholic poison promoted, food admuiis- tered, and complications mainly consisting in sub-iuflammatorY states of the stomach, duodenum, liver, or kidneys, should be attacked by mild sedatives and dc])urants. Experience has shown repeatedly that sleep M ill come on naturally without having recourse to any narcotics. Watson, of Southampton, bears strong testimony to the efficacy of croton-oil liniment applied to the scalp in grave and almost des- perate cases of hydroceplialus. In one case where leeching, cold lotions to the shaved head, calomel, and antimony, had been employed luiavailingly, improvement soon took place after pustula- tion had been produced in this way, and subsequent recovery.