REPORT ON PRACTICAL MEDICINE. 174 is, that the prevalence of ague was liigh at the commencement of the period j very liigh in 1853 and 1853; low in 1855; and again high in 1856 and 1857; and the higher ratio was continued in North Aylesford and Wisbeacii throughout 1858. A high tempe- rature and dry weather seem to be the most influential conditions ui causing the prevalence of ague and its congeners. Dr. Peacock classes the forms of malarious affection recently prevalent under the heads of—(i) ordinary intermittent fever; (3) remittent fever; (3) spon- taneous ansemia, probably dependent on malarious poisoning; (4) various painful and spasmodic affections^ assuming a regular or irregular periodic character. After a detailed description of the attacks of remittent fever, which chiefly vary in being more or less active or acutCj the author gives some instances of the third class, Avhich he states are characterised by marked and rapidly increasing nnfemia, sometimes combined with purpura and jaundice, and occa- sionally with paroxysms bearing a more or less close resemblance to any ordinary attack of ague, or of an epileptic or syncopic character, and recurring at regular periods. Sometimes the paroxysms have been absent, very imperfect, or irregular. "In the fatal cases of this and the last form of disease the only peculiarities detected on post-mortem examination have been the extreme paleness and tliinness of the blood, bloodlessness of the different organs and all parts of the body, and considerable enlargement of the spleen." Whitley gives cases (twenty-tluee) illustrative of the treatment of rheumatic fever. He thus sums up: " In fifteen of these cases salts of jrotash were given, either at first or after the failure of other means. W[\en cardiac complications existed, these remedies were combined with calomel, antimony and opium, and with blisters, while in several of the simple cases of joint-affection they were administered quite alone. In no case did they fail to effect a cure, which even in some cases was sometimes attained very rapidly. The latter remark applies, indeed, to some recent acute cases treated with lemon-juice, but in many instances this remedy unfortunately proves ineffectual." Large doses of Soda; Bicarb. (5vj ad sj in twenty-four hoiirs) in fifteen cases treated by Dr. Weber produced very good effects in five, wliich were of the acute type, in five or six others only some relief was afforded, and in the remaining no effect was observed. Three cases of the treatment of rheumatic fever by quinir intoxication, as practised by Beau in Paris, at La Charite, arc civeninthe 'Medical Times and Gazette,' October 29th, 1859.