GENITO-URINARY ORGANS. 101 Jierbivora were made independently, yet both as regards the manner in which the experiments were conducted and the results obtained, there is a general resemblance. The method of extracting the hip- puric acid adopted by Weissmann is as follows :—From lo to 30 c.c. of urme is evaporated nearly to dryness, after cooling from five to ten drops of concentrated hydi-ocliloric acid are added, and then an extract of the whole is made with pure ether' on evaporating which more or less coloured crystals of hippuric acid are obtained. The urine of man contains an excess of hip- puric acid after vegetable diet, whereas after animal diet the acid nearly disappears. The average daily amount of hippuric acid Weissmann gives at 2-170 grms., and on pure animal diet it feU to 0765 grms. He found that after living for seven days on nothing but bread and water his urine contained less hippuric acid than when on animal diet. He concludes from the above, and some expenments that he made on typhus patients, that the acid is not only derived fi-om the food, but also from the protein compounds of j the animal body. In three cases of diabetes the quantity of hip- puric acid was very considerably diminished. Mack says as Eoussm found, that horses when standing in the stable pass very ittle luppunc acid and a large quantity of urea, whereas while working they pass little m-ea and a large quantity of hippuric acid, it is |aot unprobable that the acid comes from an oxidation of the urea Ihis theory, however, is contrary to known facts, namely, that urea ^ ^he least oxidizable product of the animal-tissue metamorphosis i When urea is decomposed it is transformed into ammonia and cari bonic acid. j _Hall^;achs experimented upon liimself and a dog with succinic I acid and found that after taking it in quantity it neither reappeared in the excrements nor in the mine, nor did it in any way au-ment 1 the excretion of hippuric acid. ^ augment Kletziksky examined the excrements of the chameleon, and says that he found therein uric acid, traces of urate of ammonia, small quantities of oxalates and phosphates, traces of biliphain and biliarv acids, together with xanthin and prophylamin. Scherer regards the presence of the two latter as very problematical KoHLEE found that allantoine is present in the urine when the ? respiration is imperfect. ^ ^ Nedbauuk shows how oxalic acid is one of the indirect products ot the retrograde metamoi-phosis of tissue and protein food. It is I