OBSTETRICAL OPERATIONS. 359 111 Leh.\la.>'.n''s case, recourse was liad to a similar expedient. According to Kirstellee, tlie effects produced by the forceps may be divided into foui' groups. Pressiu-e, is the most important and the most simple of these : its degree depends on the lengths of the handles and blades of the instruments. The amount of pres- siu-e exercised by the hands varies, in slight cases being five to eight pounds, in very extreme cases fifteen to thirty pounds. If the pressure be too great, difficulty is created rather than removed. Traction, generally exercised in the direction of the axis of the instrument. Transverse movement, in effecting which the two blades of the forceps act as a single lever. And rotatory movement. Haupeu, in advising the more frequent use of the forceps, insists that the iU effects usually attributed to the instrument are due to its abuse. Mere duration is, he contends, an element in the mortahty in unassisted tedious labours, and this affords an argu- ment for the more frequent use of the forceps. The various states during wliich the use of the forceps is called for are alluded to, and especial reference made to cases of inertia or sluggishness of the uterus, in which class of cases he invariably u.se3 the short forceps in preference to the administration of ergot. He is of opinion that the earHer the forceps are used, in proper cases, the more maternal and foetal Hves will be saved. CujiMiivs also advocates the more frequent use of the forceps, considering that much infant and maternal mortality might thus be prevented. .Ramsbotham and Peiestley relate cases of delivery by the long forceps J in the former's case the brim was contracted, in the latter's case a fibrous tumour impeded delivery. ]\lArrEi has invented a new instrument for the extraction of the cliild, differing from the ordinary forceps in being very short, and by the branches working upon a transverse wooden handle. It is stated that the instrument can be used without knowledge of the mother, and that it acts very gently on the cliild. Page:sstechee relates four cases of Ca^sarean section. In the first there was pelvic nan'owing from osteo-malacliia. The ihac bones were so contorted that tlie pelvic aperture resembled in shape that of a keyhole. The result was favorable for mother and child. In a second case, in which the conjugate diameter measured a J" (rachitis), the Csesarean section was also performed with a suc- cessful issue to both mother and child. In a third case, the operas