REPORT ON MIDWIFERY, ETC. tiou liad been already performed once, with a favorable result. Ihe pa lent was much deformed from osteo-malachia, and died eighty hours after the operation. A foui-th case, reported in the Mem de 1 Acad.,' 1858, p. 468, by Borie, had a favorable issue lor mother and cliild. The patient was rachitic, and the conjugate diameter from two to two and a half inches. In Alonso's extraordinary case, no means were effectual in over- coming what appeared to be rigidity of the os uteri, and after a time portions of a fcetus, with much puriform matter, were expelled. Ihe uterus could not be made to contract, nor could the os be dilated. Finally, the Caesarean section was performed, and the re- mains of a foetus extracted. The result promised to be a favorable . one as regarded the mother. McClelland reports a case successful for both mother and cliild. The autero-posterior diameter was one inch and five eighths, the transverse one inch and a half, the sacrum curved, and the pubic angle very acute. In Hafneu's case the child was saved, the mother died six days after. The antero-posterior diameter was i" 6"'; transverse, 4" 8-"; oblique, 4'' 2" (Wurtemburg measure). In MuKPHr's case the conjugate diameter was barely two inches; the space round the brim was liardly larger than a florin; the cause of the deformity was mollities ossium. The child was dead before the operation was commenced. The mother died two days after. The author discusses the general question of the necessity and justifiability of the operation. The paper concludes with a table of cases of Cesarean section reported in Britain and America. In DucLOs's case, fibrous tumours of the uterus impeded deliverv. Mother and child were saved. Guillaume reports a case of Cgesarean section under like conditions. The child was saved; the mother died in six days. Guoesbeck and Treeriees report suc- cessful cases. Galligani's case was successful for mother and child. Giordano has operated four times in sixteen years. The cliildren were saved; the mothers died. Esterle's was a post- mortem operation. The child lived for two hours. Tyler Smith endeavours to show that, "witli the proper and scientific use of all the means at our command, it may be laid down as a general rule, that craniotomy should not be performed in tlie case of a living foetus after the period of viability has been reached."