SOMATIC INJURIES AND MANSLAUGHTER. 427 ill the left side of the abdomen, pulled about by the injured man; fatal hemor- rhage. Nothling'.—Punctured Wound of the Neck. (Baden, 12, 10.) Scluvaiulner.—A Case of Injury to the Spinal Marrow. (Wiirtemb., 28, 11.) Maschka.—(Casper, 13, 2.) A Child, eight days old, dies suddenly; dislocation of the second vertebra of the neck ; violent death through the agency of the mother. (Deutsche, 12, 2.) Fall upon the Knee, followed by inflammation of the joint; phlegmonous inflammation of the leg; remaining stiffness of the knee; absence of medical treatment in the beginning of the case; scrofulous disposition; serious injury. Clement-Lacroix.—On Hanging, considered principally from a medico-legal point. These inaug. Paris, 1858. Kriigelstein.—Remarks and Opinions on the Doctrine of Priority of Death. (Henke, 38, i.) rommes.—Complete Skeleton of a Man made by Maggots and Insects. (Casper, Maschka.—Post-mortem Examinations of Adult Persons. (Prag., ii, 81.) Death of a Peasant-boy, aged 14 years, twenty-four hours after falling into a pit fiUed with the boiling-hot refuse of a distillery. The greater part of the surface of the body denuded of epidermis ; the cutis dark, reddish-brown, hard, dry, and parchment like; on the places retanning the epidermis numerous blackish ecchyraoses and vesicles the size of peas, filled with a clear fluid, and sur- rounded by a narrow halo, of a rose-red colour, with minute injection of the cutis; blood fluid and dark; brain, with its membranes, hypersmic; mucous membrane of the trachea dark, blueish-red, in parts finely injected; lungs nor- mal; under the pleura of the right lung, ecchymoses from the size of a hemp- seed to that of a pea. Hauska,—Medico-forensic Studies. I. Physiognomy of Dead Bodies fWieuer I. 5-) ^ Huber.—The Medico-legal Relations of Fissures in Bones. (Oesterr., 4, 12 ) Pehkan—Essay on a more precise Definition of Rigor Mortis. (Loc cit igi ) Wallmann.-On Rupture of the Internal and Intermediate Membrane in Arteries (Oesterr., 4, 6.) Robm.-Memoir on the Comparison of Hairs, found with their Roots, in the pre sumed Locality of a Murder, with those of the Victim. Heller.—On Ha:matine and its Diagnosis. (Wien Aerzt., 1858 i 48 ) Bryck -On Blood-crystals and their Import in Forensic E.xaminations for Blood (Wien, 8, 42.) Coulier.-Note on a Constant Microscopic Character of Blood-stains. (Monit Hop., 1858, I.) V'iJmi. Choillette and Musculus.-New Researches on the Diagnosis of Blood^stains parhcularly stains which have been washed. (Conn. Med., i8c8 ^ "^'^ Mascllka.—Examination of Blood-like Stains. (Prag 28) ^ ' Eobin-Memoir on the Medico-legal Comparison of'Me'nslrual Blood-stains and other Blood-stains. (Ann. d'Hvg., Oct., 1858 20) Lannenberg.-Diagnosis of Spermatic Stains in Medico-legal Inquiries. (Hirzel Lassaigne,—Observations on some Reactions which Suermatir <?f.;n= 1