373 DISEASES OF WOMEN. Breslau.—Scirrhus des uterus, fibroser Polyp, Pyometra. [Scirrhus and Fibrous Polypus of the Uterus.] Mon. Sch. f. Geb., xiii, 435. (Sch., 11, 188.) • Ein Fall von Ecrasement lineaire einer Carcinomatosen Vaginalportion. [Case in which Ecrasement of a Cancerous Cervix Uteri was performed.] Scanzoni's Beitriige z. Geb., iii. (Canst., vol. iv, 408.) Fano.—Successful Amputation of the Cervix Uteri for Carcinoma. Gaz. des II3p., 40, 1859. (Sch. 8, 191.) Setz.—Zur Therapie des Clarke'scben Blumenkohlgewiichses. [On the Treatment of Clarke's Cauliflower E.xcrescence of the Uterus.] Memorab. a. d. Praxis V, S, 1859. (Sch., 8, 192.) Costilhes.—Remarks on Chronic Metritis granulosa interna, and its treatment by Cauterization. Gaz. Hebd., vi, 2, 1859. (Sch., 10, 72.) Tilt.—Chronic Uterine Disease; Haamorrhage from the Bowels for the last twenty years; Internal Haemorrhoids, &c. Lancet, 1859, SS9- Charnal.—Considerations sur I'amputation du col del'uterus par I'ecraseur lineaire. [On Amputation of the Cervix Uteri by the Ecraseur.] Monit. des Hop., 13 et 14, 1858. (Canst., vol. iv, 407.) McRuer.—On the Frequency, Importance, and Treatment of Ulcerations of the Os and Cervix Uteri. Bangor, Maine, U.S., [859. 8vo., pp. 46. (North Amer. Journ. of Med. Science, July, 1859, P- 215-) In EosiCKi's case of menstrual deviation, an ulcer on the leg was the seat of monthly recurring pain and discharge of blood, which state of things continued during five years. The cure was finally effected by iron and quinine. In Blaie's case, haemoptysis was observed on three successive occasions at the time the catamenial flow would otherwise have been observed. In Leute's case, menstruation continued during seven months of pregnancy. Moses relates several cases in which " vicarious menstruation " occurred, from the umbilicus, the skin, ulcers, lungs and intestines, and stomach; also cases of amenorrhoea associated with epilepsy, tetanic symptoms, &c. Eagon reports a case of epilepsy following on amenorrhoea, cured on supervention of dysentery and restoration of catamenia. Taylor records a case of amenorrhoea, associated with mania. Electricity, by means of Pulvermacher's apparatus, was had recourse to, and with a beneficial result. Tkousseau, in reference to the use of ergot and digitaHs, states that, when given just after delivery, ergot produces an effect of a very quick and decisive character. After abortion and in hfEmorrhages of carcinomatous origin, ergot acts very beneficially. Trousseau's