146 RKPOirr ON I'HACTICAL MEDICINE. affii'iniiig that no single plan can ]X)ssibly meet the ever-varying shades of disease, some iiillammations requiring wine (alone), some mercury, some bleeduig, general or local, or both. An account of a fever epidemic prevalent lately, at a village named Great Ilorwood, is given by Newham. Out of a population of 700, 135 were attacked, and 28 cases proved fatal. The fever came on either with rigors, pains in head and limbs, and consecutive symptoms of typhoid fever; or with bilious diarrhoea, followed by great prostration and petecliife; or with slight malaise, followed 011 the third day, by dyspnoea and intestinal hfcmorrhage. AVine was essential in the treatment, but in the second form of disease required to be given in sago or arrow-root. The treatment of the anfesthesia of hysterical patients, especially by means of Taradization, is described in some detail, as practised by M. BuiQUET. It may afPect the skin, the eyes, the ears, nasal and buccal mucous membranes, the muscles, or the bones. The anaesthesia of the muscles, is quite independent of that of the skin. Patients thus affected have no consciousness of the action of their muscles, if their eyes are averted fi'om the object. This paralysis is cured by a current made to traverse the part, tlu:ough moist sponges applied to the surface; wlule the cutaneous anaesthesia is cured by the electric brush being moved over the insensible surface, a moist conductor being applied to a neighbouring part. EosTAN reviews the various methods of treatment that have been employed in typhoid fever, enumerating them as the expectant, anti- phlogistic, evacuant, revulsive, and tonic. He often employs the first only. Venesection he employs rarely, except in the first week of the disease, in robust subjects, with well-marked febrile reaction. Emetics and purgatives he considers no "universal panaceas tlieir use must be regulated " sagement." Bevulsives may act serviccably to bring about general reaction. Tonics he uses in all states of debility. Gtjiet communicates some interesting instances of pernicious fever in young children. One in particular is very striking, from the extreme prostration, emaciation, constant vomiting, and para- lysis of the riglit arm, which all yielded rapidly to the adjmnistra- tion of quinine at first, in the form of enema. The author believes such occurrences to be more frequent than is generally su])posed, and quotes the remark that pernicious fever is seldom markedly l)eriodical, but most often presents some prominent symptom, which