ORTHOPEDIC SURGERY. 331 linn adhesion to the fibrous covering of the bone^ made its com- plete extirpation impracticable; "VYordsworth, therefore^ painted its interior with a strong alcoholic solution of iodine. Youx months afterwards no vestige of the tumour remained^ and the eye had re- sumed its normal position. AiKiN says, the tumour, first noticed by the patient, a woman, tlu-ee years before, had the size of a hen's egg; it appeared to occupy two tliirds of the orbit, and to spring from its roof. After it had been laid bare by an incision parallel to the eyebrow, not the shghtest interspace could be distinguished between the tumour and the roof of the orbit; both seemed to form one continuous mass. Bone-forceps and chisels failed to cut it, and only a small piece was cliipped off the surface; the hot iron was therefore apphed to it, to cause exfohation. Three weeks afterwards, not the shghtest change having taken place, holes, 4—i" deep, were bored with a fine drill, in various directions, but always parallel to the orbital roof, to avoid perforating this. Into these holes strong nitric acid Avas in- troduced. The portions of bony tissue between the holes became smaller and smaller; in process of time portions broke away; and after nearly foru- months the last remains of it were removed. The eyeball was easily replaced in the orbital cavity, and vision retui'ned ten minutes afterwards (?) Subsequently, during the ensuing month, there were very serious symptoms j violent headache, hot, di-y skm, and great tliirst. A small, fistulous opening remained at the inner canthus, and the eye could not be turned fully inwards, on account of the division of the muse. rect. int. ORTHOPiEDIC SURGERY. Henke,—Contractions of the Tarsus. (H. u. Pf's. Ztscbr., 3, vol. v, pp. 44—82.) Schmidt's Jahrb., p. 2, No, 7, 1859. Heiberg.—An Operated Valgus Pedis. (Norsk Magazin, vol. ix, p. 506.) Sclmiidt's Jahrb., No. 7, 1859. Delore.—Pied P'^it valgus douloureux, nach Bonnet's Klin. Vostriigen. [On Painful Flat-foot.] (Bull, de Ther., vol. liv, pp. 489—536, De'c, 1858.) Schmidt's Jahrb., No. 7, 1859. Brodhurst.—Division of the Tendon of the Rectus Fcmoris. Lancet, 37th Aug., 1859, p. 215. Borelli.—Contraction of the Fingers and Hand after Injury of a Nervous Filament in Bleeding. (Gazz. Saida, 45, 1858.) Schmidt's Jahrb., No. 3, 1859. Henke'3 memoir begins with general remarks upon the nature