376 REPORT ON MIDWIFERY, HTC. excrescence of the uterus is not admissible, Betz recommends the frequent use of caustics. CosTiLiiES recommends the use of nitrate of silver, applied in the solid state, for the removal of the fungus-like granulations present in chronic granular metritis. Tilt relates a case of chronic uterine disease and internal haemorrhoids; a tumour of the uterus was also present. The patient had lost much blood, the source of which was not perfectly clear. McRuER believes that simple ulceration of the uterus is not " so formidable a malady as it is maintained to be by certain writers." The author advocates cleansing of the vaginal passage by emollient or slightly astringent fluids, attention to the general health, rest, &c., in order to remove the leucorrhoca. Caustic agents ought never to be made destructive, and the demonstrative use of the speculum is seldom justifiable or required in the diagnosis. m. DISEASES OP THE OTAEIES, ETO. Eulenberg,—Ovarian Cyst; Pregnancy; Compression of the Tumour by the Uterus; Radical Cure. Wien. Medizin. Wochenschrift, Med. Neuigkeiten, Peb. 27th, 1858. (Noirot's Annuaire, 1858.) Lumpe,—OvariencYste liei einer Woclinerin in Folge spontaner Ruptiir und Entlee- rung durch den Dickdarm gelieilt. [Spontaneous Rujjture of Ovarian Cyst into the Large Intestine; Cure.] Zeitsch. d. Geseil, d. Aeriz. ru Wien., No. 2i, 1858. (Canst., vol. iv, 410.) Clay.—Ovarian Cyst coexisting with Pregnancy, &c. Obstet. Trans., vol. i, p. 226. PreUSS.—Radikalheiluiig eines Hydrovarium. [Radical Cure of Ovarian Dropsy.] Deutsche Klinik, 48, 1858. (Sch., 3,309.) Hergott.—Ovariotomy. Gaz. de Strasb., 2, 1859. (Sch. 6, 304.) Simon.—Znsaramensiellung von 61 in Deutscliland theils ausgefiihrten, theils ver- suchten Ovariotoinien. [Report of Si.\ty-one Cases of Ovariotomy.] Scan- zoni's Beilriige z. Gelinrtsk, iii, pp. 98—142. Spencer Wells.—Five Cases of Ovarian Disease, in three of which Ovariotomy was performed successfully; with remarks on tlie means of diminishing the Morlality after this Operation. Proc. of Roy. Med. and Cliir. Soc. Lancet, 1859, vol. i, p. 186. Spencer Wells. Three Cases of Ovarian Disease. Med. Times and Gaz., xl, 159. Three Cases of Ovariotomy. lb., 11, 31, 59. Unilocular Ovarian Cyst; Injection with Iodine; Successful result. lb., xxxix, 548.