RESPIRATORY SYSTEM. 229 uervous affections of the respiratory passages, but that it is iiiju- nous m phthisis. Its primary action is to produce excitement, which is followed by a sedative effect. In addition to tliis general action, the gas possesses an anaisthetic power over wounds and parts denuded of epidermis. It is recommended in granular pharyn- gitis. Semeledee recommends the use of the laryngeal speculum employed by Garcia and Czermak for the examination of the fauces and lar^mx. Not only the entrance of the larynx and the epiglottis, but the chordae vocales, the inner surface of" the trachea, and^even its bifurcation (occasionally), may be recognised. Keyser relates how a man, set. 38, convalescent from plem-isy of the right side, after violent mental emotion was seized by corpse- bke paUor and icy coldness of the whole body, with cold sweat and difficult breathing. The action of the heart was stormy and irre- gular,its sounds normal. Death occurred on the fifth day,'in the way of asthema. At the autopsy the results of pleui-isy were found, and some smaU tuberculous deposits. The left ventricle was empty the right contamed two fibrinous coagula. In the puLnouary artery were several firm coagula, extending a long ;vay into the right branch, but only a little into the left. A continuous musical murmur, at fii-st of piping character, after- ^vards moi;e hke the ratthng of a wheel, stronger at each inspii-ation, especiaUy m qmck respiration, heard in the mid and lower part u the sternum, and also in the back, is connected by its observer Lk,ui.e, with the condition of the liver, which was g th ~ ^lEMAYEK lias the foUowing observations on the treatnienl of pneumonia After remarking upon its eminently cy S course, and its almost invariable termination spontaneousiri e overy when the patients are strong and the disLe of modL^^^^ sivc use of and can confident]/r rZend mv n f it"' the highly favorable results whi^h I hTe b"Ld t " lengthy series of observations. I cover tlfe ILsf o ' the affected side with napkins wrung out coS\ te^aii 1 t"' T renewal of the cold appHcations ev'ery five Snutlf in ^ n cases the patients feel greatly reliev d afte^ few^r th