■REPORT ON LEGAL MEDICINE, ETC. 483 in wMch this murmur was yet apparent, lie succeeded in restoring life. Now that the dynamoscope is invented, Collongues says that the dead-houses in Naples and Germany may be abolished. 8. Prostitution. Parent-Ducliatelet.—Prostitution in Paris, considered in its relation to Public Hygiene, Morals, and the Administration. Third edition, completed by Tre- BUCHET and Poirat-Duvai,, Chefs de Bureau a la Prefecture de Police. With an Account of Prostitution in the principal Towns of Europe. With Maps and Tables. Paris, 2 vols., Bailliere and Son. Sanger.—Tlie History of Prostitution ; its Extent, Causes, and Effects throughout the World. New Yor^. 8vo, pp. 683. We cannot give an extract of this comprehensive and, so far as Prance is concerned, no doubt, accia-ate work. It gives an account of one of the saddest aberrations of the natural impulses of man, and reveals social conditions of an appalling nature. But the information relating to England, and particularly to London, contained in this volume is of a very unreliable nature. The following passage will, no doubt, be considered a curiosity: " In the quarter [of London] called Meet Ditch, where nearly all houses have brothels on the ground-floor, there is an enormous aqueduct, wliich stands in communication with the Thames. Into this aqueduct the proprietors of brothels, or their helpmates, throw the dead bodies of their victims, which are carried by the water far out into the river, so that it becomes impossible to ascertain where the murder has been committed." Some more material of this kind is heaped together in the production of Sanger. Its fii-st part is a mere ab- stract of the work of Pauent-Duchatelet. It is, moreover, as the reviewer in the 'Medical Times and Gazette' for Api-il 2d, 1858, expressed it, " an accumulation of all the dirt and filthiness which may be gleaned by diligent search in the storehouses of antiqiiity." The last 230 pages are devoted to the history of prostitution in the capital of the New World. They are full of the most astounding and evidently groundless assertions. Thus, the average duration of life of a New York prostitute is said not to exceed four years from the time she begins her career, an assertion which is as ridiculous as the assertion of Parent-Duchatelet, that at Edinburgh the average age attained by prostitutes was from twenty-two to twenty-five years, which only few outlive,