362 IIEPOIIT ON MIDWIFERY, ETC. and after the use of the instrument a mature foetus M^as extracted -UuBOis and Won- also record cases of cephalotripsy. Ntjssee's case was one of frontal presentation, in wliicli, the for- ceps havnig been unsuccessfully used, the trepan was employed, and delivery ellected. • CiiiSTOFOiiisproposes as a substitute for symphysotomy, pubiotomj-, and the Csesarean section, a new operation, viz., the partial or total superiosteal resection of the os pubis, at the horizontal and descending rami. He describes six modifications of the operation, adapted to differ- ent cases, m each of wliich different parts of thebonesare toberemoved according to the varying degrees of narrowing of the pelvic cavity, ihese several operations he has performed on the dead body, and has practised them on Hving bitches. He beUeves that he has proved, that the operation is practicable, the chief difficulty con- sisting in the separation of the periosteum behind the pubic bone; that it answers its purpose j that it must be considered a priori as less severe than the operations it is proposed to be substituted for; and that the parts removed are replaced subsequently. JocoLUCci relates a case in wliich, at the eighth month, sjTichon- di-otomy was performed, to allow the head to enter the pelvis. The conjugate diameter was %\" The child died soon after delivery, the mother eighteen days subsequently. ON EMPLOYMENT OF CHLOllOPORM, SPECIAL REMEDIAL AGENTS, ETC. Levy.—On the Employment of Chloroform in the Royal Lying-in Hospital at Copenhagen. Bibliothek for Laeger, vol. lo, p. 443. (Sch., 4, 40.) Kidd.—Cliloroforra in Midwifery Practice. Med. Circ, xiv, 1859, 29°- Silbert.—On the Employment of Local Bloodletting in Pregnancy. Ann, de Med. et Chir., Jamain and Wahu, 1859, P- 272. Beauvais. —On Uva Ursi, considered specially as an Obstetrical Agent. Ann. de Therap., 1859, 49- Deville.—Statistical Researches on the Action of Ergot in Parturition. Arch. Gen., March, 1859. (Brit, and For. Med.-Ch. Rev., July, 1859,277.) Levy details the general result of the employment of clJoroform inhalation in a number of cases of natural labom-, in most of wliich the full narcotism was produced. Chloroform lias the same effect on pregnant women and on women during labour as on other individuals;