REPORT ON SURGERY. 306 siire and encircled by tlie ring, the ends of wliicli are to be made fresh, in order that they may join. Nelaton says he liad often made cnres in tliis Avay. GiLi-ESPiE relates two cases of hydi'ocele which he had treated by the wu-e-seton. Suppuration ensued in both cases. Young records two cases of liydrocele of the tunica vaginalis which he treated successfully with a seton of fine ii'on wires. QuiNLAN treated a case with a seton of eight tlneads of iron wire. The inflammation was as great as usually follows the treatment by iodine-injectionj wliich he liad undergone two years previously for a liydrocele of the left side. Depee, adopting Metz's proceeding, caustics lightly the interior of the tunica vaginalis with sulphate of silver, introduced upon a probe through an ordinary trocar. He reports ten successful cases. The 'Medical Times and Gazette' report contains particulars of thirty-five cases. Walton reports a case of elephantiasis, where the scrotum weighed eight or nine pounds. He removed as much of it as he could, having provided against haemorrhage by previously tjang the parts beyond the line of the intended incisions. Tlie patient made an excellent recovery. WOUNDS, AND DISEASES OP THE BLOOD-YESSELS. Porter,—Case of Penetrating Wouud of the Abdomen. Division of tlie Left Renal Artery. Dublin Hosp. Gaz., April ist, 1859. Patterson.—Aneurism of the Left Internal Carotid Artery. Edinb. Med. Jour., Feb., 1859. Stanley.—Ligature of the Common Carotid, on account of Hemorrhage following the Puncture of an inflamed Tonsil. Med. Times and Gaz., 29th Oct., 1859. Stanley.—Axillary Aneurism of Seven Months' Growth in a Soldier; DeUgation of the Subclavian Artery in the third part of its course; Death on the third day. Lancet, p. 55, July 15th, 1859. Clarke (Le GrOS).—Successful Deligation of the Subclavian Artery for Aneurism of the Axillary Artery. Med. Times and Gaz., April 9th, 1859, p. 365. Clarke (Le GrOS).—Axillary Aneurism; Ligature of the Subclavian Artery; Death ; Autopsy. lb., 1859, P- 237- Green.—Femoral Aneurism in a Man, seventy-five years of Age, cured by Pressure. Brit. Med. Jouru., ist Jan., 1859. Teale.—I'oi'liteal Aneurism treated by Corapressiou and Manipulation. Med. Times and Gaz., 1859, P- ^^5- Childs.—Popliteal Aneurism treated by Compression. lb., 1859, p. 59. Bone.—On a Case of Aneurism of the Right Popliteal Artery, terminating in Re- covery witbout Ligature of the Vessel. Lancet, p. 314, March 26th, 1859.