6s THE LIVER. 8!^ organs. 2d. That the sugar comes from the transformation of a substance resembling starch (glucogene), which substance can be detected by means of the microscope in the cells of the Hver. The transformation is caused by an animal ferment. 3d. Artificial dia- betes, from injury to the nervous system, is the result of hyperaemia. The blood-vessels being widened either from the paralysis of one set of nerves, or increased stimulus of another—narcotic poisons, gal- vanism, &c. 4th. Neither section of the vagi, nor injury to the spinal cord, arrests the secretion of sugar in the liver. The latter operation, on the contrary, increases it. 5th. Hepatic and grape- sugar are identical. ScHOTTiN found that liver freed from blood, connective tissue, and wen washed—i. Transforms cane- into grape-sugar in from eight to ten hours, and in the course of other twenty-fours hours into lactic acid. a. Changes fibrin into leucin, and a small quantity of t}Tosin. 3. If, after the sugar has fermented, a few drops of oil are added to the hver and well shaken, the oil disappears in a few hours, producing at the same time a second fermentative pro- cess. He confirms Lehmann's statement regarding leucin not being found in the hver till some hours after death. Benvenisti has already, in a former paper, declared that the sugar found in the animal economy comes from amylaceous food. He unagines, too, that starch, under the influence of sahva, can be changed into fat. Berthelot says that the organic part of the skeleton of the ver- tebrata chiefly consists of a nitrogenized substance, insoluble in cold water; but soluble in the alkaUes, and nearly alHed m its chemical characters to albumen. As is known, this material yields gelatin by prolonged boilmg. On the other hand, the organic part of the skeleton of the invertebrata is quite difi-erent from anytliing resem- blmg gelatin. Its nature varies,- sometimes it is hke the cornea at other times it is closely allied to the substances found in the vegetable kmgdom-cellulose. To it he gives the name of tuni- cine. This substance is transformed by strong sulphuric acid into sugar. Gluge claims the priority of observmg that a fatty condition of the hver IS a normal state in young animals. Nasse calls attention to the mterestmg fact that the weight of the liver varies with the