480 REPORT ON LEGAL MEDICINE, ETC. c. Smallpox and Faccinalion. I. Pamphlets. Boefeld (Bicslau).—Vaccination or Inoculation ? A word to establish a good understanding relative to the Smallpox Question. Brcslau, Goschorsky. Nitting^er.—The Season of Vaccination, and the Protestants against the Poison and Witchcraft of Jenner before the Wiirtcmbcrg Chamber of Deputies in Sep- tember, 1858, and before the English Parliament in July, 1858. Leiptic, Gustav Brauns. BoEPELD wishes to make vaccination more protective, by letting it be succeeded by inoculation witliin a twelvemonth. The pro- posal is discussed in a quiet and impartial manner, and the discourse should be studied by those who have given the subject their special attention. NiTTiNGEU has, during several years, obtained a small but de- plorable notoriety by his unmeasured attacks upon vaccination. The above outburst is less violent, but, if possible, more perverse and ludicrous, than any of liis earlier performances. He concludes an address to the authors of the ' English Blue Book on Yaccination' Avith a chorus, to be sung "by schools, the police, church, and medicine," in which there is a refrain, of wliieh the following is a translation: " Vaccination is the monkey's duty ; Apes, my brethren, therefore let us be." 2. Papers in Journals. Riecke.—On the Value of Vaccination. (Henke, 2.) Cause (Gensingen).—On Vaccination and Revaccination. A pium desiderium from the Grand Duchy of Hesse. (lb.) Eerailly.—Oil Re-vaccination in Public Schools (Lyceums). (Monit. Hop., 57.) M'Donnell.—On the statistics of Smallpo.\ and Vaccination in Ireland. (Dublin Hosp. Gaz., No. 11.) Winter.—Vaccination and its Compulsion. (Deutsche, 11, 2.) Faber (Schomdorf).—Vaccination in 1858. (Ibid., 12, 2.) Paber supports compulsory vaccination upon the basis of an experience of forty-one years, and refutes certain imputations against vaccination which had been uttered before the Wiirtemberg Chamber of Deputies by a person named Hochstetter. BiECKE beUeves variola and variolois to be identical. Variola, he