30 REPORT ON THE INSTITUTES OP MKDICINE. forcibly extended, is on account of the aponeurotic termination of the biceps and brachiahs internus compressing the humeral artery. Buown-Sequard tries to explain the reason of the heart's pulsa- tions being reduced, or even arrested, during deep inspiration. If, he says, a rabbit, in its natural position, has the respirations at 90, and the pulse at 144 per minute; the pulse may be raised to 160, and the respirations reduced to 60, by bending its head backwards. If, on the other hand, the head is bent forwards on the breast, the respirations are reduced to 44, and the pulsations raised to 180 per minute. After the two vagi are divided in the neck, the bend- ing of the head backwards alters but slightly the number of pulsa- tions and respirations; but the bending it forwards reduces the number of respirations very considerably, although it merely raises the pulsations a few beats. Tliis is another proof that the vagi have a powerful influence on the heart. M. Pleury claims the priority of investigating the effects pro- duced by the prolonged application of cold water to the body. He does so in consequence of Dr. Bence Jones having pubHshed a paper on the same subject a short time ago. YuLPiAN tried to measure the contractility of the vessels of the liver and kidney—by the application of mechanical stimuli— immediately after death. He poisoned most of the animals (dogs and rabbits) with w^ourali, kept up artificial respuation, and then applied the point of a needle to the surface of the liver. After a second or two the tissue round where the needle was apphed became injected with blood, which did not readily disappear on pressure. Galvanic did not act so well as mechanical stimuli. A similar effect was obtained with the kidney. At first the vessels dilated; then, after a time, contracted. Gunning calls attention to the fact that, on diminishing the watery part of the blood by means of salts and other substances, the circulation becomes much slower. Botkin thinks that tlris arises from the saline solutions causing a change in the form and elas- ticity of the blood-corpuscles, and thereby giving rise to greater friction in the vessels. BuscH strengthens Meckers view regarding the possibility of substances in the blood passing backwards from the right auricle into the hepatic vein. He proved tliis experimentally, by injecting finely powdered charcoal (mixed with water) into the external jugular vein of a dog(?). The capillaiies of the lungs became