REPORT ON MIDWIFERY, ETC. 356 Druitt.—Case of Craniotomy. Obslet. Trans., vol. i, p. 8i. Levy.—Ueber die Abliisung ties Scliultcrblattes vom Kiirper als Metliode dcr Embryotomie. [On the Separation of the Shoulder-blade from the Dody as a method of Embryotomy.] Bihliothek for Laeger, vol. lo, p. 431. (Sch., iv, 38.) Becker.—Do Cephnlotripsia. Dissert. Inaugur. Leipzig, i%cfi. (Sch., 1,63.) Schultze.—Ueber dei Indikation zur Kephalotripsie. [On the Indications for the Performance of Ceplialotripsy.] Med. Centr. Ztg., 50, 51, 1858. (Sch., i, C3.) Dubois.—Case of Cephalotripsy. Rev. Med., Janvier, p. 89. (Canst., vol. iv, 484.) Richard.-On Cephalotripsy by the combined use of the Perforator and the Hand. Monatsch. f. Geb., xi, 389. (Canst., vol. iv, 484.) Wolf.—Kephalotripsis iiach Perforation dcs Kopfes, wegen Beckenenge. [Cepha- lotripsy after Perforation of the Head.] Aertz, Mitth. aus Baden, \iii, 8, 1859. (Sch., 12, 320.) NllSSer.—Trepanation iind Entliirnung des Kindesschadels wegen Stirnlage bei einer Zehntgebiironder. [Trepanning and Excerebration in a Case of Frontal _ Presentation.] Oesterr. Ztschr. f. prakt. Heilk., v, 28. (Sch., 12, 319.) Cristoforis.—Die Resectio Pubica sul)periostea als Ersatz fiir die schwerern geburtshiilflichen Operationen. [On Subperiosteal Pubic Resection as a Sub- stitute for the Severe Obstetric Operations.] Ann. Univ. Agosto, Sett., 1858, Genn., 1859. (Sch., 8, 196.) Jocolucci.—Case in which Synchondrotomy was performed. Lo sperimentale Okb., 10. (Canst., vol. iv, 483.) GoDEFEOY relates two cases iu which the os uteri was incised in cases of convulsions. Both mothers did well. Braun's new method of inducing premature labour consists in the introduction of a piece of catgut^ several inches long, into the uterus, between the membranes and the uterine parietes, and allow- ing it to remain until the membranes have been ruptured by the pains which are excited by its presence. The catgut is from two to three lines in thicknesSj its extremities softened by hot water, and well oiled previous to the introduction. Labour begins in from six to twenty hours after the operation. Eeymann relates two cases in which the sponge-tent was success- fully employed for the purpose of inducing premature labour. Cohen's method of inducing artificial premature labour consists in the injection of warm water into the uterus. In two cases reported by IIausmann labour set in after two injections in one case, and after three injections in the other. In Brock's case three injections aiid two doses of ergot were employed. The children were born alive, but one died soon after. In GuERDA?v''s case, Cohen's method Avas had recourse to in two successive pregnancies, at the thirtieth week and at the thirty-fifth week. The first child sui'vived seven hoiu:s only, the second did well.