86 REPORT ON THE INSTITUTES OF MEDICINE. Sanson says that fresh healthy blood does not contain any sugar, but that after standing from four to eight hours exposed to the air, sugar can be detected in it. This is in consequence of fresh blood containing glucogcne, which, by fermenting, becomes trans- formed into sugar. Sanson further states that the animal body has not the power of forming glucogene. That the herbivora obtain it directly from the vegetable kingdom; the carnivora indi- rectly through the flesh of the herbivora. PoGGiALE gives a report on the researches of Bernard and Sanson. He states that the Commission appointed by the Aca- demy of Medicine, consisting of Bouley, Longet, and himself, after performing several experiments on different animals, came to the conclusion that the liver possesses the power of forming gluco- gene, irrespective of the kind of food. That it is formed in greatest quantity, however, when the diet is vegetable. They agree stiU further with Bernard, in saying that glucogenic matter holds a middle place between starch and dextrine. Moos made a quantitative analysis of the sugar in the livers of healthy rabbits and dogs, and compared it with the quantity found in the livers of the same species after section of the pneumogastric nerves. His results are confirmatory of the previously known fact, that the quantity of sugar in the liver diminishes rapidly, and finally disappears, after section of the cervical pneumogastric. He further found that galvanism applied to the spinal cord of frogs renders them diabetic, while at the same time it increases the quantity of urine. He also states that whatever increases the action of the sympathetic, especially its cervical portion, augments the formation of sugar in the liver. The quantity of sugar in the liver fluctuates greatly. During digestion it is at its maximum; during fasting at its minimum. In the livers of pregnant rabbits the quantity is small, and it is frequently entirely absent in those killed by poison. The food wliich tends most to increase the quantity of sugar in the livers of rabbits is bread, potatoes, and boiled starch. Nasse says that glucogene appears in the cells of the liver in the form of small granules. The Commission appointed by tlie Danish Academy to examine Schiff's memoir on Diabetes, consisting of Hannover, Escliricht, and Scharling, report that the paper shows—ist. That sugar is actually formed in the liver, and not collected there from other