176 RKPOllT ON PRACTICAL MEDICINE. cynth given witli the opium may, of course, liave prevented the constipation. No prophyhictic virtue against cardiac affection was exercised by the opium. The average duration of twelve cases recorded as cured is twenty-six days. May gives a brief but able communication on the subject of diphtheria. He strongly commends the use of turpentine {v\\y for a dose) in the advanced stages of the disease. Tinct. Pcrri Mu- riatis he finds the best local application. MiCHAELis endeavours to show that scrofula and tuberculosis are not the results of a general morbid state affecting the whole system, but of purely local causes. His essay may be usefully referred to, but we cannot give his arguments in our narrow limits. Heymann describes Beri-Beri as a combination of acute rheu- matism and intermittent fever. The symptoms were regular or irregular febrile paroxysms, surprisingly great debility, with paretic and hvpersesthetic phenomena, sometimes bilious diarrhoea and vomiting, swelling of the ancle-, knee-, and hand-articulations, seldom oedema and ascites, and only in exceptional cases delirium and con- tinued fever. The only constant alteration observed in autopsies was a thin-fluid, dark state of the blood. A short statement of all the most important particulars in nineteen cases of diphtheria is given by Newman. His experience corrobo- rates that of most other observers. He records an instance in which it seems probable that the disease was commvuiicated by contagion. LoRiNSER endeavoui-s to show that the phenomena usually con- sidered to prove the existence of constitutional syphilis are often reaUy owing to tlie effect of mercury which has been taken for the cure of the primary affection. He tliinks the natural course of constitutional sypliilis has never yet been duly studied, and that there is danger of error in too hastily admittnig that a patient is not suffering from the efl^ects of mercury in his system, altliougli he may not have undergone regular mercurial treatment. He thinks there is no positive sign whereby to distingmsh a s^Tohilitic from a non-syphilitic eruption. Hassing, of Christiana, sums up a long discussion respecting tlie nature of mucous tubercles by the statement that they must not be reo-arded solely as a secondary sj^hilitic symptom, but also as a nrimary and local accident; and further, that it remains for future inquiry to decide whether in the last case they are to be considered as of syphilitic or of blennorhoic character. He says that m