REPORT ON PKACTICAL MKDICIN'H. 214 liou and iiilosliiuil torpor do not appear to have any notable influ- ence. Eight cases occurred in the male, two only in the female sex. ■.I-hght of the patients were below the age of tliirty, two above. As to symptoms, in most cases the disease set in with sudden, violent pain in the right lateral region of the abdomen. Pever occurred early. Constipation was not constant, nor vomiting. Almost all the patients had manifest tumour when they came under inspection. At a later period diarrhoea often occurred, even under the use of opium, but it was by no means of favorable omen. In five cases there occiu-red, in the course of the second or third week, a deceptive improvement of some days' duration, quickly followed by a violent increase of the malady. As to duration, in seven cases, whose course could be clearly traced from beginning to end, the penod varied from twenty to fifty days, the mean being tlurty-one. Prognosis and treatment.—persons dying of other diseases, the traces of by-past inflammation have often been discovered m the shruDk-up remnants of the vermiform process. In these cases, however, it does not appear that actual perforation had occurred. It seems, however, probable that even after perforation a comp ete cure might take place, though Bamberger has not yet met with a positive instance of the kind. The treatment which Bam^berger approves of most is that of opium, joined with leeclung and poul- tices to the part. Purgatives, appropriate to cases of feecal accu- mulation free from peritonitis, must in those here considered be employed very cautiously. . ■\]uMm describes a case of cicatrix-like formations on the tongue They formed patches of intense-white colour, sharply defined in some places, incapable of being peeled off, and when removed by the knife, leaving the subjacent papdl^e swollen and red When portions were separated, they were soon reproduced. The patches consisted of layers of epithelial scales, with a te^ patches and fungi-filaments. There were no symptoms. Two interesting cases of vomiting of blood, in consequence o varicose veins in the oesophagus, are recorded by Le Diberdeu and Eauvel. In one case the liver was cirrhosed, and the kiduej. de-enerated; in the other, the organs appear to have been lieaitli except a double pneumonia. The dilated veins were pronnne upon the mucous surface, but no rupture could be detected as t source of the bleeding. i ,r • A case is recorded by GRADEJsWiTZ,_in wluch the oesophagus w