PHYSIOLOGICAL ACTION 01? CERTAIN POISONS. 107 as the one or other poison is in excess.^ Since then he has frequently- repeated these experiments^ and on several occasions succeeded, by means of woorara, in saving the lives of animals to which he had administered poisonous doses of strychnine. In 1857, through the kindness of Professor Varnell, Dr. Harley had the opportunity of trying the effects of woorara on a horse labouring under a severe attack of tetanus, and although he did not succeed in saving the life of the animal, he says, that he saw enougli to convince liim of the value of the remedy. Indeed, so convinced was he of its beneficial effects, that he would have tried it shortly afterwards on a boy labouring under traumatic tetanus, had the disease not yielded to other remedies. Spencee "Wells alludes to the recent cases of tetanus treated on the Continent by Yella, Manec, and Chassaignac ; and to the experi- ments of Bernard with the alkaloid cixrarine, the active principle of the poison. He shows that the experiments of Brodie, in 1811, the apphcation of their results by Sewell, and the subsequent experiments of Morgan and Harley, had anticipated aU that has been recently done on the Continent, with, the exception of making actual trial on the human subject. Wells thinks that he has seen enough in his cases to establish the foUowng propositions: i. That our knowledge of the physiological action of woorara, of its antago- nistic effects to the artificial tetanus of strychnine, of the results of Its use in idiopathic tetanus of the horse and ass, and the fact that two cases of chronic tetanus in man on the Continent, and one in this country, have recovered during its application, should encourage further experiments. 3. That although cases of acute traumatic tetanus in man have died, notwithstanding the use of woorara, this should not discourage us from further trials, when we consider the fatal nature of this form of tetanus, and the fact that in only one of the cases was the woorara given in any quantity In the discussion which followed the reading of this paper, Harley said —as regards the value of woorara when compared with other narcotics —that Its superiority consists in its peculiar power of paralysing the motory much sooner than the sensory nerves. He said that this poison could be so administered as to entirely destroy the power of voluntary motion, .nthout impairing the consciousness of the animal in administenng woorara to animals labouring under tetanus induced by strychmne, he gave sufficient to paralyse all the voluntary Ac'tiln Ts^'Xil'.^'- " ^"'^^ °^ '-^^^- P^vsiological