KKl'ORT ON PRACTICAL MRDICINK. 208 muscles, inducing paralysis, may arise—(i.) ^rom propagation of a similar morbid process from adjoining organs (myopathia propagaia). (2.) Prom mechanical injviry (mvopathia traumatica). (3.) Prom sudden change of tcmi)crature (myopathia rhcumatica). (4.) From diseased concUtions of the blood (myopathia dyscrasica). (5.) 1 rom diminished supply of blood and diminished exercise (inyopatlua marasmodes). (6.) From causes which are beyond our reach (myo- l)athia simplex) ! Instances of myopallda propagaia are paralysis ot the abdominal muscles in peritonitis, of the intercostals in pleuntis, of the heart's fibre in pericarditis. Excessive fatigue or a sudden .train mav, in mijopaiJtia traumatica, so alter the nutrition ot the muscles tliat they subsequently degenerate. Myopathia rheumatica IViedberg defines as that variety of the affection in which degene- ration of the muscles results from exposure to sudden changes 0 temperature. It maybe acute or clu:ouic, and lead to universal degenerative atrophy and palsy of the muscles. He seems to con- sider that it affects invariably the interstitial areolar tissue of the muscles. Myopathia dyscrasica is noticed by Triedberg as a sequel of cholera, dysentery, typhus, gastric fever, and the exanthema a. Myopathia marasmodes is not necessarily caused by deficient exer- cis4 of the muscles, but occurs when this element of disease exists, and is accompanied by other morbid tendencies m the muscle Myopathia si,nplex may affect single muscles or numerous sets It has usually been regarded as resulting from paralytic at^ectioi. of iXduaUierves. ^''The chief remedy for the protivac^^ Iturbance of the muscle consists in stimulatmg it methodically to contract." This is best effected by electricity and suitable gym- nastic exercises. CIRCULATORY SYSTEM. Ogle and Mead0WS.-0n Clubbing of '^'f'"e^-n-ls - a Sign of Thoracic Dis- ^ easp Mc<l. Times and Gaz.., March .Qth and 26th, .8S9. , 1T n„ Runture of the Heart. Med. Times and Ga7... April 9th, iS.sg- ^^^iT-^ToTv^:^^^^^^^ of the Heart. Brit. Med. Jour., Jan. .st, Gairdner -On Pericarditis. Edin. Med. Jour., April. ,859- P- 904- Sr«cr..m ot II,. Tl.o,.cic Dun. H., M.«, .8.9. V-