EEPORT ON LEGAL MEDICINE, ETC. 454 of old age, appears to be a frequent crime. Immoral assaults upon cliikben, and cases of rape ou infants, are increasing at a terrible rate. Prom 18216 to 1830 there occurred annually about 130 cases of that kind; but from 1830 to 1850 the average of these cases, of which the majority happened at Paris, was 420 per annum. The medical diagnosis of these crimes is minutely described. Elsaesseb. considers premature births, and their relative fre- quency among married and uiamarried women. The latter most frequently bring forth stillborn children; amongst 540 prematm-e extra-matrimonial births, 125, that is, almost one fourth, were of dead children; and of these, two tliirds at least had died in the womb before the beginning of labour. The diagnosis of death in the womb from death after birth is elaborately given. LoESCHER reports the case of a woman who, after having been repeatedly confined before, suddenly died during labour. The child was expelled spontaneously twenty-four hours after death. A similar case is reported by Teekteop. ICesteven's paper is elicited by the case of Amos Greenwood. The introductory remarks are those of caution to the forensic phy- sician, as lesions, similar to those from rape, are sometimes inten- tionally produced for the purpose of extorting money. In India such cases are frequent. The crune of rape is, according to Chevers, more common in India than in England. Hence our Indian possessions have afforded a more profitable field for ob- servations upon this crime. Crimes of all kinds, and of the deepest dye, are revealed as common practices, in Clievers's work on ' Medical Jui'isprudence for India.' A person named Amos Greenwood was convicted at the Liverpool Assizes, December, 1857, of rape upon an infant. Wilde published animadversions upon the case, believing the verdict to be contrary to evidence. Upon this Kesteven publishes the present paper, in wliich he discusses the opinions of twelve medical men, wliich had been given in reply to a series of questions addressed to them by Wilde. The paper concludes with a reprint of a paper by Kinder Wood, from the seventh volume of the 'Med.-Chir. Trans- actions,' on " Nomte pudendi." Upon tliis Wilde pubUshes observations, in wliich he shows that Mary Johnson, the aUeged ^dctim of the above charge of man- slaughter by rape, died of noma pudendi; that the charge of violence committed by Greenwood, and abandoned by Ivcstevcn,