14 is not a cancer. The microscope must be used, with all other methods of research, before we can approach the knowledge of one of those truths for want of which we are constantly practising in doubt, still casting upon the patient the responsibility we ought to take upon ourselves, still leaving things unsettled which have been unsettled for centuries past. I will not venture to anticipate what may be the result when modern methods of research are more generally used, or, when those to whom they are now familiar come to be the masters in surgery. I would rather point out another utility of the modern study of anatomy, which, if those that I have spoken of were all fallacious, would yet be enough to justify our urging it upon all students of surgery—I mean its utility in forming and strength- ening the mind for the promotion of science. For, truly, none but the scientific mind can rightly use the means that are necessary for the promotion of such an art as ours ; none other can at all estimate either the difficulty or the certainty of attaining the knowledge of truth by true in- quiry; none other can anticipate or elude the fallacies which lie in every path ; none other can be at once, and justly, both confident and cautious ; none other can maintain in itself that intellectual strength which is requisite in our emergencies. We must not forget that the emergencies of surgery are more those of the mind than of the hand. The dexterous hand is indeed a noble gift; he who wears it, wears the best mark of human form, an admirable symbol and in- strument of humanity; and we may well be content that our art should derive her name from the hand, while in chi- rurgery its divine mechanism finds some of its best employ. But much better than the dexterous hand is the instructed mind, clear, strong, resolute, and pliant, experienced in struggles against difficulty,—such a mind as can be educated only in the intricacies of some hard science. We need not look to far distant times for proofs of the utility of the scientific study of anatomy in forming the mind for surgery. We need only remember that Hunter was succeeded, not by anatomists, but by surgeons. Except