17 ing w-ith unblemished lustre the light that shines on them from heaven ; we whose common duties may be in works of charity and alms-deeds. If I may speak according to the occasion and the time in which we are met, what should be ovu: work in the great jubilee of peace ? We cannot watch without emotion the rising desire for peace which, as with one voice, swells up now from all the nations of the earth. For in peace our science finds its most congenial atmo- sphere. In peace alone there can be that free communion of thought which is essential to its rapid progress; and in peace alone we can live in that tranqiuUity in which we may pursue science with a steadfast purpose. We might almost say, that the recent progress of anatomy and the growing desire for peace have been commensurate. There may seem, indeed, to have been an interval between their first beginnings; but men needed to forget war before they would love peace. The last fierce conflict had long closed the thunderstorm of war, and yet the subdued roll of angry passions might be heard: the earth had borne her fruits for many years, and had covered up the barren places that her master's rage laid waste, and yet men's hearts would burn against those that had been their foes ; and the child's early lessons were to hate those who had been the enemies of his father's generation, and to think that nobler honours could be gained in war than in any of the arts of peace. It was reserved for these last times that men should feel how lovely peace may be, 'and that in this our happy England they should meet in concord, owning their mutual needs and mutual duties; uniting as if they would strive to show what may be achieved when all the various powers bestowed on men can be combined ; those powers of which we might be fain to think one was given to each nation in perfection, that each might wear the symbol of one of the manifold perfections of their common source. And what should the men of our science do at such a time ? How may we best be grateful! Surely by consecrating, with all sincerity and singleness of pur- pose, ourselves and our calling to the highest uses of wliich we can be capable. However far our science may range,