16 tain, that modern anatomy has promoted surgery by pro- moting in surgeons the scientific mind. And now, gentlemen, while I speak of our science, let me not lose so fair an occasion as this to magnify our calling- Let us constantly remind ourselves, that, we who are daily practitioners of an art, may also, if we will, be students of a most noble science. Consider to what it admits us. By the science which we may pursue, we may be admitted to the knowledge of the laws which have been observed in the noblest creatures of the earth during all figes. We may discern that one type of structure upon which all of our own race, and those most kindred to us, have been formed since the foundation of the world ; amidst the countless varieties of construction, all perfect in their adaptation to their several ends, we may still trace the relation to one common pattern : and from that study of types we may rise to the idea of an archetype, even to that idea which we maj' reverently believe was present in the Divine Mind before man was made, or the earth for his habitation. Where, in any science, shall we find a law so vast in its full expression^ or so manifold in its examples, as that which we may study— the law, I mean, of the common origin of all embryos, in the division of germ-cells ; or, where one more expressive of the constancy and power of the Lawgiver than that of the transient imitation of lower forms by the higher, as they pass through the successive phases of their development ? Where shall we find a science so manifold, so large as oiirs ; which, amidst all the diversities of minds, can yet furnish to each materials for the exercise of its highest powers, and for the enjoyment of its very keenest pleasures? Then let us think, if these be the advantages of our science, what are its responsibilities ? The study of things so large as these should surely raise us above the level of common men. "What manner of men ought we to be?" we who are the recipients of the continuous revelation of God's will in these latest and most glorious of his works; we who can trace tlie unerring Hand guiding, through all ages, with few harmonious laws, all things that move on earth; we about whose path the gem:* of science lie, reflect- II