4 ing, lectures were regularly delivered by physicians ap- pointed by the Court of Assistants of the Company of Barbers and Chirurgeons. In the early history of the Professorship, there is little that needs repeating. The teaching of both anatomy and surgery seems to have been very ill maintained by both the surgeons and the physicians who were successively appointed by the Court of Assistants of the Company. Year after year, the master-surgeons attempted in vain to compel themselves to lecture upon sm-gery; and, at one time, these principal members of our Pi'ofession were so in- different to the teaching of anatomy, that, at a Court of As- sistants, it was resolved unanimously, " That every member of the said Court, who at any time thereafter should attend any of the lectures upon anatomy to be delivered in the theatre, should be entitled to, and receive the sum of 5s. out of the cash of the Company." It was just before this very cheap devotion of themselves to the personal encouragement of scientific teaching, that the Court had required their lecturer upon anatomy to give lec- tures upon surgery also. From this, therefore, we may be- lieve that the double office of Professor of Anatomy and Surgery arose. The double title was not given till 1803, when the Company of Surgeons, having acquired the title of a College by the Royal Charter, assumed a more appropriate dignity and order ; and, among their first acts, the Council regulated the Professoi'ships, and abolished the bounty of 5s. for listening to the Professors. When we look back on a time in the history of our science so barren as this; when we think of the time that was wasted, and of the energy misspent in trivialities (for the AVor- shipful Company were all this time very busy in their own affairs), we are apt to think hardly of such an age, and to suppose, that if the men of our generation had lived then, scientific surgery would have been now far advanced be- yond the state of childhood and uncertain progress. But, perhaps, in all such judgments of the past we may be very wrorg. In the early history of sciences, as in that of our organic life, there are periods of repose, brooding times, in