74 PLATE XXXVII. MUSCLES A Abductor minimi digiti. B Flexor brevis digitorum. C Abductor hallucis. D Edge of internal annular ligament. E Tendon of flexor longus hallucis. F Tendon of flexor longus digitorum. G Origin of adductor hallucis from long plantar ligament. G' Insertion of adductor hallucis. H Origin of flexor brevis hallucis from cuboid. H' Insertion of flexor brevis hallucis, showing its two heads. K Transversus pedis (abductor trans- versus). L Flexor brevis minimi digiti. M Tendon of peroneus longus. M' Insertion of peroneus longus into internal cuneiform and first meta- tarsal bones, a distinct slip going to the second metatarsal. N Plantar interossei. 0 Dorsal interossei (the numbers show the different muscles in both sets). P Long plantar ligament. Q Origin of flexor accessorius’, inner head. R Short plantar ligament. 8 Placed over internal cuneiform on in- sertion of tibialis posticus. T Placed over scaphoid on tendon of insertion of tibialis posticus. U Inferior calcaneo-cuboid or spring ligament. V Posterior edge of external cuneiform. W Anterior edge of scaphoid. X Slip from tendon of tibialis posticus breaking up for its insertion into tarsal and metatarsal bones. Y Capsular ligament of first tarso-meta- tarsal joint. Z Rough surface over bases of 2, 3, 4 metatarsal bones, from which the abductor hallucis arose. * Glenoid plates, to the edges of which the deep slips of the plantar fascia are seen attached. VESSELS a Termination of the posterior tibial artery. b Internal plantar. c External plantar. d First digital. e Second digital. / Muscular twigs. g Third digital. h Fourth digital. k Communicating artery from the dorsa- lis pedis to complete the deep plantar arch. I Branch from k, which in this case joins the princeps hallucis, instead of forming it, the princeps coming directly from the internal plantar. NERVES 1 Internal plantar. 2 External plantar. 3 Digital branches of the external plantar (cut). 4 Muscular branches to the flexor brevis minimi digiti. 5 To third plantar. 6 To fourth dorsal. 7 To second plantar. 8 To third dorsal. 9 To first plantar. 10 To second dorsal. 11 To first dorsal. 12 Branches which gave off nerves to the transversus pedis and then ended by passing under the glenoid plates to supply the metatarso-phalangeal joints.