98 PLATE XL1X. MUSCLES AND FASCLE A Cut edge of tentorium. B Cut edge of falx cerebri. C Falx cerebelli. D Dura mater bridging over the fifth nerve and entering into the roof of Meckel’s cave. E Placed over the dorsum sellae. G Anterior extremity of the falx cerebri attached to crista galli. H Superior oblique. H' Tendon of superior oblique. I Internal rectus. K Inferior rectus. L External rectus. M Superior rectus. N Levator palpebrse. 0 Lachrymal gland. P Inferior oblique. R Inner surface of the temporal muscle. S External pterygoid. T Top of the interarticular cartilage of the temporo-maxillary joint. V Top of condyle of the lower jaw. W Anterior clinoid process. X Placed by the foramen ovale. Y Placed by the foramen rotundum. Z The roof of the optic foramen turned inwards with the origins of the levator palpebras and superior rectus. a Internal carotid. b Internal carotid in cavernous sinus, c Ophthalmic artery. d Lachrymal artery. e Recurrent branch of lachrymal to middle / Ciliary arteries. [fossa g Ophthalmic artery. h Anterior ethmoidal. i Infra-orbital branch of internal max- illary. k Deep temporal branch of internal maxillary. 1 Infundibulum leading through dura mater to pituitary body. 2 Optic nerve. 3 Third nerve. 4 Upper division of third supplying levator palpebras and superior rectus. 5 Nerve to the inferior oblique from in- ferior division of third nerve. 6 Branch of third to inferior rectus. 7 Fourth nerve. 8 Sixth nerve 9 Fifth nerve just before passing over the superior border of the petrosal bone. 10 Gasserian ganglion. 11 Third division of fifth. 12 Second division of fifth. 13 First or ophthalmic division of fifth. 14 Frontal and nasal branches of first division of fifth cut (left side). 15 Frontal branch of ophthalmic cut (right side). 16 Nasal branch of ophthalmic. 17 Lachrymal branch of ophthalmic. I Middle meningeal, m Its anterior division. n Its posterior division. o Its petrosal branch. p Ganglionic branch of internal carotid. r Vertebrals. s Posterior cerebellar. t Commencement of superior longitudinal sinus. u End of superior longitudinal sinus. v End of straight sinus. w Lateral sinus laid open. 18 Lenticular ganglion, entering the back of which is the ganglionic branch of the nasal. 19 Long ciliary branch of nasal. 20 Infra-trochlear branch of nasal. 21 Ciliary branches of the lenticular ganglion. 22 Deep temporal branches of third division of fifth. 23 Masseteric branch of same. 24 Pterygoid and buccal branches of same. 25 Great superficial petrosal. 26 Lesser superficial petrosal. 27 External petrosal. 28 Seventh or portio dura. 29 Pars intermedia. 30 Auditory or portio mollis. 31 Glosso-pharyngeal. 32 Vagus. 33 Spinal portion of spinal accessory. 34 Hypoglossal. 35 Infra-orbital from second division of fifth.