54 PLATE XXVII. MUSCLES A Gluteus medius. A' Gluteus medius insertion. B Gluteus minimus. C Pyriformis. D Placed on the deep (tendinous) surface of the obturator internus. D' Insertion of the obturator and gemelli, turned back. E Superior gemellus. F Inferior gemellus. G Obturator externus. H Quadratus femoris. I Adductor magnus. J Part of adductor magnus, which is sometimes called adductor quartus or minimus. K Insertion of gluteus maximus. L Biceps and semitendinosus cut and turned back. M Semimembranosus. N Vastus externus. 0 Pectineus. P Psoas tendon. S Tensor vaginae femoris. T Great sacro-sciatic ligament. R Small trochanter. V Great trochanter (posterior superior angle). Y Capsule of hip-joint. Z Lesser sacro-sciatic ligament. VESSELS a Gluteal artery. b Its superficial division. c Its deep division. d Its anastomotic branch to digital fossa. e Sciatic artery. / Its coccygeal branch. g Its anastomotic branch to digital fossa. h Internal pudic. i Terminal branch of internal circumflex exiting between quadratus femoris and adductor magnus. k Ascending branch of internal circum- flex running up in front of quadratus to digital fossa to anastomose with d and g. I First perforating artery from the pro- funda femoris. NERVES 1 Great sciatic. 2 Small sciatic. 3 Inferior gluteal. 4 Superior gluteal. 4' Branch to the tensor vaginas femoris. 5 Internal pudic. 6 Nerve to obturator internus and superior gemellus. 7 Nerve to quadratus femoris. 8 Branch of 7 to the inferior gemellus. 9 Branch of 7 to hip-joint. 10 Cutaneous branch from posterior primary division, first sacral. 11 Cutaneous branch from posterior primary division, second sacral. 12 Cutaneous branch from posterior primary division, third sacral. 13 Cutaneous branch from posterior primary division, fourth sacral. 14 Fifth sacral. 15 Coccygeal. 16 Perforating cutaneous nerve from the anterior branch of the fourth, or third and fourth sacral. 17 Branches from great sciatic to the hamstrings. Note.—The nerve to the tensor vaginas femoris usually runs through the fibres of the gluteus minimus.