PLATE XLIX, Natural Size. INTERIOR OF SKULL WITH TENTORIUM REMOVED AND DEEP VIEW OF ORBITS, GASSERIAN GANGLION, AND PTERYGOID REGION FROM ABOVE. This dissection is a deeper one on the same body as the preceding, only the tentorium has been completely removed and the lateral sinus opened up in the whole of its course. The dura mater of the middle fossa forming the roof of Meckel’s space has been turned back to expose the Gasserian ganglion. On the right side the floor and side of the middle fossa has been cut away to expose the external pterygoid muscle from above with the course of the masseteric and deep temporal nerves. The lateral sinuses, if examined, will be found to be unequal in size, the right being usually the larger; it generally receives the blood from the superior longitudinal sinus, i.e. the chief part of the blood from the surface of the brain, while the left and smaller usually receives the straight sinus, which again takes the blood from the central ganglia. In the early foetal condition the lateral sinuses empty chiefly into the external jugular through the mastoid foramen, but as development proceeds this gradually lessens, the internal jugular becoming developed as the chief means of exit. The Emissary veins are those which communicate through apertures in the skull both with the veins within and those without. The chief are : 1. Through the foramen caecum between the superior longitudinal sinus and veins of the nose ; this is often obliterated in adults. 2. Through the parietal foramen between the superior longitudinal sinus and veins of the scalp. 3. Through the occipital protuberance between the Torcular Herophili and the occipital vein. 4. Through the mastoid foramen between the lateral sinus and posterior external jugular. 5. Through the posterior condyloid between the lateral sinus and posterior vertebral vein. 6. Through the anterior condyloid between the occipital sinus and the deep veins of the neck. 7. Through foramen Yesalii or foramen ovale, between the cavernous sinus and the veins of the pterygoid plexus. 8. Through small veins around the carotid artery the cavernous plexus communi- cates with the internal jugular. 9. Although hardly an emissary vein, a communication exists between the ophthalmic vein and the angular, thus connecting the cavernous sinus with the facial vein. 10. A communication exists between the occipital sinus and the posterior spinal veins ; this again is barely an emissary vein in the correct sense of the term. 11. A communication exists between the cavernous sinus and the veins outside the base of the skull through the foramen lacerum medium. 12. A pair of veins usually pass through the foramen spinosum to communicate between the meningeal veins and the veins of the exterior. 13. There is sometimes a vein passing through the foramen rotundum.