PLATE XVIII. THE SUPERFICIAL VIEW OF THE FRONT OF THIGH, FASCIA LATA, AND SAPHENOUS OPENING. In this dissection the superficial fascia and the cribriform fascia have been entirely removed in order to show the saphenous opening in the fascia lata. The cutaneous nerve supply to the front of the thigh is shown in the annexed diagram : (a) external cutaneous branch [2 and 3 L]; (b) the gluteal branch of the external cutaneous pass- ing backwards; (c) middle cutaneous branch of the anterior crural; (d) crural branch of the genito-crural [1 and 2 L] ; (e) ilio-inguinal nerve [1 L]; (/) small upper cutaneous twigs from the internal cutaneous; (g) internal cutaneous piercing fascia lata in two branches ; (h) patellar branch of the long saphenous ; (k) long saphenous. The position of Poupart’s liga- ment is indicated by a thick dotted line. The saphenous opening is an oval opening in the fascia lata formed by the difference in level of the outer or iliac and the inner or pubic portions. The iliac portion is attached to the whole length of Poupart’s ligament as far as the pubic spine; from this point its inner edge curves outwards and downwards superficial to the femoral vessels, exposing the inner part of their sheath, forming a sickle-like edge—the falciform edge of the saphenous opening ; it then passes under the long saphenous vein to join the inner or pectineal portion. The pectineal portion of the fascia lata passes over the pectineus muscle, being attached above to the ilio-pec- tineal line and Gimbernat’s ligament; and, passing behind the sheath of the femoral vessels, with which it is blended, is continued into the fascia covering the psoas muscle. The superficial or iliac portion of the fascia lata, although attached to the front of the sheath of the femoral vessels, can easily be separated by using the handle of the scalpel. Thus the saphenous opening is bounded externally and in front by the falciform edge of the iliac portion of the fascia lata, and internally and behind by the pectineal portion. Stretching across from one side to the other is a thin plane of areolar tissue which is perforated by the various vessels, and hence has been called the cribriform fascia ; it is a most indefinite structure, which is attached to the falciform process externally, and joins the superficial fascia internally, and until it is cleared away the falciform edge cannot be well seen. This opening is important surgically on account of its allowing a femoral hernia to exit when it becomes complete: it gives passage to the lymphatics entering the crural canal to join the deep inguinal glands, the superficial veins, and pudic and epigastric arteries.