100 PLATE L. MUSCLES A Pharyngeal aponeurosis showing above the edge of the superior constrictor. This space is called the sinus of Morgagni. B Superior constrictor. C Middle constrictor. D Inferior constrictor. E Placed over the great cornua of the hyoid bone. F (Esophagus. G Trachea. H Thyroid gland. I Posterior belly of the digastric. K Stylo-hyoid. L Stylo-pharyngeus. M Internal pterygoid. N Levator palati. 0 Masseter. P Sterno-mastoid. R Trachelo-mastoid and splenius turned back. 8 Parotid gland. T Submaxillary gland. U Posterior edge of ramus of jaw. V Base of styloid process. W Rectus capitis anticus major. X Rectus capitis anticus minor. Y Basilar process of the occipital bone. Z Jugular fossa. * Digastric fossa. VESSELS a Common carotid. b Internal carotid. c External carotid. d Facial. e Submaxillary branch of facial. f Superior thyroid. g Occipital. in Meningeal branch of the occipital ascending to pass through jugular foramen. Jc Sterno-mastoid twig of occipital. Z Posterior auricular. to Stylo-mastoid branch of posterior auricular. n Ascending pharyngeal. o Meningeal branch of the ascending 1 Glosso-pharyngeal. 2 Pharyngeal branches of glosso- pharyngeal. 3 Muscular twig to glosso-pharyngeus. 4 Pneumogastric. 5 Pharyngeal branches of vagus. 6 Superior laryngeal branch of vagus. 7 Internal laryngeal branch of vagus. 8 External laryngeal branch of vagus. 9 Pharyngeal twig from the external laryngeal. 10 Twigs to thyroid gland from external laryngeal. 11 Spinal accessory. 12 Accessory portion of spinal accessory joining the lower ganglion of vagus. 13 Hypoglossal. 14 Descendens noni (cervicis). pharyngeal passing through jugular foramen. p Pharyngeal branches of ascending pharyngeal. r Ascending palatine branch of facial. s Sterno-mastoid branch of superior thyroid. t Internal jugular vein. v Internal maxillary artery. w Inferior thyroid vessels. x Temporo-maxillary vein. y Posterior division of temporo-maxillary going to join external jugular. z Anterior division joining with the * Facial and emptying into the internal jugular. 15 Superior cervical ganglion of sym- pathetic. 16 Pharyngeal branches from the sym- pathetic ganglion. 17 The ascending branches of the sym- pathetic splitting on the internal carotid to form the plexuses. 18 Lingual nerve. 19 Inferior dental. 20 Communication from first cervical to hypoglossal. 21 Sixth pair of nerves. 22 Seventh and eighth pair. 23 Fifth pair. 24 Fourth pair. 25 Facial nerve. 26 Recurrent laryngeal.