iv PREFACE dissections on the head and neck to crowd all the necessary detail into plates only two-thirds the natural size, full-size ones were substituted, and in order to give a good view of the anterior wall of the abdomen two double plates have been introduced. The diagrams, upon which much time has been spent, are mostly from original work done by the author during his demonstratorship at the Middlesex Hospital Medical School; those in the First Part—the upper limb—being found too small, the rest have been drawn upon a larger scale and in a bolder method. And here I must express my gratitude to Professor Cunningham and Dr. Rolleston for kindly giving me leave to reproduce diagrams in the 4 abdomen ’ (Part IV.), which I hope will prove useful to a better understanding of its anatomy. To Mr. Percy Highley great credit is due for the masterly way in which he has both drawn from nature and placed the plates on stone, and for rapidly grasping and representing artistically the intentions of the author. All the bony outlines of the cuts have been drawn from the skeleton, and in introducing the outline of the bones—a new feature •—the relative positions of the bony landmarks to the cutaneous tissues have been shown. To Mr. Dobbin and Mr. A. G. Noble the author returns sincere thanks for their help in making some of the dissections, the former chiefly in Parts I. and II., and the latter especially in the last Part, where his name will be found conjoined with that of the author. To Mr. R. T. Kent, F.R.C.S., the Dean of the St. Mungo School of Medicine at Glasgow, the author is much indebted for kindly placing at his disposal the necessary material for the dissection of Plate 73. The author returns his sincere thanks to Dr. Guthrie, who kindly read through and criticised the letterpress of the last two Parts and made many valuable suggestions as to its revision. Nor would this Preface be complete without a reference to the great kindness with which the author was treated by his old teacher and friend —the late Mr. Arthur Hensman—both in the granting of material upon which to make the dissections, and in the kindly criticism of the First Part. 0. GORDON BRODIE.