PLATE VIII. FRONT OF FOREARM, THIRD VIEW. This shows a still deeper dissection of the front of the forearm. The flexor sublimis digitorum has been cut away from its radial origin, and its origin from the internal condyle, internal lateral ligament, and coronoid process turned inwards; its tendons have been cut short at the wrist, showing the order in which they pass under the annular ligament. The ulnar artery is thus also exposed with the deep layer of muscles. The relation of the median nerve to the ulnar artery is well shown as the nerve passes between the two heads of the pronator radii teres. If a comparison he made between the radial artery in Plate VII. and the ulnar in this plate, it will be clearly seen how superficial the radial lies and how easily it is reached by merely turning back the edge of the supinator longus, whilst the ulnar is placed deeply and is not nearly so accessible, lying as it does beneath the pronator and the flexor muscles arising from the internal condyle of the humerus. Look out carefully for an occasional fusiform slip of origin of the flexor longus pollicis, which arises from the ulna just below the deep origin of the pronator radii teres, and runs down to join the ulnar border of the long flexor of the thumb. This is, according to Professor Macalister, the remains of the obsolete superficial flexor of the thumb. After finishing this layer of muscles, cut away the flexores profundus digitorum and longus pollicis, and examine the pronator quadratus which lies beneath them covered in by a special fascia of transverse fibres, in which, towards the radial side, are usually to he seen a number of glistening longitudinal ones; they are the degenerate remains of a muscle called the flexor carpi radialis brevior (Wood), which in its fully developed state arises from the radius just above the pronator, and, passing down, is inserted into the second or third metacarpal bone, or, aborting, is attached to one of the carpal bones or fibrous tissue in front of the carpus.