PLATE LY. SECOND ANTERIOR VIEW OF THORAX. In tliis plate the lungs have been drawn aside to uncover the pericardium; this has been opened to show the position of the heart and great vessels. Aeby 1 opposes the idea that the bronchi divide dichotomously as they pass into the lungs, and states that each tube passes in as an axial stem in the lung substance, giving off branches in definite directions. These branches can be divided into primary, and secondary or accessory branches which are probably only subdivisions of the primary that have become implanted on the axial trunks. The primary branches are in two sets: those given off in front of the pulmonary artery—eparterial; and those given off behind—hyparterial, the latter arise from the outer surface of the stem bronchus and pass in two directions, some ventrally and some dorsally. The pulmonary artery as it passes backwards lies on the outer surface of the axial bronchus, between the two sets. Small and more irregular branches arise on the inner surface of the axial bronchus; these are the accessory bronchi. Thus the arrangement is more bipinnate than dichotomous. If the human bronchi be examined it will be seen that the right one gives off a branch above 2 the place where the pulmonary artery crosses it, this is not represented on the left side, it is the eparterial bronchus: and thus Aeby supposes that the lobe of the lung to which it is distributed is also absent on the left side, and that the middle lobe of the right lung represents the whole of the upper lobe on the left; for all the rest of the bronchi come off below the crossing of the pulmonary artery, and hence are hyparterial. His has shown that in the development of the human lung, the right bronchus possesses at first only two buds which correspond to the eparterial and first ventral hyparterial bronchi; while the left bronchus has but one such bud, which corresponds to the first ventral hyparterial bronchus. The branching on the left side is more profuse than on the right, an especially strong dorsal branch being given off which runs upwards. This is unrepresented on the right side and compensates for the loss of the eparterial bronchus. In the sheep and ox the eparterial bronchus of the right upper lobe springs from the trachea, and this condition has been met with in the human subject. In some animals eparterial branches spring from both bronchi and supply corresponding lobes in the two lungs. 1 Aeby, Der Bronchialbaum der Sdugethiere und des Menschen. Leipzig, 1887. 2 In quadrupeds the term in front of the pulmonary artery corresponds to above in the human subject, and behind to below.