PLATE XXVII. THE BUTTOCK, GLUTEUS MINIMUS, &c. In this dissection the gluteus maximus has been entirely removed from its origin from the sacro-sciatic ligament, &c., in order to show the plexiform arrangement of the posterior primary branches of the sacral nerves, which lie in the ligament covered over by its superficial fibres. The gluteus medius has also been divided and the ends turned aside in order to expose the minimus and the tensor vaginas femoris, the gluteal nerve and deep part of the gluteal artery. Some little difficulty will be experienced in separat- ing the anterior fibres of the medius from those oi the minimus in front and below, owing to their being blended. The superior and inferior gemelli are shown as one continuous muscular sheet lying under the obturator internus tendon, and arising from the edge of the cartilage-covered surface over which the tendon glides : this is the more usual condition in muscular subjects, but often the muscle sub- stance is absent in the centre, and then the muscles have been rightly described as two—superior and inferior gemellus, The dissector should also note that the tendon of the obturator lies on its deep surface next the bone, which is here grooved and covered by cartilage. The accompanying diagram shows mua more clearly than a description the dis- tribution and plexiform arrangement of So the posterior primary divisions of the sacral nerves. As a rule, the three first external branches only become cutane- ous, but the fourth may do so; the inter- nal branches of the first three supply the multifidus spinse. The fourth usually joins the fifth and the coccygeal to form a nerve twig, which is lost in the tissue at the back of the coccyx. Note on the Crucial Anastomosis.— At the back of the thigh in the neigh- prilsr/b^X bourhood of the quadratus femoris there is usually described a cruciform anastomosis, composed of the sciatic from above, the internal circumflex from in front, the first perforating from below and the external circumflex coming round below the trochanter through the fibres of the vastus externus ; as thus described it is not often seen. There are generally two large anastomoses at the back of the thigh, one between the sciatic, gluteal, and internal circumflex in the digital fossa, and another usually just beneath the edge of the hamstrings formed of the sciatic first perforating and internal circumflex. The first perforating sends a branch through the gluteus maximus into the vastus externus, and this anastomoses with the external circumflex; but the latter does not usually come round to the back of the thigh.