PLATE I, THE AXILLA, SUPERFICIAL VIEW. The cutaneous nerves which supply the front of thorax and upper arm are indicated by black lines in the accompanying diagram, viz. (<x) Sternal, (b) clavicular, (c) acromial branches from the cervical plexus (3 and 4 c); (d) anterior, and (e) lateral cutaneous branches of the inter- costals; (/) branches from circumflex; (g) upper branches of the internal cutaneous. The position of the bones is shown in faint outline. The axilla is a pyramidal space with the base directed downwards and outwards, and covered in by dense fascia ; and the apex directed upwards and inwards between the clavicle and first rib. The boundaries are :— In front: Pectoralis major and minor, costo-coracoid membrane, and subclavius muscle. Behind: Subscapularis, latissimus dorsi, and teres major muscles. Externally: Coraco-brachialis and biceps muscles, and humerus. Internally: About five ribs, their intercostals, and five serrations of serratu3 magnus. It contains the axillary vessels and brachial plexus of nerves running along its outer wall, with their branches. Lymphatic glands: one set along the line of the vessels receiving the lymph from the arm; another along the edge of the pectoralis major, receiving the lymph from the breast and front of thorax ; and a third set along the line of the subscapular vessels, receiving the lymph from the back of thorax. There are also lateral branches of the intercostal nerves, and the space is filled with a packing of fat. The intercosto-humeral nerve, the lateral cutaneous branch of the second inter- costal nerve, usually sends a branch to join the nerve of Wrisberg ; but if the latter is larger than usual, it will in turn give off one to join the intercosto-humeral, as in the plate. The first intercostal nerve usually sends no lateral cutaneous branch, but it is occasionally present (/vide Plate III.) and then generally joins the nerve of Wrisberg, giving a twig to join the intercosto-humeral. The nerve-twig marked (7) is a special branch of the musculo-spiral to the lower fibres of the internal head of the triceps, and from its course parallel to, and being sometimes bound up with, the ulnar nerve, it is called the ulnar collateral. The posterior or long thoracic is also known as the external respiratory nerve of Bell.