PLATE XXIV. THE DORSUM OF THE FOOT. The anterior annular ligament is divisible into two portions, an upper vertical, which stretches across from the tibia to the fibula, and is merely a thickening in the deep fascia ; and a lower or horizontal, which starts from the anterior rough upper surface of the os calcis, and, passing as a strong band over the tendons of the extensor longus digitorum and peroneus tertius, sends a strong slip behind them to reach the starting- point at the os calcis : thus these tendons are enclosed in a pulley-like band. The rest of the ligament is not so clearly defined, and consists of two parts, one of which passes up over the extensor longus hallucis and then splits to enclose the tendon of the tibialis anticus before its insertion into the tibia, while the other passes over both the extensor longus hallucis and tibialis anticus to lose itself in the fascia over the inner side of the foot. The pulley-like portion of the ligament is the only part of the lower band which is repeated in most animals, and plays the same part there as in man. The extensor brevis digitorum is an interesting example of a migrating muscle, shifting its attachment. This has been traced by Dr. Ruge.1 In monotremes the muscle arises entirely from the fibula, the belly for the tendon to the fifth toe being easily separable from the rest, and having a higher attachment to the bone. In thylacine mar- supials the whole muscle arises from the fibula, the tendons passing behind the external malleolus, whereas in Didelphys cancrivora the belly for the great toe has descended to take a pedal attachment from the os calcis, giving a small muscular slip to the short extensor tendon of the second toe, which has its chief origin with the third and fourth from the fibula, the fifth still being highest in origin and separated from the rest. In cuscus and koala two bellies are pedal (2 and 8), and two fibular in origin—the fourth and fifth—which still pass behind the malleolus to reach the foot. In carnivora both the lion and the cat have three muscular bellies pedal in attachment springing from the os calcis and annular ligament of the long extensor, the inner belly again splitting, while the fifth still arises from a muscular belly high up on the fibula, and passes behind the external malleolus to its insertion. In the monkeys, Ateles and Macacus rhoesus, the fifth tendon is still arising from the fibula and passing down behind the external malleolus in close proximity to the peroneus brevis, while the rest of the muscle is pedal. In man there is a pedal extensor brevis sending tendons to the four inner toes, there being no extensor (as such) to the fifth, but the peroneus brevis always sends forwards a slip to join the extensor longus of the fifth digit, which it joins on its outer side: this is probably the fifth tendon of the extensor brevis which in migrating has lost its muscular mass, and whose sole remains is the tendinous slip blended with the peroneus brevis; it also throws light upon that muscular anomaly known as the peroneus quinti digiti, which is probably a retrogression to the original condition. Dr. Ruge con- siders that the outgrowth of the external malleolus in monkeys and man stops the further distal migration of this muscle, which either perishes, as in the orang, or the belly of its muscle becomes partially adherent with the peroneus brevis (as in cebus), or wholly adherent, as in the chimpanzee, gorilla, and man. Morph. Jahrbuch, 1878, p. 592.