PLATE XXII. THE INNER SIDE OF THE KNEE AND POPLITEAL SPACE, &c. This plate shows a dissection to expose the popliteal space from the inner side, and also exposing the insertion of the gracilis, sartorius, and semitendinosus. A window has been cut in Hunter’s canal to show the femoral artery, and also the long saphenous nerve. The origin of the lower fibres of the vastus internus from the tendinous insertion of the adductor magnus is well seen. While dissecting this region compare the difference in level between the origin of the muscular fibres of the quadriceps extensor on the inside and outside, and it will he found that the inner ones arise from the insertion of the adductor magnus nearly down to the condyle, while the external cease much higher up; thus the external are inserted more obliquely than the internal. Bearing in mind that the patella rests more on the outer condyle of the femur than the inner, is not this lower origin of the inner portion of the quadriceps to act as a brace on the patella and counteract the tendency for it to slip still further outwards ? The close connection of the insertion of the adductor magnus into the internal condyle, and the origin of the internal lateral ligament just below it, suggests that these two structures might be related, and in a human foetus of the fourth month the adductor magnus will be observed to be inserted into the head of the tibia, while in the young orang it is directly continuous with the ligament, so that there are reasons for considering this ligament as a divorced part of the adductor magnus.1 The wide aponeurotic insertion of the sartorius is well known, and in dissecting it the lower part sends a strongish slip into the fascia of the leg, the fibres of which can be traced down nearly as far as the ankle: this may possibly be adduced as the reason why the long saphenous nerve has such an extensive skin supply, reaching as far as the ball of the great toe, thus following the law, that a nerve supplying a muscle sup- plies also the skin over the area of its muscular action. A similar instance occurs in the arm where the biceps is inserted through the bicipital fascia into the fascia of the arm : it is supplied by the musculo-cutaneous nerve, which also supplies the skin over the fascia acted on by the biceps as far down as the wrist. Mr. Bland Sutton, Ligaments—Nature and Morphology.