PLATE XXXVIII. THE POSTERIOR TRIANGLE. This plate shows a dissection of the posterior triangle of the neck after removal of the cervical fascia which roofs it in, and the dense fibro-fatty tissue it contains. The upper portion of the triangle is that which needs most care, as the connective tissue i3 extremely tough and fibrous. The Posterior triangle is bounded— In front.—By the posterior edge of the sterno-mastoid. Behind.—By the anterior edge of the trapezius. Below.—-By the middle third of the clavicle. The Floor is formed from above downward by the splenius, levator anguli scapulae, scalenus medius and posticus, and the first serration of the serratus magnus appears in the lower and outer portion of the triangle when the arm is strongly depressed. It is divided into two tri- angles by theomo-hyoid muscle, which crosses its lower part obliquely, an upper and larger, the occipital, and a lower and smaller—the subclavian, the size of which varies as the omo-hyoid crosses higher or lower above the clavicle. The Occipital triangle contains— The cervical plexus, and its small occipital, great auri- cular, superficial cervical, de- scending or supra-clavicular branches, muscular branches to the levator anguli scapulae, communicating branches to the spinal accessory (those from the third and fourth also supplying the trapezius), the spinal accessory, upper cords of the brachial plexus, nerve to the rhomboids, and nerve to the subclavius, the supra-scapular and origin of the posterior thoracic. The transverse cervical, superficial ascending cervical and posterior scapular artery and veins, posterior jugular vein. The glandulae concatenatae along the posterior edge of sterno-mastoid. The Subclavian triangle contains— The subclavian artery (third part), the transverse cervical and supra-scapular vessels, the end of the external and posterior jugular veins. The cords of the brachial plexus, supra-scapular and posterior thoracic nerves and nerve to the subclavius muscle. Diagram of the Cervical Plexus