PLATE XXY. THE BUTTOCK (GLUTEUS MAXIMUS). This dissection is to show the gluteus maximus : the superficial layer of the fascia lata which covers it has been removed and cut short along the outer edge of the muscle. The cutaneous nerve supply of this region is indicated by the accompanying dia- gram : (a) Gluteal recurrent branch of the external cutaneous [2 and 3 L], I (a') Branches from the external cuta- neons supplying the outer side of the I thigh, (b) Lateral branch of the last ) dorsal nerve, (c) Iliac branch of / the ilio-hypogastric. Both these two J are derived from the anterior primary / divisions of the spinal nerves. (d) Ex- ternal branches of the posterior primary divisions of the first and second lumbar nerves, (e) External branches of the posterior divisions of the sacral nerves. (/) Perforating cutaneous nerve from the third and fourth anterior divisions of the sacral nerves. (g) Gluteal branches of the small sciatic. (h, i) Internal and external cutaneous branches of the small sciatic to back of thigh. (k) Terminal branch of small sciatic which pierces the fascia at the upper part of the popliteal space, and supplies the skin as far as middle of calf. (Z) Inferior pudendal or nerve of Som- mering. (m) Cutaneous branch of the obturator, (n) Pos- terior branch of the internal cutaneous. The other side of the diagram shows Lizars’s lines, which are the guides for finding the position of the gluteal and sciatic arteries at the point of their emergence from the pelvis. For the gluteal, bisect the line A B drawn between the tuber ischii and great trochanter at C, and draw a line from this point to the posterior superior spine of the ilium; trisect this line C E, and the upper point of trisection will be about the point at which the artery emerges. For the sciatic trisect the line A B and join the inner trisection with the posterior superior spine ; this line bisected will indicate about the spot where it emerges from the pelvis. Nor should Nelaton’s line be forgotten, as it is important clinically: it is marked out by joining the anterior superior iliac spine with the anterior part of the tuber ischii; it just crosses the top of the great trochanter, and affords a ready means of recognising displacemenfs from dislocations or fractures of the neck of the femur. The fold of the buttock has nothing to do with the edge of the gluteus maximus ; it is below the edge of the muscle at the inner part of the thigh, crossing it externally, and being best marked just below the ischial tuberosity. It is due to the relaxation of the skin in the erect position, and is lost when the thigh is flexed.1 The subcutaneous tissue of this region in many of the negro races is an extremely thick layer, forming a regular pad or cushion. The large size of the gluteus maximus is characteristic of man, its chief use being to extend the thigh, and thus maintain the body in the erect position; even in the anthropoid apes it is not nearly so well developed, and is less again in mammals. The part arising from the coccyx and sacrum may be separated, thus representing the agitator cauda3 of animals. It has the coarsest fascicles of any muscle in the body. 1 Dr. Symington, Journal of Anatomy and Physiology, vol. xviii. p. 198.