82 PLATE XVI. MUSCLES A Tricep3. B Biceps. C Brachialis anticus. D Anconeus. E Supinator longus. F Extensor carpi radialis longior. 6 Extensor carpi radialis brevior. H Supinator brevis. I Extensor ossis metacarpi pollicis. K Extensor primi internodii pollicis. L Extensor secundi internodii pollicis. M Extensor indicis. N Extensor medius. 0 Cut origins of tbe extensor minimi digiti and communis digitorum. P Cut origin of extensor carpi ulnaris. P' Tendon of extensor carpi ulnaris (in- sertion). R Insertion of pronator radii tere3. S Dorsal interossei. T Adductor pollicis. V Abductor minimi digiti. X Posterior ligament of wrist. Y Flexor ossis metacarpi minimi digiti. VESSELS a Posterior interosseous artery. b Recurrent branch of posterior inter- osseous, ascending under cover of anconeus. c Posterior terminal branch of superior profunda. d Radial artery. e Posterior carpal of radial. / Metacarpal of radial coming off, as it often does, in common with the posterior carpal. g Posterior carpal of ulnar. li Dorsalis indicis. i Metacarpal arteries from posterior carpal arch. k Posterior branches of anterior inter- osseous artery. I Radial recurrent. NERVES 1 Posterior interosseous. 2 Its muscular branches to the extensores carpi ulnaris, communis digitorum, and minimi digiti. 3 Terminal branch, with slight enlarge- ment (pseudo-ganglion) on it at wrist. 4 Its branch to extensor ossis metacarpi pollicis. 5 Its branch to extensor primi internodii pollicis. C Its branch to extensor secundi inter- nodii pollicis. 7 Its branch to the extensores indicis and medius. 8 Musculo-spiral. 9 Its branch to supinator longus. 10 Its branch to extensor carpi radialis longior.1 11 Its branch to brachialis anticus. 12 Branch to extensor carpi radialis brevior.2 3 4 5 18 Radial nerve. 14 Branch of posterior interosseous to supinator brevis. * The branch from the musculo-spiral to (F) the extensor carpi radialis longior in the small sketch has been numbered 9 instead of 10. - The branch to the extensor carpi radialis brevior usually comes off from the posterior inter- osseous, but here it came off from the musculo-spiral, and ran down loosely attached to the radial nerve from which it appears in the plate to take its origin.