PLATE XVI. THE DEEP DISSECTION OF BACK OF FOREARM. In this dissection the extensores communis digitorum, minimi digiti, and carpi ulnaris have been cut away to expose the deep layer of muscles in the forearm, and the posterior interosseous artery and nerve. Note on the Extensor medius.—A separate tendon to the middle finger is not uncommon ; it usually arises by a muscular belly attached to the posterior surface of the ulna below the extensor indicis ; its tendon runs down through the same com- partment of the annular ligament as the extensor communis digitorum, but deep to it, and joins the common extensor tendon of the middle finger in the same way as the extensor indicis joins with that of the index finger. Thus the extensor tendons may be divided into two sets—a common set, which is superficial (the extensor communis digitorum); and a special set, of which the extensor minimi digiti is superficial and constant, the extensor indicis deep and constant, the extensor medius deep and fairly frequent; the only one missing being the extensor annularis, which is very rare; but, as Mr. Sutton has pointed out, if the fascia of the forearm be carefully examined, a thin glistening band of tendinous fibres will be seen lying in it, in the intermuscular septum between the extensor carpi ulnaris and the extensor minimi digiti, arising in common with the latter, and passing down to become lost in the fibrous tissue at the back of the wrist. This, in Mr. Sutton’s opinion, is probably the degenerate remains of the extensor annularis, which in process of shifting its origin from the condyle of the humerus to the ulna has become lost. This opinion is strengthened by the fact that the extensor minimi digiti does not arise by muscular fibres from the condyle, but takes its origin from the intermuscular septum between the extensor carpi ulnaris and the extensor communis digitorum, as though this muscle also was in process of descending from its condylar to some lower attachment. The so-called ganglion on the posterior interosseous nerve is only a thickening of its perineurium.