PLATE LII, THE LARYNX. NATURAL SIZE. In this plate are represented three dissections of the larynx. Fig. I. shows a posterior view with the mucous membrane removed, to show the nerves and muscles ; Fig. II. a side view, with the posterior part of the right side of the thyroid removed; and Fig. III. a deeper view of the same, to show the deep portion of the thyro-arytenoid muscle and its connection with the true vocal cords. Morphology of the Vocal Cords.1—Mr. Sutton has pointed out that the false vocal cords of man are connected in front with the inner surface of the thyroid cartilage, and also the base of the epiglottis; embedded in their substance are the cuneiform cartilages* and on tracing the false cords backwards to their attachment to the arytenoids, accessory slips will be found connecting them with the cornicula laryngis. In the porpoise there is an azygous epiglottis and an enormously prolonged cornicula laryngis which, though separate, are bound together by dense fibrous tissue. From the base of the epiglottis a process of cartilage projects which is joined by fibrous tissue with a style-like process of cartilage projecting from the cornicula laryngis; and in this fibrous tissue are nodules of cartilage. In the ant-eater there is a well-developed epiglottis, and directly continuous with its body is a process of cartilage which, passing backwards, becomes continuous with that overtopping the arytenoids ; this body causes a projection in the mucous membrane and forms the false vocal cord. In the horse there is a thick bar of cartilage continuous with the base of the epiglottis projecting backwards into the false vocal cords. Thus, in man the false vocal cords with the cuneiform cartilages are the degenerate representatives of the piece of cartilage by means of which the cornicula laryngis and the epiglottis were originally united, and, with the cornicula, must be regarded as vestigial structures. The True Cords may be considered as the tendinous part of the thyro-arytenoid muscle, which is intimately connected with it. The Hyo-epiglottic Ligament.—In the horse a muscle replaces this ligament, which has occasionally even in man been seen to be muscular. It attains its greatest development in those animals with an intra-narial epiglottis. 1 Bland Sutton, Journal of Anat. and Phys. vol. xxiii. p. 256.