118 Spinal Cord. Hfedoblong. rhomboid. DecussaHo Pgramides Med. spin, int N.cerv. 5-6. Med- spin. inf. N. dors. 5-6. Med. spin. 'int. JV. lunfb. 3-4.. Med. spin. inf. N. coccyg. m 462. Transverse Sections of the Medulla Oblongata and Spinal Cord. After Fr. Arnold. The spinal cord is not uniformly cylindrical, but marked by two enlargements, an upper or cervical, and a lower or lumbar, corres- ponding to the points of exit of the largest nerves. It is divided into two symmetrical halves, each of which consists of an external white cortex, and an internal grey jiucleus; the fissures which so divide it, are on the anterior surface, along the middle line, the anterior median fissure, Sulcus longitudinalis anterior, and on the posterior surface, the posterior median fissure, Sulcus longitudinalis posterior; the anterior median fissure is marked along the whole length of the cord, the posterior, well marked only at the cervical portion and Corns terminalis. The two parts of the central grey nucleus are united by the middle grey commissure, in front of it the two halves of the external white substance by the anterior white commissure; between these two commissures the small central canal of the spinal cord extends through the whole length of the cord. The relation of the grey nucleus to the white cortex varies in different situations; the shape of the former corresponds in general to an x with narrower posterior cornua and broader anterior cornua; the white matter increases in quantity from below upwards. The grey nucleus consists principally of multi- polar ganglion cells; the white matter chiefly of longitudinal nerve fibres, with the transverse fibres of the roots of the spinal nerves. The longitudinal fibres form six columns, separated by shallow fissures ; they are: Two anterior columns, on both sides of the anterior median fissure ; Two lateral columns, between the origins of the anterior and posterior roots of the spinal nerves; Two posterior columns, on both sides of the posterior median fissure; Opposite the uppermost cervical vertebrae, the pyramidal columns, which take part in the decussation, are found between the anterior columns; between the piosterior columns are found the Funiculi graciles, which form with the cuneate funiculi the restiform bodies.