Cerebellum. 110 451. The Cerebellum, view from below. Natural size. At the base of the brain (Fig. 450) there are further seen: c) The Tuber cinereum and the Infundibulum. The Tuber cinereum is situated behind the chiasma and forms part of the floor of the third ventricle. From the middle of its under surface a hollow conical process, the Infundibuhim, is continued downwards and forwards. d) The pituitary body or Hypophysis cerebri, situated in the Sella turcica. It is a small vascular mass, consisting of an anterior and a posterior lobe, which are separated from one another by a fibrous lamina. e) The Corpora albicantia or inammillaria s. Globuli mcdullares, two small, round, white masses, each about the size of a pea. f) The posterior perforated space, Substantia perforata posterior, placed in the angle between both Crura cerebri, composed of grey matter, is continued anteriorly into the Tuber cinereum. g) The Crura cerebri s. Pedunculi cerebri, two thick, cylindrical bundles of white matter, which emerge from the anterior border of the pons, and diverge as they pass forwards and outwards to enter the under part of either hemisphere. In a transverse section, each Crus cerebri is seen to consist of a lower, flat bundle of fibres, the proper Pedunculus s. Caudex, which is hollowed out for the upper, larger bundle, the Tegmentum caudicis; between both is a mass of dark grey matter, the Substantia nigra pedunculi. The two hemispheres of the cerebellum are connected with each other by the Pons Varolii, and behind the pons, between the two hemi- spheres of the cerebellum is the Medulla oblongata. The Pons Varolii or Tuber annulare presents an under (anterior) and an upper (posterior) surface, an anterior and a posterior border. On the middle of its under surface is seen a longitudinal groove, Sulcus basilaris, which lodges the basilar artery. At the anterior border the Crura cerebri'diverge; at the sides are the middle peduncles of the cerebellum or Processus ccrcbelli ad pontem, which connect the pons with the hemi- spheres of the cerebellum. The posterior border of the pons is in relation with the Medulla oblongata.