Organ of Hearing. 237 Otoliths *■ *oust! 325. The Membranous Labyrinth. (Diagrammatic.) The membranous laby- rinth consists of two mem- branous sacs, the Sacculus sphaeri- cus or saccule (lying in the Eeces- sus hemisphaericus vestibvli) and the Sacculus cllipticus or utricle (lying- in the Recessus hemiellipticus), in which latter, the m e m b r a nous semicircular canals, cor- responding to the bony, and also containing ampullae, open. Bet- ween the sacs, which do not com- municate with each other, and the inner surface of the bony labyrinth lined by a thin periosteal mem- brane, is a fluid, the Ptrilyrrvpha; the membranous semicircular ca- nals do not entirely fill out the bony, in which they are lodged, but lie only on the convex side of the latter. The sacs and mem- branous semicircular ca- nals also contain a fluid, the Eiidolymplia. Corresponding to the three Maculae cribrosae and the Pyramis vestibvii (places of entrance of the N. acusticus) are rounded bodies consisting of minute crystal- line grains of carbonate of lime (otoliths). The Nervus vestibuli pas- ses through the foramina of the three Maculae cribrosae, and its fibres are distributed to the wall of the membranous labyrinth, not to its cavity. The internal auditory meatus, commencing at the posterior surface of the petrous portion of the temporal bone, ends by a blind pouch, being- separated from the vestibule by a thin bony plate. The blind pouch is divided by a bony ridge into an upper and a lower fossa. The upper has two depressions, the anterior leading to the Canalis Fallopiae, the posterior to the Macula cribrosa superior; the lower has the Tractus spiralis foraminulentus, behind this the openings to the Macula cribrosa media and a larger opening to the Macula cribrosa inferior. Heitzmann, Atlas. I. 31 Openings tot. Mosul, criiros super. Can. Fallop. ^0. Ampulla - orifice o.t. Can semicirc. Ampulla - orifice o.t. Can. semieirc. \ 1*..\N —extern. Tract .spiral, jbraminul. 326, The End of the Inter- nal Auditory Meatus. Magn. = 3.