Aorta. 185 A.coronar. \ ) \^ dextra. rA.coronar.sin,. V.dextra Valu.post The aorta, the main trunk of the arterial system, arises from the upper part of the left ven- tricle of the heart, with an en- largement, the Bidbus Aortac. It is divided into the arch of the aorta, thoracic aorta and abdominal aorta. The arch of the aorta extends from the origin of the vessel to the lower border of the body of the fourth dorsal vertebra ; it at first ascends obliquely upwards and to the right side as ascending aorta, then passes transversely from right to left, and from before back- wards as transverse aorta, and then descends upon the left side of the body of the fourth dorsal vertebra, being there called descending aorta. The two coronary arte- ries arise from the ascending por- tion of the arch of the aorta, in the upper parts of two of the sinuses of Valsalva, on a level with the margins of the semilunar valves. The left, Arteria coronaria sinistra, is usually larger than the right; it passes behind and then to the left side of the pulmonary artery and divides into two branches; of these one passes transversely outwards in the left auriculo-ventricular groove and anastomoses with the superior branch of the right coronary, the other descends to the apex of the heart, where it anastomoses with the descen- ding branch of the right coronary. The right, Arteria coronaria dextra, passes forwards to the right side in the right auriculo-ventricular groove, curves backwards and divides into two branches, one of which descends c. along the posterior interventricular furrow to the apex of the heart. From the transverse portion of the arch of the aorta (often simply called Amis Aortae) three large vessels arise; they are: the innominate artery, Art. anonyma, the left common caro- t i d, Carotis sinistra, and the left subclavian, Art. subclavia sinistra. The innominate artery passes obliquely upwards and to the right in front of the trachea, and divides behind the right sterno-clavicular articulation into the right subclavian and right common carotid arteries. The left carotid and left subclavian arteries are therefore longer and placed more deeply in the thorax, than 527. Diagram of the Pri- mary Brandies of the Arch of the Aorta. the right.