435. Diagram of the Membranes of the Spinal Cord. Transverse Section. Magn. = 2. The Dura mater of the cord, Pars spinalis durae matris, con- tinuous with that which invests the brain, extends, below, as far as the top of the sacrum; beyond this point it is impervious, being continued, in the form of a slender cord, to the back of the coccyx, where it blends with the periosteum. It is not adherent to the bones of the spinal canal, which have an independent periosteum, and the intervening space is occupied by a plexus of veins, Plexus venosi spindles. The Dura mater of the cord accompanies each of the spinal nerves into its vertebral foramen, and sends off from its inner surface to each side of the cord, from 20—23 slen- der processes in the form of denticuli, which serve to support the cord, and are collectively called the Ligamentum denticulatum. The Arachnoidca is a delicate membrane, situated between the dura mater externally and pia mater internally. The space between the dura mater and arachnoid is called subdural space or Cavum arachnoideale; that between the arachnoid and pia mater, sub-arach- noid space, Cavum subarachnoidealc; the latter contains a considerable quantity of fluid, the cerebro-spinal fluid, but the former also contains some fluid. The arachnoid passes over the various eminences and depressions on the cerebrum and cerebellum, without dipping down into the sulci and smaller grooves. It invests the brain (Arachnoidea cerebralis) and spinal cord (Arachnoidea spinalis) much less closely than the pia mater. From the posterior median fissure, Sulcus longitudinalis posterior, of the cord, a septum passes to the inner surface of the Arach- noidea, which is only complete in the cervical region. Upon the external sur- face of the dura mater, in the vicinity of the longitudinal sinus, the Oranula (wrongly Glandidae) Pacchioni lie; they are also found in other situations. The Pia mater, the innermost membrane, dips down into all the sulci of the brain and into the fissures of the cord, and is intimately adherent to their surfaces. It is a highly vascular membrane; at the transverse fissure of the cerebrum it is invaginated into the lateral ventricles and over the third ventricle, and there forms the Velum interposituru or Tela choroidca superior; it is also prolonged over the posterior wall of the fourth ventricle, where it forms the Tela choroidea inferior and choroid plexuses of that ventricle. At the point where the cord terminates, the Pia mater is con- tinued down as a long, slender filament, Filum terminate.