Cerebral Convolutions. 96 436, Left Hemisphere, from the outside. After Eberstaller. The brain, Encephalon, is divided into four principal parts, the cerebrum, cerebellum, Pons Varolii and Medulla oblongata. The cerebrum is divided into two hemispheres, right and left. Each hemi- sphere has a dorsal or outer, convex surface, in contact with the vault of the cranium, an inner, flat surface, which forms one side of the longi- tudinal fissure, and an irregular under surface, in which is a deep cleft, the fissure of Sylvius. The anterior extremity is called frontal pole, the posterior, occipital pole. The entire surface of the hemispheres presents a number of convoluted emi- nences, the convolutions or Gyri, separated from each other by fissures or Sulci. At certain places, several, otherwise separate sulci may blend together, and this is the chief cause for the great variety in the convolutions found in different brains; if this is the case, a concealed convolution will always be found beneath the union of the fissures; the places where these deep gyri are most frequent, are marked by points in the diagram. The deepest of all the fissures is the Fissure of Sylvius, Fissura Sylvii; it commences as Fossa Sylvii, at the under surface of the brain, turns outwards and backwards (Ramus posterior fissurae Sylvii) and ends by divi- ding into a Ramus ascendens and a short Ramus descendens. At the place where it curves around, the Ramus anterior ascendens branches off, often also a Ramus anterior horizontalis. The fissure of Sylvius divides the frontal lobe and partly also the parietal lobe from the temporal lobe; the central lobe or island of Reil, Insula Reilii, lies deeply within its commencement, being rarely visible except when the lips of the fissure are separated; the parts of the hemi- sphere covering it, are called Operculum. The central fissure or fissure of Rolando, Sidcus centralis s. Rolandi, is situated about the middle of the outer surface of the hemisphere; it commences near the lougitudinal fissure and runs downwards and forwards to terminate a little above the horizontal limb of the fissure of Sylvius; the parallel convolutions which bound it, are named the ascending frontal, or Gyrus centralis anterior and the ascending parietal, or Gyrus centralis posterior. That portion of the brain, situated in front of the fissure of Rolando, and above and in front of the fissure of Sylvius is called the frontal lobe, Lohus frontalis.