v Arteria radialis et ulnaris. 209 M. unuscul.' At the bend of the elbow the b r a- chial artery lies upon the M. brachialis antieus s. interims, to the inner side of the tendon of the M. biceps, and to the outer side of the M. pronator radii teres. Here it gives off the Art. plicae cubiti superficialis and divides below the bend of the elbow into the radial and ulnar arteries. a) The radial artery, Art. radia- lis, passes along the radial side of the fore- arm to the wrist; in the upper half of the forearm it lies between M. supinator longus and M. pronator radii teres, in the lower half between M. supinator longus and M. flexor carpi radialis. At the wrist it passes between the styloid process of the radius and the scaphoid to the back of the hand, where it is covered by the tendons of the M. extensor ossis mcta- carpii pollicis and M. extensor primi inter- nodii pollicis; it then passes into the palm of the baud between the bases of the metacarpal bones of the thumb and index finger, and arches across the palm to the base of the metacarpal bone of the little finger, where it inosculates with the deep branch of the ulnar artery, forming the deep palmar arch, Arcus volaris pro- fundus. Its branches are: The radial recurrent, which anastomoses with the anterior terminal branch of the superior profunda artery; The muscular branches to the neighbouring muscles; The. superficialis volae, to the muscles of the ball of the thumb; it usually helps to form the superficial palmar arch. At the back of the hand the radial artery gives off (see Fig. 559): The posterior or dorso-carpal branch, Ramus carpi dorsalis, which, with the branches of the external interosseous artery helps to form the Bete carpi dorsale (posterior carpal arch); The first dorsal interosseous artery, Art. intcrossea dor salis prima, which supplies both sides of the thumb and the radial side of the index finger. Having returned to the palm of the hand, the radial artery gives off the Art. digitalis volaris communis, from which the Art. volaris indicis radialis arises, and which finally divides into two Arteriae volares pollicis. I flexor, die*it! IIf /Ii. TTlUSCul. Tenia _ H. sup. long. M. volar, sugerf.' Tendo flex.carp.uln. -R. dorsal. 554. Course and Ramifi- cation of the Arteries of the Forearm.