Bones of the Face. 28 Proc. u rbitalis Art.m. t other Palate i. 32. Left Palate Bone, Os palatinum, from the inside. Fars liorizoutaJts 33. Left Palate Bone, Os palatinum, from behind. The palate bone consists of 2 portions or plates placed at right angles to each other, the perpendicular plate, Pars perpendicular is, and the horizontal plate, Pars liorizontalis. The perpendicular plate shows on its inner surface 2 horizontal crests: the lower, the inferior turbinated crest, Crista turimalis, for articulation with the inferior turbinated bone; the upper, the superior turbinated crest, Crista ethmoidalis, for the Concha ethmoidalis inferior (middle turbinated bone). The p o s t e r i o r border shows the Sulcus pteri/go-pala- tinus, which forms with the similar sulcus on the pterygoid process of the sphenoid bone and the groove at the posterior angle of the body of the superior maxilla the pterygo-palatine canal, Canalis pterygo-palatinus. The superior border has two processes, separated by an intervening notch, the Incisura spheno-palatina: the anterior process is the orbital pro- cess, Processus orbitalis (often containing some Cellula.e pahttinae); the posterior sphenoidal process, Processus sphenoidalis, when articulated with the sphenoid bone, forms the groove on the inferior surface of the body of the sjjhenoid into a canal, the Canalis splicno-palatiuus. The horizontal plate forms the back part of the hard palate, the inner border (articulated with the horizontal plate of the other palate bone) the Crista nasalis, which is extended posteriorly into the posterior nasal spine, Spina nasalis posterior. At the place where the perpendicular and horizontal plates blend, is the pterygoid or pyramidal process, Processus pyramidalis, which is inserted into the pterygoid notch of the sphenoid bone. The pterygo-palatine canal, formed together with the sphenoid and superior maxillary bones, divides inferiorly into 3 canals, which open into the 3 posterior palatine foramina in the hard palate. The palate hone articulates with G hones: 2 of the cranium, the sphenoid and ethmoid, and 4 of the face, the superior maxillary, the inferior turbinated, vomer and opposite palate bones.