97 Cerebral Convolutions. 437. Cerebrum, from above. After Eb erstaller. The anterior central or ascending frontal convolution is limited in front by the transverse frontal fissure or Sulcus praecentralis, which is usually divided into two parts, the S. praecentralis superior and inferior. The portion of the frontal surface anterior to this convolution is occupied by three gyri, the superior, middle and inferior frontal convolutions, or Cfyri frontalis I, II and III; the fissures separating them are the superior and inferior frontal, S. frontalis superior and inferior. The middle frontal convolution is the broadest; it is divided anteriorly by the S. frontalis medius into two portions. At the Gyrus frontalis inferior a Pars ascendens s. operculavis, a Pars triangularis and a Pars orbitalis are distinguished. The posterior central or ascending parietal convolution is limited posteriorly by the intra-parietal fissure or <S'. retrocentralis ; from it, two convolutions, the superior and inferior parietal lobules, Lobulus parietalis superior and inferior, run backwards; the sulcus separating them is the *S'. interparietals. The fissures of the temporal lobe divide the inferior parietal lobule into three portions: G. supraniarginalis, G. angularis and G. parietalis posterior. About midway between the posterior extremity of the brain and the fissure of Rolando is the deep parieto-occipital fissure, Fissura parieto-occipitalis; it is only seen to a slight extent on the outer surface, the greater part of it being on the internal surface of the hemisphere; a little behind it, the S. inter- parietal'^ ends with a transverse portion: S. occipitalis anterior s. perpendicidaris externus. That portion of the external surface, which is bounded in front by the sulcus of Rolando and behind by the parieto-occipital fissure and the S. occipi- talis anterior, is called parietal lobe, Lobus parietalis; it comprises the ascending parietal convolution, the superior and the inferior parietal lobules.