Cerebral Convolutions. 98 438. Right Hemisphere, from the inside. After Eberstaller. The occipital lobe, Lohus occipitalis, is situated at the posterior extremity of the brain; it is bounded in front by the *S. occipitalis anterior, and below by the S. occipitalis lateralis; the convolutions separating this lobe from the parietal lobe, have been named Plis de passage sup. and inf. (Fig. 436). The temporal or teinporo-splicnoidal lobe, Lobus temporalis, is bounded in front and above by the fissure of Sylvius. Three transverse sulci, whose posterior ends are turned upwards (Pars ascendens), divide it into three convolutions. The uppermost of these sulci is always the best developed; it is called the first or superior temporal (temporo-sphenoidal) or parallel sulcus, Sulcus temporalis primus s. parallelus; the second or middle temporal sulcus, S. temporalis secundus, is generally interrupted by a vertical gyrus; the third or inferior, S. temporalis tertius, lies on the under surface of the lobe. Between them, the first, second and third temporal convolutions, Gyrus temporalis I. s. superior, G. temporalis II. s. medius, G. temporalis III. s. inferior, lie. Posteriorly, the I. and II. are continuous with the inferior parietal lobule, the III. with the inferior occipital convolution (Fig. 436 and 437). On the internal surface of the hemisphere the Gyrus fornicatus or con- volution of the Corpus callosum is seen; it turns around the anterior extre- mity of the Corpus callosum, and is interrupted anteriorly by the Fossa Sylvii; its lower half is the Gyrus hippocampi or uncinate convolution, also called Subiculum cornu Ammonis, which ends with the uncus. Above the G. hippocampi is the Fissura hippocamp>i; concealed in it are the gray Fascia dentata Tarini and the white Fimbria. Superiorly, the Gyrus fornicatus is bounded by the calloso- marginal sulcus, which commences somewhat below the Genu corporis callosi and ends a short distance behind the upper extremity of the sulcus of Eolaudo. Somewhat behind and below the Splenium corporis callosi a deep fissure, which posteriorly divides into two rami, commences in the G. fornicatus; one ramus extends upwards and is called parieto-occipital fissure, Fissura parieto-occipitalis s. perpendicularis interna; the other extending pretty horizontally backwards, is called calcarine fissure, Fissura calcarina, and ends at the pole in the S. extremus.