Male Organs of Generation. 70 V. dors. peni Corp. A A. dors, pen t's Septum pen is Corp. cavern, uret/i r. 409. Transverse Section of the Penis in the Distended State. The muscular tissue constitutes the proper stroma of the prostate; it is arranged in several layers, between which, strong muscular bands, decussating freely, form meshes in which the glandular substance of the organ is imbedded; the excretory ducts of the glands open on both sides of the Caput gaUinaginis. Cowper's glands (see Fig. 410) are compound racemose glands, about the size of peas; they lie behind the bulb of the urethra at the lower wall of the membranous portion, surrounded by the fibres of the M. transversus perinei profundus. Their excretory ducts pass obliquely for- wards and open at the bulbous portion of the urethra (see Fig. 403)- The male organ, Penis, is composed of. erectile tissue, enclosed in three cylindrical fibrous compartments; of these, two, the Corpora cavernosa penis, form the principal part of the organ, while the third, Corpus cavernosum urethrae or Corpus spongiosum encloses the urethra. The Corpora cavernosa penis are cylindrical, erectile bodies, intimately connected along the median line for their anterior three-fourths, their posterior fourth being separated to form the two Crura penis, by which the penis is connected to the rami of the pubes; each crus presents a slight enlargement, the bulb of the Corpus cavernosum. The upper surface of the united cavernous bodies is marked by a slight groove containing the single Vena dorsalis and the two Arteriae dor-sales penis; the under surface presents a longitudinal groove, in which is lodged the Coipus spongiosum. Each Corpus cavernosum is enclosed in the fibrous Tunica albu- ginea, which sends off numerous fibrous bands, Trabecidae; these cross the cavity in all directions, subdividing it into a multitude of interstices. The fibrous septum between the Corpora cavernosa is incomplete in front, exhibiting numerous clefts. The erectile tissue consists of a venous plexus lodged in the interspaces between the trabecular The arteries of the Corpora cavernosa are the cavernous branches of the internal pudic (Art. profundac penis), and branches from the dorsal artery of the penis. Within the cavernous tissue, the numerous arterial branches are supported by the trabeculae, and terminate in branches of capillary minuteness which open into the intertrabccular spaces.