lillUNNKu’S AND PEVER’S GLANDS. .580 The J’haryngeal (jlands are situated in considerable numbers beneatli the mucous membrane of the pharynx, particularly around the pos- terior nares. Two of these glands, of larger size than the rest, and lobulated in structure, occupy the margin of the opening of the Eusta- chian tube. The Qisopliageal glands are small lobulated bodies, situated in the sub-mucous tissue, and opening upon the surface of the cesophagus by a long excretory duct, which passes obliquely through the mucous membrane. The Gastric follicles are long tubular follicular glands, situated perpendicularly side by side in every part of the mucous membrane of the stomach. At their terminations they are dilated into small lateral pouches, which give them a clustered appearance. This character is more clearly exhibited at the pyloric than at the cardiac end of the stomach. They are intended, very probably, for the secretion of the gastric fluid. The Duodenal, or Brunner's* glands, are small flattened granular bodies, compared collectively by Von Brunn to a second pancreas. They resemble in structure the small salivary glands, so abundant beneath the mucous membrane of the mouth and lips ; and, like them, they open upon the surface by minute excretory ducts. They are limited to the duodenum. The Solitary glands are of two kinds, those of the small and those of the large intestine. The former are small circular patches, surrounded by a zone or wreath of simple follicles. When opened, they are seen to consist of a small flattened saccular cavity, containing a mucous secretion, but having no excretory duct. They are chiefly found in the lower part of the ileum. The solitary glands of the large intestine are most abundant in the caecum and appendix caeci; thej’’ are small circular prominences, flattened upon the surface, and perforated in the centre by a minute excretory opening. The Aggregate, or Beyer's \ glands, are situated near the lower end of the ileum, and occupy that portion of the intestine which is opposite the attachment of the mesentery. To the naked ejm they present the appearance of oval disks, covered with small irregular fissures; but with the aid of the microscope they are seen to be composed of numerous small circular patches, surrounded by simple follicles, like the solitary glands of the small intestine. Each patch corresponds with a flattened and closed sac, situated beneath the membrane, but having no excretorj^ opening, and the interspace between the patches is occupied by flattened villi. The Simple follicles, or follicles of Lieberkiihn, are small pouches of the mucous layer, dispersed in immense numbers over every part of the mucous membrane. * John Conrad von Bnmn: “ Glandulas Duodeni seu Pancreas Secundarium,” 1715. t John Conrad Peyer, an anatomist of Schaffhausen, in Switzerland. His essay, “De Glandulis Intestinorum,” was published in 1677.