VEINS OF THE DIPLOE. 36y siipra-orbital, which joins the frontal vein ; the dorsal veins of the nose which terminate in the nasal arch; the ophthalmic, which communi- cates with the angular vein ; the palpebral and nasal, which open into the anguhar vein ; a considerable trunk, the alveolar, which returns the blood from the spheno-maxillary fossa, from the infra-orbital, pala- tine, vidian, and splieno-palatine veins, and joins the facial beneath the zygomatic process of the superior maxillary bone, and the veins * corresponding with the branches of the facial artery. The Internal maxillary vein receives the branches from the zygo- matic and pterygoid fossre ; these are so numerous and communicate so freely as to constitute a pterygoid plexus. Passing backwards behind the neck of the lower jaw, the internal maxillary joins with the tem- poral vein, and the common trunk resulting from this union constitutes the temporo-7naxillary vein. The Temporal vein commences on the vertex of the head by a plexi- form network which is continuous with the frontal, the temporal, auricular, and occipital veins. The ramifications of this plexus form an anterior and a posterior branch which unite immediately above the zygoma ; the trunk is here joined by another large vein, the middle temporal, which collects the blood from the temporal muscle, and around the outer segment of the orbit, and pierces the temporal fascia near the root of the zygoma. The temporal vein then descends between the meatus auditorius extemus and the condyle of the lower jaw, and unites with the internal maxillary vein, to form the temporo-maxillary. The Temporo-maxillary vein formed by the union of the temporal and internal maxillary, passes do^vnwards in the substance of the parotid gland to its lower border, where it becomes the external jugular vein. It receives in its course the anterior auricular, masse- teric, transverse facial, and parotid veins, and near its termination is joined by the posterior auricular vein. The Posterior auricular vein communicates with the plexus upon the vertex of the head, and descends behind the ear to the temporo- maxillary vein, immediately before that vessel merges in the external jugular. It receives in its course the veins from the external ear and the stylo-mastoid vein. The Occipital vein commencing posteriorly in the plexus of the vertex of the head, follows the direction of the occipital artery, and passing deeply beneath the muscles of the back part of the neck, terminates in the internal jugular vein. This vein communicates with the lateral nnus by means of a large branch which passes through the mastoid foramen, the mastoid vein. VEINS OF THE DIPLOE. The diploe of the bones of the head is furnished in the adult with ' rregular sinuses, which are formed by a continuation of the internal ■oat of the veins into the osseous canals in which they are lodged. At B B