197 LATISSIiMUS DORSI. peziuni, or diamond-shaped quadrangle, on the posterior part of the shoulders : hence the muscle was formerly named cucullaris (cucullus, a monk’s cowl). The cervical and upper part of the dorsal portion of the muscle is tendinous at its origin, and forms, with the muscle of the opposite side, a kind of tendinous ellipse. Relations.—By its superficial surface with the integument and superficial fascia, to which it is closely adherent by its cervical por- tion, loosely by its dorsal portion. By its deep surface, from above dowmwards, with the complexus, splenius, levator anguli scapulae, supra-spinatus, a small portion of the serratus posticus superior, rhom- boideus minor, rhomboideus major, intervertebral aponeurosis which separates it from the erector spinas, and with the latissimus dorsi. The anterior border of the ceiudcal portion of this muscle forms the poste- rior boundary of the posterior triangle of the neck. The clavicular insertion of the muscle sometimes advances to the middle of the cla- vicle, or as far as the outer border of the sterno-mastoid, and occa- sionally it has been seen to overlap the latter. This is a point of much importance to be borne in mind in the operation for ligature of the subclavian artery. The spinal accessory nerve passes beneath the anterior border, near the clavicle, previously to its distribution to the muscle. The ligamentum nuclice is a thin areolo-fibrous layer extended from the tubercle and spine of the occipital bone, to the spinous process of the seventh cervical vertebra, where it is continuous with the supra- spinous ligament. It is connected with the spinous processes of the rest of the cervical vertebrje, with the exception of the atlas, by means of a small fibrous slip which is sent oflF by each. It is the analogue of an important elastic ligament in animals. The Lati.ssi-mu.s Dor.si muscle covers the whole of the lower part of the back and loins. It arises from the spinous processes of the six inferior dorsal vertebrae, from all the lumbar and sacral spinous pro- cesses, from the posterior third of the crest of the ilium, and from the three lower ribs; the latter origin takes place by muscular slips, which indigitate with the external oblique muscle of the abdomen. The fibres from this extensive origin converge as they ascend, and cross the inferior angle of the scapula ; they then curve around the lower bor- der of the teres major muscle, and terminate in a short quadrilateral tendon,* which lies in front of the tendon of the teres, and is inseHed into the bicipital groove. A synovial bursa is interposed between the muscle and the lower angle of the scapula, and another between its tendon .and that of the teres major. The muscle frequently receives a small fasciculus from the sc.apula as it crosses its inferior angle. Relations. — By its superficial surface with the integument and superficial fascia ; the latter is ver^’’ dense and fibrous in the lumbar region ; and with the trapezius. By its deep surface, from below up- * A small muscular fasciculus from the pectoralis major is sometimes found connected with ttiis tendon.