347 GLUTEAL ARTERY. latcs with the ischiatic arterj% In its course backwards it anastomoses with the internal circumflex, and sends a branch througli th§ notch in the acetabidum to the hip-joint. Within the pelvis the obturator arterj' gives off a branch to the iliacus muscle, and a small ramuscule which inosculates with the epigastric arter\\ The Lateral sacral arteries are generally two in number on each side ; superior and inferior. The superior passes inwards to the flrst sacral foramen, and is distributed to the contents of the spinal canal, from which it escapes by the posterior sacral foramen, and sup- plies the integiunent on the dorsum of the sacrum. The inferior passes down by the side of the anterior sacral foramina to the coccyx ; it first pierces and then rests upon the origin of the pyriformis, and sends branches into the sacral canal to supply the sacral nerves. Both arteries inosculate with each other and with the sacra media. The Gluteal artery is the continuation of the posterior tnink of the internal iliac: it passes backwards between the lumbo-sacral and first lumbar nerve through the upper part of the great sacro*- ischiatic foramen and above the pyriformis muscle, and divides into three branches, superficial, deep superior, and deep inferior. The Superficial hranch is directed forwards, between the gluteus maximus and medius, and divides into numerous branches, which are distributed to the upper part of the gluteus maximus and to the inte- gument of the gluteal region. The Deep superior branch passes along the superior curved line of the ilium, between the gluteus medius and minimus to the anterior superior spinous process, where it inosculates with the superficial cir- cumflexa ilii and external circumflex artery. There are frequently two arteries which follow this course. The Deep inferior branches are several large arteries which cross the gluteus minimus obliquely to the trochanter major, where they inosculate with branches of the external circumflex artery, and send branches through the gluteus minimus to supply the capsule of the lip-joint. Varieties in the Branches of the internal iliac.—The most important )f the varieties occurring among these branches is the origin of the lorsal arterj' of the penis from the internal iliac or ischiatic. The •urter}' in this case passes forwards by the side of the prostate gland, nd through the upper part of the deep perineal fascia. It wo^d be mdangered in the operation of lithotomy. The dorsal artery of the >enis is sometimes derived from the obturator, and sometimes from ne of the external pudic arteries. The artery of the bulb, in its lormal course, passes almost transversely inwards to the corpus pongioBum. Occasionally, however, it is so oblique in its direction as 0 render its division in lithotomy unavoidable. The obturator artery lay be very small or altogether wanting, its place being supplied by a ranch from the external iliac or epigastric.