92 ACETABULUM.—OBTURATOR FORAMEN. a little less than two-fifths being formed by the ilium, a little more than two-fifths by the ischium, and the remaining fifth by the pubes. It is bounded by a deep rim or lip, which is broad and strong above, where most resistance is required, and marked in front by a deep notch, which is arched over in the fresh subject by a strong ligament, and transmits the nutrient vessels into the joint. At the bottom of the cup, and communicating with the notch, is a deep and circular pit (fundus acetabuli), which lodges a mass of fat, and gives attachment to the broad extremity of the ligamentum teres. The obturator or thyroid foramen is a large oval interval between the ischium and pubes, bounded by a narrow rough margin, to which a ligamentous membrane is attached. The upper part of the foramen is increased in depth by the groove in the under surface of the os pubis, which lodges the obturator vessels and nerve. Development.—By eight centres: three principal, one for the ilium, one for the ischium, and one for the pubes ; and five secondary, one, the Y shaped piece for the interval between the primitive pieces in the acetabulum, one for the crest of the ilium, one (not constant) for the anterior and inferior spinous process of the ilium, one for the tuberosity of the ischium, and one (not constant) for the angle of the os pubis. Ossification commences in the primitive pieces, im- mediately after that in the vertebrae, firstly in the ilium, then in the ischium, and lastly in the pubes ; the first ossific deposits being situated near the future acetabiilum. At birth, the acetabulum, the crest of the ilium, and the ramus of the pubes and ischium, are carti- laginous. The secondary centres appear at puberty, and the entire bone is not completed until the twenty-fifth year. Articulations.—With three bonesj sacrum, opposite innominatum, and femur. Attachment of Muscles and Ligaments.—To thirty-five muscles: to the ilium thirteen ; by the outer lip of the crest, to the obhquus ex- ternus for two-thirds, and to the latissimus dorsi for one-third its length, and to the tensor vaginae femoris by its anterior fomrth; by the middle of the crest, to the internal oblique for three-fourths its length, by the remaining fourth to the erector spin® ; by the internal lip, to the transversalis for three-fourths, and to the quadratus lumborum by the posterior part of its middle third. By the external surface, to the gluteus medius, minimus, and maximus, and to one head of the rectus; by the internal surface to the iliacus ; and by the anterior border to the sartorius, and the other head of the rectus. To the ischium sixteen; by its external surface, the adductor magnus and obturator externus ; by the internal surface, the obturator intemus and levator ani; by the spine, the gemellus superior, levator ani, coccygeus, and lesser sacro-ischiatic ligament ; by the tuberosity, the biceps, semi- tendinosus, semi-membranosus, gemellus inferior, quadratus femoris, erector penis, transversus perinei, and great sacro-ischiatic ligament; and by the ramus, the gracilis, accelerator urinae, and compressor urethrae. To the os pubis fifteen: by its upper border, the obliquus