3G8 VEINS OF THE HEAD AND NECK. bi’cil veins : they are also absent in the large trunks, as in the venae cavae, venae azygos, innominatae, and iliac veins. Sinuses are venous channels, excavated in the structure of an org:in, and lined by the internal coat of the veins ; of this structure are the sinuses of the dura mater, whose external covering is the fibrous tissue of the membrane, and the internal, the serous layer of the veins. The external investment of the sinuses of the uterus is the tissue of that organ ; and that of the bones, the lining membrane of the cells and canals. Veins, like arteries, are supplied with nutritious vessels, the vasa vasorum ; and it is to be presumed that nervous filaments are distri- | buted in their coats. j I shall describe the veins according to the primary division of the i body ; taking first, those of the head and neck ; next, those of the I upper extremity ; then, those of the lower extremity ; and lastly, the j veins of the trunk. : VEINS OF THE HEAD AND NECK. I The veins of the head and neck may be arranged into three groups, viz. 1. Veins of the exterior of the head. 2. Veins of the diploe and interior of the cranium. 3. Veins of the neck. The veins of the exterior of the head are the— Facial, Internal maxillary. Temporal, Temporo-maxillary, Posterior auricular. Occipital. The Facial vein commences on the anterior part of the skuU in a venous plexus, fomed by the communications of the branches of the temporal, and descends along the middle line of the forehead, under the name of frontal vein, to the root of the nose, where it is connected with its fellow of the opposite side by a communicating trunk which constitutes the nasal arch. There are usually two frontal veins, which communicate by a transverse inosculation ; but sometimes the vein is single and bifurcates at the root of the nose, into the two an- gular veins. From the nasal arch, the frontal is continued downwards by the side of the root of the nose, under the name of the angular vein ; it then passes beneath the zygomatic muscles and becomes the facial vein, and descends along the anterior border of the masseter muscle, crossing the body of the lower jaw, by the side of the facial artery, to the submaxillary gland, and fi’om thence to the internal jugular vein in which it terminates. The branches which the facial vein receives in its course are, the