HYPOGLOSSAL NERVE. 457 nerves, to the foramen lacerum posterius. It communicates in its course with the posterior root of the first cervical nerve, and entering the foramen lacerum becomes applied against the posterior aspect of the ganglion jugulare of the pneumogastric, being contained in the same sheiith of dura mater. In the jugular fossa it divides into two branches; the smaller joins the pneumogastric immediately below the jugular ganglion, and contributes to the formation of the pharyngeal nerve; the larger or true continuation of the nerve passes backwards behind the internal jugular vein, and descends obliquely to the upper part of the sterno-mastoid muscle. It pierces the sterno-mastoid, and then passes obliquely across the neck, communicating with the second, third, and fourth cervical nerves, and is distributed to the trapezius. The spinal accessory sends numerous twigs to the sterno-mastoid in its passage through that muscle, and in the trapezius the nervous filaments may be traced downw.irds to its lower border. The pneumogastric and spinal accessory nerves together (nervus vagus cum accessorio) resemble a spinal nerve, of which the former with its ganglion is the posterior and sensitive root, the latter the an- terior and motor root. Ninth pair.* Hypoglossal nerve (lingual). The hypoglos- sal nerve arises from .the groove between the corpus pyramidale and corpus olivare by ten or fifteen filaments, which being collected into two bundles, escape from the cranium through the anterior condyloid foramen. The nerve then passes forwards between the internal carotid artery and internal jugular vein, and descends along the anterior and inner side of the vein to a point parallel with the angle of the lower jaw. It next curves inwards around the occipital artery, with which it forms a loop, and crossing the lower part of the hyo- glossus muscle to the genio-hyo-glossus, sends filaments onwards with the anterior fibres of that muscle as far as the tip of the tongue. It is distributed to the muscles of the tongue, and principally to the genio-hyo-glossus. While resting on the hyo-glossus muscle it is flattened, and beneath the mylo-hyoideus it communicates with the gustatory nerve. At its origin, the hypoglossal nerve sometimes communicates with the posterior root of the first cervical nerve. The Branches of the hjq)oglossal nerve are :— Communicating branches with the Pneumogastric, Spinal accessory. First and second cervical nerves. Sympathetic. Descendens noni, Thyro-hyoidean branch. Communicating filaments with the gustatory nerve. • The twelfth pair according to the arrangement of Soemmering.