MUSCLES OF THE HAND. 245 Actions.—The anconeus is associated in its action with the triceps extensor cubiti: it assists in extending the fore-arm upon the arm. The supinator longus and brevis effect the supination of the fore-arm, and antagonize the two pronators. The extensor carpi radialis longior and brevior, and extensor carpi ulnaris, extend the wrist in opposition to the two flexors of the carpus. The extensor communis digitorum restores the fingers to the straight position after they have been flexed by the two flexors, sublimis and profundus. The extensor ossis meta- carpi, primi internodii, and secundi intemodii pollicis, are the especial extensors of the thumb, and serve to balance the actions of the flexor ossis metacarpi, flexor brevis, and flexor longus pollicis. The extensor indicis gives the character of extension to the index finger, and is hence named “indicator,” and the extensor minimi digit! supplies that finger with the power of exercising a distinct extension. MUSCLES OF THE HAND. Radial or Thenar Region. Abductor pollicis, Flexor ossis metacarpi (opponens), Flexor brevis pollicis, Adductor pollicis. Dissection.—The hand is best dissected by making an incision along the middle of the palm, from the wrist to the bases of the fingers, and crossing it at each extremity by a transverse incision, then turning aside the flaps of integument. For exposing the muscles of the radial region, the removal of the integument and fascia on the radial side will be sufficient. The Abductor pollicis is a small, thin muscle, which arises from the scaphoid bone and annular ligament. It is inserted into the base of the first phalanx of the thumb. Relations.—By its superficial surface with the external portion of the palmar fascia. By its deep surface with the flexor ossis metacarpi. On its inner side it is separated by a narrow areolar interspace from the flexor brevis pollicis. This muscle must be divided from its origin, and turned upwards, in order to see the next. The Flexor ossis metacarpi (opponens pollicis) arises from the • trapezium and annular ligament, and is inserted into the whole length of the metacarpal bone. Relations.—By its superficial surface with the abductor pollicis. By its deep surface with the trapezio-metacarpal articulation and with • the metacarpal bone. Internally with the flexor brevis pollicis. The flexor ossis metacarpi may now be divided from its origin and ; turned aside, in order to shew the next muscle. The Flexor brevis pollicis consists of two portions, between which lies the tendon of the flexor longus pollicis. The external portion