177 BUCCINATOR.—PTERYGOIDEI. nal pterygoid muscle, a part of the huccinator, and the internal maxil- lary artery with its deep temporal branches. By sawing through the coronoid process near its base, and pulling it upwards, together with the temporal muscle, wliich may be dissected from the fossa, we obtain a view of the entire extent of the buccinator and of the external pterygoid muscle. The Buccinator {biKcina, a trumpet) the trumpeter’s muscle, arises from the alveolar process of the superior maxillaiy bone, from the ex- temal oblique line of the inferior maxillary bone, as far forward as the second bicuspid tooth, and from the pterygo-maxillary ligament. This ligament is the raphe of union between the buccinator and supe- rior constrictor muscle, and is attached by one extremity to the harnu- lar process of the internal pterygoid plate, and by the other to the extremity of the molar ridge. The fibres of the muscle converge to- wards the angle of the mouth where they cross each other, the supe- rior being continuous with the inferior segment of the orbicularis oris, and the inferior with the superior segment. The muscle is invested externally by a thin fascia. ■Relations.—By its eaiernal surface, posteriorly, with a large and rounded mass of fat, which separates the muscle from the ramus of the lower jaw, the temporal, and the masseter ; anteriorly with the risorius Santorini, the zygomatici, the levator angiili oris, and the depressor anguli oris. It is also in relation with a part of Stenon’s duct, (which pierces it opposite the second molar tooth of the upper jaw,) with the transverse facial artery, the branches of the facial and buccal nerve, and the facial artery and vein. By its internal surface with the buccal glands and mucous membrane of the mouth. The External pterygoid is a short and thick muscle, broader at its origin than at its insertion. It arises by two heads, one from the pterj'goid ridge on the greater ala of the sphenoid ; the other from the external pterygoid plate and tuberosity of the palate bone. The fibres pass backwards to be inserted into the neck of the lower jaw and the interarticular fibro-cartilage. The internal maxillary artery fi:equently passes between the two heads of this muscle. Relations.—By its external surface with the ramus of the lower jaw, the temporal muscle, and the internal maxillarj'' artery; by its internal surface with the internal pterygoid muscle, internal lateral ligament of the lower jaw, arteria meningea media, and inferior maxillary nerve ; and by its upper border with the muscular branches of the inferior maxillarj' nerve; the internal maxillary artery passes between the two heads of this muscle, and its lower origin is pierced by the buccal nerve. The external pterj-goid muscle must now be removed, the ramus of the lower jaw sawn through its lower third, and the head of the bone dislocated from its socket and withdrawn, for the purpose of seeing the pterygoideus intemus. The Internal pterygoid is a thick quadrangular niuscle. It arises from the ptcrj'goid fossa and descends obliquely backwards, to be inserted into the ramus and angle of the lower jaw ; it resembles N