487 OTIC GANGLION. of the hard palate to which it is distributed, and communicates with the naso-palatine ganglion and with its branches. While in the pos- terior palatine canal, this nerve gives off several branches, which enter the nose through openings in the palate bone, and are distributed to the middle and inferior meatus, the inferior spongy bone, and the antrum. The middle palatine nerve descends through the same canal to the posterior palatine foramen, and distributes branches to the tonsil, soft palate, and uvula. The posterior palatine nerve, the smallest of the three, quits the other nerves to enter a distinct canal, from which it emerges by a se- parate opening behind the posterior palatine foramen. It is distributed to the hard palate and gums near the point of its emergence, and also to the tonsil and soft palate. The branches of communication are the ascending and the posterior. The ascending branches are, one or two to join the superior maxillary nerve ; one to the abducens nerve ; one to the ciliary ganglion con- stituting its middle root; and occasionally two filaments to the optic nerve within the orbit. The posterior branch is the Vidian or ptery- goid nerve. The Vidian * nerve passes directly backwards from tlie spheno- palatine ganglion, through the pterygoid or Vidian canal, to the fora- men lacerum basis cranii, where it divides into two branches, the carotid and petrosal. The carotid branch (n. fpetrosus profundus) crosses the foramen lacerum, suirounded by the ligamentous substance which closes that opening, and enters the carotid canal by several filaments, to join the carotid plexus. The petrosal branch (n. petrosus auperficialis major) enters the cranium through the foramen lacerum basis cranii, piercing the ligamentous substance of the latter, and passes backwards beneath the Gasserian ganglion and dura mater, embedded in a groove upon the anterior surface of the petrous bone, to the hiatus Fallopii. In the hiatus Fallopii the petrosal branch of the Vidian receives a twig from Jacobson’s nerve, and terminates in the intumescentia gangliformis of the facial nerve. While in the pterygoid canal, the Vidian nerve sends off a minute branch which passes through an opening in the sphenoid bone and joins the otic ganglion. The Otic ganglion (Arnold’s)+ is a small oval-shaped and flat- tened ganglion, which lies against the inner surface of the inferior maxillarj' nerve, immediately below the foramen ovale ; it is in relor tion, externally, with the trunk of the inferior maxillary nerve, just at the point of union of the motor root; internally it rests against the • Gnido Guidi, latinised into Vidus Vidius, was professor of anatomy and medicine in the College of France in 1542. His work is posthumous, and was pubiishcd in 1611. t Frederick Arnold, “Dissertatio Inauguralis de Parte Cephalica Nervi Sympathetic!.” Heidelberg, 1826; and “Ueberden Ohrknoteii,” 1828.