541 COLUMN/E CARNE.E. lumuB cameie) which stand out from the walls of the ventricle, and serve as muscles to the valves. A number of these tendinous cords converge to a single muscular attachment. The tricuspid valves pre- vent the regurgitation of blood into the auricle during the contraction of the ventricle, and they are prevented from being themselves driven back by the chordae tendineae and their muscular attachments. This connection of the muscular columns of the heart to the valves has caused their division into active and passive. The active valves are the tricuspid and mitral; the passive, the semilimar and coronary. The valves consist, according to Mr. King,* of curtains, cords, and columns. The anterior valve or curtain is the largest, and is so placed as to prevent the filling of the pulmonary artery during the distension of the ventricle. The right valve or curtain is of smaller size, and is situated on the right side of the auriculo-ventricular opening. The third valve, or ‘'‘fired curtain," is connected by its cords to the septum ventriculorum. The cords (chordae tendineae) of the anterior curtain are attached, principally, to a long column (columna caniea), wliich is con- nected with the “ right or thin and yielding wall of the ventricle.” From the lower part of this column a transverse muscular band, the “ Img moderator band," is stretched to the septum ventriculorum, or “solid tcall" of the ventricle. The right curtain is connected, by means of its cords, partly with the long column, and partly with its own proper column, the second column, which is also attached to the “yielding wail" of the ventricle. A third and smaller column is gene- rally connected with the right curtain. The “ fixed curtain" is so named from its attachment to the “ solid wail ” of the ventricle, by means of cords only, without fleshy columns. From this arrangement of the valves it follows, that if the right ventricle be over distended, the thin or “yielding wall" will give way, and carry with it the columns of the anterior and right valves. The cords connected with these columns will draw down the edges ■ of the corresponding valves, and produce an opening between the curtains, through which the superabundant blood may escape into the auricle, and the ventricle be relieved from over-pressure. This 1 mechanism is therefore adapted to fulfil the “ function of a safety valve." The Columned camece (fleshj’" columns) is a name expressive of the ; appearance of the internal walls of the ventricles, which seem formed I of muscular columns interlacing in almost every direction. They i are divided, according to the manner of their connection, into three (sets. 1. The greater number are attached by the whole of one I side, and merely form convexities into the cavity of the ventricle. ; 2, Others are connected bj’' both extremities, being free in the middle. • 3. A few (columnse papillares) are attached by one extremity to ! the walls of the heart, and by the other give insertion to the chordae ! tendineae. • “Essay on the Safety Valve Function in the Right Ventricle of the Human 1 Heart.” by T. W. King. Guy’s Hospital Reports, vol. ii.