120 LIGAMENTS OP THE VERTEBRAL COLUMN, in the dorsal region ; and contributes, in a great measure, to the for- mation of the natural curves of the vertebral column. When the intervertebral substance is bisected either horizontally or vertically, it is seen to be composed of a series of layers of dense fibrous tissue, separated by interstices filled with the softer kind. The central part of each intervertebral disc is wholly made up of this softer fibrous cartilage, which has the appearance of a pulp, #,nd is so elastic as to rise above the level of the section as soon as its division is completed. When examined from the front, the layers are found each other at the middle line by a slight interspace. They coun- teract, by their elasticity, the efforts of the flexor muscles of the trunk; and by preserving the upright position of the spine, limit the expenditure of muscular force. They are longer in the cervical than in the other regions of the spine, and are thickest in the lumbar region. The ligamenta subflava are in relation by both surfaces with the meningo-rachidian veins, and internally they are separated from the dura mater of the spinal cord by those veins and some loose areolar and adipose tissue. Articular processes.—The ligaments of the articidar processes of the vertebrae are loose sjTiovial capsules which surround the articu- lating surfaces. They are protected on their external side by a thin layer of ligamentous fibres. Spinous processes. — The inter-spinous ligaments are thin and membranous, and are extended between the spinous processes in the dorsal and lumbar regions. They are thickest in the latter region; and are in relation with the multifidus spin® muscle at each side. * An internal view of the arches of three vertebra. To obtain this view the lamina have been divided through their pedicles. 1. One of the ligamenta subflava. 2. The capsular ligament of one side. Fig. 54.* to consist of fibres passing ob- liquely between the two verte- brae, in one layer passing from left to right, in the next from right to left, alternating in each successive layer. Arches. — The ligamenta subflava are two thin planes, of yellow fibrous tissue, situa- ted between the arches of each pair of vertebrae, from the axis to the sacrum. From the im- bricated position of the laminae they are attached to the poste- rior surface of the vertebra be- low, and to the anterior sur- face of the arch of the vertebra above, and are separated fr'om