10 ^ VERTEBRAL COLUMN. The vertebral column is the first and only rudiment of internal skeleton in the lower Vertebrata, and constitutes the type of that great division of the animal kingdom. It is also the first developed portion of the skeleton in man, and the centre around which all the other parts are produced. In its earliest formation it is a simple cartilaginous cylinder, surrounding and protecting the primitive trace of the nervous system; but, as it advances in growth and organi- sation, it becomes divided into distinct pieces, which constitute vertehrcB. The vertebrae are divided into true and false. The true vertebrae are twenty-four in number, and are classified, according to the three • regions of the trunk which they occupy, into cervical, dorsal, and lumbar. The false vertebrae consist of nine pieces united into two bones, the sacrum and coccyx. The arrangement of the vertebrae may be better comprehended by means of the accompanying table;— {7 Cervical, 12 Dorsal, 5 Lumbar. False vertebrae 9 ^ ^ Sacrum, ( 4 Loccj'x. Characters of a Vertebra.—A vertebra consists of a body, two laminae, a spinous process, two transverse processes, and four articular processes. The body is the solid part of the vertebra; and, bj* its arti- culation with adjoining vertebrae, gives strength and support to the trunk. It is flattened above and below, convex in front, and slightly concave behind. Its anterior surface is constricted around the middle, and pierced by a number of small openings which give passage to nutritious vessels. Upon its posterior surface is a single irregular opening, or several, for the exit of the venae basis vertebrae. The lammcB commence upon the sides of the posterior part of the body of the vertebra by two pedicles; they then expand; and, arching backwards, eficlose a foramen which serves for the protection of the 8])inal cord. The upper and lower borders of the laminae are rough for the attachment of the ligamenta subflava. The concavities above and below the pedicles are the intervertebral notches. The spinous process stands backwards from the angle of union of the laminae of the vertebra. It is the succession of these projecting processes along the middle line of the back, that has given rise to the common designation of the vertebral column, the spine. The use of the spinous process is for the attachment of muscles. The transverse processes project one at each side from the laminae of the vertebra; they are intended for the