SPHENOID BONE. 35 Atiadiment of Muscles.—To fourteen: by tlie squamous portion, to the temporal; by the zygoma, to the masseter; by the mastoid por- tion, to the occipito-frontalis, splenius capitis, sterno-mastoid, trachelo- mastoid, digastricus and retrahens aurem; by the styloid process, to the stylo-pharyngeus, stylo-hyoideus, stylo-glossus, and two ligaments, the stylo-hyoid and stylo-maxillary; and by the petrous portion, to the levator palati, tensor tympani, and stapedius. Sphenoid Bone.—The sphenoid a wedge) is an irregular bone situated at the base of the skull, wedged between the other bones of the cranium, and entering into the formation both of the cranium . and face. It bears some resemblance, in form, to a bat with its wings extended, and is divisible into bodj’^, wings, and processes. The body forms the central mass of the bone, from which the wings rand processes are projected. From the upper and anterior part of the body extend on each side two small triangular plates—the lesser wings; ; from either side and expanding laterally are the greater wings ; pro- cceeding backwards from the base of the greater wings, the spinous pprocesses, and downwards, the pterj'goid processes. The body presents for examination a superior or cerebral surface, an aantero-inferior surface, and a posterior surface. Superior Surface.—At the anterior extremity of this surface is a ramall projecting plate, the ethmoidal spine, and spreading out on neither side the lesser wings. Behind the ethmoidal spine in the : middle line is a rounded elevation, the olivary process, which supports ! the commissure of the optic nerves; and on either side of the posterior r margin of this process is a tubercle, the middle clinoid process. Pass- ing outwards and forwards from the olivary process, are the optic foramina, which transmit the optic nerves and ophthalmic arteries. ! Behind the optic foramina are two sharp tubercles, the anterior clinoid i processes, which arc the inner terminations of the lesser wings. Be- ! neath these processes, on the sides of the olivary process, are two '■depressions* for the last turn of the internal carotid arteries. Behind •.the olivary process is the sella turcica (ephippium), the deep fossa vwhich lodges the pituitary gland and circular sinus; behind and some- • vvhat overhanging the sella turcica, is a broad rough plate (dorsum • ?phippii) bounded at each angle by a tubercle, the posterior clinoid. nrocesses; and behind this plate an inclining surface (clivus Blumen- oachii), which is continuous with the basilar process of the occipital toone. On either side of the sella turcica is a broad groove {carotid) .vhich lodges the internal carotid artery, the cavernous sinus, and the ■orbital nerves. Immediately external to this groove, at the junction ■of the greiiter wings with the body, are four foramina ; the first is a : jroad interval, the sphenoidal fissure, which separates the greater and * These depressions are occa.“ionally, as in a skull before mo, converted into mina by the extension of a short bony pillar from the middle to the anterior ' dinoid process.