I DEEP PERINEAL FASCIA. 285 funnel-shaped process is continued backward beneath the prostate i gland and the vesiculie seniinales, and is continuous with the recto- i vesical fascia of Tyrrell, which is attached posteriorly to the recto- i vesical fold of peritoneum, and serves the important office of retaining that duplicatime in its proper situation. ! Between the two layers of the deep perineal fascia are situated, 1 therefore, the whole extent of the membranous portion of the urethra, Fig. 116.* • A side view of the viscera of the pelvis, shewing the distribution of the pe- rineal and pelvic fasciae. 1. The symphysis pubis. 2. The bladder. 3. The recto-vesical fold of peritoneum, passing from the anterior surface of the rectum to the posterior part of the bladder; from the upper part of the fundus of the bladder it is reflected upon the abdominal parietes. 4. The ureter. 5. The vas deferens crossing the direction of the ureter. 5. The vesicula seminalis of the right side. 7, 7. The prostate gland divided by a longitudinal section. 8, 8. The section of a ring of elastic tissue which encircles the prostatic portion of the urethra at its commencement. 9. The prostatic portion of the urethra. 10. The membranous portion enclosed by the compressor urethree muscle. 11. The commencement of the corpus spongiosum penis, the bulb. 12. The ante- rior ligaments of the bladder formed by the reflection of the pelvic fascia, from the internal surface of the os pubis to the neck of the bladder. 13. The edge of the pelvic fascia at the point where it is reflected upon the rectum. 14. An in- terval between the pelvic fascia and deep perineal fascia, occupied by a plexus of veins. 15. The deep perineal fascia; its two layers. 16. Cowper’s gland of the right side situated between the two layers below the membranous portion of the urethra. 17. The superficial perineal fascia ascending in front of the root of the penis to become continuous with the dartos of the scrotum (18). 19. The layer of the deep fascia which is prolonged to the rectum. 20. The lower part of the levator ani; its fibres are concealed by the anal fascia. 21. The in- ferior segment of the funnel-shaped process given off from the posterior layer of the deep perineal fascia, which is continuous with the recto-vesical fascia of Tyrrell. The attachment of this fascia to the recto-vesical fold of peritoneum is seen at 22.