584 FISSURES AND LOBES The Loiiyitudiml lujamcni (broad, ligamentum suspensorium hepatis) is an antero-posterior fold of peritoneum, extending from the notch on the anterior margin of the liver to its posterior border. Between its two layers, in the anterior and free margin, is the round ligament. The Lateral ligaments are fonned by the two layers of peritoneum, which pass from the under surface of the diaphragm to the posterior border of the liver; they correspond with its lateral lobes. The Coronary ligament is formed by the separation of the two layers fanning the lateral ligaments near their point of convergence. The posterior layer is continued unbroken from one lateral ligament into the other; but the anterior quits the posterior at each side, and is con- tinuous with the corresponding layer of the longitudinal ligament. In this way a large oval surface on the posterior border of the liver is left uncovered by peritoneum, and is connected to the diaphragm by areolo- fibrous tissue. This space is forced principally by the right lateral ligament, and is pierced near its left extremity bj' the inferior vena cava, previously to the passage of that vessel through the tendinous opening in the diaphragm. The Round ligament is a fibrous cord resulting from the obliteration of the umbilical vein, and situated between the two layers of perito- neum in the anterior liorder of the longitudinal ligament. It may be traced from the umbilicus, along the longitudinal fissure of the under surface of the liver to the inferior vena cava, to which it is con- nected. Fissures.—The under surface of the liver is marked by five fissures, which divide its surface into five compartments or lobes, two principal and three minor lobes; they are the— Fissures. Longitudinal fissure. Fissure of the ductus venosus. Transverse fissure. Fissure for the gall bladder Fissure for the vena cava. Lohes. Right lobe, Left lobe, Lobus quadratus, Lobus Spigelii, Lobus caudatus. The Longitudinal fissure is a deep groove ranning from the notch upon the anterior margin of the liver, to the posterior border of the organ. At about one-third from its posterior extremity it is joined by a short but deep fissure, the transverse, which meets it transversely from the under part of the right lobe. The longitudinal fissure in front of this junction lodges the fibrous cord of the umbilical vein, and is generally crossed by a band of hepatic substance called the pons hepatis. The Fissure for the ductus venosus is the shorter portion of the longi- tudinal fissure, extending from the junctional termination of the trans- A'^erse fissure to the posterior border of the liver, and containing a small fibrous cord, the remains of the ductus venosus. This fissure is there- fore but a part of the longitudinal fissure. The Transverse fissure is the short and deep fissure, about two inches I I \ 1 i