.542 I.EFT AURICI.E. The Semilunar ixdves, three in number, are situated around the commencement of the pulmonary artery, being formed by a folding of its lining membrane, strengthened by a thin layer of fibrous tissue. They are attached by their convex borders, and free by the concave which are directed upwards in the course of the vessel, so that, during the current of the blood along the artery, they are pressed against the sides of the cylinder; but if any attempt at regurgitation ensue they are immediately expanded, and effectually close the entrance of the tube. The margins of the valves are thicker than the rest of their extent, and each valve presents in the centre of this margin a small fibro-cartilaginous tubercle, called corpus Arantii* which locks in with the other two during the closure of the valves, and secures the triangular space that would otherwise be left by the approximation of three semilunar folds. Between the semilunar valves and the cylinder of the artery are three pouches, called the sinuses (sinuses of Valsalva). Similar sinuses are situated behind the valves at the commencement of the aorta, and are larger and more capacious than those of the pulmo- nary artery. The Pulmonary ai'tery commences by a scalloped border, corre- sponding with the three valves which are attached along its edge. It is connected to the ventricle by muscular fibres, and by the lining mem- brane of the heart. The Left auricle is somewhat smaller, but thicker, than the right; of a cuboid form, and situated more posteriorly. The appendix auricvlcB is constricted at its junction with the auricle, and has a fo- liated appearance ; it is directed forwards towards the root of the pulmonary artery, to which the auriculae of both sides appear to con- verge. The left auricle is to be laid open by a shaped incision, the hori- zontal section being made along the border, which is attached to the base of the ventricle. It presents for examination five openings, and the muscular structure of the appendix; these are,— Four pulmonary veins, Auriculo-ventricular opening, Musculi pectinati. The Pulmonary vei7is, two from the right and two from the left lung, open into the corresponding sides of the auricle. The two left pulmo- nary veins terminate frequently by a common opening. The Auriculo-ventricular opening is the aperture of communication between the auricle and ventricle. The Musculi pectinati are fewer in number than in the right auricle, and are situated only in the appendix auriculae. • Julius Caesar Arantius, Professor of Medicine in Bologna. He was a dis- ciple of Vesalius, one of the founders of modem anatomy. His treatise “ De Humano Foetu ” was published at Rome, in 1564.