MUSCLES OP THE SOLE OF THE FOOT. •274 the external plantar artery and veins, the interossei muscles, tendon of the peroneus longus, and metatarsal bone of the great toe. By its mner border with the flexor brevis pollicis ; with which its fibres are blended. The Fle.xor brevis minimi digiti arises from the base of the metatarsal bone of the little toe, and from the sheath of the tendon of the peroneus longus. It is inserted into the base of the first phalanx of the little toe. Relations.—By its superficial surface with the tendons of the flexor longus and flexor brevis digitorum, the fourth lumbricalis, abductor minimi digiti, and plantar fascia. By its deep surface with the plan- tar interosseous muscle of the fourth metatarsal space, and the meta- tarsal bone. The Transversus pedis arises by fleshy slips, from the heads of the metatarsal bones of the four lesser toes. Its tendon is inserted into the base of the first phalanx of the great toe, being blended with that of the adductor pollicis. Relations.—By its superficial surface with the tendons of the flexor longus and flexor brevis digitorum, and the lumbricales. By its deep surface with the interossei, and heads of the metatarsal bones. Fourth Layer. Interossei Plantares. The Plantar interossei muscles are three in number, and are placed upon rather than between the metatarsal bones. They arise from the base of the metatarsal bones of the three outer toes, and are inserted into the inner side of the extensor tendon and base of the first phalanx of the same toes. In their action they are aU adductors. Relations.—By their superficial surface with the dorsal interossei and the metatarsal bones. By their deep surface with the external plantar artery and veins, the adductor pollicis, transversus pedis, and flexor minimi digiti. Actions.—All the preceding muscles act upon the toes ; and the movements which they are capable of executing may be referred to four heads, viz. flexion, extension, adduction, and abduction. In these actions they are grouped in the following manner:— Flexion. Extension. Flexor longus digitorum. Flexor brevis digitorum. Flexor accessorius, < Flexor minimi digiti. Adduction- Interossei, one dorsal, three plantar. Extensor longus digitorum, Extensor brevis digitorum. A hduetion. Interossei, three dorsal. Abductor minimi digiti.