11 CERVICAL VERTEBR.E. attachment of muscles. The articular processes^ four in number, stand upwards and downwards from the laminae of the vertebra, to articulate with the vertebra above and below. Cervical Vertehrm. — In a cervical vertebra the body 5* is smaller than in the other regions; it is thicker be- fore than behind, broad from side to side, concave on the upper surface, and convex below; so that, when arti- culated, the vertebrae lock the one into the other. The lamincB are narrow and long, and the included spinal foramen large and triangu- lar. The superior interver- tebral notches are slightly deeper than the inferior; the inferior being the broadest. The spinous process is short and bifid at the extremity, increasing in length from the fourth to the seventh. The transverse processes are also short and bifid, and deeply grooved along the upper surface for the cervical nerves. Piercing the base of the transverse process is the vertebral forament, which gives passage to the vertebral artery and vein, and vertebral plexus of nerves. The transverse processes in this region are formed by two small developments which proceed, the one from the side of the body, the other from the pedicle of the vertebra, and unite near their extremities to enclose the circular area of the vertebral fora- men. The anterior of these developments is the rudiment of a cervi- cal rib ; and the posterior, the analogue of the transverse processes in the dorsal region. The extremities of these developments are the anterior and posterior tvhereles of the transverse process. The articular processes are oblique; the superior looking upwards and backwards; and the inferior, downwards and forwards. There are three peculiar vertebrae in the cervical region;—The first, or atlas; the second, or axis; and the seventh, or vertebra promi- nens. The Atlas (named from supporting the head) is a simple ring of bone, without body, and composed of arches and processes. The an- * A'central cervical vertebra, seen upon its upper surface. 1. The body, concave in the middle, and rising on each side into a sharp ridge. 2. Tlio lamina. 8. The pedicle, rendered concave by the superior intervertebral notch. 4. The bifid spinous proce.ss. 6. The bifid transverse process. The figure is placed in the concavity between the anterior and posterior tubercles, between the two processes which correspond with the rudimentaiy rib and the true transverse process. 6. The vertebral foramen. 7. The superior articular pro- cess, looking backwards and upwards. 8. The inferior articular process. t Sometimes, as in a vertebra now before me, a small additional opening exists by the side of the vertebral foramen, in which case it is traversed by a second vein.