122 LIGAMENTS OP THE VERTEBRAL COLUMN. the basilar process of the occipital bone ; and below, to the anterior tubercle of the atlas. The deeper ligament is a broad membranous layer, attached above, to the margin of the occipital foramen ; and below, to the whole length of the artterior arch of the atlas. It is in relation in front with the recti antici minores and behind with the odontoid ligaments. The posterior ligament is thin and membranous ; it is attached above, to the margin of the occipital foramen ; and below, to the pos- terior arch of the atlas. It is closely adherent to the dura mater, by its inner surface ; and forms a ligamentous arch at each side, for the passage of the vertebral arteries and first cervical nerves. It is in Fig. 56.* relation posteriorly with the recti postici minores and obliqui supe- riores. The lateral ligaments are strong fasciculi of ligamentous fibres, attached below, to the base of the transverse process of the atlas at each side, and above, to the [transverse process of the occipital bone. With a ligamentous expansion derived from the vaginal process of the temporal bone, these ligaments form a strong sheath around the vessels and nerves which pass through the carotid and jugular foramina. The capsular ligaments are the thin and loose ligamentous capsides, which surround the synovial membranes of the articulations between the condyles of the occipital bone and the superior articidar processes of the atlas. The ligamentous fibres are most numerous upon the anterior and external part of the articulation. * The posterior ligaments of the occipito-atloid, and atlo-axoid articulations. 1. The atlas. 2. The axis. 3. The posterior ligament of the occipito-atloid articulation. *4, 4. The capsular and lateral ligaments of this articulation. 6. The posterior ligament of the atlo-axoid articulation. 6, 6. Its capsular ligaments. 7. The first of the ligamenta subflava passing between the axis and the third cervical vertebra. 8, 8. The capsular ligaments of those vertebrae.