DEVELOPMENT OF BONE. 7 cellular substance. By one other repetition of the same process, each cell producing four, or five, or six young cells, a cluster is formed, con- taining from thirty to fifty cells. These clusters lie in immediate relation with the punctum ossificationis; they are oval in figure (about in length by in breadth), and placed in the direction of the longitudinal axis of the bone. The cells composing the cluster lie transversely with regard to its axis. In the first instance they are closely compressed, but by degrees are parted by a thin layer of inter- cellular substance, and each cluster is separated from neighbouring Fig. 4.* clusters by a broader layer of an inch) of intercellular substance. Such are the changes which occur in cartilage preparatory to the for- mation of bone. Ossification is accomplished by the formation of very fine and deli- cate fibres within the intercellular substance; this process commences at the punctum ossificationis, and extends from that point through every part of the bone, in a longitudinal direction in long, and in a radiated manner in flat bones. Starting from the punctum ossificationis, the fibres embrace each cluster of cells, and then send branches between the individual cells of each group. In this manner the network, characteristic of bone, is formed, while the cells by their conjunction • The same cartilage at the scat of ossification; the clusters of cells arc arranged in coiumns; the intercellular spaces between the columns being ^nzVo of an inch in breadth. To the right of the figure osseous fibres are seen occu- pying the intercellular spaces, at first bounding the clusters laterally, then split- ting them longitudinally, and encircling each separate cell. The greater opacity of the right-hand border is duo to a threefold cause, the increase of osseous fibres, the opacity of the contents of the cells, and the multiplication of oil- globules. In the lower part of the figure some attempt has been made to show the texture of the colls.