394 LVMPirATICS OF THE VISCERA. The Internal iliac glands are situated in tlie course of the internal iliac vessels, and the sacral glands are supported by the concave sur- face of the sacrum. The Deep lymphatic vessels are continued upwards from the thigh, beneath Poupart’s ligament, and along the external iliac vessels to the lumbar glands, receiving in their course the epigastric, circumflexa ilii, and ilio-lumbar lymphatic vessels. Those from the parietes of the pelvis, and from the gluteal, ischiatic, and obturator vessels, follow the course of the internal iliac arteries, and unite with the lumbar Ijun- phatics. And the lumbar lymphatic vessels, after receiving all the lymphatics from the lower extremities, pelvis, and loins, tenninate by several large trunks in the receptaculum chyli. LVMPHATICS OF THE VISCERA. The Lymphatic vessels of the lungs are of large size, and are distri- buted over every part of the surface, and through the texture of these organs ; they converge to the numerous glands situated around the bifurcation of the trachea and roots of the lungs, the bronchial glands. Some of these glands of small size, may be traced in connection with the bronchial tubes for some distance into the lungs. The efferent vessels from the bronchial glands unite with the tracheal and oesopha- geal glands, and terminate principally in the thoracic duct at the root of the neck, and partly in the ductus lymphaticus dexter. The bron- chial glands, in the adult, present a variable tint of brown, and in old age a deep black colour. In infancj”^ they have none of this pigment, and are not to be distinguished from 13'mphatic glands in other situa- tions. The Lymphatic vessels of the heart originate in the subserous areolar tissue of the surface, and in the deeper tissues of the organ, and follow the course of the vessels, principally, along the right border of the heart to the glands situated around the arch of the aorta and to the bron- chial glands, whence they proceed to the root of the neck, and termi- nate in the thoracic duct. The Pericardiac and thymic lymphatic vessels proceed to join the anterior mediastinal and bronchial glands. The Lymphatic vessels of the liver are divisible into the deep and superficial. The former take their course through the portal canals, and through the right border of the lesser omentum, to the lymphatic glands situated in the course of the hepatic artery and along the lesser curve of the stomach. The superficial lymphatics are situated in the areolar structure of the proper capsule, over the whole surface of the liver. Those of the convex surface are divided into two sets;— 1. Those which pass from before backwards; 2. Those which advance from behind forwards. The former unite to form trunks, which enter between the folds of the lateral ligaments at the right