332 BRANCHES OP THE ABDOMINAX^ AORTA. size and origin. They are distributed to the bronchial glands and tubes, and send branches to the oesophagus, pericardium, and left auricle of the heart. These are the nutritious vessels of the lungs. The (Esophageal arteries are numerous small branches; they arise from the anterior part of the aorta, are distributed to the oeso- phagus, and establish a chain of anastomoses along that tube: the superior inosculate with the bronchial arteries, and with (esophageal branches of the inferior thyroid arteries ; and the inferior with similar branches of the phrenic and gastric arteries. The Intercostal, or posterior intercostal arteries, arise from the posterior part of the aorta ; they are nine in number on each side, the two superior spaces being supplied by the superior intercostal artery, a branch of the subclavian. The right intercostals are longer than the left, on account of the position of the aorta. They ascend somewhat obliquely from their origin, and cross the vertebral column behind the thoracic duct, vena azygos major, and sympathetic nerve, to the inter- costal spaces, the left passing beneath the superior intercostal vein, the vena azygos minor and sympathetic. In the intercostal spaces, or rather, upon the external intercostal muscles, each artery gives off a dorsal branch, which passes back between the transverse processes of the vertebrae, lying internally to the middle costo-transverse ligament, and divides into a spinal branch, which supplies the spinal cord an(i vertebrae, and a muscular branch which is distributed to the muscles and integument of the back. The artery then comes into relation with its vein and nerve, the former being above and the latter below, and divides into two branches which run along the borders of conti- guous ribs between the two planes of intercostal muscles, and ana- stomose with the anterior intercostal arteries, branches of the internal mammary. The branch corresponding with the lower border of each rib is the larger of the two. They are protected from pressure during the action of the intercostal muscles, by little tendinous arches thrown across them and attached by each extremity to the bone. BRANCHES OF THE ABDOMIxVAL AORTA. Phrenic, Superior mesenteric. Spermatic, Inferior mesenteric, Supra-renal, Renal, Lumbar, Sacra media