RIGHT AURICLE. 539 stretching across the mouth of the coronary vein, and preventing the reflux of the blood in the vein during the contraction of the auricle. The Annulus ovalis is situated on the septum auricularum, opposite the termination of the inferior cava. It is the rounded margin of the septum, which occupies the place of the foramen ovale of the foetus. The Fossa ovalis is an oval depression corresponding with the fora- men ovale in the foetus. This opening is closed at birth by a thin valvular layer, which is continuous with the left margin of the annulus and is frequently imperfect at its upper part. The depression or fossa Fig. 171.* * The anatomy of the heart; the organ is viewed upon the right side. 1. The cavity of the right auricle. 2. The appendix auriculae, in the cavity of which the musculi pectinati are seen. 3. The superior vena cava, opening into the upper part of the right auricle. 4. The inferior vena cava. 5. The fossa ovalis; the prominent ridge surrounding it is the annulus ovalis. 6. The Eustachian valve. 7. The opening of the coronary vein. 8. The coronary valve. 9. The entrance of the auriculo-ventricular opening. Between the numbers 1 and 9, two or three of the foramina Thebesii are seen. o. The right ventricle, b c. The cavity of the right ventricle, on the walls of which the columnae came® are seen ; c is placed in the channel leading upwards to the pulmonaiy artery, d. e.f. Tbe tricuspid valve ; e is placed on the anterior curtain, and /, on the right curtain, g. The long columna carnea, to the apex of which the anterior and right curtains of the tricuspid valve arc connected by the chord® tendine®. h. The “ long moderator band.” i. The two column® came® of the right curtain. k. The attachment by chord® tendine® of the left limb of the anterior curtain. /, 1. Chord® tendine® of the “ fixed curtain ” of the valve, m. The valve of the pulmonary artery. The letter of reference is placed on the inferior semilunar segment, n. The apex of the right appendix auricul®. o. The left ventricle. p. The ascending aorta, q. Its arch, with the three arterial trunks which arise from the arch, r. The descending aorta.