384 PORTAL SYSTEM. CARDIAC VEINS. Tlie veins returning the blood from the substance of the heart, are the— Great cardiac Vein, Posterior cardiac veins, Anterior cardiac veins. Venae Thebesii. The Great cardiac vein (coronary) commences at the apex of the lieart, and ascends along the anterior ventricular groove to the base of the ventricles ; it then curves around the left auriculo-ventricular groove to the posterior part of the heart, where it terminates in the right auricle. It receives in its course the left cardiac veins from the left auricle and ventricle, and the posterior cardiac veins from the pos- terior ventricular groove. The Posterior cardiac vein, frequently two in number, commences also at the apex of the heart, and ascends along the posterior ventri- cular groove, to terminate in the great cardiac vein. It receives the veins from the posterior aspect of the two ventricles. The Anterior cardiac veins collect the blood from the anterior sur- face of the right ventricle; one larger than the rest runs along the right border of the heart and joins the trunk formed by these veins, which curves around the right auriculo-ventricular groove, to terminate in the great cardiac vein near its entrance into the right auricle. The VencB Thehesii are numerous minute venules which convey the venous blood directly from the substance of the heart into its four cavities. Their existence is denied by some anatomists. PORTAL SYSTEM. The portal system is composed of four large veins which return the blood from the chylopoietic viscera; they are the— Inferior mesenteric vein, Superior mesenteric vein. Splenic vein. Gastric veins. The Inferior mesenteric vein receives its blood from the rectum by means of the hremorrhoidal veins, and from the sigmoid flexure and descending colon, and ascends behind the transverse duodenum and pancreas, to terminate in the splenic vein. Its haemorrhoidal branches inosculate with branches of the internal iliac vein, and thus establish a communication between the portal and general venous system. The Superior mesenteric vein is formed by branches which collect