LINING MEMBRANE OF THE VENTRICLES. 423 of Sylvius; and heloic by a layer of pia mater and arachnoid, called the valve of the arachnoid. It is by rupture of this latter that a com- munication is established between the ventricles of the brain and the sub-arachnoidean space. Within the fourth ventricle and lying against the uvula and tonsils are two small vascular fringes formed by the pia mater, the choroid plea;uses of the fourth ventricle. The fourth ven- tricle is lined by grey matter derived from the interior of the spinal cord, the grey matter being partly concealed by a thin expansion of white substance. LINING MEMBRANE OF THE VENTRICLES. The lining membrane of the ventricles is a serous layer distinct from the arachnoid; it lines the whole of the interior of the lateral ventri- cles, and is connected above and below with the attached border of the choroid plexus, so as to exclude all communication between the ventri- cles and the exterior of the brain. From the lateral ventricles it is re- flected through the foramen of Monro on each side, into the third ven- tricle, which it invests throughout. From the third it is conducted into the fourth ventricle, through the iter a tertio ad quartum ventri- culum, and lines its interior, together with a layer of pia mater which forms its inferior boundary. In this manner a perfect communication is established between all the ventricles, with the exception of the fifth, which has its own proper membrane. It is this membrane which gives them their polished surface, and transudes the secretion which moistens their interior. When the fluid accumulates to an unnatural degree, it may then break down this layer and the layer of pia mater at the bottom of the fourth ventricle, and thus make its way into the sub- arachnoidean space; but in the normal condition it is doubtful whether a communication exists between the interior of the ventricles and the serous ca\*ity of the sub-arachnoidean space. CEREBELLUM. The Cerebellum (figs. 143, 144, 145), seven times smaller than the cerebrum, is situated beneath the posterior lobes of the latter, being lodged in the posterior fossa of the base of the cranium, and protected from the superincumbent pressure of the cerebrum by the tentorium cerebelli. Like the cerebrum, it is composed of grey and white sub- stance, the former occupying the surface, the latter the interior, and its surface is formed of parallel lamellae separated by sulci, and here and there by deeper sulci. In form, the cerebellum is oblong and flatten- ed, its greater diameter being from side to side, its two surfaces look- ing upwards and downwards, and its borders being anterior, posterior, and lateral. In consideration of its shape the cerebellum admits of a division into two hemispheres, into certain prominences termed pro-