68 GROWTH OF TEBTH. The cavity of reserve, which has been previously elongated by the upward movement of the first permanent molar, now dilates into the cavity which that tooth has just quitted ; a papilla is developed fi’ora its fundus, the cavity becomes constricted, and the dental sac of the second molar tooth is formed, still leaving a portion of the great cavity of reserve in connection with the superficial side of the sac. As the jaws continue to grow in length, the second permanent dental sac descends from its elevated position and advances forwards into the dental range, following the same curve with the first permanent molar. The remainder of the cavity of reserve, already lengthened backwards by the previous position of the second molar, again dilates for the last time, developes a papilla and sac in the same manner with the preceding, and forms the third permanent molar or wisdom tooth, which at the age of nineteen or twenty, upon the increased growth of the jaw, follows the course of the first and second molars into the dental range. From a consideration of the foregoing phenomena, Mr. Goodsir has divided the process of dentition into three natural stages;—1. folli- cular ; 2, saccular ; 3. eruptive. The first, or follicidar stage, he makes to include all the changes which take place from the first appearance of the dental groove and papdlse to the closure of their follicles; occupying a period which extends from the sixth week to the fourth or fifth month of intra-uterine existence. The second, or saccular stage, comprises the period Avhen the follicles are shut sacs, and the included papillae pulps ; it commences at the fourth and fifth months of intra-uterine existence, and terminates, for the median incisors, at the seventh or eighth month of infantine life, and for the wisdom teeth, at about the twenty-first year. The third, or eruptive stage, includes the completion of the teeth, the eruption and shedding of the temporary set, the eruption of the permanent, and the necessary changes in the alveolar processes. It extends from the seventh month till the twenty-first year, “ The anterior permanent molar," says Mr. Goodsir, “ is the most remarkable tooth in man, as it forms a transition between the milk and the permanent set.” If considered anatomically, i. e. in its de- velopment from the primitive dental groove, by a papilla and follicle, “ it is decidedly a milk tooth if physiologically, “ as the most efficient grinder in the adult mouth, we must consider it a permanent tooth.” “ It is a curious circumstance, and one which will readily suggest itself to the surgeon, that laying out of view the wisdom teeth, which sometimes decay at an early period from other causes, the anterior molars are the permanent teeth which most frequently give way first, and in the most sjunmetrical manner, and at the same time, and frequently before the milk set.” Growth of Teeth.—Immediately that the dental follicles have been closed by their opercula, the pulps become moulded into the fonn of the future teeth ; and the bases of the molars are divided into two or three portions representing the future fangs. The dental sac is com-