140 RADIO-ULNAR ARTICULATION. The internal lateral ligament is in relation posteriorly with the ulnar nerves The eodernal lateral ligament is a strong and narrow band, which descends from the external condyle of the humerus, to be inserted into the orbicular ligament, and into the ridge on the ulna with which the posterior part of the latter ligament is connected. This ligament is closely united with the tendon of origin of the supinator brevis muscle. The synovial membrane is extensive, and is reflected from the carti- laginous surfaces of the hones upon the inner surface of the ligaments. It surrounds inferiorly the head of the radius, and forms an articulat- ing sac between it and the lesser sigmoid notch. The muscles immediately surrounding, and in contact with, the elbow joint are, in front, the brachialis anticus ; to the irnier side, the pronator radii teres, flexor sublimis digitorum, and flexor carpi ulnaris; eocternally, the extensor carpi radialis brevior, extensor communis digitorum, extensor carpi ulnaris, anconeus, and supinator brevis; and behind, the triceps. Actions.—The movements of the elbow joint areflexion and extefision, which are performed with remarkable precision. The extent to which these movements are capable of being effected, is limited, in front b}’' the coronoid process, and behind by the olecranon. 6. The Radio-ulnar Articulation.—The radius and ulna are firmly held together by ligaments which are connected with both extremities of the bones, and with the shaft; they are, the Orbicular, Anterior inferior. Oblique, Posterior inferior. Interosseous, Interarticular fibro-cartilage. The orbicular ligament {annidar, coronary) is a firm band several lines in breadth, which surrounds the head of the radius, and is at- tached by each end to the extremities of the lesser sigmoid cavity. It is strongest behind where it receives the external lateral ligament, and is lined on its inner surface by a reflection of the synovial mem- brane of the elbow joint. The rupture of this ligament permits of the dislocation of the head of the radius. The oblique ligament (called also ligamentiun teres, in contradistinc- tion to the interosseous ligament) is a narrow slip of ligamentous fibres, descending obliquely from the base of the coronoid process of the ulna to the inner side of the radius, a little below its tuberosity. The interosseous ligament is a broad and thin plane of aponeurotic fibres passing obliquely downwards from the sharp ridge on the radius to that on the ulna. It is deficient superiorlj% is broader in the middle than at each extremity, and is perforated at its lower part for the pas- sage of the*anterior interosseous artery. The posterior interosseous artery passes backwards between the oblique ligament and the upper