201 FOURTH LAYER. The s^plenius colli is inserted into the posterior tubercles of the transverse processes of the three or four upper cervical vertebrEe, Relations.—By its supeificial surface with the trapezius, sterno- mastbid, levator anguli scapulte, rhomboideus minor ;md major, and serratus posticus superior. By its deep sivrface with the spinalis dorsi, longissimus dorsi, semi-spinalis colli, complexus, trachelo-mastoid, and transversalis colli. The tendons of insertion of the splenius colli are interposed between the insertions of the levator anguli scapulm in front, and the transversalis colli behind. The splenii of opposite sides of the neck leave between them a trian- gular interval, in which the complexus is seen. Fourth Layer. Dissection.—The two serrati and two splenii muscles must be re- moved by cutting them away from their origins and insertions, to bring the fourth layer into view. Three of these muscles, viz. sacro-lumbalis, longissimus dorsi, and spinalis dorsi, are associated under the name of erector spinse. They occupy the lumbar and dorsal portion of the back. The remaining four are situated in the cervical region. The Sacro-lumbalis and longissimus dorsi arise by a common origin from the posterior third of the crest of the ilium, from the pos- terior surface of the sacrum, and from the lumbar vertebrse ; opposite the last rib a line of separation begins to be perceptible between the two muscles. The sacro-lumhalis is inserted by separate tendons into the angles of the six lower ribs. On turning the muscle a little out- wards, a number of tendinous slips will be seen taking their origin from the ribs, and terminating in a muscular fasciculus, by which the sacro-lumbalis is prolonged to tbe upper part of the thorax. This is the musculus accessorius ad sacro-hinibalem; it arises from the angles of the six lower ribs, and is inserted by separate tendons into the tingles of the six upper ribs. The longissimus dorsi is inserted into all the ribs, between their tubercles and angles. The Spinalis dorsi arises from the spinous processes of the two upper lumbar and two lower dorsal vertebrse, and is inserted into the spinous processes of all the upper dorsal vertebrse ; the two muscles form an ellipse, which appears to enclose the spinous processes of all the dorsal vertebrse. Relations,—The erector spinse muscle is in relation by its super- ficial surface (in the lumbar region) with the conjoined aponeurosis of the transversalis and internal oblique muscle, which separates it from the aponeurosis of the senutus posticus inferior, and longissimus dorsi; (in the dorsal region) with the vertebral aponeurosis, which separates it from the latissimus dorsi, trapezius, and serratus posticus superior, and with the splenius. By its deej) surface (in the lumbar