LACHRYMAL CANALS. 511 • globe of the eye, and the superior and external rectus; and by its anterior border with the broad tarsal ligament. By its posterior border it receives its vessels and nerves. The palpebral portion, smaller than the preceding, is situated in the upper eyelid, extending downwards to the superior margin of the tarsal cartilage. It is con- tinuous with the orbital portion above, and is enclosed in an invest- ment of dense fibrous membrane. The secretion of the lachrymal gland is conveyed away by from eight to twelve small ducts which run for a short distance beneath the conjunctiva, and open upon its surface by a series of pores, about one-twentieth of an inch apart, situated in a curved line a little above the upper border of the tarsal cartilage. Lachrymal canals.—The lachrymal canals commence at the minute openings, puncta lachr}Tualia, seen upon the lachrymal papillae of the lids at the outer extremity of the lacus lachrymalis, and proceed in- wards to the lachrymal sac, where they terminate beneath a valvular : semilunar fold of the lining membrane of the sac. The superior duct at first ascends, and then turns suddenly inwards towards the sac, forming an abrupt angle. The inferior duct forms the same kind of angle, by descending at first, and then turning abruptly inwards. They are dense and elastic in structure, and remain constantly open, s so that they act like capillary tubes in absorbing the tears from the f surface of the eye. The two fasciculi of the tensor tarsi muscle are i: inserted into these ducts, and serve to draw them inwards. The Lachrymal sac is the upper extremity of the nasal duct, and is >. scarcely more dilated than the rest of the canal. It is lodged in the .groove of the lachrj'mal bone, and is often distinguished, internally, t from the nasal duct, by a semilunar or circular valve. The sac consists of mucous membrane, but is covered in and retained in its place by a fibrous expansion, derived from the tendon of the orbicularis, - which is inserted into the ridge on the lachrymal bone; it is also covered by the tensor tarsi muscle, which arises from the same ridge, and in its action upon the lachrymal canals may serve to compress the -achrjmal sac. The Nasal duct is a short canal about three quarters of an inch in eength, directed downwards, backwards, and a little outwards to the .nferior meatus of the nose, where it terminates by an expanded orifice, tit is lined by mucous membrane, which is continuous with the con- uunctiva above, and with the pituitary membrane of the nose below. I Ibstruction, from inflammation and suppuration of this duct, constitutes :he disease called fistula lachrymalis. Vessels and nerves.—The lachrymal gland is supplied with blood by lie lachrymal branch of the ophthalmic artery, and with nerves by the ichrymal branch of the ophthalmic and orbital branch of the superior axillary.