142 CARPAL ARTICULATIONS. phoid bone. The radial artery rests on this ligament as it passes backwards to the first metacarpal space. The synovial membrane of the wrist joint lines the under surface of the radius and interarticular cartilage above, and the first row of bones of the carpus below. The rdations of the wrist joint are the flexor and exten- sor tendons by which it is sur- rounded, and the radial and ulnar arterj\ Aetions.—The movements of the wrist joint are flexion^ ex- tension, adduction,, abduction, and circumduction. In these motions the articular surfaces glide upon each other. 8. Articulations between the Carpal Bones.—These are am- phi-arthrodial joints, with the exception of the conjoined head of the os magnum and unci- forme, which is received into a cup formed by the scaphoid, semilunar, and cuneiform bone, and constitutes an enarthrosis. The ligaments are, Dorsal, Palmar, Interosseous fibro-cartilage. Anterior annular. The dorsal ligaments are ligamentous bands, that pass * The ligaments of the anterior aspect of the wrist and hand. 1. TTie lower part of the interosseous membrane. 2. The anterior inferior radio-ulnar liga- ment. 3. The anterior ligament of the wrist joint. 4. Its external lateral liga^ ment. 5. Its internal lateral ligament. 6. The palmar ligaments of the carpus. 7. The pisiform bone, with its ligaments. 8. The ligaments connecting the second range of carpal bones with the metacarpal, and the metacarpal with each other. 9. The capsular ligament of the carpo-metacarpal articulation of the thumb. 10. Anterior ligament of the metacarpo-phalangeal articulation of the thumb. 11. One of the lateral ligaments of that articulation. 12. Anterior ligament of the metacarpo-phalangeal articulation of the index finger; this ligament has been removed in the other fingers. 13. Lateral ligaments of the same articulation; the corresponding ligaments are seen in the other articu- lations. 14. Transverse ligament connecting the heads of the metacarpal bones of the index and middle fingers; the same ligament is seen between the other fingers. 15. Anterior and one lateral ligament of the phalangeal articulation of the thumb. 16. Anterior and lateral ligaments of the phalangeal articulations of the index finger; the anterior ligaments are removed in the other fingers, but the lateral ligaments remain.