TARSAL ARTICULATIONS. 155 Dorsal, Plantar, Interosseous. The dorsal ligaments are small fasciculi of parallel fibres, which pass from each bone to all the neighbouring bones with which it articulates. The only dorsal ligaments deserving of particular mention are, the ea:- ternal and posterior calcaneo-astragaloid, which, with the interosseous ligament, complete the articulation of the astragalus with the os calcis; the siiperior and internal calcaneo-evhoid ligaments ; and the superior astragalo-scaplioid ligament. The internal calcaneo-cuboid, and the superior calcaneo-scaphoid ligament, which are closely united poste- riorly in the deep groove which intervenes between the astragalus and os calcis, separate anteriorly to reach their respective bones; they form the principal bond of connection between the first and second range of the bones of the foot. It is the division of this portion of these liga- ments that demands the careful attention of the surgeon in perform- ing Chopart’s operation. The plantar ligaments have the same disposition on the plantar sim- face of the foot ; three of them, however, are of large size, and have especial names, viz. the Calcaneo-scaphoid, Fig- 77.* Long calcrmeo-cuboid. Short calcaneo-cuboid. The inferior calcaneo-scaphoid ligament is a broad and fibro-cartilaginous band of ligament, which passes forwards from the anterior and inner border of the os calcis to the edge of the scaphoid bone. In addition to connecting the os calcis and scaphoid, it supports the astra- galus, and forms part of the cavity in which the rounded head of the latter bone is received. It is lined upon its upper surface by the synovial membrane of the astragalo-scaphoid articulation. The firm connection of the os calcis with the scaphoid bone, and the feebleness of the astra- galo-scaphoid articulation are conditions favor- able to the occasional dislocation of the head of the astragalus. The lory catcaneo-cidjoid, or ligamentum longum plantae., is a long band of ligamentous fibres, which proceeds from the under surface of the os calcis to the rough surface on the under part of the cuboid bone, • A posterior view of the ankle joint. 1. The lower part of the interosseous membrane. 2. The posterior inferior ligament connecting the tibia and fibula. 3. The transverse ligament. 4. The internal lateral ligament. 5. The posterior fasciculus of the external lateral ligament. 6. The middle fasciculus of the ex- ternal lateral ligament. 7. The synovial membrane of the ankle joint. 8. The 08 calcis. I