489 CERVICAL GANGLIA. carotid ple.vus. They also fomi frequently a small gangliform swelling on the under part of the artery, which is called the carotid ganglion. The latter, however, is not constant. The continuation of the carotid plexus onwards with the ai’tery by the side of the sella turcica, is called the cavernous plexus. The carotid plexus is the centre of communication between all the cranial ganglia, and, being derived from the superior cervical ganglion, between the cranial g<inglia and those of the trunk ; it also com- municates with the greater part of the cerebral nerves, and distributes filaments with each of the branches of the internal carotid, which accompany those branches in all their ramifications. Thus, the Ganglion of Ribes is formed by the union of the filaments which accompany the anterior cerebral arteries, and which meet on the anterior communicating artery. The ciliary ganglion communi- cates with the plexus by means of the long branch which is sent back to join it in the cavernous sinus. The spheno-palatine., and with it the naso-pulaiine ganglion, joins the plexus by means of the carotid branch of the Vidian. The submaxillary ganglion is brought into connection with it by means of the otic ganglion, and the otic ganglion by means of the tympanic nerve and the Vidian. It communicates with the third nerve in the cavernous sinus, and through the cUiary ganglion; frequently with the fourth in the forma- tion of the nerve of the tentorium; with the Gasserian ganglion; with the ophthalmic division of the fifth in the cavernous sinus, and by means of the ciliary ganglion ; with the superior maxillary, through the spheno-palatine ganghon; and with the inferior maxillary, through the otic ganglion. It sends two branches directly to the sixth nerve, which unite * with it as it crosses the cavernous sinus ; it communi- cates with the facial and auditory nerves, through the medium of the petrosal branch of the Vidian ; and with the glosso-pharyngeal by means of two filaments to the tympanic nerve. CERVICAL GANGLIA. The Superior cervical ganglion is long and fusiform, of a greyish colour, smooth, and of considerable thickness, extending from within an inch of the carotid foramen in the petrous bone to opposite the lower border of the third cervical vertebra. It is in relation, in front, with the sheath of the internal carotid artery and internal jugular vein ; and, behind, with the rectus anticus major muscle. Its branches, like those of all the sympathetic ganglia in the trank, are divisible into superior, inferior, external, .and internal; to which may be added, as proper to this ganglion, anterior. The superior (carotid nerve) is a single branch which ascends by • Panizza, in his “ Experimental Researches on the Nerves,’ denies this communication, and states veiy vaguely that “ they are merely lost and^ en- twined around it.”—Edinburgh Medical and Surgical Journal, Januaiy 1836.