190 STYLO-I’HARVNGEUS. is bounded on the inner side by the superior constrictor muscle ; on tlie outer side by the internal pterygoid muscle ; and behind by the rectus anticus major and vertebral column. In this space are situated the internal carotid artery, the internal jugular vein, and the glosso-pharyngeal, pneumogastric, spinal accessory, and hypo-glossal nerves. Relations.—By its external surface with the vertebral column and the muscles of the latter, behind ; with the vessels and nerve? con- tained in the inaxillo-pharyngeal space laterally, and with the middle constrictor, stylo-pharyngeus, and tensor palati muscle. By its internal surface with the levator palati, palato-pharyngeus, tonsil, and mucous membrane of the pharynx, the pharyngeal fascia being interposed. The Stylo-pharyngeus is a long and slender muscle arising from the inner side of the base of the styloid process; it descends between the superior and middle con- strictor muscles.and spreads out beneath the mucous membrane of the pharynx, its inferior fibres being in- serted into the posterior bor- der of the thyroid cartilage. Relations.—By its exter- nal surface with the stylo- glossus muscle, external ca- rotid artery, parotid gland, and the middle constrictor. By its interned surface with the internal carotid arterj’, internal jugular vein, supe- rior constrictor, palato-pha- ryngeus, and mucous mem- brane. Along its lower bor- der is seen the glosso- pharyngeal nerve which crosses it, opposite the root of the tongue, to pass between the superior and middle constrictor and behind the hyo- glossus. The palato-pharyngeus is described with the muscles of the soft pa- * A side view of the muscles of the pharynx. 1. The trachea. 2. The cri- coid cartilage. 3. The crico-thyroid membrane. 4. The thyroid cartilage. 5. The thyro-hyoidean membrane. 6. The os hyoides. 7. The stylo-hyoidean ligament. 8. The oesophagus. 9. The inferior constrictor. 10. The middle constrictor. 11. The superior constrictor. 12. The stylo-pharrageus muscle passing down between the superior and middle constrictor. 13. The upper concave border of the superior constrictor; at this point the muscular fibres of the pharynx are deficient. 14. The pterygo-maxillaiy ligament. 15. Tlie buc- cinator muscle. 16. The orbicularis oris. 17. The mylo-hyoideus.