INTERNAL MAXILLARY ARTERY. 307 passes forward immediately above the zygoma, between the two layers of the temporal fascia, and inosculates beneath the orbicularis palpe- brarum with the palpebral arteries. The Anterior auricular arteries are distributed to the anterior por- tion of the pinna. The Middle temporal branch passes through an opening in the tem- poral fascia immediately above the zygoma, and supplies the temporal muscle inoscidating with the deep temporal arteries. 11. The Internal maxillary artery, the other terminal branch of the external carotid, has next to be examined. Dissection.—The Internal maocillary artery passes inwards behind the neck of the lower jaw to the deep structures in the face ; we re- quire, therefore, to remove several parts for the purpose of seeing it completely. To obtain a good view of the vessel, the zygoma should be sawn across in front of the external ear, and the malar bone near the orbit. Turn down the zygomatic arch with the masseter muscle. In doing this, a small artery and nerve will be seen crossing the sigmoid notch of the lower jaw, and entering the masseter muscle (the masseteric). Cut away the tendon of the temporal muscle from its insertion into the coronoid process, and turn it upwards towards its origin; some vessels will be seen entering its under surface ; these are the deep temporal. Then saw the ramus of the jaw across its middle, and dislocate it from its articulation with the temporal bone. Be careful in doing this to carry the blade of the knife close to the bone, lest any branches of nerves should be injured. Next raise this por- tion of bone, and with it the external pterygoid muscle. The artery, together with the deep branches of the inferior maxillflry nerve, will be seen lying on the pterygoid muscles. These are to be carefully freed from fat and areolar tissue, and then examined. This arterj" (fig. 119, No. T2) commences in the substance of the parotid gland, opposite the meatus auditorius extemus; it passes in the first instance horizontally forward behind the neck of the lower jaw; next, curves around the lower border of the external pterygoid muscle near its origin, and ascends obliquely forwards upon the outer side of that muscle; it then passes between the two heads of the external pterj'goid, and enters the pterygo-maxillary fossa. Occasionally it passes between the two pter}'goid muscles, without appearing on the outer surface of the external pterygoid. In consideration of its course, this artery may be divided into three portions : maxillary, pterygoid, and spheno-maxillary. Relations.—The maxillary portion is situated between the ramus of the jaw and the internal lateral ligament, lying parallel with the auri- cular nerve ; the pterygoid portion between the external pterygoid muscle, and the masseter and temporal muscle. The pterygo-Tnaxillary portion lies between the two heads of the external pterygoid muscle, and, in the spheno-maxillary fossa, is in relation with Meckel’s gan- glion.