296 ASCENDING AORTA. AORTA. The AORTA arises from the left ventricle, at the middle of the root of the heart, and opposite the articulation of the fourth costal cartilage with the sternum. At its commencement it presents three dilatations, called the sinus aortici, which correspond with the three semilunar valves. It ascends at first to the right, then curves backwards and to the left, and descends on the left side of the vertebral column to the fourth lumbar vertebra. Hence it is divided into—ascending—arch —and descending aorta. Relations.—The ascending aorta has in relation with it, in front, the trunk of the pulmonary artery, thoracic fascia, and pericardium ; behind, the right pulmonary veins and artery ; to the right side, the Tight auricle and superior cava; and to the left, the left auricle and the trunk of the pulmonary artery. Plan of the Relations of the Ascending Aorta. In Front. Pericardium, Thoracic fascia, Puknonaiy artery. Right Side. Superior cava. Right auricle. Ascending Aorta. Side. Pulmonary arteiy. Left auricle. Behind. Right pulmonary artery. Right pulmonary veins. Arch.—The upper border of the arch of the aorta is parallel \\dth the upper border of the second stemo-costal articulation of the right side in front, and the second dorsal vertebra behind, and terminates opposite the lower border of the third. The anterior surface of the arch is crossed by the left pneumogas- tric nerve, and by the cardiac branches of that nerve and of the sym- pathetic. The posterior surface of the arch is in relation with the bi- furcation of the trachea and great cardiac plexus, the cardiac nerves, left recurrent nerve, and the thoracic duct. The superior border gives off the three great arteries, viz. the iimominata, left carotid, and left subclavian. The inferior border, or concavity of the arch, is in rela- tion with the remains of the ductus arteriosus, the cardiac ganglion and left recurrent nerve, and has passing beneath it the right pulmo- nary artery and left bronchus.