264 ANTERIOR TIBIAL REGION. Fig, 108.* icniarkable, each tendon spreads into a broad aponeurosis over the first phalanx; this aponeurosis divides into three slips, the middle one is inserted into the base of the second phalanx, and the two lateral slips are continued onwards, to be inserted into the base of the third. Relations.—By its anterior surface., with the deep fascia of the leg and foot, and with the anterior annular liga- ment. By its posterior surface with the interosseous membrane, fibula, ankle-joint, extensor brevis digitorum which separates its tendons from the tarsus, and with the metatarsus and phalanges. By its inner surface with the tibialis anticus, extensor proprius pollicis, and anterior tibial vessels. By its outer border with the peroneus lon- gus and brevis. The Peroneus tertius (flexor tarsi fibularis) arises from the lower fourth of the fibula, and is inserted into the base of the metatarsal bone of the little toe. Although apparently but a mere division or continuation of the extensor longus digitorum, this muscle ma)"^ be looked upon as analo- gous to the flexor carpi ulnaris of the fore-arm. Sometimes it is altogether wanting. The Extensor proprius pollicis lies between the tibialis anticus and ex- tensor longus digitorum. It arises from the lower two-thirds of the fibula and interosseous membrane. Its tendon passes through a distinct sheath in the annular ligament, and is inserted mio the base of the last phalanx of the great toe. * The muscles of the anterior tibial region. 1. The extensor muscles in- serted into the patella; the number rests on the tendon of the rectus, the rastus intemus and externus are situated one on each side. 2. The subcutaneous sur- face of the tibia. 3. The tibialis anticus. 4. The extensor longus digitorum. 5. The extensor proprius pollicis. 6. The peroneus tertius. 7. The peroneus longus. 8. The peroneus brevis. 9, 9. The borders of the soleus muscle. 10. A part of the inner belly of the gastrocnemius. 11. The extensor brevis digito- rum ; the tendon in front of this number is that of the peroneus tertius; and that behind it, the tendon of the peroneus brevis.