CERVICAL GANGLIA. 490 the^ide of the internal carotid, and divides into two branches ; one lying to the outer, the other to the inner side of that vessel. The two brandies enter the carotid canal, and by tlieir communications with each other and with the petrosal branch of the Vidian, constitute the carotid jdcxus. The inferior or descending branch, sometimes two, is the cord of communication with the middle cervical ganglion. The external branches are numerous, and may be divided into two sets: those which communicate with the glosso-pharyngeal, pneumo- gastric, and hj^oglossal nerves ; and those which communicate with the first three cervical nerves. The internal branches are three in,number : pharyngeal, to assist in forming the pharyngeal plexus ; laryngeal, to join the superior larjii- geal nerve and its branches ; and the superior cardiac nerve, or nervus superficialis cordis. The anterior branches accompany the external carotid arterj’’ with its branches, around which they form intricate plexuses, and here and there small ganglia; they are called, from the softness of their texture, nervi molles, and from their reddish hue, nervi submfi. The Middle cervical ganglion (thyroid ganglion) is of small size, and sometimes altogether wanting. It is situated opposite the fifth cervical vertebra, and rests against the inferior thyroid arterj'. This relation is so constant, as to have induced Haller to name it the \ “ thyroid ganglion.” Its superior branch, or branches, ascend to communicate with the superior cervical ganglion. Its inferior branches descend to join the inferior cervical ganglion ; one of these frequently passes in front of the subclavian artery, the other behind it. Its external branches communicate with the third, fourth, and fifth cervical nerves. Its internal branches are, filaments which accompany the inferior thyroid artery, the inferior thyroid plexus ; and the middle cardiac nerve, nervus cardiacus magnus. The Inferior cervical ganglion (vertebral ganglion) is much larger than the preceding, and is constant in its existence. It is of a semi- lunar form, and is situated upon the base of the transverse process of the seventh cervical vertebra, immediately behind the vertebral artery: hence its title to the designation ’•'‘vertebral ganglion." Its superior branches communicare with the middle cervical gan- glion. The inferior branches pass some before and some behind the sul> clavian artery, to join the first thoracic ganglion. The external branches consist of two sets ; one which communicates with the sixth, seventh, and eighth cerHcal, and first dorsal nen-e, and one which accompanies the vertebral artery along the vertebral