464 BRACHIAL PLEXUS.—BRANCHES. cations the brachial plexus results. The brachial plexus communicates with the cervical plexus by means of a branch sent down from the fourth to the fifth nerve, and by the inferior branch of origin of the phrenic nerve, and also sends filaments of communication to the sym- pathetic. ^le plexus is broad in the neck, narrows as it descends into the axilla, and again enlarges at its lower part where it divides into its terminal branches. Relations.—The brachial plexus is in relation in the neck with the two scaleni muscles, between which its nerves issue; lower doivn it is placed between the clavicle and subclavius muscle above, and the first rib and first serration of the serratus magnus muscle below. In the axilla, it is situated at first to the outer side and then behind the axillary artery, resting by its outer border against the tendon of the subscapularis muscle. At this point it completely surrounds the artery by means of the two cords which are sent off to form the median nerve. Its Branches may be arranged into two groups, humeral and de- scending,— Humeral Branches. Superior muscular. Short thoracic. Long thoracic. Supra-scapular. Subscapular, Inferior muscular. Descending Branches. External cutaneous. Internal cutaneous. Lesser internal cutaneous, Median, Ulnar, Musculo-spiral, Circumflex. The superior Muscular nerves are several large branches which are given off by the fifth cervical nerve above the clavicle; they are, a sub- clavian branch to the subclavius muscle, which usually sends a commu- nicating filament to the phrenic nerve ; a rhomboid branch to the rhom- boidei muscles ; and frequently an angular branch to the levator anguli scapulae. The Short thoradc nerves (anterior) are two in number; they arise from the brachial plexus at a point parallel with the clavicle, and are divisible into an anterior and a posterior branch. The anterior branch passes forwards between the subclavius muscle and the subclavian vein, and is distributed to the pectoralis major muscle, entering it by its costal surface. In its course it sends one or two twigs to the del- toid muscle, and gives off a branch which forms a loop of communica- tion with the posterior branch. The posterior branch passes forward beneath the axillary artery and unites with the communicating branch of the preceding to form a loop, from which numerous filaments are given off to the pectoralis major and pectoralis minor. The Long thoracic nei've (posterior thoracic, external respiratory of Bell) is a long and remarkable branch, which arises from the fourth and fifth cervical nerves, immediately after their escape from the inter-