476 SAPHENOUS NERVES. are distributed to the inteji^ment of the middle and lower part of the thigh and of tlie knee. The most external of these nerves perforates the upper part of the sartorius, communicates with the crural branch of the genito-crural, divides into two branches at about the middle of the thigh, and gives off numerous filaments to the anterior and outer aspect of the limb as far as the patella. The internal nerve perforates the muscle at about its middle, pierces the fascia lata at the lower third of the thigh, descends to the inner condyle, and curves forward to the front of the knee, supplying the integument by many filaments. Besides these, another cutaneous branch derived from the muscular twig to the vastus externus, is found on the outer side of the lower third of the thigh. The Muscular branches are several large twigs which are distributed to the muscles of the anterior aspect of the thigh. One of these is sent to the rectus; one, (which gives off a cutaneous twig to the outer aspect of the thigh), to the vastus externus ; one to the cruraeus, and one large and long branch to the vastus intemus. From the two latter, filaments are distributed to the periosteum and knee-joint. The sartorius receives its supply of nerves from the cutaneous nerves by which it is perforated. The Branch to the femoral sheath is a small nerve which passes in- wards to the sheath of the femoral vessels at the upper part of the ; thigh, and divides into several filaments, which entwine with the fe- moral and profunda vessels. Two of these filaments, one from the front and the other fi^om the posterior part of the sheath, unite to form a small nerve which escapes from the saphenous opening, and passes downwards with the saphenous vein. Other filaments are distributed to the adductor muscles, and communicate with the long saphenous nerve. The Short saphenous nerve (n. cutaneus intemus) inclines inwards to the sheath of the femoral vessels, and divides into a superficial and ; a deep branch. The superficial branch passes downwards along the ! inner border of the sartorius muscle to the lower third of the thigh; it j then pierces the fascia lata, joins the internal saphenous vein, and | accompanies that vessel to the knee-joint, where it terminates by ! communicating with the long saphenous nerve. The deep branch descends on the outer side of the sheath of the femoral vessels, and- crosses the sheath at its lower part to a point opposite the temii- nation of the femoral artery, where it divides into several filaments which constitute a pleoeus by their communication with other nerves. One of these filaments communicates with the descending branch of the obturator nerve, another with the long saphenous nerve, and two or three are distributed to the integument of the internal and posterior aspect of the thigh. The Long saphenous nerve (n. cutaneus intemus longus) inclines inwards to the sheath of the femoral vessels, and entering the sheath, accompanies the femoral artery to the aponeurotic canal formed by the adductor longus and vastus intemus muscles. It then cpiits the