380 GENERAI> ANATOMY OF LYMPHATICS. of the superficial fascia, as in tlie hollow of the ham and groin in the lower extremity, and on the inner side of the arm in the upper extre- mity. The deep lymphaUcs, fewer in number and somewhat larger than the superficial vessels, accompany the deeper veins ; those from the lower parts of the body converging to the numerous glands seated around the iliac veins and inferior vena cava, and terminating in a large trunk situated on the vertebral column, the thoracic duct. From the upper part of the trunk of the body on the left side, and from the left side of the head and neck, they also proceed to the thoracic duct. Those on the right side of the head and neck, right upper extremity, and right side of the thorax, form a distinct duct which terminates at the point of junction of the subclavian with the internal jugular vein on the right side of the root of the neck. The lacteals are the lymphatic vessels of the small intestines ; thej' have received their distinctive appellation from conveying the milk- like product of digestion, the chyle, to the great centre of the l)mpha- tic s}'-stem, the thoracic duct. They are situated in the mesenterj’-, and pass through the numerous mesenteric glands in their course. Lymphatic vessels are very generally distributed through the ani- mal tissues ; there are, nevertheless, certain structures in which they have never been detected; for example, the brain and spinal cord, the eye, bones, cartilages, tendons, the membranes of the ovum, the um- bilical cord, and the placenta. The anastomoses between these vessels are less frequent than between arteries and veins; they are effected by means of vessels of equal size with the vessels which they connect, and no increase of calibre results from their junction. The Ijmphatic vessels are smallest in the neck, larger in the upper extremities, and larger still in the lower limbs. For the purpose of effecting the movement of their fluids in a pro- per direction, lymphatic vessels are furnished with valves, and it is to these that the appearance of constrictions around the cylinders of the vessels, at short distances, is due. Like the valves of veins, the valves of lymphatic vessels are each composed of two semilunar flaps attached bj’- their convex border to the sides of the vessel and free by their concave border. This is the general character of the valves, but, as in veins, there are exceptions in their form and disposition ; sometimes one flap is so small as to be merely rudimentarj', while the other is large in proportion ; sometimes the flap runs all the way round the tube, leaving a central aperture which can only be closed b)^ a contrac- tile power in the valve itself ; and sometimes instead of being circular, the aperture is elliptical, and the arrangement of the flaps like that of the ileo-coecal valve.* These peculiarities are most frequently met with at and near the anastomoses of the lymphatic vessels. The valves occur most numerously near the lymphatic glands; next in frequency they are found in the neck and upper extremities where Mr. Lane, loc. cit.