KNEE JOINT. 14f) tubercle upon the external condyle of the femur to the outer part of the head of the fibula. The short external lateral ligament is an irregular fascicidus situated behind the preceding, arising from the external Fig. 72.* condyle near the origin of the head of the gastrocnemius muscle, and inserted into the posterior part of the head of the fibula. It is firmly connected with the external semilunar fibro-cartilage, and appears principally intended to con- nect that cartilage with the fibula. The long external lateral ligament is covered in by the tendon of the biceps, and has passing beneath it the tendon of origin of the popliteus muscle, and the inferior external articular artery. The true ligaments tvithin the joint are the crucial, transverse, and coro- nary. The anterior, or external crucial liga- ment, arises from the depression upon the head of the tibia in front of the spinous process, and passes upwards and backwards to be inserted into the inner surface of the outer condyle of the femur, as far as its posterior border. It is smaller than the posterior. The posterior, or internal crucial ligament, arises from the depression upon the head of the tibia, behind the spinous process, and passes up- wards and forwards to be inserted into the inner condyle of the femur. This ligament is less oblique and larger than the anterior. The transverse ligament is a small slip of fibres which extends trans- versely from the external semilunar fibro-cartilage, near its anterior extremity, to the anterior convexity of the internal cartilage. The coronary ligaments are the short fibres by which the convex borders of the semilunar cartilages are connected to the head of the tibia, and to the ligaments surrounding the joint. The semilunar fibre-cartilages are two falciform plates of fibro- cartilage, situated around the margin of the head of the tibia, and serving to deepen the surface of articulation for the condyles of the femur. They are thick along their convex border, and thin and sharp along their concave edge. • A posterior view of the ligaments of the knee joint. 1. The fasciculus of the ligamentum posticum Winslowii, which is derived from, 2. the tendon of the semi-membranosus muscle ; the latter is cut short. 3. The process of the tendon which spreads out in the fascia of the popliteus muscle. 4 The process which is sent inwards beneath the internal lateral ligament. 6. The posterior part of the internal lateral ligament. 6. The long external lateral ligament. 7. The short external lateral ligament. 8. The tendon of the popliteus muscle cut short. 9. The postero-superior tibio-fibular ligament.