POSTERIOR SCAPULAR REGIOX. 231 Posterior Scapular Peyton. Supm-spinatus, Teres minor, Infei-spiuatus, Teres major. The SuPRA-SPiNATUS muscle (supra, above; spina, the spine) arises from the whole of the supra-spinous fossa, and is inserted into the uppermost depression on the great tuberosity of the humerus. The tendon of this muscle cannot well be seen until the acromion process is removed. Relations.—By its upper surface with the trapezius, the clavicle, acromion, and coraco-acromial ligament. From the trapezius it is separated by a strong fascia. By its lower surface with the supra- spinous fossa, the supra-scapular vessels and nerve, and the upper part of the shoulder-joint, forming part of the capsular ligament. The IxFRA-spiNATUS (infra, beneath ; spina, the spine) is covered in by a laj^er of tendinous fascia, which must be removed before the fibres of the muscle can be seen, the deltoid muscle having been pre- viously turned do\vn from its scapular origin. It arises from the whole of the infra-spinous fossa, and from the fascia above-mentioned, and is inserted into the middle depression upon the greater tuberosity of the humerus. Relations.—By \ia posterior surf ace with the deltoid, latissimus dorsi, and integument. Bj' its anterior surface with the infra-spinous fossa, superior and dorsal scapular vessels, and shoulder-joint; its tendon being lined by a prolongation from the synovial membrane. By its upper border it is in relation with the spine of the scapula, and by the lotcer mth the teres minor, with which it is closely united. The Teres .minor muscle (teres, round) arises from the middle third of the inferior border of the scapula, and is inserted into the lower de- pression on the great tuberosity of the humerus. The tendons of these three muscles, with that of the subscapularis, are in immediate contact with the shoulder-joint, and fonn part of its ligamentous capsule, thereby preserving the solidity of the articulation. They are there- fore the structures most frequently ruptured in dislocation of the head of the humerus. Relations.—By \isposterior surface with the deltoid, latissimus dorsi, and integument. By its anterior surface with the inferior border, and part of the dorsum of the scapula, the dorsalis scapulae vessels, scapular head of the triceps, and shoulder-joint. By its upper border with the infra-spinatus; and by the lower with the latissimus dorsi, teres major, and long head of the triceps. The Teres .major muscle arises from the lower third of the inferior border of the scapula, encroaching a little on its dorsal aspect, and is inserted into the posterior bicipital ridge. Its tendon lies immediately behind that of the latissimus dorsi, from which it is separated by a synovial membrane. Relations.—By its posterior surface with the latissimus dorsi, sea-