58G VKSSELS AND NERVES OF THE LIVER. branches represent the longitudinal fissure on the left, and the fissure for the gall-bladder on the right side ; the two posterior, the fissure for the ductus venosus on the left, and the fissure for the vena cava on the light side ; and the connecting bar, the transverse fissure. Lobes.—The Itiyld lobe is four or six times larger than the left, from which it is separated, on the concave surface, by the longitudinal fissure, and, on the convex, by the longitudinal ligament. It is marked upon its under surface by the transverse fissure, and by the fissures for the gall-bladder and vena cava; and presents three de- pressions, one, in front, for the curve of the ascending colon, and two, behind, for the right supra-renal capsule and kidney. The Left lobe is small and flattened, convex upon its upper surface, and concave below, where it lies in contact with the anterior surface of the stomach. It is sometimes in contact by its extremity with the upper end of the spleen, and is in relation, by its posterior border, with the cardiac orifice of the stomach and left pneumogastric nerve. The Ijohus quadratus is a quadrilateral lobe situated on the under surface of the right lobe; it is bounded, in front., by the free border of the liver ; behind, by the transverse fissure ; to the right, by the gall- bladder ; and to the left, by the longitudinal fissure. The Lobus Spigelii* is a small triangular lobe, also situated on the under surface of the right lobe; it is bounded, in front, by the trans- verse fissure ; and, on the sides, by the fissures for the ductus venosus and vena cava. The Lobus caudatus is a small tail-like appendage of the lobus Spigelii, from which it runs outwards like a crest into the right lobe, and serves to separate the right extremity of the transverse fissure from the commencement of the fissure for the vena cava. In some persons this lobe is well marked, in others it is small and ill-defined. Reverting to the comparison of the fissures with an -inverted y, it will be observed, that the quadrilateral interval, in front of the trans- verse bar, represents the lobus quadratus ; the triangular space behind the bar, the lobus Spigelii; and the apex of the letter, the point of union between the inferior vena cava and the remains of the ductus venosus. Vessels and Nerves.—The vessels entering into the structure of the liver are also five in number ; they are the Hepatic arter}’-. Portal vein. Hepatic veins. Hepatic ducts. Lymphatics. The Hepatic artery, portal vein, and hepatic duct enter the liver at the tranverse fissure, and ramify through portal canals to every part of * Adrian Spigel, a Belgian physician, professor at Padua after Casserius in 1616. He assigned considerable importance to this little lobe, but it had been described by Sylvius full sixty years before his time.