LEVATOR ANI.—COCCYGEUS. 225 Part of the levator ani may be seen during the dissection of the anal portion of the perineum by removing the fat which surrounds the termination of the rectum in the ischio-rectal fossa. But, to study the entire muscle, a lateral section of the pelvis must be made by sawing through the pubes a little to one side of the symphysis, separating the bones behind at the sacro-iliac symphysis, !vnd turning down the blad- der and rectum. The pelvic fascia is then to be carefully raised, be- ginning at the base of the bladder and proceeding upwards, imtil the whole extent of the muscle is exposed. The Levator ani is a thin plane of muscular fibres, situated on each side of the pelvis. The muscle arises from the inner surface of the os pubis, fi.-om the spine of the ischium, and, between those points, from the angle of division between the obturator and the pelvic fascia. Its fibres descend to be inserted into the extremity of the coccyx, into a fibrous raphd in front of that bone, into the lower part of the rectum, base of the bladder, and prostate gland. In the female this muscle is inserted into the coccyx and fibrous raphe, lower part of the rectum, and vagina. Relations.—By its eatemal ov perineal surface., with a thin layer of fascia, by which, and by the obturator fascia, it is separated from the obturator internus muscle ; with the fat in the ischio-rectal fossa, the deep perineal fascia, the sphincter ani, and posteriorly with the gluteus maximus. By its internal or pelvic surface with the pelvic fascia, which separates it from the viscera of the pelvis and from the perito- neum. The CoccYGEUS muscle is a tendino-muscular layer of a triangular form. It arises from the spine of the ischium, and is inserted into the side of the coccyx and lower part of the sacrum. Relations.—By its internal or pelvic surface with the rectum; by its code) nal surface with the lesser and greater sacro-ischiatic ligaments. Female Perineum.—The muscles of the perineum in the female are the same as in the male, and have received analogous names. They are smaller in size, and are modified to suit the different form of the organs ; they are— Constrictor vaginae. Erector clitoridis, Transversus perinei, Compressor urethrae, Sphincter ani. Levator ani, Coccygeus. The Constrictor vaginae is analogous to the acceleratores urinm; it is I continuous posteriorly witli the sphincter ani, interlacing with its fibres, and is inserted anteriorly into the sides of the corpora cavernosa, and i fascia of the clitoris.