SACRUM. 18 from that point towards the extremities of the column; hence im- perfection of the bodies occurs either in the upper or lower ver- tebrae. Attachment of Mmcles. — To the atlas are attached ten pairs of muscles; the longus colli, rectus anticus minor, rectus lateralis, rectus posticus minor, obliquus superior and inferior, splenius colli, levator anguli scapulae, first interspinales, and first intertransversales. To the axis are attached twelve pairs; viz. the longus colli, inter- transversales, obliquus inferior, rectus posticus major, supraspinalis, interspinales, semi-spinalis colli, multifidus spinae, levator anguli sca- pulae, splenius colli, transversalis colli, and scalenus posticus. To the remaining vertebra collectively, thirty-three pairs; y\z. pos- teriorly, the trapezius, latissimus dorsi, levator anguli scapulae, rhomboi- deus minor and major, serratus posticus superior and inferior, splenius, sacro-lumbalis, longissimus dorsi, spinalis dorsi, cervicalis ascendens, transversalis colli, trachelo-mastoideus, complexus, semi-spinalis dorsi and colli, multifidus spinae, supraspinalis, interspinales, intertransver- sales, levatores costarum; anteriorly, the rectus anticus major, longias colli, scalenus anticus and posticus, psoas magnus, psoas parvus, quad- ratus lumborum, diaphragm, obliquus internus and transversalis. The Sacrum is a triangular bone, situated at the lower extremitj'- of the vertebral column, and formed by the consolidation of five false vertebrae. It is divisible into an anterior and posterior surface, two lateral and a superior border, and an inferior extremity. The anterior surface is concave, and marked by four transverse lines, which indicate its original constitution of five separate pieces. At the extremities of these lines, on each side, are the four anterior sacral foramina, which diminish in size from above downwards, and transmit the anterior sacral nerves. The projection of the superior piece is the sacro-vertebral angle or promontory. The posterior surface is narrower than the anterior and convex. Upon the middle line is a rough crest formed by the rudiments of four spinous processes, the fifth remaining undeveloped and exposing the lower termination of the sacral canal. Immediately external to and parallel with the median crest, is a range of five small tubercles which represent the posterior tranverse processes of the true vertebrae; beyond these is a shallow groove in which the four posterior sacral foramina open, and-farther outwards, a range of five tubercles corresponding with the anterior or costal transverse processes of the lumbar vertebra;. The lowest pair of the posterior transverse tubercles bound on each side the termination of the sacral canal, and send each a process down- wards to articulate with the coccyx. The two descending processes are the sacral cornua. The posterior sacral foramina are smaller than the anterior, and transmit the posterior sacral nerves. Of the anterior transverse tubercles the j^rs/coiTesponds with the angle of the superior border of the bone ; the second is small, and enters into the formation