151 KNEE JOINT. The alar ligaments are two fringed folds of synovial membrane, extending from the ligamentum mucosum, along the edges of the mass of fat to the sides of the patella. The synovial membrane of the knee joint is by far the most exten- sive in the skeleton. It invests the cartilaginous surfaces of the con- dyles of the femur, of the head of tibia, and of the inner surface of the patella; it covers both surfaces of the semilunar fibro-cartilages, and is reflected upon the crucial liga- ments, and upon the inner surface of the ligaments which form the cir- cumference of the joint. On each side of the patella, it lines the ten- dinous aponeuroses of the vastus in- temus and vastus extemus muscles, and forms a pouch of considerable size between the extensor tendon and the front of the femur. It also forms the folds in the interior of the joint, called “ligamentum mucosum,” and “ligamenta alaria.” The superior pouch of the synovial membrane is supported and raised during the movements of the limb by a small muscle, the subcrureus, which is inserted into it. Between the ligamentum patellae and the synovial membrane is a considerable mass of fat, which presses the membrane towards the interior of the joint, and occupies the fossa between the two con- dyles. • A longitudinal section of the left knee joint, shewing the reflections of its synovial membrane. 1. The cancellous structure of the lower part of the femur. 2. The tendon of the extensor muscles of the leg. 3. The patella. 4. The ligamentum patellae. 5. The cancellous structure of the head of the tibia. 6. A bursa situated between the ligamentum patellae and the head of the tibia. 7. The mass of fat projecting into the cavity of the joint below the patella. * * The synovial membrane. 8. Tlie pouch of synovial membrane which ascends between the tendon of the extensor muscles of the leg, and the front of the lower extremity of the femur. 9. One of the alar ligaments ; the other has been removed with the opposite section. 10. The ligamentum mucosum left entire ; the section being made to its inner side. 11. The ante- rior or external crucial ligament. 12. The posterior ligament. Tlie scheme of the synovial membrane, which is here presented to the student, is divested of all unnecessary complications. It may be traced from the sacculus (at 8l, along the inner surface of the patella; then over the adipose mass (7) from which it throws off the mucous ligament (10); then over the head of the tibia, forming a sheath to the crucial ligaments; then upwai'ds along the posterior ligament and condyles of the femui’, to the sacculus whence its examination commenced.