97 FEMUR. side of the internal condyle is rough and concave, for the attachment of the posterior cnicial ligament. Development.—'Qyjive centres; one for Fig.i2.* the shaft, one for each extremity, and one for each trochanter. The femur is the first of the long bones to shew signs of ossifica- tion. In it, ossific matter is found imme- diately after the maxillae and before the ter- mination of the second month of embryonic life. The secondary deposits take place in the following order,—in the condyloid ex- tremity during the last month of foetal life t; in the head towards the end of the first year; in the greater trochanter between the third and the fourth year; in the lesser trochanter between the thirteenth and fourteenth. The epiphyses and apophyses are joined to the diaphysis in the reverse order of their appearance, the junction commencing after puberty and not being completed for the condyloid epiphysis until after the twentieth year. Articulations.— With three bones ; with the os innominatum, tibia, and patella. Attachment of Muscles.—To twenty-three; by the greater trochanter, to the gluteus me- dius and minimus, pyriformis, gemellus su- perior, obturator intemus, gemellus inferior, obturator extemus, and quadratus femoris; by the lesser trochanter, to the common ten- don of the psoas and iliacus. By the linea aspera, its outer lip, to the vastus extemus, gluteus maximus, and short head of the bi- ceps; by its inner lip, to the vastus inter- nus, pectineus, adductor brevis, and adduc- tor longus; by its middle to the adductor magnus; by the anterior part of the bone, to the cruREus and subcruraeus; by its con- dyles, to the gastrocnemius, plantaris, and popliteus. • A diagram of tho posterior aspect of the right femur, shewing the lines of attachment of the muscles. The muscles attached to tho inner lip are,—p, the pectineus; a b, the adductor brevis ; and a I, the adductor longus. The middle portion is occupied for its whole extent by a m, the adductor magnus; and is continuous superiorly with q f, the linea quadrati, into which the quadratus femoris is inserted. The outer lip is occupied by g m, the gluteus maximus ; and b, the short head of the biceps. t Cruveilheir remarks that this centre is so constant in tho last fortnight of fetal life, that it may be regarded as an important proof of the fetus having reached its full term. n