52G OIIUAN OF TOUCH. its anterior part. They are conical and filiform in shape, and many of them are pierced at the extremity by a minute aperture. Hence, the)' may be regarded as follicles rather than sentient organs; the true sentient papillae being extremely minute and occupying their surface, as they do that of the other papillae of the tongue. The Papilla: fungiformes (p. capitatae) are irregularly dispersed over the dorsum of the tongue, and are easily recognised among the other papillm by their rounded heads and larger size. A number of these papillae will generally be observed at the tip of the tongue. Behind the papillae circurnvallatae, at the root of the tongue, are a number of mucous glands, which open upon the surface. They have been improperly described as papillae by some authors. Vessels and Nerves.—The tongue is abundantly supplied with blood by the lingual arteries. The Nerves are three in number, and of large size : The gustatory branch of the fifth, which is distributed to the papillae, and is the nerve of common sensation and taste. The glosso-pharyngecd, which is dis- tributed to the mucous membrane, follicles, and glands of the tongue, is a nerve of sensation and motion; it also serves to associate the tongue with the pharynx and larynx. The hypoglossal is the motor nerve of the tongue, and is distributed to the muscles. To these may be added the chorda tympani, which conveys a motor influence from the facial nerve to the lingualis muscle. The Mucous membrane which invests the tongue, is continuous 1 with the derma along the margin of the lips. On either side of the i fraenum linguae it may be traced through the sublingual ducts into i the sublingual glands, and along Wharton’s* ducts into the sub- ! maxillary glands : from the sides of the cheeks it passes through the j openings of Stenon’s + ducts to the parotid glands : in the fauces, it forms the assemblage of follicles called tonsils, and may thence be traced downwards into the larynx and pharynx, where it is continuous with the general gastro-pulmonary mucous membrane. Beneath the mucous membrane of the mouth are a number of small gla:idular granules, which pour their secretion upon the surface. A considerable number of them are situated within the lips, in the ■ palate, and in the floor of the mouth. They are named from the position which they may chance to occupy, labial, palatal glands, &c. ORGAN OF TOUCH. The Skin is the exterior investment of the body, which it serves to cover and protect. It is continuous at the apertures of the internal * Thomas Wharton, an English physician, devoted considerable attention to the anatomy of the various glands; his work, entitled “Adenographia,” <fcc. was published in 1666. t Nicholas Stenon, a Danish anatomist: he was made professor in Copen- hagen in 1672. i