355 ANTERIOR TIBIAL ARTERY. Plan of the relatio?is of the Popliteal Arteiy. Inner Side. Semi-membranosus, Internal condyle, Gastrocnemius. SuperflciaUi/. Semi-membranosus, Popliteal nerve. Popliteal vein. Gastrocnemius, Plantaris, Soleus. Outer Side. Biceps, External condyle. Gastrocnemius, Plantaris, Soleus. Deeply. Femur, Ligamentum posticum Winslowii, Popliteal fascia. Popliteal artery. Bratiches.—The branches of the popliteal artery, are the Superior external articular, Superior internal articular, Azygos articular. Inferior external articular. Inferior internal articular. Sural. The Superior articular arteries; eoctemal and internal, wind around the femur, immediately above the condyles, to the front of the knee- joint, anastomosing with each other, with the external circumflex, the anastomotica magna, the inferior articular, and the recurrent of the anterior tibial. The external passes beneath the tendon of the biceps, and the internal through an arched opening beneath the tendon of the adductor magnus. They supply the knee-joint and the lower part of the femur. The Azygos articular artery pierces the posterior ligament of the joint, the ligamentum posticum Winslowii, and supplies the synovial ; membrane in its interior. There are, frequently, several posterior ar- rticular arteries. The Inferior articular arteries wind around the head of the tibia ^immediately below the joint, and anastomose with each other, the :3uperior articular arteries, and the recurrent of the anterior tibial. The external passes beneath the two external lateral ligaments of the oint, and the internal beneath the internal lateral ligament. Thej-^ uupply the knee-joint and the heads of the tibia and fibula. The Sural arteries (sura, the calf) are two large muscular branches, vhich are distributed to tlie two heads of the gastrocnemius muscle. -INTERIOR TIBIAL ARTERY. The anterior tibial artery passes forwards between the two heads f the tibialis posticus muscle, and through the opening in the upper