157 METATARSO-PHALANGEAL ARTICULATIONS. The dorsal ligaments connect the metatarsal to the tarsal hones, and the metatarsal bones with each other. The precise arrangement of these ligaments is of little importance, but it may be remarked, that the base of the second metatarsal bone, articulating with the three cuneiform bones, receives a ligamentous slip from each, while the rest articulating with a single tai’sal bone receive only a single tarsal slip. The plantar ligaments have the same disposition on the plantar surface. The interosseous ligaments are situated between the bases of the metatarsal bones of the four lesser toes ; and also between the bases of the second and third metatarsal bones and the internal and external cunei- form bones. The metatarsal bone of the second toe is implanted by its base between the internal and external cuneiform bones, and is the most strongly articulated of all the meta- tarsal bones. This disposition must be recollected in amputation at the tarso-meta- tarsal articulation. The synovial membranes of this articula- tion are three in number: one for the meta- tarsal bone of the great toe; one for the second and third metatarsal bones, which is continuous with the great tarsal synovial membrane; and one for the fourth and fifth metatarsal bones. Actions.—The movements of the meta- tarsal bones upon the tarsal, and upon each other are very slight; they are such only as contribute to the strength of the foot, by permitting a certain degree of yielding to opposing forces. 7. Metatarso-phalangeal Articulation.— The ligaments of this articulation, like those of the articulation be- tween the first phalanges and metacarpal bones of the hand, are, * The ligaments of the sole of the foot. 1. The os calcis. 2. The astra- galus. 3. The tuberosity of the scaphoid bone. 4. The long calcaneo-cuboid ligament. 5. Part of the short calcaneo-cuboid ligament. 6. The calcaneo- scaphoid ligament. 7. The plantar tarsal ligaments. 8, 8. The tendon of the peroneus longus muscle. 9, 9. Plantar tarso-metatarsal ligaments. 10. Plan- tar ligament of the metatarso-phalangeal articulation of the great toe; the same ligament is seen upon the other toes. 11. Lateral ligaments of the metatarso-phalangeal articulation. 12. Transverse ligament. 13. The lateral ligaments of the phalanges of the great toe ; the same ligaments are seen upon the other toes.