478 SACRAL NERVES.—SACRAL I’LE.XUS. The Lumuo-sacral nerve.—The anterior division of the fiftli lumbar nerve, conjoined with a branch from the fourth, constitutes the lumbo-sacral nerve, which descends over the base of tlie sacrum into the pelvis, and assists in forming the sacral plexus. sacral nerves. There are six pairs of sacral nerves ; the first four escape from the vertebral canal through the sacral foramina, and the last two between the sacrum and coccyx. The po.sterior sacral nerves are very small and diminish in size from above downwards ; they communicate with each other immediately after their escape from the posterior sacral foramina, and divide into external and internal branches. The ex- ternal branches pierce the gluteus maximus, to which they give fila- ments, and are distributed to the integument of the posterior part of the gluteal region (n. cutanei clunium posteriores). The internal sup- ply the integument over the sacriun and coccyx. The anterior sacral nerves diminish in size from above downwards; the first is large, and unites with the lumbo-sacral nerve; the second, of equal size, unites with the preceding ; the third, which is scarcely one-fourth so large as the second, also joins with the preceding nerves in the formation of the sacral plexus. The fourth anterior sacral nerve is about one-third the size of the preceding sacral nerve ; it divides into several branches, one of which is sent to the sacral plexus, a second to join the fifth sacral nerve, a third to the viscera of the pelvis commu- nicating with the hypogastric plexus, and a fourth to the coccygeus muscle, and to the integument around the anus. The fifth anterior sacral nerve presents about half the size of the fourth ; it divides into two branches, one of which commimicates with the fourth, the other with the sixth. The siocth sacral nerve (coccygeal) is very small; it gives off an ascending filament which is continuous with the commu- nicating branch of the fifth, and a descending filament which passes downwards by the side of the coccyx, and traverses the fibres of the great sacro-ischiatic ligament to be distributed to the gluteus maximus and to the integument. All the anterior sacral nerves receive branches from the sacral ganglia of the sympathetic at their emergence firom the sacral foramina. SACRAL PLEXUS. The Sacral plexus is formed by the lumbo-sacral, and by the ante- rior branches of the four upper sacral nerves. The plexus is tri- angular in form, the base corresponding with the whole length of the sacrum, and the apex with the lower part of the great ischiatic fora- men. It is in relation behind with the pyriformis muscle and in fi'ont wth the pelvic fascia, which latter separates it from the branches of the internal iliac artery, and from the viscera of the pelvis.