34 TEMPORAL BONE. opening, the carotid foramen, the commencement of the carotid canal, which lodges the internal carotid artery and the carotid plexus. And between the stylo-mastoid and carotid foramen, in the posterior border, is an irregular excavation forming part of the jugular fossa for the commencement of the internal jugular vein. The proportion of the jugular fossa formed by the petrous portion of the temporal bone is very different in different bones; but in all, the fossa presents a vertical ridge on its inner side, which cuts off a small portion from the rest. The upper part of this ridge forms a spinous projection, which is called jupidar process, the groove to the inner side of the ridge lodges the eighth pair of nerves, and the lower part of the ridge is the septum of division between the jugular fossa and the carotid foramen. Upon this portion of the ridge near the posterior margin of the carotid foramen is a small opening leading into a canal, which transmits the tympanic branch (Jacobson’s nerve) of the glossopharyngeal nerve. Between the jugular fossa and the stylo-mastoid foramen is another small opening leading into the canal for the passage of the auricular branch of the pneumogastric nerve. Borders.—The superior border is sharp, and gives attachment to the tentorium cerebelli. It is grooved for the superior petrosal sinus, and near its extremity is mai’ked by a smooth notch upon which reclines the fifth nerve. The anterior border is grooved for the Eustachian tube, and forms the posterior boundary of the foramen lacerum basis cranii; by its sharp extremity it gives attachment to the tensor tympani and levator palati muscles. The posterior border is grooved for the inferior petro- sal sinus, and excavated for the jugular fossa; it forms the anterior boundary of the foramen lacerum posterius. Development.—By five centres; one for the squamous portion, one for the mastoid process, one for the petrous portion, one for the audi- tory process, which in the fcetus is a mere bony ring, incomplete supe- riorly, and serving for the attachment of the membrana tympani, anmdus memh-anm tympani; and one for the styloid process. Ossifi- cation occurs in these pieces in the following order: in the squamous portion immediately after the vertebrae, then in tlie petrous, tympanic, mastoid, and styloid. The tympanic ring is united by its extremities to the squamous portion during the last month of intra-uterine life; the squamous, petrous, and mastoid portions are consolidated during the first year ; and the styloid some years after birth. It not unfrequently happens that the latter remains permanently separate, or is prolonged by a series of pieces to the os hyoides, and so completes the hyoid arch. The subsequent changes in the bone are the increase of size of the glenoid fossa, the growth of the meatus auditorius extemus, the level- ling of the surfaces of the petrous portion, and the development of mastoid cells. Traces of the union of the petrous with the squamous portion of the bone are usually perceptible in the adult. Articulations.—With five bones : occipital, parietal, sphenoid, in- ferior maxillary, and malar.