534 SUDORIPAROUS GLANDS. Ihe Sudoriparous glands are situated deeply in the corium and also in the subcutaneous areolar tissue, where they are surrounded by adipose cells. They are small, oblong bodies, composed of one or more convoluted tubuli, or of a congeries of globular sacs, which open into a common efferent duct. The latter ascends from the gland through the derma and epiderma, and terminates on the surface by a funnel-shaped and oblique aperture or pore. The efferent duct presents some variety in its course upwards; thus within the derma it is curved and ser- pentine, and if the epiderma be thin, it proceeds more or less directly to the excreting pore. Sometimes it is spirally curved within the derma, and having passed the latter, is regularly and beautifully spiral in its passage through the epiderma, the last turn forming an oblique and valvular opening on the surface. The spiral course of the duct is especially remarkable in the thick epiderma of the palm of the hand and sole of the foot. On those parts of the skin where the papillae are irregularly distributed, the efferent ducts of the sudoriparous glands open on the surface also irregularly, while on the palmar and plantar surfaces of the hands and feet, the pores are situated at regular dis- tances along the ridges, at points corresponding -with the intervals of the small, square-shaped, clumps of papillae. Indeed the apertures of the pores, seen upon the surface of the epidermal ridges, give rise to the appearance of small transverse furrows, which intersect the ridges from point to point. The efferent duct and the component sacs and tubuli of the sudori- parous gland are lined by an inflection of tbe epiderma. This inflec- tion is thick and infundibiliform in the upper stratum of the derma, but soon becomes uniform and soft. The infundibiliform projection is drawn out from the duct when the epiderma is removed, and may be perceived on the under surface of the latter as a nipple-shaped cone. A good view of the sudoriferous ducts is obtained % gently separating the epiderma of a portion of decomposing skin; or they may be better seen by scalding a piece of skin, and then withdrawing the epiderma from the derma. In both cases it is the lining sheath of epiderma which is drawn out from the duct.