PERONEAL ARTERY. 361 I J J U ii i I t 4 f i ■f %■ The Peroneal artery is given oif from the' posterior tibial at about two inches below the lower border of the popliteus muscle ; it is nearly as large as the anterior tibial artery, and passes obliquely out- wards to the fibula. It then runs downwards along the inner border of the fibula to its lower third, Avhere it divides into the anterior and posterior peroneal artery. Relations.—The peroneal artery rests upon the tibialis posticus muscle, and is covered in bj* the soleus, the intermuscular fascia, and the fiexor longus pollicis, having the fibula to its outer side. Plan of the relations of the Peroneal Arter)\ In Front. Soleus, Intermuscular fascia, Flexor longus pollicis. Outer Side. Fibula. Peroneal Artery. Behind. Tibialis posticus. Branches.—The branches of the peroneal artery are, muscular to the neighbouring muscles, particularly to the soleus, and the two terminal branches anterior and posterior peroneal. The Anterior peroneal pierces the interosseous membrane at the lower third of the leg, and is distributed on the front of the outer malleolus, anastomosing with the external malleolar and tarsal artery. This branch is very variable in size. The Posterior peroneal continues onwards along the posterior aspect of the outer malleolus to the side of the os calcis, to which and to the muscles arising from it, it distributes external calcanean branches. It anastomoses with the anterior peroneal, tarsal, external plantar, and posterior tibial artery. The Nutritious artery of the tibia arises from the trunk of the tibial, frequently above the origin of the peroneal, and proceeds to the nutritious canal, which it traverses obliquely from below upwards. The Muscular branches of the posterior tibial artery are distributed to the soleus and to the deep muscles on the posterior aspect of the leg. One of these branches is deserving of notice, a recurrent branch, which arises from the posterior tibial above the origin of the peroneal ■ their origin. The two inferior are in relation with the popliteus muscle. . 10. The anterior tibial artery passing through the angular interspace between : the two heads of the tibialis posticus muscle. 11. The posterior tibial artery. ■ 12. The relative position of the tendons and artery at the inner ankle from ' within outwards, previously to their passing beneath the internal annular liga- rment. 13. The peroneal artery, dividing, a little bdlow the number, into two branches •, the anterior peroneal is seen piercing the interosseous membrane. . 14. The posterior peroneal.