333 CCELIAC AXIS. HEPATIC ARTERY. The Phrenic arteries are given off from the anterior part of the aorta as soon as that trunk has passed through the aortic opening. Passing obliquely outwards upon the under surface of the diaphragm, each artery divides into two branches, an internal branchy which runs forwards and inosculates with its fellow of the opposite side in front of the oesophageal opening ; and an external branch, which proceeds outwards towards the great circumference of the muscle, and sends branches to the supra-renal capsules. The phrenic arteries inosculate Avith branches of the internal mammary, inferior intercostal, epigastric, oesophageal, gastric, hepatic, and supra-renal arteries. They are not unfrequently derived from the coeliac axis, or from one of its divisions, and sometimes they give off the supra-renal arteries. The CcELiAc AXIS (*<i<x/a,Tentriculus) is the first single trunk given off from the abdominal aorta. It arises opposite the upper border of the first lumbar vertebra, is about half an inch in length, and divides into three large branches, gastric, hepatic, and splenic. Relations.—The trunk of the coeliac axis has in relation with it, m front the lesser omentum ; on the right side the right semilunar gan- glion and lobus Spigelii of the liver; on the left side the left semilunar ganglion and cardiac portion of the stomach ; and below, the upper border of the pancreas and lesser curve of the stomach. It is com- pletely surrounded by the solar plexus. The Gastric artery (coronaria ventriciili), the smallest,of the three branches of the coeliac axis, ascends between the two layers of the lesser omentum to the cardiac orifice of the stomach, then runs along the lesser curvature to the pylorus, and inosculates with the pyloric branch of the hepatic. It is distributed to the lower extremity of the oesophagus and lesser curve of the stomach, and anastomoses with the oesophageal arteries and vasa brevia of the splenic artery. The Hepatic artery curves forwards, and ascends along the right border of the lesser omentum to the liver, where it divides into two branches (right and left), Avhich enter the transverse fissure, and are distributed along the portal canals to the right and left lobes.* It is in relation in the right border of the lesser omentum, with the ductus communis choledochus and portal vein, and is surrounded by the hepatic plexus of nerves and numerous lymphatics. There are sometimes tAvo hepatic arteries, in which case one is derived from the superior mesenteric artery. The Branches of the hepatic artery are, the Pyloric, Gastro-duodenalis, Cystic. 5 Gastro-epiploica dextra, ( Pancreatico-duodenalis. * For the mode of distribution of the hepatic artery Avithin the liver, see the “ Minute Anatomy” of that organ in the Chapter on the Viscera.