482 POSTERIOR TIBIAL NERVE. 1 he POSTERIOR TIBIAL NERVE is Continued iilong the posterior aspect of the leg from the lower border of the popliteus muscle to the posterior part of the inner ankle, where it divides into the internal and external plantar nerve. In the upper part of its course it lies to the outer side of the posterior tibial artery; it then becomes placed superficially to that vessel, and at the ankle is again situated to its outer side; in the lower third of the leg it lies parallel with the inner border of the tendo Achillis. The Branches of the posterior tibial nerve are three or four musetdar twigs to the deep muscles of the posterior aspect of the leg, the branch to the flexor longus pollicis accompanies the fibular artery; one or two filaments which entwine around the artery and then terminate in the integument ;* and two or three plantar cutaneous branches which pass downwards upon the inner side of the os calcis and are distributed to the integument of the heel. The Internal plantar nerve, larger than the external, crosses the posterior tibial vessels to enter the sole of the foot, and becomes placed between the adductor pollicis and flexor brevis digitorum; it then enters the sheath of the latter muscle, and divides opposite the bases of the metatarsal bones into three digital branches; one to supply the adjacent sides of the great and second toe; the second the adjacent sides of the second and third toe ; and the third the corresponding sides of the third and fourth toe. This distribution is precisely similar to that of the digital branches of the median nerve. In its course the internal plantar nerve gives off cutaneous branches to the integument of the inner side and sole of the foot; muscular branches to the muscles forming the inner and middle group of the sole ; a digital branch to the inner border of the great toe; and arti- cular branches to the articulations of the tarsal and metatarsal bones. The External plantar nerve, the smaller of the two, follows the course of the external plantar artery to the outer border of the inusculus accessorius, beneath which it sends several branches to supply the adductor pollicis and the articulations of the tarsal and metatarsal bojies. It then gives branches to the integument of the outer border and sole of the foot, and sends forward two digital branches to supply the little toe and half the next. The Peroneal nerve is one half smaller than the popliteal; it passes downwards by the side of the tendon of the biceps, crossing the inner head of the gastrocnemius and the origin of the soleus, to the neck of the fibula, where it pierces the origin of the peroneus longus * It is extremely interesting in a physiological point of view, to observe the mode of distribution of these filaments. I have traced them in relation with several, and-1 have no doubt that they exist in connection with all the superfi- cial arteries. They seem to be the direct momtors to the arterj' of the presence or approach of danger.