169 OCULAR GROUP. the same time, by means of its osseous attachment, the integument and lids inwards towards the nose. The corrugatores superciliorum draw the eyebrows downwards and inwards, and produce the vertical wrinkles of the forehead. The tensor tarsi, or lachrymal muscle, draws the extremities of the lachrjTiial canals inwards, so as to place the puncta in the best position for receiving the tears. It serves also to keep the lids in relation with the surface of the eye, and compresses the lachrymal sac. Dr. Homer is acquainted with two persons who have the voluntary power of drawing the lids inwards by these muscles so as to bury the pimcta in the angle of the eye. 3. Ocular group.—Levator palpebrae. Rectus superior. Rectus inferior. Rectus internus. Rectus externus, Obliquus superior, Obliquus inferior. Dissection.—To open the orbit (the calvarium and brain having been removed) the frontal bone must be sawn through at the inner extremity of the orbital ridge ; and, externally, at its outer extremity. The roof of the orbit may then be comminuted by a few light blows with the hammer; a process easily accomplished, on account of the Fig. 85.* * The muscles of the eyeball; the view is taken from the outer side of the right orbit. 1. A small fragment of that portion of the sphenoid bone through which the optic nerve passes to enter the orbit. 2. The optic nerve. 3. The globe of the eye. 4. The levator palpebrae muscle. 5. The superior oblique muscle. 6. Its cartilaginous pulley. 7. Its reflected tendon. 8. The inferior oblique muscle, the small square knob at its commencement is a piece of its bony origin broken off. 9. The superior rectus. 10. The internal rectus partly concealed by the optic nerve. 11. Part of the external rectus, shewing its two heads of origin, 12. The extremity of the external rectus at its insertion ; the intermediate portion of the muscle having been removed. 13. The inferior rectus. 14. The tunica albuginea, formed by the expansion of the tendons of the four recti.