MALAR BONKS. 45 Articulations.—With nine bones; viz. with two of the cranium, and with all the bones of the face, excepting the inferior maxillary. These are, the frontal and ethmoid; nasal, lachrymal, malar, inferior tmrbinated, palate, vomer, and its fellow of the opposite side. Attachment of Muscles.—To nine: orbicularis palpebrarum, obliquus inferior oculi, levator labii superioris alteque nasi, levator labii supe- rioris proprius, levator anguli oris, compressor nasi, depressor labii superioris alaeque nasi, buccinator, masseter. Fig. 24.* Lachrymal Bones (os unguis, from an imagined resemblance to a finger nail).—The lachrymal is a thin oval-shaped plate of bone, situated at the anterior and inner angle of the orbit. It may be di- vided into an external and internal surface and four borders. The external surface is smooth and marked by a vertical ridge, the lachrymal crest, into two portions, one of which is flat and enters into the formation of the orbit, hence may be called the orbital portion; the other is concave, and lodges the lachrjTnal sac, hence, the lachrymal portion. The crest is expanded interiorly into a hook- shaped process (hamulus lachrymalis), which forms part of the outer boundary of the fossa lachrymalis. The internal surface is uneven, and completes the anterior ethmoid cells; it assists also in forming the wall of the nasal fossae and nasal duct. The four borders articulate with adjoining bones. Development.—By a single centre, appearing in the early part of the third month. Articulations.—With four bones: two of the cranium, frontal and ethmoid; and two of the face, superior maxillary and inferior tur- binated bone. Attachment of Muscles.—To one muscle, the tensor tarsi, and to an expansion of the tendo oculi, the former arising from the orbital sur- face, the other being attached to the lachrymal crest. Malar Bones (mala, the cheek).—The malar (fig. 28) is the strong quadrangular bone which forms the prominence of the cheek. It is divisible into an external and internal surface and four processes, the frontal, orbital, maxillary, and zygomatic. The external surface is * The lachrymal bone of the right side, viewed upon its external or orbital surface. 1. The orbital portion of the bone. 2. The lachrymal portion; the prominent ridge between these two portions is the crest. 3. The lower tenni- nation of the crest, the hamulus lachrymalis. 4. The superior border which articulates with the frontal bone. 5. The posterior border, which articulates with the ethmoid bone. 6. The anterior border, which articulates with the superior maxillary bone. 7. The border which articulates with the inferior turbinated bone.