110 ARTICULATIONS. partly connected by interosseous ligaments, or by the intervention of an elastic fibro-cartilage which adheres to the ends of both bones. Examples of this mode of articulation are seen in the union between the bodies of the vertebra;, of the sacrum with the coccyx, of the pieces of the sternum, the sacro-iliac and pubic symphyses (a-lv (fuuv, to grow together), and, according to some, of the necks of the ribs, with the transverse processes. Diarthrosis (S/a, through, is the movable articulation, which constitutes by far the greater number of the joints of the body. Tbe degree of motion in this class has given rise to a subdivision into three genera. Arthrodia, Ginglymus, and Enarthrosis. Arthrodia is the movable joint in which the extent of motion is slight and. limited, as in the articulations of the clavicle, of the ribs,' articular processes of the vertebrae, axis with the atlas, radius with the ulna, fibula with the tibia, carpal and metacarpal, tarsal and meta- tarsal bones. Ginglymus {ytyyXvfio;, a hinge), or hinge-joint, is the movement of bones upon each other in two directions onlj^ viz. forwards and backwards; but the degree of motion may be very considerable. The instances of this form of joint are numerous; thej^ comprehend the elbow, wrist, metacarpo-phalangeal and phalangeal joints in the upper extremity ; and the knee, ankle, metatarso-phdangeal and phalangeal joints in the lower extremity. The lower jaw may also be admitted into this category, as partaking more of the character of the hinge- joint than of the less movable arthrodia. The form of the ginglymoid joint is somewhat quadrilateral, and each of its four sides is provided with a ligament, which is named from its position, anterior, posieiior, internal, or external lateral.. The lateral ligaments are thick and strong, and are the chief bond of union between the bones. The anterior and posterior are thin and loose in order to permit the required extent of movement. Enarthrosis (Iv, in, is the most extensive in its range of motion of all the movable joints. From the manner of connection and form of the bones in this articulation, it is called the ball and socket joint. There are two instances in the body, viz. the hip and the shoulder. I have been in the habit of adding to the preceding the carpo-meta- carpal articulation of the thumb, although not strictly a ball-and- socket joint, from the great extent of motion which it enjoys, and from the nature of the ligament connecting the bones. As far as the articular surfaces are concerned, it is rather a double than a single ball-and-socket; and the whole of these considerations remove it from the simple arthrodial and gingl5Tnoid groups. The ball-and-socket joint has a circular form ; and, in place of the four distinct, ligaments of the ginglymus, is enclosed in a bag of liga- mentous membrane, called a capsjdar ligament. The kinds of articulation may probably be conveyed in a more sa- tisfactory manner in the tabular form, thus :