211 MUSCLES OF THE ABDOMEN. and inferior, scalenus posticus; sacro-lurabalis, and longissimus dorsi, with their continuations, the cervicalis ascendens and transversalis colli; the levatores costarum, and the obliquus externus abdominis. By their internal surface with the internal intercostals, the intercostal vessels and nerves, and a thin aponeurosis, and posteriorlj’^ with the pleura. The internal intercostals, by their external surface with the external intercostals, and intercostal vessels and nerves; by their in- ternal surface with the pleura costalis, the triangulai-is sterni, and diaphragm. Connected with the internal intercostals are a variable number of muscular fasciculi which pass from the inner surface of one rib near its middle to the next or next but one below; these are the subcostal or more correctly the intracostal micscles. The Triangularis sterni, situated upon the inner wall of the front of the chest, arises by a thin aponeurosis from the side of the sternum, ensiform cartilage, and sternal extremities of the costal car- tilages ; and is inserted by fleshy digitations into the cartilages of the third, fourth, fifth, and sixth ribs, and often into that of the second. ^ Relations.—By its external surface with the sternum, the ensiform cartilage, the costal cartilages, internal intercostal muscles, and in- ternal mammary vessels. By its internal surface with the pleura costalis, the areolar tissue of the anterior mediastinum, and the diaphragm. The lower fibres of the triangularis sterni are continuous with those of the diaphragm. Actions.—The intercostal muscles raise the ribs when they act from above, and depress them when they take their fixed point from below. They are, therefore, both inspiratory and expiratory muscles. The triangularis sterni draws down the costal cartilages, and is therefore an expiratory muscle. MUSCLES OF THE ABDOMEN. The muscles of this region are, the— Obliquus externus (descendens), Obliquus intemus (ascendens). Cremaster, Transversalis, Rectus, Pyramidalis, Quadratus lumborum. Psoas parvus. Diaphragm. Dissection.—The dissection of the abdominal muscles is to be com- menced by making three incisions:—The first, vertical, in the middle