PSOAS. PECTINEUS. 259 culation. By its inner bonier tlie iliacus is in relation with the psoas magnus and crural nerve. The Psoas .mag.vus (ypacc, lumhus, a loin), situated by the side of the vertebral column in the loins, is a long fusifonn muscle. It arises from the intervertebral substances, part of the bodies and bases of the transverse processes, and from a series of tendinous arches, thrown across the constricted portion of the last dorsal and four upper lumbar vertebrm. These arches are intended to protect the lumbar arteries and sympathetic filaments of nerves from pressure in their passage beneath the muscle. From this extensive origin the muscle passes along tlie margin of the brim of the pelvis, and beneath Poupart’s ligament, to its insertion. The tendon of the psoas magnus unites with that of the iliacus, and the conjoined tendon is inserted into the posterior part of the trochanter minor, a bursa being interposed. Relations.—By its anterior surface with the ligamentum arcuatum internum of the diaphragm, the kidney, the psoas parvus, genito-crural nerve, sjunpathetic nerve, its proper fascia, the peritoneum and colon, and along its pelvic border with the common and external iliac arterj' and vein. Bj' its posterior surface with the lumbar vertebrae, the lumbar arteries, quadratus lumborum (from which latter it is separated by the anterior layer of the aponeurosis of the transversalis), and with the crural nerve, which near Poupart’s ligament gets to its outer side. The lumbar plexus of nerves is situated in the substance of the posterior part of the muscle. In the thigh the muscle is in relation with the fascia lata in front; the border of the pelvis and hip-joint, from which it «is separated by the synovial membrane, common to it and the preceding muscle, behind; with the crural nerve, and iliacus : to the outer side; and with the femoral artery, by which it is slightly overlaid, to the inner side. The Pectixeus is a flat and quadrangular muscle ; it arises from ; the pectineal line (pecten, a crest) of the os pubis, and from the sur- face of bone in front of that line. It is imerted into the line leading from the anterior intertrochanteric line to the linea aspera of the : femur. Relations.—By its anterior surface with the pubic portion of the .'.fascia lata, which separates it from the femoral artery and vein and internal saphenous vein, and lower down with the profunda artery. IBy its posterior surface with the capsule of the hip-joint, and with the )obturator externus and adductor brevis, the obturator vessels being rnterposed. By its external border with the psoas, the femoral artery •esting upon the line of interval. By its internal border with the lUter edge of the adductor longus. Obturator hernia is situated lirectly behind this muscle, which forms one of its coverings. The Adductor long us (adducere, to draw to), the most superficial f the three adductors, arises by a round and thick tendon from the • ront surface of the os pubis, immediately below the angle of that bone; irmd, assuming a flattened and expanded form as it descends, is inserted, nto the middle third of the linea aspera.