tarsal articulations. 154 The internal lateral or deltoid ligament is a triangular layer of fibres, attached superiorly by its apex to the internal malleolus, and inferiorly by an expanded base to the astragalus, os calcis, and scaphoid bone. Beneath the superficial layer of this ligament is a much stronger and thicker fasciculus which connects the apex of the internal malleolus with the side of the astragalus. This internal lateral ligament is covered in and partly concealed by the tendon of the tibialis posticus, and at its posterior part is in rela- tion with the tendon of the flexor longus digitorum, and with that of the flexor longus pollicis. The external lateral ligament consists of three strong fasciculi, which proceed from the inner side of the external malleolus, and diverge in three different directions. The anterior fasciculus passes foricards, and is attached to the astragalus; the •posterior, backwards, and is connected with the astragalus posteriorly ; and tlie middle, longer than the other two, descends to be inserted into the outer side of the os calcis. “ It is the strong union of this bone,” saj'^s Sir Astley Cooper, with the tarsal bones, by means of the external lateral ligaments, “ which leads to its being more frequently fractured than dislocated.” The transverse ligament of the tibia and fibula occupies the place of a posterior ligament. It is in relation, hehind, with the posterior tibial vessels and nerve, and with the tendon of the tibialis posticus muscle ; and in front, with the ex- tra-s}^novial adipose tissue, and sjmo'sdal membrane. The Synovial membrane invests the cartilaginous surfaces of the tibia and fibula (sending a duplicature upwards between their lower ends), and the upper surface and two sides of the astragalus. It is then re- flected upon the anterior and lateral ligaments, and upon the transverse ligament posteriorly. Aetions.—The movements of the ankle-joint are flexion mA extension only, without lateral motion. 5. Articulation of the Tarsal Bones.—The ligaments which connect the seven bones of the tarsus to each other are of three kinds,— * An external view of the ankle joint. 1. The tibia. 2. Tlie external malleolus of the fibula. 3, 3. The astragalus. 4. The os calcis. 5. The cu- boid bone. 6. Tlie anterior fasciculus of the external lateral ligament attached to the astragalus. 7. Its middle fasciculus, attached to the os calcis. 8. Its posterior fasciculus, attached to the astra^us. 9. The anterior ligament of the ankle. Fig 76.*