513 MEATUS AUDITORIUS. gill of the fibro-cartilage of the tragus to the helix, and completes the meatus. The proper Muscles of the pinna are the— Major helicis, Minor helicis, Tragicus, Antitragicus, Transversus auriculae. The Major helicis is a narrow band of muscular fibres situated upon the anterior border of the helix, just above the tragus. The Minor helicis is placed upon the posterior border of the helix, at its commencement in the fossa of the concha. The Tragicus is a thin quadrilateral layer of muscular fibres, situated upon the tragus. The Antitragicus arises from the antitragus, and is inserted into the posterior extremity, or processus caudatus of the helix. The Transversus auriculae^ partly tendinous and partly muscular, extends transversely from the convexity of the concha to that of the helix, on the posterior surface of the pinna. These muscles are rudimentary in the human ear, and deserve only the title of muscles in the ears of animals. Two other muscles are described by Mr. Tod,* the obliquus auris and contractor meatus, or trago-helicus. The Meatus auditorius is a canal, partly cartilaginous and partly osseous, about an inch in length, which extends inwards and a little forwards from the concha to the tjnnpanum. It is narrower in the middle than at each extremity, forms an oval cylinder, the long dia- meter being vertical, and is slightly curved upon itself, the concavity looking do%vnwards. It is lined by an extremely thin pouch of epithelium, which, when • withdrawn after maceration, preserves the form of the meatus. Some > stiff short hairs are also found in its interior, which stretch across the ; tube, and prevent the ingress of insects and dust. In the substance ■ of its lining membrane are a number of ceruminous glands, which secrete •■■the wax of the ear. Vessels and Nerves.—The pinna is plentifully supplied with artene^; !' by the anterior auricular from the temporal, and by the posterior auri- ;ular from the external carotid. Its Nerves are derived from the anterior auricular of the fifth, the ■ josterior auricular of the facial, and the auricularis magnus of the cer- ■ ical plexus. * “ The Anatomy and Physiology of the Organ of Hearing,” by David Tod, • 832. n L