538 KIGIIT AUKICLE. {Superior cava, Inferior cava, Coronary vein, Foramina Thebesii, Auriculo-ventricular opening. ^ Eustachian valve, ( Coronary valve. 5 Annulus ovalis, ( Fossa ovalis. 5 ,Tuberculum Loweri, ( Musculi pectinati. The Superior cava returns the blood from the upper half of the body, and opens into the upper and front part of the auricle. The Inferior cava returns the blood from the lower half of the body, and opens through the lower and posterior wall, close to the partition between the auricles (septum auricularum). The direction of these two vessels is such, that a stream forced through the superior cava would be directed towards the auriculo-ventricular opening. In like manner, a stream rushing upwards by the inferior cava would force its current against the septum auricularum ; this is the proper direction of the two currents during foetal life. The Coronary vein returns the venous blood from the substance of the heart; it opens into the auricle between the inferior cava and the auriculo-ventricular opening, under cover of the coronary valve. The Foramina Tlwbesii* are minute pore-like openings, by which the venous blood exudes directly from the muscular structure of the heart into the auricle, without entering the venous current. These openings are also found in the left auricle, and in the right and left ventricles. The Auriculo-ventriaular opening is the large opening of communica- tion between the auricle and ventricle. The Eustachian^ valve is a part of the apparatus of foetal circulation, and serves to direct the placental blood from the inferior cava, through the foramen ovale into the left auricle. In the adult it is a mere ves- tige and imperfect, though sometimes it remains of large size. It is formed by a fold of the lining membrane of the auricle, containing some muscular fibres, is situated between the aperture of the inferior cava and the auriculo-ventricidar opening, and is generally connected with the coronary valve. The Coronary valve is a semilunar fold of the lining membrane, * Adam Christian Thebesius. His discovery of the openings now known by his name is contained in his “Dissertatio Medica de Circulo Sanguinis in Corde,” 1708. t Bartholomew Eustachius, bom at San Severino, in Naples, was Professor of Medicine in Borne, where he died in 1570. He was one of the foundere of modern anatomy, and the first who illustrated his works with good engravings on copper. Openings Valves Relicts of foetal structure Structure of the auricle .