MEIBOMIAN GLANDS. 509 tubercle; and at the apex of each papilla a small orifice (punctum lachrymale), the commencement of the lachrymal canal. The eyelids have, entering into their structure, integument, orhicur laris muscle, tarsal cartilages. Meibomian glands, and conjunctiva. The tegumentary areohir tissue of the eyelids is remarkable for its looseness and for the absence of adipose substance ; it is particularly liable to serous infiltration. The fibres of the orbiculai-is muscle cover- ing the eyelids, are extremely thin and pale. The Tarsal cartilages are two thin lamellse of fibro-cartilage about an inch in length, which give form and support to the eyelids. The superior is of a semilunar form, about one-third of an inch in breadth at its middle, and tapering to each extremity. Its lower border is broad and flat, its upper is thin, and gives attachment to the levator palpebKE and to the fibrous membrane of the lids. The Inferior fibro-cartilage is an elliptical band, narrower than the superior, and situated in the substance of the lower lid. Its upper border is flat, and corresponds with the flat edge of the upper cartilage. The lower is held in its place by the fibrous membrane. Near the inner canthus the tarsal cartilages terminate, at the commencement of the lacus lachrymalis, and are attached to the margin of the orbit by the tendo oculi. At their outer extremity they terminate at a short distance firom the angle of the canthus, and are retained in their posi- tion by means of a decussation of the fibrous structure of the broad tarsal ligament, called the external palpebral ligament. The Fibrous membrane of the lids is firmly attached to the perios- teum, around the margin of the orbit, by its circumference, and to the tarsal cartilages by its central margin. It is thick and dense on the outer half of the orbit, but becomes thin to its inner side. Its use is to retain the tarsal cartilages in their place, and give support to the lids ; hence it has been named the broad tarsal ligament. The Meibomian glands* are embedded in the internal surface of the cartilages, and are very distinctly seen on examining the inner aspect of the lids. They have the appearance of parallel strings of pearls, about thirty in number in the upper cartilage, and somewhat fewer in the lower; and open by minute foramina on the edges of the lids. They correspond in length with the breadth of the cartilage, and are consequently longer in the upper than in the lower lid. Each gland consists of a single lengthened follicle or tube, into which a number of small clustered follicles open ; the latter are so numerous as almost to conceal the tube by which the secretion is poured out upon the margin of the lids. Occasionally an arch is formed between two of them, and produces a very graceful appearance. The edges of the eyelids are furnished with a triple row of long thick hairs, which curve upwards from the upper lid, and downwards from the lower, so that they may not interlace with each other in the closure of the eyelids, and prove an impediment to the opening of the • Henry Meibomius, “de Vasia Palpebrarum Novis,” 1666.