52 TABLE OF DEVELOPMENTS, ARTICULATIONS, ETC. Articulations.—With the glenoid fossae of the two temporal bones, through the medium of a fibro-cartilage. Attachment of Muscles.—To fourteen pairs: by the external surface, commencing at the symphysis and proceeding outwards, — levator labii inferioris, depressor labii inferioris, depressor anguli oris, pla- tysma myoides, buccinator, and masseter ; by the intemd surface, also commencing at the symphysis, the genio-hyo-glossus, genio-hyoideus, mylo-hyoideus, digastricus, superior constrictor, temporal, external pterygoid, and internal pterygoid. Table shewing the Points of Development, Articulations, and Attach- ment of Muscles, of the Bones of the Head. Development. Attachment of Articulations. Muscles. Occipital . 7 6 . 13 pairs. Parietal , I 5 . 1 muscle. Frontal 2 12 . 2 pairs. Temporal . 5 5 14 muscles. Sphenoid . 12 12 . 12 pairs. Ethmoid . 3 13 . none. Nasal 1 4 . none. Superior maxillary 4 9 . 9 muscles. Lachrymal . 1 4 1 ib. Malar 1 4 . 5 ib. Palate 1 6 4 ib. Inferior turbinated 1 4 . none. Vomer 1 6 . none. Lower jaw 2 2 . 14 pairs. SUTURES. The bones of the cranium and face are connected with each other by means of sutures {sutura, a seam), of which there are four principal vai’ieties,—r-serrated, squamous, harmonia, and schindylesis. The serrated suture is formed by the union of two borders possessing serrated edges, as in the coronal, sagittal, and lambdoid sutures. In these sutures the serrations are formed almost wholly by the extemd table, the edges of the internal table lying merelj' in apposition. The squamous suture {squama, a scale) is formed by the overlapping of the bevelled edges of two contiguous bones, as in the articulation between the temporal and the lower border of the parietal. In this suture the approximated surfaces are roughened, so as to adhere me- chanically with each other. The harmonia suture {a^uv, to adapt) is the simple apposition of contiguous* surfaces, the surfaces being more or less rough and reten- tive. This suture is seen in the connection between the superior maxillary bones, or of the palate processes of the palate bones with each other.