434 SPINAL CORD, SPINAL CORD. The dissection of the spinal cord requires that the spinal column should be opened throughout its entire length by sawing through the laininse of the vertebrae, close to the roots of the transverse processes, and raising the arches with a chisel ; the muscles of the back having been removed as a preliminary step. The Spinal column contains the spinal cord, or medulla spinalis; the roots of the spinal nerves; and the membranes of the cord, viz. the dura mater, arachnoid, pia mater, and memhrana dentuta. The Dura mater spinalis {tli£ca vertehralis) is a cylindrical sheath of fibrous membrane, identical in structure with the dura m.ater of the skull, and continuous with that membrane. At the margin of the occipital foramen it is closely adherent to the bone ; by its anterior surface it is attached to the posterior common ligament, and below, bv means of its pointed extremity, to the coccyx. In the rest of its extent it is comparatively free, being connected, bj' a very loose areolar tissue only, to the walls of the spinal canal. In this areolar tissue there exists a quantity of reddish, oily, adipose substance, somewhat analogous to the marrow of long bones. On either side and below, the dura mater forms a sheath for each of the spinal nerves, to which it is closely adherent. Upon its inner surface it is smooth, being lined by the arachnoid ; and on its sides maj^ be seen double openings for the two roots of each of the spinal nerves. The Arachnoid is a continuation of the serous membrane of the brain. It encloses the cord very loosely, being connected to it only by long slender filaments* of areolar tissue, and by a longitudinal lamella which is attached to the posterior aspect of the cord. The areolar tissue is most abundant in the cervical region, and diminishes in quan- tity from above downwards ; and the longitudinal lamella is complete only in the dorsal region. The arachnoid passes off from the cord on either side with the spinal nerves, to which it forms a sheath ; and is then reflected on the dura mater, to constitute its serous surface. A connection exists in several situations between the arachnoid of the cord and that of the dura mater. The space between the arachnoid and the spinal cord is identical with that already described as existing between the same parts in the brain, the sub-arachnoidean space. It is occupied by a serous fluid, sufficient in quantity to ex- pand the arachnoid, and fill completely the cavity of the theca verte- bralis. The sub-arachnoidean fluid keeps up a constant and gentle pressure on the entire surface of the brain and spinal cord, and yields with the greatest facility to the various movements of the cord, giving to those delicate structures the advantage of the principles so usefully applied by Dr. Arnott in the hj^drostatic bed. • According to Mr. Rainey these filaments are nervous fasciculi liaving their origin in the arachnoid, and passing to the arteries of tlie cord. See page 411.