I FASCIA LATA.— FEMORAL KING. ^ vessels, and is thence ncamed cnhriform fascia. The crihriform fascia ^ is connected with the sheath of the femoral vessels, and forms one of f the coverings of femoral hernia. When the iliac portion of -the fascia i lata is removed from its attachment to Poupart’s ligament and is t / r l I \ A h turned aside, the sheath of the femoral vessels (the femoral or crural canal) is brought into view ; and if Poupart’s ligament be carefully- divided, the sheath may be isolated, and its continuation with the transversalis and iliac fascia clearly demonstrated. In this view the sheath of the femoral vessels is an infundibiliform continuation of the abdominal fasciae, closely adherent to the vessels a little way down the thigh, but much larger than the vessels it contains at Poupart’s ligament. If the sheath be opened, the artery and vein will be found Ijdng side by side, and occupying the outer two-thirds of the sheath, leaving an infundibiliform interval between the vein and the inner * A section of the structures -which pass beneath the femoral arch. 1. Pou- part’s ligament. 2, 1 The iliac portion of the fascia lata, attached along the mai-gin of the crest of the ilium, and along Poupart’s ligament, as far as the spine of the os pubis (3). 4. The pubic portion of the fascia lata, continuous at 3 with the iliac portion, and passing outwai-ds behind the sheath of the femoral vessels to its outer border at 5, where it divides into two layers; one is conti- nuous with the sheath of the psoas (6), and iliacus (7); the other (8) is lost upon the capsule of the hip-joint (9). 10. The crural nerve enclosed in the sheath of the psoas and iliacus. 11. Gimbemat’s ligament. 12. The femoral ring, within the femoral sheath. 13. The femoral vein. 14. The femoral arteiy; the two vessels and the ring are surrounded by the femoral sheath, and thin septa are sent between the anterior and posterior wall of the sheath, dividing the artery from the vein, and the vein from the femoral ring.