32 TEMPORAL BONE. of the meatus auditorius internus. Above the meatus auditorius in- ternus is a small oblique fissure, and a minute foramen; the former lodges a process of the dura mater, and the foramen gives passage to a small vein. Further outwards, towards the mastoid portion of the bone, is a small slit, almost hidden by a thin plate of bone; this is the aquceductus vestibuli, and transmits a small artery and vein of the ves- tibule and a process of dura mater. Below the meatus, and partly concealed by the margin of the posterior border of the bone, is the aquceductus cocIde<e, through which passes a vein from the cochlea to the internal jugular vein, and a process of dura mater. The meatus auditorius internus is about one-third of an inch in depth, and pursues a slightly oblique course in relation to the petrous portion of the temporal bone, but a course directl}’^ outwards in relation to the cranium. At the bottom of the meatus, and upon its anterior aspect, is a reniform fossa, the concave border of which is directed towards the entrance of the meatus. The reniform fossa Fig. 19.* c A is divided into an upper and lower compartment b}' a sharp ridge, which is prolonged for some distance upon the anterior wall of the meatus, and sometimes as far as its aperture; in either case it marks ♦ A. The reniform fossa of the meatus auditorius internus; right temporal bone. 1. The ridge dividing the reniform fossa into two compartments. 2. The opening of the aquseductus Fallopii. The openings following that of the aquae- ductus Fallopii in a curved direction require no reference. 3. The cluster of three or [four oblique openings on the posterior wall of the meatus. 4. The spirally-grooved base of the cochlea. B. A section of the temporal bone, right side, shewing the curved direction of the meatus auditorius extemus. 1. The edge of the proces-sus auditorius. 2. The groove into which the membrana tympani is inserted. The obliquity of the line from 2 to 3 indicates the oblique termination of the meatus, and the consequent oblique direction of the membrana tympani. 4, 4. The cavity of the tympanum. 5. The opening of the Eustachian tube. 6. Part of the aquse- ductus Fallopii. 7. Part of the carotid canal. c. The annulus membranse tj-mpani or temporal bone of the foetal skull, right side.