410 ARACHNOID MEMBRANE. near its attachment. Cut across the fourth, fifth, sixth, seventh, and eighth nerves in succession with a sharp knife, and pass tlie scalpel as far down as possible into the vertebral canal, to sever the spinal cord, cutting first to one side and then to the other, in order to divide the vertebral arteries and first cervical nerves. Then let him press the cerebellum gently upwards with the fingers of the right hand, the he- mispheres being supported with the left, and the brain will roll into his hand. The Arteries of the dura mater are the anterior meningeal from the ethmoidal, ophthalmic, and internal carotid. The middle meningeal and meningea parva from the internal maxillary. The inferior meningeal from the ascending pharyngeal and occipital arteries; and the posterior meningeal from the vertebral. Its Nerves are derived from the nervi molles and vertebral plexus of the sympathetic, from the Gasserian ganglion, the ophthalmic nerve, and sometimes frpm the fourth. The branches from the two latter are given off while those nerves are situated by the side of the sella tur- cica ; they are recurrent, and pass backwards between the la3*ers of the tentorium, to the lining membrane of the lateral sinus. Purkinje describes a sympathetic plexus of considerable size, as being situated around the vena Galeni at its entrance into the fourth sinus. The filaments from this plexus are distributed to the tentorium. Arachnoid membrane. The Arachnoid u^os, like a spider’s web), so named from its extreme tenuity, is the serous membrane of the cerebro-spinal centre; and, like other serous membranes, a shut sac. It envelopes the brain and spinal cord (visceral layer) and is reflected upon the inner surface of the dura mater (parietal layer), giving to that membrane its serous investment. On the upper surface of the hemispheres the arachnoid is trans- parent, but may be demonstrated as it passes across the sulci from one convolution to another by injecting, with a blow-pipe, a stream of air beneath it. At the base of the brain the membrane is opalescent and thicker than in other situations, and more easily demonstrable from the circumstance of stretching across the interval between the middle lobes of the hemispheres. The space which is included between this layer of membrane and those parts of the base of the brain which are boimded by the optic commissure and fissures of Sylvius in front, and the pons Varolii behind, is tenned the anterior sub-arachnoidean space. Another space formed in a similar manner, between the under part of the cerebellum and the medulla oblongata, is the posterior sub-araclmoi- dean space; and a third space, situated over the corpora quadrigeminii, may be termed the superior suh-arachnoidean space. These spaces communicate freely with each other, the anterior and posterior across the crura cerebelii, the anterior and the superior around the crura cere-