FASCIjE of the upper extremity. ■28 G the compressor uretliraa muscle, Cowper’s glands, the internal pudic and bulbous arteries, and a plexus of veins. Mr. Tyrrell considers the anterior lamella alone as the deep perineal fascia, and the posterior lamella as a distinct layer of fascia covering in a considerable plexus of veins. FASCliE OF THE UPPER EXTREMITY. The superficial fascia of the upper extremity contains between its layers the superficial veins and lymphatics, and the superficial nerves. The deep fascia is thin over the deltoid and pectoralis major muscles, and in the axillary space, but thick upon the dorsiun of the scapula, where it binds down the infra-spinatus muscle. It is attach- ed to the clavicle, acromion process, and spine of the scapida. In the upper arm it is somewhat stronger, and is inserted into the condyloid ridges, forming the intennuscular septa. In the fore-arm it is very strong, and at the bend of the elbow its thickness is augmented by a broad band, which is given off from the inner side of the tendon of the biceps. It is firmly attached to the olecranon process, to the ulna, and to the prominent points about the wrist. Upon the front of the wrist it is continuous with the anterior annular ligament, which is considered by some anatomists to be formed by the deep fascia, but which I am more disposed to regard as a ligament of the wrist. On the posterior aspect of this joint it forms a strong transverse band, the posterior annular ligament, beneath which the tendons of the extensor muscles pass, in distinct sheaths. The attachments of the posterior annular ligament are, the radius on one side, and the ulna and pisi- form bone on the opposite side of the joint. The tendons, as they pass beneath the annular ligaments, are sur- rounded by synovial bursae. The dorsum of the hand is invested by a thin fascia, which is continuous with the posterior annular bga- ment. The palmar fascia is divided into three portions. A central portion, which occupies the middle of the palm, and two lateral portions, w'hich spread out over the sides of the hand, and are continuous -with the dorsal fascia. The central portion is strong and tendinous : it is narrow at the wrist, where it is attached to the annular ligament, and broad over the heads of the metacarpal bones, where it divides into eight slips, which are inserted into the sides of the base of the first phalanx of each finger. The fascia is strengthened at its point of division into slips by strong fasciculi of transverse fibres, and the arched interval left between each pair of slips gives passage to the tendons of the flexor muscles. The arches between the fingers trans- mit the digital vessels and nerves, and lumbricales muscles.