427 BASE OP THE BRAIN. niammillaria. From its centre there projects a small conical body of grey substance, apparently a prolongation of the tuber cinereum, the infurulibulum. The infundibulum is hollow in its interior, enclosing a short coecal canal, which communicates with the cavity of the third ventricle ; and below the termination of the canal, the conical process becomes connected with the pituitary gland. The infundibulum and tuber cinereum form part of the floor of the third ventricle. The Pituitary glatid (hypophysis cerebri), is a small, flattened, red- dish-grey body situated in the sella turcica, and closely retained in that situation by the dura mater and arachnoid. It consists of two lobes, closely pressed together, the anterior lobe being the larger of the two, and oblong in shape, the posterior round. Both lobes are connected with the infundibulum, but the latter is so soft in texture as to be generally torn through in the removal of the brain. Indeed, for the purposes of the student, it is better to effect this separation ■with the knife, and leave the pituitary body in situ, to be examined ■with the base of the cranium. The Corpora albicantia (mammillaria, pisiformia, bulbi fornicis) are two white convex bodies, having the shape and size of peas, situated behind the tuber cinereum, and between the crura cerebri. They are a part of the crura of the fornix, which, after their origin from the thalami optici, descend to the base of the brain, and making a sudden curve upon themselves previously to their ascent to the lateral ventri- cles, constitute the corpora albicantia. When divided by section, these bodies wiU be found to be composed of a capsule of white sub- stance, containing grey matter, the grey matter of the two corpora being connected by means of a commissure. The Locus perforatus is a layer of whitish-grey substance, connected in front with the corpora albicantia, behind with the pons Varolii, and on each side with the crura cerebri, between which it is situated. It is perforated by several thick tufts of arteries, which are distributed to the thalami optici and third ventricle, of which latter it assists in forming the floor. It is sometimes called the pons Tarini. The Crura cerebri are two thick white cords, which issue from the anterior border of the pons Varolii, and diverge to each side to enter the thalami optici. By their outer side the crura cerebri are conti- nuous with the corpora quadrigemina, and, above, they constitute the lower boundary of the aqueduct of Sylvius. In their interior they contain grey matter, which has a semilunar shape when the crus is divided transversely, and has been termed the locus niger. The third nerve will be observed to arise from the inner side of each, and the ■ fourth nerves wind around their outer border from above. The Pons Varolii* (protuberantia anmdaris, nodus encephali), is * Constant Varolins, Professor of Anatomy in Bologna: died in 1578. He dissected the brain in the course of its fibres, beginning from the medulla ob- longata ; a plan which has since been perfected by ■yieussens, and by Gall and ' Spurzheim. The work containing his mode of dissection, “ Do Resolutione ' Corporis Humani,” was published after his death, in 1591.