424 CKRE11ELI.UM. cesses and lobules, and into certain divisions of its substance called lobes, formed upon the hemispheres by the deeper sulci above referred to. The two hemispheres are separated from each other on the upper surface of the cerebellum by a longitudinal ridge which is termed the superior vermiform process and which forms a commissure be- tween them. On the anterior border of the organ there is a semi- lunar notch, incisura cerebelli anterior, which encircles the corpora quadrigemina posteriorly. On the posterior border there is another notch, incisura cerebelli postenor, which receives the upper part of the falx cerebelli; and on the under surface of the cerebellum is a deep fissure corresponding with the medulla oblongata, and termed the valle- cula (valley). Each hemisphere of the cerebellum is divided by means of a fissure (sulcus horizontalis) which runs along its free border, into an upper and a lower portion, and upon each of these portions certain lobes are marked out. Thus on the upper portion there are two such lobes se- parated by a sulcus, somewhat more strongly marked than the rest, and extending deeper into the substance of the cerebellum; they are the lohus superior anterior and lobus superior posterior. Upon the under portion of the hemisphere there are three such lobes, namely, lobus inferior anterior, medius, and posterior, and two additional ones of peculiar form, the lobus inferior intemus or to7isil, and flocctdus. The tonsil (amygdala) is situated on the side of the vallecula, and projects into the fourth ventricle. The flocculus or pneumogastric lobule, long and slender, extends from the side of the vallecula around the corpus restiforme to the crus cerebelli, lying behind the filaments of the eighth pair of nerves. The commissiu’e between the two hemispheres is termed the worm (vermis), that portion of the worm which occupies the upper surface of the cerebellum as far back as the horizontal fissure being the processus vermiformis superior, and that which is lodged within the vallecula being the processus vermiformis inferior. The superior vermiform process is a prominent longitudinal ridge, extending from the incisura anterior to the incisura posterior cerebelli. In imitation of the hemi- spheres, it is divided into lobes, of which three have received names, namely, the lobulus centralis, which is a small lobe situated in the in- cisura anterior ; the inonticulus cerebelli, a longer lobe, having its peak and declivity ; and a small lobe near the incisura posterior, the com- tnissum simplex. The lobes of the inferior vermiform process are four in number, namely,—the commissura brevis, situated in the incisura posterior, below the horizontal fissure; pyramid, a small, obtusely- pointed eminence ; a larger prominence, the uvula, situated between tbe tonsils, and connected with them by means of a commissure; and in front of the uvula, the nodulus. In front of the nodulus is a thin lamina of medullary substance, consisting of a central and ttvo lateral portions, tbe velum medullare posterius (valvula Tarini), and between this velum in front, and the nodulus and u^la behind, is a deep fossa which is known as the stcallow's nest (nidus hirundinis). The velum