406 SPHENO-PALATINE GANGLION. and the external rectus muscle; it is in close contact with the optic nerve, and is surrounded by adipose tissue, which renders its dissection somewhat difficult. Its hrandhes of distribution are the ciliary, which arise from its an- terior angles in two groups: tlie upper group, consisting of about four filaments; and the lower, of five or six. They accompany the ciliary arteries in a waving course, and divide into a number of filaments which pierce the sclerotic around the optic nerve, and supply the tunics of the eye-ball. A small filament is said, by Tiedemann, to ac- company the arteria centralis retinae into the centre of the globe of the eye. Its branches of communication are three, one, the long root, which proceeds from the posterior superior angle to the nacal branch of the ophthalmic nerve; a short thick branch, the short root, from the pos- terior inferior angle to the inferior division of the third nerve; and a slender filament, the sympathetic root, which passes backwards to the cavernous sinus, and communicates with the carotid plexus. Occa- sionally the ciliary ganglion receives also a filament of communication (middle root) from the spheno-palatine ganglion; and it sometimes sends a twig to the abducens nerve. The Spheno-palatine ganglion (Meckel’s) the largest of the cranial ganglia of the sympathetic, is very variable in its dimensions. It is situated in the spheno-maxillary fossa. Its branches are divisible into four groups ; ascending, descending, internal, and posterior. The branches of distribution are the internal and the descending. The internal branches are the nasal and the naso-palatine. The or spheno-palatine nerves, four or five in number, enter the nasal fossa through the spheno-palatine foramen, and are distributed to the mucous membrane of the superior meatus, and superior and middle spongy bones. Besides these, several branches issue through small openings in the palate and sphenoid bone, and supply the mucous membrane of the upper part of the pharynx and the Eustachian tube. The naso-palatine nerve (Scarpa) enters the nasal fossa with the nasal nerves, and crosses the roof of the nares to reach the septum, to which it gives several filaments. It then curves do^vnwards and forwards to the naso-palatine canal, and enters the anterior palatine canal, where it joins with its fellow of the opposite side, and receives filaments from the anterior dental and palatine nerves. By this junction an enlarge- ment is formed, the naso-palatine ganglion (Cloquet’s), which distributes filaments to the mucous membrane of the palate, immediately behind the incisor teeth. The descending branches are the three palatine nerves, anterior, middle, and posterior. The anterior palatine nerve, the largest of the three, descends from the ganglion through the posterior palatine canal, and emerges at the posterior palatine foramen. It then passes forwards in the substance