316 VEllTEBRAL AND BASILAR ARTERIES. rib. The profunda cervicis and superior intercostal frequently en- croach upon the second portion, and not unfrequently a branch or brcunches may be found proceeding from the third portion. The primary branches are five in number, the first three being ascending, and the remaining two descending; they are the— Vertebral, Thyroid axis, Profunda cervicis, Superior intercostal. Internal mammary. {Inferior thyroid, Supra-scapular, Posterior scapular, Superficialis cervicis. The Vertebral artery is the first and the largest of the branches of the subclavian artery ; it ascends through the foramina in the transverse processes of all the cervical vertebrae, excepting the last; then winds backwards around the articulating process of the atlas ; and, piercing the dura mater, enters the skull through the foramen magnum. The two arteries unite at the lower border of the pons Varolii, to form the basilar artery. In the foramina of the transverse processes of the vertebrae the artery lies in front of the cenucal nerves. Dr. John Davy* has observed that, when the vertebral arteries differ in size, the left is generally the larger ; thus in ninety-eight cases he found the left vertebral the larger twenty-six times, and the right only eight. In the same number of cases he found a small band stretching across the cylinder of the basilar artery, near the junction of the two vertebral arteries, seventeen times, and in a few instances a small communicating trunk between the two vertebral arteries previ- ously to their union. I have several times seen this communicating branch, and have a preparation now before me in which it is ex- hibited. The Basilar artery, so named from its position at the base of the brain, runs forwards to the anterior border of the pons Varolii, where it divides into four ultimate branches, two to either side. Brandies.—The branches of the vertebral and basilar arteries are the following:— Vertebral, , Lateral spinal. Posterior meningeal, . Anterior spinal, Posterior spinal, . Inferior cerebellar. Basilar, Transverse, • Superior cerebellar, ■ Posterior cerebral. * Edinburgh Medical and Surgical Journal, 1839.