64 STRUCTURE OF TEETH. and are succeeded ty the permanent hicuspides, which have only two tubercles. Each tooth is divisible into a crown, which is the part apparent above the gum ; a constricted portion around the base of the crown, the neck ; and a root or fang, which is contained within the alveolus. The root is invested by periosteum, which lines the alveolus, and is at the same time adherent to the root of the tooth. The incisor teeth (cutting teeth) are named from presenting a sharp and cutting edge, formed at the expense of the posterior surface. The crown is flattened from before backwards, being somewhat convex in front and concave behind ; the neck is much constricted, and the root compressed from side to side; at its apex is a small opening for the passage of the nerve and artery of the tooth. The canine teeth (cuspidati) ’follow the incisors in order from before backwards; two are situated in the upper jaw, one on each side, and two in the lower. The crown is larger than that of the incisors, con- vex before and concave behind, and tapering to a blunted point. The root is longer than that of all the other teeth, compressed at each side, and marked by a slight groove. The bicuspid teeth (bicuspidati, small molars), two on each side in each jaw, follow the canine, and are intermediate in size between them and the molars. The crown is compressed from before back- wards, and surmounted by two tubercles, one internal, the other ex- ternal ; the neck is oval ; the root compressed, marked on each side by a deep groove, and bifid near its apex. The teeth of the upper jaw have a greater tendency to the division of their roots than those of the lower, and the posterior than the anterior pair. The molar teeth (multicuspidati, grinders), three on each side in each jaw, are the largest of the permanent set. The crown is quadri- lateral, and surmounted by four tubercles, the neck large and round, and the root divided into several fangs. In the upper jaw the first and second molar teeth have three roots, sometimes four, which are more or less widely separated from each other, two of the roots being external, the other internal. In the lower there are but two roots, which are anterior and posterior ; they are flattened from behind for- wards, and grooved so as to mark a tendency to division. The third molars, or dentes sapientiae, are smaller than the other two; they pre- sent three tubercles on the surface of the crown ; and the root is single and grooved, appearing to be made up of four or five fangs compressed together, or partially divided. In the lower jaw the fangs are fre- quently separated to some distance from each other, and much cun*ed, so as to offer considerable resistance in the operation of extraction.* Structure,-—The base of the crown of each tooth is hollowed in its interior into a small cavity which is continuous with a canal passing through the middle of each fang. The cavity and canal, or canals, • See an excellent practical work, “ On the Structure, Economy, and Patho- logy of the Teeth,” by Mr. Lintott.