PORTAL CIRCULATION OF THE KIDNEY. 600 with the uriniferous tubuli, ami is reflected from their sides so as to form around each a cup-like pouch, or calyx. The calices communi- cate with a common cavity of larger size, situated at each extremity, and in the middle of the organ ; and these three cavities, the infun- dibula, constitute by their union the large membranous sac, which occupies the hilus renalis, the pelvis of the kidney. The kidney in the embryo and foetus consists of lobules. See the anatomy of the foetus in the succeeding Chapter. The Ureter, (ou^av, urine, rv^uv, to keep,) the excretory duct of the kidnej", is a membranous tube of about the diameter of a goose-quill, and nearly eighteen inches in length ; it is continuous superiorly with the pelvis of the kidney, and is constricted inferiorly, where it lies in an oblique direction between the muscular and mucous coats of the base of the bladder, ami opens upon its mucous surface. Lying along the posterior wall of the abdomen, it is situated behind the peritoneum, and is crossed by the spermatic vessels; in its course downwards it rests against the anterior surface of the psoas, and crosses the common iliac artery and vein, and then the external iliac vessels. Within the pelvis it crosses the umbilical artery and the vas deferens in the male, and the upper part of the vagina in the female. There are sometimes two ureters to one kidney. The ureter, the pelvis, the infundibula, and the calices are composed of two coats, an external or fibrous coat, the tunica propria; and an internal mucous coat, which is continuous with the mucous membrane of the bladder inferiorly, and with that of the tubuli uriniferi above. Vessels and Nerves,—The renal artery is derived from the aorta; it divides into several large branches before entering the hilus, and with- in the organ ramifies in an arbores- cent manner, terminating in nutrient twigs, and in the small inferent ves- sels of the corpora Malpighiana. In the Malpighian bodies the infe- rent vessels divide into several pri- mary twigs, which subdivide into capillaries, and the capillaries, after forming loops, converge to the efferent vein, which is generally smaller than the corresponding arter3^ The efferent veins proceed to and • Plan of the renal circulation ; copied from Mr. Bowman’s paper, a. A branch of the renal artery giving off several Malpighian twigs. 1. An efferent twig to the capillary tuft contained in the Malpighian body, m-, from the Mal- pighian body the uriniferous tube is seen taking its tortuous course to t. 2, 2. Efferent veins ; that which proceeds from the Malpighian body is seen to bo smaller than the corresponding artery, p, p. The capillary venous plexus, rami- fying upon the uriniferous tube. This plexus receives its blood from the efferent veins, 2, 2, and transmits it to the branch of the renal vein, v. Fig. 187.*