447 AURICULAR NERVE.—ARDUCENTES. the submaxillary ganglion. On the hyo-glossus muscle some branches of coimnunicatiou are sent to the hypoglossal, and in the course of the nerve several small branches to the mucous membrane of the fauces, to the tonsils, submaxillary gland, Wharton’s duct, and sublingual gland. The Inferior dental nerve passes downwards with the inferior dent'll artery, at first between the two pterygoid muscles, and then between the'internal lateral ligament and the ramus of the lower jaw, to the dental foramen. It then runs along the canal in the inferior nuixillary bone, distributing branches (inferior maxillary plexus) to the teeth and gums, and divides into two terminal branches, incisive and mental. The incisive branch passes forwards, to supply the incisive teeth: the imntai branch escapes through the mental foramen, to be distributed to the muscles and integument of the chin and lower lip, and to the mucous membrane of the latter, communicating with the facial nerve. The inferior dental nerve gives off but one branch, the mylo-hyoidean, which leaves the nerve just as it is about to enter the dental foramen. This branch pierces the insertion of the internal lateral ligament, and - descends along a groove in the bone to the inferior surface of the mylo- • hyoid muscle, to which, and to the anterior belly of the digastricus, it is distributed. The Anterior auricular nerve originates by two roots, be- tween which the arteria meningea media takes its course, and passes directly backwards behind the articulation of the lower jaw, against which it rests. In this situation it divides into two branches, which reunite, and form a kind of plexus. From the plexus two branches are given otf—ascending and descending. The ascending or temporal branch sends one or two considerable branches of communication to the facial nerve, and then ascends in front of the ear to the temporal re- gion, upon which it is distributed in company with the branches of the temporal artery. In its course it sends filaments to the temporo-max- illary articulation, to the pinna and meatus of the ear, and to the integu- ment of the temporal region. It communicates on the temple with branches of the facial, supra-orbital, lachrymal, and subcutaneus malm nerve. The descending branch enters the parotid gland, to which it sends numerous branches; it communicates with the inferior dental and auricularis magnus nerve, and supplies the external ear, the meatus auditorius, and the temporo-maxillary articulation ; it also sends one or two filaments into the tympanum. Sixth pair, abducentes.—The abducens nerve, about half the size of the motor oculi, arises by several filaments from the upper constricted part of the corpus pyaiuidale close to the pons Varolii. Proceeding forwards from this origin,'1t lies parallel with the basilar arter}', and, piercing the dura mater upon the clivus Blumenbachii of the sphenoid bone, ascends beneath that membrane to the cavernous sinus. It then runs forwards alon^the inner wall of the sinus below