70 os HYOIDES. and the tooth is quickly drawn upwards by the contraction, leaving a space between the extremity of the unfinished root and the bottom of the socket, in which the growth and completion of the fang is more speedily effected. During the changes which have here been described as taking place among the dental sacs contained within the jaws, the septa between the sacs, which at first were composed of spongy tissue, soon became fibrous, and were afterwards formed of bone, which was developed from the surface and proceeded by degrees more deeply into the jaws, to constitute the alveoli. The sacs of the ten anterior permanent teeth, at first enclosed in the submucous areolar tissue of the deciduous dental sacs, and, received during their growth into crypts situated behind the deciduous teeth, advanced by degrees beneath the fangs of those teeth, and became separated from them by distinct osseous al- veoli. The necks of the sacs of the permanent teeth, by which they originally communicated with the mucous lining of the secondary groove, still exist, in the form of cords, separated from the deciduous teeth by their alveolus, but communicating through a minute osseous canal with the fibrous tissue of the palate, immediately behind the corresponding deciduous teeth. “ These cords and foramina are not obliterated in the child,” says Mr. Goodsir, “ either because the cords are to become useful as ‘ gubernacula' and the canals as ‘ itinera den- tium;'' or, much more probably, in virtue of a law, which appears to be a general one in the development of animal bodies, viz. that parts, or organs, which have onee acted an important part, however atrophied they may afterwards become, yet never altogether disappear, so long as they do not interfere with other parts or functions." Succession.—The periods of appearance of the teeth are extremely irregular; it is necessary, therefore, to have recourse to an average, which, for the temporarj'^ teeth, may be stated as follows, the teeth of the lower jaw preceding those of the upper by a short interval:— 7th month, two middle incisors. 18th month, canine, 9th month, two lateral incisors. 24th month, two last molares. 12th month, first molares. The periods for the permanent teeth are. 6^ year, first molares 7th year, two middle incisors. 8 th year, two lateral incisors, 9 th year, first bicuspides. 10th jmar, second bicuspides. 11th to T2th jmar, canine. 12th to 13th year, second molares. 17 th to 21 St year, last molares. os HYOIDES. The os hyoides forms the second arch developed from the cranium, and gives support to the tongue, and attachment to numerous muscles in the neck. It is named from its resemblance to the Greek letter v, and consists of a central portion or body, of two larger cornua, which