222 MUSCLES OF THE PERINEUJI. which demands some degree of delicacy and nice manipulation, a strong light should he thrown upon the part. Having fixed the subject, and drawn the scrotum upwards by means of a string or hook, carry an incision from the base of the scrotum along the ramus of the pubes and ischium and tuberosity of the ischium, to a point parallel with the apex of the coccyx ; then describe a curve over the coccyx to the same point on the opposite side, and continue the incision onwards along the opposite tuberosity, and along the ramus of the ischium and of the pubes, to the opposite side of the scrotum, where the two extremities may be connected by a transverse incision. This incision will com- pletely surround the perineum, following verj' nearly the outline of its boundaries. Now let the student dissect off the integument carefully from the whole of the included space, and he will expose the fatty areolar structure of the common superficial fascia, which exactly re- sembles the superficial fascia in every other situation. The common superficial fascia is then to be removed to the same extent, exposing the superficial perineal fascia. This layer is also to be turned aside, when the muscles of the genital region of the perineum will be brought into view. The Accelekatores urin.5E (bulbo-cavemosus) arise from a ten- dinous point in the centre of the perineum and from the fibrous raphe of the two muscles. From these origins the fibres diverge, like the plumes of a pen ; the posterior fibres to be inserted into the ramus of the pubes and ischium ; the middle to encircle the corpus spongiosum, and meet upon its upper side ; and the anterior to spread out upon the corpus cavernosum on each side, and be inserted, partly into its fibrous stnicture, and partly into the fascia of the penis. The poste- rior and middle insertions of these muscles are best seen, bj-^ carefully raising one muscle from the corpus spongiosum and tracing its fibres. Relations.—By their superficial surface with the superficial perineal fascia, the dartos, the superficial vessels and nerves of the perineum, and on each side with the erector penis. By their deep surface with the corpus spongiosum and bulb of the urethra. The Erector penis (ischio-cavemosus) arises from the ramus and tuberosity of the ischium, and curves around the root of the penis, to be inserted into the upper surface of the corpus cavernosum, where it is continuous with a strong fascia which covers the dorsum of the organ, the fascia penis. Relations.—By its superficial srirface with the superficial perineal fascia, the dartos, and the superficial perineal vessels and nerve. By its deep surface with the corpus cavernosum penis. The Compressor urethra (Wilson’s tund Guthrie’s muscles), consists of two portions ; one of which is transverse in its direction, and passes inwards, to embrace the membranous urethra ; the other is perpendicular., and descends from the pubes. The transverse portion, particularly described by Mr. Guthrie, arises by a naiTow tendinous point, from the upper part of the ramus of the ischium, on each side, and divides into two fasciculi, which pass inwards and slightly up-