OCULAR GROUP. 171 The Rectus Externus (abductor), the longest of the straight muscles, arises by two distinct heads, one from the common tendon, the other with the origin of the superior rectus from the margin of the optic foramen; the nasal, third, and sixth nerves passing between its heads. It is inserted into the outer surface of the globe of the eye at a little more than two lines from the margin of the cornea. Relations.—Bj' its internal surface with the third, the nasal, the sixth, and the optic nerve, the ciliary ganglion and nerves, the oph- thalmic artery and vein, the adipose tissue of the orbit, the inferior oblique muscle, and the eyeball. By its external surface with the pe- riosteum of the orbit; and by the uj^per border with the lachrymal vessels and nerr'e and the lachrymal gland. The recti muscles present several characters which are common to all; thus, they are thin, have each the form of an isosceles triangle, bear’ the same relation to the globe of the eye, and are inserted in a similar manner into the sclerotica, at about two lines from the circum- ference of the cornea. The points of difference relate to thickness and length; the internal rectus is the thickest and shortest, the external rectus the longest of the four, and the superior rectus the most thin. The insertion of the four recti muscles into the globe of the eye forms a tendinous expansion, which is continued as far as the margin of the cornea, and is called the tunica albuginea. The Obliquus Superior (trochleaids) is a fusiform muscle arising from the margin of the optic foramen, and from the fibrous sheath of the optic nerve; it passes forwards to the pulley beneath the internal angular process of the frontal bone; its tendon is then reflected be- neath the superior rectus muscle, to the outer and posterior part of the globe of the eye, where it is inserted into the sclerotic coat, near the entrance of the optic nerve. The tendon is surrounded by a synovial membrane, while passing through the cartilaginous pulley. Relations.—By its superior surface with the fourth nerve, the supra- trochlear nerve, and with the periosteum of the orbit. By the in- ferior surface with the adipose tissue of the orbit, the upper border of the internal rectus and the vessels and nerves in relation with that border. The Obliquus Inferior, a thin and narrow muscle, arises from the inner margin of the superior maxillary bone, immediately external to the lachrymal groove, and passes beneath the inferior rectus, to be inserted into the outer and posterior part of the eyeball, at about two lines from the entrance of the optic nerve. Relations.—By its superior surface with the inferior rectus muscle and with the eyeball; and by the inferior surface with the periosteum of the floor of the orbit, and the external rectus muscle. According to Mr. Ferrall" the muscles of the orbit are separated from the globe of the eyeball and from the structures immediately surrounding the optic nerve, by a distinct fascia, which is continuous * In a paper read before the Royal Society, on the 10th of June, 1841.