180 PLATVSMA MYOIDES, 3. Elevators of the os hyoides and larynx. Digastricus, Stylo-hyoideus, Mylo-hyoideus, Genio-hyoideus, . Genio-hyo-glossus. 4. Muscles of the Tongue. Genio-hyd-glossus, Hyo-glossus, Lingualis, St}do-glossus, Palato-glossus. 5. Muscles of the Pharynx. Constrictor inferior, Constrictor medius, Constrictor superior, Stylo-pharj'Ugeus, Palato-pharyngeus. 6. Muscles of the soft Palate. Levator palati, Tensor palati. Azygos uvulae, Palato-glossus, Palato-pharyngeus. 7. PrcBvertebral Group. Rectus anticus major. Rectus anticus minor. Scalenus anticus. Scalenus posticus, Longus colli. 8. Muscles of the Larynx. Crico-thyroideus, Crico-arytaenoideus, posticus, Crico-arytaenoideus, lateralis, Thju'o-arj’^taenoideus, Arytaenoideus. Dissection,—The dissection of the neck should be commenced by making an incision along the middle line of its fore part from the chin to the sternum, and bounding it superior!}' and inferiorly by two transverse incisions ; the superior one being carried along the margm of the lower jaw, and across the mastoid process to the tubercle on the occipital bone, the inferior one along the clavicle to the acromion pro- cess. The square flap of integument thus included should be turned back from the entire side of the neck, which brings into view the superficial fascia, and on the removal of a thin laj'er of superficial fascia the platysma myoides will be exposed. The Platysma myoides (wAaTy?, /Tv; broad muscle-like la- mella), is a thin plane of muscular fibres, situated between the two layers of the superficial cervical fascia ; it arises from the integument over the pectoralis major and deltoid muscles, and passes obliquely upwards and inwards along the side of the neck to be inserted into the side of the chin, oblique line of the lower jaw, the angle of the mouth, and into the areolar tissue of the face. The most anterior fibres are continuous beneath the chin, with the muscle of the opposite side ; the next interlace with the depressor anguli oris, and depressor lahii inferioris, and the most posterior fibres are disposed in a transverse direction across the side of the face, arising in the areolar tissue covering the parotid gland, and inserted into the angle of the mouth, constituting the risorius Santorini. The entire muscle is analogous to the cutaneous muscle of brutes, the panniculus carnosus. Pelations.—By its exter7ial surface with the integument, Muth which it is closely adherent below, but loosely above. By its internal surface.