422 FOURTH VENTRICLE. gland are attached to the thalami optici, and may he traced along the upper and inner margin of those bodies to the crura of the fornix with which they become blended. From the close connection subsisting between the pia mater and the pineal gland, and the softness of tex- ture of the latter, the gland is liable to be torn away in the removal of the pia mater. Behind the corpora quadrigemina is the cerebellum, and beneath the cerebellum the fourth ventricle. The student must therefore divide the cerebellum down to the fourth ventricle, and turn its lobes aside to examine that cavity. Fourth ventricle.—The fourth ventricle (sinus rhomboidalis) is the ventricle of the medulla oblongata, upon the posterior surface of \vhich, and of the pons Varolii, it is placed. It is a lozenge-shaped cavity, hounded on each side by a thick cord passing between the cerebellum and corpora quadrigemina, called the processus e cerebello ad testes, and by the corpus restiforme. It is covered in behind by the cerebellum, and by a thin lamella of medullary substance, stretched between the two processus e cerebello ad testes, termed the valve of Vieussens* That portion of the cerebellum which forms the posterior boundary of the fourth ventricle, presents four small prominences or lobules, and a thin layer of medullary substance, the velum medvllare posterius. Of the lobules two are placed in the middle line, the nodulus and uvula, the former being before the latter; the remaining two are named amygdalae, or tonsils, and are situated one on either side of the uvula. They all project into the cavity of the fourth ventricle, and the velum medullare posterius is situated in front of them. The valve of Vieussens or velum medullare anterius is an extremely thin lamella of medullary substance, prolonged from the white matter of the cerebellum to the testes, and attached on each side to the processus e cerebello ad testes. This lamella is overlaid for a short distance by a thin, transversely- grooved lobule of grey substance (linguetta laminosa) derived from the anterior border of the cerebellum, and its junction with the testes is strengthened by a narrow slip given off by the commissure of those bodies, the fraenvlum veli medullaris anterioris. The anterior wall, or floor of the fourth ventricle is formed by two slightly convex bodies, processus teretes or posterior pyramids, separated by a longitudinal groove which is continuous inferiorly with the fissura longitudinalis posterior of the spinal cord. The processus teretes are crossed transversely by several white and grey fasciculi {linece transversce) the origin of the auditory nerves. And upon the lower part of the floor of this ventricle is an impression resembling the point of a pen, and hence named calamus scriptorius; the lateral boundaries of the calamus are the processus clavati of the posterior median columns of the spinal cord. Above, the fourth ventricle is bounded by the corpora quadrigemina and aqUeduct * Ba)onond Vieussens, a great discoverer in the anatomy of the brain and nervous system. His “Neurographia Universalis ” was published at Lyons, in 1685.