Fig 67.* to a foramen. The supra-scapular nerve passes SHOULDER JOINT. 138 capsule is incomplete at the point of contact The transverse or coracoid ligament is a narrow but strong fasciculus which crosses the notch in the upper border of the scapula, from the base of the coracoid process, and converts it in- through this foramen. 4. Shoulder Joint, — The scapulo-humeral articulation is an enarthrosis, or ball and socket joint—its ligaments are, the Capsular, Coraco-humeral, Glenoid. The capsular ligament completely encircles the articidating head of the scapula and the head of the humerus, and is attached to the neck of each bone. It is thick above, where resistance is most required, and is strength- ened by the tendons of the supra-spinatus, infra-spinatus. teres minor, and subscapularis muscles; below it is thin and loose. The with the tendons, so that they obtain upon their inner surface a covering of synovial mem- * brane. j The coraco-humeral ligament is a broad ..J band which descends obliquely outwards from j the border of the coracoid process to the greater tuberosity of the humerus,and serves to strength- en the superior and anterior part of the capsu- lar ligament. The glenoid ligament is the prismoid band of fibro-cartilage, which is attached around the margin of the glenoid cavity for the purposes , of protecting its edges and deepening its cavity. It divides supe- ■ riorly into two slips which are continuous with the long tendon of the ^ biceps ; hence the ligament is frequently described as being formed ] by the splitting of that tendon. The cavity of the articulation is m traversed by the long tendon of the biceps, which is enclosed in a S sheath of synovial membrane in its passage through the joint. ^ The synovial membrane of the shoulder joint is extensive ; it com- municates anteriorly through an opening in the capsular ligament % with a large bursal sac, which lines the under surface of the tendon of the subscapularis muscle. Superiorly, it frequently communicates ^ through another opening in the capsular ligament with a bursal sac * An internal view of the ligaments of the elbow joint. 1. The anterior ligament. 2. The internal lateral ligament. 3. The orbicular ligament. 4. The oblique ligament. 6 The interosseous ligament. 6. The internal condyle of the humerus, which conceals the posterior ligament.