FLEXOR LONGUS I’OLLICIS. 2C7 dancing, leaping, &c. Taking their fixed point from below, they steady the leg upon the foot. Deep layer. * Popliteus, Flexor longus pollicis. Flexor longus digitorum. Tibialis posticus. Dissection.—After the removal of the soleus, the deep layer will be found bound down by an intermuscular fascia which is to be dissected away ; the muscles may then be examined. The Popliteus muscle (poples, the ham of the leg), forms the floor of the popliteal region at its lower part, and is bound tightly down by a strong fascia derived from the middle slip of the tendon of the semi- membranosus muscle. It arises by a rounded tendon from a deep groove on the outer side of the external condyle of the femim, beneath the external lateral ligament; and spreading obliquely over the head of the tibia, is inserted into the surface of bone above its oblique line. This line is called, from being the limit of insertion of the popliteus muscle, the popliteal line. Relations.—By its superficial suifiace with a thick fascia which separates it from the two heads of the gastrocnemius, the plantaris, and the popliteal vessels and nerve. By its deep surfaee with the sy- novial membrane of the knee-joint and with the upper part of the tibia. The Flexor longus pollicis is the most superficial of the next three muscles. It arises from the lower two-thirds of the fibula, and passes through a groove in the astragalus and os calcis, which is con- verted by tendinous fibres into a distinct sheath lined by a synovial membrane, into the sole of the foot ; it is inserted into the base of the last phalanx of the great toe. Relations.—By its superficial surface with the intemiuscular fascia, which separates it from the soleus and tendo Achillis. By its deep sur- face with the tibialis posticus, fibula, fibular vessels, interosseous mem- brane, and ankle-joint. By its outer border with the peroneus longus and brevis. By its inner border with the flexor longus digitorum. In the foot, the tendon of the flexor longus pollicis is connected with that of the flexor longus digitorum by a short tendinous slip. The Flexor longus digitoruai (perforans) arises from the sur- face of the tibia, immediately below the popliteal line. Its tendon passes through a sheath, common to it and the tibialis posticus, behind the inner malleolus ; it then passes through a second sheath which is connected with a groove in the astragalus and os calcis, into the sole of the foot, where it divides into four tendons, which are inserted into the base of the last phalanx of the four lesser toes, perforating the tendons of the flexor brevis digitorum. Relations.—By its superficial surface with the intermuscular fascia, (which separates it from the soleus,) and with the posterior tibial vessels