ANTERIOR TIBIAL ARTERY. 357 p.irt of tlie interrosseous membrane, to the anterior tibial region. It then nins down the anterior aspect of the leg to the ankle-joint, where it becomes the dorsalis pedis. Relations.—In its course do^vnwards it rests upon the interosseous membrane (to which it is connected by a little tendinous arch which is thro^\^l across it), the lower part of the tibia, and the anterior ligament of the joint. In the upper third of its course it is situated between the tibialis anticus and extensor longus digitorum, lower down between the tibialis anticus and extensor proprius pollicis ; and just before it reaches the ankle it is crossed by the tendon of the extensor proprius pollicis, and becomes placed between that tendon and the tendons of the extensor longus digitorum. Its immediate relations are the venae comites and the anterior tibial nerve, which latter lies at first to its outer side, and at fibout the middle of the leg becomes placed superfi- cially to the artery. Plan of the relatio?is of the Anterior Tibial Artery. Front. Deep fascia. Tibialis anticus, Extensor longus digitorum, Extensor proprius pollicis, Anterior tibial nerve. Inner Side. Tibialis anticus. Tendon of the extensor pro- prius poUicis. Anterior tibial artery. Behind. Older Side. Anterior tibial nerve. Extensor longus digitorum. Extensor proprius poUicis, Tendons of the extensor longus digitorum. Interosseous membrane. Tibia (lower fourth). Ankle-joint. Branches.—The branches of the Anterior Tibial Artery are the— Recurrent, Muscular, External malleolar. Internal malleolar. The Recurrent branch passes upwards beneath the origin of the tibialis anticus muscle to the front of the knee-joint, upon which it is distributed, anastomosing with the articular arteries. The Muscular branches are very numerous, they supply the muscles of the anterior tibial region. The Malleolar arteries are distributed to the ankle-joint; the exter- nal passing beneath the tendons of the extensor longus digitorum and branches of the popliteal. 11. The internal malleolar artery. 17. The external malleolar inosculating with the anterior peroneal artery 12. 13. The dorsalis -pedis arteiy. 14. The tarsea and metatarsea arteries ; the tarsea is nearest the ankle, the metatarsea is seen giving off the interosseie. 15. The dorsalis hallucis artery. 16. The communicating branch.