327 RADIAL ARTERY. brachial, at about two inches above the joint. It passes directly in- wards, and divides into two branches which inosculate with the ante- rior and posterior ulnar recurrent arteries and with the inferior pro- fimda. The j\[itscular branches are distributed to the muscles in the course of the artery, ^dz. to the coraco-brachialis, biceps, deltoid, brachialis anticus and triceps. Varieties of the brachial Artery.— The most frequent peculiarity in the distribution of branches from this artery is the high division of the radial, which arises generally from about the upper third of the brachial artery, and descends to its normal position at the bend of the elbow. The ulnar artery sometimes arises from the brachial at about two inches above the elbow, and pursues either a superficial or deep course to the wrist; and, in more than one instance, I have seen the interosseous artery arise from the brachial a little above the bend of the elbow. The two profunda arteries occasionally arise by a com- mon trunk, or there may be two superior profundse. RADIAL ARTERY. The Radial artery, one of the divisions of the brachial, appears, from its direction, to be the continuation of that trunk. It runs along the radial side of the fore-arm, from the bend of the elbow to the wrist; it there turns around the base of the thumb, beneath its ex- tensor tendons, and passes between the two heads of the first dorsal interosseous muscle, into the palm of the hand. It then crosses the metacarpal bones to the ulnar side of the hand, forming the deep palmar arch, and terminates by inosculating with the superficial palmar arch. In the upper half of its course, the radial artery is situated between the supinator longus muscle, by which it is overlapped superiorly, and the pronator radii teres ; in the lower half, between the tendons of the supinator longus and flexor carpi radialis. It rests in its course downwards, upon the supinator brevis, pronator radii teres, radial origin of the flexor sublimis, flexor longus poUicis, and pronator qua- dratus ; and is covered in by the integument and fasciae. At the wrist it is situated in contact with the dorsal carpal ligaments and beneath the extensor tendons of the thumb ; and, in the palm of the hand, beneath the flexor tendons. It is accompanied by venae comites throughout its course, and by its middle third is in close relation with the radial nerve. profunda. 14. The superflcialis volae. 15. The ulnar artery. 16. Its super- ficial palmar arch giving off digital branches to three fingers and a half. 17. The magna pollicis and radialis indicia arteries. 18. The posterior ulnar recur- rent. 19. The anterior interosseous artery. 20. The posterior interosseous, as it is passing through the interosseous membrane.