544 STRUCTURE OF THE HEART. Auriculo-ventricular opening, Aortic opening. Mitral valves, Semilunar valves. Cliordffi tendineae, Columnaj camese. The Auriculo-ventricular opening is a dense fibrous ring, covered by the lining membrane of the heart, but smaller in size than that of the right side. The Mitral valves are attached around the aurieulo-ventricular opening, as are the tricuspid in the right ventricle. They are thicker than the tricuspid, and consist of only two segments, of which the larger is placed between the auriculo-ventricular opening and the com- mencement of the aorta, and acts the part of a valve to that foramen during the filling of the ventricle. The difference in size of the two valves, both being triangular, and the space between them, has given rise to the idea of a “bishop's mitre" after which they were named. These valves, like the tricuspid, are furnished with an apparatus of tendinous cords, chordae tendineae, which are attached to two verj' large columnae carneae. The Columnae carneae admit of the same arrangement into three kinds, as on the right side. Those which are free by one extremitj’’, the columnae papillares, are two in number, and larger than those on the opposite side ; one being placed on the left wall of the ventricle, and the other at the junction of the septum ventriculorum with the posterior wall. The Semilunar valves are placed around the commencement of the aorta, like those of the pulmonary artery; they are similar in struc- ture, and are attached to the scalloped border by which the aorta is connected with the ventricle. The tubercle in the centre of each fold is larger than those in the pulmonary valves, and it was these that Arantius particularly described ; but the terra corpora Arantii" is now applied indiscriminately to both. The fossae between the semi- lunar valves and the cylinder of the arter}’’ are larger than those of the pulmonary artery ; they are called the “ mnus aortici" (sinuses of Valsalva ). STRUCTURE OF THE HEART. The arrangement of the fibres of the heart has been made the subject of careful investigation by Mr. Searle, to whose article, “ Fibres of the Heart,” in the Cyclopaedia of Anatomy and Physiology, I am indebted for the following summary of their distribution:— For the sake of clearness of description the fibres of the ventricles have been divided into three layers, superficial, middle, and internal, all of which are disposed in a spiral direction around the cavities of the ventricles. The mode of formation of these three layers will