I 592 STRUCTURAL ANATOMY OK THE LIVER. venous Wood from the ultimate ramifications of the hepatic arterj' in j; the liver itself. It gives off branches in the canals, wliich are called i vaginal, and form a venous vaginal plexus ; these give off interlobular < branches, and the latter enter the lobules and fonn lobulur veiious b plexuses, from the blood circulating in which the bile is secreted. * The Bile in the lobule is received by a network of minute ducts, , the lobular biliary plexus; it is conveyed from the lobule into the interlobular ducts ; it is thence poured into hWiary vaginal jjkxus ' ; of the portal canals, and thence into the excreting ducts, by which it is carried to the duodenum and gall-bladder, after being mingled in j its course with the mucous secretion from the numberless muciparous ! follicles in the walls of the ducts. The Hepatic artery distributes branches through every portal canal; gives off vaginal branches which form a vaginal hepatic plexus, from which the interlobular branehes arise, and these latter terminate ; ultimately in the lobular venous plexuses of the portal vein. The artery ramifies abundantly in the coats of the hepatic ducts, enabling j them to provide their mucous secretion ; and supplies the vasa vaso- rum of the portal and hepatic veins, and tlie nutrient vessels of the entire organ. i The Hepatic veins commence in the centre of each lobule by minute radicles, which collect the impure blood from the lobular venous plexus and convej’’ it into the intralobular veins ; these open into the svh- lobular veins, and the sublobular veins unite to form the large hepatic trunks by which the blood is conveyed into the vena cava. Physiological and pathological deductions.—The physiological deduc- tion arising out of this anatomical arrangement is, that the bUe is wholly secreted from venous blood, and not from a mixed venous and ar- terial blood, as stated by Muller; for although the portal vein re- ceives its blood from two sources, viz. from the chylopoietic viscera and from the capillaries of the hepatic artery, yet the verj-- fact of the blood of the latter vessel having passed through its capillaries into the portal vein, or in extremely small quantity into the capillary network of the lobular venous plexus, is sufficient to establish its venous character.* The pathological deductions depend upon the following facts: — Each lobule is a perfect gland ; of uniform structure, of uniform colour, and possessing the same degree of vascularity throughout. It is the seat of a double venous circulation, the vessels of the one (Jiepatic) being situated in the centre of the lobule, and those of the other (portal) in the circumference- Now the colour of the lobule, as of the entire liver, depends chiefly upon the proportion of blood con- tained within these two sets of vessels; and so long as the circulation ' is natural, the colour will be uniform. But the instant that any cause ; is developed which shall interfere with the free circulation of either, there will be an immediate diversity in the colour of the lobule. ♦ For arguments on this contested question, see the article “Liver,” in the “ Cyclopaedia of Anatomy and Physiology,” edited by Dr. Todd. '