VESTIBULE. 519 The Vestibule is a small three-cornered cavity, compressed from without inwards, and situated immediately within the inner wall of the tympanum. The three comers, which are named ventricles or cornua, are placed, one anteriorly, one superiorly, and one posteriorly. The Anterior ventricle receives the oval aperture of the scala vesti- buli; the superior, the ampuUary openings of the superior and hori- zontal semicircular canals ; the posterior, the ampuUary opening of the oblique semicircular canal, the common aperture of the oblique and perpendicular canals, the termination of the horizontal canal, and the aperture of the aquaeductus vestibuli. In the anterior ventricle is a small depression, which corresponds with the posterior segment of the cul de sac of the meatus auditorius internus; it is called the fovea he- mispherica, and is pierced by a cluster of small openings, the macula cribrosa. In the superior ventricle of the vestibule is another small depression, the fovea elliptica, which is separated from the fovea hemi- spherica by a projecting crest, the eminentia pyramidalis. The latter is pierced by numerous minute openings for the passage of nervous filaments. The posterior ventricle presents a third small depression, the fovea sulciformis, which leads upwards to the ostium aquieductus vestibuli. The internal wall of the vestibule corresponds with the bottom of the cul de sac of the meatus auditorius internus, and is pierced by numerous small openings for the transmission of nervous filaments. In the external or tympanic wall is the reniform opening of the fenestra ovalis (fenestra vestibuli), the margin of which presents a prominent rim towards the cavity of the vestibule. The openings of the vestibule may be arranged, like those of the tympanum, into large and small. The Large openings are seven in number : viz. the— Fenestra ovalis, Scala vestibuli. Five openings of the three semicircular canals. The Small openings are the— Aquaeductus vestibuli. Openings for small arteries. Openings for branches of the auditory nerve. The Fenestra ovalis has already been described ; it is the opening from the tympanum. The opening of the scala vestibuli is the oval termination of the ves- tibular canal of the cochlea. Ac/uceductus vestibuli (canal of Cotunnius) is the commencement of the small canal which opens under the osseous scale upon the pos- terior surface of the petrous bone. It gives passage to a process of membrane (which is continuous internally with the lining membrane of the vestibule, and extemaUy with the dura mater), and to a small vein.