VEINS OK THE NECK. 374 The Circular sinus (sinus of Ridley) is situated in the sella turcica, surrounding the pituitary gland, and communicating on each side with the cavernous sinus. The posterior segment is larger than the anterior. The Superior petrosal sinuses pass obliquely backwards along the attached border of the tentorium, on the upper margin of the petrous portion of the temporal bone, and establish a communication between the cavernous and lateral sinus at each side. They receive one or two cerebral veins from the inferior part of the middle lobes, and a cere- bellar vein from the anterior border of the cerebellum. Near the e.K- tremity of the petrous bone these sinuses cross the oval aperture which transmits the fifth nerve. The Transverse sinus (basilar, anterior occipital) passes transversely across the basilar process of the occipital bone, forming a communica- tion between the two inferior petrosal sinuses. Sometimes there are two sinuses in this situation. VEINS OF THE NECK. The veins of the neck which return the blood from the head are the— External jugular. Anterior jugular. Internal jugular. Vertebral. The External jugular vein is formed by the union of the poste- I rior auricular vein with the temporo-maxillary, and commences at the lower border of the parotid gland, in front of the stemo-mastoid muscle. It descends the neck in the direction of a line drawn from the angle of the lower jaw to the middle of the clavicle, crosses the stemo- mastoid, and terminates, near the posterior and inferior attachment of that muscle, in the subclavian vein. In its course downwards it lies upon the anterior lamella of the deep cervical fascia, which separates it from the sterno-mastoid muscle, and is covered in by the platysma myoides and superficial fascia. At the root of the neck it pierces the deep cervical fascia; it is accompanied, for the upper half of its course, by the auricularis magnus nerve. The branches which it receives are the occipital cutaneous and posterior cervical cutaneous, and, near its termination, the supra and posterior scapular. The external jugular vein is very variable in size, and is occasional!}' replaced by two veins. In the parotid gland it receives a large com- municating branch from the internal jugular vein. The Anterior jugular vein is a trunk of variable size, which col- lects the blood from the integmnent and superficial stractures on the fore part of the neck. It passes downwards along the anterior border of the sterno-mastoid muscle, and opens into the subclavian vein, near