31 TEMPORAL BONE. zontally forwards into the base of the skull, the base being applied against the internal surface of the squamous and mastoid portions, and the apex being received into the triangular interval between the spi- nous process of the sphenoid and the basilar process of the occipital bone. For convenience of description it is divisible into three sur- faces—anterior, posterior, and basilar; and three borders—superior, anterior, and posterior. Surfaces- — The anterior surface., forming the posterior boundary of the middle fossa of the interior of the base of the skull, presents for examination from base to apex, first, an eminence caused by the pro- jection of the perpendicular semicircular canal; next, a groove lead- ing to an irregular oblique opening, the hiatus Fallopii, for the transmission of the pe- trosal branch of the Vidian nerve; thirdly, another and smaller oblique foramen, imme- diately beneath the pre- ceding, for the passage of the nervus petrosus superficialis minor, a branch of Jacobson’s nerve; and, lastly, a large foramen near the apex of the bone, the termination of the caro- tid canal. 'The posterior suiface forms the front boun- daiy of the posterior fossa of the base of the skull; near its middle is the oblique entrance ♦ The left temporal bone, seen from within. 1. The squamous portion. 2. The mastoid portion. 'I'he number is placed immediately above the inner opening of the mastoid foramen. 3. The petrous portion. 4. The groove for the posterior branch of the arteria meningea media. 5. The bevelled edge of the squamous border of the bone. 6. The zygoma. 7. The digastric fossa Immediately internal to the mastoid process. 8. The occipital gi-oove. 9. The groove for the lateral sinus. 10. The elevation upon the anterior surface of the petrous bone marking the situation of the perpendicular semicircular canal. 11. The opening of termination of the carotid canal. 12. The meatus audito- rius inteniuB. 13. A dotted line leads upwards from this number to thenar- row fissure which lodges a process of the dura mater. Another line leads downwards to the sharp edge which conceals the opening of the aquieductus cochleae, while the number itself is situated on the bony lamina which overlies the opening of the aquaeductus vestibuli. 14. The styloid process. 15. The stylo-mastoid foramen. 16. The carotid foramen. 17. The jugular process. The deep excavation to the left of this proces.s forms part of the jugular fossa, and tliat to the right is the groove for the eighth pair of nerves. 18. The notch for the fifth nerve upon the upper border of the petrous bone, near Its apex. 19 The extremity of the petrous bone which gives origin to the levator ])alati and tensor tympani muscles. Fig. 18.♦ ^ ‘ i'> / Jl^// ' >*