604 BLADDEIl—ITS LIGAMENTS. inserted into the isthmus of the prostate gland, and into a ring of- ; muscular tissue, which surrounds the commencement of the prostatic i portion of the urethra. Some of the anterior fibres are also attached j to this ring. The lateral fibres commence at the prostate gland and the muscular ring of the urethra on one side, and spread out as they | ascend upon the side of the bladder to descend upon the opposite side, I and be inserted into the prosfcite and opposite segment of the same ring. Two bands of oblique fibres are described by Sir Charles Bell, as originating at the terminations of the ureters, and converging to the neck of the bladder; the existence of these muscles is not well established. The fibres corresponding with the trigonum vesicaj are transverse. It has been shown by Mr. Guthrie,* that there are no fibres at the neck of the bladder capable of forming a sphincter vesicae ; but Mr. Lane f has described a fasciculus of muscular fibres which surround the commencement of the urethra, and perform such an office. These fibres form a narrow bundle above the urethra, but spread out below behind the prostate gland ; they are brought into view by dissecting off the mucous membrane from around the orifice of the urethra. Sir Astley Cooper has described around the urethra, within the prostate gland, a ring of elastic tissue, or, rather, according to Mr. Lane, of muscular fibres, which has for its object the closure of the urethra against the involuntary passage of the urine. It is into this ring that the longitudinal fibres of the detrusor urinse are inserted, so that the muscle, taking a fixed point at the os pubis, will not only com- press the bladder, and thereby tend to force its contents along the urethra, but will at the same time, by means of its attachment to the ring, dilate the entrance of the urethra, and afford a free egress to the contents of the bladder. The Mucous coat is thin and smooth, and exactly moulded upon the muscular coat, to which it is connected by a somewhat thick layer of submucous tissue, called by some anatomists the nervous coat ; its papillae are very minute, and there is scarcely a trace of mucous follicles. This mucous membrane is continuous, through the ureters, with the lining membrane of the uriniferous ducts, and, through the urethra, with that of the prostatic ducts, tubuli seminiferi, and Cow- per’s glands. Upon the internal surface of the base of the bladder is a triangular smooth plane of a paler colour than the rest of the mucous membrane, the trigonum vesicae, or trigone vesicate, (fig. 191.) This is the most sensitive part of the bladder, and the pressure of calculi upon it gives rise to great suffering. It is bounded on each side by the raised ridge, corresponding with the muscles of the ureters, at each posterior angle by the openings of the ureters, and, in front, bj’ a slight eleva- tion of the mucous membrane at the entrance of the urethra, called uvula vesiccB. * “ On the Anatomy and Diseases of the Neck of the Bladder and of the Urethra.” ' f Lancet, vol. i. 1842-43, p. 670.