436 SPINAL CORD. dulla spinalis into two lateral cords, which are connected to each other by the white commissure which forms the bottom of the anterior lon- gitudinal fissure, and by a commissure of grey matter situated behind the former. On either side of the fissura longitudinalis posterior is a slight line which bounds on each side the posterior median columns. These columns are most apparent at the upper part of the cord, near the fourth ventricle, where they are separated by the point of the calamus scriptorius, and where they form the bulbous enlargement at each side, called processus clavatus. Two other lines are observed on the medulla, the anterior and pos- terior lateral sulci, corresponding with the attachment of the anterior and posterior roots of the spinal nerves. The anterior lateral sulcus is a mere trace, marked only by the attachment of the filaments of the anterior roots. The posterior lateral sulcus is more evident, and is a narrow greyish line derived from the grey substance of the interior. Although these fissures and sulci indicate a division of the spinal cord into three pairs of columns, namely, anterior, lateral, and poste- rior, the posterior median columns being regarded as a part of the posterior columns, it is customary to consider each half of the spinal cord as consisting of two columns only, the antero-lateral and the posterior. The antero-lateral columns are the columns of motion, and comprehend all that part of the cord situated between the fissura longitudinalis anterior and the posterior lateral sulcus, the grey line of origin of the posterior roots of the spinal nerves. The posterior columns are the columns of sensation. If a transverse section of the spinal cord be made, its internal struc- ture may be seen and examined. It will then appear to be composed of two hollow cylinders of white matter, placed side by side, and con- nected by a narrow white commissure. Each cylinder is filled with grey substance, which is connected by a commissure of the same Fig. 146.* A B * Sections of the spinal cord. After Arnold. A. A section made across the lower part of the corpora olivaria. 1, 1. Corpora pyramidalia. 2. Fissura lon- gitudinalis anterior. 3. The corpus olivare; in the section of which the zig-zag outline of the coitjus dentatum is seen. 4. The corpus restifome. 5. The grey substance of the corpus restiforme. 6. The corpora pyramidalia postenora. 7. The floor of the fourth ventricle. B A section made between the third and fourth cervical nerves. 1. The fissura longitudinalis anterior. 2. An indentation corresponding in situation