621 APPENDAGES OF THE UTERUS. They terminate on each side of the uterus in the uterine plexuses. The lymphatics terminate in the lumbar glands. The Nerves of the uterus are derived from the hypogastric and spermatic plexuses, and from the sacral plexus. They have been made the subject of special investigation by Dr. Robert Lee, who has successfully repaired the omission made by Dr. William Hunter, in this part of the anatomy of the organ. In his numerous dissections of the uterus, both in the unimpregnated and gravid state. Dr. Lee has made the discovery of several large nervous ganglia and plexuses. The principal of these, situated on each side of the cervix uteri imme- diately behind the ureter, he tenns the hypogastric ganglion; it re- ceives the greater number of the nerves from the hypogastric and sacral plexus, and distributes branches to the uterus, vagina, bladder, and rectum. Of the branches to the uterus, a large fasciculus proceeds upwards by the side of the organ towards its angle, where they com- municate with branches of the spermatic plexus, and form another large ganglion, .which he designates the spermatic ganglion^ and which supplies the fundus uteri. Besides these. Dr. Lee describes vesical and vagmcd ganglia, and anterior and posterior suhperitoneal ganglia and plexuses, which communicate with the preceding, and constitute an extensive nervous network over the entire uterus. Dr. Lee con- cludes his observations by remarking :—“These dissections prove that the human uterus possesses a great system of nerves, which enlarges with the coats, blood-vessels, and absorbents, during pregnancy, and which returns after parturition to its original condition before con- ception takes place. It is chiefly by the influence of these nerves that the uterus performs the varied functions of menstruation, con- ception, and parturition, and it is solely by their means that the whole fabric of the nervous system sympathises with the different morbid affections of the uterus. If these nerves of the uterus could not be demonstrated, its physiology and pathology would be com- pletely inexplicable.”* APPENDAGES OF THE UTERUS. The Appendages of the uterus are enclosed by the lateral duplica- tures of peritoneum, called the broad ligaments. They are the Fallo- pian tubes and ovaries. The FALLOPiANf TUBES OF oviducts, the uterine trumpets of the French writers, are situated in the upper border of the broad liga- ments, and are connected with the superior angles of the uterus. They are somewhat trumpet-shaped, being smaller at the uterine than • Philosophical Transactions for 1842. t Gabriel Fallopius, a nobleman of Modena, was one of the founders of mo- dem anatomy. He was Professor at Ferrara, then at Pisa, and afterwards suc- ceeded Vesalius at Padua. His principal observations are collected in a work, “ Observationes Anatomicae,” which ho published in 1561.