343 VESICAL ARTERIES.—ISCHIA TIC ARTERY. Relations.—This artery rests externally on the sacral plexus and on the origin of the pyriformis muscle ; posteriorly it is in relation with the internal iliac vein, and anteriorly with the ureter. Branches.—The branches of the anterior trunk are the— Umbilical, Jschiatic, Middle vesical, Internal pudic. Middle hsemorrhoidal, And in the female the— Uterine, Vaginal. And of the posterior tnink, the— Ilio-lumbar, Lateral sacral, Obturator, Gluteal. The umbilical artery is the commencement of the fibrous cord into which the umbilical artery of the fostus is converted after birth. In after life, the cord remains pervious for a short distance and constitutes the umbilical artery of the adult, from which the superior vesical artery is given off to the fundus and anterior aspect of the bladder. The cord may be traced forwards by the side of the fundus of the bladder to near its apex, whence it ascends by the side of the linea alba and urachus to the umbilicus. The Middle vesical artery is generally a branch of the umbilical, and sometimes of the internal iliac. It is somewhat larger than the superior vesical, and is distributed to the posterior part of the body of the bladder, the vesiculie seminales, and prostate gland. The Middle hcemorrhoidal artery is as frequently derived from the ischiatic or internal pudic as from the internal iliac. It is of variable size, and is distributed to the rectum, base of the bladder, vesiculae seminales, and prostate gland ; and inosculates with the superior and external haemorrhoidal arteries. The Ischiatic artery is the larger of the two terminal branches of the anterior division of the internal iliac. It passes downwards between the posterior border of the levator ani and the pyriformis, resting on the sacral plexus of nerves and lying behind the internal pudic arterj', to the lower border of the great ischiatic notch, where it escapes from the pelvis below the pyriformis muscle. It then de- scends in the space between the trochanter major and the tuberosity of the ischium in company with the ischiatic nerves, and divides into branches. Its branches within the pelvis are hcemorrhoidal which supply the rectum conjointly with the middle haemorrhoidal and sometimes take the place of that artery, and the inferior vesical which is distributed ■ to the base and neck of the bladder, the vesiculae seminales, and