PROFUNDA ARTERY. 353 Plan of the relations of the Profunda Artery. In Front. Profunda vein, Adductor longus. Inner Side. Pectineus, Adductor brevis. Adductor magnus. Oute)' Side. Psoas and lliacus. Vastus Internus, Femur. Behind. Pectineus, Tendon of psoas and iliacus, A dductor brevis, Adductor magnus. Branches.—The branches of the profunda artery are, the external circumflex, internal circumflex, and three perforating arteries. The Eodernal drcumjkx artery passes obliquely outwards between the divisions of the crural nerve, then between the rectus and crureus muscle, and divides into three branches ; ascending, which inosculates with the terminal branches of the gluteal artery; descending, which inosculates Avith the superior external articular artery; and middle, which continues the original course of the artery around the thigh, and anastomoses with branches of the ischiatic, internal circumflex, and superior perforating artery. It supplies the muscles on the anterior and outer side of the thigh. The Internal circumflex artery is larger than the external; it winds around the inner side of the neck of the femur, passing between the pectineus and psoas, and along the border of the external obturator muscle, to the space between the quadratuS femoris and upper border of the adductor magnus, where it anastomoses with the ischiatic, ex- ternal circumflex, and superior perforating artery. It supplies the I r muscles of the upper and inner side of the thigh, anastomosing with : the obturator artery, and sends a small branch through the notch in It the acetabulum into the hip-joint. The Superior perforating artery passes backwards between the pec- I: tineus and adductor brevis, pierces the adductor magnus near the |f'femur, and is distributed to the posterior muscles of the thigh ; inos- L’cnlating freely with the circumflex and ischiatic arteries, and with the Ibbranches of the middle perforating artery. The Middle perforating artery pierces the tendons of the adductor j brevis and magnus, and is distributed like the superior; inosculating hwith the superior and inferior perforantes. This branch frequently r gives off the nutritious arterj’- of the femur. The Inferior perforating artery is given off below the adductor bre- .•is, and pierces the tendon of the adductor magnus, supplying it and |r,he flexor muscles, and inosculating with the middle perforating artery A A