237 FLEXOR CARPI RADIALIS. Disseclion.—These muscles tare broiifrht into view by making an in- cision through the integument along the middle line of the fore-arm, crossing each extremity by a transverse incision, and turning aside the flaps. The superficial and deep fascia are then to be removed. The Pronator r.a.dii teres arises by two heads ; one from tlie inner condyle of the humerus, fiiscia of the fore-arm, and intermuscular aponeurosis; the other, from the coronoid process of the ulna; the me- dian nerve passing between them. Its tendon is flat, and is inseiied into the middle third of the oblique ridge of the radius. The two ■ heads of this muscle are best examined by cutting through that which jarises from the inner condyle, and turning it aside. The second head •• will then be seen with the median nerve lying across it. Relations.—By its anterior surface with the fascia of the fore-arm, : the supinator longus, extensor carpi radialis longior and brevior, radial artery and veins, and radial nerve. By its posterior surface with the ibrachialis anticus, flexor sublimis digitorum, the ulnar artery and ■veins, and the median nerve after it has passed between the two 'heads of the muscle. By its upper border it forms the inner boundary of the triangular space, in which the termination of the brachial arterj' ; is situated. By its loicer border it is in relation with the flexor carpi •radialis. The Flexor carpi radialis arises from the inner condyle and from the intermuscular fascia. Its tendon passes tlirough a groove formed by the scaphoid bone and trapezium, to be inserted into the base of the metacai-pal bone of the index finger. Relations.—By its anterior surface with the fascia of the fore-arm, and at the wrist with the tendinous canal through which its tendon 'Oasses. By its posterior surface with the flexor sublimis digitorum, dexor longus pollicis, wrist-joint, and groove in the scaphoid and tra- aezium bones. By its outer border witli the pronator radii teres, and •adial artery and veins. By its mner border with the palmaris longus. The tendon is surrounded by a synovial membrane where it plays •hrough the tendinous canal of the wrist. The Palmaris longus is a small muscle which arises from the nner condyle, and from the intermuscular fascia. It is inserted into I he annular ligament and palmar fascia. Occasionally this muscle is vanting. Relations.—By its anterior surface with the fascia of the fore-arm. !Iy the posterior surface \vith the flexor sublimis digitorum ; to the ' rternal side by tlie flexor carpi radialis ; and to the internal side by i he fle.xor carpi ulnaris. Cut the flexor cai-pi radialis and palmaris longus from their origins, r. 1 order to obtain a good view of the whole extent of origin of the I exor sublimis digitorum. The Flexor sublimis digitorum (perforatus) arises from the iner condyle, internal lateral ligament, coronoid process of the ulna, nd oblique line of the radius. The median nerve and ulnar artery mss between its origins. It divides into four tendons, which pass