135 STERNO-CLAVICULAR LIGAMENTS. 8. Articulation between the carpal bones. 9. Carpo-metacarpal articulation. 10. Metacarpo-phalangeal articulation. 11. Articulation of the phalanges. 1. Sterna-clavicular Artiadaiion.—The stemo-clavicular is an ar- throdial articulation j its ligaments are, Anterior stemo-clavicular, Posterior sterno-clavicular. Inter-clavicular, Costo-clavicular {rhomboid), Interarticular fibro-cartilage. Two synovial membranes. The anterior stemo-davicidar ligament is a broad ligamentous layer, extending obliquely downwards and forwards, and covering the ante- rior aspect of the articulation. This ligament is in relation by its anterior surface mth the integument and with the sternal origin of the stemo-mastoid muscle ; and behind with the interarticular fibro- cartilage and sjmovial membranes. The posterior sterno-clavicular ligament is a broad fasciculus, cover- ing the posterior surface of the articulation. It is in relation by its anterior surface with the interarticular fibro-cartilage and synovial membranes, and behind with the sterno-hyoid muscle. The two ligaments are continuous at the upper and lower part of the articulation, so as to form a complete capsule around the joint. The inter-clavicular ligament is a cord-like band which crosses from the extremity of one clavicle to that of the other, and is closely con- nected with the upper border of the sternum. It is separated by areolar tissue from the stemo-thy^roid muscles. The costo-clavicular ligament (rhomboid^ is a thick fasciculus of fibres, connecting the sternal extremity of the clavicle with the carti- lage of the first rib. It is situated obliquely between the rib and the under surface of the clavicle ; and is in relation, in front, with the ten- don of origin of the subclavius muscle, and behind with the subclavian vein. Actions.—The movements of the sterno-clavicular articulation are, a gliding movement of the fibro-cartilage, with the clavicle, upon the articular surface of the sternum, in the direction, forwards, backwards, upwards, and downwards ; and circumduction. This articulation is the centre of the movements of the shoulder. It is the rupture of the rhomboid ligament in dislocation of the sternal end of the clavicle that gives rise to the deformity peculiar to this accident. The interarticular fil/ro-cartilage is nearly circular in form, and thicker at the edges than in the centre. It is attached above, to the clavicle; below, to the cartilage of the first rib ; and throughout the rest of its circumference to the anterior and posterior sterno-clavicular