635 FCETAL LIVER.—SUPRA-RENAL CAPSULES. lishment of the placental circulation they cease to cany blood, and dwindle to the size of mere threads, which may be easily demonstrated in the early periods of uterine life ; but are completely removed, ex- cepting under peculiar circumstances, at a later period. The Stomach is of small size, and the great extremity but little de- veloped. It is also more vertical in direction the earlier it is examined, a position that would seem due to the enormous magnitude of the liver, and particularly of its left lobe. The Appendix venniformis cceci is long and of large size, and is con- tinued directly from the central part of the cul-de-sac of the caecum, of which it appeal’s to be a constricted continuation. This is the charac- ter of the appendix caeci in the higher quadrumana. The large intestines are filled with a dark green viscous secretion, called meco7iium {ftnxuv, poppy), from its resemblance to the inspissated juice of the poppy. The Pancreas is comparatively larger in the foetus than in the adidt. The Spleen is comparatively smaller in the foetus than in the adult. F(ETAL LIVER. The Liver is the first formed organ in the embryo. It is developed from the alimentary canal, and at about the third week, fills the whole abdomen, and is one-half the weight of the entire embryo. At the fourth month the liver is of immense size in proportion to the bulk of the foetus. At birth it is of very large size, and occupies the whole upper part of the abdomen. The left lobe is as large as the right, and the falciform ligament corresponds with the middle line of the body. The liver diminishes rapidly after birth, probably from obliteration of the umbilical vein. KIDNEYS AND SUPRA-RENAL CAPSULES. The Kidneys present a lobulated appearance in the foetus, which is their permanent type amongst some animals, as the bear, the otter, and cetacea. The Supra-renal capsules are organs which appear, from their early and considerable development, to belong especially to the economy of the foetus. They are distinctly formed at the second month of em- bryonic life, and are greater in size and weight than the kidneys. At the third or fourth month, they are equalled in bulk by the kid- neys ; and at birth they are about one-third less than those organs. VISCERA OF THE PELVIS. The Bladder in the foetus is long and conical, and is situated alto- gether above the upper border of the ossa pubis, which are as yet small