II 576 COLON.—RECTUM. the c,Tecum upon tlie right side. The caecum is the most dilated portion of the large intestine. The Colon is divided into ascending, transverse, and descending. The ascending colon passes upwards from the right iliac fossa, through the right lumbar region, to the under surface of the liver. It then bends inwards and crosses the upper part of the umbilical region under the name of transverse colon; and, on the left side, descends {descending colon) through the left lumbar region to the left iliac fossa, where it makes a remarkable curve upon itself, which is called the sigmoid Jlexure. The ascending colon, the most dilated portion of the large intestine, next to the caecum, is retained in . its position in the abdomen either by the peritoneum passing simply in front of it or by a narrow meso- colon. It is in relation in front with the small intestine and abdomi- nal parietes; behind with the quadratus lumborum muscle and right kidney; internally with the small intestine and the perpendicular por- tion of the duodenum ; and by its upper extremity with the under sur- face of the liver and gall-bladder. The transverse colon, the longest j portion of the large intestine, forms a curve across the cavity of the j abdomen, the convexity of which looks forwards and sometimes down- ; wards. It is in relation, by its upper surface, with the liver, gall- bladder, stomach, and lower extremity of the spleen; by its lower sur- face, with the small intestine; by its anterior surface, with the anterior layers of the great omentum and the abdominal parietes; and, by its posterior surface, with the transverse meso-colon. The descending colon is smaller in calibre, and is situated more deeply than the ascending colon. Its relations are precisely similar. The sigmoid flexure is the ( narrowest part of the colon; it curves in the first place upwards and then downwards, and to one or the other side, and is retained in its place by a meso-colon. It is in relation, in front, with the small intes- tine and abdominal parietes; behind, Avith the iliac fossa, and, on either side, witli the small intestine. The Rectum is the termination of the large intestine. It has re- ceived its name, not so much from the direction of its course, as from the straightness of its form in comparison with the colon. It descends, from opposite the left sacro-iliac sjnnphysis, in front of the sacrum, forming a gentle curve to the right side, and then returning to the j middle line; near the extremity of the coccyx it curves backwards to | terminate at the anus at about an inch in front of the apex of that bone. The rectum, therefore, forms a double flexure,in its course, the one being directed from side to side, the other from before backwards. It is smSler in calibre at its upper part than the sigmoid flexure, but becomes gradually larger as it descends, and its lower extremity, pre- viously to its termination at the anus, forms a dilatation of consider- j able but variable magnitude. 1 With reference to its relations, the rectum is divided into three por- j tions; the ^rs<, including half its length, extends to about the middle of the sacrum, is completely surrounded by peritoneum, and connected 1