ARTERIA CENTRALIS RETINiE. 507 anterior ciliary arteries, and the arteria centralis retina}. The long ciliarg arteries, two in number, pierce the posterior , part of the scle- rotic, and pass forward on each side, between that membrane and the choroid, to the ciliary ligament, where they divide into two branches, which are distributed to the iris. The short ciliary arteries pierce the posterior part of the sclerotic coat, and are distributed to the middle layer of the choroid membrane. The anterior ciliary are branches of the muscular ai-teries. They enter tlie eye through the anterior part of the sclerotic, and are distributed to the iris. It is the increased number of these latter arteries, in iritis, that gives rise to the peculiar red zone around the circumference of the cornea which accompanies that disease. The arteria centralis retina enters the optic nerve at about half an inch from the globe of the eye, and passing through the porus opticus is distributed upon the inner surface of the retina, forming its vascular layer; one branch pierces the centre of the vitreous humour, and sup- plies the capsule of the lens. The Nerves of the eyeball are, the optic, two ciliary nerves from the nasal branch of the ophthalmic, and the ciliary nerves from the ;ciliar\' ganglion. Obserratims.—The sclerotic is a tunic of protection, and the cornea sa medium for the transmission of light. The choroid supports the vessels destined for the nutrition of the eye, and by its pigmentum nignim absorbs all loose and scattered rays that might confuse the rimage impressed upon the retina. The iris, by means of its powers of expansion and contraction, regulates the quantity of light admitted through the pupil. If the iris be thin, and the rays of light pass •through its substance, they are immediately absorbed by the uvea; and : T that layer be insufficient, they are taken up by the black pigment of ;:he ciliary processes. In Albinoes, where there is an absence of pig- . nentum nigrum, the rays of light traverse the iris, and even the scle- •otic, and so overwhelm the eye with light, that sight is destroyed, xcept in the dimness of evening or at night. In the manufacture of ; ptical instruments care is taken to colour their interior black with the ame object, the absorption of scattered rays. The transparent lamellated cornea and the humours of the eye have :)r their office the refraction of the rays in such proportion as to direct ; le image in the most favourable manner upon the retina. Where ; le refracting medium is too great, as in over convexity of the cornea ad lens, the image falls short of the retina (myopia, near-sightedness); id where it is too little, the image is thrown beyond the nervous embrane (presbyopia, far-sightedness). These conditions are recti- d by the use of spectacles, which provide a differently refracting edium externally to the eye, and thereby correct the transmission of