MEDULLA OBLONGATA. 429 each side into a thick rounded cord, enters the substance of the cere- bellum under the name of crus cerebelli. There is a groove along its middle which lodges the basilar artery. The pons Varolii is the com- missure of the cerebellum, and associates tbe two lateral lobes in their common function. Resting against the pons, near its posterior border, is the sixth pair of nerves. On the anterior border of the crus cere- belli, at each side, is the thick bundle of filaments belonging. to the fifth nerve, and, Ij'ing against its posterior border, the seventh pair of nerves. The upper surface of the pons forms a part of the floor of the foiu^h ventricle. MEDULLA OBLONGATA. The medulla oblongata (bulbus rhachidicus), is the upper enlarged portion of the spinal cord. It is somewhat conical in shape, and a little more than an inch in length, extending from the pons Varolii to a point corresponding with the upper border of the atlas. On the middle fine, in front and behind, the medulla oblongata is marked by two vertical fissures, the fissura longitudinalis anterior and posterior, which divide it superficially into two symmetrical lateral cords or co- lumns ; whilst each lateral column is subdivided by minor grooves into three smaller cords, namely, the corpora pyramidalia, corpora olivaria, and corpora restiformia. The Corpora pyramidalia are two narrow convex cords, tapering slightly from above downwards, and situated one on either side of the fissura longitudinalis anterior. At about an inch below the pons the corpora pyramidalia communicate very freely across the fissure by a decussation of their fibres, and at their point of entrance into the pons they are constricted into roimd cords. The fissura longitudinalis is somewhat enlarged by this constriction, and the enlarged space has re- ceived the name of foramen caecum of the medulla oblongata. The Corpora olivaria (named from some resemblance to the shape of an olive), are two oblong, oval-shaped, convex bodies, of about the same breadth with the corpora pyramidalia, about half an inch in length, and somewhat larger above than below. The corpus olivare is situated immediately external to the corpus pyramidale, from which, and from the corpus restiforme, it is separated by a well-marked groove. In this groove some longitudinal fibres are seen which enclose the base of the corpus olivare, and have been named funiculi siliquce, those which lie to its inner side being the funiculus intemus, and those to its outer side the funiculus externus. Besides these there are other fibres which cross the corpus olivare obliquely, these* are the fibres ar- ciformes- When examined by section (Fig. 146), the coi-pus olivare is found to be a ganglion deeply embedded in the medulla oblongata, and meeting its fellow at the middle line behind the corpus pyramidale. The ganglion of the corpus olivare (corpus dentatum, nucleus olivse), like that of the cerebellum, is a yellowish-grey dentated capsule, open behind, and containing medullary substance from which a fasciculus