200 MUSCLES OF THE BACK. Third Layer. Dissection.—The third layer consists of muscles which arise from the spinous processes of the vertebral column, and pass outwards. It is brought into view by dividing the levator anguli scapulaj near its insertion, and reflecting the two rhomboid muscles upwards from their insertion into the scapula. The latter muscles should now be removed. The Serratus posticus superior is situated at the upper part of the thorax; it arises from the ligamentum nuchae, the spinous process of the last cervical and those of the two upper dorsal vertebrae. The muscle passes obliquely downwards and outwards, and is inserted by four serrations into the upper border of the second, third, fourth, and fifth ribs. Relations. — By its superficial surface with the trapezius, rhom- boideus major and minor, and serratus magnus. By its deep surface with the splenius, the upper part of the erector spinae, the intercostal muscles and ribs. The Serratus posticus inferior arises from the spinous pro- cesses and interspinous ligaments of the last two dorsal and two upper lumbar vertebrae, and passing obliquely upwards is inserted bj' four serrations into the lower border of the four lower ribs. Both muscles are constituted by a thin aponeurosis for about half their extent. Relations.—By its superficial surface with the latissimus dorsi, its tendinous origin being inseparably connected with the aponeurosis of that muscle. By its deep surface with the aponeurosis of the obliquus internus, with which it is also closely adherent ; with the erector spinae, the intercostal muscles and lower ribs. The upp>er border is continuous with a thin tendinous layer, the vertebral aponeurosis. The VeHebral aponeurosis is a thin membranous expansion composed of longitudinal and transverse fibres, and extending the whole length of the thoracic region. It is attached mesially to the spinous pro- cesses of the dorsal vertebrae, and externally to the angles of the ribs ; superiorly it is continued upwards beneath the serratus posticus supe- rior, with the lower border of which it is sometimes connected. It serves to bind down the erector spinae, and separate it from the super- ficial muscles. The serratus posticus superior must be removed from its origin and turned outwards, to bring into view the whole extent of the splenius muscle. The Splenius muscle is single at its origin, but divides soon after into two portions, which are destined to distinct insertions. It arises from the lower half of the ligamentum nuchae, from the spinous pro- cess of the last cervical, and from the spinous processes and interspinous ligaments of the six upper dorsal vertebrae ; it divides as it ascends the neck into the splenius capitis and colli. The splenius capitis is in- serted into the rough surface of the occipital bone between the two curved lines, and into the mastoid portion of the temporal bone.