LIGAMENTS OF THE STERNUM. 130 The superior and inferior costo-stemal ligaments are narrow fasciculi corresponding with the breadth of the cartilage, and connecting its superior and inferior border with the side of the sternum. The synovial membrane is absent in the articulation of the first rib, its cartilage being usually continuous with the sternum ; that of the second rib has an inter-articular ligament, with two synovial mem- branes. The siadh and seventh ribs have several fasciculi of strong ligament- ous fibres, passing from the extremity of their cartilages to the anterior surface of the ensiform cartilage, which latter they are intended to support. They are named the costo-xyphoid ligaments. The sixth, seventh, and eighth, and sometimes Xhe fifth and the ninth costal cartilages, have articulations with each other, and a perfect synovial membrane at each articulation. They are connected by liga- mentous fibres which pass from one cartilage to the other, external and internal ligaments. The ninth and tenth are connected at their extremities by ligament- ous fibres, but have no synovial membranes. Actions.—The movements of the costo-stemal articidations are very trifling ; they are limited to a slight degree of sliding motion. The first rib is the least, and the second the most movable. 8. Articulation of the Sternum.—The pieces of the sternum are connected by means of a thin plate of interosseous cartilage placed be- tween each, and by an anterior and posterior ligament. The fibres of the anterior sternal ligament are longitudinal in direction, but so blended with the anterior costo-stemal ligaments, and the tendinous fibres of origin of the pectoral muscles, as scarcely to be distinguished as a distinct ligament. The posterior sternal ligament is a broad smooth plane of longitudinal fibres, placed upon the posterior surface of the bone, and extending from the manubrium to the ensiform car- tilage. These ligaments contribute very materially to the strength of the sternum and to the elasticity of the front of the chest. 9. Articulation of the Vertebral Column with the Pelvis.—The last lumbar vertebra is connected ^vith the sacrum by the same ligaments with which the various vertebrae are connected to each other ; viz. the anterior and posterior common ligaments, intervertebral substance, ligamenta subflava, capsular ligaments, and inter and supra-spinous ligaments. There are, however, two proper ligaments connecting the vertebral column with the pelvis ; these are, the Lumbo-sacral, Lumbo-iliac. The lumbo-sacral ligament is a thick triangular fasciculus of ligament- ous fibres, connected above with the transverse process of the last lumbar vertebra, and below with the posterior part of the upper bor- der of the sacrum. The lumbo-iliao ligament passes from the apex of the transverse