HUMERUS. 79 . the external nncl internal condyle, the latter heing considerably the longer; and running upwards from the condyles upon the borders of the bone are the condyloid ridges, of which the external is the most ‘ prominent. Immediately in front of the trochlea is a small depression : for receiving the coronoid process of the ulna during flexion of the fore-ann; and immedi- FiQ- 35.* . ately behind it a large and deep fossa, for con- ■ taining the olecranon process in extension. Development. — By seven centres; one for •-the shaft, one for the head, one for the tu- berosities, one for the eminentia capitata, one for the trochlea, and one for each condyle, the internal preceding the external. Ossifica- tion commences in the diaphysis of the hu- merus soon after the clavicle ; in the head and ■ tuberosities, during the second and third years of infantile life ; in the eminentia capitata and trochlea during the third and sixth years ; • and in the condyles during the twelfth and fifteenth. The entire bone is consolidated at twenty. Articulations.—With the glenoid cavity of the scapula, and with the ulna and radius. Attachment of Muscles.—To twenty-four: by the greater tuberosity to the supra-spinatus, in- fra-spinatus, and teres minor; lesser tuberosity, subscapidaris; anterior bicipital ridge, pectoralis major; posterior bicipital ridge and groove, teres major and latissimus dorsi; shaft, external and internal heads of the triceps, deltoid, coraco- brachialis, and brachialis anticus; external con- dyloid ridge and condyle (cotidylus extensorius), extensors and supinators of the fore-arm, viz. supinator longus, extensor carpi radialis lon- gior, extensor carpi radialis brevior, extensor communis digitorum, extensor minimi digiti, extensor carpi ulnaris, anconeus, and supinator brevis; internal con- dyle (condylus fexorius), flexors and one pronator, viz. pronator radii teres, flexor carpi radialis, palmaris longus, flexor sublimis digitorum, and flexor carpi ulnaris. • The humerus of the right side; its anterior surface. 1. Tlie sliaft of the bone. 2. The head. 3. I he anatomical neck. 4. The greater tuborositj'. 5. Tlie lesser tuberosity. 6. The bicipital groove. 7. 'Iho anterior bicipital ridge. 8. 'I’ho posterior bicipital ridge. 9. The rough surface into which the deltoid is inserted. 10. The nutritious foramen. 11. The eminentia capitata. 12 The trochlea. 13. The external condyle. 14. The internal condyle. 16. Tlie extcnial condyloid ridge. 16. The internal condyloid ridge. 17. The fossa for the coronoid process of the ulna.