STRUCTURE OF THE EPIDIDYMIS. 615 meter of the tubuli seminiferi, the with each other near their extremities, terminating in loops or in free cmcal ends, and of the same diameter inch, Lauth) through- out. The tubuli seminiferi are of a bright yellow colour ; they become less convoluted in the apices of the lobules, and terminate by forming between twenty and thirty small straight ducts of about t^vice the dia- vasa recta. The vasa recta enter the substance of the mediastinum, and tenuinate in from seven to thirteen ducts, smaller in diameter than the vasa recta. These ducts pursue a waving course from below upwards through the fibrous tissue of the mediastinum ; they communicate freely with each other, and constitute the rete testis. At the upper extre- mity of the mediastinum, the ducts of the rete testis terminate in from nine to thirty small ducts, the vasa effcrentia.,\ which form by their con- volutions a series of conical masses, the coni vascidosi; from the bases of these cones tubes of larger size proceed, which constitute, by their complex convolutions, the body of the epididymis. The tubes become gradually larger towards the lower end of the epididymis, and terminate in a single large and convoluted duct, the vas deferens. The Epididymis is formed by the convolutions of the excretory seminal ducts, externally to the testis, and previously to their termi- nation in the vas deferens. The more numerous convolutions and the aggregation of the coni vasculosi at the upper end of the organ consti- tute the globus major; the continuation of the convolutions downwards is the body; and the smaller number of convolutions of the single tube at the lower extremity, the globus minor. The tubuli are connected together by a very delicate areolar tissue, and are enclosed by the tunica vaginalis. * Anatomy of the testis. 1,1. The tunica albuginea. 2, 2. The mediastinum testis. 3, 3. The lobuli testis. 4, 4. The vasa recta. 5. The rete testis. 6. The vasa efferentia, of which six only are represented in this diagram. 7. The coni vasculosi, consitnting the globus major of the epididymis. 8. The body of the epididymis. 9. The globus minor of the epididymis. 10. The vas deferens. 11. The vasculum aberrans. t Each vas efferens with its cone measures, according to Lauth, about 8 inches. The entire length of the tubes composing the epididymis, according to the same authority, is about 21 feet. ^ Fig. 193.*