5G0 PLEUR/B.—MEDIASTINUM. often in the adult, are quite black, and filled with carbonaceous matter,' and occasionally with calccureous deposits. The Nerves are derived from the pneumogastric and sympathetic. They form two plexuses; anterior ■pulmonary plexus^ situated upon the front of the root of the lungs, and composed chiefly of filaments from the great cardiac plexus; and posterior pulmonary plexus, on the posterior aspect of the root of the lungs, composed principally of branches from the pneumogastric. The branches from these plexuses follow the course of the bronchial tubes, and are distributed to the in- tercellular passages and air-cells. PLEURAJ. Each lung is enclosed, and its structure maintained, by a serous membrane, the pleura, which invests it as far as the root, and is then reflected upon the parietes of the chest. That portion of the membrane which is in relation with the lung is called pleura pulmo- nalis, and that in contact with the parietes, pleura costalis. The reflected portion, besides forming the internal lining to the ribs and intercostal muscles, also covers the diaphragm and the thoracic surface of the vessels at the root of the neck. The pleura must be dissected from off the root of the lung, to see the vessels by which it is formed, and the pulmonary plexuses. MEDIASTINUM. The approximation of the two reflected pleurae in the middle line of the thorax forms a septum, which divides the chest into the two ^ pulmonary cavities. This is the mediastinum. The two pleurae are not, however, in contact with each other at the middle line in the formation of the mediastinum, but have a space between them which | contains all the viscera of the chest with the exception of the lungs; j The mediastinum is divided into the anterior, middle, and posterior. | The Anterior mediastinum is a triangular space, bounded in front by i the sternum, and on each side by the pleura. It contains a quantity | of loose areolar tissue, in which are found some lymphatic vessels I passing upwards from the liver, the remains of the thymus gland, the origins of the stemo-hyoid, sterno-thyroid, and triangularis stemi muscles, and the internal mammary vessels of the left side. The Middle mediastinum contains the heart enclosed in its peri- cardium ; the ascending aorta ; the superior vena cava ; the bifurca- tion of the trachea; the pulmonary arteries and veins; and the phrenic nerves. The Posterior rnediastinum is bounded behind by the vertebral column, in front by the pericardium, and on each side by the pleura. It contains the descending aorta; the greater and lesser az}’gos veins, the superior intercostal vein; the thoracic duct; the oesophagus and pneumogastric nerves, and the great splanchnic nerves.