199 RHOMBOIDEI. wards, with the erector spiiicE, seiTatus posticus inferior, intercostal muscles and ribs, rhomboideus major, inferior angle of the scapula, and teres major. The latissimus dorsi, with the teres major, forms the posterior border of the axilla. Second Layer. Dissection.—This layer is brought into view by dividing the two preceding muscles near their insertion, and turning them to the op- posite side. The Levator anguli scapulae arises by distinct slips, from the posterior tubercles of the transverse processes of the foim upper cer- vical vertebrae, and is inserted into the upper angle and posterior bor- der of the scapula, as far as the triangular smooth surface at the root of its spine. Relations.—By its supei'ficial surface with the trapezius, stemo- mastoid, and integument. By its deep surface with the splenius colli, transversalis colli, cervicalis ascendens, scalenus posticus, and serratus posticus superior. The tendons of origin are interposed between the attachments of the scalenus posticus in front and the splenius colli behind. The Rho.mboideus minor (rhombus, a parallelogram with four equal sides) is a narrow slip of muscle, detached from the rhomboideus major b}' a slight areolar interspace. It arises from the spinous pro- cess of the last cervical vertebra and ligamentum nuchas, and is in- serted into the edge of the triangular suil'ace, on the posterior border of the scapula. The Rhomboideus major aHses from the spinous processes of the four upper dorsal vertebrae and from the inter-spinous ligaments; it is inserted into the posterior border of the scapula as far as its inferior angle. The upper and middle portion of the insertion is effected by means of a tendinous band which is attached in a longitudinal direc- tion to the posterior border of the scapula. Relations.—By their supeifcial suface the two rhomboid muscles are in relation with the trapezius, and the rhomboideus major with the latissimus dorsi and integument. By their deep surface they cover in the serratus posticus superior, part of the erector spinse, the intercostal muscles and ribs. splenius is seen attached to the spinous processes below the lower border of the rhomboideus major. 15. The vertebral aponeurosis. 16. The seiTatus posticus inferior. 17. Tlie supra-spinatus muscle. 18. The infra-spiuatus. 19. The tere.s minor muscle. 20. The teres major. 21. The long head of the triceps, passing between the teres minor and major to the upper arm. 22. The serratus magnus, proceeding forwards from its origin at the base of the scapula. 23. The internal oblique muscle.