527 STRUCTURE OF THE DERMA. cavities with the lining membrane of those cavities, the internal skin or mucous membrane, and is composed essentially of two layers, derma and epiderma. The DER.MA or cutis is chiefly composed of areolo-fibrous tissue, besides which it has entering into its structiu’e elastic and contractile flbrous tissue, together \vith blood-vessels, lymphatic vessels and nerves. The areolo-fibrous tissue exists in greatest abundance in the deeper stratum of the derma, which is consequently dense, white, and coarse ; the superficial stratum, on the other hand, is fine in texture, reddish in colour, soft, raised into minute papillae, and highly vascular and sensitive. These differences in structure have given rise to a division of the derma into the deep stratum, or corium, and the super- ficial, or papillary layer. In the Corium the areolo-fibrous tissue is collected into fasciculi, which are small and closely interwoven in the superficial strata, large and coarse in the deep strata'; in the latter forming an areolar network with large areolas, which are occupied by adipose tissue. These areolae are the channels by which the branches of vessels and nerves find a safe passage to the papillary layer, in which and in the superfi- cial strata of the corium they are principally distributed. The yeUow elastic tissue is found chiefly in the superficial strata, the red con- tractile tissue in the deep. It is to the latter that the nipples and scrotum owe their contractile powers, and the general surface of the skin the contraction which is known by the name of cutis anserina. The corium presents some variety in thickness in different parts of the body. Thus in the more exposed regions, as the back, the outer sides of the limbs, the palms, and the soles, it is remarkable for its thickness ; while on protected parts it is comparatively thin. On the eyelids, the penis, and the scrotum it is peculiarly delicate. It is connected by its under surface with the common superficial fascia of the body. The Papillary layer of the derma is raised in the form of conical prominences or papiUae. On the general surface of the body the papillae are short and exceedingly minute ; but in other situations, as the palmar surface of the hands and fingers, and the plantar surface of the feet and toes, they are long and of large size. They also differ in arrangement; for, on the general surface they are distributed at equal distances and without order; whereas, on the palms and soles, and on the corresponding surfaces of the fingers and toes, they are collected into little square clumps containing from ten to twenty papillae ; and these little clumps are disposed in parallel rows. It is this arrangement in rows that gives rise to the characteristic pa- rallel ridges and furrows which are met with on the hands and feet. The papiUae in these little square clumps are for the most part uni- form in size and length, but every here and there one papilla maj^ be observed which is longer than the rest. The largest papillas of the derma are those which produce the nail; in the dermal follicle of the nail they are long and filiform, while beneath its concave surface