NASAL FOSS^. 497 The whole of these fibro-cartilages are connected with each other and to the bones, by perichondrium, which, from its membranous structure, permits of the freedom of motion existing between them. 5. The Mucous membrane, lining the interior of the nose, is con- tinuous with the skin externally, and with the pituitary membrane of the nasal fossae within. Around the entrance of the nostrils it is pro- vided with numerous vibrissce. 6. I cjise/s and Nerves.—The Arteries of the nose are the lateralis nasi from the facial, and the nasalis septi from the superior coronary. Its Nerves are, the facial, infra-orbital, and nasal branch of the ophthalmic. NASAL FOSSiE. To obtain a good view of the nasal fossce, the face must be divided through the nose by a vertical incision, a little to one side of the middle line. The Nasal fossce are two irregular compressed cavities, extending backwards from the nose to the pharynx. They are bounded swpe- riorly by the lateral cartilage of the nose, and by the nasal, sphenoid, and ethmoid bones ; inferiorly by the hard palate; and, in the middle line, they are separated from each other by a bony and fibro-cartilagi- nous septum. A plan of the boundaries of the nasal fossae will be found at page 62. Upon the outer wall of each fossa, in the dried skull, are three i projecting processes, termed spongy bones. The two superior belong to the ethmoid, the inferior is a separate bone. In the fresh fossae these are covered with mucous membrane, and serve to increase the surface of that membrane by their prominence and convoluted form. The space intervening between the superior and middle spongy bone is the superior meatus ; the space between the middle and inferior the middle meatus; and that between the inferior and the floor of the fossa the inferior meatus. These meatuses are passages which extend from before backwards, and it is in rushing through and amongst these that the atmosphere deposits its odorant particles upon the mucous membrane. There are several openings into the nasal fossae: thus, in the superior meatus . are the openings of the sphenoidal and posterior ethmoidal cells; in ' the middle the anterior ethmoidal cells, the frontal sinuses, and the : antnun maxillare ; and, in the inferior meatus, the termination of the I nasal duct. In the dried bone there are two additional openings, the * spheno-palatine and the anterior palatine foramen ; the former being f situated in the superior, and the latter in the inferior meatus. The Mucous membrane of the nasal fossae is called pituitary, or . Schneiderian.* The former name being derived from the nature of its * Conrad Victor Schneider, professor of Medicine at Wittenberg. His work, ^ entitled Be Catarrhis, &c. was published in 1661. K K