STRUCTURE OF THE EPIDERMA. 530 arc perfected in the deepest layer of the epiderma ; and, in its in- ternal structure, it is a parent cell containing secondary and tertiar}' cells and granules, its growth being the result of the growth of these secondary formations. The under surface of the epiderma is accurately modelled on the papillary layer of the derma, each papilla having its appropriate sheath in the newly-formed epiderma or rete mucosum, and each irregularity of surface of the former having its representative in the soft tissue of the latter. On the external surface, this character is lost; the minute elevations corresponding with the papillaj, are, as it were, polished down, and the surface is rendered smooth and uniform. The palmar and plantar surfaces of the hands and feet are, however, an exception to this rule ; for here, in consequence of the large size of the papillae and their peculiar arrangement in rows, ridges corresponding with the papillae are strongly marked on the superficial surface of the epiderma. The epiderma is remarkable for its thickness in situations where the papillae are large, as in the palms and soles. In other situations, it assumes a character which is also due to the nature of the surfece of the derma; namely, that of being marked by a network of linear fur- rows, which trace out the surface into small polygonal and lozenge- shaped areae. These lines correspond with the folds of the derma pro- duced by its movements, and are most numerous where those move- ments are the greatest, as in the flexures and on the convexities of joints. The dark colour of the skin among the natives of the South is due to the coloration of the primitive granules of which the cell is com- posed, especially the nucleus. As the cells desiccate, the colour of the granules is gradually lost; hence the deeper hue of the rete mucosum. The joomof the epiderma are the openings of the perspiratorj’ ducts, hair follicles, and sebiparous glands. ■, Vessels and Nerves.—The Arteries of the derma which enter its i structure through the areolae of the under surface of the corium, divide i into innumerable intermediate vessels, which form a rich capillary j plexus in the superficial strata of the skin and in its papillary layer, j In the papillae of some parts of the derma, as in the longitudinal pli- > cations beneath the nail, the capillary vessels form simple loops, but in other papillae they are convoluted to a greater or less degree in pro- portion to the size and importance of the papillae. The Lyinphaiic vessels probably form, in the superficial strata of the derma, a plexus, the meshes of which are interwoven with those of the capillary and nervous plexus. No lymphatics have as yet been discovered in the papillae. The Nerves of the derma, after entering the areolae of the deeper part of the corium, divide into minute fiisciculi, which form a terminal plexus in the upper strata of the corium. From this plexus the primi- tive fibres pass off to their distribution, as loops, in the papilla. In the less sensitive parts of the skin the loops are simple and more or less acute in their bend, in conformity with the figiue of the papilla.