524 DISTIUUUTION OF THE AUDITORY NERVE. probably retained in form by a reflection of the lining membrane of the membranous labyrinth. They are found suspended in the liquor Scarpae; one in the sacculus communis, the other in the sacculus pro- prius, from that part of each sac with which the nerves are connected. The Auditory nerve divides into two branches at the bottom of the cul de sac of the meatus auditorius intemus ; a vestibular nerve and a cochlear nerve. The vestibular nerve, the most posterior of the two, divides into three branches, superior, middle, and inferior. The superior vestibular branch gives off a number of filaments which pass through the minute openings of the eminentia pyramidalis and superior ventricle of the vestibule, and' are distributed to the sacculus communis and ampullm of the perpendicular and horizontal semicircular canals. The middle vestibular branch sends off numerous filaments, which pass through the openings of the macula cribrosa in the anterior ventricle of the vestibule, and are distributed to the sacculus proprius. The inferior and smallest branch takes its course backwards to the posterior wail of the vestibule, and gives off filaments which pierce the wall of the ampullary dilatation of the oblique canal to be distributed upon its ampulla. According to Stiefensand there is in the situation of the point of entrance of the nervous filaments into the ampulla a deep depression upon the exterior of the membrane, and upon the in- terior a corresponding projection, which forms a kind of transverse septum, partially dividing the cavity of the ampulla into two cham- bers. In the substance of the sacculi and ampullae, the nervous fila- ments radiate in all directions, anastomosing with each other and form- ing interlacements and loops, and they terminate upon the inner sur- face of the membrane in minute papillae, resembling those of the retina. Tlie Cochlear nerve divides into numerous filaments which enter the foramina of the tractus spiralis foraminulentus in the base of the cochlea, and passing upwards in the canals of the modiolus, bend outwards at right angles, to be distributed in the tissue of the lamina spiralis. The central portion of the nerve passes through the tubulus centralis of the modiolus, and supplies the apicial portion of the lamina spiralis. In the lamina spiralis the nervous filaments lying side by side on an even plane form numerous anastomosing loops, and spread out into a nervous membrane. According to Treviranus and Gottsche, the ultimate terminations of the filaments assume the fonn of papillae. The Artenes of the labj'^ririth are derived principally from the audi- tory branch of the superior cerebellar artery. ORGAN OF TASTE. The Tongue is composed of muscular fibres, which are distributed in layers arranged in various directions ; thus, some are disposed longi- tudinally; others transversely; others, again, obliquely vendi vertically.