SUPERIOR MAXILLARY BONES, 43 articulated skull by the ethmoid, palate, lachrymal, and inferior turbi- nated bones. The cavity of the antrum is somewhat triangular, corre- sponding in shape with the form of the body of the bone. Upon its inner wall are numerous grooves, lodging branches of the superior max- ilhiry nerve, and projecting into its floor several conical processes, corre- sponding with the roots of the first and second molar teeth. In front of the opening of the antrum is the strong ascending plate of the nasal process, marked inferiorly by a rough horizontal ridge (crista turbina- lis inferior), which gives attachment to the inferior turbinated bone. The concave depression immediately above this ridge corresponds with the middle meatus of the nose, and that below the ridge with the in- ferior meatus. Between the nasal process and the opening of the an- tnim, is a deep vertical groove (sulcus lachrymalis), which is converted into a canal by the lachrymal and inferior turbinated bone, and con- stitutes the nasal duct. The superior border of the nasal surface is irregularly cellular, and articulates with the lachrymal and ethmoid bone ; the posterior border is rough, and articulates with the palate bone ; the anterior border is sharp, and forms the free margin of the opening of the nose; and from the inferior border projects inwards a strong horizontal plate, the palate process. The posterior surface may be called zygomatic^ fi:om forming part of the zygomatic fossa; it is bounded externally by the malar process, and internally by a rough and rounded border, the tuberosity, which is pierced by a number of small foramina (foramina alveolaria posteriora), giving passage to the posterior dental nerves and branches of the superior dental artery. The lower part of this tuberosity presents a rough oval surface, to articulate with the palate bone, and immediately above and to the inner side of this articular surface a smooth groove, which forms part of the posterior palatine canal. The superior border is smooth and rounded to form the lower boundary of the spheno- maxillary fissure, and is marked by a notch, the commencement of the infra-orbital canal. The inferior boundary is the alveolar process, containing the last two molar teeth. The orbital surface is triangular and thin, and constitutes the floor of the orbit. It is bounded internally by an irregular edge, which articulates with the palate, ethmoid, and lachrymal bone; posteriorly, by the smooth border which enters into the formation of the spheno- maxillary fissure ; and, anteriorly, by a convex margin, partly smooth and partly rough, the smooth portion forming part of the lower border of the orbit, and the rough articulating with the malar bone. The middle of this surface is channelled by a deep groove and canal, the infra-orbital, which terminates at the infra-orbital foramen ; and near the root of the nasal process is a slight depression, marking the origin of the inferior oblique muscle of the eyeball. The four processes of the superior maxillary bone are the nasal, malar, alveolar, and palate. I he nasal process ascends by the side of the nose, to which it forms the lateral boundary, and articulates with the frontal and nasal bone.