INTKKNAL KKMOIlAl, UKUION. •2()0 IMutioiis.—By its (inferior sur/aat with tlip pubic j)ortion of tlie fivsoiii lata, ami near its insertion witli the feinonil artery and vein. By its jmterior sur/tuv with the adductor brevis and nmjfmis, the an- terior branches of the obturator vessels and nerves, and near its inser- tion with the profunda artery and vein. By its oiiU r border witli the pectineus, and by the inner border with the gnicilis. Tlie pectineus must be divided near its origin and turned ontwanls, and the adductor longus through its middle, turning its ends to either side, to bring into view the adductor brevis. The Adductor brevis, placed beneath the pectineus and adductor longus, is fleshy, and thicker than tlie adductor longus ; it arisi a from the body and nunus of the os pubis, and is inserted into the upper third of the linea aspera. Relations.—By its anterior surface witli the pectineus, adductor lon- gus. and anterior branches of the obturator vessels and nerve. By its j.>osterior surfaee with the adductor magnus, and posterior branches of the obturator vessels and nerve. By its outer border with the obtu- rator e.\ternns, and conjoined tendon of the psoas and iliaens. By its inner border with the gracilis and adductor magnus. The adductor brevis is pierced near its insertion by the middle perfoi-ating artery. The adductor brevis may now be divided from its origin and turned outwards, or its inner two-thirds may be cut away entirely, when the adductor magnus muscle will be exposed in its entire extent. The Adductor siagnus is a broad tiiangular muscle, forming a septum of division between the muscles situated on the anterior and those on the posterior aspect of the thigh. It arises by fleshy fibres from the ramus of the pubes and ischium and froyi the side of the tuber ischii; and radiating in its passage outwards, is inserted into the whole length of the linea aspera, and inner condyle of the femur. The adductor magnus is pierced by five openings : the three superior, for the three perforating lU’teries ; and the fourth, for the tenuination of the profunda. The fifth is the hu-ge oval opening, in the tendinous portion of the muscle, that gives passage to the femoral vessels. Relations.—By its anterior surfaee with the pectineus, adductor brevis, adductor longus, femoral artery and vein, profunda arterj' and vein, with their branches, and with the posterior branches of the obturator vessels and nerve. By its posterior sinface with the semi- tendinosus, semi-membi'anosus, biceps, and gluteus maximns. By its i?iner border with the gracilis and sartorius. By its wjo/xT border with the obturator externus, and quadratus femoris. The Gracilis (slender) is situated along the inner border of the thigh. It arises by a broad but very thin tendon, from the body of the os pubis along the edge of the symphysis, and from the margin of the ramus of the pubes and ischium; and is inserted by a rounded tendon into the inner tuberosity of the tibia, beneath the expansion of the sartorius.- Relations.—By its inner or superficial stirface with the fascia lata, and below with the sartorius and internal saphenous nerve ; the in-