329 ulnar artery. The Carpal branches ai-e intended for the supply of the wrist, the anterior carpal in front, and the posterior, the larger of the two, behind. The carpalis posterior crosses the carpus transversely to the ulnar border of the hand, where it inosculates with the posterior carpal branch of the ulnar artery. Superiorly it sends branches which inos- culate with the termination of the anterior interosseous artery ; infe- riorly it gives off posterior interosseous branches, which anastomose with the perforating branches of the deep palmar arch, and then run forward upon the dorsal interossei muscles. The Metacarpal branch runs forward on the second dorsal interos- seous muscle, and inosculates with the digital branch of the superficial palmar arch, which supplies the adjoining sides of the index and mid- dle fingers. Sometimes it is of lai'ge size, and the true continuation ' of the radial artery. The Dorsales pollicis are two small branches which ran along the sides of the dorsal aspect of the thumb. The Princeps pollicis descends along the border of the metacarpal bone, between the abductor indicis and adductor pollicis to the base of : the first phalanx, where it divides into two branches, which are dis- : tributed to the two sides of the palmar aspect of the thumb. The Radialis indicis is also situated between the abductor indicis and ; the adductor poUicis, and runs along the radial side of the index finger, forming its collateral artery. This vessel is frequently a branch of the princeps pollicis. The Interossew, three or four in number, are branches of the deep palmar arch ; they pass forward upon the interossei muscles, and in- osculate with the digital branches of the superficial arch, opposite the heads of the metacarpal bones. The Perforantes, three in number, pass directly backwards between -the heads of the dorsal interossei muscles, and inosculate with the posterior interosseous arteries. ULNAR ARTERY. The Ulnar artery, the other division of the brachial artery, crosses !:he arm obliquely to the commencement of its middle third ; it then ■uns down the ulnar side of the fore-arm to the wrist, crosses the an- lular ligament, and forms the superficial palmar arch, which terminates ' jy inosculating -with the superficialis volae. Relations.—In the upper or oblique portion of its course, it lies ;ipon the brachialis anticus and flexor profundus digitoram; and is f overed in by the superficial layer of muscles of the fore-arm and by fhe median nerve. In the second part of its course, it is placed upon 2 he flexor profundus and pronator quadratus, lying between the flexor aarpi ulnaris and flexor sublimis digitoram. While crossing the annu- 1* ir ligament it is protected from injur}’- by a strong tendinous arch, :hrown over it from the pisiform bone ; and in the palm it rests upon : he tendons of the flexor sublimis, being covered in by the palmaris