ERECTILE TISSUE. —URETHRA. (i08 anterior extremity. The bulb is adherent to the deep perineal fascia by means of the tubular prolongation of the anterior layer, which sur- rounds the membranous portion of the urethra ; in the rest of its extent the corpus spongiosum is attached to the corpus cavemosum by areolar tissue, and by veins which wind around that body to reach the dorsal vein. It is composed of erectile tissue, enclosed by a dense fibrous layer, much thinner than that of the corpus cavemosum, and contains in its interior the spongy portion of the urethra, which lies nearer its upper than its lower wall. Erectile tissue is a peculiar cellule-vascular stracture, entering in considerable proportion into the composition of the organs of genera- tion. It consists essentially of a plexus of veins so closely convoluted and interwoven with each other, as to give rise to a cellular appear- ance when examined by means of a section. The veins forming this plexus are smaller in the glans penis, corpus spongiosum, and circum- ference of the corpus cavemosum, than in the central part of the latter, where they are large and dilated. They have no other coat than the internal lining prolonged from the neighbouring veins ; and the inter- stices of the plexus are occupied by a peculiar reddish fibrous tissue. They receive their blood from the capillaries of the arteries in the same manner with veins generally, and not by means of vessels having a peculiar form and distribution, as described by Miiller. The helicine arteries of that physiologist have no existence. Vessels and Nerves.—The arteries of the penis are derived from the internal pudic ; they are, the arteries of the bulb, arteries of the corpus cavemosum, and dorsales penis. Its veins are superficial and deep. The deep veins run by the side of the deep arteries, and ter- minate in the internal pudic veins. The superficial veins escape in considerable number from the base of the glans, and converge on the dorsum penis, to form a large dorsal vein, which receives other veins from the corpus cavemosum and spongiosum in its course, and passes backwards between two layers of the ligamentum suspensorium, and through the deep fascia beneath the arch of the os pubis, to terminate in the prostatic and vesical plexuses. The Lymphatics terminate in the inguinal glands. The nerves are derived from the internal pudic nerve, from the sacral plexus, and, as shewn by Professor Muller, in his beautiful monograph, from the hypogastric plexus. URETHRA. The urethra is the membranous canal extending from the neck of the bladder to the meatus urinarius. It is curved in its course, and is composed of two layers, a mucous coat and an elastic fibrous coat. The mucous coat is thin and smooth ; it is continuous, internally, with the mucous membrane of the bladder; externally, with the in- vesting membrane of the glans; and at certain points of its extent, with the lining membrane of the numerous ducts which open into the