47 PALATE BONES. forming the posterior part of the hard palate. The superior surface is conciive and rises towards the middle line, where it unites Avith its fellow of the opposite side and forms part of a crest (crista nasalis), which articulates with the vomer. The inferior surface is uneven, and marked bj' a slight transverse ridge, to which is attached the tendinous expansion of the tensor palati muscle. Near its e.xternal border ai’e two openings, one large and one small, the paste nor palatine foramina; the former transmits the posterior pala- tine nerve and artery, and the latter the middle palatine nerve. The posterior border is concave, and presents at its inner extremity a sharp point, which with a corresponding point in the opposite bone constitutes the palate spine for the attachment of the azygos uvulm muscle. The perpendicular plate is also quadrilateral; and presents two sur- faces, one internal or nasal, forming a part of the wall of the nares; the other external, bounding the spheno-maxillary fossa and antrum. The internal surface is marked near its middle by a horizontal ridge (crista turbinalis inferior), to Avhich is united the inferior turbinated bone; and, at about half an inch above this is another ridge (crista turbinalis superior) for the attachment of the middle turbinated bone. The concave surface below the inferior ridge is the lateral boundary of the inferior meatus of the nose ; that between the two ridges corre- sponds with the middle meatus, and the surface above the superior ridge Avith the superior meatus. The eodernal surface, extremely irre- gular, is rough on each side for articulation Avith neighbouring bones, and smooth in the middle to constitute the inner boundary of the spheno-maxillar}' fossa. This smooth surface terminates inferiorly in a deep grooA-e, Avhich being completed by the tuberosity of the supe- rior maxillarj' bone and pterj'goid process of the sphenoid, forms the posterior jxdatine canal. Near the upper part of the perpendicular plate is a large oval notch completed by the sphenoid, the splieno-palutine foramen, Avhich trans- mits the spheno-palatine nerves and artery, and serves to divide the upper extremity of the bone into tAvo portions, an anterior or orbital, and a posterior or sphenoidal portion. The orbital portion is holloAv within, and presents five surfaces externally, three articular, and tAvo free; the three articular are the anterior, which looks forAvard and ar- ticulates Avith the superior maxillary bone, the internal Avith the eth- moid, and the posterior Avith the sphenoid. The free surfaces are the forms the crista nasalis for the reception of the A’omer. 6. The pointed pro- cess, which, with a similar process of the opposite bone forms the palate spine. 6. Tlie horizontal ridge wliich gives attachment to the inferior tm'binated bone; the concavity below tliis ridge enters into the fonnation of the inferior meatus, •and tlie concaA’ity (2) above the ridge into tliat of the middle meatus. 7. TIio • spheno-palatine notch. 8. The orbital portion. 9. The crista turbinalis supe- • rior for the middle turbinated bone. 10. The middle facet of the tuberosity, which enters into the formation of the pterj’goid fossa. The facets 11 and 3 articulate with the two pterj’goid plates, 11 with the internal, and 3 with the ■ external.