465 EXTERNAL CUTANEOUS NERVE. vertebral foramina. It passes down behind the plexus and axillary ves- sels, resting on the scalenus posticus muscle; it then descends along the side of the chest upon the serratus magnus muscle to its lowest ser- ration. It sends numerous filaments to this muscle. The Suprascapular nerve arises above the clavicle from the fifth cer- vical nerve and descends obliquely outwards to the supra-scapular notch; it then passes through the notch, crosses the supra-spinous fossa be- neath the supra-spinatus muscle, and passing in front of the concave margin of the spine of the scapula enters the infra-spinous fossa. It is distributed to the supra-spinatus and infra-spinatus muscle. The Suhscapular nei-ves are two in number; one arises from the brachial plexus above the clavicle, the other from the posterior aspect of the plexus within the axilla. They are distributed to the subscapu- laris muscle. The Inferior muscular nerves are two or three branches which pro- ceed from the lower and back part of the brachial plexus, and are dis- tributed to the latissimus dorsi and teres major. The former of these is the longer, and follows the course of the subscapular artery. The terminal branches of the plexus are arranged in the following order: the external cutaneous, and one head of the median to the outer side of the artery; the other head of the median, internal cutaneous, lesser internal cutaneous, and ulnar, upon its inner side; and the cir- cumflex and musculo-spiral behind. The External cutaneous nerve (musculo-cutaneous, perforans Casserii) arises from the brachial plexus in common with the external head of the median; it pierces the coraco-brachialis muscle and passes between the biceps and brachialis anticus, to the outer side of the bend of the elbow, where it perforates the fascia, and divides into an external and an internal branch. These branches pass behind the me- dian cephalic vein, the extemal,^e larger of the two, taking the course of the radial vein and communicating with the branches of the radial nerve on the back of the hand; the internal and smaller following the direction of the supinator longus, communicating with the internal cutaneous, and at the lower third of the fore-arm sending off a twig, which accompanies the radial artery to the wrist, and distributes fila- ments to the synovial membranes of the joint. The external cutaneous nerve supplies the coraco-brachialis, biceps : and brachialis anticus in the upper arm,-and the integument of the outer side of the fore-arm as far as the wrist and hand. The Internal cutaneous nerve is one of the internal and smaller branches of the axillary plexus; it arises from the plexus in common with the ulnar and internal head of the median, and passes down the inner side of the arm in company with the basilic ' vein, giving off several cutaneous filaments in its course. At about • the middle of the upper arm it pierces the deep fascia by the side of the basilic vein and divides into two branches, anterior and H H