196 MUSCLES OF THE BACK. abdomen. The muscles of which it is composed are numerous, and may be arranged into six layers. Transversalis colli, T rachelo-mastoideus, Complexus. Fifth Layer. (Dorsal Group.) Semi-spinalis dorsi, Semi-spinalis colli. (Cervical Group.) Rectus anticus major, Rectus anticus minor. Rectus lateralis, Obliquus inferior, Obliquus superior. Sixth Layer. Multifidus spinae, Levatores costarum, Supra-spinalis, Inter-spinales, Inter-transversales. First Layer. Dissection.—The muscles of this lajmr are to be dissected by making an incision along the middle line of the back, from the tubercle on the occipital bone to the coccyx. From the upper point of this incision carry a second along the side of the neck, to the middle of the clavicle. Inferiorlj'’ an incision must be made from the extremity of the sacrum, along the crest of the ilium, to about its middle. For convenience of dissection, a fourth may be carried from the middle of the spine to the acromion process. The integument and superficial fascia, together, are to be dissected off the muscles in the course of their fibres, over the whole of this region. The Trapezius muscle (trapezium, a quadrangle with unequal sides) arises from the superior curved line of the occipital bone, from the ligamentum nuchas, supra-spinous ligament, and spinous processes of the last cervical and all the dorsal vertebrae. The fibres converge from these various points, and are inserted into the scapular third of the clavicle, the acromion process, and the whole length of the upper border of the spine of the scapula. The inferior fibres become tendi- nous near the scapula, and glide over the triangular surface at the posterior extremity of its spine, upon a bursa mucosa. When the trapezius is dissected on both sides, the two muscles resemble a tra- First Layer, Trapezius, X«atissimus dorsi. Second Layer. Levator anguli scapulm, Rhomboideus minor, Rhomboideus major. Third layer. Serratus posticus superior, Serratus posticus inferior, Splenius capitis, Splenius colli. Fourth Ijuyer. (Dorsal Group.) Sacro-lumbalis, Longissimus dorsi. Spinalis dorsi. (Cervical Group.) Cervicalis ascendens.