86 UNCIFORME. Fig. 38.t The UNCIFORME is a triangular-shaped hone, remarkahle for a long and curved process, which projects from its palmar aspect. It pre- sents five surfaces;—three articular, and two free. One of the arti- cular surfaces is divided by a slight ridge into two facets; the other two converge, and meet at a flattened angle.* One of the free sur- faces, the dorsal, is rough and triangular; the other, palmar, also tri- angular, but somewhat smaller, gives origin to the unciform process. If the bone be held perpendicularly, so that the articular surface with two facets look upwards, and the unciform process backwards (towards the holder), the concavity of the unciform process will point to the hand to which the bone belongs. Arliculations.—With_^i>e bones : by the two facets on its base, with the fourth and fifth metacarpal bones; by the two lateral articu- lating surfaces, with the magnum and cuneiforme; and by the flat- tened angle of its apex, with the semilunare. Attachments.—To two muscles, adductor minimi digiti, and flexor brevis minimi digiti; and by the hook-shaped process to the annular ligament. Development.—The bones of the carpus are each developed bj' a single centre; they are cartilagi- nous at birth. Ossification com- mences towards the end of the first year in the os magnum and unci- forme; at the end of the third year, in the cuneiforme; during the fifth j^ai', in the trapezium and se- milunare; during the eighth, in the scaphoides; the ninth, in the trapezoides; and the twelfth, in the pisiforme. The latter bone is the last in the skeleton to ossify; it is, in reality, a sesamoid bone of the tendon of the flexor carpi ulnaris. * When the uncifonne does not articulate with the semilunare, this angle is sharp. t The hand viewed upon its anterior or palmar aspect. 1. The scaphoid bone, 2. Thff semilunare. 3. The cuneiforme. 4. The pisiforme. 5. The trapezium. 6. The groove in the trapezium that lodges the tendon of the flexor carpi radialis. 7. The trapezoides. 8. The os magnum. 9. The nn- ciforme. 10, 10. The five metacarpal bones. 11, 11. The flrst row of phalan- ges. 12, 12. The second row. 13, 13. The third row, or ungual phalanges, 14. The flrst phalanx of the thumb. 15. The second and last phalan.x of the thumb.