I SOFT PALATE. TONSILS.—SALIVARY GLANDS. 569 hardness and insensibility; and for their close contact, without ad- hesion, to the surface of the tooth. From the neck of the tooth they are reflected into the alveolus, and become continuous with the peri- osteal (peridental) membrane of that cavity. The Tongue has been already described as an organ of sense ; it is invested by mucous membrane, which is reflected from its under part I upon the inner surface of the lower jaw, and constitutes, with the I muscles beneath, the floor of the mouth. Upon the under surface of the tongue, near its anterior part, the mucous membrane forms a con- siderable fold, which is called the fraenum linguae; and on each side of the fraenum is a large papilla, the commencement of the duct of the ; • submaxillary gland, and several smaller openings, the apertures of the ! ducts of the sublingual gland. The Soft galate (velum pendulum palati) is a fold of mucous mem- ! brane situated at the posterior part of the mouth. It is continuous, I superiorly, with the hard palate, and is composed of mucous membrane, I paktal glands, and muscles. Hanging from the middle of its inferior I border is a small rounded process, the uvula ; and passing outwards from the uvula on each side are two curved folds of the mucous mem- brane, the arches or pillars of the palate. The anterior pillar is con- tinued downwards to the side of the base of the tongue, and is formed i by the prominence of the palato-glossus muscle. The posterior pillar is prolonged downwards and backwards into the pharynx, and is formed by the convexity of the palato-pharyngeus muscle. These two pillars, closely united above, are separated below by a triangular interval or niche, in which the tonsil is lodged. The Tonsils (amygdalae) are two glandular organs, shaped like almonds, and situated between the anterior and posterior pillar of the soft palate, on each side of the fauces. They are composed of an as- semblage of mucous follicles, which open upon the surface of the gland. Externally, they are invested by the pharyngeal fascia, which sepa- rates them from the superior constrictor muscle and internal carotid arten.', and prevents an abscess from opening in that direction. In re- , lation to surrounding parts, they correspond with the angle of the lower jaw. The space included between the soft palate and the root of the tongue is the isthmus of the fauces. It is bounded above by the soft palate ; on each side by the pillars of the soft palate and tonsils; and below by the root of the tongue. It is the opening between the mouth i and pharj-nx. SALIVARY GLANDS. Communicating with the mouth are the excretory ducts of three pairs of salivary glands, the parotid, submaxillary, and sublingual. The Parotid gland, (traja, near, ol;, arof, the ear,) the largest of the three, is situated immediately in front of the external ear, and extends