74 RIBS. TRUE AND FALSE. and two extremities ; it is curved to correspond with the arch of the thorax, and twisted upon itself, so that, when laid on its side, one end is tilted up, while the other rests upon the surface. The external surface is convex, and marked by the attachment of muscles ; the internal is flat, and corresponds with the pleura; the superior border is rounded ; and the inferior sharp and grooved upon its inner side, for the attachment of the intercostal muscles.* Near its vertebral extremity, the rib is suddenly bent upon itself; and opposite the bend, upon the external surface, is a rough oblique ridge, which gives attachment to a tendon of the sacro-lumbalis muscle, and is called the angle. The distance between the vertebral extremity and the angle increases gradually, from the second to the eleventh rib. Beyond the angle is a rough elevation, metuhercle ; and immediately at the base and under side of the tubercle a smooth surface for articulation with the extremity of the transverse process of the corre- sponding vertebra. The vertebral end of the rib is somewhat ex- panded, and is termed the head, and that portion between the head and the tubercle is the neck. On the extremity of the head is an oval smooth surface divided by a transverse ridge into two facets for articidation with two contiguous vertebras. The posterior surface of the neck is rough, for the attachment of the middle costo-transverse ligament; and upon its upper border is a crest, which gives attach- ment to the anterior costo-transverse ligament. The sternal extre- mity is flattened, and presents an oval depression, into which the cos- tal cartilage is received. The ribs that demand especial consideration are the lirst, tenth, eleventh, and twelfth. first is the shortest rib; it is broad and flat, and placed horizon- tally at the upper part of the thorax, the surfaces looking upwards and downwards, in place of forwards and backwards as in the other ribs. At about the anterior third of the upper surface of the bone, and near its internal border, is a tubercle which gives attachment to the scalenus anticus muscle, and immediately before and behind this tubercle, a shallow oblique groove, the former for the subclavian vein, and the latter for the subclavian artery. Near the posterior extremity of the bone is a thick and prominent tubercle, with a smooth articular sur- face for the transverse process of the first dorsal vertebra. There is no angle. Beyond the tuberosity is a narrow constricted neck ; and at the extremity a head, presenting a single articular surface. The second rib approaches in some of its characters to the first. The tenth rib has a single articular surface on its head. The eleventh and twelftli have each a single articular surface on the head, no neck or tubercle, and are pointed at the free extremity. The eleventh has a slight ridge, representing the angle, and a shallow groove on the lower border; the twelfth has neither. * This groove is commonly described as supporting the intercostal artery, vein, and nerve; but tliis is not the case.