228 MUSCLES OF I'lIE UPPER EXTREMITY. Hand. liadial liegion {Thenar). Ulnar Region {Hypothe7uir). Abductor pollicis, Palmaris brevis, Fle.xor ossis mctacarpi (opponens), Abductor minimi digiti. Flexor brevis pollicis, Flexor brevis minimi digiti. Adductor pollicis. Adductor minimi digiti. Palmar Rpgion. Lumbricales, Interossei palmares, Interossei dorsales. Anterior Thoracic Region. Pectoralis major, Pectoralis minor, Subclavius. Dissection.—Make an incision along the line of the clavicle, from the upper part of the sternum to the acromion process; a second along the lower border of the great pectoral muscle, from the lower end of the sternum to the insertion of its tendon into the humerus ; and con- nect the two by a third, carried longitudinally along the middle of the sternum. The integument and superficial fascia are to be dissected to- gether from off the fibres of the muscle, and always in the direction of their course. For this purpose the dissector, if he have the right arm, will commence with the lower angle of the flap ; if the left, with the upper angle. He will thus expose the pectoralis major muscle in its whole extent. The Pector.ylis major muscle aiises from the sternal two-thirds of the clavicle, from one-half the breadth of the sternum its whole length, from the cartilages of all the true ribs, excepting the first and last, and from the aponeurosis of the external oblique muscle of the abdomen. It is inserted by a broad tendon into the anterior bicipital ridge of the humerus. That portion of the muscle which arises from the clavicle, is sepa- rated from that connected with the sternum by a distinct areolar in- terspace; hence we speak of the clavicular portion and sternal portion of the pectoralis major. The fibres from this very extensive origin converge towards a-narrow insertion, giving the muscle a radiated ap- pearance. But there is a peculiarity about the formation of its tendon which must be carefully noted. The whole of the lower border is folded inwards upon the upper portion, so that the tendon is doubled upon itself. Another peculiarity results from this arrangement: the fibres of the upper portion of the muscle are inserted into the lower part of the bicipital ridge ; and those of the lower portion, into the upper part.