FORNIX. 419 the narrow white band called corpm fimhriatum (posterior crus of the fornix). In the middle line the fornix is continuous with the corpus callosum, and at each side with the hippocampus major and minor. Upon the under surface of the fornix towards its posterior part, some transverse lines are seen passing between the diverging corpora fim- briata : this appearance is termed the lyra (corpus psalloides), from a fancied resemblance to the strings of a harp. The fornix may now be removed by dividing it across anteriorly, and turning it backwards, at the same time separating its lateral con Fig. 143.* » The mesial surface of a longitudinal section of the brain. The incision has been carried along the middle line; between the two hemispheres of the cere- brum, and through the middle of the cerebellum and medulla oblongata. 1. The inner surface of the left hemisphere. 2. The divided surface of the cere- bellum, shewing the arbor vitas. 3. The medulla oblongata. 4. The corpus callosum curving downwards in front to terminate at the base of the brain, and rounded behind to become continuous with 5, the fornix. 6. One of the crura of the fornix descending to 7, one of the corpora albicantia. 8. The sep- tum lucidum. 9. The velum interpositum, communicating with the pia mater of the convolutions through the fissure of Bichat, 10. Section of the middle commissure situated in the third ventricle. 11. Section of the anterior com- missure. 12. Section of the posterior commissure; the commissure is some- what above and to the left of the numeral. Tlie interspace between 10 and 11 is the foramen commune anterius, in which the crus of the fornix (6) is situ- ated. The interspace between 10 and 12 is the foramen commune posterius. 13. The corpora quadrigemina, upon which is seen resting the pineal gland, 14. 15. The iter a tertio ad quartum ventriculum, or aqueduct of Sylvius, 16. The fourth ventricle. 17. The pons Varolii, through which are seen passing the diverging fibres of the corpora pyrami^lia. 18. The crus cerebri of the left side, with the third nerve arising from it. 19. The tuber cinereum, from which , projects the infundibulum, having the pituitaiy gland appended to its extremity. ■ 20. One of the optic nerves, 21. The left olfactory nerve terminating anteriorly in a rounded bulb.