240 POSTKRIOR BRACHIAX, REGION. the tliird muscle of this group will be brought into view, lying across the lower part of the two bones. The Pronator quauratus arises from the ulna, and is inserted into the lower fourth of the oblique line, on the outer side of the ra- dius. This muscle occupies about the lower fourth of the two bones, is bi’oad at its origin, and narrower at its insertion. lielations.—By its anterior surface with the tendons of the supina- tor longus, flexor carpi radialis, flexor longus pollicis, flexor profundus digitorum, and flexor carpi ulnaris, radial artery and veins, and ulnar artery, veins, and nerve. By its posterior surface with the radius, ulna, and interosseous membrane. Actions.—The pronator radii teres and pronator quadratus muscles rotate the radius upon the ulna, and render the hand prone. The remaining muscles are flexors : two flexors of the wrist, flexor carpi radialis and ulnaris ; two of the fingers, flexor sublirais and profundus, the former flexing the second phalanges, the latter the last; one flexor of the last phalanx of the thumb, flexor longus pollicis. The palmaris longus is primarily a tensor of the palmar fascia, and secondarily a flexor of the wrist and fore-arm. Posterior Brachial Region, Superficial layer. Supinator longus. Extensor carpi radialis longior. Extensor carpi radialis brevior. Extensor communis digitorum. Extensor minimi digiti, Extensor carpi ulnaris. Anconeus. Dissection.—The integument is to be divided and turned aside, and the fasciae removed in the same manner as for the anterior brachial region. The Supinator longus muscle is placed along the radial border of the fore-ann. It arises from the external condyloid ridge of the hu- merus, nearly as high as the insertion of the deltoid, and is inserted into the base of the styloid process of the radius. Relations.—By its sup>eificial surface with the extensor ossis meta- carpi pollicis, extensor primi internodii pollicis, and fascia of the fore- arm. By its deep surface Avith the brachialis anticus, extensor carpi radialis longior, tendon of the biceps, supinator brevis, pronator radii teres, flexor carpi radialis, flexor sublimis digitorum, flexor longus pollicis, pronator quadratus, radius, musculo-spiral nerve, radial and posterior interosseous nerve, and radial arterj' and veins. This muscle must be divided through the middle, and the iwo ends turned to either side to expose the next muscle.