BASE OF THE SKULL. 59 temally to the commencement of the internal jugular vein and inter- nally to the eighth pair of nerves. Converging towards this foramen from behind is the deep groove for the lateral sinus, and from the front the groove for the inferior petrosal sinus. Behind the foramen magnum is a longitudinal ridge, which gives attachment to the falx cerebelli, and divides the two inferior fossae of the occipital hone; and above the ridge is the internal occipital pro- tuberance and the transverse groove lodging the lateral sinus. The external surface of the base of the skull is extremely irregular. From before backwards it is formed by the palate processes of the superior maxillary and palate hones ; the vomer; pterygoid, spinous processes, and part of the body of the sphenoid; under surface of the squamous, petrous, and mastoid portion of the temporals; and by the occipital bone. The palate processes of the superior maxillary and palate bones constitute the hard palate, which is raised above the level of the rest of the base, and is surrounded by the alveolar processes containing the teeth of the upper jaw. At the anterior extremity of the hard palate, and directly behind the front incisor teeth, is the anterior palatine or incisive foramen, the termination of the anterior palatine canal, Avhich contains the naso-palatine ganglion, and trans- mits the anterior palatine nerves. At the posterior angles of the palate are the posterior palatine foramina, for the posterior palatine nerves and arteries. Passing inwards from these foramina are the transverse ridges to which are attached the aponeurotic expansions of the tensor pahiti muscles; and at the middle line of the posterior border, the palate spine, which gives origin to the azygos uvulae. The hard pa- late is marked by a crucial suture, which distinguishes the four pro- cesses of which it is composed. Behind, and above the hard palate, are the posterior nares, separated by the vomer, and bounded on each side by the pterj'goid processes. At the base of the pterygoid processes are the pterygo-palatine canals. The internal pterygoid plate is long and narrow, terminated at its apex by the hamular process, and at its base by the scaphoid fossa. The external plate is broad; the space between the two is the pterygoid fossa; it contains part of the internal pterj'goid muscle, and the tensor palati. Externally to the external pterj-goid plate is the zygomatic fossa. Behind the nasal fossae, in the middle line, is the under surface of the body of the sphenoid, and the basilar process of the occipital bone, and, still further back, the foramen magnum. At the base of the external pterygoid plate, on each side, is the foramen ovale, and behind this the foramen spinosum with the prominent spine which gives attachment to the internal lateral ligament of the lower jaw and the laxator tympani muscle. Running outwards from the apex of the spinous process of the sphenoid bone, is the fissura Glased, which crosses the glenoid fossa transversely, and divides it into an anterior smooth surface, bounded by the eminentia articularis, for the condyle of the lower jaw, and a posterior rough surface for a part of the parotid gland. Behind the foramen ovale and spinosum, is the irregular fissure between the