CRANIAL NERVES. 437 matter. The form of the grey substance, as observed^ in the section, is tiiat of two irregularly curved lines joined by a transverse band. The extremities of the curved lines correspond with the sulci of origin of the anterior and posterior roots of the nerves. The anterior extremities, larger than the posterior, do not quite reach this surface; but the pos- terior appear upon the surface, and form a narrow grey line, the sulcus lateralis posterior. The white substance of the spinal cord is composed of parallel fibres which are collected into longitudinal laminm and extend throughout the entire length of the cord. These laminae are various in breadth, and are arranged in a radiated manner; one. border being thick and corresponding with the surface of the cord, while the other is thin and lies in contact with the grey substance of the interior. According to Rolando the white substance constitutes a simple nervous membrane, which is folded into longitudinal plaits, having the radiated disposition above described. The anterior commissure, according to his description, is merely the continuation of this nervous membrane from one lateral cord across the middle line to the other. Moreover, Rolando considers that a thin lamina of pia mater is received between each of the folds fi'om the exterior, while a layer of the grey substance is prolonged be- tween them from within. Cruveilhier is of opinion that each lamella is completely independent of its neighbours, and he believes this state- ment to be confirmed by pathology, which shows that a single lamella may be injured or atrophied, and at the same time be surrounded by others perfectly sound. CRANIAL NERVES. There are nine pairs of cranial nerves. Taken in their order from before, backwards, they are as follows :— 1st. Olfactory. 2nd. Optic. 3rd. Motores oculorum. 4th. Pathetici (trochleares). 5th. Trifacial (trigemini). 6th. Abducentes. 7th -f (portio dura), t Auditory (portio mollis). C Glosso-pharyngeal. 8th. < Pneumogastric (vagus, par vagum). h Spinal accessory, 9th. Hypoglossal (lingual). with the flssura longitudinalis posterior, which latter is not distinguishable at this part of the spinal cord. 3, 3. The antero-lateral columns of the spinal cord. 4,4. The posterior columns. 5. The,anterior cornu of grey matter. 6. Ibt posterior cornu, terminating at 7, the sulcus lateralis posterior. 8. The isthmus connecting the grey matter of the two sides of the cord.