LUMBAR VERTEBRA. 15 look backwards and inwards; the inferior convex, and look forwards and outwards. Projecting backwards and upwards from the supe- rior articular process is a short and flattened tu- pig, g.* bercle or posterior trans- verse process, and in a strongly marked verte- bra there is not unfre- quently at the base of this a smaller tubercle which has a direction downwards. The last lumbar vertebra dif- fers from the rest in having the body very much bevelled poste- riorly, so as to be thick in front and thin behind, and the transverse process thick and large. General Considerations.—Viewed as a whole, the vertebral column represents two pyramids applied base to base, the superior being formed by all the vertebrae from the second cervical to the last lum- bar, and the inferior by the sacrum and coccyx. Examined more at- tentively, it will be seen to be composed of four irregular pyramids, applied to each other by their smaller extremities and by their bases. The smaller extremity of the uppermost pyramid is formed by the axis, or second cervical vertebra; and its base, by the first dorsal. The second pyramid is inverted; having its base at the first dorsal, and the smaller end at the fourth. The third pyramid commences at the fourth dorsal, and gradually enlarges to the fifth lumbar. The fourth pyramid is formed by the sacrum and coccyx. The bodies of the vertebra are broad in the cervical region; nar- rowed almost to an angle in the middle of the dorsal, and again broad in the lumbar region. The arches are broad and imbricated in the cervical and dorsal regions, the inferior border of each overlapping the superior of the next; in the lumbar region an interval is left between them. A considerable interval exists between the cranium and atlas, and another between the Last lumbar vertebra and sacrum. The spinous processes are horizontal in the cervical, and become gradually oblique in the upper part of the dorsal region. In the middle of the dorsal region they are nearly vertical and imbricated, and towards its lower part assume the direction of the lumbar spines, which are quite horizontal. The transverse processes developed in * A lateral view of a lumbar vertebra. 1. The body. 2. Tho pedicle. 3. The superior intervertebral notch. 4. Tho inferior intervertebral notch. 5. The spinous process. 6. Tho transverse process. 7. Tlie superior articular processes. 8. The inferior articular processes. 9. Tho posterior transverse process.