98 PATELLA.—TIBIA. Fig 43 * Patella.—The patella is a sesamoid bone, developed in the ten- don of the quadriceps extensor muscle, and usually described as a bone of the lower extremity. It is heart-shaped in figure, the broad end being directed upwards and the apex downwards, the external surface convex, and the internal divided b}’ a ridge into two smooth surfaces, to articulate with the condyles of the femur. The external articular surface, corresponding with the external condyle, is the larger of the two, and serves to indicate the leg to which the bone belongs. Development. — By a single centre, at about the middle of the third year. Articulations.—With the two condyles of the femur. Attachment of Muscles. — To four; the rectus, cruraeus, vastus intemus and vastus externus ; and to the ligamentum patellae. ' Tibia.— The tibia is the inner and larger bone of the leg; it is prismoid in form, and divisible into a shaft, an upper and a lower extremity. The upper extremity., or head, is large, and expanded on each side into two tube- rosities. Upon their upper surface the tu- berosities are smooth, to articulate with the condyles of the femur; the internal arti- cular surface being oval and oblong, to cor- respond with the internal condyle; and the external, broad and nearly circuhir. Be- tween the two articular surfaces is a spinous process; and in front and behind the spi- nous process a rough depression, giving attachment to the anterior and posterior crucial ligaments. Between the two tube- rosities on the front aspect of the bone is a prominent elevation, the tubercle, for the insertion of the ligamentum patellae, and immediately above the tubercle a smooth facet, corresponding with a bursa. Upon the outer side of the external tuberosity is an articular surface, for the * The tibia and fibula of the right leg, articulated and seen from the front. 1. The shaft of the tibia. 2. The inner tuberosity. 3. The outer tuberosity. 4. The spinous process. 5. The tubercle. 6. The internal or subcutaneous surface of the shaft. 7. The lower extremity of the tibia. 8. The internal malleolus. 9. The shaft of the fibula. 10. Its upper extremity. 11. Its lower extremity, the external malleolus. The sharp border between 1 and 6 is the crest of the tibia.