FLEXOR PROFUNDUS DIGITORUM. •239 Fig. 101.* sublimis digitorum, flexor carpi ulnaris, median nerve, and ulnar ar- tery, veins, and nerve. By its posterior surface with the ulna, the interosseous membrane, the pronator quadratus, and the wrist-joint. By its radial border with the flexor longus poUicis, the anterior inter- osseous arterj’’ and nerve being in- terposed. By its ulnar border with the flexor carpi ulnaris. In the hand: its tendons are in relation superficial Ip with the tendons of the ■ superficial flexor; and deeply with : the interossei muscles, adductor pollicis, and deep palmar arch. In the fingers: the tendons of the deep flexor are interposed between the ■ tendons of the superficial flexor and the phalanges, and give attachment : to the vincula accessoria. The Flexor longus pollicis arises from the upper two-thirds of •-the radius, and part of the interos- seous membrane. Its tendon passes ■ beneath the annular ligament, to be inserted into the base of the last ; phalanx of the thumb. Relations.—By its anterior sur- face with the flexor sublimis digito- rum, flexor carpi radialis, supinator longus, and radial artery and veins. By its posterior surface with the radius, interosseous membrane, pro- nator quadratus, and wrist-joint. By its idnar border it is separated nfrom the flexor profundus digitorum i by the anterior interosseous artery <und nerve. In the hand: after pass- ing beneath the annular ligament, it i‘is lodged in the interspace between t ;he two portions of the flexor brevis oollicis, and afterwards in the ten- i linous theca of the phalanges. If the tendons of the last two nuscles be drawn aside or divided, • The deep layer of muscles of the fore-arai. 1. The internal lateral liga- . nent of the elbow-joint. 2. The anterior ligament. 3. The orbicular liga- oent of the head of the radius. 4. The flexor profundus digitorum muscle. . The flexor longus pollicis. 6. The pronator quadiatus. 7. The adductor •>>oliicis muscle. 8. The dorsal interosseous muscle of the middle finger, and ■almar interosseous of the ring-finger. 9. The dorsal interosseous muscle of he ring-finger, and palmar interosseous of the little finger.