STIIUCTURE OF THE UTERUS. G20 point the canal of the cervix expands into the shallow triangukr cavity of the uterus, the inferior angle corresponding with the orificium intenium, and the two superior angles, which are funnel-shaped, and represent the original bicomute condition of the organ, with the com- mencement of the Fallopian tubes. In the canal of the cervix uteri are two or three longitudinal folds, to which numerous oblique folds converge so as to give the idea of branches from the stem of a tree ; hence this appearance has been denominated the arbor vitae uterina. Between these folds, and around the os uteri, are numerous mucous follicles. It is the closure of the mouth of one of these follicles, and the subsequent distention of the follicle with its proper secretion, that occasions those vesicular appearances, so often noticed within the mouth and cervix of the uterus, called the ovula of Naboth. Structure.—The uterus is composed of three tunics ; of an external or serous coat, derived from the peritoneum, which constitutes the duplicatures on each side of the organ called the broad ligaments; of a middle or muscular coat, which gives thickness and bulk to the uterus; and of an internal or mucous membrane, which lines its in- terior, and is continuous on the one hand with the mucous lining of the Fallopian tubes, and on the other with that of the vagina. In the unimpregnated state the muscular coat is exceedingly condensed in texture, offers resistance to section with the scalpel, and appears to be composed of whitish fibres inextricably interlaced and mingled with blood-vessels. In the impregnated uteras the fibres are of large size, and distinct, and are disposed in two lajmrs, superficial and deep. The superficial layer consists of fibres which pursue a vertical direc- tion, some being longitudinal, and others oblique. The longitudinal fibres are found principally on the middle line, forming a thin plane upon the anterior and posterior face of the organ and upon its fundus. The oblique fibres occupy chiefly the sides and the fundus. At the angles of the uteras the fibres of the superficial layer are continued outwards upon the Fallopian tubes, and into the round bgaments and ligaments of the ovaries. The deep layer consists of two hollow cones of circular fibres having their apex at the openings of the Fallopian tubes, and intermingling with each other by their bases on the body of the organ. These fibres are continuous with the deep muscular layer of the Fallopian tubes, and indicate the primitive formation of the uterus by the blending of these two canals. Around the cervix uteri the muscular fibres assume a circular form interlacing with and crossing each other at acute angles. The mucous membrane is provided with a columnar ciliated epithelium, which extends from the middle of the cervix uteri to the extremities of the Fallopian tubes. Vessels and Nerves,—The Arteries of the uterus are the uterine from the internal iliac, and the spermatic from the aorta. The veins are large and remarkable; in the impregnated uterus they are called sinuses, and consist of canals channelled through the substance of the organ, being merely lined by the internal membrane of the veins.