ATLAS AND AXIS. 12 terior arch has a tubercle on its anterior surface, for the attachment of the longus colli muscle; and on its posterior aspect is a smooth surface, for the articulation of the odontoid process of the axis. The posterior arch is longer and more slender than the anterior, and flattened from above downwards ; at its mid- dle is a rudimentary spinous process; and upon its upper surface, near the articular proces- ses, a shallow groove + at each side, which re- presents a superior in- tervertebral notch, and supports the vertebral artery previously to its passage through the dura mater, and the first cervical nerve. The intervertebral notches are peculiar, from being situated beliind the ar- ticular processes, instead of before them as in the other vertebrae. The transverse processes are remarkably large and long, and pierced by the foramen for the vertebral artery. The articular processes are situated upon the most bulky and strongest part of the atlas. The superior are oval and concaye, and look inwards, so as to form a kind of cup for the condyles of the occipital bone, and are adapted to the nodding movements of the head; the inferior are circular, and nearly horizon- tal, to pemit of the rotatory movements. Upon the inner face of the lateral mass which supports the articular processes, is a small tubercle at each side, to which the extremities of the transverse ligament are attached, a ligament which divides the ring of the atlas into two un- equal segments; the smaller for receiving the odontoid process of the axis, and the latter to give passage to the spinal cord and its mem- branes. The Axis (vertebra dentata) is so named from having a process upon which the head turns as on a pivot. The body is of large size, and supports a strong process, the odontoid, whicli rises perpendicularly from its upper surface. The odontoid process presents two articulating surfaces; one on its anterior face, to articulate with the anterior arch of the atlas; the other on its posterior face, for the transverse liga- * The upper surface of the atlas. 1. The anterior tubercle projecting from the anterior arch. 2. The articular surface for the odontoid piocess upon the posterior surface of the anterior arch. 3. The posterior arch, with its rudimen- tary spinous process. 4. The intervertebral notcli. 5. The transverse process. 6. The vertebral foramen. 7. Superior articular surface. 8. The tubercle for the attachment of the transverse ligament. The tubercle referred to is just above the head of the figure ; the convexity below it is the margin of the infe- rior articulating process. t Tills groove is sometimes converted into a foramen. .Fig. 6.*