STRUCTURE OF MUSCLE. 164 contents of the cell are a blastema, out of which new cells are formed. The disposition of these latter cells, in the production of fibrillae, is probably much more simple than has hitherto been conceived. In Fig.SS* the muscular fibre of organic life the process would seem to stop short of the formation of fibrillas, the cells being accumulated wdth- out apparent order. The corpuscles, observed by Mr. Bowman, in foetal muscle [fig. 81] and the nodosities of organic fibre, are obviously undeveloped cells and nuclei. Muscles are divided into two great classes, voluntarj' and involun- tary, to which may be added, as an intermediate and connecting link, the muscle of the vascular system, the heart. The voluntary^ or system of animal life, is developed firom the ex- ternal or serous layer of the germinal membrane, and comprehends the whole of the muscles of the limbs and of the trunk. The involuntary, or organic system, is developed from the internal or mucous layer, and constitutes the thin muscular structure of the intestinal canal, bladder, and internal organs of generation. At the commencement of the ali- mentary canal in the oesophagus, and near its termination in the rectum, the muscular coat is formed by a blending of the fibres of both classes. The heart is developed from the middle, or vascular layer of the germinal membrane; and, although involuntarj- in its action, is * A. A muscular fibre of animal life enclosed in its myolemma; the trans- verse and longitudinal striae are seen, B. An ultimate fibril of muscular fibre of animal life, according to the views of Mr. Bowman. c. A muscular fibre of animal life, similar to a, but more highly magnified. Its myolemma is so thin and transparent as to permit the ultimate fibrils to bo seen through. The true nature of the longitudinal striae is seen in this fibre, as well as the mode of formation of the transverse striae. D. A muscular fibre of organic life from the urinary bladder, magnified 600 times, linear measure. Two of the nuclei are seen. E. A muscular fibre of organic life, from the stomach, magnified 600 times. The diameter of this and of the preceding fibre, midway between the nuclei, was o^an inch. ?7TTo