FACIAL NERVE. 449 are the following: in the meatus auditorius it sends one or two fila- ments to the auditory nerve; the intumescentia gangliformis receives the nervus petrosus superficialis major and minor, and sends a twig back to the auditory nerve; behind the tympanum the nerve receives one or two twigs from the auricular branch of the pneumogastric ; at its exit from the stylo-mastoid foramen it receives a twig from the glosso-pharv'ngeal, and in the parotid gland one or two large branches from the anterior auricular nerve. Besides these, the facial nerve has numerous peripheral communications, with the branches of the fifth nerve on the face, and of the cervical nerves in the parotid gland and on the neck. The numerous communications of the facial nerve have obtained for it the designation of nervus sympatlieticus minor. The Branches of the facial nerve are— Within the aqueductus r Tympanic, Fallopii, ^ Chorda tympani. .^ f Posterior auricular. After emerging at tU^ stvlo-hyoid, stylo-mastoid foramen Digastric. .. j. (• Temporo-facial, On the face, i Cervi^co-facial. The Tynj/wKic branch is a small filament distributed to the stapedius muscle. The Chorda tympani quits the facial just before that nerve emerges firom the stylo-mastoid foramen, and ascends by a distinct canal to the upper part of the posterior wall of the tympanum, where it enters that cavity through an opening situated between the base of the pyra- mid and the attachment of the membrana tympani, and becomes in- vested by mucous membrane. It then crosses the tympanum between ihe handle of the malleus and long process of the incus to the anterior inferior angle of the cavity, and escapes through a distinct opening in •he fissura Glaseri, and joins the gustatory nerve at an acute angle >€tween the two pterj-goid muscles. Enclosed in a sheath of the pistatorj' nerve, it descends to the submaxillary gland, where it imites viih the submaxillary ganglion. The Posterior auricular nerve ascends behind the ear, between the neatus and mastoid process, and divides into an anterior and a poste- ior branch. The anterior branch receives a filament of commimication fom the auricular branch of the pneiunogastric nerve, and distributes laments to the retrahens and attollens aurem muscles and to the ■inna. The posterior branch communicates with the auricularis mag- us and occipitalis minor, and is distributed to the posterior belly of ae occipito-frontalis. The Stylo-hyoid branch is distributed to the stylo-hyoid muscle. The Digastric branch supplies the posterior belly of the digastricus mscle, jind communicates with the glosso-pharyngeal and pneumo- istric nerve. G G