•229 PKCTORALIS —SUBCLAVIUS. Rt'lations.—By its eaiernal mvface with the fibres of origin of the platysma myoides, the mainmar}'- gland, the superficial fascia and inte- gument. By its internal surface, on the thorax, with the clavicle, the sternum, the costal csirtilages, intercostal muscles, subclavius, pectoralis minor, and serratus magmis; in the axilla, with the axillar}^ vessels and glands. By its codemal border with the deltoid, from which it is separated above by an areolar interspace lodging the cephalic vein and the descending branch of the thoracico-acromialis artery. Its loiver border forms the anterior boundary of the axillary space. The pectoralis major is now to be removed by dividing its fibres along the lower border of the clavicle, and then carrying the incision perpendicularly downwards, parallel to the sternum, and at about three inches from its border. Divide some loose areolar tissue, and several small branches of the thoracic arteries, and reflect the muscle outwards. AVe thus bring into view a region of considerable interest, in the mid- dle of which is situated the pectoralis minor. The Pectoralis minor arises by three digitations from the third, fourth, and fifth ribs, and is inserted into the anterior border of the coracoid process of the scapula by a broad tendon. Relations.—By its anterior surface with the pectoralis major and superior thoracic vessels and nerves. By its posterior surface with the ribs, the intercostal muscles, serratus raagnus, axillary space, and axillary vessels and nerves. Its upper border forms the lower boun- dary of a triangular space bounded above by the costo-coracoid mem- brane, and internally by the ribs. In this space are found the axillary vessels and nerves, and in it the subclavian artery may be tied below the clavicle. The Subclavius muscle arises by a round tendon from the cartilage of the first rib, and is inserted into the under surface of the clavicle. This muscle is concealed by the costo-coracoid membrane, an extension of the deep cervical fascia, by which it is invested. Relations.—By its upper surface with the clavicle. By the loicer with the subclavian artery and vein and brachial plexus, which sepa- rate it from the first rib. In front with the pectoralis major, the costo- coracoid membrane being interposed. Actions.—The pectoralis major draws the arm against the thorax, while its upper fibres assist the upper part of the trapezius in raising the shoulder, as in supporting weights. The lower fibres depress the shoulder with the aid of the latissimus dorsi. Taking its fixed point from the shoulder, the pectoralis major assists the pectoralis minor, subclavius, and serratus magnus, in drawing up and expanding the chest. The pectoralis minor, in addition to this action, draws upon the coracoid process, and assists in rotating the scapula upon the chest. The subclavius draws the clavicle downwards and forwards, and thereby assists in steadying the shoulder. All the muscles of this group are agents in forced respiration, but are incapable of acting until the shoulders are fixed.