565 LESSER OMENTUM. The folds, fonned between these and between the diaphragm and the liver, are— (Dijiphragm.) Broad, coronary, and lateral ligaments. (Liver.) Lesser omentum ■ (Stomach.) Greater omentum. (Transverse colon.) Transverse meso-colon. Mesentery, Meso-rectum, Recto-vesical fold, False ligaments of the bladder. And in the female, the— Broad ligaments of the uterus. The ligaments of the liver will be described with that organ. The Lesser omenium is the duplicature which passes between the liver and the upper border of the stomach. It is extremely thin, ex- cepting at its right border, where it is free, and contains between its layers, the— Hepatic artery. Ductus communis choledochus. Portal vein. Hepatic plexus of nerves. Lymphatics. These structures are enclosed in a loose areolar tissue, called GUsson's capsvle* The relative position of the three vessels is, the I anterior layer of the peritoneum, lining the under surface of the diaphragm. : 2. The posterior layer. 3. The coronary ligament, formed by the passage of t these two layers to the posterior border of the liver. 4. The lesser omentum; t the two layers passing from the under surface of the liver to the lesser curve of t the stomach. 5. The two layers meeting at the greater curve, then passing i downwards and returning upon themselves, forming (6) the greater omentum. 7. The transverse meso-colon. 8. The posterior layer traced upwards in front a of D, the transverse duodenum, and P, the pancreas, to become continuous 1 with the posterior layer (2). 9. The foramen of Winslow; the dotted line bounding this foramen inferiorly marks the course of the hepatic arteiy for- « wards, to enter between the layers of the lesser omentum. 10. The mesentery •1 encircling the small intestine. 11. The recto-vesical fold, formed by the de- ■ scending anterior layer. 12. The anterior layer traced upwards upon the inter- a nal surface of the abdominal parietes to the layer (1), with which the examina- • tion commenced. • Francis Glisson, Professor of Medicine in the University of Cambridge. His V work, “ De Anatomia Hepatis,” was published in 1654.