SUPERIOR MAXILLARY BONES. 41 and lachrymal bone ; and the posterior border is regularly cellular, to articulate with the sphenoid and palate bones. The lateral masses are composed of cells, which are divided by a thin partition into anterior and posterior ethmoidal cells. The anterior, the most numerous, communicate with the frontal sinuses, and open by means of an irregular and incomplete tubular canal, the infundibulum^ into the middle meatus. The posterior cells, fewer in number, open into the superior meatus. Development.—By three centres; one for each lateral mass, and one for the perpendicular lamella. Ossification commences in the lateral masses at about the beginning of the fifth month, appearing first in the os planum and then in the spongy bones. During the latter half of the first year after birth, the central lamella and lamina cribrosa begin to ossify, and are united to the lateral masses by the beginning of the second year. The cells of the ethmoid are developed in the course of the fourth and fifth year. Articulations.—With thhdeen bones; two of the cranium,—the frontal and sphenoid ; the rest of the face, viz. the nasal, superior maxillary, lachrymal, palate, the inferior turbinated, and the vomer. No muscles are attached to this bone. Nasal Bones.—The nasal (fig. 281 are two small quadrangular bones, forming by their union the bridge and base of the nose. Upon the upper surface they are convex, and pierced by a foramen for a small artery; on the under surface they are somewhat concave, and marked by a groove, which lodges the nasal branch of the ophthalmic nerve. The superior border is narrow and thick, the inferior broad, thin, and irregular. Development.—By a single centre for each bone, the first ossific de- position making its appearance at the same time as in the vertebrae. Articulations.—With ybar bones : frontal, ethmoidal, nasal, and superior maxillary. Attachment of Muscles.—It has in relation with it the pyramidalis nasi, and compressor nasi ; but neither of these muscles is inserted into it. Superior maxillary Bones —The superior maxillary are the largest bones of the face, with the exception of the^ower jaw; they : form, by their union, the whole of the upper jaw, and assist in the 1 construction of the nose, the orbit, the cheek, and the palate. Each I bone is divisible into a body and four processes. BONES OF THE FACE. The face is composed of fourteen bones ; viz. the Two nasal. Two superior maxillary. Two lachrymal. Two malar. Two palate. Two inferior turbinated. Vomer, Inferior maxillary.