204 MUSCLES OF THE BACK. bone between the two curved lines, near the occipital spine. A large fasciculus of the coinplexus is so distinct from the principal mass of the muscle as to have led to its description as a separate muscle under the name of biventer cervicis. This appellation is not inappropriate lor the muscle consists of a central tendon, with two fleshy bellies. The coinplexus is crossed in the upper part of the neck by a tendinous intersection. Relations.—By its superficial surface with the trapezius, splenius, trachelo-niastoid, transversalis colli,’ and longissimus dorsi. By its deep surface with the semi-spinalis dorsi and colli, the recti and obliqui. It is separated from its fellow of the opposite side by the ligamentum nuchae, and from the semi-spinalis colli by the profunda ceiricis artery and princeps cervicis branch of the occipital, and by the posterior cer- vical plexus of nerves. Fifth Layer. Dissection.—The muscles of the preceding layer are to be removed by dividing them transversely through the middle, and turning one extremity upwards, the other downwards. In this way the whole of the muscles of the fourth layer may be got rid of, and the remaining muscles of the spine brought into a state to be examined. The Semi-spinales muscles are connected with the transverse and spinous processes of the vertebrae, spanning one-half of the verte- bral column ; hence their name, semi-spinales. The Semi-spinalis dorsi arises from the transverse processes of the six lower dorsal vertebrae, and is inserted into the spinous pro- cesses of the four upper dorsal, and two lower cervical vertebrae. The Semi-spinalis colli arises from the transverse processes of the four upper dorsal vertebrae, and is inserted into the spinous pro- cesses of the four upper cervical vertebrae, commencing with the axis. Relations.—By tlieir superficial surface the semi-spinales are in rela- tion from below upwards with the spinalis dorsi, longissimus dorsi, complexus, splenius, with the profunda cervicis and princeps cervicis artery, and posterior cervical plexus of nerves. By their deep surface with the multifidus spinae muscle. Occipital Group.—This group of small muscles is intended for the varied movements of the cranium on the atlas, and the atlas on the axis. The Rectus posticus major aidses from the spinous process of the axis, and is inserted into the inferior curved line of the occipital bone. The Rectus posticus minor arises from the spinous tubercle of the atlas, and is inserted into the rough surface on the occipital bone, beneath the inferior curved line. The Rectus lateralis is extended between the transverse pro- cess of the atlas and the occipital bone ; it arises from the transverse