402 GREY NERVE FIBRES. NERVE CELLS. is composed of a transparent and stnicturelcss cylindrical tubule or sheath (vagina medullaris), and of an axis-cylinder filled with an opalescent, colourless, oil-like fluid (neurine), which coagulates after death, and then resembles a white, opaque, and curd-like matter. The vagina medullaris possesses somewhat less than one-third the thickness of the entire fibre, and gives to the latter, when examined with the microscope, the aspect of a double cylinder,—an appearance which is characteristic of the white nerve-fibre. It is thickest in the fibres of the spinal nerves, and thinnest in those of the spinal cord, brain, and nerves of special sense. Hence in these latter, the sheath, when pressed or stretched, is apt to assume a varicose appearance, and the contained substance to accumulate in small separate masses. White nerve-fibres terminate, both at the surface of the bod\', in the various internal organs, and in the substance of the cerebro-spinal axis, by forming loops. 2. Grey Nerve fibres (fine nerve-fibres, gelatinous fibres, sym- pathetic fibres) are about one-half or one-third less in diameter to of an inch, Henle) than the white fibres. They are les-. transparent, have no appearance of being composed of a double cylin- der, and their sheath is less easily distinguishable from its contents. In structure, they consist of a thin and finely granulated sheath, filled with granular substance, and, when collected into a fasciculus, have a yellowish grey tint. The grey nerve-fibres are abundant in, and are indeed the chief constituent of, the sjmpathetic system. They are also present in the cerebro-spinal nerves, and, most numerously, in the nerves of sensation. They take their origin from the nerve-cells of the grey substance of the brain and spinal cord, from those of the ganglia on the posterior roots of the cerebro-spinal nerves, and from the nerve-cells of the ganglia of the sympathetic system. 3. The Nerve-cells are spherical, or oval, or polyhedral in shape, of a reddish grej" colour, and between and of an inch in diameter. Each cell is composed of a capsular sheath, and contains in its interior a reddish-grey granular substance, and one or more nuclei and nncleoli, the nucleus being attached to the internal surface of the sheath. The sheath of the nerve-cell is constructed of three layers, the outermost consisting of fine granidar corpuscles, the middle of nucleated cells of an oblong figure, and the internal of concentric la- mellae of delicate cylindrical filaments. Dispersed through the sub- stance of the cell are a ■ greater or less number of pigment-granules, some being in the interior, and some in the sheath. Nerve-cells are found in the grey substance of the brain and spinal cord, in the gan- glia of the cerebro-spinal nerves, and in the sj'mpathetic ganglia and nerves. The nerve-cells of the grey substance of the brain are often veiy irregular in shape, and they are also remarkable for their softness and for the thinness of their sheath. It is the pigment-granules, con- tained in the nerve-cells and nerve-granules, that give the peculiar tint of colour to the grey and dark substance of the cerebro-spinal axis.