;358 DOUSALIS PEDIS ARTERY peroneus tertius, inosculates wltli the anterior peroneal artery and with the branches of the dorsalis pedis; the internal, beneath the ten- dons of the extensor proprius pollicis and tibialis anticus, inosculates with branches of the posterior tibial and internal plantar artery. They supply branches to the ankle-joint. The Dorsalis pedis artery is continued forward along the tibial side of the dorsum of the foot, from the ankle to the base of the meUt- tarsal bone of the great toe, where it divides into two branches, the dorsalis hallucis and communicating. Relations.—The dorsalis pedis is situated along the outer border of the tendon of the extensor proprius pollicis; on its fibular side is the innermost tendon of the extensor longus digitorum, and near its termi- nation it is crossed by the inner tendon of the extensor brevis digito- rum. It is accompanied by venae comites, and has the continuation of the anterior tibial nerve to its outer side. Plan of the relations of the Dorsalis Pedis Artery. In Front. Inner Side. Tendon of the ex- tensor proprius pollicis. Integument, Deep fascia, Inner tendon of the extensor brevis digitorum. Ovler Side. Tendon of the extensor longus digitorum, Border of the extensor brevis digitorum muscle. Dorsalis Pedis Artery. Behind. Bones of the tarsus, with their ligaments. Branches.—The branches of this artery are the— Tar sea, Metatarsea,—interosseae. Dorsalis hallucis,—collateral digital. Communicating. The Tarsea arches transversely across the tarsus, beneath the ex- tensor brevis digitorum muscle, and supplies the articulations of the tarsal bones and the outer side of the foot; it anastomoses with ihe external malleolar, the peroneal arteries, and the external plantar. The Metatarsea forms an arch across the base of the metatarsal bones, and supplies the outer side of the foot; anastomosing with the tarsea and with the external plantar arterj’’. The metatarsea gives off three branches, the interosseae, which pass forward upon the dorsal interossei muscles, and divide into two collateral branches for adjoining toes. At their commencement these interosseous branches receive'the posterior perforating arteries from the plantar arch, and opposite the heads of the metatarsal bones they are joined by the anterior perfora- ting branches from the digital arteries.