DEVELOPMENT OF BONE. 4 surface of a bone, and largest near its centre, where they gradual!)' merge into cancelli; by the frequent communications of their branches they form a coarse network in the basis substance. The cells of bone, or corpuscles of Purkinje, are thickly disseminated through the basis substance ; they are irregular in size and form, give oif numerous minute branching tubuli which radiate from all parts of their circumference, and in the dried state of the bone contain merely the remains of membranous cells and some calcareous salts.* In the living bone the cells and their tubuli are probably filled with a nutri- tive fluid holding calcareous salts in solution. The form of the cells is oval or round, and more or less flattened,; their long diameter corre- sponds with the long axis of the bone, and their tubuli cross the direc- tion of the lamellae, and constitute a very delicate network in the basis substance, by communicating with each other and with the tubuli of neighbouring cells. The tubuli of the cells nearest the Haversian canals terminate upon the internal surface of those cavities. The size of the cells varies in extreme measurement from to of an inch in their long diameter, an ordinary average being ; the breadth of the oval cells is about one-half or one-third their length, and their thickness one-half their breadth. They are situated between the lamellae, to which circumstance they owe their compressed form. In the fresh state, bones are invested by a dense fibrous membrane, the 'periosteum^ which covers every part of their surface with the ex- ception of the articular extremities, the latter being coated by a thin layer of cartilage. The periosteum of the bones of the skull is termed pericranium; and the analogous membrane of external cartilages, peri- chondrium, Lining the interior of the medullary canal of long bones, the Haversian canals, the cells of the cancelli, and the cells of short, flat, and irregular bones, is the medullary membrane, which acts as an in- ternal periosteum. It is through the medium of the vessels ramifying in these membranes that the changes required by nutrition occur in bones, and the secretion of medulla into their interior is effected. The medullary canal, Haversian canals, and cells of long bones, and the cells of other bones, are filled with a yellowish oily substance, the medulla,, which is contained in a loose areolar tissue formed by the medullary membrane. Development of Bone.—To explain the development of bone it is ne- cessary to inform the student that all organised bodies, whether belong- ing to the vegetable or the animal kingdom, are developed primordially from minute vesicles. These vesicles, or, as they are commonly termed, cells, are composed of a thin membrane containing a fluid or granular matter, and a small rounded mass, the nucleus, around which the cell was originally formed. Moreover, the nucleus generally con- tains one or more small round granules, the nmleolus or mwleoli. From cells having this structure all the tissues of the body are elaborated ; • Muller and Hcnlo conceived that the bone cells and tubuli were the prin- cipal seat of the calcareous matter. Hence they have been named cakigerous cells and tubuli.