83 SCAPHOID BONE.—SEMILUNARE. is, however, more similar in form to a cashew nut, flattened and con- cave upon one side. If carefully examined, it will be found to present a convex and a concave surface, a convex and a concave border, a broad end, and a narroio and pointed eodremity, the tuberositj'^. To ascertain to which hand the bone belongs, let the student hold : it horizontally, so that the convex surface may look backwards (j. e. towards himself), and the convex border upwards; the broad extremity will indicate its appropriate hand ; if it be directed to the ; right, the bone belongs to the right; and if to the left, to the left carpus. Articidations.—With^^re bones; by its convex surface, with the radius ; by its concave surface, with the os magnum and semilunare; and by the extremity of its upper or dorsal border, with the trapezium and trapezoides. Attachments.—By its tuberosity to the abductor pollicis, and ante- - rior annular ligament. The SE.MiL UNAR bone may be < known by hanng a crescentic con- cavity, and a somewhat crescentic outline. It presents for examina- i tion four articular surfaces and two ; extremities; the articular surfaces ‘ are, one concave, one convex, and 1 two lateral, one lateral surface being . crescentic, the other nearly circu- .1 lar, and divided generally into two :■ facets. The extremities are, one iorsal, which is quadrilateral, flat . and indented, for the attachment of ligaments ; the other palmar, which is convex, rounded, and of •larger size. To determine to which hand it belongs, let the bone be held per- 'oendicularly, so that the dorsal or flat extremity look upwards, and ;he convex side backwards (towards the holder). The circular lateral • A diagram shewing the dorsal surface of the bones of the carpus, with their irticuiations.—The right hand. R. The lower end of the radius. U. The ower extremity of the ulna. F. The inter-articular flbro-cartOage attached .0 the styloid process of the ulna, and to the margin of the articular surface !)f the r^ius. S. The scaphoid bone: the numeral (8) indicates the number )f bones with wliich it articulates. L. The semilunare articulating with five K>nes. C. The cunoiforme, articulating with three bones. P. The pislforme, irticulating with the cuneiforme only. T. The first bone of the second row, he trapezium, articulating with four bones. T. The second bone, the trape- ;oldes, articulating also with four bones. M. The os magnum, articulating with ■' .even, U. The unclfonne, articulating with five. The numerals, 1, 3, 1, 2, 1, in the metacarpal bones, refer to the number of their articulations with the carpal bones. Fig. 37.*