STRUCTURE OF VEINS. 367 the artery, and named vena comites. The larger arteries, as the axillary, subclavian, carotid, popliteal, femoral, &c., ai’e accompanied by a single venous trunk. Sinuses differ from veins in their structure; and also in their mode of distribution, being confined to especial organs and situated within their substance. The principal venous sinuses are those of the dui-a mater, the diploe, the cancellous structure of bones, and the uterus. The communications between veins are even more frequent than those of arteries, and they take place between the larger as well as among the smaller vessels ; the veme comites communicate with each other very frequently in their course, bj' means of short transverse branches which pass across from one to the other. These communica- tions are strikingly exhibited in the frequent inosculations of the spinal veins, and in the various venous plexuses, as the spermatic plexus, vesical plexus, &c. The office of these inosculations is very apparent, as tending to obviate the obstructions to which the veins are particular!)' liable from the thinness of their coats, and from their in- ability to overcome much impediment by the force of their current. Veins, like arteries, are composed of three coats, external or areolo- fibrous, middle or fibrous, and internal or serous. The eodernal coat is firm and strong, and resembles that of arteries. The middle coat consists of two layers, an outer layer of contractile fibrous tissue dis- posed in a circular direction around the vessel, and an inner layer of organic muscular fibres arranged longitudinally. This latter resem- bles the inner layer of the middle coat of arteries, but is somewhat thicker ; it is not unfrequently hj'pertrophied. The internal coaU as in arteries, consists of a striated or fenestrated layer, and a layer of epithelium ; it is continuous with the internal coat of arteries through the medium of the lining membrane of the heart on the one hand, and through the capillary vessels on the other. The differences in structure, therefore, between arteries and veins, relate to the differ- ence of thickness of their component layers, and to the absence of the elastic coat in the latter. Moreover, another difference occurs in the presence of valves. The valves of veins are composed of a thin layer of fibrous membrane, lined upon its two surfaces by epithelium. The segments or flaps of the valves of veins are semilunar in form and arranged in pairs, one upon either side of the vessel ; in some in- stances there is but a single flap, which has a spiral direction, and occasionally there are three. The free border of the valvular flaps is ■ concave, and directed forwards, so that while the current of blood is ; permitted to flow freely towards the heart, the valves are distended : and the current intercepted if the stream become retrograde in its I course. Upon the cardiac side of each valve the vein is expanded : into two pouches (sinuses), corresponding with the flaps of the valves, which give to the distended or injected vein a knotted appearance. ' The valves are most numerous in the veins of the extremities, particu- ^ larly in the deeper veins, and they are generally absent in the very * small veins, and in the veins of the viscera, as in the portal and cere-