293 GENERAL ANATOMY OF ARTERIES. ■which the apex might be represented by the aorta, and tlie base by the smiace of the body. The advantage of this important principle in facilitating the circulation is sufficiently obvious ; for the increased channel which is thus provided for the current of the blood, serves to compensate for the retarding influence of friction, resulting from the distance of the heart and the division of the vessels. Communications between arteries are very free and numerous, and increase in frequency with the diminution in size of the branches; so that, through the medium of the minute ramifications, the entire body may be considered as one uninterrupted circle of inosculations, or anastomoses (ava between, aT'o(/.a, mouth). This increase in the fre- quency of anastomosis in the smaller branches is a provision for coun- teracting the greater liability to impediment existing in them than in the larger branches. Where freedom of circulation is of vital import- ance, this communication of the arteries is very remarkable, as in the circle of Willis in the cranium, or in the distribution of the arteries of the heart. It is also strikingly seen in situations where obstruction is most likely to occur, as in the distribution to the alimentary canal, around joints, or in the hand and foot. Upon this free communication existing everywhere between arterial branches is founded the prin- ciple of cure in the ligature of large arteries ; the ramifications of the branches given off from the artery above the ligature inosculate with those which proceed from the trunk of the vessel below the ligature ; these anastomosing branches enlarge and constitute a collateral circu- lation , in which, as is shewn in the beautiful preparations made by Sir Astley Cooper, several large branches perform the office of the single obliterated trunk. The arteries do not terminate directly in veins ; but in an inter- mediate system of vessels, which, from their minute size (about of an inch in diameter,) are termed capillaries (capillus, a hair). The capillaries constitute a microscopic network, which is distributed through every part of the body, so as to render it impossible to in- troduce the smallest needle point beneath the skin without wounding several of these fine vessels. It is through the medium of the capilla- ries, that all the phenomena of nutrition and secretion are performed. They are remarkable for their uniformity of diameter, and for the constant divisions and commimications which take place between them, without any alteration of size. They inosculate on the one hand with the terminal ramusculi of the arteries ; and on the other with the minute radicles of the veins. Arteries are composed of three coats, external, middle, and internal. The external or areolo-fibrous coat is firm and strong, and serves at the same time as the chief means of resistance of the vessel, and of connection to surrounding parts. It consists of condensed areolo- fibrous tissue, strengthened by an interlacement of glistening fibres • 1 have a preparation, shewing the collateral circulation in a dog, in which I tied the abdominal aorta; the animal died from over-feeding nearly two years after the operation.