PRiEVERTEBRAL MUSCLES. 193 the posterior pillar of the palate, it is surrounded for two-thirds of its extent by mucous membrane. In the pharynx, it is in relation by its outer surface with, the superior and middle constrictor muscles, and by its inner surface with the mucous membrane of the pharynx, the pha- rj'iigeal fascia being interposed. Actions,—The azygos uvulae shortens the uvula. The levator palati raises the soft palate, while the tensor spreads it out laterally so as to form a septum between the pharynx and posterior nares. Taking its fixed point from below, the tensor palati will dilate the Eustachian tube. The palato-glossus and palato-pharjmgeus constrict the opening of the fauces, and by drawing down the soft palate, they serve to press the mass of food from the dorsum of the tongue into the pharynx. Seventh Group.—Prcevertehral Muscles. Rectus anticus major, Rectus anticus minor. Scalenus anticus. Scalenus posticus, Longus colli. Dissection.—These muscles have already been exposed by the removal of the face from the anterior aspect of the vertebral colmnn ; all that is further needed is the removal of the fascia, by which they are invested. The Rectus anticus major, broad and thick above, and narrow and pointed below, arises from the anterior tubercles of the transverse processes of the third, fourth, fifth, and sixth cervical vertebrae, and is inserted into the basilar process of the occipital bone. Be/ations.—By its anterior surface with the pharynx, the internal carotid arterj-, internal jugular vein, superior cervical ganglion, sympa- thetic nen-e, pneumogastric, and spinal accessory nerve. By its pos- terior surface with the longus colli, rectus anticus minor, and superior cen ical vertebrae. The Rectus anticus minor arises from the anterior border of the lateral mass of the atlas, and is inserted into the basilar process; its fibres being directed obliquely upwards and itiwards. Relations.—By its anterior surface with the rectus anticus major, and externally with the superior cervical gangbon of the sympathetic. By its posterior surface with the articulation of the condyle of the occipital bone with the atlas, and with the anterior occipito-atloid ligament. The Scalenus anticus is a triangular muscle, as its name implies, situated at the root of the neck, and appearing like a continuation of the rectus anticus major ; it arises from the anterior tubercles of the transverse processes of the third, fourth, fifth, and sixth cervical vcr- tebrze, and is inserted into the tubercle upon the inner border of the first rib. Relations.—By its anterior surface with the sterno-mastoid and o