t ( 54B ORGANS OF RESPIRATION AND VOICE. The organs of respiration are the two lungs, with their air-tube, the trachea, to the upper part of which is adapted an apparatus of carti- lages, constituting the organ of voice, or larynx. THE LARYNX. The Larynx is situated at the fore part of the neck, between the trachea and the base of the tongue. It is a short tube, having an hour-glass form, and is composed of cartilages, ligaments, muscles, vessels, nerves, and mucous membrane. The Cartilages are the— Thyroid, Cricoid, Two arytenoid. Two cuneiform. Epiglottis. The Thyroid (9-v^sos—sTSaj, like a shield) is the largest cartilage of the larynx : it consists of two lateral portions, or alee, which meet at an angle in front, and form the projection which is known by the name of poinum Adami. In the male, after puberty, the angle of union of the two alae is acute ; in the female, and before puberty in the male, it is obtuse. Where the pomum Adami is prominent, a bursa mucosa is often found between it and the skin. Each ala is quadrilateral in shape, and forms a rounded border posteriorly, which terminates above, in the superior cornu, and below, in the inferior cornu. Upon the side of the ala is an oblique line, or ridge, directed downwards and forwards, and bounded at each ex- tremity by a tubercle. Into this line the sterno-thyroid muscle is in- serted ; and from it the thj^ro-hyoid and inferior constrictor take their origin. In the receding angle, formed by the meeting of the two alae upon the inner side of the cartilage, and near its lower border, are attached the epiglottis, the chordae vocales, the thyro-arytenoid, and thyro-epiglottidean muscles. The Cricoid —iTlo;, like a ring) is a ring of cartilage, narrow in front, and broad behind where it is surmounted by two rounded surfaces, which articulate with the arytenoid cartilages. At the middle line, posteriorly, is a vertical ridge which gives attachment to the oesophagus, and on each side of the ridge are the depressions which lodge the crico-arj'tenoidei postici muscles. On either side of the ring is a glenoid cavity, which articulates w’ith the inferior cornu of the thyroid cartilage.