299 ARTERIA INKOMINATA. , divides into two branches; one of which winds around the base of the left ventricle in the auriculo-ventricular groove, and inosculates with the right coronar}', forming an arterial circle around the base of the I heart; while the other passes along the line of union of the two ven- ■ tricles, upon the anterior aspect of the heart, to its apex, where it I anastomoses -with the descending branch of the right coronary. It [ supplies the left auricle and the anterior surface of both ventricles, j The right, or posterior coronary, passes forwards, between the root I of the pulmonary artery and the right auricle, and winds along the I auriculo-ventricular groove, to the posterior median furrow, where it i . descends upon the posterior aspect of the heart to its apex, and I inosculates with the left coronary. It is distributed to the right t ’ auricle, and to the posterior surface of both ventricles, and sends a I large branch along the sharp margin of the right ventricle to the apex I of the heart. ‘ ARTERIA INNOMINATA. I The Arteria innominata (fig. 118, No. 4) is the first artery given f, off by the arch of the aorta. It is an inch and a half in length, and ascends obliquely towards the right stemo-clavicular articulation, > where it divides into the right carotid and right subclavian artery. Itelations.—It is in relation, in front, with the left vena innomi- nata, the thymus gland, and the origins of the stemo-thyroid and stemo-hyoid muscles, which separate it from the sternum. Behind, with the trachea, pneumogastric nerve and cardiac nerves; externally, wth the right vena innominata and pleura ; and internally, with the origin of the left carotid. Plan of the Relations of the Arteria Innominata. In Front. Left vena innominata, Tbjmus gland, Stemo-thyroid, Stemo-hyoid. Behind. Trachea, Pneumogastric nerve. Cardiac nerves. The arteria innominata occasionally gives off a small branch, which ascends along the middle of the trachea to the thyroid gland. This branch was described by Neubauer, and Dr. Harrison names it the middle thyroid artery. A knowledge of its existence is important in : performing the operation of tracheotomy. Left Side. Left carotid. Right Side. Right vena inno- minata. Pleura.