372 LATERAL SINUfiE.S. tation is named the torcular iteropldli,* <and is the point of communica- tion of six sinuses, the superior longitudinal, two lateral, two occipital and the straight. The Inferior longitudinal sinus is situated in the free margin of the falx cerebri ; it is cylindrical in form, and extends from near the crista galli to the anterior border of the tentorium, where it terminates in the straight sinus. It receives in its course several veins from the falx. The Straight or fourth sinus is the sinus of the tentorium ; it is situated at the line of union of the falx with the tentorium ; is pris- moid in form, and extends across the tentorium, from the termination of the inferior longitudinal sinus to the torcular Ilerophili. It receives the venae Galeni, the cerebral veins from the inferior part of the pos- terior lobes, and the superior cerebellar veins. The Occipital sinuses are two canals of small size, situated in the attached border of the falx cerebelli; they commence by several small veins around the foramen magnum, and terminate by separate open- ings in the torcular Herophili. They not unfrequently communicate with the termination of the lateral sinuses. The Lateral sinuses, commencing at the torcular Herophili, pass horizontally outwards, in the attached margin of the tentorium, and then curve downwards and inwards along the base of the petrous portion of the temporal bone, at each side, to the foramina lacera posteriora, where they terminate in the internal jugular veins. Each sinus rests in its course on the transverse groove of the occipital bone, posterior inferior angle of the parietal, mastoid portion of the temporal, and again on the occipital bone. They receive the cerebral veins from the inferior surface of the posterior lobes, the inferior cerebellar veins, the superior petrosal sinuses, the mastoid, and pos- terior condyloid veins, and at their termination, the inferior petrosal sinuses. These sinuses are often unequal in size, the right being larger than the left. The sinuses of the base of the skull are the— Cavernous, Inferior petrosal. Circular, Superior petrosal, Transverse. The Cavernous sinuses are named from presenting a structure similar, to that of the corpus cavemosum penis. They are situated on each side of the sella turcica, receiving, anteriorly, the ophthalmic veins through the sphenoidal fissures, and terminating posteriorly in the in- ferior petrosal sinuses. In the internal wall of each cavernous sinus is Torcular (a press), from a supposition entertained by the older anatomists that the columns of blood, coming in different directions, compressed each other at this point.