251 MUSCLES OF THE GLUTEAL REGION. FOOT. Dorsal Region. Extensor brevis digitorum, Interossei dorsales. Isi Layer. Abductor pollicis, Abductor minimi digiti. Flexor brevis digitorum. 2nd Layer. Musculus accessorius, Lumbricales. Plantar Region. Zrd Layer. Flexor brevis pollicis, Adductor pollicis. Flexor brevis minimi digiti, Transversus pedis. ith Layer. Interossei plantares. GLUTEAL REGION. Gluteus maximus. Gluteus medius. Gluteus minimus, Pyriformis, Gemellus superior. Obturator intemus. Gemellus inferior. Obturator extemus, Quadratus femoris. Dissection. — The subject being turned on its face, and a block placed beneath the os pubis to support the pelvis, the student commences the dissection of this region, by carrying an incision from the apex of the coccyx along the crest of the ilium to its anterior superior spinous : process ; or vice versa, if he be on the left side. He then makes an incision from the posterior fifth of the crest of the ilium, to the apex of the trochanter major, this marks the upper border of the gluteus ; maximus ; and a third incision from the apex of the coccyx along the : fleshy margin of the lower border of the gluteus maximus, to the outer - side of the thigh, about four inches below the apex of the trochanter rmajor. He then reflects the integument, superficial fascia, and deep tfascia, which latter is very thin over this muscle, from the gluteus nmaximus, following rigidly the course of its fibres ; and having ex- pposed the muscle in its entire extent, he dissects the integument and i'Superficial fascia from off the deep fascia which binds down the gluteus rmedius, the other portion of this region. The Gluteus maximus {yXovris, nates) is the thick, fleshy mass (of muscle, of a quadrangular shape, which forms the convexity of the mates. In structure, it is extremely coarse, being made up of large tfibres, which are collected into fasciculi, and these again into distinct nmuscular masses, separated by deep areolar furrows. It arises from Uhe posterior fifth of the crest of the ilium, from the posterior surface of the sacrum and coccyx, and from the great sacro-ischiatic ligament. 1 It passes obliquely outwards and downwards, to be inserted into the