101 TARSUS.—ASTRAGALUS. which bound the triangular subcutaneous surface of the external mal- leolus. The external border begins at the base of the styloid process upon the head of the fibula, and winds around the bone, following the direction of the corresponding surface. The posterior border is sharp and prominent, and is lost interiorly in the interosseous ridge. Development.—By three centres; one for the shaft, and one for each extremity. Ossification commences in the shaft soon after its appearance in the tibia; at birth the extremities are cartilaginous, an ossific deposit taking place in the inferior epiphysis during the second year, and in the superior during the foiuth or fifth. The inferior epiphysis is the first to become united with the diaphysis, but the bone is not completed until nearly the twenty-fifth year. Articulations.—With the tibia and astragalus. Attachment of Muscles.—To m'we ; by the head, to the tendon of the biceps and soleus ; by the shaft, its external surface, to the per- oneus longus and brevis ; internal surface, to the extensor longus digitorum, extensor proprius pollicis, peroneus tertius, and tibialis posticus ; by the posterior surface, to the popliteus and flexor longus pollicis. Tarsus.—The bones of the tarsus are seven in number: viz. the astragalus, calcaneus, scaphoid, internal, middle, and external cunei- form, and cuboid. The Astragalus (os tali) may be recognised by its rounded head, a broad articular facet upon its convex surface, and two articular facets, separated by a deep groove, upon its concave surface. The bone is divisible into a superior and inferior surface, an external and internal border, and an anterior and posterior extremity. The su- perior surface is convex, and presents a large quadrilateral and smooth facet somewhat broader in front than behind, to articulate with the tibia. The inferior surface is concave, and di^dded by a deep and rough groove (sulcus tali), which lodges a strong interosseous ligament, into two facets, the posterior large and quadrangular, and the aJiterior smaller and elliptic, which articulate with the os calcis. The internal border is flat and irregular, and marked by a pyriform articular sur- face, for the inner malleolus. The eocternal presents a large triangular articular facet, for the external malleolus, and is rough and concave in front. The anterior extremity presents a rounded head, surrounded bj' The surface of the shaft upon which the flexor longus digitorum muscle rests. 8. The broad groove on the back part of the inner malleolus, for the tendons of the flexor longus digitorum and tibialis posticus. 9. The groove for the tendon of the flexor longus pollicis. 10. The shaft of the fibula. The flexor longus pollicis muscle lies upon this surface of the bone; its superior limit being marked by the oblique line Immediately above the number. 11. Tlie styloid process on the head of the fibula for the attachment of the tendon of tlie biceps muscle. 12. The subcutaneous surface of the lower part of the shaft of the fibula. 13. Tlio extenial malleolus formed by the lower extremity of the fibula. 14. The groove upon the posterior part of the external malleolus for the ten- dons of the peronei muscles.