LYMPHATICS OF THE HE,\D AND NECK. 38f) the vessels are small, and least numerously in the lower limbs where the lymphatics are larger. In the thoracic duct an interspace of two or three inches frequently occurs between the valves. Connected with the presence of valves in the lymphatic vessels, are two lateral dilatations or pouches, analogous to the valvular sinuses of veins. These sinuses are situated on the cardiac side of the valves; they re- ceive the valves when the latter are thrown back by the current of the lymph; and when reflux occurs, they become distended with a body of fluid which makes pressure on the flaps. These pouch-like dilatations and the constrictions corresponding with the line of attachment of the convex borders of the flaps are the cause of the knotted appearance of distended Ijrmphatic vessels. Like arteries and veins, Ijunphatic vessels are composed of three coats, external, middle, and internal. The external coat is areolo- fibrous, like that of blood-vessels; it is thin, but very strong, and serves to connect the vessel to surrounding tissues, at the same time that it forms a protective covering. The middle coat is thin and elastic, and consists of a layer of longitudinal fibres analogous to those of the innermost layer of the middle coat of arteries and veins. Some few circiflar fibres may be seen externally to these in the larger lym- phatic vessels. The internal coat is inelastic and more liable to rup- ture than the other coats. It is a serous layer continuous with the lining membrane of the veins, and invested by an epithelium. The valves are composed of a very thin layer of fibrous tissue coated on its two surfaces by epithelium. The Ivrmphatic glands (conglobate, absorbent) are small oval and somewhat flattened or rounded bodies, composed of a plexus of minute lymphatic vessels, associated with a plexus of blood-vessels, and en- closed in a thin capsule of areolar tissue. When examined on the surface they are seen to have a lobulated appearance, while the face of a section is cellular from the division of the numberless convolutions which are formed by the lymphatic vessels within its substance. The . colour of the glands is a pale pink, excepting those of the lungs, the i bronchial glands, which in the adult are more or less mottled with black, • and are sometimes filled with a black pigment. Lymphatic glands are I larger in the young subject than in the adult, and are smallest in old I'.age ; they, as well as their vessels, are supplied with arteries, veins and I nerves, like other structures. I shall describe the lymphatic vessels and glands according to the rarrangement adopted for the veins, commencing with those of the ^.head and neck, and proceeding next to those of the upper extremity, . lower extremity, and trunk. LYMPHATICS OF THF. HEAD AND NECK. The Superjicial lymphatic glands of the head and face are small, few :.n munber, and isolated; they are, the occipital, which are situated