TRAPEZOIDES.—OS MAGNUM, 85 ' I one extremity and broad at the other, where it presents the groove . j iind tubercle. : j If the bone be held so that the grooved border look upwards while : j the apex of this border be directed forwards, and the base with the , i tubercle backwards, the concavo-convex surface wiU point to the hand to which the bone belongs. Articulations.—With four bones; by the concavo-convex surface, I with the metacarpal bone of the thumb; and by the three facets of ‘ ■ the other articular surface, with the scaphoid, trapezoid, and second metacarpal bone. Attachments.—To tico muscles, abductor poUicis and flexor ossis • metacarpi; and by the tubercle, to the annular ligament. ’ The TRAPEZOIDES (os multangulum minus) is a small, oblong, and t quadrilateral bone, bent near its middle upon itself (bean-shaped). It 1' presents four articular surfaces and two extremities. One of the sur- > i : faces is cmicavo-conveoe, i. e. concave in one direction, and convex in 'I the other; another,contiguous to the preceding, is concave, so as to be K i i almost angular in the middle, and is often marked by a small rough ’ depression, for an interosseous ligament; the two remaining sides are flat, and present nothing remarkable. One of the two extremities is ’ broad and of large size, the dorsal; the other, or palmar, \a small and i : rough. I If the bone be held perpendicularly, so that the broad extremity be .« ■ upwards, and the concavo-convex surface forwards, the angular concave t ; surface will point to the hand to which the bone belongs. Artkulaiions.—With bones; by the concavo-convex surface, ! • with the second metacarpal bone; by the angular concave surface, i: with the os magnum ; and by the other two surfaces, with the trape- •; i zium and scaphoid. Attachments.—To the flexor brevis pollicis muscle. IThe os MAGNUM (capitatum) is the largest bone of the carpus, and is divisible into a body and head. The head is round for the greater part of its extent, but is flattened on one side. lAiohody is irregularly quadrilateral, and presents four sides and a smooth extremity. Two of the sides are rough, the one being square and flat, the dorsal, the other rounded and prominent, the palmar; the other two sides are articular, the one being concave, the other convex. The extremity is .a triangular articular surface, divided into three facets. If the bone be held perpendicularly, so that the articular extremity ; look upwards, and the broad dorsal surface backwards (towards the i holder), the concave articular surface will point to the hand to which ! the bone belongs. Articulations.—With seven bones; by the rounded head, with the t cup formed by the scaphoid and semilunar bone; by the side of the convex surface, with the trapezoides ; by the concave surface, with the unciforme ; and by the extremity, with the second, third, and fourth : metacarpal bones. Attachments.—To the flexor brevis pollicis muscle. i