SEMICIRCULAR CANALS.—COCHLEA. 520 Tlie Openings for arteries and nerves are situated in tlie internal wall of the vestibule, and correspond with the termination of the meatus auditorius internus. The Semicircular canals are three bony passages communi- cating with the vestibule, into which they open by both extremities. Near one extremity of each of the canals is a remarkable dilatation of its cavity, which is called the ampulla (sinus ampullaceus). The superior, or perpendicular canal (danalis semicircularis verticalis supe- rior), is directed transversely across the petrous bone, forming a pro- jection on the anterior face of the latter. It commences, by means of an ampulla, in the superior ventricle of the vestibule, and terminates posteriorly by joining with the oblique, and forming a common canal, which opens into the upper part of the posterior ventricle. The middle or oblique canal (canalis semicircularis verticalis posterior) cor- responds with the posterior part of the petrous portion of the temporal bone : it commences by an ampullary dilatation in the posterior ven- tricle, and curves nearly perpendicularly upwards to terminate in the common canal. In the ampulla of this canal are numerous minute openings for nervous filaments. The inferior or horizontal canal (canalis semicircularis horizontalis) is directed outwards towards the base of the petrous bone, and is shorter than the two preceding. It commences by an ampullary dilatation in the superior ventricle, and terminates in the posterior ventricle. The Cochlea {snail-shell) forms the anterior portion of the laby- rinth, corresponding by its apex with the anterior wall of the petrous bone, and by its base with the anterior depression at the bottom of the cul de sac of the meatus auditorius internus. It consists of an osseous and gradually tapering canal, about one inch and a half in length, which makes two turns and a half spirally around a central axis, called the modiolus. The central axis, or modiolus, is large near its base, where it corre- sponds with the .first turn of the cochlea, and diminishes in diameter towards its extremity. At its base, it is pierced by numerous minute openings, which transmit the filaments of the coch.ear nerve. These openings are disposed in a spiral manner: hence they have received, from Cotunnius,* the name of tractus spiralis foraminn- lentus. The modiolus is everywhere traversed, in the direction of its length, by minute canals, which proceed from the tractus spiralis foraininulentus, and terminate upon the sides of the modiolus, by opening into the canal of the cochlea or upon the surface of its lamina spiralis. The central canal of the tractus spiralis foraminulentus is larger than the rest, and is named the tubiilus centralis modioli ; it is continued onwards to the extremity of the modiolus, and transmits a nerve and small artery (arteria centralis modioli). • Bominico Cotunnius, an Italian physician ; his dissertation “ De Aquse- ductibus Auris Humane Internas” was published at Naples in 17C1.