71 TERNUM. project backwards from the body; and two lesser cornua, which ascend from the angles of union between the body and the greater cornua. The body is somewhat quadrila- teral, rough and convex on its ante- ro-superior surface, by which it gives attachment to muscles; con- cave and smooth on the postero-in- ferior surface, by which it lies in contact with the thyro-hyoidean membrane. The greater cornua are flattened from above downwards, and terminated posteriorly by a tubercle; and the lesser cornua, conical in form, give attachment to the stylo-hyoid ligaments. In early age and in the adult, the cor- nua are connected with the body by cartilaginous surfaces and liga- mentous fibres ; but in old age they become united by bone. Development.—By five centres, one for the body, and one for each cornu. Ossification commences in the greater cornua during the last month of foetal life, and in the lesser cornua and body soon after birth. Attachment of Muscles.—To el&oen pairs; sterno-hyoid, thjTO-hyoid, omo-hyoid, pulley of the digastricus, stylo-hyoid, raylo-hyoid, genio- hyoid, genio-hyo-glossus,hyo-glossus, lingualis, and middle constrictor of the pharynx. It also gives attachment to the stylo-hyoid, thyro- hyoid, and hyo-epiglottic ligaments,' and to the thyro-hyoidean mem- brane. THORAX AND UPPER EXTREMITY. The bones of the thorax are the sternum and ribs; and those-of the upper extremity, the clavicle, scapula, humerus, ulna and radius, bones of the carpus, metacarpus, and phalanges. Sternum.—The sternum (fig. 33) is situated in the middle line of the front of the chest, and is oblique in direction, the superior end lying within a few inches of the vertebral column, and the inferior being projected forwards so as to be placed at a considerable distance from the spine. The bone is flat or slightly concave in front, and marked by five transverse lines which indicate its original subdivision into six pieces. It is convex behind, broad and thick above, flattened and pointed below, and is divisible in the adult into three pieces, superior, middle, and inferior. The superior piece or manubrium is nearly quadrilateral; it is broad and thick above, where it presents a concave border (incisura semi- * The 08 hyoides seen from before. 1. The antero-superior, or convex side of the body. 2. The great cornu of the left side. 3. The lesser cornu of the same side. The cornua were ossifled to the body of the bone in the specimen from which this figure was drawn.