CRURAL NERVE. 475 thigh, and supplies the integument in that region. The anterior nerve dindes into two branches, which are distributed to the integument of the outer border of the thigh, and to the articulation of the knee. The Genito-crural proceeds also from the second lumbar nerve. It traverses the psoas magnus from behind forwards, and runs down the anterior surface of that muscle, lying beneath its fascia, to near Poupart’s ligament, where it divides into a genital and a crural branch. The genital branch (n. spermaticus seu pudendus extemus) crosses the external iliac artery to the internal abdominal ring, and descends along the spermatic canal, lying behind the cord, to the scrotum, where it divides into branches which supply the spermatic cord and cremaster muscle. In the female it gives branches to the round liga- ment and external labium. At the internal abdominal ring this nerve sends off a branch which, after supplying the lower border of the in- ternal oblique and transversalis, is distributed to the integument of the groin. The crural branch (lumbo-inguinalis), the most external of the two, descends along the outer border of the external iliac artery, and, crossing the origin of the circumflex ilii, enters the sheath of the femo- ral vessels in front of the femoral artery. It pierces the sheath below Poupart’s ligament, and is distributed to the integument of the ante- rior aspect of the thigh as far as its middle. This nerve is often very small, and sometimes communicates with one of the cutaneous branches of the crural nerve. The Crural, or Femoral nerve, is the largest of the divisions of the lumbar plexus ; it is formed by the \inion of branches from the second, third, and fourth lumbar nerves, and, emerging from beneath the psoas muscle, passes downwards in the groove between it and the iliacus, and beneath Poupart’s ligament into the thigh, where it spreads out and divides into numerous branches. At Poupart’s liga- ment it is separated from the femoral artery by the breadth of the psoas muscle (which at this point is scarcely more than half an inch in diameter), and by the iliac fascia, beneath which it lies. Branches.—While situated within the pelvis, the crural nerve gives off several muscular branches to the iliacus, and one to the psoas. On emerging from beneath Poupart’s ligament, the nerve becomes flat- tened, and divides into numerous branches, which may be arranged into— Cutaneous, Muscular, Branch to the femoral sheath. Short saphenous nerve. Long saphenous nerve. The Cutaneous nerves (middle cutaneous), two in number, proceed •from the anterior part of the' crural, and after perforating the sar- ■torius muscle, to which they give filaments, pierce the fascia lata, and