448 FACIAL NERVE. the other nerves, and, resting against the internal carotid artery, passes between the two heads of the cxtcnial rectus, and is distributed to that muscle. As it enters the orbit, it lies upon the ophthalmic vein, from which it is separated by a lamina of dura mater. In the cavern- ous sinus it is joined by several filaments from the carotid plexus, by one from Meckel’s ganglion, and one from the ophthalmic nerve. Mr. Mayo traced the origin of this nerve between the fasciculi of the cor- pora pyramidalia to the posterior part of the medulla oblongata; and Mr. Grainger pointed out its connection with the grey substance of the spinal cord. Seventh pair.—The seventh pair consists of two neires* which lie side by side on the posterior border of the crus cerebelli. The smaller and most internal of these, and, at the same time, the most dense in texture, is the facial nerve or portio dura. The external nerve, which is soft and pulpy, and often grooved by contact with the preceding, is the auditory nerve or portio mollis of the seventh pair. Soemmering makes the auditory nerve the eighth pair; but, retaining the classifica- tion of Willis, we regard it as a part of the seventh. Facial Nerve (portio dura).—The facial nerve arises from the upper part of the groove between the corpus olivare and corpus resti- forme, close to the pons Varolii, from which point its fibres may be traced deeply into the corpus restiforme. The nerve then passes for- wards, resting on the crus cerebelli, and comes into relation with the auditory nerve, with which it enters the meatus auditorius intemus, lying at first to the inner side of, and then upon that nerve. At the bottom of the meatus it enters the canal expressly intended for it, the aqueductus Fallopii, and directs its course forwards towards the hiatus Fallopii, where it forms a gangliform swelling (intumescentia gangli- formis, ganglion geniculare), and receives the petrosal branch of the Vidian nerve. It then curves backwards towards the tjunpanum, and descends along the inner wall of that cavity to the stylo-mastoid fora- men. Emerging at the stylo-mastoid foramen, it passes forwards within the parotid gland, crossing the external jugular vein and exter- ■ nal carotid artery, and at the ramus of the low'er jaw divides into two trunks, temporo-facial and cervico-facial. These trunks at once split |j into numerous branches, which, after forming a number of looped com- > munications (pes anserinus) with each other over the masseter muscle, •: spread out upon the side of the face, from the temple to the neck, to ] be distributed to the muscles of this extensive region. The communications which the facial nerve maintains in its course v * A third nerve of small size, the portio intermedia of Wrisberg, is brought | into view by separating these two trunks. The researches of Dr. Morganti go to show that the portio intermedia is connected, at its origin in the corpus rosti- fonne, with the auditory nerve ; that it is the posterior or sensitive root of the facial; that the intumescentia gangliformis of the facial, is the ganglion of this root; that it bestows the principal part of the sensitive function on the facial; and that the chorda tympani is partly derived from the intumescentia gan^i- formis.