582 THE EIVER. Serous Coat.—The pharynx and oesophagus have no covering of. serous membrane. The alimentary canal within the abdomen has a serous layer, derived from the peritoneum. The Stomach is completely surrounded by peritoneum, excepting along the line of junction of the great and lesser omentum. The or oblique portion of the duodenum is also completely included by the serous membrane, with the exception of the points of attachment of the omenta. The descending portion has merely a partial covering on its anterior surface. The tranverse portion is also behind the peritoneum, being situated between the two layers of the transverse meso-colon, and has but a partial covering. The rest of the small intestine is completely invested by it, excepting along the concave bor- der to which the mesentery is attached. The caecum is more or less in- vested by the peritoneum, the more frequent disposition being that in which the intestine is surrounded for three-fourths only of its circum- ference. The ascending and the descending colon are covered by the serous membrane only in front. The transverse colon is invested completely, with the exception of the lines of attachment of the greater omentum and transverse meso-colon. And the sigmoid flexure is entirely surrounded, with the exception of the part corresponding with the junction of the left meso-colon. The upper third of the rectum is completely enclosed by the peritoneum; the middle third has an anterior covering only, and the inferior third none whatso- ever. Vessels and Nerves.— The Arteries of the alimentary canal, as the}' supply the tube from above downwards, are the pterygo-palatine, ascending pharyngeal, superior thyroid, and inferior thyroid, in the neck; oesophageal, in the thorax; gastric, hepatic, splenic, superior and inferior mesenteric, in the abdomen; and inferior mesenteric, iliac, and internal pudic, in the pelvis. The veins from the abdominal ali- mentary canal unite to form the vena portae. The lymphatics and lacteals open into the thoracic duct. The Nerves of the pharynx and oesophagus are derived from the glosso-pharyngeal, pneumogastric, and sympathetic. The nerves of the stomach are the pneumogastric, and sympathetic branches from the solar plexus; and those of the intestinal canal are the superior and inferior mesenteric and hypogastric plexuses. The extremity of the rectum is supplied by the inferior sacral nerves from the spinal cord. THE LIVER. The liver is a conglomerate gland of large size, appended to the alimentary canal, and performing the double office of separating impu- rities from the venous blood of the chylo-poietic viscera previously to its return into the general venous circulation, and of secreting a fluid necessary to chylification,.the bile. It is the largest organ in the body,