495 CHAPTER IX. ORGANS OF SENSE. The organs of sense, the instruments by which the animal frame is brought into relation with surroimding nature, are five in number. Four of these organs are situated within the head : viz. the apparatus of smell, sight, hearing, and taste; and the remaining organ, of touch, is resident in the skin, and distributed over the surface of the bod^'. THE NOSE AND NASAL FOSSiE. The organ of smell consists essentially of two parts : one external, the nose ; the other internal, the nasal fosses. The nose is the triangidar pyramid which projects from the centre of the face, immediately above the upper lip. Superiorly it is connected with the forehead by means of a narrow bridge; inferiorly, it presents two openings, the nostrils, which overhang the mouth, and are so constructed that the odour of aU substances must be received by the nose before they can be introduced within the lips. The septum between the openings of the nostrils is called the columna. Their entrance is guarded by a number of stiff hairs (vibrissce) which project across the openings, and act as a filter in preventing the introduction of foreign substances, such as dust or insects, with the current of air intended for respiration. The anatomical elements of which the nose is composed, are—1. i Integument. 2. Muscles, 3. Bones. 4. Fibro-cartilages. 5. Mucous 1 membrane. 6. Vessels and nerves. 1. The Integument forming the tip (lobulus) and wings (aZ<®) of the : nose is extremely thick and dense, so as to be with difficulty separated fifrom the fibro-cartilage. It is furnished with an abundance of sebi- l-parous follicles, which, by their oily secretion, protect the extremity of i the nose in excessive alternations of temperature. The sebaceous mat- : ter of these follicles becomes of a dark colour upon the surface, from uthe attraction of the carbonaceous matter floating in the atmosphere; bhence the spotted appearance which the tip of the nose presents in i.'large cities. When the integument is firmly compressed, the inspis- sated sebaceous secretion is squeezed out from the follicles, and taking the cylindrical form of their excretory ducts, has the appearance of : small white maggots with black heads. I