493 LUMBAR GANGLIA. fonn a gangliform circle, from which branches pass off in all directions, like rays from a centre. Hence the entire circle has been named the solar plexus. The Solar plexus receives the great splanchnic nerves ; part of the lesser splanchnic nerves; the termination of the right pneumogastric nerve; some branches from the right phrenic nerve; and sometimes one or two filaments from tlie left. It sends forth numerous filaments which accompany, under the name of plexuses, all the branches given off by the abdominal aorta. Thus, we have, derived from the solar plexus, the— Phrenic plexuses, Gastric plexus. Hepatic plexus. Splenic plexus, Supra-renal plexuses, Renal plexuses, Superior mesenteric plexus, Spennatic plexuses, Inferior mesenteric plexus. The Renal pleocus is formed chiefly by the lesser splanchnic nerve, but receives many filaments from the solar plexus. The Spermatic plexus is formed principally by the renal plexus. The Inferior mesenteric plexus receives filaments from the aortic plexus. LUMBAR GANGLIA. The Lumbar ganglia, four in number at each side, of a pearly grey colour and fusiform shape, are situated on the anterior part of the bodies of the lumbar vertebrie. The superior and inferior branches of the lumbar ganglia are branches of communication with the ganglion above and below, as in the dorsal region. The external branches, two or three in number, communicate with the lumbar nerves. The internal branches consist of two sets; of which the upper pass inwards in front of the abdominal aorta, and form around that trunk a plexiform interlacement, which constitutes the lumbar aortic pleams ; - the lower branches cross the common iliac arteries, and unite over the : promontory of the sacrum, to form the hypogastric plexus. The Lumbar aortic plexus is formed by branches from the lumbar ganglia, and receives filaments from the solar and superior mesenteric plexuses. It sends filaments to the inferior mesenteric plexus, and • terminates in the hypogastric plexus. The Hypogastric pleams is formed by the termination of the aortic plexus, and by the union of branches from the lower lumbar ganglia. It is situated over the promontory of the sacrum, between the two