LUMBAR PLEXUS. 473 coming cutaneous, supplies the integument of the lumbar region on the middle line. The external branches communicate with each other by several loops, and after supplying the deeper muscles, pierce the sacro- lumbalis to reach the integument to which they are distributed. The external branches of the three lower lumbar nerves (nervi clunium su- periores postici) descend over the posterior part of the crest of the ilium, and are distributed to the integument of the gluteal region. LUMB.4.R PLEXUS. The Lumbar plexus is formed by the communications and anasto- moses which take place between the anterior branches of the five lum- bar nerves, and between the latter and the last dorsal. It is narrow above, and increases in breadth inferiorly, and is situated between the transverse processes of the lumbar vertebrae and the quadratus lumbo- rum behind, and the psoas magnus muscle in front. The Branches of the lumbar plexus are the— Musculo-cutaneous, External cutaneous, Genito-crural, Crural, Obturator, Lumbo-sacral. The Musculo-cutaneous nerves, two in number, superior and inferior, proceed from the first lumbar nerve. The superior musculo- cutaneous nerve (ilio-scrotal, ilio-hypogastricus), passes outwards be- tween the posterior fibres of the psoas magnus, and crossing obliquely the quadratus lumborum to the middle of the crest of the ilium, pierces the transversalis muscle, and gives olf a cutaneous branch. It then winds along the crest of the ilium between the transversalis and in- ternal oblique, and divides into two branches, abdominal and scrotal. The abdominal branch is continued forwards parallel with the last in- tercostal nerve to near the rectus muscle, to which it sends branches, and perforates the aponeuroses of the internal and external oblique to be distributed to the integument of the mens pubis and groin. The scrotal branch, opposite the anterior superior spinous process of the ilium, communicates with the inferior musculo-cutaneous nerve, and passes forward to the external abdominal ring. It then pierces the cremaster muscle, and accompanies the spermatic cord in the male, and the round ligament in the female, to be distributed to the integument of the scrotum or external labium. The inferior musculo-cutaneous nerve (ilio-inguinal) also arises from the first lumbar nerve. It is smaller than the preceding, crosses the quadratus lumborum below it, and curves along the crest of the ilium to the anterior superior spinous process, resting in its course upon the iliac fascia. It then pierces