PNEUMOGASTRIC NERVE. 452 Tlie Branches of communication proceed from the ganglion and from the upper part of the trunk of the nerve, and are common to the facial, eighth pair, and sympathetic ; they form a complicated plexus at the base of the skull. The Tympanic branch (Jacobson’s nerve) proceeds from the ganglion of Andersch, or from the trunk of the nerve immediately above the ganglion : it enters a small bony canal in the jugular fossa (page 34), and divides into six branches, which are distributed upon the inner wall of the tympanum, and establish a plexiform communication (tym- panic plexus) with the sympathetic, and fifth pair of nerves. The branches of distribution supply the fenestra rotunda, fenestra ovalis, and Eustachian tube : those of communication join the carotid plexus, the petrosal branch of the Vidian nerve, and the otic ganglion. The Muscular branch divides into filaments, which are distributed to the stylo-pharyngeus muscle, to the posterior belly of the digastri- cus, and to the stylo-hyoideus. The Pharyngeal branches are two or three filaments which are distributed to the pharynx and unite with the pharyngeal branches of the pneumogastric and sympathetic nerve to form the pharyngeal plexus. The Lingual branches enter the substance of the tongue beneath the . hyo-glossus and stylo-glossus muscle, and are distributed to the mu- cous membrane of the side and base of the tongue, and to the epi- glottis and fauces. The Tonsillitic branches proceed from the glosso-pharyngeal nerve near its termination ; they form a plexus (circulus tonsillaris) around the base of the tonsil, from which numerous filaments are given oif to the mucous membrane of the fauces and soft palate. These fila- ments communicate with the posterior palatine branches of Meckel’s ganglion. Pneumogastric nerve (vagus).—The pneumogastric nerve arises by ten or fifteen filaments from the groove between the corpus olivare and corpus restiforme, immediately below the glosso-pharyngeal, and passes out of the skull through the inner extremity of the ju^ar fora- men in a distinct canal of the dura mater. While situated in this canal it presents a small rounded ganglion (ganglion jugulare); and having escaped from the skull, a gangliform swelling (plexus gangli- formis), nearly an inch in length, and surrounded by an irregular plexus of white nerves, which communicate with each other, with the other divisions of the eighth pair, and with the trunk of the pneumo- gastric below the ganglion. The plexus gangliformis (ganglion of the superior laryngeal branch, of Sir Astley Cooper), is situated, at first, behind the internal carotid artery, and then between that vessel and the internal jugular vein. The pneumogastric nerve then descends the neck within the sheath of the carotid vessels, Ijung behind and be- tween the artery and vein, to the root of the neck. Here the course of the nerve at opposite sides becomes different.