517 FORAMINA OF THE TYMPANUM. rather posteriorly to the fenestra ovalis, from which it is separated by a bony elevation, called i\\&promontory. It serves to establish a com- munication between the tympanum and the cochlea. In the fresh subject it is closed by a proper membrane (m. tympani secundaria,) as well as by the lining of both cavities. The Mastoid cells are numerous, and occupy the whole of the interior of the mastoid process and part of the petrous bone. They communicate by a large irregular opening with the upper and posterior circumference of the tympanum. The Eustachian tube is a canal of communication extending oblique- ly between the pharynx and the anterior circumference of the tympa- num. In structure it is partly fibro-cartilaginous and partly osseous, is broad and expanded at its pharyngeal extremity, and narrow and compressed at the tjunpanum. The smaller openings serve for the transmission of the chorda tym- pani nerve, and three of the muscles of the tympanum. The opening by which the chorda tympani enters the tympanum, is at about the middle of its posterior ivall, and near the root of the pyramid. The opening of exit for the chorda tympani is at the fissura Glaseri in the anterior xvall of the tympanum. The opening for the laxator tympani muscle is also situated in the fissura Glaseri, in the anterior wall of the tympanum. The opening for the tensor tympani muscle is in the inner wall, im- mediately above the opening of the Eustachian tube. The opening for the stapedius muscle is at the apex of a conical bony eminence, called the pyramid, Avhich is situated on the posterior wall of the t}Tnpanum, immediately behind the fenestra ovalis. Directly above the fenestra ovalis is a rounded ridge formed by the projection of the aquceductus Fallopii. Beneath the fenestra ovalis and separating it from the fenestra ro- tunda is the promontory, a rounded prominence formed by the projec- tion of the first turn of the cochlea. It is channelled upon its surface by three small grooves, which lodge the three tympanic branches of Jacobson’s nerve. The Foramina and processes of the tympanum may be arranged, according to their situation, into four groups. 1. In the External wall is the meatus auditorius, closed by the mertibrana tympani. 2. In the Inner wall, from above downwards, are the— Opening for the tensor tjunpani. Ridge of the aquaeductus Fallopii, Fenestra ovalis, Promontorj', Grooves for Jacobson’s nerve, Fenestra rotunda.