THE DUODENUM. 573 is embniced by the concave surface of the spleen. The pylorus is the small and contracted extremity of the organ; near its extremity is a small dilatation which was adled by Willis the antrum of the pylorus. The two curvatmres give attachment to the peritoneum ; the upper curve to the lesser omentum, and the lower to the greater omentum. The anterior surface looks upwards and forwards, and is in relation with the diaphragm, (which separates it from the viscera of the thorax and from the six lower ribs,) with the left lobe of the liver, and in the epigastric region with the abdominal parietes. The posterior surface looks downwards and backwards, and is in relation with the dia- phragm, the pancreas, the third portion of the duodenum, the trans- verse meso-colon, the left kidney, and left supra-renal capsule ; this sur- face forms the anterior boundary of that cul-de-sac of the peritoneum which is situated behind the lesser omentum and extends into the greater omentum. SMALL INTESTINES. The small intestine is about twenty-five feet in length, and is divi- sible into three portions, dttodenum, jejunum, and ileum. The Duodenum (called "haihxithaxTuXov by Herophilus) is somewhat larger than the rest of the small intestines, and has received its name from being about equal in length to the breadth of twelve fingers. Commencing at the pylorus, it ascends obliquely backwards to the un- der surface of the liver; it next descendsin front of the right kidney, and then passes nearly transversely across the third lumbar vertebra; terminating in the jejunum on the left side of the second lumbar vertebra, where it is crossed by the superior mesenteric artery and vein. The first or oblique portion of its course, between two and three inches in length, is completely enclosed by the perito- neum : it is in relation, above with the liver and neck of the gall- bladder ; in front with the great omentum and abdominal parietes ; and behind with the right border of the lesser omentum and its vessels. The second or perpendicular portion is situated altogether behind the peritoneum; it is in relation by its anterior surface with the com- mencement of the arch of the colon; by its posterior surface with the concave margin of the right kidney, the inferior vena cava, and the ductus communis choledochus; by its right border with the ascending colon; and by its left border with the pancreas. The ductus com- munis choledochus and pancreatic duct open into the internal and j posterior side of the perpendicular portion, a little below its middle. The third or transverse portion of the duodenum lies between the diverging layers of the transverse meso-colon, with which and with ^ the stomach it is in relation in front; above, it is in contact with the : lower border of the pancreas, the superior mesenteric artery and vein ■ being interposed; and, behind, it rests upon the inferior vena cava and aorta.