THE SPLEEN. 595 ill relation with the oblique portion of the duodenum, the lobus Spi- gelii, and coeliac axis. And the lower border is separated from the tnmsverse portion of the duodenum by the superior mesenteric artery and vein. Upon the posterior part of the head of the pancreas is a lobular fold of the gland which completes the canal of the superior mesenteric vessels, and is called the lesser pancreas. In structure, the pancreas is composed of reddish-yellow polyhedral lobules; these consist of smaller lobules, and the latter are made up of the arborescent ramifications of minute ducts, terminating in caecal pouches. The pancreatic duct commences at the papilla on the inner and pos- terior surface of the perpendicular portion of the duodenum by a small dilatation which is common to it and the ductus communis choledo- chus, and, passing obliquely between the mucous and muscular coats, runs from right to left through the middle of the gland, lying nearer its anterior than its posterior smface. At about the commencement of the apicial third of its course it divides into two parallel terminal branches. The duct gives oft’ numerous small branches, which are distributed through the lobules, and constitute, with the latter, the substance of the gland. The duct which receives the secretion from the lesser pancreas is called the ductus pancreaticus minor ; it opens into the principal duct near the duodenum, and sometimes passes sepa- rately into that intestine. As a variety, two pancreatic ducts are occasionally met with. Vessels and Nerves.—The arteries of the pancreas are branches of the splenic, hepatic, and superior mesenteric ; the veins open into the splenic vein ; the lymphatics terminate in the lumbar glands. The nerves are filaments of the splenic plexus. THE SPLEEN. The spleen is an oblong flattened organ, of a dark bluish-red colour, situated in the left hypochondriac region. It is variable in size and weight, spongy and vascular in texture, and exceedingly friable. The external surface is convex, the internal slightly concave, indent- ed along the middle line, and pierced by several large and iiregular openings for the entrance and exit of vessels ; this is the Mlus lienis. The upper extremity is somewhat larger than the lower, and rounded; the inferior is flattened ; the posterior border is obtuse, the anterior is sharp, and marked by several notches. The spleen is in relation by its external or convex surface with the diaphragm, which separates it from the ninth, tenth, and eleventh ribs ; by its concave surface, with the great end of the stomach, the extremity of the pancreas, the gastro-splenic omentum and its vessels, the left kidney and supra- renal capsule, and the left crus of the diaphragm ; by its upper end with the diaphragm, and sometimes with the extremity of the left lobe of the liver; and, by its lower end, with the left extremity of the trans-