491 CARDIAC NERVES. canal, forming the vertebral plexus. This plexus sends filaments to all the branches given off by the artery, and communicates in the cranium with the filaments of the carotid plexus accompanying the branches of the internal carotid artery. The internal branch is the. inferior cardiac nerve, nervus cardiacus minor. Cardiac nerves.*—The superior cardiac nerve (ne?'vus superfici- alis cordis) arises from the lower part of the superior cervical ganglion; it descends the neck behind the common carotid artery and parallel with the trachea, crosses the inferior thyroid artery, and running by the side of the recurrent laijTigeal nerve for a short distance, passes behind the arteria innominata to the concavity of the arch of the aorta, where it joins the cardiac ganglion. In its course it receives branches firom the pneumogastric nerve, and sends filaments to the thyroid gland and trachea. The Muldle cardiac nerve {nervus cardiacus magnus) proceeds from /fthe middle cardiac ganglion, or, in its absence, from the cord of com- mimication between the superior and inferior ganglia. It is the largest of the three nerves, and lies nearly parallel with the recurrent laryn- geal. At the root of the neck it divides into several branches, which pass some before and some behind the subclavian artery; it communi- cates with the superior and inferior cardiac, and with the pneumogas- tric and recurrent nerves, and descends to the bifurcation of the trachea, to join the great cardiac plexus. The Inferior cardiac nerve {nervus cardiacus minor) arises from the inferior cervical ganglion, communicates freely with the recurrent larjm- geal and middle cardiac nerve, and descends to the front of the bifur- cation of the trachea, to join the great cardiac pleoeus. The Cardiac ganglion is a ganglionic enlargement of variable size, situated beneath the arch of the aorta, to the right side of the ligament of the ductus arteriosus. It receives the superior cardiac nerves of op- posite sides of the neck and a branch from the pneumogastric, and gives off numerous branches to the cardiac plexuses. The Great cardiac plexus is situated upon the bifurcation of the trachea, above the right pulmonary artery, and behind the arch of the aorta. It is formed by the convergence of the middle and inferior car- diac nerves, and by branches from the pneumogastric, descendens noni, and first thoracic ganglion. The Anterior cardiac plexus is situated in front of the ascending aorta, near its origin. It is formed by the communications of filaments that proceed from three different sources, namely, from the superior cardiac nerves, crossing the arch of the aorta; from the cardiac ganglion, beneath the arch; and from the great cardiac plexus, passing between the ascending aorta and the right auricle. The anterior cardiac plexus • There is no constancy with regard to the origin and course of these nerves; : therefore the student must not be disappointed in finding the description in . discord with his dissection.