INTERNAL PUDIC ARTERY. 344 prostate gland. The branches externally to the pelvis, are four in number, namely, coccygeal, inferior gluteal, comes nervi ischiatici, and muscular branches. The Coccygeal branch pierces the great sacro-ischiatic ligament, and is distributed to the coccygeus and levator ani muscles, and to the integument around the anus and coccyx. The Inferior gluteal branches supply the gluteus maximus muscle. The Comes nervi ischiatici is a small but regular branch, which ac- companies the great ischiatic nerve to the lower part of the thigh. The Muscular branches supply the muscles of the posterior part of the hip and thigh, and inosculate with the internal and external cir- cumflex arteries, with the obturator, and mth the superior perforating artery. The Internal pudic artery, the other terminal branch of the anterior trunk of the internal iliac, descends in front of the ischiatic artery to the lower border of the great ischiatic foramen. It emerges from the pelvis through the great sacro-ischiatic foramen below the pyriformis muscle, crosses the spine of the ischium, and re-enters the pelvis through the lesser sacro-ischiatic foramen ; it then crosses the internal obturator muscle to the ramus of the ischium, being situated at about an inch from the margin of the tuberosity, and bound down by the obturator fascia ; it next ascends the ramus of the ischium, enters between the two layers of the deep perineal fascia lying along the border of the ramus of the os pubis, and at the symphysis pierces : the anterior layer of the deep perineal fascia, and, very much diminish- j ed in size, reaches the dorsum of the penis along which it runs, sup- : plying that organ under the name of dorsalis penis. j Branches.—The branches of the internal pudic artery within the ) pelvis are several small ramuscules to the base of the bladder, the vesiculsB seminales, and the prostate gland; and haemorrhoidal branches which supply the middle of the rectum, and frequently take the place of the middle haemorrhoidal branch of the internal iliac. The branches given off externally to the pelvis, are the External haemorrhoidal, Superficialis perinei, TransversaKs perinei, Arteria bulbosi, Arteria corporis cavernosi, Arteria dorsalis penis. The External hcemorrhoidal arteries are three or four small branches, given off by the internal pudic while behind the tuberosity of the ischium. They are distributed to the anus, and to the muscles, the fascia, and the integument of the anal region of the perineum. The Superficial penneal artery is given off near the attadiment of the crus penis ; it pierces the connecting layer of the superficial and