FACIAL ARTERY. 304 tongue. It is situated between the mylo-hyoideus and genio-liyo-glos- • sus, generally accompanies Wharton’s duct for a part of its course, and sends a branch to the frajnum linguiE. It is the latter branch which affords the considerable luemorrhage which sometimes follows the operation of snipping the frmnum in children. 3. Facial artery.—The Facial artery arises a little above the great cornu of the os hyoides, and descends obliquely to the submax- illary gland, in which it lies embedded. It then curves around the body of the lower jaw, close to the anterior inferior angle of the mas- seter muscle, ascends to the angle of the mouth, and thence to the angle of the eye, where it is named the angular artery. The facial artery is tortuous in its course over- the buccinator muscle, to accom- modate itself to the movements of the jaws. Relations.—Below the jaw it passes beneath the digastricus and stylo-hyoid muscles; on the body of the lower jaw it is covered by the platysma myoides, and at the angle of the mouth by the depressor anguli oris and zygomatic muscles. It rests upon the submaxillarj' gland, the lower jaw, buccinator, orbicularis oris, levator anguli oris, levator labii superioris proprius, and levator labii superioris alseque nasi. Its branches are divided into those which are given off below the jaw and those on the face : they may be thus arranged ;— Beloio the Jaw.—Inferior palatine. Submaxillary, Submental, Pterj'^goid. On the Face.—Masseteric, Inferior labial. Inferior coronarj', Superior coronary. Lateralis nasi. The Inferior palatine branch ascends between the stylo-glossus and stylo-pharyngeus muscles, to be distributed to the tonsil and soft pa- late, and anastomoses with the posterior palatine branch of the internal maxillary artery. The Submaxillary are four or five branches which supply the sub- maxillary gland. The Submental branch runs forwards upon the mylo-hyoid muscle, under cover of the body of the lower jaw, and anastomoses with branches of the sublingual and inferior dental artery. The Pterygoid branch is distributed to the internal pterygoid muscle. The Masseteric branches are distributed to the masseter and bucci- nator muscles.