233 anterior humeral region. border is thin and tendinous above, where it is connected with the aponeurotic covering of the infra-spinatus muscle, and thick below. Actions.—The deltoid is the elevator muscle of the arm in a direct line, and, by means of its extensive origin, it can carry the arm forwards or backwards so as to range with the hand a considerable segment of a large circle. The arm, raised by the deltoid, is a good illustration of a lever of the third power, so common in the animal machine, by pig, gg.* which velocity is gained at the ex- pense of power. In this lever, the weight (hand) is at one extremity, the fulcrum (the glenoid cavitj') at the opposite end, and the power (the insertion of the muscle) be- tween the two, but nearer the ful- crum than the weight. Anterior Humeral Region. Coraco-brachialis, Biceps, Brachialis anticus. Dissection. — These muscles are exposed, on the removal of the integument and fascia from the an- terior half of the upper arm, and the clearing away of the areolar tissue. The Coraco-brachialis,aname composed of its points of origin and insertion, arises from the coracoid process in common with the short head of the biceps ; and is inserted into a rough line on the inner side of the middle of the humerus. Relations.—By its anterior sur- face with the deltoid, and pectoralis : major. By its posterior surface ■ with the shoulder-joint, the humerus, subscapularis, teres major, latis- ■ simus dorsi, short head of the triceps, and anterior circumflex vessels. * The muscles of the anterior aspect of the upper arm. 1. The coracoid pro- (cess of the scapula. 2. The coraco-clavicular ligament (trapezoid), passing . upwards to the scapular end of the clavicle. 3. The coraco-acromial ligament, tpassing outwards to the acromion. 4. The subscapularis muscle. 5. The teres rmajor; the triangular space above this muscle is that through which the dorsalis • scapulie vessels pass. 6. The coraco-brachialis. 7. The biceps. 8. The upper end of the radius. 9. The brachialis anticus ; a portion of the muscle is seen on the outer side of the tendon of the biceps. 10. The internal head of the •triceps.