•22 OCCIPITAL BONE, curved line. In the middle of the ridge is a projection, called the ex- ‘ i ternal occipital protuberance; and descending from it a small vertical ' s ridge, the spine. Above and below the superior curved line the sur- t face is rough, for the attachment of muscles. About three-quarters of i an inch below this line is another transverse ridge, the inferior curved t line, and beneath the latter the foramen magnum. On each side of i the foramen magnum, nearer to its anterior than its posterior segment, 1 and encroaching somewhat upon the opening, is an oblong articular surface, the condyle, for articulation with the atlas. The condjdes approach towards each other anteiiorly, and their articular surfaces look downwards and outwards. Directly behind each condyle is an irregular fossa, and a small opening, the posterior condyloid foramen, for the transmission of a vein to the lateral sinus. In front of the condyle is the anterior condyloid foratnen, for the hypoglossal nerve ; and on the outer side of each condyle a projecting ridge, the transverse process, excavated in front by a notch which forms part of the jugular fora- men. In front of the foramen magnum is a thick square mass, tlie basilar process, and in the centre of the basilar process a small tubercle for the attachment of the superior and middle constrictor muscles of the pharynx. Internal Surface. — Upon the .internal surface is a crucial ridge, which divides the bone into four fossae; the two superior or cerebral fossae lodging the posterior lobes of the cerebrum; and the two in- ferior or cerebellar, the lateral lobes of the cerebellum. The superior arm of the crucial ridge is grooved for the superior longitudinal sinus, and gives attachment to the falx cerebri; the inferior arm is sharp and prominent for the attachment of the falx cerebelli, and slightly grooved for the two occipital sinuses. The transverse ridge gives attachment to the tentorium cerebelli, and is deeply grooved for the ; lateral sinuses. At the point of meeting of the four arms is a pro- , jection, the internal occipital protuberance, which corresponds with the i similar process situated upon the external surface of the bone. The i convergence of the four grooves forms a slightly depressed fossa, upon 1 which rests the torcular Herophili. In the centre of the basilar por- ! tion of the bone is the foramen magnum, oblong in form, and larger behind than before, transmitting the spinal cord, spinal accessory nerves, and vertebral arteries. Upon the lateral margins of the fora- men magnjim are two rough eminences, which give attachment to the odontoid ligaments, and immediately above these the openings of the anterior condyloid foramina. In front of the foramen magnum is the basilar process, grooved on its surface for supporting the medulla oblongata, and along each lateral border for the inferior petrosal si- nuses. On each side of the foramen magnum is a groove, for the termination of the lateral sinus; a smooth surface, which forms part of the jugular fossa; and a projecting process, which divides the two, and is called the jugular eminence. Into the jugular fossa will be seen opening the posterior condyloid foramen. The superior borders are very much serrated, and assist in forming