112 STRUCTURE OF CARTILAGE. in another a layer which extends completely round the joint, and is then called a capsular ligament. All the ligaments of joints are com- posed of that variety of fibrous tissue termed white fibrous tissue, but in some situations ligaments are found which consist of yellow fibrous tissue, for example, the ligamenta subflava of the arches of the verte- bral column. Adipose tissue exists in variable quantity in relation with joints, where it performs, among other offices, that of a valve or spring, which occupies any vacant space that may be formed during the movements of the joint, and effectually prevents the occurrence of a vacuum in those cavities. This purpose of adipose tissue is exem- plified in the cushion of fat at the bottom of the acetabulum and in the similar cushion behind the ligamentum patellae. Synovial mem- brane constitutes the beautiful smooth and polished lining of a joint, and contains the fluid termed synovia by means of which the adapted surfaces are enabled to move upon each other with perfect ease and freedom. Cartilage.—In the structure of joints, cartilage serves the double purpose of a connecting and separating medium. In the former capa- city possessing great strength ; and in the latter, smoothness and elas- ticity. In reference to its intimate structure it admits of classification into three kinds, true cartilage; reticular cartilage, and fibrous car- tilage. True Cartilage is composed of a semi-transparent homogeneous sub- stance (hyaline or vitreous substance) containing a number of minute cells (cartilage corpuscles) dispersed at short intervals through its structure. The cells are oval, oblong, or polyhedral in shape, and more or less flattened ; their membranous envelope is blended with the intercellular substance, and they contain in their interior secondary cells, nuclei, nucleoli, oil globules, and more or less of granular matter. * A portion of articular (true) cartilage from the head of the fibula. The section is made vertically to the surface, and magnified 155 times. It exhibits the appearance and arrangement of the cells near to the bone. The irregular line to the left is the boundary of the bone.