403 NERVE GRANULES. In the grey substance of the brain the nerve-cells may be seen in various stages of progressive development; thus, near the peripherj-, they are minute, spherical or oval, nucleated cells dispersed through a matrix of granular substance ; more deeply, the granular substance is collected around the cells, and forms an exterior coat ; while, at a greater depth, the cells have attained the size and the laminated sheaths of the fully formed nerve-cells. Nerve-cells offer many pecu- liarities in respect of nimiber and arrangement in different parts of the nervous system. From the periphery of the nerve-cells one or more delicate thread- like processes, between loooo ™ diameter, are given off. These are the origins of the grey nerve-fibres. 4. Nerve granules present the three forms of, minute homoge- neous particles, aggregated particles, and nucleated corpuscles, varying in size between TTcnr diameter. They serve as the bond of connexion between the fibres and cells of the brain and spinal cord, particidarly in the grey substance; and enter also into the composition of the various ganglia. Like nerve-cells, nerve-granules contain and have intermingled with them a variable number of pig- ment-granules. In the construction of a nerve the nerve-fibres are collected into small fasciculi, each fasciculus being invested by a distinct neurilem- ma. These fasciculi, again, are collected into bundles, forming larger ■rasciculi, which have also a separate neurilemma; and a bundle of the arger fasciculi, enclosed in a sheath or neurilemma of white fibrous tissue, constitutes a nerve. The neurilemma of the smaller fasciculi s smooth and semitransparent, and remarkable for its satiny polish,— : in appearance which is due to the longitudinal arrangement of the un- lulating fasciculi of fibrous tissue of which it is composed. Another .. haracter which the smaller nervous fasciculi possess, is that of being - rossed by oblique or transverse lines, which are produced, in all pro- .. ability, by the wrinkling of the neurilemma. In the fasciculi of grey fibres the tendency to wrinkle exists in the Kingitudinal direction, and the neurilemma is composed of an inner 1 lyer of circular filaments as well as an outer layer of the longitudinal '-.laments of fibrous tissue. The nerve-fibres have no inosculations, but pursue an uninterrupted )urse from their central to their peripheral termination. In some in- tances they return after a short curve to the cerebro-spinal centre, as, )r example, in the posterior part of the optic commissure, in the two rots of each spinal nerve, and in the loop formed between the descen- ens noni and the upper cervical nerves. In these cases, the fibres )rm a simple arch, both extremities of the arch maintaining a com- umication with the cerebro-spinal axis. In another instance, the irection of the curve is reversed, the centre of the arch being in the iterior part of the optic commissure, and the extremities in the ; !tina. The communications which take place between nerves are termed