EXTERNAL ORGANS OP GENERATION. 623 occupied by the ovum. The interior of the cavity is lined by n puckered membrane, the remains of the ovisac. In recent corpora lutea, the opening by whicli the ovum escaped from the ovisac through the capsule of the ovary is distinctly visible; when closed, a small cicatrix may be seen on the surface of the ovary in the situation of the opening. A similar appearance to the preceding, but of smaller size, and rvithout a central cavity, is sometimes met with in the ovaries of the virgin; this is a false corpus luteum. Vessels and Nerves.—The Arteries of the ovaries are the spermatic ; their Tierves are derived from the spermatic plexus. The Round ligaments are two muscular and fibrous cords situ- ated between the layers of the broad ligaments, and extending from the upper angles of the uterus, and along the spermatic canals to the labia majoni, in which they are lost. They are accompanied by a small ar-terj', by several filaments of the spermatic plexus of nerves, and by a plexus of veins. The latter occasionally become varicose, and form a small tumour at the external abdominal ring, which has been mistaken for inguinal hernia. The round ligaments serve to re- tain the uterus in its proper position in the pelvis, and, during utero- gestation, to draw the anterior surface of the organ against the abdo- minal parietes. EXTERNAL ORGANS OF GENERATION. The female organs of generation are divisible into the internal and external: the internal are contained within the pelvis, and have been already described; they are the vagina, uterus, ovaries, and Fallopian tubes. The external organs are the mens Veneris, labia majora, labia minora, clitoris, meatus urinarius, and the opening of the vagina. The Mons Veneris is the eminence of integument, situated upon the front of the ossa pubis. Its areolar tissue is loaded with adipose sub- stance, and the surface covered with hairs. The Labia majora are two large longitudinal folds of integument, consisting of fat and loose areolar tissue. They enclose an elliptical fissure, the common urino-sexual opening or vulva. The vulva re- ceives the inferior opening of the urethra and vagina, and is bounded anteriorly by the commissura superior, and posteriorly by the commis- sura inferior. Stretching across the posterior commissure is a small transverse fold, the frcenulum laI)iorum or fourchette, which is ruptured during parturition ; and immediately ^vithin this fold is a small cavity, the fossa Tiavicidaris. The length of the perineum is measured from the posterior commissure to the margin of the anus, and is usually not more than an inch. The external surface of the labia is covered with hairs ; the inner surface is smooth, and lined by mucous mem- brane, which contains a number of sebiparous follicles, and is covered by a thin cuticular epithelium. The use of the labia majora is to favour the extension of the vulva during parturition ; for, in the