VERTEBRAL COLUMN. 16 their most rudimentary form in the axis, gradually increase in length to the first dorsal vertebra. In the dorsal region they project obliquely backwards, and diminish suddenly in length in the eleventh and twelfth vertebrm where they are very small. In the lumbar region they increase to the middle transverse process, and again subside in length to the last. The transverse processes consist essentially of two parts, the ante- rior of which in the dorsal region is the rib, while the posterior retains the name of the transverse process. In the cervical region these two elements are quite apparent, both by their different points of at- tachment to the vertebra, and by the vertebral foramen which divudes them at their base. In the lumbar region the so-called transverse processes are in reality lumbar ribs, while the transverse processes will be found behind them in a rudimentarj' state, developed, like the true transverse processes in the cervical region, from the superior ar- ticular processes. When the anterior and posterior transverse pro- cesses are examined in relation with each other, they will be observed to converge; if they were prolonged they would unite as in the cervical region and enclose a foramen, or they would rest in con- tact as in the dorsal region, or become consolidated as in the forma- tion of the sacrum. Moreover, the posterior transverse processes are directed upwards, and if they were prolonged, they would come into contact with a small tubercle which is found at the base of the poste- rior transverse process (in strongly marked vertebrae) in the vertebra above. This junction would form a posterior intervertebral foramen, as actually occurs in the sacrum. In brief, the lumbar vertebrae ex- hibit those transitional changes which are calculated, by an easy gra- dation, to convert separate vertebrae into a solid bone. The transverse processes of the eleventh and twelfth dorsal vertebrae are very inter- esting in a transcendental point of view, as exhibiting a tendency which exists obscurely in all the rest, namely, to trifurcate. Now, supposing these three branches to be lengthened in order to fulfil their purposes, the anterior would constitute the articulation or union with a rib, while the superior and inferior would join similar branches in the vertebra above and below, and so form the posterior intervertebral foramen. The intercertahral foramina formed by the juxtaposition of the notches are smallest in the cervical region, [and gradually increase to the last luiTibar. On either side of the spinous processes, and extend- ing the whole length of the column, is the vertebral groove^ which is shallow and broad in the cervical, and deeper and narrower in the dorsal and lumbar regions. It lodges the principal muscles of the back. Viewed from the side, the vertebral column presents several curves, the principal of which is situated in the dorsal region, the concavit_v looking forwards. In the cervical and lumbar regions the column is convex in front; and in the pelvis an anterior concave curve is formed by the sacrum and coccyx. Besides the antero-posterior curves, a