636 TESTES. and undeveloped. It is, indeed, an abdominal viscus, and is connected superiorly with a fibrous cord, called the urachus, of which it appears to be an expansion. The Urachus is continued upwards to the umbilicus, and becomes connected with the umbilical cord. In animals it is a pervious duct, and is continuous with one of the membranes of the embryo, the allantois. It has been found pervious in the human fetus, and the urine has been passed through the umbilicus. Calculous concretions have also been found in its course. The Uterus, in the early periods of embryonic existence, appears bifid, from the large size of the Fallopian tubes, and the small develop- ment of the body of the organ. At the end of the fourth month, the body assumes a larger bulk, and the bifid appearance is lost. The cervix uteri in the fetus is larger than the body of the organ. The Ovaries are situated, like the testicles, in the lumbar region, near the kidneys, and descend from thence, gradually, into the pel- vis. TESTES. The Testicles in the embryo are situated in the lumbar regions, im- mediately in front of and somewhat below the kidneys. They have, connected with them inferiorly, a peculiar structure, which assists in their descent, and is called the gubemaculum testis. The Gubemaculum is a soft and conical cord composed of areolar tissue containing in its areolae a gelatiniform fluid. In the abdomen it lies in front of the psoas muscle, and passes along the spermatic canal, which it serves to distend for the passage of the testis. It is attached by its superior and larger extremity to the lower end of the testis and epididymis, and by the inferior extremity to the bottom of the scrotum. The gubemaculum is surrounded by a thin layer of muscular fibres, the cremaster, which pass upwards upon this body to be attached to the testis. Inferiorly, the muscular fibres divide into three processes, which, according to Mr. Curling,* are thus attached: “ The external and broadest is connected to Poupart’s ligament in the inguinal canal; the middle forms a lengthened band, which escapes at the external abdominal ring, and descends to the bottom of the scrotum, Avhere it joins the dartos; the internal passes in the direction inwards, and has a firm attachment to the os pubis and sheath of the rectus muscle. Besides these a number of muscular fibres are reflected from the internal oblique on the fi-ont of the gubemaculum.” The Descent of the testicle is gradual and progressive. Between the fifth and sixth months it has reached the lower part of the psoas muscle, and during the seventh it makes its way through the sper- matic canal, and descends into the scrotum. ♦ See an excellent paper “ On the Structure of the Gubemaculum,” &c., by Mr. Curling, Lecturer on Morbid Anatomy in the London Hospital, in the Lancet, vol. ii. 1840-41, p. 70.