272 MUSCLES OF THE SOLE OF THE FOOT, Fig. 112.* Tlie Akductor minimi digiti lies along the outer border of the ’ sole of the foot. It arises from the outer tuberosity of tlie os calcis, and from the plantar fascia, as far forward as the base of tlie fifth metatarsal bone, and is inserted into the base of the first phalanx of the little toe. Relations.—By its superficial surface with the external portion of the plantar fascia. By its deep surface with the musculus accessorius, flexor brevis minimi digiti, with the tarsal bones, and with the meta- tarsal bone of the little toe. By its inner side with the flexor brevis digitorum, from which it is separated by the vertical septu of the plantar fascia. The Flexor brevi.s digitorum (perforatus) is placed between the two preceding muscles. It arises from the under surface of the os calcis, from the plantar fascia and intermuscular septa, and is inserted by four tendons into the base of the second phalanx of the four lesser toes. Each tendon divides, pre- viously to its insertion, to give passage to the tendon of the long flexor; hence its cognomen •perforatus. Relations.—By its superficial surface with the plantar fascia. By its deep surface with a thin layer of fascia which separates it from the musculus acces- sorius, tendons of the flexor longus di- gitorum and flexor longus poUicis, and plantar vessels and neiwes. By its borders with the vertical septa of the plantar fascia, which separate the muscle, on the one side from the ab- ductor pollicis, and on the other from the abductor minimi digiti. Second Layer. Musculus accessorius, Lumbricales. Dissection. — The three preceding muscles must be divided from their origin, and anteriorly through their tendons, and removed, in order to bring into view the second layer. * The third and a part of the second layer of muscles of the sole of the foot. 1. The divided edge of the plantar fascia. 2. The musculus accessorius. 3. The tendon of the flexor longus digitorum. 4. The tendon of the flexor longus pollicis. 5. The flexor brevis pollicis. 6. The adductor pollicis. 7. The flexor brevis minimi digiti. 8. The transversus pedis. 9. Interossei muscles, plantar and dorsal. A convex ridge formed by the tendon of the peroneus lon- gus muscle in its oblique course across the foot.