472 LUMBAR NERVES. yides into an internal and an external branch. The internal branch is distributed to the integument of the inner side of the arm. The external branch communicates with the nerve of Wrisberg, and divides into filaments which supply the integument of the inner and posterior aspect of the arm as far as the elbow. This nerve sometimes takes the place of the nerve of Wrisberg. The Second intercosto-humeral nerve is much smaller than the preceding ; it emerges from the external intercostal muscle of the third intercostal space between the serrations of the serratus magnus muscle, and divides into filaments which are distributed to the integu- ment of the shoulder. One of these filaments may be traced inwards to the integument of the mamma. The two intercosto-humeral nerves not unfrequently communicate previously to their distribution. The cutaneous branches of the fourth and fifth intercostal nerves send anterior twigs to the integument of the mammary gland and pos- terior filaments to the scapular region of the back. The cutaneous branches of the remaining intercostal nerves reach the surface between the serrations of the serratus magnus muscle above, and the external oblique below, and each nerve divides into an anterior and a posterior branch ; the former being distributed to the integument of the antero- lateral, and the latter to that of the lateral part of the trunk. The cutaneous branch of the last dorsal nerve is remarkable for its large size (n. clunium superior anticus) ; it pierces the internal and external oblique muscles, crosses the anterior part of the crest of the ilium, and is distributed to the integmnent of the gluteal region as low down as the trochanter major. LUMBAR nerves. There are five pairs of lumbar nerves, of which the first makes its appearance between the first and second lumbar vertebras, and the last between the fifth lumbar and the base of the sacrum. The anterior branches increase in size from above downwards. They communicate at their origin with the lumbar ganglia of the sympathetic, and pass obliquely outwards behind the psoas magnus, or between its fasciculi, sending twigs to that muscle and to the quadratuslumborum. In this situation each nerve divides into two branches, a superior branch which ascends to form a loop of communication wdth the nerve above ; and an inferior branch which descends to join in like manner the nerve below. The communications and anastomoses which are thus established constitute the lumbar plexus. The posterior branches diminish in size from above downwards; they pass backwards between the transverse processes of the corresponding vertebrae, and each nerve divides into an internal and an external branch. The internal branch, the smaller of the two, passes inwards to be distributed to the multifidus spinae and interspinales, and be-