36 SPHENOID BONE. lesser wings, and transmits the third, fourth, the three branches of the ' ophthalmic division of the fifth and the sixth nerves, and the ophthal- ! mic vein. Behind and beneath this fissure is the foramen rotundum ' for the superior maxillary nerve ; and still farther back, in the base of i the spinous process, the foramen ovale for the inferior maxUlarj' nerve, ; Via. 20.* a arteria meningea parva, and nervus petrosus superficialis minor. Be- hind the foramen ovale, near the apex of the spinous process, is the foramen spinosum for the arteria meningea medea. Upon the antero-inferior surface of the sphenoid is a long flattened spine or crest, the superior part of which, crista sphenoidcdis, articulates with the central lamella of the ethmoid, while the inferior part longer and sharper, the rostrum sphenoidale, is intended to be inserted into the sheath formed by the upper border of the vomer. On either side * The superior or cerebral surface of the sphenoid bone. 1. The processus olivaris. 2. The ethmoidal spine. 3. The lesser wing of the left side. 4. The cerebral surface of the greater wing of the same side 5. The spinous pro- cess. 6. The extremity of the pterygoid process of the same side, projecting downwards from the under surface of the body of the bone. 7. The foramen opticum. 8. The anterior clinoid process. 9. The groove by the side of the sella turcica; for lodging the internal carotid artery, cavernous plexus, cavernous sinus, and orbital nerves. 10. The sella turcica; the two tubercles in front of the figure are the middle clinoid processes. 11. The posterior boundaiy of the sella turcica; its projecting angles are the posterior clinoid processes. 12. The basilar portion of the bone. 13. Part of the sphenoidal fissure. 14. The foramen rotundum. 15. The foramen ovale. 16. The foramen spinosum. 17. The angular interval which receives the apex of the petrous portion of the temporal bone. The posterior extremity of the Vidiau canal terminates at this angle. 18. The spine of the spinous process ; it affords attachment to the in- temal lateral ligament of the lower jaw. 19. The border of the gre.ater wing and spinous process, which articulates with the anterior part of the squamous portion of the temporal bone. 20. The internal border of the spinous process, which assists in the formation of the foramen lacerum basis cranii. 21. That portion of the greater ala which articulates with the anterior inferior angle of the parietal bone. 22. The portion of the greater ala which articulates with the orbital process of the frontal bone.