DEVELOPMENT OF VERTEBR-®. 17 slight lateral curve exists in the dorsal region, having its convexity towards the right side. Development.—The vertebrae are developed hy three primaiy and five secondary centres or epiphyses. The primary centres are, one for each lamella, and one for the body; the epiphyses, one for the apex of the spinous process, one for that of each transverse process, and one for the upper and under surface of the body. Exceptions to this mode of development are met with in the atlas, axis, vertebra pro- minens, and lumbar vertebras. The atlas has four centres: one for each lateral mass, one (sometimes two) for the anterior arch, and one for the centre of the posterior arch. The axis has five: one (some- times twp) for the body, two for the odontoid process, appearing side by side in its base, and one for each lamella. The vertebra proininens has two additional centres for the anterior or costal segments of the transverse processes, and the lumbar vertd)r(e two for the posterior segments of the transverse processes. The primary centres of the vertebrae make their appearance during the seventh or eighth week of embryonic existence, the lamella being somewhat in advance of that for the body. From the former are pro- duced the spinous, transverse, and articular processes, and the sides of the body; they unite, to complete the arch, one year after birth, and with the body- during the fifth year. The epiphyses, for the extremi- ties of the spinous and transverse processes, make their appearance at fifteen or sixteen, and become united between twenty and twenty- five. The epiphyses of the body are somewhat later in appearance, and are consolidated between the periods of twenty-five and thirty years of age. The ossific centres for the lateral masses of the atlas, appear at the same time with those of the other vertebrae; they unite posteriorly at the end of the second year, by the intervention of tlie centre for the posterior arch. The one or two centres of the anterior arch appear during the first year, and become consolidated with the lateral pieces during the fifth or sixth year. The aocis develops its lateral pieces at the same time with the rest of the vertebrae; they join posteriorly soon after birth, and with the body during the fourth or fifth year. The centres for the body and odontoid process appear during the sixth month, and are consolidated during the third year. The body of the axis is more largely developed at birth than that of the other ver- tebrae. The costal segments of the vertebra prominens appear during the second month, and become united to the body at the fifth or sixth year. These processes sometimes remain permanently separate, and constitute a cervical rib. The transverse process of the first lumltar vertebra has sometimes a distinct centre, which may remain per- manently separate, in that case forming a lumbar rib. The ossification of the arches of the vertebrae commences from above, and proceeds gradually downwards; hence arrest of develop- ment gives rise to spina bifida, generally in the loins. Ossification of the bodies, on the contrary, commences from the centre, and proceeds c