80 ULNA. Ulna.—The ulna is a long bone, divisible into a shaft and two extremities. The upper extremity is large, and forms principally the articulation of the elbow; while the lower extremity is small, and is excluded from the wrist-joint by an inter-articular fibro-cartilage. The superior extremity presents a semilunar concavity of large size, the greater sigmoid notch, for articulation with the humerus; and upon the outer side a lesser sigmoid notch, which articulates with the head of the radius. Bounding the greater sigmoid notch posteriorly is the olecranon process; and, overhanging it in front, a pointed eminence with a rough triangular base, the coronoid process. Behind the lesser sigmoid notch, and extending downwards on the side of the olecranon, is a triangular uneven surface, for the anconeus muscle; and upon the posterior surface of the olecranon a smooth triangular surface, which is subcutaneous. The shaft is prismoid in form, and presents three surfaces, anterior, posterior, and internal; and three borders. The anterior surface is occupied by the flexor profundus digitorum for the upper three-fourths of its extent; and below by a depression, for the pronator quadratus muscle. A little above its middle is the nutritious foramen, which is directed upwards. Upon the posterior surface at the upper part of the bone is the triangular uneven depression for the anconeus muscle, bounded interiorly by an oblique ridge which runs downwards from the posterior extremity of the lesser sigmoid notch. Below the ridge the surface is marked into several grooves, for the attachment of the extensor ossis metacarpi, extensor secundi intemodii, and extensor in- dicis muscle. The internal surface is covered in for the greater part of its extent by the flexor profundus digitorum. The anterior border is rounded, and gives origin by its lower fourth to the pronator quad- ratus ; the posterior is more prominent, and afibrds attachment to the flexor carpi ulnaris and extensor carpi ulnaris. At its upper extre- mity it expands into the triangular subcutaneous surface of the olecra- non. The eoderruxl or radial border is sharp and prominent, for the attachment of the interosseous membrane. The lower extremity terminates in a small rounded head, capitidum ulncB, from the side of which projects the styloid process. The latter presents a deep notch at its base for the attachment of the apex of the triangular interarticular cartilage, and by its point gives attachment to the internal lateral ligament. Upon the posterior surface of the head is a groove, for the tendon of the extensor carpi ulnaris; and upon the side opposite the styloid process a smooth surface, for articulation with the side of the radius. Development.—By three centres ; one for the shaft, one for the in- ferior extremity, and one for the olecranon. Ossification commences in the ulna shortly after the humerus and radius ; the two ends of the bone are cartilaginous at birth. The centre for the lower end appears at about the fifth, and that for the olecranon about the seventh year. The bone is completed at about the twentieth year. Articulations.—With two bones; the humerus and radius; it is se-