467 MEDIAN NERVE. BRANCHES. nerve, to the middle of the posterior aspect of the upper arm, where it pierces the fascia and is distributed to the integument of the elbow, communicating with filaments of the posterior branch of the internal cutaneous and with the spiral cutaneous. In its course it gives off two or three cutaneous filaments to the integument of the inner and anterior aspect of the upper arm. The Median nerve has received its name from taking a course along the middle of the fore-arm to the palm of the hand; it is, there- fore, intermediate in position between the radial and ulnar nerves. It commences by two heads, which embrace the axillary artery ; lies at first to the outer side of the brachial artery, which it crosses at its mid- dle ; and descends on its inner side to the bend of the elbow. It then passes between the two h^ads of the pronator radii teres and flexor sublimis digitorum, and runs down the fore-arm, between the flexor sublimis and profundus, and beneath the annular Kgament, to the palm of the hand. The Branches of the median nerve are,— Muscular, Superficial palmar. Anterior interosseous, Digital. The Muscular branches are given off by the nerve at the bend of the elbow; they are distributed to all the muscles of the anterior aspect of the fore-arm, with the exception of the flexor carpi ulnaris, and to the periosteum. The branch to the pronator radii teres sends off reflected filaments to the elbow-joint. The Anterior interosseous is a large branch accompanying the ante- rior interosseous arterj’’, and supplying the deep layer of muscles in the fore-arm. It passes beneath the pronator quadratus muscle, and pierces the interosseous membrane near the wrist. On reaching the posterior aspect of the wrist it joins a large and remarkable ganglion, which gives off a number of branches for the supply of the joint. The Su-perficial 'palmar branch arises from the median nerve at about the lower fourth of the fore-arm ; it crosses the annular ligament, and is distributed to the integument of the ball of the thumb and the palm of the hand. The median nerve at its termination in the palm of the hand is spread out and flattened, and divides into six branches, one muscular and divides into six tcrminarbranches. Tlie branch which crosses the annular ligament is the superficial palmar. 16. The ulnar nerve giving off several muscular branches to the triceps. 16. The point at which it passes between the two heads of the flexor carpi ulnaris. 17. Its dorsal branch. 18. The ter- mination of the nerve, dividing into a superficial and deep palmar branch. 19. The mnsculo-spiral nerve. 20. Muscular branches to the triceps. 21. Spu-al cutaneous nerve. 22. The posterior interosseous nerve piercing the supinator brevis muscle. 23. The radial nerve. The last two nerves are the terminal branches of the musculo-spiral. 24. The point at which the radial nerve pierces the deep fascia. 25. The circumflex nerve.