399 CHAPTEU VIII. ON THE NERVOUS SYSTEM. The nervous system consists of a central organ, the cerebro-spinal centre or axis, and of numerous rounded and flattened white cords, the nerves, which are connected hy one extremity tvith the cerebro- spinal centre, and by the other are distributed to all the textiles of tthe body. The sympathetic system is an exception to tliis description; : for in place of one it has many small centres which are called ganglia, sand which communicate very freely with the cerebro-spinal axis and with its nerves. The cerebro-spinal axis consists of two portions, the brain, an organ of large size, situated within the skull, and the spinal cord, a length- t-ened portion of the nervous centre continuous with the brain, and ^'Occupying the canal of the vertebral column. The most superficial examination of the brain and spinal cord shews tthem to be composed of fibres, or rather fasciculi, which in some situ- ations are ranged in a longitudinal direction, and in others are inter- Llaced at various angles by cross fibres. The fasciculi are connected and held together by a delicate areolar web, which forms the bond of •support to the entire organ. It is also observed that the cerebro- :;pinal axis presents two substances differing from each other in den- .iity and 'colour: a grey or cineritious or cortical substance, and a vhite or medullary substance. The grey substance forms a thin lamella 1 iver the entire surface of the convolutions of the cerebrum, and of Ihe laminae of the cerebellum : hence it has been named cortical ; but ihe grey substance is not confined to the surface of the brain, as this erm would imply; it is likewise situated in the centre of the spinal ord its entire length, and may be thence traced through the medulla ! blongata, crura cerebri, thalami optici, and corpora striata ; it enters iso into the composition of the locus perforatus, tuber cinereum, com- issura mollis, pineal gland, pituitary gland, and corpora rhomboidea. Two kinds of grey substance are described by Rolando as existing 1 the spinal cord ; the one {substantia cinerea spo?igiosa vasculosa) is le ordinary grey matter of the cord, and the other (substantia cinerea zlatinosa) forms part of the posterior cornua. The former resembles I structure the grey matter of the brain, while the latter is composed f' small bodies resembling the blood corpuscules of the frog. The fibres of the cerebro-spinal axis are arranged into two classes, rverging and converging. The diverging fibres proceed from the