261 POSTERIOR FEMORAL REGION. ternal saphenous vein crosses it lying superficially to the fascia lata, lly its outer ov deep s«;y«ce with the adductor longus, brevis, and magr- nus, and the internal lateral ligament of the knee-joint, from which it 1 is separated by a synovial bursa common to the tendons of the gracilis I and semi-tendinosus. j, Jctious.—Theiliacus, psoas, pectineus, and adductor longus muscles i bend the thigh upon the pelvis, and, at the same time, from the obli- ; quity of their insertion into the lesser trochanter and linea aspera, rotate the entire limb outwards; the pectineus and adductors adduct the thigh powerfully ; and from the manner of their insertion into the I . linea aspera, they assist in rotating the limb outwards. The gracilis }; is likewise an adductor of the thigh ; but contributes also to the flexion I of the leg, by its attachment to the inner tuberosity of the tibia. I Posterior Femoral Region. I Biceps, I Semi-tendinosus, Semi-membranosus. Dissection.—Remove the integument and fascia on the posterior i part of the thigh by two flaps, as on the anterior region, and turn aside the gluteus maximus from the upper part; the muscles may then be examined. The Biceps femoris (bis, double, xi(paXh, head) arises by two heads, one by a common tendon with the semi-tendinosus ; the other muscular and much shorter, from the lower two-thirds of the external border of the linea aspera. This muscle forms the outer hamstring, and is inserted by a strong tendon into the head of the fibula; a portion of the tendon is continued downwards into the fascia of the leg, and another is attached to the outer tuberosity of the tibia. Relations.—By its superficial or posterior surface with the gluteus maximus and fascia lata. By its deep or anterior surface with the ; - semi-membranosus, adductor magnus, vastus externus, the great sciatic I: nerve, popliteal arterj* and vein, and near its insertion with the exter- I nal head of the gastrocnemius, and plantaris. By its mner border with ; the semi-tendinosus, and in the popliteal space with the popliteal ar- ttery and vein. The Semi-tendinosus, remarkable for its long tendon, arises in c common with the long head of the biceps, from the tuberosity of the : ischium; the two muscles being closely united for several inches below ; their origin. It is inserted into the inner tuberosity of the tibia. Relations.—By its superficial surface with the glutens maximus, i fascia lata, and at its insertion with the synovial bursa which separates : its tendon from the expansion of the sartorius. By its deep surface with the semi-membranosus, adductor magnus, internal head of the gastrocnemius, and internal lateral ligament of the knee-joint, the sy- r no>-ial bursa common to it and the tendon of the gracilis being inter-