•2TA MUSCLES OF THE SOLE OF THE FOOT. The Musculus accessorius arises by two slips from either side of the under surface of the os calcis ; the inner slip being fleshy, the outer tendinous. The muscle is inserted into the outer side and upper surface of the tendon of the flexor longus digitorum. Relations.—By its superficial surface with the three muscles of the superficial layer, from which it is separated by their fascial sheaths, and with the external plantai" vessels and nerves. By its deep surface with the under part of the os calcis and the long calcaneo-cuboid ligament. The Lumbricales (lumbricus, an earthworm) are four little muscles arising from the tibial side of the tendons of the flexor longus digito- rum, and inserted into the expansion of the extensor tendons, and into the base of the first phalanx of the four lesser toes. Relations.—By their superficial surface with the tendons of the flexor brevis digitorum. By their deep surface with the third layer of muscles of the sole of the foot. They pass between the digital slips of the deep fascia to reach their insertion. Third Layer. Flexor brevis pollicis. Adductor pollicis. Flexor brevis minimi digiti, Transversus pedis. , Dissection.—The tendons of the long flexors and the muscles con- nected with them must be removed, to see clearly the attachments of the third layer. The Flexor brevis pollicis arises by a pointed tendinous pro- cess from the side of the cuboid, and from the external cuneiform bone; it is inserted by two heads into the base of the first phalanx of the great toe. Two sesamoid bones are developed in the tendons of inser- tion of these two heads, and the tendon of the flexor longus pollicis lies in the groove between them. Relations.—By its supeificial surface with the abductor pollicis, ten- don of the flexor longus pollicis, and plantar fascia. By its deep sur- face with the tarsal bones and their ligaments, the metatarsal bone of the great toe, and the insertion of the tendon of the peroneus longus. By its inner border with the abductor pollicis ; and by its outer border with the adductor pollicis ; with both of these muscles it is blended near its insertion. The Adductor pollicis arises from the cuboid bone, from the sheath of the tendon of the peroneus longus, and from the base of the third and fourth metatarsal bones. It is inserted into the base of the first phalanx of the great toe. Rdations.—By its superficial surface with the tendons of the flexor longus and flexor brevis digitorum, the musculus accessorius, and lum- bricales. By its deep surface with the tarsal bones and ligaments, - T