30G TRANSVERSALIS FACIEI TEMPORAL ARTERY. ascends beneath the lower border of the parotid gland, and behind the concha, to be distributed by two branches to the external ear and side of the head, anastomosing with the occipital and temporal arteries; some of its branches pass tlirough fissures in the fibro-cartilage, to be distributed to the anterior surface of the pinna. The anterior auricular arteries are branches of the temporal. Branches.—The posterior auricular gives off but one named branch, the stylo-mastoid, which enters the stylo-mastoid foramen to be distri- buted to the aquaeductus Fallopii and tympanum, 7. The Ascending pharyngeal artery, the smallest of the branches of the external carotid, arises from that trunk near its bi- furcation, and ascends between the ■ internal carotid and the side of the pharynx to the base of the skull, where it divides into two branches; meningeal, which enters the foramen lacerum posterius, to be distributed to the dura mater ; and pharyngeal. It supplies the pharynx, tonsils, and Eustachian tube. 8. The Parotidean arteries are four or five large branches which are given off from the external carotid whilst that vessel is situated in the parotid gland. They are distributed to the structure of the gland, their terminal branches reaching the integument and the side of the face. 9. The Transversalis faciei arises from the external carotid, whilst that trunk is lodged within the parotid gland ; it crosses the masseter muscle, lying parallel with and a little above Stenon’s duct; and is distributed to the temporo-maxillary articulation, and to the muscles and integument of the side of the face, inosculating with the infra-orbital and facial artery. This arterj’^ is not unfrequently a branch of the temporal, 10. The Temporal artery is one of the two terminal branches of the external carotid. It ascends over the root of the zygoma; and, at about an inch and a half above the zygomatic arch, divides into an anterior and a posterior temporal branch. The anterior temporal is distributed over the front of the temple and arch of the skull, and anastomoses with the opposite anterior temporal, and with the supra- orbital and frontal artery. The posterior temporal curves upwards and backwards, and inosculates with its fellow of the opposite side, with the posterior auricular and occipital artery. The trunk of the temporal artery is covered in by the parotid gland and by the attrahens aurem muscle, and rests on the temporal fascia. Branches.—Orbitar, Anterior auricular. Middle temporal. The OrUtar artery is a small branch, not alwaj's present, which