G1 ORBITS. The orbits are two quadrilateral hollow cones, situated in the upper part of the face, and intended for the reception of the eye-balls, with t their muscles, vessels, and nerves, and the lachrymal glands. The cen- ,;tral axis of each orbit is directed outwards, so that the axis of the two, continued into the skull through the optic foramina, would intersect over the middle of the sella turcica. The superior boundary of the ■orbit is formed by the orbital plate of the frontal bone, and by part of t the lesser wing of the sphenoid ; the inferior, by p;u:t of the malar '■bone and by the orbital processes of the superior maxillary and palate bone; the internal, by the lachrymal bone, the os planum of the ! ethmoid, and part of the body of the sphenoid ; and the eocternal, by ' • the orbital process of the malar bone and the great ala of the sphenoid, i These may be expressed more clearly in a tabular form :— Frontal. Sphenoid (lesser wing). Outer wall. Malar. Sphenoid (greater wing . Malar. Superior Maxillary. Palate. Inner wall. Lachrymal. Ethmoid (os planum). Sphenoid (body). Orbit. There are nine openings communicating with the orbit: the optic, for the admission of the optic nerve and ophthalmic artery; the sphe- I noidal fissure, for the transmission of the third, fourth, the three oranches of the ophthalmic division of the fifth nerve, the sixth nerve, md the ophthalmic vein ; the spheno-maxillary fissure, for the passage )f the superior maxillary nerve and artery to the opening of entrance of the infra-orbital canal; temporo-malar foramina—two or three i'lmall openings in the orbital process of the malar bone, for the passage )f filaments of the orbital branch of the superior maxillary nerve ; an- > erior and posterior ethmoidal foramina in the suture between the os )blanum and frontal bone, the former transmitting the nasal nerve and L interior ethmoidal artery, the latter the posterior ethmoidal artery und vein ; the opening of the nasal duct ; and the supra-orbital notch :>r foramen, for the supra-orbital nerve and artery. NASAL FOSSAE. [The nasal fossrn are two irregular cavities, situated in the middle ftfif the face, and extending from before backwards. They are bounded »l"6oi-c by the nasal bones, ethmoid, and sphenoid ; below by the palate |«*r)roce8se8 of the superior maxillary and palate bones; externally by the