283 PERINEAL FASCL'E. margin of the great sacro-ischiatic ligament. Lying between these two layers of fascia is the levator ani muscle, which arises from their angle of separation. The levator ani is covered in inferiorly by a Fig. 114 * third layer of fascia, which is given off by the obturator fascia, and is continued downwards upon the inferior surface of the muscle to the ! extremity of the rectum, where it is lost. This layer may be named i from its position and inferior attachment the anal fascia. Perineal fasci^e.—In the perineum there are two fasciae of much importance, the superficial and deep perineal fascia. I The superficial perineal fascia is a thin aponeurotic la}’'er, which covers in the muscles of the genital portion of the perineum and the I root of the penis. It is firmly attached at each side to the ramus of the os pubis and ischium ; posteriorly it is reflected backwards beneath the transversi perinei muscles to become connected with the deep 1 perineal fascia; while anteriorly it is continuous with the dartos of the scrotum. • A transvers'e section of the pelvis, shewing the distribution of the pelvic fascia. 1. The bladder. 2. The veslcula seminalis of one side divided across. 3. The rectum. 4. The iliac fascia covering in the iliacus and psoas muscles (5); and forming a sheath for the external iliac vessels (6). 7. The anterior crural nerve excluded from the sheath. 8. The pelvic fascia. 9. Its ascending layer, forming the lateral ligament of the bladder of one side, and a sheath to the vesical plexus of veins. 10. The recto-vesical fascia of Tyrrell formed by the middle layer. 11. The inferior layer surrounding the rectum and meeting at the middle line with the fascia of the opposite side. 12. The levator ani muscle. 13. The obturator intemus muscle, covered in by the obturator fascia, which also forms a sheath for the internal pudic vessels and nerve (14). 15. The layer of fascia which invests the under surface of the levator ani muscle, the anal fascia