217 RECTUS. PYRAMIDALIS. melloe ;—anterior, wliich is attached to the bases of the transverse pro- cesses of the lumbar vertebrae; middle, to the apices of the transverse processes; and posterior, to the apices of the spinous processes. The anterior and middle lamellae enclose the quadratus lumborum muscle ; and the middle and posterior, the erector spinae. The union of the posterior lamella of the transversalis with the posterior aponeurosis of the internal oblique, serratus posticus inferior, and latissimus dorsi, constitutes the lumbar fascia. Relations.—By its external surface with the internal oblique, the in- ternal surfaces of the lower ribs, and internal intercostal muscles. By its internal surface with the transversalis fascia, which separates it from the peritoneum, with the psoas magnus, and with the lower part of the rectus and pyramidalis. The spermatic cord and oblique ingui- nal hernia pass beneath the lower border, but have no direct relation with it. To dissect the rectus muscle, its sheath should be opened by a ver- tical incision extending from over the cartilages of the lower ribs to the front of the os pubis. The sheath may then be dissected olf and turned to either side; this is easily done excepting at the linese trans- versae, where a close adhesion subsists between the muscle and the ex- ternal boundary of the sheath. The sheath contains the rectus and pjTamidalis muscle. The Rectus muscle arises by a flattened tendon from the crest of the os pubis, and is inserted into the cartilages of the fifth, sixth, and seventh ribs. It is traversed by several tendinous zigzag intersections, called lineae transversae. One of these is usually situated at the run- bilicus, two above that point, and sometimes one below. They are vestiges of the abdominal ribs of reptiles, and very rarely extend completely through the muscle. Relations.—By its external surface with the anterior lamella of the aponeurosis of the internal oblique, below with the aponeurosis of the transversalis, and with the pyramidalis. By its internal surface with the ensiform cartilage, the cartilages of the fifth, sixth, seventh, eighth, and ninth ribs, with the posterior lamella of the internal oblique, the peritoneum, and the epigastric artery and veins. The Pyramidalis muscle arises from the crest of the os pubis in front of the rectus, and is inserted into the linea alba at about midway between the umbilicus and the os pubis. It is enclosed in the same sheath \vith the rectus, and rests against the lower part of that muscle. This.muscle is sometimes wanting. The rectus may now be divided across the middle, and the two ends drawn aside for the purpose of examining the mode of formation of its sheath. The sheath of the rectus is formed, in front, for the upper three- fourths of its extent, by the aponeurosis of the external oblique and the anterior lamella of the internal oblique, and behind by the poste- rior lamella of the internal oblique and the aponeurosis of the trans- versalis. At the commencement of the lower fourth, the posterior