Fig. 53.* 119 LIGAMENTS OF THE VERTEBRAL COLUMN. vessels. The ligament is composed of fibres of vaiious length closely interwoven with each other ; the deeper and shorter crossing the inter- vertebral substance from one vertebra to the next; and the superficial and longer fibres crossing three or four vertebrae. The anterior common ligament is in relation by its posterior or ver- tebral surface, with the intervertebral substance, the bodies of the vertebrae, and with the vessels, principally veins, which separate its central from its lateral portions. By its anterior or visceral surface it is in relation in the neck, with the longus colli muscles, the pharjmx and the oesopha- gus ; in the thoracic region, with the aorta, the venae azygos, and thoracic duct; and in the lumbar region, with the aorta, right renal artery, right lumbar arteries, arteria sacra media, vena cava inferior, left lumbar veins, receptaculum chyli, the commence- ment of the thoracic duct, and the tendons of the lesser muscle of the diaphragm with the fibres of which the ligamentous fibres interlace. The Posterior common ligament lies upon the posterior surface of the bodies of the vertebrae, and extends from the axis to the sacrum. It is broad opposite the inter- vertebral substance, to which it is closely adherent; and narrow and thick over the bodies of the vertebrae, from which it is separated by the veins of the base of each vertebra. It is composed like the ante- rior ligament of shorter and longer fibres which are disposed in a similar manner. The posterior common ligament is in relation by its anterior surface with the interv'ertebral substance, the bodies of the vertebrae, and with the venae basium vertebrarum ; and by its posterior surface with the dura mater of the spinal cord, some loose areolar tissue and nume- rous small veins being interposed. The Intervertebral stthstance is a lenticular disc of fibrous cartilage, interposed between each of the vertebrae from the axis to the sacrum, and retaining them firmly in connexion with each other. It differs in thickness in different parts of the column, and varies in depth at different points of its extent; thus, it is thickest in the lumbar re- gion, deepest in front in the cervical and lumbar regions, and behind * A posterior view of the bodies of three dorsal vertebras, connected by their intervertebrai substance 1, 1. The lamin® (2) have been sawn through near the bodies of the vertebrie, and the arches and processes removed, in order to shew (.1) the posterior common ligament. A part of one of the openings in the posterior surface of the vertebra, for the transmission of the vena basis vertebrie, is seen at 4, by the side of the narrow and unattached portion of the ligament.