72 STERNUM. lunaris), and narrow at its junction with the middle piece. At each superior angle is a deep articidar depression (incisura clavicularis) for the clavicle, and on either side two notches, for the articulation of the cartilage of the first rib, and one half of that of the second. The middle piece or body, considerably longer than the superior, is broad in the middle, and somewhat narrower at each extremity. It presents at either side six articular notches, for the lower half of the second rib, the four next ribs, and the upper half of the seventh. This piece is sometimes perforated by an opening of various magnitude, resulting from arrest of development. The inferior piece (ensiform or xiphoid cartilage) is the smallest of the three, often merely cartilaginous, and very various in appearance, being sometimes pointed, at other times broad and thin, and at other times, again, perforated by a round hole, or bifid. It presents a notch at each side for the articulation of the lower half of the cartilage of the seventh rib. Development. — By a variable number of centres, generally ten, namely, two for the manubrium; one (sometimes two) for the first piece of the body, two for each of the remaining pieces, and one for the ensiform cartilage. Ossification commences towards the end of the fifth month in the manubrium, the two pieces for this part being placed one above the other. At about the same time the centres for the first and second pieces of the body are apparent; the centres for the third piece of the body appear a few months later, and those for the fourth piece soon after birth. The osseous centre for the ensiform cartilage is so variable in its advent, that it may be present at any period between the third and eighteenth year. The double centres for the body of the sternum are disposed side by side in pairs, and it is the irregular union of these pairs in the last three pieces of the body that gives rise to the large aperture occasionally seen in the sternum towards its lower part. Union of the pieces of the stemmn com- mences from below and proceeds upwards ; the fourth and the third unite at about puberty, the third and the second between twenty and twenty-five, and the second and the first between twenty-five and thirty. The ensiform appendix becomes joined to the body of the sternum at forty or fifty years; and the manubrium to the body only in very old age. Two small pisiform pieces have been described by Bedard and Breschet, as being situated upon and somewhat behind each extremity of the incisura semilunaris of the upper border of the manubrium. These pre-sternal or supra-stemal pieces, which are by no means constant, appear at about the thirty-fifth year. Bedard considers them to be the analogue of the fourchette of birds, and Breschet as the sternal ends of a pair of cervdcal ribs. Articulations.—With sLrteen bones; viz. with the clavicles and the seven true ribs, at each side; the latter :udiculating by means of the costal cartilages. Attachment of Muscles.—To nine pairs and one single muscle; viz. to the pectoralis major, sterno-mastoid, sterno-hyoid, stemo-thyroid.