CONSTRUCTION OF NERVES. 404 plexuses. These plexuses are sometimes formed by the trunks of the nerves, as, the cervical, brachial, and lumbar ; and sometimes by the fasciculi, as in the terminal plexuses at the periphery of the body and at the surface of the brain. The nerve-fibres in the spinal cord and central parts of the brain also form a close and plexiform interlacement with each other. In the construction of the larger plexuses there is a free interchange of fasciculi, and in the terminal plexuses a similar interchange of smaller fasciculi and primitive fibres. It is from the terminal plexuses that the nerve-fibres pass off to form their terminal loops. The general mode of termination of nerve-fibres is by loops. There exists, however, an exception to this ride in the instance of the Paci- nian* corpuscles. These corpuscles are minute bodies, about a line in length, of an oval, oblong, or spheroidal shape, and smooth and glistening aspect, connected with the terminal nerve-fibres of the digi- tal branches of the nerves distributed to the hands and feet. As many as two or three hundred are met with in a single hand. They are also found, but less numerously, on the terminal fibres of other sensitive nerves, and on the fibres of the sympathetic plexuses of the mesentery, of the meso-colon, and of the pancreas. They occur singly and in groups of two or three, and are each connected with the nerve by means of a short pedicle which projects into the corpuscle, and forms a conical process in its interior. The Pacinian corpuscle and its pedicle are composed of about fifty thin and membranous tunics, which are closely adherent in the latter, but are separated in the corpuscle by an albuminous fluid, and towards the free end of the corpuscle, the tunics are connected by imperfect septa. The central tunic or capsule is also filled with fluid, and into this fluid the axis cylinder of a pri- mitive nervous fibril, derived from the nerve and continued through the centre of the peduncle, is prolonged. According to Henle and Kollilier, this nervous fibril generally terminates in a small rounded enlargement; at other times it bifurcates and forms two rounded heads, and occasionally escapes from the corpuscle at its free end. Each of ! the tunics of the Pacinian body is composed of fibres which have a j circular disposition on its external surface, and are arranged in a longi- tudinal direction within. It is these fibres which give to the cor- puscle its glistening appearance. Tjie Pacinian corpuscles are first perceptible during the sixth month of foetal life. On certain of the nerves of the body, for example, on the posterior roots of the cranial and spinal nerves, and particularly on the sympa- thetic, are situated enlargements which are termed ganglia. Ganglia are greyish in colour, are invested by a smooth membranous sheath, and are composed of the three essential constituents of the nervous s3'-stem, namely, nerve-cells, nerve-fibres, and nerve-granules. The nerve-cells of ganglia are firm in structure, and have stronger investing * Discovered and described by Pacini in 1831; described more particularly in 1840; and by Henle and Kolliker in 1844.