STYLO-HYOIDEUS.—GENIO-IIYOIDEUS. 185 between the anterior portions of tlie two muscles. This fascia is named the supra-kyoideun. Rdutions.—its supei-ficial surface with the platysma myoides, the steruo-mastoid, the anterior fasciculus of the stylo-hyoid muscle, the parotid gland, and submaxillaiy gland. By its deep surface with the styloid muscles, the hyo-glossus, the m)do-h3^oid muscle, the ex- ternal carotid artery, the lingual and the facial arteries, the internal carotid arterj', the jugular vein, and the hypoglossal nerve. The digastric muscle forms the two inferior boundaries of the submaxillary triangle, the superior boundary being the side of the body of the lower jaw. In the posterior half of the submaxillary triangle are situated the submaxillary gland and the facial arteiy. The Stylo-hyoideus is a small and slender muscle situated in immediate relation with the posterior belly of the digastricus muscle, being pierced by its tendon. It arises from the middle of the styloid process, and is inserted into the body of the os hyoides near the middle line. Relations.—By its superficial surface with the posterior belly of the digastricus, the parotid gland and sub-maxillary gland ; its deep re- lations are similar to those of the posterior belly of the digastricus. The digastricus and stylo-hyoideus must be removed from their con- nection with the lower jaw and os hyoideus, and turned aside in order to see the next muscle. The Mylo-hyoideus {puXti, mola, i. e. attached to the molar ridge of the lower jaw) is a broad and triangular plane of muscular fibres, fonning, with its fellow of the opposite side, the inferior wall or floor of the mouth. It arises from the molar ridge on the lower jaw, and proceeds obliquely inwards to be inserted into the raphe of the two muscles and into the body of the os hyoides; the raphe is sometimes deficient at its anterior part. Relations.—By its superficial or inferior surface, with the platysma myoides, the digastricus, the supra-hyoidean fascia, the submaxillary gland, and the submental artery. By its deep or superior surface with the genio-hyoideus, the genio-hjm-glossus, the hyo-glossus, the stylo- glossus, the gustatory nerve, the hypo-glossal nerve, Wharton’s duct, the sublingual gland, and the mucous membrane of the floor of the mouth. After the mylo-hyoideus has been examined, it should be cut away from its origin and insertion, and completely removed. The view of the next muscles would also be greatly improved by dividing the lower jaw on the near side of the symphysis, and drawing it outwards; or by removing it altogether, if the ramus have been already cut across in dissecting the internal pterygoid muscle. The tongue may then be drawn out of the mouth by means of a hook. The Gemo-hyoideus {yivui>\i, the chin) arises from a small tubercle upon the inner side of the symphj’sis of the lower jaw, and is inserted into the upper part of the body of the os hyoides. It is a short and slender muscle, very closely connected with the border of the following.