RIGHT AURICLE. 537 corresponding auricles, whose auricular appendages are directed for- wards, and slightly overlap the root of the pulmonary artery. The pulmonary artery is the large anterior vessel at the root of the heart; it crosses obliquely the commencement of the aorta. The heart con- sists of two auricles and two ventricles, which are respectively named, from their position, right and left. The right is the venous side of the heart; it receives into its auricle the venous blood from every part of the body, by the superior and inferior cava and coronary vein. From the auricle the blood passes into tlie ventricle, and from the ventricle through the pulmonary artery, to the capillaries of the lungs. From these it is returned as arterial blood to the left auricle ; from the left auricle it passes into the left ventricle; and from the left ventricle is carried through the aorta, to be distributed to every part of the bodj', and again returned to the heart by the veins. This constitutes the course of the adult circulation. The heart is best studied in situ. If, however, it be removed from the body, it should be placed in the position indicated in the above de- scription of its situation. A transverse incision should then be made along the ventricular margin of the right auricle, from the appendix to its right border, and crossed by a perpendicular incision, carried from the side of the superior to the inferior cava. The blood must then be removed. Some fine specimens of white fibrin are frequently found with the coagula; occasionally they are yellow and gelatinous. This appearance deceived the older anatomists, who called these substances “ polypus of the heart;” they are also frequently found in the right ventricle, and sometimes in the left cavities. The Right Auricle is larger than the left, and is divided into a principal cavity or sinus, and an appendix auriculse. The interior of the sinus presents for examination five openings; two valves ; two re- licts of foetal structure; and two peculiarities in the proper structure of the auricle. They may be thus arranged:— The right pulmonary artery, passing beneath the arch and behind the ascending aorta. 15. The left pulmonary artery, crossing in front of the descending aorta. ♦ The remains of the ductus arteriosus, acting as a ligament between the pul- monary artery and arch of the aorta. The arrows mark the course of the venous blood through the right side of the heart. Entering the auricle by the superior and inferior cava, it passes through the auriculo-ventricular opening into the ventricle, and thence through the pulmonary artery to the lungs. 16. The left auricle. 17. The openings of the four pulmonaiy veins. 18. The auriculo- ventricnlar opening. 19. The left ventricle. 20. The mitral valve, attached by its chorda tendinea to two large columna carnea, which project from the walls of the ventricle. 21. The commencement and course of the ascending aorta behind the pulmonary artery, marked by an arrow. The entrance of the vessel is yarded by three semilunar valves. 22. The arch of the aorta. The comparative thickness of the two ventricles is shown in the diagram. The course of the pure blood through the left side of the heart is marked by arrows. The blood is brought from the lungs by the four pulmonary veins into the left auri- cle, and passes through the auriculo-ventricular opening into the left ventricle, whence it is conveyed by the aorta to every part of the body.