63 TEETH.—CLASSIFICATION. ' the inferior a distinct bone of the face. The superior meatus occupies : the superior and posterior part of each fossa; it is situated between the ■ superoir and middle turbinated bones, and has opening into it three foramina, ^*iz. the opening of the posterior ethmoid cells, the opening ^ rof the sphenoid cells, and the spheno-palatine foramen. The middle ! -meatus is the space between the middle and inferior turbinated bones ; !■ ;it also presents three foramina, the opening of the frontal sinuses, of ! -the anterior ethmoid cells, and of the antrum. The largest of the : ;hree passages is the inferior meatus, which is the space between the ; nferior turbinated bone and the floor of the fossa ; in it there are two J ibramina, the termination of the nasal duct, and one opening of the ' : interior palatine canal. The nasal fossae commence upon the face by i large irregular opening, the anterior nares, and terminate posteriorly n the two posterior niires. TEETH. f i Man is provided with two successions of teeth: the first are the «eth of childhood, they are called temporary, deciduous, or milk teeth; - he second continue until old age, and are named permanent. The permanent teeth are thirty-two in number, sixteen in each jaw; ' hey are dinsible into four classes,—incisors, of which there are four I n each jaw, two central and two lateral ; canine, two above and two ' lelow; bicuspid, four above and four below ; and molars, six above .nd six below. The temporary teeth are twenty in number ; eight incisors, four ca- iine,-<yid eight molars. The temporary molars have four tubercles, vrall of the left fossa. 1. The frontal bone. 2. The nasal bone. 3. The crista alii process of the ethmoid. The groove between 1 and 3 is the lateral bound- vy of the foramen caecum. 4. The cribriform plate of the ethmoid. 5. Part i the sphenoidal cells. 6. The basilar portion of the sphenoid bone. Bones , 4, and 5, form the superior boundary of the nasal fossa. 7, 7. The articu- iting surface of the palatine process of the superior maxillaiy bone. The roove between 7, 7, is the lateral half of the incisive canal, and the dark aper- ire in the groove the inferior tennination of the left naso-palatine canal. . Tlie nasal spine. 9. The palatine process of the palate bone. a. The su- erior turbinated bone, marked by gi'ooves and apertures for filaments of the factory nerve, h. The superior meatus, c. A probe passed into the posterior :hmoidal cells, d. llie opening of the sphenoidal cells into the superior leatus. e. The spheno-palatine foramen. /. The middle turbinated bone. ff. The middle meatus, h. A probe passed into the infundibular canal, •iiing from the frontal sinuses and anterior ethmoid cells; the triangular tenure immediately above the letter is the opening of the maxillary sinus. The inferior turbinated bone. ^•, k. The inferior meatus. I, 1. A probe lassed up the na^al duct, shewing the direction of that canal. The anterior : tiers g, k, are placed on the superior maxillary bone, the posterior on the date bone. m. The internal pterygoid plate. n. Its hamular process. The external pteiygoid plate, j). The situation of the opening of the Eusta- : lian tube. q. The posterior palatine foramina, r. The roof of the left orbit. The optic foramen, t. The groove for the last turn of the internal carotid •teiy converted into a foramen by the development of an osseous communica- on between the anterior and middle clinoid processes, v. The sella turcica. Tlio posterior clinoid process.