EXTENSOR OSSIS METACARPI. 243 and is inserted into the olecranon and triangular surface on the upper extremity of the ulna. Relations By its stiperficial surface with a strong tendinous apo- neurosis derived from the triceps. By its deep surface with the elbow joint, orbicular ligament, and slightly with the supinator brevis. Deep Layer. Supinator brevis. Extensor ossis metacarpi pollicis. Extensor primi internodii pollicis. Extensor secundi internodii pollicis, Extensor indicis. Dissection.—The muscles of the superficial layer should be removed. lan order to bring the deep group completely into view. The Supinator brevis cannot be seen in its entire extent, until the radial extensors of the carpus are divided from their origin. It 'imesfrom the external condyle, from the external lateral and orbicular higament, and from the ulna, and winds around the upper part of the rmdius, to be inserted into the upper third of its oblique line. The ^^osterior interosseous artery and nerve are seen perforating the lower L.oorder of this muscle. Relations.—By its superficial surface with the pronator radii teres, impinator longus, extensor carpi radialis longior and brevior, extensor lommunis digitorum, extensor carpi ulnaris, anconeus, the radial arterj' and veins, the musculo-spiral nerve, radial and posterior interosseous len-e. By its deep surface with the elbow joint and its ligaments, the r nterosseous membrane, and the radius. The Extensor ossis metacarpi pollicis is placed immediately • •elow the supinator brevis. It arises from the ulna, interosseous mem- Ir rane and radius, and is inserted, as its name implies, into the base r f the metacarpal bone of the thumb. Its tendon passes through the rroove immediately in front of the styloid process of the radius. Relations.—By its superficial surfaee with the extensor carpi ulnaris. Is vtensor minimi digiti, extensor communis digitorum, fascia of the fore- r.TD, and annular ligament. By its deep surfaee with the ulna, inter- jsseous membrane, radius, tendons of the extensor carpi radialis longior r^id brevior, and supinator longus, and at the wrist with the radial r terj'. By its upper border the edge of the supinator brevis. ’ y its lo^ver border with the extensor secundi and primi internodii. The 1= uscle is crossed by branches of the posterior interosseous artery and forve. ' The Extensor primi internodii pollicis, the smallest of the lusclesin this layer, arises from the interosseous membrane and radius, . id passes through the same groove with the extensor ossis metacarpi, be inserted into the base of the first phalanx of the thumb. Relations.—The same as those of the preceding muscle with the ex-