olO LACHRYMAX^ APl'AKATUS. eyes. These are tlie eyelashes {cilia), important organs of defence to the sensitive suiTace of so delicate an organ as the eye. The Conjunctiva is the mucous membrane of the eye. It covers the whole of its anterior surface, and is then reflected upon the lids so as to form their internal layer. The duplicatures formed between the globe of the eye and the lids are called the superior and inferior palpcr hral sinuses, of which the former is much deeper than the inferior. Where it covers the cornea the conjunctiva is very thin and closely adherent, and no vessels can be traced into it. Upon the sclerotica it is thicker and less adherent, but upon the inner surface of the lids is very closely connected, and exceedingly vascular. It is continuous with the general gastro-pulmonary mucous membrane and sympathises in its affections, as may be observed in various diseases. From the surface of the eye it may be traced through the lachrjTnal ducts into the lachrymal gland ; along the edges of the lids it is continuous with the mucous lining of the Meibomian glands, and at the inner angle of the eye may be followed through the lachrymal canals into the lachry- mal sac, and thence dorvnwards through the nasal duct into the infe- rior meatus of the nose. The Caruncula lachrymalisis the small reddish body whicli occupies the lacus lachrymalis at the inner canthus of the e3’e. In health it presents a bright pink tint; in sickness it loses its colour and becomes pale. It consists of an assemblage of follicles similar to the IMeibomian glands, embedded in a fibro-cartilaginous tissue, and is the source of the whitish secretion which so constantlj’’ forms at the inner angle of the eye. It is covered with minute hairs which are sometimes so long as to be distinctly visible to the naked eye. Immediately to the outer side of the caruncula is a slight duplicature of the conjunctiva, called plica semilunaris, which contains a minute plate of cartilage, and is the rudiment of the third lid of animals, the membrana nictitans of birds. Vessels and nerves.—The palpebrae are supplied internally with arteries from the ophthalmic, and externally from the facial and transverse facial. Their nerves are branches of the fifth and of the facial. LACHRYMAL APPARATUS. The Lachrymal apparatus consists of the lachrymal gland Math its excretory ducts; the puncta lachrymalia, and lachr3'mal canals; the lachrymal sac and nasal duct. The Lachrymal gland is situated at the upper and outer angle of the orbit, and consists of two portions, orbital and palpebral. The crrhital portion, about three quarters of an inch in length, is flattened and oval in shape, and occupies the lachr3mal fossa in the orbital plate of the frontal bone. It is in contact superiorl3’- with the perios- teum, with which it is closely connected 1x3^ its upper and convex surface; by its inferior or concave surface it is in relation with the