MAMMARY GLANDS. f)24 passage of the head of the foetus, the labia are unfolded and completely effaced. Thoi Labia minora, or nymphce, are two smaller folds, situated with- in the labia majora. Superiorly they are divided into two processes, which surround the glans clitoridis, the superior fold forming the praeputium clitoridis, and the inferior its fraenulum. Inferiorly, they diminish gradually in size, and are lost on the sides of the opening of the vagina. The nymphas consist of mucous membrane, covered by a thin cuticular epithelium. They are provided with a number of sebiparous follicles, and contain, in their interior, a layer of erectile tissue. The Clitoris is a small elongated organ situated in front of the ossa pubis, and supported by a suspenspry ligament. It is formed by a small body, which is analogous to the corpus cavemosum of the penis, and, like it, arises from the ramus of the os pubis and ischium on each side, by two crura. The extremity of the clitoris is called its ykms. It is composed of erectile tissue, enclosed in a dense layer of fibrous membrane, and is susceptible of erection. Like the penis, it is pro- vided with two small muscles, the erectores clitoridis. At about an inch behind the clitoris is the eniranee of the vagina, an elliptical opening, marked by a prominent margin. The entrance to the vagina is closed in the virgin by a membrane of a semilunar form, which is stretched across the opening; this is the hymen. Sometimes the membrane forms a complete septum, and gives rise to great incon- venience by preventing the escape of the menstrual effusion. It is then called an imperforate hymen. The hymen must not be considered a necessary accompaniment of virginity, for its existence is verj' xm- certain. When present, it assumes a variety of appearances : it may be a membranous fringe, with a round opening in the centre, or a semilunar fold, leaving an opening in front; or a transverse septum, having an opening both in front aird behind ; or a vertical band with an opening at either side. The rupture of the hymen, or its rudimentary existence, gives rise to the appearance of a fringe of papillae around the opening of the vagina; these are called carunculce myrtifonnes. The triangular smooth surface between the clitoris and the entrance of the vagina, which is bounded on each side by the upper portions of the nymphae, is the vestibule. At the upper angle of the vagina is an elevation formed by the pro- minence of the upper waU of the canal, and analogous to the bulb ; of the urethra of the male ; and immediately in front of this tubercle, { urinarius. MAMMARY GLANDS. i The Mamma are situated in the pectoral region, and are separated ^ from the pectoralis major muscle by a thin layer of superficial fascia, t