CONVERGING FIBRES. 433 Converging fibres.—In addition to the diverging fibres which are tlius shown to constitute both the cerebrum and cerebellum, by their increase and development, another set of fibres are found to exist, which have for their office the association of the symmetrical halves and distant parts of the same hemispheres. These are called from their direction converging fibres, and from their office commissures. The commissures of the cerebrum and cerebellum are the— Corpus callosum. Fornix, Septum lucidum. Anterior commissure. Middle commissure. Posterior commissure, Peduncles of the pineal gland, Pons Varolii. The Corpus callosum is the commissure of the hemispheres. It is therefore of moderate thickness in the middle, where its fibres pass directly from one hemisphere to the other ; thicker in front (genu), where the anterior lobes are connected ; and thickest behind (sple- nium), where the fibres from the posterior lobes are assembled. The fibres which curve backwards into the posterior lobes from the sple- nium of the corpus callosum have been termed forceps, those which pass directly outwards into the middle lobes from the same point, tapetum, and those which curve forwards and inwards from the genu to the anterior lobes, forceps anterior. The Fornix is an antero-posterior commissure, and serves to connect a number of parts. Below, it is associated with the thalami optici; on each side, by means of the corpora fimbriata, with the middle lobes of the brain; and, above, with the corpus callosum, and consequently with the hemispheres. The Upturn lucidum is a perpendicular commissure between the fornix and corpus callosum. The Anterior commissure traverses the corpus striatum, and con- nects the anterior and middle lobes of opposite hemispheres. The Middle commissure is a layer of grey substance, uniting the thalami optici. The Posterior commissure is a white rounded cord, connecting the thalami optici. ®ie Peduncles of the pineal gland must also be regarded as com- missures, assisted in their function by the grey substance of the gland. The Pons Varolii is the commissure to the two hemispheres of the cerebellum. It consists of transverse fibres, which are split into two layers by the passage of the fasciculi of the corpora pyramidalia and corpora olivaria. These two layers, the superior and inferior, are collected together on each side, in the formation of the crura cerebelli. F F