LIGAiMENTS OF THE TRUNK. 117 of an inch in diameter ; when isolated they are globular in form, but are hexagonal or polyhedral when compressed. They are per- fectly transparent, the cell-membrane being structureless and their nucleus disappearing as they attain their full size. Synovial Membrane is a thin membranous layer, which invests the articular cartilages of the bones, and is thence reflected upon the surfaces of the ligaments which surround and enter into the composi- tion of a joint. It resembles the serous membranes in being a shut sac, and secretes a transparent and viscous fluid, which is named sjmovia. Synovia is an alkaline secretion, containing albumen, which is coagulable at a boiling temperature. The continuation of this mem- brane over the surface of the articular cartilage, a much agitated question, has been decided by the interesting discoveries of Henle, who has ascertained the existence of an epithelium upon cartilage identical ^vith that produced by the reflected portion of the membrane. In some of the joints the synovial membrane is pressed into the articular cavity by a cushion of fat: this mass was called by Havers the synovial gland, from an incorrect supposition that it was the source of the synovia ; it is found in the hip and in the knee-joint. In the knee-joint, moreover, the synovial membrane forms folds, which are most improperly named ligaments, as the mucous and alar liga- ments, the two latter being an appendage to the cushion of fat. Besides the synovial membranes entering into the composition of joints, there are numerous smaller sacs of a similar kind interposed between surfaces which move upon each other so as to cause friction; they are often associated with the articulations. These are the bursce mttcoscB; they are shut sacs, analogous in structure to synovial mem- branes, and secreting a similar s}Tiovial fluid. The epithelium of synovial membranes is of the kind termed tesselated; it is developed in the same manner with the epithelium of other free surfaces, and is continually reproduced from beneath, while the superficial layers are being rubbed off and lost. articulations. The joints may be arranged, according to a natural division, into— those of the trunk, those of the upper extremity, and those of the lower extremity. Ligaments of the Trunk.—The articulations of the trunk are divisible into ten groups, viz.— 1. Of the vertebral column. 2. Of the atlas, with the occipital bone. 3. Of the axis, with the occipital bone. 4. Of the atlas, with the axis. 5. Of the lower jaw.