BASE OF THE SKULL, 57 I the sphenoid. The latter and the lesser wings constitute its posterior I boundary. It supports the anterior lobes of the cerebrum. In the i middle line of this fossa, at its anterior part, is the C7'ista yalli; im- I mediately in front of this process, the foramen ccpxum; and on each I side the cribriform plate, with its foramina, for the transmission of the I filaments of the olfactory and nasal branch of the ophthalmic nerve, i Farther back in the middle line is the processus olivaris, and on the j sides of this process the optic foramina, anterior and middle clinoid processes, and vertical grooves for the internal carotid arteries. The middle fossa of the base, deeper than the preceding, is bounded in front by the lesser wing of the sphenoid; behind, by the petrous portion of the temporal bone; and is divided into two lateral parts by the sella turcica. It is formed by the posterior part of the body, i great ala, and spinous process of the sphenoid, and by the petrous and j squamous portion of the temporal bones. In the centre of this fossa is the sella turcica, which lodges the pituitary gland, bounded in front by the anterior and middle and behind by the posterior clinoid processes. On each side of the sella turcica is the carotid groove for the internal carotid artery, the cavernous plexus of nerves, the cavernous sinus, and the orbital nerves; and a little farther outwards the following foramina, from before backwards :—sphenoidal fissure (fo- ramen lacerum anterius), for the transmission of the third, fourth, three branches of the ophthalmic division of the fifth, and the sixth nerve, and ophthalmic vein ; foramen rotundmn, for the superior maxillary ner\'e; foramen ovale, for the inferior maxillary nerve, arteria menin- gea parva, and nervus petrosus superficialis minor; foramen spinosum, : for the arteria meningea media; foramen lacerum basis cranii, which . gives passage to the internal carotid artery, carotid plexus, and petrosal branch of the Vidian nerve. On the anterior surface of the petrous portion of the temporal bone is a groove, leading to a fissured opening, the hiatus Fallopii, for the petrosal branch of the Vidian nerve; and, immediately beneath this, a smaller foramen, for the nervus petrosus superficialis minor. Towards the apex of the petrous portion is the notch for the fifth nerve, and below it a slight depres- sion for the Gasserian ganglion. Farther outwards is the eminence which marks the position of the perpendicular semicircular canal. 1 Proceeding from the foramen spinosum, are two grooves whicli indicate the course of the trunks of the arteria meningea media. The whole • fossa lodges the middle lobes of the cerebrum. Tlie posterior fossa, larger than the other two, is fonned by the ■ occipital bone, by the petrous and mastoid portion of the temporals, rand by a sm.all part of the sphenoid and parietals. It is bounded in i front by the upper border of the petrous portion and dorsum ephippii, and along its posterior circumference by the groove for the lateral •sinuses; it gives support to the pons Varolii, medulla oblongata, and ' cerebellum. In the centre of this fossa is i\ie foramen mugnum, bound- ted on each side by a rough tubercle, which gives attachment to the 'odontoid ligament, and by the anterior condyloid foramen. In front