160 STRUCTURE OF MUSCLE. the tendon. In other muscles the fibres pass obliquely from the sur- face of a tendinous expansion spread out on one side, to that of another extended on the opposite side, as in the semi-membranosus ; or, they are composed of penniform or bipenniform fasciculi as in the deltoid, and constitute a compound muscle. The nomenclature of the muscles is defective and confused, and is generally derived from some prominent character which each muscle presents ; thus, some are named from their situation, as the tibialis, peroneus ; others from their uses, as the flexors, extensors, adductors, abductors, levators, tensors, &c. Some again from their form, as the trapezius, triangularis, deltoid, &c.; and others from their direction, as the rectus, obliquus, transversalis, &c. Certain muscles have re- ceived names expressive of their attachments, as the stemo-mastoid, sterno-hyoid, &c.; and others, of their divisions, as the biceps, triceps, digastricus, complexus, &c. In the description of a muscle we express its attachment by the words “ origin ” and “ insertion”; the term origin is generally applied to the more fixed or central attachment, or to the point towards which the motion is directed, while inseiiion is assigned to the more movable .. point, or to that most distant from the centre ; but there are many exceptions to this principle, and as many muscles pull equally towards both extremities, the use of such terms must be regarded as purelj’’ arbitrary. In structure, muscle is composed of bundles of fibres of variable size called fasciculi, Avhich are enclosed in an areolar membranous invest- ment or sheath, and the latter is continuous with the areolar frame- work of the fibres. Each fasciculus is composed of a number of smaller bundles, and these of single' fibres, which, from their minute size and independent appearance, have been distinguished b}”^ the name of ulti- ■ mate fibres. The ultimate fibre is found by microscopic investigation J to be itself a fasciculus (ultimate fasciculus), made up of a number of fi ultimate fibrils enclosed in a delicate sheath or myolemma.* Two | kinds of ultimate muscrilar fibre exist in the animal economy; viz., . J that of voluntary or animal life, and that of involuntarj' or organic 1 Hfe. _ I The ultiinate fibre of animal life is known by its size, by its imi- S formity of calibre, and especially by the very beautiful transverse j markings which occur at short and regular distances throughout its ^ whole extent. It also presents other markings or strife, having a longitudinal direction, which indicate the existence of fibrillfe within 1 * In the summer of 1836, while engaged with Dr. Jones Quainin the exami- nation of the animal tissues with a simple dissecting microscope, constructed by Powell, I first saw that the ultimate fibre of muscle was invested by a proper sheath, for which I proposed the term “ Myolemma a term which was adopt- ed by Dr. Quain in the fourth edition of his “ Elements of Anatomy.” We at that time believed that the transverse folding of that sheath gave rise to the ap- pearance of transverse stri®, an opinion which subsequent examinations proved to be incorrect. Mr. Bowman has since employed the tenn “ Sarcolemma,” as synonymous With Myolemma.