215 CREMASTER TRANSVERSALIS. The Cremaster, considered as a distinct muscle, arises from the middle of Poiipart’s ligament, and forms a series of loops upon the spermatic cord. A few of its fibres are inserted into the tunica vaginalis, the rest ascend along the inner side of the cord, to be inserted, with the conjoined tendon, into the pectineal line of the os pubis. Relations.—The internal oblique is in relation by its external surface with the external oblique, latissimus dorsi, spermatic cord, and external abdominal ring. B}' its internal surface with the transversalis muscle, the fascia transversalis, the internal abdominal ring, and spermatic cord. By its loicer and arched border with the spermatic cord. It forms by this border the upper boundary of the spermatic canal. The cremaster is in relation by its external surface with the aponeu- rosis of the external oblique and inter-columnar fascia ; and by its internal surface with the fascia propria of the spermatic cord. The internal oblique muscle is to be removed by separating it from its attachments to the ribs above, and to the crest of the ilium and Poupart’s ligament below. It should be divided behind by a vertical incision extending from the last rib to the crest of the ilium, as its lumbar attachment cannot at present be examined. The muscle is then to be turned forwards. Some degree of care will be required in performing this dissection, from the difficulty of distinguishing between this muscle and the one beneath. A thin layer of areolar tissue is all that separates them for the greater part of their extent. Near the crest of the ilium the circumflexa ilii artery ascends between the two muscles, and forms a valuable guide to their separation. Just above Poupart’s ligament they are so closely connected, that it is impossible I to divide them. The Transversalis is the internal flat muscle of the abdomen; it is transverse in the direction of its fibres, as is implied in its name. It arises from the outer third of Poupart’s ligament, from the internal lip of the crest of the ilimn, its anterior two-thirds ; from the spinous and transverse processes of the lumbar vertebrae, and from the inner surfaces of the six inferior ribs, indigitating with the diaphragm. Its lower fibres curve downwards, to be inserted, with the lower fibres of the internal oblique, into the pectineal line, and form the conjoined tendon. Throughout the rest of its extent it is inserted into the crest of the os pubis and linea alba. The loicer fourth of its aponeurosis superior or internal pillar; the margin below the ring, the inferior or external pillar; the curved intercolumnar fibres are seen proceeding upwards from Pou- part’s ligament to strengthen the ring. The numbers 14 and 15 are situated upon the fascia lata of the thigh ; the opening immediately to the left of 15 is the saphenous opening. 16. The rectus muscle of the right side brought into view by the removal of the anterior segment of its sheath: • the posterior seg- ment of its sheath with the divided edge of the anterior segment. 17. The pyramidalis muscle. 18. The internal oblique muscle. 19. The conjoined tendon of the internal oblique and transversalis descending behind Poupart’s ligament to the pectineal line. 20. The arch formed between the lower curved border of the intonial oblique muscle and Pouparl’s ligament; it is beneath this arch that the spermatic cord and hernia pass.