MUSCLES OF THE BACK. 195 The Longus colli is a long and flat muscle, consisting of two por- tions. The upper arises from the anterior tubercle of the atlas, and is inserted into the transverse processes of the third, fourth, and fifth cer- vical vertebrae. The loieer portion arises from the bodies of the second and third, and transverse processes of the fourth and fifth, and passes down the neck, to be inserted into the bodies of the three lower cervi- cal and three upper dorsal vertebrae. We should thus arrange these attachments in a tabular form ;— Oriffin. Insertion, Upper 1 S 3rd, 4th, and 5th transverse portion. ^ ‘ ^ processes. Lower portion. 2nd and 3rd bodies 4th and 5th transverse processes . 3 lower cervical vertebrae, bo- dies. 3 upper dorsal, bodies. In general terms, the muscle is attached to the bodies and trans- verse processes of the five superior cervical vertebrae above, and to the bodies of the last three cervical and first three dorsal below. Relations.—By its anterior surface with the pharynx, oesophagus, the sheath of the common carotid, internal jugular vein and pneumogastric nerve, the sjunpathetic nerve, inferior laryngeal nerve, and inferior thyroid arter}'. By its posterior surface it rests upon the cervicahand upper dorsal vertebrae. Actions—The rectus anticus major and minor preserve the equi- librium of the head upon the atlas ; and, acting conjointly with the longus colli, flex and rotate the head and the cervical portion of the vertebral column. The scaleni muscles, taking their fixed point from below, jire flexors of the vertebral column ; and, from above, elevators of the ribs, and therefore inspiratory muscles. Eighth Group.— Muscles of the Larynx. These muscles are described with the anatomy of the larynx, in Chapter X. MUSCLES OF THE TRUNK. The muscles of the trunk may be subdivided into four natural . groups; viz. 1. Muscles of the back. 2. Muscles of the thorax. 3. Muscles of the abdomen. 4. Muscles of the perineum. 1. Muscles of the Bark,—The region of the hack, in consequence of its extent, is common to the neck, the upper extremities, and the