321 AXILLARY ARTERY. tween those vessels which it serves to connect ; namely, the arteries of the superior and inferior extremities.” Varieties of the subclavian A rteries.—Varieties in these arteries are rare ; that which most frequently occurs is the origin of the right subclavian, from the left extremity of the arch of the aorta, below the left subclavian artery. The vessel, in this case, curves behind the (esophagus and right carotid artery, and sometimes between the oeso- phagus and trachea, to the upper border of the first rib on the right side of the chest, where it assumes its ordinary course. In a case* of subclavian aneurism on the right side, above the clavicle, which happened during the summer of 1839, Mr. Liston proceeded to per- form the operation of tying the carotid and subclavian arteries at their point of division from the innominata. Upon reaching the spot where the bifurcation should have existed, he found that there was no sub- clavian artery. With the admirable self-possession which distinguishes this eminent surgeon in all cases of emergency, he continued his dis- ■ section more deeply, towards the vertebral column, and succeeded in ■securing the artery. It was ascertained after death, that the arteria : innominata was extremely short, and that the subclavian was given oft" ■ within the chest from the posterior aspect of its trunk, and pursued a deep course to the upper margin of the first rib. In a preparation which was shewm to me in Heidelberg some years since by Professor Tiedemann, the right subclavian artery arose from the thoracic aorta, : as low down as the fourth dorsal vertebra, and ascended from that point to the border of the first rib. Varieties in the branches of the subclavian are not unfrequent ; the most interesting is the origin of ■ the left vertebral from the arch of the aorta, of which I possess several preparations. AXILLARY ARTERY. The axillary artery forms a gentle curve through the middle of the axillary space from the lower border of the first rib to the lower border :of the latissimus dorsi, where it becomes the brachial. Relations.—After emerging from beneath the margin of the costo- loracoid membrane, it is in relation with the axillary vein, which lies .'It first to the inner side, and then in front of the artery. Near the ; niddle of the axilla it is embraced by the two heads of the median i ierve, and is covered in by the pectoral muscles. Upon the inner or ' horacic side it is in relation, first, with the first intercostal muscle ; : t next rests upon the first serration of the serratus magnus ; and is : .hen separated from the chest by the brachial plexus of nerves. By ; ts outer or humeral side it is at first separated fr'om the brachial : lexus by a triangular interval of areolar tissue ; it next rests against : he tendon of the subscapularis muscle ; and thirdly, upon the coraco- nrachialis muscle. * This case is recorded in the Lancet, vol. i. 1839-40, pp. 37 and 419.