.504 RETINA. STR tICTURE. The Retina is composed of three laj'ers :— External, or Jacob’s membrane, Middle, Nervous membrane, Internal, Vascular membrane. Jaeoh's membrane is extremely thin, and is seen as a mere film when the freshly dissected eye is suspended in water. Examined by the microscope, it is found to be composed of cells having a tesselated arrangement. Dr. Jacob considers it to be a serous mem- brane. The Nervous membrane is the expansion of the optic nerve, and forms a thin semi-transparent bluish-white layer, which envelopes the vitreous humour, and extends forwards to the commencement of the ciliary processes, where it terminates by an abrupt scalloped margin. According to Treviranus, this layer is composed of cylindrical fibres, which proceed from the optic nerve, and, near their termination, bend abruptly inwards, to form the internal papillary layer, which lies in contact with the hyaloid membrane ; each fibre constituting by its ex- tremity a distinct papilla. The Vascular membrane consists of the ramifications of a minute artery, the arteria centralis retime, and its accompanying vein; the artery pierces the optic nerve, and enters the globe of the eye through the porus opticus, in the centre of the lamina cribrosa. This artery may be seen very distinctly by making a transverse section of the eyeball. Its branches are continued anteriorly into the zonula ciliaris. The vascular layer forms distinct sheaths for the nervous papillie, which constitute the inner surface of the retina. In the centre of the posterior part of the globe of the eye the retina presents a circular spot, which is called the foramen of Soemmering;* it is surrounded by a yellow halo, the limbus luteus, and is frequently obscured by an elliptical fold of the retina, which has been regarded as a normal condition of the membrane. The term foramen is misap- plied to this spot, for the vascular layer and the membrana Jacobi are continued across it; the nervous substance alone appearing to be defi- cient. It exists only in animals having the axes of the eyeballs pa- rallel with each other, as man, quadrumana, and some saurian reptiles, and is said to give passage to a small lymphatic vessel. The Zonula ciliaris (zonula of Zinn) 4“ is a thin vascular layer, which connects the anterior margin of the retina with the anterior surface of the lens near its circumference. It presents upon its sur- face a number of small folds corresponding with the ciliary processes, * Samuel Thomas Soemmering is celebrated for the beautiful and accurate plates which accompany his works. The account “De Foramine Centrali Re- tinae Humanae, Limbo Luteo cincto,” was published in 1779, in the Commeti- tationes Soc. Meg. Scient. Gottingensis. t John Gottfried Zinn, professor of Anatomy in Gottingen ; his “ Descriptio Anatomica Oculi Humani,” was published in 1755; with excellent plates. It was republished by Wrisberg in 1780.