BASE OF THE BRAIN. 42G Commencement of the transverse fissure, Optic commissure, Tuber cinereum, Infundibulum, Corpora albicantia. Locus perforatus. Crura cerebri. Pons Varolii, Crura cerebelli. Medulla oblongata. The Longitudinal fissure is the space separating the two hemi- spheres : it is continued downwards to the base of the brain, and divides the two anterior lobes. In this fissure the anterior cerebral arteries ascend towards the corpus callosum ; and, if the two lobes be slightly drawn asunder, the anterior border (genu) of the corpus cal- losum will be seen descending to the base of the brain. Arrived at the base of the brain, the corpus callosum terminates by a concave border, which is prolonged to the commissure of the optic nerves by a thin layer of grey substance, the lamina cinerea. The lamina cinerea is the anterior part of the inferior boundary of the third ventricle. On each side of the lamina cinerea the corpus callosum is continued into the substantia perforata and crura cerebri, and upon tbe latter forms a narrow medullary band lying externally to, and slightly over- lapping the optic tract, the medulla innominata. Upon the under surface of each anterior lobe, on either side of the longitudinal fissure, is the olfactory nerve, with its bulb. The Fissure of Sylvius bounds the anterior lobe posteriorly, and separates it from the middle lobe; it lodges the middle cerebral artery. If this fissure be followed outwards, a small isolated cluster of five or six convolutions will be observed ; these constitute the island of Reil. The island of Reil, together with the substantia perforata, form the base of the corpus striatum. The Substantia perforata is a triangular plane of white substance, situated at the inner extremity of the fissure of S3’’lvius. It is named perforata from being pierced by a number of openings for small arte- ries, which enter the brain in this situation to supply the grey sub- stance of the corpus striatum. Passing backwards on each side beneath the edge of the middle lobe, is the commencement of the great transverse fissure, which ex- tends beneath the hemisphere of one side to the same point on the opposite side. A probe passed into this fissure between the crus cerebri and middle lobe would enter the middle cornu of the lateral ventricle. The Optic commissure is situated on the middle line; it is the point of communication between the two optic nerves. The Tuber cinereum is an eminence of grey substance situated im- mediately behind the optic commissure, and in front of the corpora