1 156 tarso-metataksal articulations. its fibres being continued onwards to the bases of the third and fourth metatarsal bones. This ligament forms the inferior boundary of a canal in the cuboid bone, through which the tendon of the peroneus longus passes to its insertion into the base of the metatarsal bone of the great toe. The short calcaneo-cuhoid, or ligarmntum hreve plantce, is situated nearer to the bones than the long plantar ligament, from which latter it is separated by adipose tissue; it is broad and extensive, and ties the under surfaces of the os calcis and cuboid bone firmly to- gether. The interosseous ligaments are five in number ; they are short and strong ligamentous fibres situated between adjoining bones, and firmlj' attached to their rough surfaces. One of these, the calcaneo-astraga- loid, is lodged in the groove between the upper surface of the os calcis and the lower of the astragalus. It is large and very strong, consists of vertical and oblique fibres, and serves to unite the os calcis and astra- galus solidly together. The second interosseous ligament, also very strong, is situated between the sides of the scaphoid and cuboid bone; while the three remaining interosseous ligaments connect strongly together the three cuneiform bones and the cuboid. The synovial membranes of the tarsus are four in number: one, for the posterior calcaneo-astragaloid articulation ; a second, for the anterior calcaneo-astragaloid and astragalo-scaphoid articulation. Oc- casionally an additional small synovial membrane is found in the anterior calcaneo-astragaloid joint; a third, for the calcaneo-cuboid articulation ; and a fourth, the large tarsal synovial membrane for the articulations between the scaphoid and three cuneiform bones, the cuneiform bones with each other, the external cuneiform bone with the cuboid, and the two external cuneiform bones with the bases of the second and third metatarsal bones. The prolongation which reaches the metatarsal bones passes forwards between the internal and middle cuneiform bones. A small synovial membrane is sometimes met with between the contiguous surfaces of the scaphoid and cuboid bone. Actions.—The movements permitted by the articulation between the astragalus and os calcis, are a slight degree of gliding, in the direc- tions forivards and baclczvards, and laterally from side to side. The movements of the second range of tarsal bones are very trifling, being greater between the scaphoid and three cuneiform bones than in the other articulations. The movements occurring between the first and second range are the most considerable : they are adduction and abduc- tion, and, in a minor degree, feodon, which increases the arch of the foot, and eodension, which flattens the arch. 6. Tarso-metatarsal Articulation.—The ligaments of this articula- tion are, Dorsal, Plantar, Interosseous.