-MOTORES OCULORUM. PATHETICI. 441 After a short course within the orbit the optic nerve pierces the sclero- tic and choroid coats and expands into the nervous membrane of the eyeball, the retina. Near the globe, the nerve is pierced by a small artery, the arteria centralis retinm, which runs through the central axis of the nerve and reaches the internal surface of the retina, to which it distributes branches. The commissure rests upon the processus olivaris of the sphenoid bone ; it is bounded by the lamina cinerea of the corpus callosum in front, by the substantia perforata on each side, and by the tuber cinereum behind. Within the commissure the innermost fibres of the optic nerves cross each other to pass to opposite eyes, while the outer fibres continue their course uninterruptedly to the eye of the corre- sponding side. The neurilemma of the commissure, as well as that of the nerves, is formed by the pia mater. Third pair. Motores Oculorum.—The motor oculi, a nerve of moderate size, arises from the inner side of the crus cerebri, close to the pons Varolii, and passes forward between the posterior cerebral and superior cerebellar artery. It pierces the dura mater immediately in front of the posterior clinoid process ; descends obliquely along the ex- ternal wall of the cavernous sinus; and divides into two branches which enter the orbit between the two heads of the external rectus muscle. The superior branch ascends, and supplies the superior rectus and le- vator palpebrae. The inferior sends a branch beneath the optic nerve to the internal rectus, another to the inferior rectus, and a long branch to the inferior oblique muscle. From the latter a short thick branch is given off to the ciliary ganglion, forming its inferior root. The fibres of origin of this nerve may be traced into the grey sub- stance of the crus cerebri,* into the motor tract,+ and as far as the superior fibres of the crus cerebri. J In the cavernous sinus it receives one or two filaments from the cavernous plexus, and one from the ophthalmic nerve. Fourth pair. Pathetici (trochlearis).—The fourth is the smallest cerebral nerve; it ai’ises from the valve of Vieussens close to the testis, and winding around the crus cerebri to the extremity of the petrous portion of the temporal bone, pierces the dura mater near the oval opening for the fifth nerve, and passes along the outer wall of the cavernous sinus to the sphenoidal fissure. In its course through the sinus it is situated at first below the motor oculi, but afterwards ascends and becomes the highest of the nerves which enter the orbit through the sphenoidal fissure. Upon entering the orbit the nerve crosses the levator palpebrae muscle near its origin, and is distributed upon the orbital surface of the superior oblique or trochlearis muscle ; hence its synonym trochlearis. Branches,—While in the cavernous sinus the fourth nerve gives off Mayo. t SoUy. t Grainger.