633 THYMUS GLAND. in too small proportion to be submitted to chemical analysis. But the thymic fluid of the foetal calf, which exists in great abundance, gave the following analytical* results: one hundred parts of the fluid con- tained sixteen parts of solid matter, which consisted of. Incipient fibrine. Albumen, Mucus, and muco-extractive matter. Muriate and phosphate of potass. Phosphate of soda. Phosphoric acid, a trace. According to the researches of Mr. Simont and Oesterlen the thymus is composed of polygonal and mutually flattened membranous cells, measuring from half a line to two lines in diameter and arranged in conical masses around a central cavity. Each cell is surrounded by a capillary plexus and connected to neighbouring cells by areolar tissue intermingled with elastic fibres. The corpuscles found in the fluid of the thymus are dotted nuclei measuring -ggVo diameter; and are subject to conversion into nucleated cells and fat-cells. The Arteries of the thjunus gland are derived from the internal mammary, and from the superior and inferior thyroid. The Veins terminate in the left vena innominata, and some small branches in the thyroid veins. The Nerves are very minute, and are derived chiefly, through the internal mammary plexus, from the superior thoracic ganglion of the sympathetic. Sir Astley Cooper has also seen a branch from the junction of the pneumogastric and sympathetic pass to the side of the gland. The Li/mpliatics terminate in the general union of the lymphatic vessels at the junction of the internal jugular and subclavian veins. Sir Astley Cooper has injected them only once in the human foetus, but in the calf he finds two large lymphatic ducts, which commence in the upper extremities of the glands, and pass downwards, to terminate at the junction of the jugular and subclavian vein at each side. These vessels he considers to be the “ absorbent diicts of the glands; ‘ thymic ducts;' they are the carriers of the fluid from the thjTuus into the veins.” Sir Astley Cooper concludes his anatomical description of this gland with the follo\ving observations:— “As the thymus secretes all the parts of the blood, viz. albumen, fibrine, and particles, is it not probable that the gland is designed to prepare a fluid well fitted for the foetal growth and nourishment from the blood of the mother, before the birth of the foetus, and, conse- quently, before chyle is formed from food ?—and this process continues * This analysis was conducted by Dr. Dowler of Richmond. 1' “ A Physiological Essay on the Thymus Gland,” 4to. 1845.