GLUTEAL NERVE. 479 The Branches of the sacral plexus are divisible into internal and ex- ternal; they may be thus arranged :— The Visceral nerves are three or four large branches which are de- rived from the fourth and fifth sacral nerves: they ascend upon the side of the rectum and bladder; in the female upon the side of the rectum, the vagina, the uterus, and the bladder; and interlace with the branches of the hypogastric plexus, sending in their course numerous filaments to the pelvic viscera. The MusciUar branches given off within the pelvis are one or two twigs to the levator ani; an obturator branch, which curves around the spine of the ischium to reach the internal surface of the obturator intemus muscle; a coccygeal branch; and an hmmorrhoidal nerve, which passes through the two ischiatic openings and descends to the termination of the rectum to supply the sphincter and the integument around the anus. The iMuscular branches supplied by the sacral plexus externally to the pelvis are, a branch to the pyriformis; a branch to the gemellus superior; and a branch of moderate size, which descends between the gemelli muscles and the ischium, and is distributed to the gemellus inferior, the quadratus femoris, and the capsule of the hip-joint. The Gluteal nerve (superior gluteal) is a branch of the lumbo- sacral ; it passes out of the pelvis with the gluteal artery, through the . great sacro-ischiatic foramen, and divides into a superior and an infe- : rior branch. The superior branch follows the direction of the superior cun'ed line of the ilium, accompanying the deep superior branch of ; the gluteal artery, and sending filaments to the gluteus medius and ; minimus. The inferior passes obliquely downwards and forwards [■' between the gluteus medius and minimus, distributing numerous fila- 1 ments to both, and terminates in the tensor vaginae femoris muscle. The Internal pudic nerve arises from the lower part of the - sacral plexus, passes out of the pelvis through the great sacro-ischiatic If foramen below the pyriformis muscle, and takes the course of the I internal pudic arterj% While situated beneath the obturator fascia I it lies below that vessel and divides into a superior and an inferior I branch. I The Superior nerve (dorsalis penis) ascends along the posterior I surface of the ramus of the ischium, pierces the deep perineal fascia L .ind accompanies the arteria dorsalis penis to the glans, to which it is Internal. Visceral, IMuscular. External. Muscular, Gluteal, Internal pudic. Lesser ischiatic. Greater ischiatic.