STRUCTURE OF THE CORNEA. 500 The Cornea (comeus, horny) is the transparent projecting laj’er that constitutes the anterior fifth of the glohe of the eye. In its form it is circular, concavo-convex, and resemhles a watch-glass. It is received by its edge, which is sharp and thin, within the bevelled border of the sclerotic, to which it is very firmly attached, and it is somewhat thicker than the anterior portion of that tunic. When examined from the exterior, its vertical diameter is seen to be about one-sixteenth shorter than the transverse, in consequence of the overlapping above and below, of the margin of the sclerotica ; on the interior, however, its outline is perfectly circular. The cornea is composed of four layers : namely, of the conjunctiva; of the cornea proper, which consists of several thin lamellae connected together by an extremely fine areolar tissue ; of the cornea elastica, a “fine, elastic, and exquisitely transparent membrane, exactly ap- plied to the inner surface of the cornea proper,” and of the lining membrane of the anterior chamber of the eyeball. The cornea elastica is remarkable for its perfect transparency, even when submitted for many days to the action of water or alcohol ; while the cornea proper is rendered opaque by the same immersion. To expose this mem- brane, Dr. Jacob suggests that the eye should be placed in water for six or eight days, and, then, that all the opaque cornea should be removed layer after layer. Another character of the cornea elastica is its great elasticity, which causes it to roll up when divided or tom, in the same manner as the capsule of the lens. The use of this layer, according to Dr. Jacob, is to “ preserve the requisite permanent correct curvature of the flaccid cornea proper.” The opacity of the cornea, produced by pressure on the globe, re- sults from the infiltration of fluid into the areolar tissue connecting its layers. This appearance cannot be produced in a sound living eye. Dissection The sclerotic and cornea are now to be dissected away from the second tunic; this, with care, may be easily performed, the only connections subsisting between them being at the circumference of the iris, the entrance of the optic nerve, and the perforation of the ciliary nerves and arteries. Pinch up a fold of the sclerotic near its anterior circumference, and make a small opening into it, then raise the edge of the tunic, and with a pair of fine scissors, having a probe point, divide the entire circiunference of the sclerotic, and cut it away bit by bit. Then separate it from its attachment around the circum- ference of the iris by a gentle pressure with the edge of the knife. The dissection of the eye must be conducted under water. In the course of this dissection the ciliary nerves and long ciliary arteries will be seen passing forwards between the sclerotic and cho- roid, to be distributed to the iris. Second tunic.—The second tunic of the eyeball is formed b}* the choroid, ciliary ligament, and iris, the ciliary processes being an appen- dage developed from its inner surface.