492 THORACIC GANGLIA. supplies the anterior aspect of the heart, distributing numerous fila- ments witli the left coronary artery, which form the anterior coronary plexus. The Posterior cardiac plexus is formed by numerous branches from the great cardiac plexus, and is situated on the posterior part of the ascending aorta, near its origin. It divides into two sets of branches: one set accompanying the right coronary artery in the auriculo-ventri- cular sulcus; the other set joining the artery on the posterior aspect of the heart. They both together constitute the posterior coronary plexus. The great cardiac plexus likewise gives branches to the auricles of the heart, and others to assist in forming the anterior and jxisterior pulmonary plexuses. THORACIC GANGLIA. The Thoracic ganglia are twelve in number on each side. They are flattened and triangular, or irregular in form, and present the peculiar grey colour and pearly lustre of the other sympathetic ganglia; they rest against the heads of the ribs, and are covered in by the pleura costalis. The first two ganglia and the last are usually the largest. Their branches are, superior, inferior, external, and internal. The superior and inferior are prolongations of the substance of the ganglia rather than branches; the former to communicate with the ganglion above, the latter with that below. The external branches, two or three in number, communicate with both roots of each of the spinal nerves. The internal branches oi the five upper ganglia sxe,ptdmonary to]om. the pulmonar}'' plexuses, oesophageal to the oesophageal plexus, and aortic to the thoracic aorta and its branches; the first thoracic ganglion moreover sends branches to the cardiac plexuses. The branches of the lower ganglia are aortic, and several large cords which unite to form the two splanchnic nerves. The Great splanchnic nerve arises from the sixth dorsal ganglion, and receives branches from the seventh, eighth, ninth, and tenth, which augment it to a nerve of considerable size. It descends in front of the vertebral column, within the posterior mediastinum, pierces the dia- phragm immediately to the outer side of each crus, and terminates in the semilunar ganglion. The Lesser splanchnic nerve {renaV) is formed by filaments from the tenth, eleventh, and sometimes from the twelfth dorsal ganglion. It pierces the diaphragm, and descends to join the renal plexus. The Semilunar ganglion is a large, irregular gangliform body, pierced by numerous openings, and appearing like the aggregation of a number of smaller ganglia, having spaces between them. It is situ- ated by the side of the coeliac axis, and communicates vdth the gan- glion of the opposite side, both above and below that trunk, so as to