ANTERIOR BRACHIAL REGION. 23G gives passage to the dorsalis scapulae artery and veins. quadrangular spaca is bounded on three sides by the three preceding muscles, and on the fourth by the humerus. Through this space pass the poste- rior circumflex artery and veins. Fict. 100.* and circumflex nerve. A few of the deep fibres of the triceps, attached above to the hu- merus and below to the capsule of the elbow-joint, have been named sub-anconPMS; the}^ are analogous to the sub-crureus. Relations.—By its posterior sur- face with the deep and superficial fascia and integument. B\' its an- terior surface with the superior pro- funda artery, musculo-spiral nerve, humerus, intermuscular aponeuro- ses which separate it from the bra- chialis anticus, and with the elbow- joint. The scapular head is in relation posteriorly with the deltoid and teres minor; anteriorly with the subscapularis, teres major, and latissimus dorsi ; and externally with the posterior circumflex vessels and nerve. Actions.—The triceps is an ex- tensor of the fore-arm. Antenor Brachial Region. Superficial layer. Pronator radii teres. Flexor carpi radialis, Palmaris longus. Flexor sublimis digitorum. Flexor carpi ulnaris. * Superficial layer of muscles of the fore-ann. 1. The lower part of the biceps, with its tendon. 2. A part of the brachialis anticus, seen beneath the biceps. 3. A part of the triceps. 4. The pronator radii teres. 5. The flexor carpi radialis. 6. The palmaris longus. 7. One of the fasciculi of the flexor sublimis digitorum; the rest of the muscle is seen beneath the tendons of the palmaris longus and flexor carpi radialis. 8. The fle.xor carpi ulnaris. .P. The palmar fascia. 10. The palmaris brevis muscle. 11. The abductor pollicis muscle. 12. One poi’tion of the flexor brevis pollicis; the leading line crosses apart of the adductor pollicis. 13. The supinator longus muscle. 14. The extensor ossis metacarpi, and extensor primi intemodii pollicis, curving around the lower border of the fore-arm. - a.-..