220 MUSCLES OF THE ABDOMEN. portions of the muscle; the right being the larger and more rounded, and the left smaller and lengthened in its form. Between the sides of the ensiform cartilage and the cartilages of the adjoining ribs, is a small triangular space where the muscular fibres of the diaphragm are deficient. This space is closed only by peritoneum on the side of the abdomen, and by pleura within the chest. It is therefore a weak point, and a portion of the contents of the abdomen might, by violent exertion, be forced through it, producing phrenic, or diaphragmatic hernia. The lesser muscle of the diaphragm takes its origin from the bodies of the lumbar vertebrae by two tendons. The rights larger and longer than the left, arises from the anterior surface of the bodies of the second, third, and fourth vertebrae ; and the left from the side of the second and third. The tendons form two large fleshy bellies (crura), which ascend to be inserted into the central tendon. The inner fasciculi of the two crura cross each other in front of the aorta, and again diverge to surround the oesophagus, so as to present the appear- ance of a figure of eight. The anterior fasciculus of the decussation is formed by the right crus. The openings in the diaphragm are three : one, quadrilateral, in the tendinous centre, at the union of the right and middle leaflets, for the passage of the inferior vena cava ; a muscular opening of an elliptic shape formed by the two crura, for the transmission of the oesophagus and pneumogaslric nerves ; and a third, the aortic, which is formed by a tendinous arch thrown from the tendon of one crus to that of the other, beneath which pass the aorta, the right vena azygos, and the thoracic duct. The great splanchnic nerves pass through openings in the lesser muscle on each side, and the lesser splanchnic nerves be- tween the fibres which arise from the ligamentum arcuatum internum. Relations.—By its superior surface with the pleurae, the pericar- dium, the heart, and the lungs. Bj"^ its inferior surface with the peri- toneum ; on the left with the stomach and spleen ; on the right Avith the convexity of the liver; and behind with the kidneys, the supra- renal capsules, the duodenum, and the solar plexus. By its circum- ference with the ribs and intercostal muscles, and with the vertebral column. Actions.—The external oblique muscle, acting singly, would draw the thorax towards the pelvis, and twist the body to the opposite side. Both muscles, acting together, would flex the thorax directly on the pelvis. The internal oblique of one side draws the chest downwards and outwards: both together bend it directly forwards. Either transversalis muscle, acting singly, will diminish the size of the abdo- men on its own side, and both together will constrict the entire cylinder of the cavity. The recti muscles, assisted by the pyramidales, flex the thorax upon the chest, and, through the medium of the lineae transversse, are enabled to act when their sheath is curved inwards by the action of the transversales. The pyramidales are tensors of the linea alba. The abdominal are expiratory muscles, and the chief agents of