90 ISCHIUM. the anterior and posterior borders ; it is concave and smooth for the anterior two-thirds of its extent, and lodges the iliacus muscle. The posterior third is rough, for articulation with the sacrum, and is divided by a deep groove into two parts ; an anterior or auricular portion^ which is shaped like the pinna, and coated by cartilage in the fresh bone ; and a posterior portion, which is very rough and uneven, for the attachment of interosseous ligaments. The eodernal surface is uneven, partly convex, and partly concave : it is bounded above by the crest; below by a prominent arch, which forms the upper segment of the acetabulum; and before and behind by the anterior and posterior borders. Crossing this surface in an arched direction, from the anterior extremity of the crest, to a notch upon the lower part of the posterior border, is a groove, which lodges the gluteal vessels and nerve, the superior curved line ; and below this, at a short distance, a rough ridge, the inferior curved line. The surface in- cluded between the superior curved line and the crest gives origin to the gluteus medius muscle; that between the curved lines, to the glu- teus minimus ; and the rough interval between the inferior curved bne and the arch of the acetabulum, to one head of the rectus. The posterior sixth of this surface is rough and raised, and gives origin to part of the gluteus maximus. The crest of the ilium is arched and curved in its direction like the italic letter /, being bent inwards at its anterior termination, and out- wards towards the posterior. It is broad for the attachment of three planes of muscles, which are connected with its external and internal borders or lips, and with the intermediate space. The anterior border is marked by two projections, the anterior su- perior spinous process, which is the anterior termination of the crest, and the anterior inferior spinous process; the two processes being se- parated by a notch for the attachment of the sartorius muscle. This border terminates inferiorly in the lip of the acetabulmn. The poste- rior border also presents two projections, the posterior superior and the posterior inferior spinous process, separated by a notch. Inferiorly this border is broad and arched, and forms the upper part of the great sacro-ischiatic notch. The ISCHIUM is divisible into a thick and solid portion, the body, and into a thin and ascending part, the ranvis ; it may be considered also, for convenience of description, as presenting an external and in- ternal surface, and three borders, posterior, inferior, and superior. The external surface is rough and uneven, for the attachment of muscles; and broad and smooth above, where it enters into the forma- tion of the acetabulum. Below the inferior lip of the acetabulum is a notch, which lodges the obturator extemus muscle in its passage outwards to the trochanteric fossa of the femur. The internal surface is smooth, and somewhat encroached upon at its posterior border by the spine. The posterior border of the ischium presents towards its middle a remarkable projection, the S2rine. Immediately above the spine is a