163 STRUCTURE OF MUSCLE. arc constituted by a When the fibrils are A. ‘S 'I* § a § i I a i B B Fig. B i0 — 2 B _ B 5 D highly refractive, while the transparent spaces pair of cells containing a more fluid myoline. collected together so as to form an ulti- mate fibre or fasciculus, the appearance of the cell is altered : those which look dark in the single fibril, that is, the most refractive, being ranged side bj" side, constitute the bright band; while the transparent cells of the single fibril are the sLaded striae of the fibre. When the ultimate fibril is very much stretched, the two highly refrac- tive cells appear each to be double; while the transparent space is evidently composed of four cells. ultimate fibre of organic life [fig. 83, D, e] is a simple homogeneous fila- ment, much smaller than the fibre of animal life, flat, and without transverse markings. Besides these characters, there may generally be seen a dark line or several dark points in its in- terior, and not unfrequently the entire fibre appears enlarged at irregidar distances. These appearances are due to the presence of the unobli- terated nuclei of cells from which the fibre was originally developed. The fibres of organic life are collected into fasciculi of various size and 82.* EB are held together by dark nuclear fibres similar to those which bind the fasciculi of fibrous tissue (p, 115). The development of muscular fibre is eflfected by means of the formation of nucleated cells out of an original blastema, and the con- version of those cells, by a process already described (p. 5) into the tubuli of ultimate fibres, while their contents, by a subsequent de- velopmental action, are transformed into ultimate fibrils. According to this view, the cell membranes constitute the myolemma, and the ♦ structure of the ultimate muscular fibril and fibre of animal life. A. An uitimate muscular fibril in the state of partial contraction. B. A similar fibril in the state of ordinary relaxation. This fibril measured 1 of an inch in diameter. 20000 c. A similar fibril put upon the stretch, and measuring of an inch in diameter. D. Plan of a portion of an ultimate fibre, shewing the manner in which the ■ transverse striae are produced by the coliocation of the fibrils. Nos. 1,1. The pair of highly-refractive cells; they form the dark parts of the single fibrils, but the bright parts of the fibre d. In the stretched fibril c, each ; cell has the appearance of being double. 2, 2. The pair of less refractive cells, ; light in the single fibrils, but forming the shaded stria in d. The transverse t septum between these cells is very conspicuous; and in c two other septa are ' seen to exist, making the number of transparent cells four. In d, the tier of I cells immediately above the dark tier is partially illumined from the obliquity of I the light. By an error on the part of the engraver the boundary lines of the ^ fibril are omitted in a b and c.