458 SPINAL NERVES. The Communications with the pneumogastric and spinal accessory take place through the medium of a plexiform interlacement of branches at the base of the skull, behind the internal jugular vein. The com- munications with the sympathetic nerve are derived from the superior cervical ganglion. The Descendens noni is a long and slender twig, which quits the hypoglossal just as that nerve is about to form its arch around the occipital artery, and descends upon the sheath of the carotid vessels. Just below the middle of the neck it forms a loop with a long branch (communicans noni) from the second and third cerviciil nerves. From the convexity of this loop branches are sent to the stemo-hyoideus, stemo-thyroideus, and both bellies of the omo-hyoideus; sometimes also a twig is given off to the cardiac plexus, and occasionally one to the phrenic nerve. If the descendens noni be traced to its origin, it wUl be found to be formed by a branch from the hypoglossal, and one from the first and second cervical nerves ; occasionally it receives also a filament from the pneumogastric. The Thyro-hyoidean nerve, is a small branch, distributed to the thyro-hyoideus muscle. It is given off from the trunk of the hypo- glossal near the posterior border of the hyo-glossus muscle, and de- scends obliquely over the great cornu of the os hyoides. The Communicating filaments, with the gustatory nerv'e, are several small twigs, which ascend upon the hy^^oglossus muscle near its ante- rior border, and form a kind of plexus with filaments sent down by the gustatory nerve. SPINAL NERVES. There are thirty-one pairs of spinal nerves, each arising by two roots, an anterior or motor root, and a posterior or sensitive root. The anterior roots proceed from a narrow white line, anterior lateral sulcus, on the antero-lateral column of the spinal cord, and gradually approach towards the anterior longitudinal fissure as they descend. The posterior roots, more regular than the anterior, proceed from the posterior lateral sulcus, a narrow grey stria formed by the internal grey substance of the cord. They are larger, and the filaments of origin more numerous than those of the anterior roots. In the inter- vertebral foramina there is a ganglion on each of the posterior roots. The first cervical nerve forms an exception to these characters ; its posterior root is smaller than the anterior ; it often joins in whole or in part with the spinal accessory nerve, and sometimes with the hj^o- glossal : there is frequently no ganglion upon it, and when the ganglion exists, it is often situated within the dura mater, the latter being the usual position of the ganglia of the last two pairs of spinal nerves.