■230 LATERAL THORACIC REGION. Lateral Thoracic Region. Serratus magnus. The Serratus magnus (serratus, indented like the edge of a saw,) arises by fleshy serrations from the nine upper ribs excepting the first, and extends backwards upon the side of the chest, to be inserted into the whole length of the base of the scapula upon its anterior aspect. In structure the muscle is composed of three portions, a superior por- tion formed by two serrations attached to the second rib, and inserted into the inner surface of the superior angle of the scapula, a middle portion composed of the serrations connected with the third and fourth ribs, and inserted into the greater part of the posterior border, and an inferior portion consisting of the last five serrations which indigitate with the obliquus extemus and form a thick muscular fasciculus which is inserted into the scapula near its inferior angle. Relations.—By its superficial surface with the pectoralis major and minor, the subscapularis, and the axillary vessels and nerves. B3' its deep surface with the ribs and intercostal muscles, to which it is con- nected bj’' an extremely loose areolar tissue. Actions.—The serratus magnus is the great external inspirator}" muscle, raising the ribs when the shoulders are fixed, and thereby in- creasing the cavity of the chest. Acting upon the scapula it draws the shoulder forwards, as we see to be the case in diseased lungs, where the chest has become almost fixed from apprehension of the expanding action of the respiratory muscles. Anterior Scapular Region. Subscapularis. The Subscapularis muscle arises from the whole of the under sur- face of the scapula excepting the superior and inferior angle, and ter- minates by a broad and thick tendon, which is inserted into the lesser tuberosity of the humerus. The substance of the muscle is traversed by several intersecting membranous layers from which muscular fibres arise, the intersections being attached to the ridges on the sur&ce of the scapula. Its tendon forms part of the capsule of the joint, glides over a large bursa which separates it from the base of the coracoid process, and is lined by a prolongation of the synovial membrane of the articulation. Relations.—By its anterior surface with the serratus magnus, coraco- brachialis, and axillary vessels and nerves. By its posterior surface with the scapula, the subscapular vessels and nerves, and the shoulder joint. Action.—It rotates the head of the humerus inwards, and is a powerful defence to the joint. When the arm is raised, it draws the humerus downwards.