310 INTERNAL CAROTID ARTERY. are sometimes seen in the cervical portion of the vessel, near the base of the skull; and by the side of the sella turcica it resembles the italic letter s, placed horizontally. Relations,—In consideration of its connections, the artery is divi- sible into a cervical, petrous, cavernous, and cerebral portion. The Cervical portion is in relation posteriorly with the rectus anticus major, sympathetic nerve, pharj-ngeal and laryngeal nerves which cross behind it, and near the carotid foramen with the glosso-pharyn- geal, pneumogastric, and hypoglossal nerves, and partially with the internal jugular vein, hiternally it is in relation with the side of the pharynx, the tonsil, and the ascending pharyngeal artery. Externally with the internal jugular vein, glosso-pharj’ngeal, pneumogastric, and hypo-glossal nerves ; and in front with the stylo-glossus, and stylo- pharyngeus muscle, glosso-pharyngeal nerve, and parotid gland. Plan of the relations of the cervical portion of the internal carotid artery. IniernaXly. Phaiynx, Tonsil, • Ascending pharyn- geal artery. In Front. Parotid gland, Stylo-glossus muscle. Stylo-pharyngeus muscle, jlosso-pharyngeal nerve. Internal Carotid Artery. Externally. Jugular vein, Glosso-pharyngeal, Pneumogastric, Hypoglossal nerve. Behind. Superior cervical ganglion, Pneumogastric nerve, Glosso-pharyngeal nerve, Phai'yngeal nerve, Superior laryngeal nerve, Sympathetic nerve. Rectus anticus major. The Petrous portion is separated from the bony wall of the carotid canal by a lining of dura mater'; it is in relation with the carotid plexus, and is covered in by the Gasserian ganglion. The Cavernous portion is situated in the inner wall of the cavernous sinus, and is in relation by its outer side with the lining membrane of the sinus, the sixth nerve, and the ascending branches of the carotid plexus. The third, fourth, and ophthalmic nerves are placed in the outer wall of the cavernous sinus, and are separated from the artery b}' the lining membrane of the sinus. The Cer^ral portion of the artery is enclosed in a sheath of the arachnoid, and is in relation with the optic nerve. At its point of division it is situated in the fissure of Sylvius.