103 SCAPHOID. cess (sustentaculum tali), which supports the anterior articulating sur- face of the astragalus, and serves as a pulley to the tendon of the flexor longus digitorum. Upon the anterior extremity of the bone is a flat articular surface, surmounted by a rough projection, which affords one of the guides to the surgeon in the perfonnance of Chopart’s operation. The posterior extremity is prominent and convex, and constitutes the posterior U(he- rosity ; it is smooth for the upper half of its extent, where it corre- sponds with a bursa ; and rough below, for the insertion of the tendo Achillis ; the lower part of this surface is bounded by the two inferior tuberosities. Articulations.—With tivo bones : the astragalus and cuboid. In their articulated state a large oblique canal is situated between the astragalus and calcaneus, being formed by the apposition of the two grooves, sulcus tali and sulcus calcanei. This groove is called the sinus tar^, and serves to lodge a strong interosseous ligament which binds the two bones together. Attachment of Muscles.—To nine: by the posterior tuberosity, to the tendo Achillis and plantaris ; by the inferior tuberosities and under surface, to the abductor poUicis, abductor minimi digiti, flexor brevis digitorum and flexor accessorius, and to the plantar fascia ; and by the external surface to the extensor brevis digitorum. The Scaphoid bone may be distinguished by its boat-like figure, concave on one side, and convex with three facets upon the other. It presents for examination an anterior and a posterior surface, a supe- rior and an inferior border, and two extremities, one broad, the other pointed and thick. The anterior surface is convex, and divided into three facets, to articulate with the three cuneiform bones ; the poste- rior is concave, to articulate with the rounded head of the astragalus. The superior border is convex and rough, and the inferior somewhat concave and irregular. The external extremity is broad and rough, and the internal pointed and prominent, so as to fonn a tuberosity. The external extremity sometimes presents a facet of articulation with the cuboid. If the bone be held so that the convex surface with three facets look forwards, and the convex border upwards, the broad extremity will point to the side corresponding Avith the foot to which the bone belongs. Artiadations.—With four bones : astragalus and three cuneiform bones, sometimes also with the cuboid. Attachment of Muscles.—To the tendon of the tibialis posticus. The Internal Cuneiform may be known by its irregular wedge- shape, and by being larger than the two other bones bearing the same name. It presents for examination a convex and a concave sur- face, a long and a short articular border, and a small and a large extremity.