88 PHALANGES. PELVIS. dorsal interosseous ; of the index finger, the extensor carpi radialis longior, flexor carpi radialis, first and second dorsal interosseous, and first palmar interosseous; of the middle finger, four^ the extensor carpi radialis brevior, adductor pollicis, and second and third dorsal in- terosseous ; of the ring-finger, three, the third and fourth dorsal inter- osseous, and second palmar; and of the little finger, four, extensor carpi ulnaiis, adductor minimi digiti, fourth dorsal, and third palmar interosseous. Phalanges.—The phalanges are the bones of the fingers; the}’-are named from their arrangement in rows, and are fourteen in number, three to each finger, and two to the thumb. In conformation they are long bones, divisible into a shaft, and two extremities. The shaft is compressed from before backwards, convex on its posterior surface, and flat with raised edges in fi’ont. The metacarpal extremity, or base, in the first row, is a simple concave articular surface, that in the other two rows a double concavity, separated by a slight ridge. The digital extremities of the first and second row present a pulley-like surface, concave in the middle, and convex on each side. The ungual extremity of the last phalanx is broad, rough, and ex- panded into a semilunar crest. Development.—By two centres; one for the shaft, and one for the base. Ossification commences first in the third phalanges, then in the first, and lastly in the second. The period of commencement corre- sponds with that of the metacarpal bones. The epiphyses of the first row appear during the third or fourth year, those of the second row during the fourth or fifth, and of the last during the sixth or seventh. The phalanges are perfected by the twentieth year. Articulations.—The first row, with the metacarpal bones and second row of phalanges; the second row, with the first and third; and the third, with the second row. Attachment of Muscles.—To the base of the first phalanx of the thumb four muscles, abductor pollicis, flexor brevis pollicis, adductor pollicis, and extensor primi internodii; and to the second phalanx, tico, the flexor longus pollicis, and extensor secundi internodii. To the first phalanx, of the second, third, and fourth fingers, one dorsal and one palmar interosseous; and to the first phalanx of the little finger, the abductor minimi digiti, flexor brevis minimi digiti, and one palmar interosseous. To the second phalanges, the flexor sublimis and exten- sor communis digitorum; and to the last phalanges, the flexor profun- dus and extensor communis digitorum. PELVIS AND LOWER EXTREMITY. The bones of the pelvis are the two ossa innominata, the sacrum, and the coccyx; and of the lower extremity, the femur, patella, tibia and fibula, tarsus, metatarsus, and phalanges.