f STRUCTURE OF THE EPIDERMA. 529 J’ig. 168.* s© I./® termed cell-germs or ci/to-blasts. By endosmosis, these cyto-blasts imbibe serum from the plastic lymph and adjacent tissues, and the outermost layer or pellicle of the cyto-blast becomes gradually distend- ed by the imbibed duid. The cyto-blast has now become a cell, and the solid portion of the cyto-blast, which always remains adherent to some one point of the internal surfoce of the cell-membrane, is the nticleus of the cell. Moreover, within the nucleus one or several nuclei are formed which are tenned nucleoli. By a continuance of the process of imbibition, the cell be- comes more or less spherical ; so that, after a time, every part of the surface of the papillary layer of the derma is coated by a thin and mem- branous stratum, consisting of sphe- rical cells lying closely pressed to- gether, and corresponding with every irregularity which the papillae present. But, as this production of cells is a function constantly in operation, a new layer is formed before the first is completed, and the latter is separated by subsequent formations farther and farther from the surface of the papillary layer. As a consequence of loss of contact with the derma, the vital force is progressively diminished ; the cell becomes subject to the influence of physical laws, and evaporation of its fluid slowly ensues. In con- sequence of this evaporation the cell becomes collapsed and flattened, and assumes an elliptical form ; the latter is by degrees converted into the flat ceU with parallel and contiguous layers, and an included nu- cleolated nucleus ; and lastly, the flattened cell desiccates into a thin membranous scale, in which the nucleus is no longer apparent. My own investigationsf- have shown that, after the original gra- nules of the liquor sanguinis have become aggregated into a granular nucleus, other granules are formed in successive circles, around the circumference of the nucleus, until the entire breadth of the epidermal ■ scale is attained ; that the cell never acquires a greater thickness than that of the original nucleus, and, that the formation of the scale results ■ from the desiccation of the cell, as it is gradually pushed outwards : from the derma towards the surface. Consequently, the cell never : possesses any other than the flattened form ; all its phases of growth • A diagram illustrative of the development of the epiderma, and of epithelia in general, according to the theory of Schwann. 1. A granule or cyto-blast. 2. The cell seen rising on the cyto-blast; the latter is now a nucleus and a nucle- olus may be detected in its interior. 3. The spheroidal cell. 4. The oval cell. . 6. The elliptical cell. 6. The flattened cell; which, by contact of its walls, is , speedily converted into a scale in which the nucleus is lost. 7. A nucleated ‘ scale as seen upon its flat surface. 8. A cluster of such scales, t Diseases of the Skin, 2nd edition, p. 5. M M