551 MUSCLES OF THE LARYNX. this ligament constitutes the upper boundary of the ventricle of the larynx. The inferior thyro-aryte7ioid ligaments, or cim'dee vocales, are thicker than the superior, and like them composed of elastic tissue. Each ligament is attached in front to the receding angle of the thyroid cartilage, and behind to the anterior angle of the base of the arytenoid. The inferior border of the chorda vocalis is continuous with the lateral expansion of the crico-thyroid ligament. The superior border forms the lower boundary of the ventricle of the larynx. The space between the two chordae vocales is the glottis or rima glottidis. 4. The ligaments of the epiglottis are five in number, namely, three glosso-epiglottic, hyo-epiglottic, and thyro-epiglottic. The glosso-epiglottic ligaments (fraena epiglottidis) are three folds of mucous membrane, which connect the anterior surface of the epiglottis with the root of the tongue. The middle of these contains elastic tissue. The hyo-epiglottic ligament is a band of elastic tissue passing between the anterior aspect of the epiglottis near its apex, and the upper margin of the body of the os hyoides. The thyro-epiglottic liga- ment is a long and slender fasciculus of elastic tissue, which embraces the apex of the epiglottis, and is inserted into the receding angle of the thyroid cartilage immediately below the anterior fissure and above the attachment of the chordae vo- cales. Muscles.—The Muscles of the larynx are eight in number: the five larger are the muscles of the chordae vocales and rima glottidis; the three smaller are muscles of the epiglottis. The five muscles of the chordae vocales and rima glottidis are, the— Crico-thyroid, Crico-arytenoideus posticus, Crico-arjrienoideus lateralis, Thyro-arytenoideus, Arytenoideus. The Crico-thyroid muscle arises from the anterior surface of the cri- coid cartilage, and passes obliquely outwards and backwards to be in- * A posterior view of the larynx. 1. The thyroid cartilage, its right ala. 2. One of its ascending cornua. 3. One of the descending cornua. 4, 7. The cricoid cartilage. 5, 5. The arytenoid cartilages. 6. The arytenoideus muscle, consisting of oblique and transverse fasciculi. 7. The crico-arytenoidei postici muscles. 8. The epiglottis.