471 INTERCOSTAL NERVES. (lorsi and sacro-lumbalis, and is distributed to the muscles of the back, its terminal filaments reaching the integument. The musculo-cutuneous branch passes inwards, crossing the semi-spinalis dorsi, to the spinous processes of the dorsal vertebrae, giving off muscular branches in its course ; it then pierces the aponeurosis of origin of the trapezius and latissimus dorsi, and divides into branches which are directed out- wards and are distributed to the integument. The dorsal branch of the first dorsal nerve resembles in its mode of distribution the dorsal branches of the last cervical. The dorsal branches of the last four dorsal nerves pass obliquely downwards and outwards into the substance of the erector spinae in the situation of the inter- space between the sacro-lumbalis and longissimus dorsi. After supply- ing the erector spinae, and communicating freely with each other, they approach the surface along the outer border of the sacro-lumbalis, where they pierce the aponeuroses of the transversalis, internal oblique, ser- ratus posticus inferior, and latissimus dorsi, and divide into internal branches which supply the integument in the lumbar region towards the middle line, and external branches which are distributed to the in- tegument of the lumbar and gluteal region. Intercostal nerves.—The Intercostal nerves receive one or two filaments from the adjoining ganglia of the sympathetic, and pass for- wards in the intercostal space with the intercostal vessels, lying below the veins and artery, and supplying the intercostal muscles in their course. At the termination of the intercostal spaces near the sternum, the nerves pierce the intercostal and pectoral muscles, and incline downwards and outwards to be distributed to the integument of the mamma and front of the chest. Those which are situated between the false ribs pass behind the costal cartilages, and between the trans- versalis and obliquus intemus muscles, and supply the rectus and the integument on the front of the abdomen. The first and last dorsal nerves are exceptions to this distribution. The anterior branch of the first dorsal nerve divides into two branches ; a smaller, which takes its course along the under surface of the first rib to the sternal extremity of the first intercostal space ; and a larger, which crosses obliquely the neck of the first rib, to join the brachial plexus. The last dorsal nerve, next in size to the first, sends a branch of com- munication to the first lumbar nerve, to assist in forming the lumbar plexus. The Branches of each intercostal nerve are, a muscular twig to the intercostal and neighbouring muscles, and a cutaneous branch which is given off at about the middle of the arch of the rib. The first inter- costal nerve has no cutaneous branch. The cutaneous branches of the second and third intercostal nerves are named, from their origin and distribution, intercosto-humeral. The First intercosto-humeral nerve is of large size; it pierces the external intercostal muscle of the second intercostal space, and di-