LYMPHATICS OF THE LOWER EXTREMITY. 391 radial and idnar vessels. In the upper arm there is a chain of small glands, accompanying the brachial artery. The Axillary glands are numerous and of large size. Some are closely adherent to the vessels, others are dispersed in the loose areolar tissue of the axilla, and a small chain may be observed extending along the lower border of the pectoralis major to the mammarj’- gland. Two or three subclavian glands are situated beneath the clavicle, and serve as the medium of commimication between the axillary and deep cervical lymphatic glands. The Superficial lymphatic vessels of the upper extremity commence upon the fingers and take their course along the fore-arm to the bend of the elbow. The greater part reach their destination by passing along the dorsal surface of the fingers, wrist, and fore-arm, and then curving aroimd the borders of the latter ; but some few are met with in the palm of the hand, which take the direction of the median vein. At the bend of the elbow the lymphatics arrange themselves into two groups ; an internal and larger group, which communicates with a gland situated just above the inner condyle, and then accompanies the basilic vein upwards to the axilla to enter the axillary glands ; and a small group which follows the course of the cephalic vein. Several of the vessels of this group cross the biceps muscle at its upper part to enter the axillary glands, while the remainder, two or three in number, ascend with the cephalic vein in the interspace of the deltoid and pec- toralis major ; these latter usually join a small gland in this space, and then cross the pectoralis minor muscle to become continuous with the subclanan lymphatics. Besides the lymphatic vessels of the arm, the axillary glands receive those from the integument of the chest, its anterior, posterior, and Lateral aspect, and the lymphatics of the mammary gland. The Deep lymphatics accompany the vessels of the upper extremity, and communicate occasionally with the superficial lymphatics. They enter the axillary and subclavian glands, and, at the root of the neck, terminate on the left side in the thoracic duct, and on the right side in the ductus lymphaticus dexter. LYMPHATICS OF THE LOWER EXTREMITY. The Superficial lymphatic glands of the lower extremity are those of the groin, the inguinal ; and one or two situated in the superficial fascia of the posterior aspect of the thigh, just above the popliteal region. The Inguinal glands are divisible into two groups; a superior group of small size, situated along the course of Poupart’s ligament, and re- ceiving the lymphatic vessels from the parietes of the abdomen, gluteal region, perineum, and genital organs ; and an inferior group of larger glands clustered around the internal saphenous vein near its