TONGUE.—PAPILL/E. 5-25 Between the muscular fibres is a considerable quantity of adipose sub- stance. The tongue is connected, posteriorly, with the os hyoides by muscu- lar attachment; and to the epiglottis by mucous membrane, which forms the three folds called frcena epiylottidis. On either side it is held in connection with the lower jaw by mucous membrane, and in front a fold of that membrane, which is named frcenum lingua, is formed beneath its under surface. The surface of the tongue is covered by a dense layer analogous to the corium of the skin, which gives support to papillae. A rapM marks the middle line of the organ, and divides it into symmetrical halves. The Papillae of the tongue are the— Pig. 166.* Papillae circumvallatae, Papillae conicae. Papillae fiiiformes. Papillae fungiformes. The Papillae circumvallatae (p. lenticulares) are of large size, and from fifteen to twenty in number. They are situated on the dorsiun of the tongue, near-its root, and form a row on each side, which meets its fellow at the middle line, like the two branches of the letter A. Each papilla resembles a cone, at- tached by its apex to the bottom, of a cup-shaped depression: hence they are also named papillae calyciformes. This cup-shaped cavity forms a kind of fossa around the papilla, whence their name circumvallatae. At the meeting of the two rows of these papillae upon the middle of the root of the tongue, is a deep mucous follicle called/oro/new caecum.. The Papillae conicae and jUiformes cover the whole surface of the tongue in front of the circumvallatae, but are most abundant towards * The tongue with its papillae. 1. The raph6, which in some tongues bifur- cates on the dorsum of the organ, as in the figure. 2, 2. The lobes of the tongue. The rounded eminences on this part of the organ, and near its tip are the papillae fungiformes. The smaller papillae, among which the former are dispersed, are the papillae conicae and fiiiformes. 3. The tip of the tongue. 4, 4. Its sides, on which are seen the lamellated and fringed papillae. 5, 5. The A-shaped row of papillae circumvallatae. 6. The foramen caecum. 7. The mucous glands of the root of the tongue. 8. The epiglottis. 9, 9. The fraena epiglottidis. 10, 10. The greater cornua of the os hyoides.