77 SCAPULA. Fig, 34.* ' dorsum of the bone ; it commences at the posterior border by a smooth ■ triangular surface over which the trapezius glides upon a bursa, and • terminates at the point of the shoulder in the acromion process. The upper border of the spine is rough and I subcutaneous, and gives at- ! tacbment by two projecting lips to the trapezius and del- • toid muscles; the surfaces of the spine enter into the ; formation of the supra and infra-spinous fossae. The nutritious foramina of the scapula are situated in the base of the spine. The acromion is some- what triangular and flat- tened from above down- wards ; it overhangs the glenoid cavity, the upper surface being rough and subcutaneous, the lower smooth and corresponding with the shoulder-joint. Near its extremity, upon the anterior border, is an oval articular surface, for the end of the cla\'icle. The coracoid process is a thick, round, and curved process of bone, arising from the upper part of the neck of the scapula, and overarching the glenoid cavity. It is about two inches in length and very strong ; it gives attachment to several ligaments and muscles. Development. — By six centres; one for the body, one for the • coracoid process, two for the acromion, one for the inferior angle, and one for the posterior border. The ossific centre for the body appears in the infra-spinous fossa at about the same time with the ossification of the vertebrae; for the coracoid process during the first year; the acro- mion process at puberty ; the inferior angle in the fifteenth year; and the posterior border at seventeen or eighteen. Union between the ♦ A posterior view of the scapula. 1. The supra-spinous fossa. 2. The infra-spinous fossa. 3. The superior border. 4. The supra-scapular notch. 6. 'Fhe anterior or axillary border. 6. The head of the scapula and glenoid cavity. 7. The inferior angle. 8. The neck of the scapula; the ridge opposite the number gives origin to the long head of the triceps. 9. The posterior border or base of the scapula. 10. The spine. 11. The triangular smooth sui-- face, over which the tendon of the trapezius glides. 12. The acromion process. 13. One of the nutritious foramina. 14. The coracoid process.