STRUCTURE OF THE NOSE, 49G * The fibro-cartilages of the nose. 1. One of the nasal bones. 2. The fihro- 2. The Muscles are l)rought into view by reflecting the integument r they are the pyramidalis nasi, compressor nasi, dilatator naris, levator labii superioris alaeque nasi, and depressor labii superioris aheque nasi. They have been already described with the muscles of the face. 3. The Bones of the nose are, the nasal, and nasal processes of the superior maxillary. 4. The Fihro-cartilages give form and stability to the outwork of the nose, providing, at the same time, by their elasticity, against injuries. They are five in number, namely, the— Fibro-cartilage of the septum. Two lateral fibro-cartilages, Two alar fibro7cartilages. The Fibro-cartilage of the septum, somewhat triangular in form, divides the nose into its two nostrils. It is connected above with the nasal bones and lateral fibro-cartilages; behind, with the ethmoidal septum and vomer ; and below, with the palate processes of the superior maxillary bones. The alar fibro-cartilages and columna move freely upon the fibro-cartilage of the septum, being but loosely con- nected with it by perichondrium. The Lateral fbro-cartilages are also triangular; they are connected, in front, with the fibro-cartilage of the septum ; above, with the nasal bones ; behind, ■with the nasal processes of the supe- rior maxillary bones; and below wdth the alar fibro-cartilages. Alar fibro-cartilages.—Each of these cartilages is curved in such a manner as to correspond wdth the opening of the nostril, to which it forms a kind of rim. The inner portion is loosely con- nected with the same part of the oppo- site cartilage, so as to form the co- lumna. It is expanded and thickened at the point of the nose to constitute the lobe; and on the side forms a curve corresponding wdth the form of the ala. This curve is prolonged dowm- wards and forwards in the direction of the posterior border of the ala by three or four small fibro-cartilaginous plates, which are appendages of the alar fibro-cartilage. cartilage of the septum. 3. The lateral fibro-cartilage. 4 The alar fibro-car- tilage. 5. The central portions of the alar fibro-cartilages ■which constitute the columna. 6. The appendix of the alar fibro-cartilage. 7. The nostril. Fig. 157.*