168 ORBICULAKIS PALPEBRARUM. ing the orbit and eyelids. It arises from the internal angular process of the frontal bone, from the nasal process of the superior maxillary, and from a short tendon (pmdo oculi) which extends between the nasal process of the superior maxillary bone, and the inner extremities of the tarsal cartilages of the eyelids. The fibres encircle the orbit and e}'^elid8, forming a broad and thin muscular plane, which is inserted into the lower border of the tendo oculi and into the nasal process of the superior maxillary bone. Upon the eyelids the fibres are thin and pale, and possess an involuntary action. The tendo oculi, in ad- dition to its insertion into the nasal process of the superior maxillary bone, sends a process inwards which expands over the lachrymal sac, and is attached to the ridge of the lachrymal bone : this is the reflect- ed aponeurosis of the tendo oculi. Relations.—By its su'perjicial surface it is closely adherent to the integument from which it is separated over the eyelids b}’’ a loose areolar tissue. By its deep surface, it lies in contact above with the upper border of the orbit, with the corrugator supercilii muscle, and with the frontal and supra-orbital vessels and supra-orbital neiwe ; lieloiv, with the lachrymal sac, ivith the origins of the levator labii superioris alaeque nasi, levator labii superioris proprius, zygomaticus major and minor muscles, and malar bone; and externally with the temporal fascia. Upon the e3’^elids it is in relation with the broad tarsal ligament and tarsal cartilages, and by its upper border gives at- tachment to the occipito-frontalis muscle. The Corrugator Supercilii is a small narrow and pointed muscle, situated immediatelj’' above the orbit and beneath the upper segment of the orbicularis palpebrarum muscle. It arises from the inner extremity of the superciliarj'^ ridge, and is inserted into the under surface of the orbicularis palpebrarum at a point corresponding with the middle of the superciliary arch. Relations.—By its superficial surface, with the pyi-amidalis nasi, occipito-frontalis and orbicularis palpebrarum muscle; and by its deep surface, with the supra-orbital vessels and nerve. The Tensor Tarsi (Horner’smuscle) is a thin plane of muscular fibres, about three lines in breadth and six in length. It is best dis- sected by separating the eyelids from the eye, and turning them over the nose without disturbing the tendo oculi; then dissect away the small fold of mucous membrane called plica semilunaris, and some loose areolar tissue under ivhich the muscle is concealed. It arises from the orbital surface of the lachrj^mal bone, and passing across the lachrymal sac divides into two slips, which are inserted into the lachrj'mal canals as far as the puncta. Actions.—The palpebral portion of the orbicularis acts involuntarily in closing the lids, and from the greater curve of the upper lid, upon that principally. The entire muscle acts as a sphincter, drawing at * W. E. Horner, M.D. Professor of Anatomy in the University of Pennsyl- vania. The notice of this muscle is contained in a work published in Philadel- phia in 1827, entitled “ Lessons in Practical Anatomy.”