100 FIBULA. The Imver extremity is flattened from without inwards, and pro- longed downwards beyond the articular surface of the tibia, forming the external malleolus. Its external side presents a rough and tri- angular surface, which is subcutaneous. Upon the internal surface is a smooth triangular facet, to articulate with the astragalus; and a rough depression, for the attachment of the interosseous ligament. The anterior border is thin and sharp; and the posterior^ broad and grooved, for the tendons of the peronei muscles. To place the bone in its proper position, and ascertain to which leg it belongs, let the inferior or flattened extremity be di- rected downwards, and the narrow border of the malleolus forwards; the triangular subcutaneous surface will then point to the side corresponding with the limb of which the bone should form a part. The shaft of the fibula is prismoid, and presents three surfaces; external, in- ternal, and posterior; and three borders. The external surface is the broadest of the three; it commences upon the anterior part of the bone above, and curves around it so as to terminate upon its posterior side below. This surface is completely occu- pied by the two peronei muscles. The internal surface commences on the side of the superior articular surface, and termi- nates below, by narrowing to a ridge, which is continuous with the anterior bor- der of the malleolus. It is marked along its middle by the ititerosseous ridge, which is lost above and below in the inner bor- der of the bone. The posterior surface is twisted like the external, it commences above on the posterior side of the bone, and terminates below on its internal side ; at about the middle of this surface is the nutritious foramen, Avhich is directed down- wards. The internal border commences superior- ly in common with the interosseous ridge, and bifurcates inferiorly into two lines, * The tibia and fibula of the right leg articulated and seen from behind. 1. The articular depression for the external condj’le of the femur. 2. The articular depression for the internal condyle ; the prominence between the two numbers is the spinous process. 3. The fossa and groove for the insertion of the tendon of the semi-membranosus muscle. 4. The popliteal plane, for the support of the popliteus muscle. 6. The popliteal line. G. The nutritious foramen. 7.