577 STRUCTURE OF THE INTESTINAL CANAL. to the sacrum by means of the meso-rectum. It is in relation, above, with the left sacro-iliac symphysis; and, below, with the branches of the internal iliac arterj', and with the sacral plexus of nerves; one or two convolutions of the small intestine are interposed between the front of the rectum and the bladder, in the male; and between the rectum and the uterus with its appendages, in the female. The second portim, about three inches in length, is closely attached to the surface of the sacrum, and covered by peritoneum only in front; it is in re- lation by its lower part with the base of the bladder, vesiculse semi- nales, and prostate gland, and in the female with the vagina. The third portion curves backwards from opposite the prostate gland to terminate at the anus ; it is embraced by the levatores ani, and is about one inch and a half in length. It is separated from the membranous portion of the urethra by a triangular space; in the female this space intervenes between the vagina and the rectum, and constitutes by its base the perineiun. The Anus is situated at a little more than an inch in front of the extremity of the coccyx. The integument aroimd it is covered with hairs, and is thrown into numerous radiated plaits which are obliterated during the passage of faeces. The margin of the anus is provided with an abundance of sebiparous glands, and the epiderma may be seen ter- ; minating by a fringed and scalloped border, at a few lines above the , extremity of the opening. STRUCTURE OF THE INTESTINAL CANAL. The pharynx has three coats; a mucous coat, a fibrous coat derived ■ firom the pharjTigeal fascia, and a muscular layer. The oesophagus has but two coats, the mucous and muscular. The stomach and intestines have three, mitcous and muscular, and an external serous investment, derived from the peritoneum. ^lucous Coat,—The mucous membrane of the mouth invests the Avhole internal surface of that cavity, and is reflected along the parotid, isubmaxillar}', and sublingual ducts, into the corresponding glands. It l terminates anteriorly upon the outer margin of the red border of the lips, and posteriorly is continuous with the mucous lining of the pharynx. I The raucous membrane of the pharynx is continuous with the mucous Llining of the Eustachian tubes, the nares, the mouth, and the larynx. 1 In the oesophagus it is thick, very loosely connected with the muscular c coat, and disposed in longitudinal plicce. In the stomach the mucous rmembrane is thin and vascular at the great extremity, and becomes uhicker and lighter in colour towards the pyloric extremity. It is t formed into plaits or rttga, which are disposed for the most part in a longitudinal direction. The rugae are most numerous towards the r lesser end of the stomach ; while around the cardiac orifice they bassume a radiated arrangement. At the pylorus the mucous mem- p p