242 POSTERIOR BRACHIAL REGION. supinator brevis, tendon of the pronator radii teres, radius, and wrist- joint. By its ulnar border with the extensor communis digitorum. The Extensor communis digitorum arises from the external condyle, and intermuscular fascia; and divides into four tendons, which are inserted into the second and third phalanges of the fingers. At the metacarpo-phalangeal articulation each tendon becomes narrow and thick, and sends a thin fasciculus upon each side of the joint. It then spreads out, and receiving the tendon of the lumbricalis and some tendinous fasciculi from the interossei, forms a broad aponeurosis, which covers the whole of the posterior aspect of the finger. At the first phalangeal joint the aponeurosis divides into three slips. The middle slip is inserted into the base of the second phalanx, and the two lateral portions are continued onwards on each side of the joint, to be inserted into the last. Little oblique tendinous slips connect the tendons of the middle, ring, and little finger as they cross the back of the hand. Relations.—By its superficial surface with the fascia of the fore-arm and back of the hand, and with the posterior annular ligament. By its deep surface with the supinator brevis, extensor ossis metacarpi pollicis, extensor primi internodii, extensor secundi intemodii, extensor indicis, posterior interosseous artery and nerve, Munst-joint, metacarpal bones and interossei muscles, and phalanges. By its radial border with the extensor carpi radialis longior and brevior. By the ul7iar border with the extensor minimi digiti, and extensor carpi idnaris. The Extensor minimi digiti (auricularis) is- an off-set fi-om the extensor communis, with which it is connected by means of a tendi- nous slip. Passing down to the inferior extremity of the ulna it tra- verses a distinct fibrous sheath, and at the metacarpo-phalangeal articu- lation unites with the tendon derived from the common extensor. The common tendon then spreads out into a broad expansion which divides into three slips to be inserted as in the other fingers into the last two phalanges. It is to this muscle that the little finger owes its power of separate extension; and from being called into action when the point of the finger is introduced into the meatus of the ear, for the purpose of removing unpleasant sensations or producing titillatipn, the muscle was called by the old writers “ auricidaris.” The Extensor carpi ulnaris arises from the external condyle and from the upper two-thirds of the border of the ulna. Its tendon passes through the posterior groove in the lower extremity of the ulna, to be insert^ into the base of the metacarpal bone of the little finger. Relations.—By its superficial surface with the fascia of the fore-arm, and posterior annular ligament. By its deep surface with the supi- nator brevis, extensor ossis metacarpi pollicis, extensor secundi inter- nodii, extensor indicis, ulna, and wrist-joint. B}' its radial border it is in relation with the extensor communis digitorum, and extensor minimi digiti, and bj’’ the idnar border w'ith the anconeus. The Anconeus is a small triangular muscle having the appearance of being a continuation of the triceps; it arises from the outer condyle. i