555 TRACHEA. Glands.—The bodies known as the glands of the larynx, namely, the epiglottic and the arytenoid, are very improperly named. The former is a mass of areolo-fibrous and adipose tissue, situated in the triangular space between the front surface of the apex of the epiglottis, the hyo-epiglottidean and the thyro-hyoidean ligament. The latter is the body which forms a prominence in the aryteno-epiglottidean fold of mucous membrane, and has been described among the cartilages as the cuneiform cartilage. Vessels and Nerves.—The Arteries of the larynx are derived from the superior and inferior thyroid. The nerves are the superior laryngeal and recurrent laryngeal; both branches of the pneumogastric. The two nerves communicate with each other freely ; but the superior larvngeal is distributed principally to the mucous membrane at the en- trance of the larynx; the recurrent, to the muscles. THE TRACHEA. The Trachea extends from opposite the fifth cervical vertebra to opposite the third dorsal, where it divides into the two bronchi. The right brwichm, larger than the left, passes otf nearly at right angles to the upper part of the corresponding lung. The left descends ob- liquely^ and passes beneath the arch of the aorta, to reach the left lung. The Trachea is composed of — Fibro-cartilaginous rings. Fibrous membrane, Mucous membrane, Longitudinal elastic fibres. Muscular fibres, Glands. The Fibro-cartilaginous rings are from fifteen to twenty in number, and extend for two-thirds around the cylinder of the trachea. They are deficient at the posterior part, where the tube is completed by fibrous membrane. The last ring has usually a triangular form in front. The rings are connected to each other by a membrane of yellow elastic fibrous tissue, which in the space between the extremities of the cartilages, posteriorly, forms a distinct layer. The Longitudinal elastic fibres are situated immediately beneath the mucous membrane on the posterior part of the trachea, and enclose the entire cylinder of the bronchial tubes to their terminations. The Muscular fibres form a thin layer, extending transversely be- tween the extremities of the cartilages. On the posterior surface they are covered in by an areolo-fibrous lamella, in which are lodged the tracheal glands. These are small flattened ovoid bodies, situated in great number between the fibrous and muscular layers of the mem- branous portion of the trachea, and also between the two layers of elastic fibrous tissue connecting the rings. They pour their secretion upon the mucous membrane.