351 FEMORAL ARTERY. superficial and deep fasciae. The lower two-thirds are covered by the sartoiius muscle. To its outer side the artery is first in relation with the psoas and iliacus, and then with the vastus internus. Behind it rests upon tlie inner border of the psoas muscle ; it is next separated from the pectineus by the femoral vein, profunda vein and artery, and then lies on the adductor longus to its termination ; near the lower border of the adductor longus, it is placed in an aponeurotic canal, formed by an arch of tendinous fibres, thrown from the border of the adductor longus and the border of the opening in the adductor magnus, to the side of the vastus internus. To its inmr side it is in relation at its upper part with the femoral vein, and lower down with the pectineus, adductor longus, and sartorius. The immediate relations of the artery are the femoral vein, and two saphenous nerves. The vein at Poupart’s ligament lies to the inner side of the artery; but lower down gets altogether behind it, and incbnes to its outer side. The short saphenous nerve lies to the outer side, and somewhat upon the sheath for the lower two-thirds of its extent ; and the long saphenous nerve is situated within the sheath, and in front of the artery for the same extent. Plan of the Relatioris of the Femoral Artery. Front. Fascia lata. Saphenous nerves, Sartorius, Arch of the tendinous canal. /nncr Side. ' OvJter Side. Femoral vein. Psoas, Pectineus, Adductor longus, Sartorius. Femoral artery. Iliacus, Vastus internus. Behind. Fgoas muscle. Femoral vein. Adductor longus. ntemus muscles. 11. The adductor magnus. 12. The gracilis. 13. The ten- Ion of the semi-tendinosus. 14. The femoral arterj'. 15. The superficial cir- 1 umflexa ilii artery taking its course along the line of Poupart’s ligament, to the Test of the ilium. 2. The superficial epigastric arteiy. 16. The two external )udic arteries, superficial and deep. 17. The profunda arteiy, giving oft' 18, its I xternal circumflex branch; and lower down the three perforantes. A small lend of the internal circumflex artery (8) is seen behind the inner margin of the ■jraoral, just below the deep external pudic artery. 19. The anastomotica .lagna, descending to the knee, upon whicli it ramifies (6)