386 PULMONARY VEINS. and perfectly straight in its course. It passes horizontally inwards behind the pancreas, and terminates near its greater end by uniting with the superior mesenteric and forming the portal vein. It receives in its course the gastric and pancreatic veins, and near its termination the inferior mesenteric vein. The Gastric veins correspond with the gastric, gastro-epiploic, and vasa brevia arteries, and terminate in the splenic vein. The Vena port.®, formed by the union of the splenic and superior mesenteric vein behind the pancreas, ascends through the right border of the lesser omentum to the transverse fissure of the liver, where it divides into two branches, one for each lateral lobe- In the right border of the lesser omentum it is situated behind and between the hepatic artery and ductus communis choledochus, and is surrounded by the hepatic plexus of nerves and lymphatics. At the transverse fissure each primary branch divides into numerous secondary branches which ramify through the portal canals, and give oif vaginal and inter- lobular veins, and the latter terminate in the lobular venous plexus of the lobules of the liver. The portal vein within the liver receives the venous blood from the capillaries of the hepatic arterj^ PULMONARY VEINS. The pulmonary veins, four in number, return the arterial blood from the lungs to the left auricle of the heart; they differ from the veins in general, in the area of their cylinders being very little larger than that of the corresponding arteries, and in accompanying singly each branch of the pulmonary artery. They commence in the capillaries upon the parietes of the intercellular passages and air-cells, and unite to form a single trunk for each lobe. The vein of the middle lobe of the right lung unites with the superior vein so as to form the two trunks which open into the left auricle. Sometimes they remain separate, and then there are three pulmonary veins on the right side. The right pul- monary veins pass behind the superior vena cava to the left auricle, and the left behind the pulmonary artery; they both pierce the peri- cardium. Within the lung the branches of the pulmonary veins are behind the bronchial tubes, and those of the pulmonary artery in front; but at the root of the lungs the veins are in front, next the arteries, and then the bronchi. There are no valves in the pulmonarj' veins.