611 SI’ONGY URETHRA.—SCROTUM. what less than an inch in length. It is situated between the two layers of the deep perineal fascia, and is surrounded by the fan-like expan- sions of the upper and lower segments of the compressor urethrae mus- cle, which meet at the rapM along its upper and lower surface. It is continuous posteriorly with the prostatic urethra, and anteriorly with the spongj- portion of the canal. Its coverings are, the mucous mem- brane, elastic fibrous layer, compressor urethrae muscle, and a partial sheath from the deep perineal fascia. The Spongy portion forms the rest of the extent of the canal, and is lodged in the corpus spongiosum from its commencement at the deep perineal fascia to the meatus urinarius. It is narrowest in the body, and becomes dilated at either extremity, posteriorly in the bulb, where it is named the bulbous portion, and anteriorly in the glans penis, where it forms the fossa naviculads. The meatus urinarius is the most constricted part of the canal; so that a catheter, which will enter that opening, may be passed freely through the whole extent of a normal urethra. Opening into the bulbous portion are two small ex- cretorj' ducts about three-quarters of an inch in length, Avhich may be traced backwards, between the coats of the urethra and the bulb, to the interval between the two laj^ers of the deep perineal fascia, Avhere they ramify in two small lobulated and somewhat compressed glands, of about the size of peas. These are Cowper’s glands; they are situated immediately beneath the membranous portion of the urethra, and are enclosed by the lower segment of the compressor urethrse muscle, so as to be subject to muscular compression. Upon the whole of the internal surface of the spongy portion of the mrethra, particularly along its upper Avail, are munerous small openings or lacunae, Avhich are the apertures of mucous glands situated in the submucous areolar tissue. The openings of these lacunae are directed forwards, and are liable occasionally to intercept the point of a small catheter in its passage into the bladder. At about an inch and a half from the open- ing of the meatus, one of these lacunae is generally found much larger than the rest, and is named the lacuna magna. In a preparation of this lacuna, made by Sir Astley Cooper, the extremity of the canal presents several large primarj^ ramifications. TESTES. The testes are two small glandular organs suspended from the abdo- men by the spermatic cords, and enclosed in an external tegumentary covering, the scrotum. The Scrotum is distinguished into tAvo lateral halves or hemispheres by a raph6, Avhich is continued anteriorly along the under surface of the penis, and posteriorly along the middle line of the perineum to the anus. Of these tAvo lateral portions the left is somewhat longer than the right, and corresponds with the greater length of the sper- matic cord on the left side.